===PAGE 82===
Board of Health assisted residents and businesses in understanding ever changing guidance and compliance with
those orders. We continued to conducted compliance checks and responded to complaints. As the pandemic
continued our office assisted residents and business in understanding testing, quarantine and necessary
compliance. Because of its size, Nashoba Associated Boards of Health had been able to get limited amounts
of vaccine and has been able to hold several clinics vaccinating eligible residents. Wash hands frequently,
wear a mask, and keep a social distance of six feet rule.
Homes other owly departmen any ripal es an evelop again or noting coming better.
partner towns in our region.
This year we processed applications for septic permit lot tests, permits for new construction, new wells,
repairs or upgrades to septic systems and well permits. The Board continues its vigilance with regard to
septic systems, wells, food service inspections, housing and nuisance complaints and its general mandate to
protect the environment and groundwater of the Commonwealth.
The Board of Health provides numerous other services in cooperation with our Health Agents, the Nashoba
Associated Boards of Health. In addition to our environmental services, nursing services are provided to our
residents. This year, clinics provided our residents with inoculations for Flu.
The Town of Lunenburg participates in the Central Mass. Mosquito Control Project. Mosquito Control
monitors the mosquito population in Lunenburg and advises of any potential diseases such as EEE and West
Nile Virus and sprays frequently to control the population during the warmer times of the year. Residents
who want to have their property sprayed can do so by emailing to: cmmcp@cmmcp.org, calling (508) 393-
3055, completing a request on their webpage at: http://www.cmmcp.org, or calling the Board of Health
office. This service is free of charge to residents.
With our Nashoba Nursing and Hospice partners we provide in-home visits to residents recovering from
illness and hospice care and counseling to those in need of this service.
Please contact our office in the Ritter Building for more information.
Please remember that our Board Members volunteer their time and efforts on behalf of you, the citizens of
Lunenburg. If you have something that you think we can help you with, we are at your service.
Contact the Board of Health office at 582-4146 ext. 430.
81
===PAGE 83===
• We inspected businesses for compliance, upon complaint, in accordance with the ever- changing
guidance from the Governor, Department of Labor Standards and Executive Office of Environmental
Affairs and provided interpretation and education to improve compliance.
• We provided guidance to our existing licensed businesses to help them operate safely during the
pandemic.
• We added additional public health nursing staff and contact tracers to help with contact tracing and
outreach.
• We have provided COVID-19 vaccination clinics, along with our well adult and flu clinics.
• Our VNA continued their home health activities throughout the pandemic adjusting to the requirements
imposed by COVID-19
We look forward to continuing our work with Lunenburg's Board of Health to meet the public health,
environmental and nursing needs of your community as the pandemic continues, including assistance with
the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccine.
Included in highlights of 2021 are the following:
Environmental Health Department
The Nashoba Sanitarian is available in the Ayer office and as Town Halls have re-opened we have returned
to office hours.
Food Service Licensing and Inspections
35
This office licenses, inspects, responds to complaints and conducts follow up on concerns in licensed
operations. Many of the inspection done this year were in response to COVID complaints; also affecting
inspections: some businesses were closed or closed part of the year (schools). As more businesses opened
this office has increased inspections.
Recreational Permitting and Inspections
10
This office licenses, inspects and responds to complaints for recreational camps for children, bathing
beaching and public and semi-pools. We arrange for the sampling of bathing beaches on a weekly basis.
Though COVID-19 restrictions were being reduced, and ultimately lifted in June, many camps didn't
open. Many of the town beaches and public & semi-public pool resumed operation.
Housing & Nuisance Investigation
10
This office inspects dwelling units for compliance with the State Sanitary Code upon compliant and prior to
occupancy. We issue orders to affect corrective actions, re-inspect and initiate legal action if necessary.
Similarly, complaints from residents concerning unsanitary conditions or pollution are investigated.
Title 5 Related Work - On-site Sewage Disposal
Application for soil testing (testing necessary for the design of a sewage disposal system) 45
Tests performed (perc tests and soil evaluation holed witnessed)
Applications for sewage disposal plans filed
120
60
82
===PAGE 84===
Well permit issued
Water Quality/ Well Construction
20
59
(Private wells are regulated by local regulations: construction plans are reviewed, wells sampled and results
reviewed/interpreted)
Rabies Clinics - Animals Immunized
(Due to COVID-19, clinics were limited in 2021)
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice
Nashoba's Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visit and provide skilled services to patients in their home
under physician's orders. These services include assessment of physical, psychological, and nutritional needs.
Skills include teaching/supervision of medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV therapy on a 24-hour basis,
catheter care, case management and referral to other services as needed.
Nashoba's Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities of daily living including
bathing dressing, exercises and meal preparation.
Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, and dietary therapeutic interventions through
assessment, treatment and education.
Their integration of client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at
attaining maximum functional dependence.
Nursing Visits
Home Health Aide Visits
Rehabilitative Therapy Visits
Medical Social Work/Spiritual Care Visits
469
146
534
34
Community Health Nursing
Nashoba's Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health service to it member
communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) 16 Standards of Public Nursing Practice.
Our staff serves as a resource to the community, addressing questions and concerns from the public on a variety
of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice, chronic disease management, safe drug/sharps disposal
etc.) in a variety of ways. This year was very different due to COVID-19. This office provided the following
services for District.
• We conducted contact tracing for our member communities and managed the contact tracing efforts of the
Contact Tracing Collaborative.
• We served as a resource for individuals and businesses interpreting the ever changing information on the
disease and the State's response to the pandemic.
• We instructed individuals who tested positive and those who were close contacts on the processes of Isolation and
Quarantine, providing release letters for those who completed each process.
• We worked with the State laboratory to identify and manage clusters of disease/exposures in the District.
We served as a resource for daycare facilities regarding infections in their facilities and interpreting the ever
changing guidance.
83
===PAGE 85===
from the Department of Public, for your community. Though the daily reporting and investigating work is
not always visible it is vital to protect the public from the spread of disease. In addition to the cases listed
below the nurse investigate suspect and probable cases of communicable diseases to provide education for
individuals and information for the State.
Communicable Disease Number of Cases:
Campylobacteriosis
Cryptosporidiosis
Cyclosporiasis
Group A Streptococcus
Hepatitis C
Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis
Influenza
Legionellosis
Lyme Disease
Novel Coronavirus (SARS, MERS, etc.)
Salmonellosis
Shigellosis
1
1
1
4
7
10
14
1105
2
1
84
===PAGE 86===
A Shift
Kenneth Jones,
Captain/AEMT*
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT
Carl Gamberdella,
FF/Paramedic
Career Firefighterst
B Shift
James Ricei, Captain/EMT
Austin Flagg, FF/Paramedic
Karen Weller, Administrative
Assistant/EMS Coordinator+
Call
Firefighters
Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT
Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT*
David Augusta, EMT
Robert Barrett, FF/Paramedic*
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT
Andrew Bolton, FF/EMT
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT*
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT
Frank Byrne, FF/Paramedic
Michael Byrne, FF/AEMT
Joseph Cardone, EMT
Charles Colburn, FF/AEMT*
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT
Matthew Glenny, FF/EMT
Alan Hyatt, Firefighter
+ Indicates Full Time Staff
*Indicates member of District Technical Rescue Team
85
C Shift
Christos Lekaditis,
Lieutenant/AEMT
Melissa Buchanan, FF/EMT
Olivia Hayes, FF/EMT
J. Gregory Massak,
Lieutenant/EMT
Paul Duquette, Lieutenant/EMT
Ronald Hyatt, FF/EMT
Samuel Johnson, FF/EMT
Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT
Michael Lemoine,
FF/Paramedic
Matthew McAuliffe, Firefighter
Jordan Melendy, EMT
Daniel Motyka, FF/EMT
Stephen Morse, FF/EMT
Timothy O'Connell, FF/EMT
Tyler Pelkey, FF/Paramedic
Charles Sampson, EMT
Jenny Smith, FF/EMT
Stephen Wright, FF/EMT
===PAGE 87===
The COVID-19 Pandemic has continued to affect our community and department, though we have been
fortunate that we have had minimal impacts to our staff. Regardless of the Pandemic's impact, our personnel
do not have the option of "working remote". They continue to be ready to respond no matter the conditions.
My thanks go out to the men and women of the department who continue to persevere though this strange
time in our history.
Medical Technicians pase tul time As now strati Ace an A Coordi For Thest ingenes
with 2-3 Firefighter/Emergency Medical Technicians 24 hours a day, 7 days/week. This coverage is a
combination of Career personnel in conjunction with 96 hours per week of per diem coverage. This coverage
is provided by our Call Firefighter/EMT's staffing the Station at their hourly rate.
Staffing the station with
dual trained Fire/EMS personnel ensures that we are ready to respond to whatever emergency occurs.
Though we have 24-hour coverage in the station, many EMS calls and nearly all fire calls still require
more personnel than are on duty in the station. This means we still rely heavily on the dedication and
commitment of our On Call Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians. Our Call personnel remain
and will remain a vital part of our emergency response for years to come.
A new Call Firefighter/EMT must
many net 340 ve Fire A parats must come a an aditional soon on asdom a rapacie ramin
On average, it takes a new member one and a half to two years to full complete this training.
The department continues to move towards the goal of providing our own Paramedic Level
Ambulance Service. Firefighters Austin Flagg and Carl Gamberdella have obtained their Paramedic
certifications and two more members are enrolled in Paramedic training. Paramedic training is in excess of
2000 hours and requires anywhere from 9-18 months of college level classroom education, clinical time and
field internships to obtain certification. The department continues to train our newly hired staff to this level
and recruit licensed Paramedics to fill Career positions when possible. Our goal is to begin providing
Paramedic level service to the community sometime in 2022.
In 2021, the Fire Prevention Division conducted 521 inspections; this is in addition to multiple fire drills and
public education initiatives. By law, we are required to inspect smoke and carbon monoxide detector
installations when a home is sold. We are also required to inspect all new oil burner and propane gas
installations. Any business holding an on-site liquor license also requires a yearly inspection for fire safety
issues. In addition, all new construction projects must have their plans reviewed for proper fire protection, as
well as ongoing inspections during the construction process. Other Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during
2021 include:
Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953 to assist with Fire Safety
Education in both the schools and with senior citizens. This grant provides funding for both materials and
personnel to bring fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations. Highlights of activity through
this grant include:
• Though the Pandemic still affects our interactions with the schools and the elderly, we continue to
provide services where and when we can. Both fire safety education for primary school age children and
the "Sand for Seniors" Program have been reinstituted.
• Personnel assisted with several community events, such as the Lion's Club Thanksgiving Basket
86
===PAGE 88===
homes for smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. If the resident was lacking detectors, Capt. Ricci is able to
install free detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant. Despite the Pandemic, we modified our
procedures to keep this valuable program operating.
It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent smoke
detectors.
Seven Firefighters from Lunenburg continue to be members of the Fire District 8 Technical Rescue and Dive
Teams. These regional teams respond to high risk and unusual rescue situations, such as Confined Space,
Rescue from Heights,
Building and Trench Collapse, Swift/Floodwater and Underwater Search and
Recovery. In conjunction with these Teams, Lunenburg operates both a Water Rescue Unit and a Collapse/
Trench Rescue Trailer.
Apparatus replacement has reached a plateau for a few years, with two pumpers and the Ladder truck all
under 10 years old.. The oldest pumper, Squad 3 is approaching 14 years old. In 2021, this unit underwent a
mid-life overhaul intended to extend its service life. The overhaul included mechanical work, upgrades to its
warning devices and paint/body repairs. The is unit doubles as our Heavy Rescue unit and responds to motor
vehicle accidents and special rescue situations as well as firefighting duties.
A project to update and replace our firefighting protective clothing (known as turnout gear) was begun this
a maximum service life of 10 years and is often less due to wear and tear. It also has to be cleaned regularly
to protect the wearers from cancer causing materials that are often byproducts of today's synthetic materials
burning. The cost of the equipment, like many other things has steadily risen over several years as well.
This funding will put our personnel in a good set up equipment with a slightly used backup set. This will
allow all of our personnel to remain "in service" if their primary gear has to be cleaned.
Grant funding is also allowing us to replace our 20+ year old forest fire protective clothing. This
equipment is a lighter weight version of the heavier, bulkier structural firefighting gear. State grant funding
will replace this equipment with a dual-purpose type of clothing that it suitable for both brush fires and motor
vehicle/technical rescue situations. An added benefit is this will reduce the wear and tear on the Structural
firefighting clothing.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their
agate head, Boat and omisins or but conting ate
cooperation that occurs in the daily course of town business in invisible to many people, but it is critical to
all operations. Finally, my thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing support of
public safety. Such support allows us to continue providing the high level of service you have come to
expect from us.
Patrick A. Sullivan
Fire Chief
87
===PAGE 89===
Mission Statement:
We, the members of the Lunenburg Police Department, strive to provide the highest quality of police
services to our community members and visitors alike. We believe in Community Policing, and all of the
benefits that are realized from this concept. We will strive to maintain the strong partnerships that have
been developed with our community, and continuously look for ways improve that relationship. We will
strive to deliver police services in a fair and impartial manner, consistent with all applicable laws, while
respecting all individual rights. We will use innovative and modern ideas and techniques to solve crimes,
apprehend criminal offenders, and help resolve quality of life issues.
Values:
• We are committed to ensuring that all of our actions reflect the utmost integrity, and honesty.
• We are committed to respecting individual rights, human dignity, and the values of all members of the
community and members of the Lunenburg Police Department.
• We are a proactive and problem solving agency.
88
===PAGE 90===
Department Personnel:
Administration
Chief Thomas L. Gammel
Lt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau
Public Safety Coordinator Amanda Moore
Patrol Bureau
Day Shift
Sgt. Josh Tocci (k-9- Jerry)
Off. Joshua Mathieu
Off. Jack Wagner
Off. Gage Russell
Desk Officer Lisa Melnicki
Evening Shift
Sgt. Sean Connery
Off. Jonathan Broc
Off. John Morreale
Off. Anthony Cappucci
Off. Nicholas Marino
Night Shift
Sgt. Sean W. Zrate
Off. Kamerin Munroe
Off. Jeffrey Hill
Off. Robert Dacosta
Recruit Off. Mathew Pingitore (Academy)
Split Shift
Sergeant Vacant
Traffic Bureau
Off. Jacob Lachance
Investigative Bureau
Detective Vacant (FY2I)
89
===PAGE 91===
has been over a year since was appointed as the permanent Chiet of Police, and to say the least it has been
challenging tenure so far. 2021 continued to be a challenging year for the Police Department as we
continued to deal with the effects of COVID-19. We were also tasked with navigating the challenges that
we have been mandated in accordance with the passing of "An Act relative to justice, equity, and
accountability in law enforcement in the Commonwealth," commonly referred to the Police Reform Bill.
These events continue to have an effect on our department as it relates to recruiting, retention, and morale.
Although faced with these challenges, the department remains committed to being pro-active, and strives to
make the Community safe for all.
There have been some changes to our department personnel in 2021. Reserve Off. Donald Letarte retired
after 49 years of service to the department and community. Off. Letarte was well known throughout the
town and region. A plumber by trade, but he was definitely considered a "jack of all trades." Off. Letarte
was one of the most dedicated individuals that I have been associated with. Off. Letarte would not hesitate
to volunteer his time, nor would he hesitate coming in at 3:00 AM to cover a prisoner watch. We wish
Donnie the best of luck, good health, and a long and prosperous retirement. Thank you Donnie, job well
done.
Off. Kayla Leger accepted a position with the Massachusetts State Police in May of 2021. We thank Kayla
for her service, and wish her the best of luck with MSP.
We welcomed two new officers to the full time ranks from our reserve ranks. Off. Jeffrey Hill, who is
currently assigned to the overnight patrol shift, and Off. Nicholas Marino, who is currently assigned to the
evening patrol shift.
We have also added a full time officer in accordance with our 10 year hiring plan. Off. Matthew Pingitore
was appointed as a full time officer in December, and is currently attending academy, with an anticipated
graduation in the spring of 2022. Off. Pingitore graduated from Fitchburg State University with a Bachelor
of Science Degree in Criminal Justice. While attending Fitchburg State University Off. Pingitore interned
with the department during his senior year. We look forward to Off. Pingitore completing the academy, and
being assigned to the Patrol Bureau.
As we become fully staffed we anticipate filling our vacant positions. The first and foremost would be
filling a vacant sergeant position that would provide us much needed supervision for the patrol bureau. We
also anticipate filling a vacant detective position, as well as adding an additional School Resource/
Community Outreach Officer.
The department received a grant from the Executive Office of Public Safety and Security through the
Edward J. Bryne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant in the amount of $36, 404 to purchase Body Worn
Cameras (BWC). The BWC's were deployed in June of 2021, and the program is now fully operational.
We would like to thank Lunenburg IT System Administrator Dan Nadareski for the assistance and
guidance during implementation.
90
===PAGE 92===
also provide follow up to cases that do not necessarily meet the crisis level, but the individual(s) still need
treatment and assistance.
2021 Statistical Information:
The overall goal of the Lunenburg Police Department is a reduction of crime, assure quality of life issues are
addressed, and provide a safe community to live, work and visit. The Department evaluates effectiveness, in
part, by statistical information that is generated through the Records Management System.
The following statistical information is to provide some insight into our officers' activity for 2021.
Total calls for service thru December 31, 2021:
26,063
Motor Vehicle stops totals:
Citations Civil (fines):
Citations Warnings:
Citations Criminal Offenses:
MV Arrests:
Arrest Totals:
Arrests Custody:
Arrests Summons:
Protective Custody:
Motor Vehicle Accidents (MVA) totals:
MVA with injury:
MVA without injury:
MVA hit and run:
Domestic Violence Related Incidents totals:
Arrest/Summons:
Restraining Orders (RO):
Mental Health Incidents totals:
Attempted/Threat of Suicide
Firearms Licensing totals:
LTC Class A:
FID:
Over 70 (age) FID/LTC:
Animal Control totals:
Dog Bites:
3,680
122
1474
183
65
407
142
254
11
265
51
180
34
72
22
22
50
23
269
240
8
21
205
3
91
===PAGE 93===
In 2021 there has been a 25% decrease in Group A, Crimes Against Persons, with Aggravated and Simple
Assaults accounting for the majority of the incidents with 32 out of 52 total reported incidents. These
numbers appear to have a direct correlation to the Domestic Violence calls that officers have responded to
in 2021.
In 2021 there has been a 28% decrease in Group A, Crimes Against Property. Although we have
observed a decrease in property crimes, we have observed an increase in Breaking and Entering into
residences and motor vehicles in the last quarter of the year.
Training:
The department continues to participate in annual in-service training. In addition several officers have
attended specialized training in various areas of Law Enforcement. Two areas that the department focused
on 2021 was empathy training, and wellbeing traming for our members. In the spring the department
participated in "Effective Leadership through Emotional Intelligence, Empathetics." In the fall of 2021, Off
J. Mathieu and Off. B: McNamara provided training in "Mental Armor: Resilience and Wellbeing Skills for
First Responders." It is our belief that these types of training events are important for long and rewarding
careers for our members.
Our traffic officer, Off. J. Lachance, has competed the Advanced Crash Investigation course, which
provides the department with a certified Accident Reconstruction Investigator. Off. Lachance has also been
assigned to the CEMLEC Recon Team, which is the Central MA regional accident reconstruction team.
The department conducts annual Use of Force training, which includes de-escalation tactics. In 2021
officers were involved in nine (9) use of force incidents, as compared to 10 in 2020. In each Use of Force
incident de-escalation tactics, including the use of verbal tactics, were first utilized prior to any Use of Force
application. Officers continue to strive to de-escalate confrontations prior to any application of Use of
Force.
Sgt. S. Liate, Off L. Melnicki, and Public Safety Coordinator A. Moore completed training for RADkids,
self- defense program for children. They will be hosting various community based trainings coming up in
the spring of 2022. They are also certified RAD instructors, which is a self-defense program for women.
RAD classes will also be held throughout 2022.
Conclusion:
I would like to thank the citizens of Lunenburg for their continued support. Without collaboration with our
community we would not be successful. We look forward to the New Year and to continue to bring the very
best in policing to our community.
I would also like to thank the women and men of the Lunenburg Police Department for their dedication to
the community and the work that they perform on a daily basis. The personnel of the department play a vital
role in making Lunenburg a great place to live, work and visit for all.
Thank you,
Chick Thomas L Gammal
Chief Thomas L. Gammel
92
===PAGE 94===

===PAGE 95===
PLANNING
94
===PAGE 96===
Below is the FY 2022 Capital Plan being recommended for approval at the Annual Town Meeting:
Priority #
CPC
Priority #
Dept.
2
10
11
13
14
15
CIP#
1 FD21-01
Fire
2 PD16-07
Police
3 DPW17-07
Highway
4 FM17-05
Town Facilities
5 INFRA20-02 Highway
6 PD17-02-B
Police
7 LPS20-01
Schools
8 FM20-03
Town Facilities
9 FM21-02
Town Facilities
10 INFRA21-01 Highway
11 FM21-03
Town Facilities
12 PD20-02
Police
13FM16-05
Town Facilities
14 FM21-08
Town Facilities
15 DPW21-02 Highway
Funding:
Project Name
Turnout Gear
Bulletproof Vests, 29 Officers
6-Wheel Dump, plow & sand/Repl.2005 International
PSB, Chiller Replacement
Flat Hill Culvert Construction
Police Vehicle, Marked Replacement
THES Exterior Envelope Repairs
Ritter, ADA Ramp Construction
Town Hall Repairs- Vertex Year Items 2,3,5,6
Page Street Survey/Design/Permit
Ritter, Envelope Repair Projects in Vertex#6-12
Police Vehicle, Marked Replacement
PSB, Replace Carpet 1st Floor
Marshall Park Masterplan
3/4 Ton Pickup with Plow
Total Capital Plan
Raise & appropriate
Free cash
Unexpended Capital
Premium Reserved for Capital
Special Purpose Stabilization Account
Total Available Funding
Surplus/(Shortfall)
Category
Equipment
Equipment
Vehicles
Facilities
Infrastructure
Vehicle
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Infrastructure
Facilities
Vehicle
Facilities
Facilities
Vehicles
FY2022
Projected
100,000
17,500
211,000
150,000
428,500
66,950
67,000
127,500
69,425
20,000
120,000
66,950
55,000
50,000
48,000
1,597,825
747,718
738,825
111,282
1,597,825
(0)
This fiscal year the Capital Planning Committee is also reviewing the current financial policy on the Capital
Budget and may make a recommendation to the Finance Committee and Select Board to amend the policy.
Capital Planning Committee
Damon McQuaid, Chairman, Member at Large
Tom Alonzo, Vice-Chairman, Select Board Representative
Paula Bertram, Planning Board Representative
Wendy Bertrand, School Committee Representative
David Passios, Finance Committee Representative
95
===PAGE 97===
approximately 18 acres off Holman Street.
Seventeen (17) AN Plans (land division plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law,
but still requiring board endorsement) were approved. One of these land divisions was for the creation of
eight (8) building lots on approximately 23 acres at 360 Flat Hill Road.
Lunenburg has four designated scenic roads; Lancaster Avenue, Flat Hill Road, Northfield Road, and
Leominster Road. Over the past year you may have noticed building lots, such as those mentioned in the
paragraph above, being created on some of these roads. As these are scenic roads, any repair, maintenance,
re-construction, or paving work in the Town's right-of-way cannot involve the cutting or removal of trees or
the tearing down or destruction of stone walls without consent of the Planning Board.
The Town received a Site Eligibility Application for a proposed 40B development off Howard Street and
the board provided its comments to the Town Manager. The Planning Board in conjunction with many
other boards, commissions, Town officials, and private citizens submitted numerous comments outlining the
Town's opposition to the development of 200 apartment units at 400 Howard St. The development of
affordable housing is critical to Lunenburg, however, the site in question has significant flaws that concern
Town officials.
The board received an application for the construction of four 2-unit townhouse buildings at 711
Massachusetts Avenue. Tri Town Landing on Youngs Road concluded construction of its buildings with
the completion of Baker Brook Apartments, a building consisting of 70 senior rental units.
In April 2021, the Economic Development Committee started meeting. The committee's charge is to
provide advice and guidance on the state of the business community in the town and ways that Town
government can support and sustain the local economy. The committee will begin this process by
distributing a survey to the Town's businesses soliciting their input.
An article was presented and passed at May 2021 Annual Town meeting to update the Town's parking
calculations to reflect current contemporary parking needs.
As meetings continued to be held remotely the 2nd and 4th Monday of each month, the board once again
thanks the town residents, business owners and applicants for their cooperation and patience during this
time.
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be
reached at 978-582-4147 extension 5. Various forms are available online at https://lunenburgma.gov/ on the
Planning Board's homepage. The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains the
Protective [Zoning] Bylaws), Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Rules &
Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, and Permitting Guidebook are available online.
Tanner Cole, Chair
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair
Paula Bertram, Clerk
Matthew Brenner, Member
Erik Torgersen, Member
Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director
96
===PAGE 98===
Respectfully submitted,
Brandon Kibbe, Chairman
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard several petitions during calendar year 2021. There were several
applicants seeking special permits and special permits for dimensional variations. The Zoning Board
meetings are held on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month at Town Hall at 7:00 PM or ZOOM as
an alternative on an "as needed" basis.
The Zoning Board consists of the following members: Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, James Besarkarski, Vice-
Chairman, Members: Hans Wentrup, David Blatt, Patrick Callahan and Anthony Nicastro, Associate
member. Lisa Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board.
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows:
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town's Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-
laws.
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town's Protective By-laws.
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General
Laws, as amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or
enforcement action from the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional Planning Agency,
abutting City or Town or other Administrative Official.
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws,
Chapter 40B. The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits submitted to the
Board under Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing. These requests can by law
circumvent local zoning ordinances.
The office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts
Avenue, Lunenburg. Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00
PM Tuesday and Thursday, closed Friday.
If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978-582-4146 X 421
during regular business hours. Zoning Board applications are available in the office and online at
www.Lunenburgonline.gov.
97
===PAGE 99===
EDUCATION
98
===PAGE 100===
and School Department to problem-solve in order to better meet the educational needs of the children of
Throughout the pandemic, the district has remained committed to making progress as outlined in on our
Strategy for Continuous Improvement, which is aligned with our Mission and Vision:
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and
passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship,
and rewarding lives.
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to becoming a leader in education by focusing on its values of
altending to the personal well-being of its students, providing high-quality curricula and student-centered
instruction for deeper learning at all levels, and promoting the development of attributes and skills
necessary for continuous learning for all.
The Strategy is a living document which is reviewed annually and revised as needed. Annually in August,
the District Leadership Team reviews the Strategy, its objectives and action plans. The Strategy objectives
for the next three to four years are:
Transforming Teaching and Learning: To ensure teaching and learning are student-centered and inclusive
by: (1) establishing effective teams of educational leaders to accomplish the essential work for
transforming practice, and (2) hiring and developing excellent educators who are continually learning and
adapting practice to meet the needs of all students.
Cultivating Climate & Culture: To create a culture that values data use and fosters continuous learning in a
climate that is safe, caring, inclusive and reflective of our core values.
Communication & Operations: To improve operational efficiencies, including communication, in order to
increase the organization's capacity to execute the district's mission and vision.
Equity, Access, Achievement & Opportunity for All Students: To ensure all students are provided equal
access to a high-quality education, that is collaborative, interactive, and relevant with an appropriate level
of support and challenge so that they can become well-rounded, resilient, confident, and capable young
adults adequately prepared for future challenges.
In order to cultivate district-wide leadership in key areas identified in the Strategy for Continuous
Improvement, the district continues to create teams to lead our work. Over the last three years we
established and have maintained the Behavioral Health Advisory Council, Professional Development
Committee, and Equity Advisory Council. During the 2020-2021 school-year we strengthened our general
education academic referral process and created a behavioral health referral process. These teams review
student cases referred by staff or administration and determine which academic or social/emotional/
behavioral interventions may be needed. Intervention plans are developed, implemented and reviewed for
impact and progress. In the spring of 2021, K-8 curriculum coordinator positions were created to assist
teachers in a specific content area and serve as teacher leaders in curriculum development, selection of
99
===PAGE 101===
at the T.C. Passios building before school for five days to be rapid tested for COVID. Students could then
sately report to school as long as results were negative. This helped us keep more students in school for in-
person learning
For the 2020-2021 school-year, the district procured online assessment platforms knowing there would be
no available MCAS data. The district began administering these standardized assessments in October 2020
in grades K-5 and has continued to administer these assessments in the 2021-2022 school-year expanding
administration to include grades 6-8. These assessments provide the schools valuable information which
allow us to determine if our students are working on grade-level and develop targeted intervention for
individual and small groups of students who are not working on grade-level. Teachers continue to learn
how to utilize these data to inform classroom instruction.
Lunenburg Public Schools was accepted to participate in several of the Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education's academy programs. We are in the Social Emotional Learning (SEL) Academy,
Literacy Academy, and Selecting High Quality Math Materials Network. We have also sought and been
awarded just shy of $303,000 in competitive grants including, summer school grants, after school grants,
technology grants and school health services grants. These grants allow us to provide critical supports for
students.
Behavioral health support for students was an identified need prior to the pandemic, but now is a more
critical need exacerbated by the pandemic. We developed a structure for tiered supports including piloting a
• Tier 1 social emotional curriculum in all grades (K-12); and hiring additional guidance counselors to support
Tiers 1 and 2, and licensed social workers and adjustment counselors to provide Tier 3 supports and
families. We continued to provide Interface to the community. Interface is a behavioral health referral
service available to all residents of Lunenburg at no cost. In 2021-2022 the district added Care Solace, an
online resource with live 24/7 concierge meant to assist families and individuals in finding local mental
health support. Care Solace is a tool for school staff and families to connect with community-based mental
healthcare resources and providers. The vast database of mental health resources includes vetted local
therapists and programs.
Professional development for staff continues to be a priority as we continually strive for improvement. We
have continued our inter-district collaboration with North Middlesex Regional School District by holding an
annual joint conference each November. The Lunenburg Professional Development Committee will
continue to plan these days with the hope of collaborating with other districts as well.
For the 2020-2021 school-year, the district was able to restore a district-wide director-level curriculum
position which had been cut in 2012. This position is essential to provide supervision of and assistance to
teachers in a review of the curriculum, selection of quality curriculum materials, as well as organizing high
quality PD. Due to COVID-19, the 2020-2021 school-year was reduced from 180 days to 170 days,
therefore, making adjustments to pacing, prioritization, and sequencing of the curriculum necessary. As
MCAS was not administered in Spring 2020 due to school closure, the district procured an online
standardized assessment tool in order to have the necessary data to measure student growth and
performance, and to determine which
100
===PAGE 102===
hroughout the pandemic. Lunenburg has been successtul in keeping our schools open and remaining
focused on improving the ways in which we support our students academically, socially, and emotionally
because of the strong partnership the schools have experienced with parents, extended families, and the
greater community.
Perseverance is the hard work you do after you get tired of doing
the hard work you already did. ~Newt Gingrich
I always conclude my report with the announcement of the Superintendent's Award recipient. The selection
process is always difficult as we have many hard-working, high-performing, community service-oriented
students.
I am delighted to announce Molly Kimball as the recipient of the 2022 Superintendent's Award.
Molly's academic accomplishments include: Academic Achievement in Psychology, Honors Biology, •
Honors English, Latin, Honors Math, and Art. She has been on the Special Honor Roll each year
She has been on the Varsity Hockey Team; having played hockey her entire LHS career, and the Junior
Varsity and Varsity Girls Lacrosse Team.
Molly is the National Honor Society Vice President. In that capacity she oversees the NHS peer tutoring
program at LMHS. She has been a member of Big Sibs Little Sibs, a program that connects our high school
students with elementary school students. Molly is also a volunteer for the Learn to Skate program at
Wallace Civic Center where she teaches young children to skate. In addition to all these accomplishments,
Molly works at Doe Orchards.
When asked for a quote that best describes her she offered this Maya Angelou quote:
"People will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget the way
you made them feel. "
101
===PAGE 103===
Primary Total
3
4
5
Elementary Total
6
7
8
Middle School Total
9
10
11
12
High School Total
Advanced Community
Experience Program
(TCP)
All Schools Total
378
111
109
123
343
127
137
122
386
120
104
125
101
450
7
0
2
0
12
23
0
1564
23
102
378
111
109
123
343
127
137
122
386
122
113
125
113
473
7
1587
===PAGE 104===
upgraded custodial equipment tor disintection, prepared supplies for the teaching environment such as
additional disinfectant spray bottles and microfiber wipers as well as using robust cleaning protocols to add
additional disinfection periods during and after the school day. Additionally the Facilities team provided
COVID-19 assistance with the distribution of masks and kits and testing operations as needed. Indoor air
quality assessment and regular changing of air filters were completed and measures taken to confirm that the
ventilation systems were performing well against the original design.
Security Upgrades
As part of ALICE safety training held on school campuses each school year, modifications were made on the
Primary and Turkey Hill schools' door hardware. This was needed to provide means to lock classroom and
office doors in the event of a lockdown other emergency requiring the locking of doors. Work was provided
by Oak Security.
Fire Alarm Upgrades
Under a State grant for $75,000 the fire alarm devices and main fire alarm panel at the Primary School were
replaced. This allowed for the new smoke and CO2 detectors to be replaced in every classroom, offices,
mechanical and storage rooms and created a more consistent and reliable fire alarm signal. Work was provide
by Norel Fire Services.
Water Testing
After completing 3 years of district-wide water testing for lead and copper in the drinking water at all schools
in June 2020, lead was detected in a number of sources at Turkey Hill and the TC Passios building. The
source of the lead is believed to be solder from joining copper pipes. The teaching staff, parents and students
have been made aware of the need to flush water sources at the start of the school day. A fixture replacement
program was implemented to remove and replace fixtures as required. Follow up testing occurred at all
schools in June 2021. In the continued effort to improve water quality within the schools the Facilities
department has started a State of Massachusetts grant application to replace existing drinking water stations
under the SWIG program or School Water Improvement Grant. If approved the grant will allow up to $3000
per replacement cost per water station.
Energy Savings
As a Green Community Grant participant since 2013, the Town has benefited from various awards allowing
upgraded energy efficient, Energy Star rated appliances at Turkey Hill Elementary at a cost of $15,092. A
LED lighting conversion for Lunenburg Middle/High School was completed in February 2021 with
$2,780.12. A replacement domestic hot water heater for the Primary School was complete by April 2021 with
$9,900 in green community grant funds. The Facilities Department has applied for the next round of grant
funding and will look to continue the effort to reduce cost and environmental impact.
Capital Program
The FY 22 Capital program received funding to begin air conditioning design for Lunenburg Primary School.
The subsequent assessment, preliminary design and cost estimate projected a cost of $232,738.31 to provide
necessary electrical wiring and equipment to provide air conditioning to the school. The assessment and
preliminary design was awarded to DiGiorgio Associates for $10,000.
Respectfully Submitted,
John C. Murphy, Director of Facilities & Grounds
103
===PAGE 105===
"ro
Hill Elementary School. Fiber optic lines were run to each building, and new service came online mid-
January, increasing bandwidth from100Mbps download, 20Mbps upload to 300Mbps download and upload.
In addition to upgrading the connectivity to the schools, the department was fortunate to receive State funding
for several replacement & purchase initiatives:
School Re-Opening COVID Relief Grant $95,000.00
Purchased Chromebooks for Turkey Hill Elementary School
Remote Learning Grant
$55,735.00
Purchased iPads for students in Grades K-2
COVID-19 Prevention Grant
$67,075.00
Additional iPads for Grade K-2 students, teacher laptops and student safety content services
These grants enhanced the remote teaching experience and then supported the full return of all students in
April.
Besides expanding educational needs related COVID, the IT Department maintained the typical response to .
maintain the district's core technology services. Our team continues to learn and grow each year as we
improve our infrastructure and explore innovations in education technology. With additional federal funding
Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief I (ESSER 2) funds, two part time technicians were hired
to assist with the increased daily requests due to additional devices. Then Information Technology Director
announced his resignation from his position with the Town and Schools. The district took advantage of this
opportunity to hire a consultant to fulfill the Director's responsibilities, as well as to audit current practices,
applications and models to measure any areas for growth, improvement and capacity.
Respectfully Submitted,
Michael Cassidy, Business Manager
104
===PAGE 106===
and 3 are in Residential Placements. Our Advanced Community Experience Program (ACE), which serves
students ages 18-22 years old, had 3 students enrolled last year. Additionally, from the March 1, 2021
report, 146 students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg (last
year was 111).
For the 2021 school year, our overall classification is NOT REQUIRING ASSISTANCE OR
INTERVENTION as we are making substantial progress toward targets. Our progress toward improvement
targets is listed at 55% - substantial progress toward targets. The data below is from last school year as the
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education did not issue school, district, or state
accountability determinations in 2021. The above accountability information represents determinations from
2019. See below for the specific information from 2019.
For the 2019 school year, as a district, our overall Accountability and Assistance Level is NOT REQUIRING
ASSISTANCE OR INTERVENTION with the Primary School (Insufficient data), Turkey Hill Elementary
School (Not requiring assistance or intervention), Lunenburg Middle School (Not requiring assistance or
intervention), Lunenburg High School (Not requiring assistance or intervention) and the Advanced
Community Experience Program (Insufficient data). The 2019 Official Accountability Report classifies
"High Needs" students in Lunenburg as "Moderate progress towards targets" in their overall progress toward
improvement targets. Participation rates in MCAS this year were as follows: High Needs = 99%, Econ.
Disadvantaged = 99%, EL and Former EL = 100%, and Students w/disabilities = 100%. This data can be
found at the DESE website:
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?
linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5&
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole Special
Services Department. DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each year.
For our Indicators, the following information is available below and also can be found at: http://
profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000d
Indicator 1 - Graduation Rate. For the 2019-2020 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was
73.4% (was 72.4% last year). Lunenburg's rate was 86.7% (was 82.1% last year) and the overall state rate
was 74.7% (was 73.8% last year) for Students with LEPs.
Indicator 2 - Dropout Rate. For the 2019-2020 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was
1.7% (was 1.7% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was noted as "Suppressed"* (it was 2.3%
last year) and the overall state rate was 2.7% (was 3.3% last year). *Special Education data are suppressed
for enrollment counts fewer than 6.
Indicator 3C - Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS. 2019-20 was a benchmark year so there
is no state target for the Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS in English/Language Arts and in
Mathematics. See below for the specific information from 2019.
For the 2019 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities SS ratings were as follows:
Grade 3 - Reading:
Lunenburg = 488.3 State = 486.4
Grade 3 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 491.2 State = 480.7
105
===PAGE 107===
Grade 7 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 474.6
State = 477.3
Grade 8 - ELA:
Lunenburg = 474.0
State = 477.3
Grade 8 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 478.8
State = 478.2
Grade 10-ELA:
Lunenburg = 484:5
State = 486.2
Grade 10-Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 481.3 State = 483.8
For the 2019 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities SGP ratings were as follows:
Grades 3-8 - ELA:
Lunenburg = 40.0 State = 44.4
Grades 3-8 - Mathematics: Lunenburg = 40.4 State = 45.0
For the 2019 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities CPI rating was as follows:
Grade 10 - Sci/Tech/Eng:
Lunenburg = 85.0 State = 72.5
Indicator 4 - Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs. For Lunenburg, our rate
was 0.4% (last year it was 0.4%). The state rate was.6%. Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant
discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity. In 2020, Lunenburg was not found to
have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6-21 with IEPs. For 2019-2020, the state's rates
are as follows: for Full Inclusion of students = 66.2%, Partial Inclusion = 13.9%, Substantially Separate
Placements = 13.4%, and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 6.5%. In
Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows: Full Inclusion = 72.1%, Partial = 9.6%, Substantially Separate =
11.1% and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 7.2%.
Indicator 6- Educational Environments for Students Aged 3-5 with IEPs. The 2019-2020 state rates
showed the percent of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full
Inclusion early childhood program was 54.8%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was 16.9%, a Substantially
Separate Placement (special education class, separate school, or residential facility) was 17%, and students
not attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT was
11.3%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 25.5%, our Partial Inclusion rate was
17.6%, Substantially Separate rate was 39.2%, and Related Services was 17.6%.
Indicator 7 - Early Childhood Outcomes. Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as part of a 4
year cycle in which they report exit data on children for whom they have collected entry level data; exit may
occur at any time during the subsequent three year period as the children leave the preschool
program. Lunenburg did not have a cohort completion year in 2019-2020.
Indicator 8 - Parent Involvement. This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special
education who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results
for students with IEPs. For 2019-2020 the state target was 89.5%.
Lunenburg's rate was 57.1% and the
state's rate was 60.1% (from information collected in the Spring of 2019).
Indicator 9 & 10 - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special
Education Categories. In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in either
case.
106
===PAGE 108===
dear secondary transition. In all years, the state target for secondary transition Is 100o. This
indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that includes appropriate
measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based upon an age appropriate transition
assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will reasonably enable the student to meet
those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's transition services needs. Lunenburg
was last reviewed in this area in 2017-2018 and was 83.3% in compliance.
Indicator 14 - Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs. This indicator measures the % of
students with IEPs who exited high school during the 2018-2019 school year and self-reported post-school
engagement in education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through
three measurements:
• Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.
• Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high
school.
• Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training
program; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high
school.
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post-
secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2018-2019 school year, state targets for the
three measurements of Post-School Outcomes are Measurement A: 50.2%; Measurement B: 79.6%; and
Measurement C: 87.3%. Lunenburg rates are as follows (from reporting year 2018-19): Measurement A =
50%, Measurement B = 75%, and Measurement C= 75%.
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support group for
parents, teachers and administration. All parents and community members can join the group, which
currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I services and parents of students with disabilities.
Meetings are currently being held quarterly, 6pm, via Zoom. The executive board is made up of Co-
Chairpersons: Matthew and Lindsay Brenner. For more information, go to: https://sites.google.com/a/
lunenburgschools.net/Ips/special-services/pacsal?authuser=0 In addition to the district PACSAL, Lunenburg
also participates in a Regional SEPAC group. Information from this group is on Facebook at "Regional
SEPAC - Central MA"
The Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to meet the varying
needs of our students in the least restrictive environment. We have an experienced, hard working staff that
works together with parents to provide these varied services. Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to
develop challenging and focused educational programs for children. We remain committed to the Lunenburg
Public Schools mission, "The mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the
skills, confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successfu!
careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives." This mission, we feel, was even able to be upheld during the
pandemic. During this time, special education services were still able to be delivered to students and all
DESE recommendations and protocols were put into place and followed in order to meet the needs of IEPs as
best as possible. In addition, the Special Services Office also created a specific parent-centered page called
"Information for Families" that worked to help keep parents as updated as possible on all the current
pandemic concerns related to students with disabilities.
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services/covid-19-information?authuser=0.
107
===PAGE 109===
Teaching & Learning Models and PD Update
Lunenburg Public Schools returned to a full learning model for the 2021-2022 school year. Students are
invested in learning, and teachers are working diligently to evaluate student progress, identify learning gaps,
make adjustments to practice, and provide scaffolds accordingly.
We have implemented structured common planning time for teachers in grade level content areas so that
teachers may unpack and plan for units of study, align to standards, and look at data and student work. Our
district literacy specialist and our math instructional specialist meet with teachers during common planning
time to support curriculum development and help foster student growth. High school department heads
structure department meeting time to facilitate the necessary curriculum work needed to move each
department forward and improve learning for students.
Students in grades K-8 completed the fall and winter Ready diagnostic assessment in both reading and math,
and teachers are participating in data cycles to analyze data, plan for targeted support, and adjust instruction.
Personalized learning platforms through iReady provide differentiated instruction, systematic practice, and
scaffolded feedback in both reading and math.
The Lunenburg Public School District is participating in the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS)
Literacy Academy and Social Emotional Learning Academy through the Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education (DESE). The Literacy Academy provides coaching sessions and technical assistance in
specific grade levels for literacy, including a focus on understanding the science of reading and standards-
based lesson planning. Both Academies assist our district with creating multi-tiered systems of support with a
focus on tier I, II, and Ill in academics and social emotional learning and behavioral health.
A K-5 math council including grade level teachers, special services teachers, EL teachers, and administrators,
has been working with DESE's Evaluating and Selecting High-Quality Materials Network to review and
select a core math curriculum. We are planning to begin a field test and pilot of several programs beginning
in February and make a final decision regarding purchase this spring.
Math teachers in grades K-5 have been working with a math consultant and have garnered new strategies for
mathematical discourse routines. Twenty staff members from throughout the district, including guidance
counselors, social workers, and teachers were trained and have been implementing the Trails to Wellness
curriculum, which is an evidence based social emotional wellness program rooted in cognitive behavioral
ideology.
Our Professional Development Committee continues to check-in with the district to evaluate needs and
prepare for upcoming professional learning including future book studies and workshops. Our administrative
team and our curriculum leaders are working with a consultant on workshops pertaining to diversity, equity,
and inclusion and plan to proceed with this work to include the entire district staff. The team is also
participating in a book study based on the book Caste, by Isabel Wilkerson, which takes a close look at social
constructs in the United States. Our team is studying these constructs in connection with our school system
and identifying ways we can improve student inclusion and experiences in Lunenburg.
108
===PAGE 110===
Annica Scott
Director of Teaching & Learning
Lunenburg School Food Service
Food Service Director
Nadine Lorenzen
Cook/Managers
Elin Forgues
John Terho
Marlene Aubuchon-Hoaglund
General workers
Karolyn Braman
Carol DeBettencourt
Danielle Leblanc
Eleni Tsiakalos
Vanessa Cole
Jessica McCarthy
Krystal Morini
Jennifer Cotoni
Since May of 2020, when the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service
(FNS) approved a request by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) to allow school
food authorities flexibility while continuing to feed children for free. Therefore, we can ensure all students
have access to the nutrition they need during the school day. Our program like many others in the United
States continues to struggle with the supply chain breakdown. Our orders are late or shorted sometimes while
the numbers for breakfast and lunch are growing.
Lunenburg School Lunch Program is participating in Harvest of the Month. Massachusetts Harvest of the
Month program promotes a different Massachusetts-produced food each month in cafeterias and meal sites
across the state. The goal is to encourage healthy food choices by increasing students exposure to seasonal
foods while supporting local farmers. Harvest of the Month is a great opportunity to celebrate local foods,
experiment with new recipes and lead the way in making farm-fresh foods available to students and staff.
It also provides wonderful opportunities for school food and nutrition staff, educators, school administrators,
family members and students to collaborate and celebrate a commitment to serving locally grown foods within
the community.
We want to wish Sarah Romano and Patricia Pichnarcik health and happiness in their next adventures as both
have retired from Lunenburg Middle-High School. We have some new faces in each of the cateterias:
Marlene Aubuchon-Hoaglund, Vanessa Cole, Jennifer Cotoni, Jessica McCarthy and Krystal Morini have
joined our team. Each bring their own special set of skills with them.
Respectfully Submitted,
Nadine Lorenzen, Food Service Director
109
===PAGE 111===
Our professional development has centered on literacy instruction and Social Emotional Learning this year.
We have provided the reading, writing, and phonics resources of the Lucy Calkins Units of Study to our
instructional staff at all grade levels. In order to provide staff collaboration time to work with new curricular
resources we added a Common Planning Time by adjusting our building schedule and reallocating existing
support staff. These two actions have allowed for staff to participate in professional development focused on
our literacy and mathematics instruction. We have been able to access consultants as well district curriculum
coordinators so that teachers have an opportunity as a whole grade level to develop and provide evidence
based instruction, common learning experiences and share effective teaching strategies to support student
academic growth.
Our staff works to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and supportive. We continue to
implement the Responsive Classroom model in all of our classrooms. Positive Behavioral Interventions and
Supports (PBIS) is an evidence-based three-tiered framework for improving and integrating all of the data,
systems, and practices affecting student outcomes every day. We have adopted a new Social Emotional
resource, Trails to Wellness which is a whole-school/district-wide approach to teaching social emotional
learning. It is designed to help students recognize, understand, describe, communicate and regulate their
emotions.
The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to ensure
that all students have the services they need to be successful. Common assessments are completed in the
fall, winter, and spring for all children in grades K-2 in the areas of reading, writing, and math. These
common assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of teacher instruction and the progress of students.
Struggling students are identified based on assessment data for access to our current Multi-Tiered Support
System (MTSS) in Reading, Math, Speech, Occupational and Physical Therapy
The Primary School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns. Serving as an advisory
group to the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and developing the
school improvement plan.
Members of the Council for the 2021-2022 school year are:
Principal: Chad Adams Assistant Principal: Kevin White
Teachers: Sarah Curley, Kara Slattery, Nancy Murray, Patti Kilcommins
Parents: Meghan Arnold, Shaunna Baril
School Committee Representative: Brian Lehtinen
We are honored and humbled to be afforded the opportunity to work with our highly dedicated district wide
colleagues and a caring community in order to provide the best possible educational opportunities for our
youngest students:
For more information about the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our website:
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/
Respectfully submitted,
Chad Adams, Principal
110
===PAGE 112===
3102 Karen Tata - Office Clerk
Pre-School
1151 Sherrie Flynn - Teacher
Patti McColl - Para
Kaitlin Clement-Para
1159 Sarah Curley - Acheive Teacher
Sue Finnegan - Para
Sarah Call - Para
Achieve
1201 Brittany Pepoli - Teacher
Alexandra Strazdas - Para
Julia Glover - Para
1160 Alexis Wasiuk - TLC Teacher
Juliana Gentilucci - Para
Sean Cooney - Para
Kindergarten
1104 KI - Kirsten Snape - Teacher
1102K2 - Carly Surrette - Teacher
1101
K3 - Sheila Bilotta - Teacher
1103
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher
1126
K5 - Nancy Murray - Teacher
1136
K6 - Amy Raffaelle - Teacher
Monique Mola - Para
Cailey Powell - Para
First Grade Teachers
1225
IA - Michael Courtemanche
1233 1B - Nicole Bienvenu
1202 IC - Kara Slattery
1204|ID - Christa Palma
1203 IE - Jackie Favreau
Donna Lavoie - Para
Karen Vlasek - Para
ELL Teachers
Meredith Weiss
Laura Wyld
Custodians
Darren Rosa / Tom Blow
Special Education
1124 Laura Refrigeri
Julie Drake - Sped Para
1223 Michelle Withers
Maureen Dupuis - Sped Para
1262 Kristen Anthony
Brittany Gibbons - Sped Para
Physical Education/Health
2108 Gen Nass
Art
1137 Heidi Quinlivan
Music
2205 Katie Swenson
Library Media/Technology
3106 Tara Gauthier
Reading Specialist
1234 Melissa Orlowski
Amy Grant - Tutor
Allyson Simons - Tutor
Specialists
3108 Mary Sieling - Speech
2509 Sue Richards - Phys. Therap
3109 Jayne Dusek - COTA
3107 Maggie Porpora - Occup Therap.
1239 Kristi Schkuta - BCBA
1261
Elena Oksanish - Speech
3105 Intervention Room
2204 Planning Room Upstairs
2120 Teacher's Room
1147 Time Out Room
3171 Conference Rm
2101 Cafeteria
3111 Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager
Karolyn Braman / Jessica McCarthy
Custodians
2123 Chuck Swift
111
===PAGE 113===
hybrid model. The majority of students returned to school, fully masked. Stringent guidelines remained in
place: 6 feet of space when possible, masks even during recess time, desks and high touch surfaces frequently
wiped down, socially distanced lunchrooms, and scheduled mask and water breaks outside. We continue to
have hand sanitizer throughout the building and students use water filling stations for bottles, not water
bubblers. The number of students who could take the bus was limited, causing a significant increase in drop-
offs and pick-ups.
We canceled the fifth grade trip to Nature's Classroom in Beckett that is usually slated for October; however,
in May we invited Nature's Classroom staff to our school. They conducted several days of outdoor activities
with fifth graders.
We participated in the MCAS tests in April and May, per DESE's directive. All three tests (Math, ELA, and
science) were shortened to one session instead of two per subject. Remote students participated remotely,
using the Google Meet as a way to monitor the fidelity of the test taking.
In June the fifth grade celebrated their "completion ceremonies". Local public access television was kind
enough to record the events so parents could enjoy the assemblies via video.
All Chromebooks were collected during the last school week to be cleaned and repaired. Each grade level
held a field day outside for students that included fun activities, games, and picnic lunches. Fully remote
students were invited to join.
In late August we reopened to a full in-person model. There is no longer the option for a remote or hybrid
schedule. Students and staff are still obliged to wear masks inside the building, but they can be removed while
outside, including recess. We established six lunchtimes so all students can eat in the cafeteria while
maintaining six feet of distance. We also established three feet of space between desks to lessen the possibility
of "close contacts" in the classroom.
We made the decision to pilot a "no homework" policy this year. This is based on our experience last year,
during the COVID remote time, when there was no homework. Our intention is that students do their best
work in school and use after school as an opportunity to be social with friends, take on a new sport or hobby,
• and not feel stressed about more worksheets or academic demands. We do encourage all students to spend
time each evening enjoying independent reading. We recognize that there is inequity for students who go
home to a variety of situations some of which are more or less conducive to homework, and have chosen to
mitigate that obstacle. We will review our test scores at year's end to make a decision regarding next year.
Turkey Hill Elementary School currently has 363 students. There are six sections of grade 3, with a total of
134 students. There are five sections of grades 4 and grades 5, with totals of 113 students and 116 students
respectively. There are 26 teachers, 100% of whom are licensed in their assignment area. Our special areas
include physical education, art, music, technology/library and social emotional learning. We are fortunate to
have a full time assistant principal, two full time nurses, a psychologist, BCBA, and a full time adjustment
counselor/social worker.
112
===PAGE 114===
this time many students use the Ikeady platform while others participate in small group work to address
learning gaps. Ready is an excellent way to document student progress in reading and math and identify
areas of need and next steps.
Our literacy specialist, interventionist, and two tutors work together to identify students with significant gaps
in their grade level skills and provide 8-10 weeks of dedicated instruction. They use LLI (Language
Literacy Intervention) for reading and a variety of supporting materials for math.
We are happy that all of the students are back in the building, despite the health challenges. We need to be
together, physically, as a community of learners, to connect and support each other. The students are
amazing in their resilience and capacity to handle all of the restrictions with grace. Looking forward to the
promise of 2022 and hopefully a more normalized environment.
Respectfully Submitted,
Heidi Champagne, Principal
Administration/Office/Nurse
Heidi Champagne
John Palumbo
Alicia McAllister
Laurie Cooney
Health
Meghan Marrone
Cheryl Carlson
Gail Okerman
Katie Lancey
Kathleen Lantiegne
Special Areas
Deborah Difruscia
THES STAFF ROSTER
Room #
Principal
Assistant Principal
Adm. Secretary
Secretary Support
Nurse
Nurse
Guidance, 216
Psychologist
Social Worker
Grade 3
Quinn Cavaco
Amy Harrington
Danielle Celona
Kristen Stillings
Rich Bowen
Nicholette Dumont
Grade 4
Erin Blanchette
Gina Cote
Meghan Russell
Charlotte Guinto
Lynn Marabello
Room #
215
212
213
211
210
209
201/White
202/White
203/White
205/Red
207/Red
Music, 118
113
===PAGE 115===
Tiana Nygren
Amy Sabbio
Megan Greelis
Meredith Weiss
Laura Wyld
Kristi Schkuta
Maggie Porpora
Ana-Sofia Fernandes
Olivia Vigliatura
Paraprofessionals
Carrie Arciprete
Alanna Mulford
Angela Stefaniak
Kathy Cordeiro
Brienna Bilton
Kerry Roder
Kristen Goyne
Nichole Camelo
Gr. 3 Para
Gr. 3 Para
Gr. 3 Para One-One
Gr. 4 Para
Gr. 4 Para
Gr. 5 Para
Gr. 5 Para
Access Para, 112
Teacher/110
Para
Para
Para
Para
Custodians
Tim DeBettencourt
Dominic Dilorenzo
Shawn Sproul
MTSS
Erin Gyles
Lisa Gurney
Madeline Febo
Cafeteria
Marlene Hoaglund
Krystal Morini
Gr. 3 Teacher, 214
Gr. 4 Teacher, 206
Gr. 5 Teacher, 106
ELL Teacher, 109
ELL Teacher, 109
BCBA, 109
Occupational Therapist,
109
Wilson Reading, 204
Speech, 204
Rhonda Connery
Achieve Programs
Christine Defelice
Chrissy Goldin
Kathy Jones
Allison Melvin
TLC
Kelly Young
Melody Henry
Larissa Stacey
Ashley Steele
Tony Miller
107/White
Teacher/111
Para
Para
Para
Interventionist/Room
104
Tutor/Room Former
Lunchroom
Tutor/Room Tech Lab
119
Rob Roy
Tim McKenna
Norman Cormier
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance
510
Café
Admin =2.0
Paraprofessionals = 12
114
===PAGE 116===
Lunenburg Middle School
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support
students' social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated,
creative, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest
communication. The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the
philosophy of educating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a
means by which all students become positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in
high school and beyond.
Lunenburg Middle School is in its sixth year as a co-located middle-high school serving grades six through
eight. Effective, student centered middle schools embrace interdisciplinary teams of teachers that enable
teachers to work with smaller groups of students. Smaller groups of students allow teachers to learn and
engage students in their preferred learning style, making them more confident and successful.
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of
different interests and talents through special areas and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities.
One of our goals is for students to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue
exploring as they move through high school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for
students that foster critical thinking and problem solving skills that prepare them for high school and beyond
or where their passion may lead them to.
Return to full in person instruction
The global pandemic that began in March of 2020 has disrupted and interfered with the method of
instruction our school community has become accustomed to. Since that time, we have participated in fully
remote learning, hybrid model of learning, and in August of 2021, we returned to a full in person learning.
The pandemic took a toll on students, teachers and families, both academic and socially and emotionally.
Lunenburg Middle school has prepared and planned for the full in person return, and has placed personnel
and programs in place to ensure students are serviced in all components of their well-being.
Lunenburg Middle School now has a full time social worker to work with students who may experience an
increased level of anxiety in returning to the building full time. The social worker also is able to run small
groups for students to develop executive function skills, strategies for managing anxiety and stress and help
develop social skills. Our social worker has also done an outstanding job with managing and facilitating
crisis management and assessing student's well-being and aligning out of school services for students and
families.
Athletics and clubs
In our return to a full in person model of learning we also returned to extracurricular activities and athletics
at LMS. In the fall, we successfully participated in middle school Field Hockey and Boys and Girls Cross
Country and this winter we returned middle school basketball after many years of it being eliminated.
115
===PAGE 117===
Grade 7 ELA
47
43
Grade 7 Math
34
35
Grade 8 ELA
47
41
Grade 8 Math
38
32
Grade 8 Sci/Tech/Eng
63
41
2021 Spring MCAS testing at LMS was challenging logistically this year as many students took the test
remotely from home. MCAS scores for this year were more of a diagnostic to determine if and how much
learning loss students suffered during the pandemic. The scores above show the percentage of students who
scored in the " meeting or Exceeding" category and then the column next to it shows or scores in comparison
with the state scores of schools who service similar grade levels. As you can see, even during the pandemic
year, LMS scores are above the state percentage in six out of the seven areas tested. We hope to see continued
improvement in our MCAS scores in 2022 as it will reflect a full year of in person learning and targeting
student learning gaps.
venice alines , student Cub, Yeadlu admitell seda Soviet Night for middle schoole
students after school outside in the recess yard.
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that ensure
student success and promote a passion for lifelong learning even during this unprecedented time of a global
pandemic. The key components to our success continue to be our talented faculty committed to making a
positive impact on students, our parents and community who support our teaching and learning, and most of
all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learning during this difficult time. Together we
continue to make the difference in the lives of students.
Respectfully Submitted,
Tim Santry,
LMHS Principal
116
===PAGE 118===
Ciullo, Jonathan Grade- 6 & 7-Red
Vigliatura, Olivia (Speech)
Shea, Lori (Psychologist)
Fletcher, Jen (LMS Social Worker)
Young, Mary (Behaviorist)
Health Office:
Schatia, Elizabeth
Toomey, Michelle
McGuire, Katie District Health & Safety
Achieve: Middle School
Small, Heather
Grippo, Bessie (para)
Beaudoin, Anne Marie (para)
Grote, Christina
Goode, Lauriana (para)
Caggiano, Bryn (para)
Larkin, Nina (para)
Smith, Jenn (para)
Specialists: Middle School
Therrien, Nicole (PE)
Matthew Marrazzo (PE)
Sheldon, Geoffrey (Music) MS
Belair, Dana (Tech) MS
Warren, Robin (Art) MS
Vallee, Pam (Library)
Special Ed. Middle School:
Lizek, Maura 6th DH
Klingler, Terry (para)
Barone, Judy (para)
Mobley, Melanie 7th
Sheehy, Sandra (para)
Caron, Darlene (para).
Rolfe, Brenda 8th
Ulf, Maribeth (para)
Ross, Nick (para)
Ith Grade:
Bertoni, Meagan
Sheasgreen, Tim
Diamantopoulas, Krista DH
Grebinar, Dawn
Antaya, Katherine
Rios, Jen
8th Grade:
Sullivan, Martha DH
Cormier, Meredith
Whitaker, Mary
Raboin, Amy
Leblanc, Lisa
Guerra, Will
Custodian:
Sampson, Jeri
Technology IT:
Buiwit, Heather
Cafeteria:
Terho, John
117
===PAGE 119===
instruction our school community has become accustomed to. Since that time, we have participated in fully
remote learning, hybrid model of learning, and in August of 2021, we returned to a full in person learning
model. The pandemic took a toll on students, teachers and families, both academically and socially and
emotionally. Lunenburg High school has prepared and planned for the full in person return, and has placed
personnel and programs in place to ensure students are serviced in all components of their well-being.
LHS added four positions to its faculty in order to support students returning from a global pandemic. Two
assistant principals were put in place to support the interim LMHS principal. The assistant principals have
been integral in establishing a student centered culture, establishing routines and structures for students to
feel safe and supported, and supporting the faculty so they are able to devote their time and energy on
student learning.
LHS has also added an additional Guidance counselor to assist and support students back to traditional high
school schedule. This position has benefited our school community by reinventing the guidance suite to be
a student centered area where kids can seek out support or investigate college and careers opportunities.
The guidance counselor position also has been helpful in identifying students who are struggling with stress
or anxiety or are in need of other supports.
LHS added a math teacher to provide additional sections of mathematic courses and reduce the number of
students in sections where some students traditionally struggle. The reduction in teacher/ student ratio will
allow teacher to provide a more personalized, individualized instruction. We also were able to add a
Statistics course and a Math Skills Building course.
The additions to the faculty at Lunenburg High School have allowed students a more varied options for
course selection, provided support and structure for both students and staff to focus on instruction and
learning. LHS looks forward to reporting out on the difference in student learning these positions have
made.
MCAS RESULTS
Lunenburg High School - Spring 2021 MCAS Results (Grade 10)
Subject Test
ELA
Math
Exceeding Expectations /
Meeting Expectations
84%
78%
State Average (EE/ME)
64%
52%
118
===PAGE 120===
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Homecoming weekend was a wonderful event with beautiful weather and well attended by students,
families and alumni. The parade was a huge success with the collection of candy the biggest hit with the
children in town. Many community members noticed the care and time that were placed into the floats at
each grade level. The Blue Knights played well in the football game and we always enjoy watching the
LMS Marching Band perform.
Lunenburg High School Athletic Accomplishments
The LHS Girls Cross Country Team won the MIAA Division 3B Championship and the Boys and Girls
Cross Country and Boys Soccer finished their seasons as league Champions.
All of Lunenburg High School's sports teams qualified for the new MIAA State Tournament Playoff
system. Seven teams were recognized as MIAA Team Academic Excellence Awards. Six Teams were gold
level recipients, with a 3.0 team GPA, and one team earned a silver level, with a team GPA of 2.5 or higher:
48% of the High School students participated in fall athletics as well as 20% of the Middle school students;
That's34% of the total student body at LMHS participated in Fall athletics. Lunenburg High School was
able to offer 8 different sports and 16 levels (Varsity, Junior Varsity, and Middle School)
Four of our high school teams were recognized by the MIAA with a State Sportsmanship Awards. The team
recognized were Football, Field Hockey and both Boys and Girls Soccer:
Blue Knights Football was the only team to be recognized out of 277 teams in the state. LHS Girls' Soccer
was the only team to be recognized out of 331 teams in the state. LHS Field Hockey was 1 of 2 teams out of
200 to be recognized with the Sportsmanship Award. Boys' Soccer was 1 of 4 teams out of 332 in the state
to be recognized for the MIAA Sportsmanship Award.
Additionally, the MIAA noted, this is the first time a single high school received four Sportsmanship awards
in a single season. The Football team was also recognized by the Central Mass Football Officials
Sportsmanship Award. Girls Indoor and Outdoor Track Coach Steve Kyajohnian was inducted into the
Massachusetts State Track Coaches Association Hall of Fame, an incredible honor
Girls Basketball Coach Frank Greene was awarded the Massachusetts Basketball Coaching Award and
MIAA Coach of the Year.
CURRICULUM
Teachers and administrators continue to refine, revise and create curriculum that is aligned to the state
frameworks and is rigorous and challenging. This year's focus is to work in vertical content area teams to
ensure a smooth transition for students as they advance grade by grade. This process also ensures that
students will have and build upon the educational skills that they will need to be successful in future grades.
Scope and sequence maps have been created in order to assist in this grade level curriculum mapping.
Lunenburg High School continues to provide a high quality educations that ensures student success and
promotes a passion for lifelong learning even during this unprecedented time of a global pandemic. The key.
components to our success continue to be our talented faculty, our parents and our community members
who support our teaching and learning. Most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment
to learning during this difficult time. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.
Respectfully Submitted, Tim Santry, LMHS Principal
119
===PAGE 121===
Andrew Cantatore
Jennifer Miller*
Eric Short
Jacob Lanpher
Meaghan Flaherty
Science
Dawn Gearin*
Mitchell Friedman
Craig Pingsterhaus
Jennifer Biery
Robert Hill
Richard Cohen
Foreign Language
Peggy Proctor*
Jessica Beardmore
Tamara Yourk
Heidi Hewitt
Lynn Radford
varialial
Erinanne Burroughs
Timothy Macuga
Mike Estabrook
Paul Harmon
Mary Foyle
Social Studies
Warren Stevenson*
Bradford Hausler
Timothy Normandin
Hailee Martin
Timothy Macuga
Heather Buiwit IT Dept.
Unified Arts
Alexis Pukaite
Steven Boone
Derek Guimond
Caryn Wardwell
Nathan DiPerri
Karyn Guiliani
Eleni Tsiakalos
Sarah Romano
Custodians
Geraldine Sampson
Richard Krafve
Jim Gentilella
Tanner Cote
Roger Hanks
Jeff Bigelow
Special Services
Joshua Koziol*
Jessica Walker
Bryan Speck
Jon Malloy
Amanda Duggan
Olivia Vigliatura Speech/Lang.
Todd Foster
Jaime Millett Social Worker
Mary Young
Jaime Millett School Psych.
Paraprofessionals
Ethan Cheesman
Alex Mihalich
Christine Catalini
Kimberly Monsini
Lisa Szocik-Maillet
Zumaritza Reyes Torres
Joseph Adamowicz
Lyndsi Smith
Michael Barry
James Bunnell Athletic Director
Darlene Steele Athletic Secretary
Pamela Vallee
Guidance
Jeff Dionne*
Erica Stolpinski
Megan Thomann
Katie Berry Guidance Secretary
Lauren Portillo
Jose Martinez
John Sodano
Samantha Collyer
Megan Rodrick
Tim Gardner
120
===PAGE 122===
REPORT
2021
BINA
Montachusett Regional
Vocational Technical
School District
1050 Westminster Street
Fitchburg, MA 01420
(978) 345-9200
www.montytech.net
MONTY TECH
121
===PAGE 123===
deep-rooted knowledge of how students learn best - in-person. School leaders worked tirelessly to develop a schedule
that would bring as many students back into the building as possible, safely, while attempting to balance academic and
vocational in-person learning time. Instructors were provided with additional technology supports and added
professional development days, to write and create curriculum that could be delivered remotely. This, in itself, would
be a challenge. How do you teach a student how to prepare and present a meal, or demonstrate fine-motor skills
required to give a haircut, in a virtual learning environment? How do you assess a student's understanding of
residential electrical wiring, without having the ability to observe and manipulate his/her work? How can you teach
students to safely restrain an animal, with no pet interaction? I am proud to say that the Monty Tech instructors rose to
this incredible challenge, and for much of the 2020-2021 school year, delivered an effective educational program,
using the resources that were available to them.
While face-to-face instruction was provided, that, too, looked and felt different to students and staff. On those days
when students were scheduled to attend in-person lessons, they found things had changed. Traffic patterns were
rerouted, and signage on floors, hallways and doors reminded them to wear a mask and maintain distance. Seating on
busses and in the cafeteria was assigned and closely monitored. A place that had always encouraged connection with
fellow classmates was now insisting on distance. Though it may have been uncomfortable for both students and staff,
the school wide adherence to these new rules seemed to be a quiet demonstration of their understanding. And on May
3, 2021, their compliance was rewarded - Monty Tech was allowed to return to full, in-person learning. With just
over a month remaining in the 2020-2021 school year, students and staff welcomed the change, anxious for the halls
and classrooms to return to a more normal capacity. While masks, social distancing and numerous hand sanitizing
stations were still present, the return of students into the building was a welcome sight for all.
In 2020-2021, it was disappointing that so many traditional annual events had to be cancelled, including VIP, Tour
Day, College Fair, and Career Awareness Night; however, where possible, the district continued to operate at a high
level. Examples include:
To help our faculty and staff return to work, daycare issues had to be addressed, and, as a result, an important
relationship with the Boys and Girls Club of Fitchburg and Leominster developed. The club provided daycare and
homework help, Monday through Friday, to school age children of Monty Tech faculty and staff.
Thanks to more than $670,000 in competitive grant awards, Monty Tech was able to renovate and expand the
welding/metal fabrication shop and retrofit one science lab. The school launched an all new evening training program
that provided no-cost training and job placement to qualified participants. With grant funds, we also established a
Safe and Supportive Schools Team to review school policies and procedures and target those in need of improvement,
with an overarching goal of providing all students with safe and appropriate learning environments.
In an effort to build connections with our school supporters and to "show off" the talents of our students, we held our
first Holiday Sale, which quickly sold out! More than 400 charcuterie trays, designed and handcrafted by our
Cabinetmaking students were sold, and all proceeds went to the Class of 2021 Scholarship Fund.
The 2020-2021 school year was unexpected, challenging, and at times, disappointing, yet there were so many
moments to be proud of. I remain humbled and honored to lead such an outstanding organization, and thank you for
your continued support.
Respectfully submitted, Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D., Superintendent-Director
122
===PAGE 124===
Ashby
Athol
Barre
Fitchburg
Gardner
Holden
Hubbardston
Lunenburg
Petersham
Phillipston
Royalston
Sterling
Templeton
Westminster
Winchendon
Leadership
The leadership team at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is comprised of ten talented
administrators whose varied educational backgrounds, professional experiences, and areas of expertise
contribute to the success of the school. Working collaboratively, and under the direction of the
Superintendent and Principal, the team has transformed the school into one of the most sought-after high
schools in North Central Massachusetts.
Sheila M. Harrity, Superintendent-Director
Tom Browne, Principal
Dayana Carlson, Assistant Principal
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs
Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Programs
Michael Gormley, Director of Facilities
Donald Kitzmiller, Director of Technology
Katy Whitaker, Development Coordinator
Victoria Zarozinski, Director of Student Support Services
2020-2021 STUDENT ENROLLMENT
Enrollment
13,0.94%
On June 1, 2021, student enrollment at Monty Tech included
1,389 students in grades nine through twelve, representing each of
the district's eighteen sending communities.
Each class of
students is comprised of a relatively equal balance of male vs.
female students, and each student attending Monty Tech has
elected to do so, prepared to explore an interest in one of the
school's twenty-one rigorous vocational-technical programs.
698, 50.25%
While the school currently offers only five programs
traditional for male students, and twelve programs non-traditional
for female students, we are proud to have a student population that
is well-balanced by gender and a variety of academic interests and achievements.
678, 48.81%
• Male
• Female
• Non-Binary
123
===PAGE 125===
50
0
34
Ashburnham
яво,
Bore
Fitchburg
Gardner
3
Harvard
Holden
Hubbardston
Lunenburg
4
Petersham
20
Philipston
30
Princeton
Royalston
12
Templeton
Westminster
Winchendon
Out of District
21
Class of 2021 Awards
Members of the Class of 2021 were awarded approximately $200,000 in scholarships, tools, and equipment. The
Monty Tech Foundation generously provided $35,500 in scholarships to graduating seniors, ranging in amounts
of $250 to $2,000. The Foundation also awarded $3,250 to the Practical Nursing graduates. Once again, local and
state organizations, as well as generous individuals, continue to recognize the ability and potential of Monty Tech
graduates in the form of financial donations. The School Committee, administration, faculty, and graduates are
grateful for this support.
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play an important role in helping reduce the cost of higher education.
Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits through a number of articulation agreements with
public and private colleges across the country. Approximately 36% of the graduating class of 2021 reported plans to
enroll at a 4-car college/
university upon graduation. By earning college credits while still in high school, these students will save both
time and money as they pursue advanced educational programs.
Financial Report
In an effort to develop a cost-effective budget for the fiscal year 2020-2021, a great deal of effort was put forth by the
School Committee, administration, and staff. The final fiscal year 2020-2021 Educational Plan totaled $28,814,865
which represents a 0.19% increase over the 2019-2020 Educational Plan. The District's FY21 budget only exceeds the
minimum spending required by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 70 by $899,640 or 3.5%.
The District was audited in December 2021 as,part of the yearly financial audit by the accounting firm of Melanson,
Heath and Co. from Greenfield, MA and expects to receive a good report.
Grants and Contracts
Monty Tech continues to pursue grant funding on an annual basis. These funds help provide many educational and
social services to the student population. For fiscal year 2021, state and federal grant sources provided the school with
$2,037,076. Programs funded by these grants include: Coronavirus Prevention and Relief, Improving Teacher
Quality, Special Education Services and Program Improvement, Title I Support, Perkins Occupational Education,
Vocational Capital Equipment initiatives, Student Support and Academic Enrichment and Marine Corp Junior Reserve
Officer Training.
124
===PAGE 126===
opportunity to apply for a Massachusetts Life Science Center grant presented itself, instructors were eager to apply.
Working closely with the school's Development Coordinator, science instructors proposed the addition of an all-new
science course that would introduce students to Microbiology and career pathways that are emerging in this recent
health crisis. After developing a comprehensive proposal, and soliciting (and acquiring) support from business partner
Bristol Meyers Squibb, the school's MLSC application was approved for funding, infusing the Monty Tech science
department with approximately $110,000. These funds will be used to renovate a science lab (replicating a biomedical
facility), purchase all new course materials, equipment and technology, and provide opportunities for instructors to
attend the National Science Teachers Association's national conference in 2022.
During the spring of 2021, students at Montachusett Regional
% of Total AP Students with Scores 3+
Vocational Technical School continued to demonstrate high
academic achievement, earning commendable scores on AP
80%
exams, though we did see our first decline in students who
61%
61%
scored a 3 or better on the exam. It is important to remember
60%
44%
48%
that these exams took place during a difficult year of Hybrid
37%
Learning and Instruction. We anticipate a return to improved
40%
performance in the coming years, as students return to full-
20%
time, in-person learning.
The school is in its 9th year of administering Advanced
0%
Placement exams, and students enrolled in AP courses
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
continue to improve their performance.
In the spring of 2021, 70 out of 188 (37%) exams earned qualifying credit - the highest number of test takers the school
has ever seen.
This year, more than half of the students who tested in the following subjects received qualifying scores: Computer
Science Principles, AP Language and Composition, and AP US History. Qualifying scores by these students exceeded
the "state" averages in Massachusetts. In addition, students who completed the AP US History exam exceeded
"global" averages.
The AP subject with the highest number of students with qualifying scores was AP Language & Composition with 26
out of 44 students (59%).
MT AP Courses
MT AP Student Enrollment
Students with Qualifying Scores
AP Test Takers
Total # of Qualifying Exams
Total # of AP Exams
Spring 2017
(SY16-17)
6
151
53(44%)
120
65(44%)
148
Spring 2018
(SY17-18)
7
135
46 (48%)
95
58 (43%)
134
125
Spring 2019
(SY18-19)
7
157
68 (61%)
111
79(54%)
146
Spring 2020
(SY19-20)
7
179
89 (61%)
146
75(71%)
106
Spring 2021
(SY20-21)
187
70(37%)
188
60(43%)
140
===PAGE 127===
called Advanced Manufacturing, a name that better aligns with local workforce needs, job titles and qualifications, and
may aide in job placement for qualified students and program graduates. In FY21, program instructors also adopted the
newly revised frameworks, and reviewed and developed curriculum to address any changes noted. 124 NC3
Certifications were earned by students, now skilled in Advanced & Precision Measuring Instrument (PI). Advanced
fusion CAD/CAM software training was completed, and Makerbot Method Carbon was also added to the training
program. All Freshman students successfully completed safety training, earning an OSHA 10-hour general industry
certification. Eight Seniors earned co-op placements, working and learning in area machine shops. (Total student
enrollment: 46)
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology: Monty Tech Auto Body students and instructors prioritized earning valuable
credentials in 2020-2021. Students earned the OSHA 10 hour general industry card, EPA 6H Rule spray certification, I
-Car Pro Level One in Refinishing and I-Car Pro Level One in Non-Structural Repair. Five Seniors also earned co-op
placements, and were reported to be valuable contributors in local repairs shops in the area. Due to the pandemic, the
program restricted shop work to that of Monty Tech staff, but remained surprisingly busy throughout the year. Students
performed quite well at the SkillsUSA District competition, earning a gold medal and a bronze in Collision Repair;
which several students for the State competition. (Total student enrollment: 62)
Automotive Technology: Automotive Technology students benefited from the addition of two new certification
opportunities (digital multimeters and scan tool applications) that were made available to students, using the newly
purchased Snap-On NC3 certified training equipment. These industry-recognized credentials and the new equipment
will enhance the students' level of competency within the automotive industry for years to come. Due to the pandemic,
hands-on learning opportunities and in-house repairs were limited to faculty, staff, school, and student vehicles only;
yet, surprisingly, the shop remained very busy. Students performed repairs that included transmission replacements,
intake manifolds, brake work, and various other technical repairs, demonstrating technical skills that are required for
any service technician in our area. Three Seniors and two Juniors earned co-op placements, while instructors continued
• Wils te an are required for
to utilize e-learning program options to keep the remaining students on track and engaged during the hybrid
schedule. (Total student enrollment: 66)
Business Technology: Monty Tech's Business Technology program continues to benefit from a unique partnership with
Workers Credit Union. The opportunity to participate in teller training and financial literacy workshops has been met
with great enthusiasm from students, who completed nine modules and earned a financial literacy
certificate. Instructors, in collaboration with their post-secondary colleagues, continue to refine and develop new.
articulation agreements. The agreement with Mount Wachusett Community College will provide qualified students with
college credits at no cost to the student. Students are eligible to receive 24 credits from Mount Wachusett Community
College. Unfortunately, due to the pandemic, the Gear House School Store and the Monty Tech Greenhouse were not
operational. Program instructors hope to reopen these important training facilities in the coming year, allowing all
freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to be successfully trained in the day-to-day operations of retail sales. Four Seniors
and three Juniors were out on co-op placements during the 2020-2021 school year. (Total student enrollment: 64)
Cabinetmaking: Monty Tech Cabinetmaking students are called upon for a number of projects small and large, across
the campus and beyond. During the 2020-2021 school year, students completed projects that included: designing and
constructing Barre Cemetery arches, manufacturing button chairs for the town of Royalston's Phineas S. Newton
Library, and designing and installing cabinetry for the Fitchburg Fire Department kitchen. Student work was featured
during the school's first-ever Holiday Sale, where 400 charcuterie trays that were designed and handcrafted by our
students were sold to community members. The items were so well received that they sold out quickly, and community
members have requested similar sales in the future, so that they may benefit from the creative and beautiful work done
by these students. Eight Seniors and seven Juniors earned co-op placements, representing the program so well. A
sophomore student also won gold in the SkillsUSA District Competition. (Total student enrollment: 62)
126
===PAGE 128===
earning environment. During the 2020-2021, instructors collaborated with college partners to develop and sigr
articulation agreements with Mount Wachusett Community College & Quinsigamond Community College that will
grant qualified students with college credits, should they choose to pursue advanced training and education. 17 out of
22 Seniors earned their cosmetology licenses, as the Juniors look forward to scheduling their own exams. Seniors also
earned certifications in COVID Barbicide, and Pravana. Two Seniors were out on co-op, which was beneficial to their
training, as COVID prohibited the opening of our own on-site Salon until May 2021. (Total student enrollment: 82)
Culinary Arts: In a typical year, Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and instructors operate a full-service restaurant
and bakery, serving 90-120 patrons daily. They might also showcase their talents at regional events and fundraisers.
working side-by-side with some of the area's finest chefs. But 2020-2021 was a different year. Due to COVID, and
the hybrid schedule, the school's Mountain Room Restaurant opened to offer take-out meals only to faculty and staff,
three days per week. This also included bakery items and desserts. In April, the restaurant was approved to open to
the public, though on a very limited basis. Students ans instructors found creative ways to keep busy, applying their
talents. In February 2021, Culinary Arts students baked more than thousand cookies and chocolates for the Monty
Tech Foundation Valentine fundraiser. These "cookie boxes" were extremely popular, providing community members
with an opportunity to support the school and students, while also enjoying a sweet treat. All proceeds benefitted
student scholarships. The program also continued to donate leftover baked goods to Our Father's House in Fitchburg.
Curriculum was reimagined, from a traditional in-person format to the required virtual platform, which proved to be
challenging for the culinary trade. Instructors were dedicated to their craft and their students and performed well with
the resources that were available to them, seeking meaningful opportunities for students to continue to develop in their
chosen trade. Junior Students had an opportunity to earn ServSafe Certifications, Sophomores earned the
Massachusetts Allergen Training, and Freshmen earned their OSHA 10 hour Culinary certification. (Total student
enrollment: 93)
Dental Assisting: Monty Tech Dental Assisting instructors have emphasized the need for students to earn valuable
industry-recognized credentials, as a means to demonstrate technical skill and proficiency. As a result, all students
work and prepare for Dental Assisting National Board (DANB) certification exams. In 2020-2021, 93% of
Sophomores passed the DANB Infection Control exam, and 100% of the class passed the DANB Radiology exam.
This excellent pass rate is a true testament to the high quality instruction in the Monty Tech Dental Assisting program,
and something the school continues to be so proud of. A total of 14 students (nine Seniors and five Juniors) earned co-
op placements, while the remaining Juniors and Seniors remained in-house, due to COVID restrictions; affiliation/
externship experiences in area dental clinics and offices were postponed due to the pandemic. All Seniors &
Sophomores received the American Red Cross CPR/AED certification. One Senior won the gold medal at SkillsUSA
districts and went on to compete at the state competition. (Total student enrollment: 61)
Early Childhood Education: Students and instructors in the Monty Tech Early Childhood Education program are
committed to community service activities, but due to the pandemic, were only able to work on in-house on student-
centered projects. Three students earned co-op placements, gaining valuable experience working with young children
in area daycare and educational centers. Six Seniors earned the National Child Development Associate credential,
certification. One student was awarded a Gold medal in the SkillsUSA district competition. In 2020-2021, the Monty
Tech Child Care Center continued to operate on a much smaller scale (due to enrollment protocols), providing
meaningful hands-on learning opportunities for all students in the Early Childhood Education program. (Total student
enrollment: 55)
Electrical: Throughout 2020-2021, students and instructors in the Monty Tech Electrical program wired numerous
machines, equipment, computers, and lights throughout the school. Students and instructors successfully transitioned
lighting in the Auto Body welding stations and the Welding/Metal Fabrication shop to all LED lights. Students also
successfully wired a new sand blaster and car lift in Automotive Technology, helping complete a much-needed update
in that shop. Students worked in Lunenburg, installing, servicing and adding lighting and electrical plugs to the garage
associated with the town's cemetery.
127
===PAGE 129===
avallable because or ine added technology will only open additional career painways for students interested in
pursuing engineering as an occupation.
All Freshmen student completed the OSHA 10-hour General Industry
training and certification program, while five Seniors participated in meaningful co-op placements. (Total student
enrollment: 54)
Graphic Communications: Throughout the 2020-2021 school year, students in the Graphic Communications program
produced numerous projects for our district cities and towns, and a variety of non-profit organizations within the
district. As the COVID-19 pandemic continued, hands-on learning opportunities and time spent in the school were
limited by the change to a Hybrid Learning Program, so students were unable to complete all community service
projects that were requested of them. One Senior and one Junior pursued and earned co-op placements, which
allowed them to continue their on-the-job training in a real world work setting. Of the twenty-one talented Seniors
who graduated from the Graphic Communication program in 2021, 17 were accepted to college, and four entered the
workforce in related careers. Graphics students consistently perform well at SkillsUSA competitions, and 2020-2021
was no exception, with students taking gold, silver & bronze medals at the state competition in in screen printing; a
gold medal was also earned in photography, a bronze was awarded in Advertising Design, and silver and bronze
medals were achieved in Graphic Imaging Sublimation, making program instructors quite proud. (Total student
enrollment: 85)
Health Occupations: The Health Occupations program continues to be one of the more competitive programs here at
Monty Tech, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and practice, balanced by hands-
on learning opportunities in the on-site Sim Lab and through the use of state-of-the-art. Anatomage technology. As
our shop continues to utilize the Skills Capital Grant of $180,246 that was awarded in the summer of 2019, we
continued to improve the instructional spaces, technology and equipment for student training purposes. 14 Seniors
were partnered with area clinics, through the co-op program, where they continued to learn and flourish in their
chosen field, while back on campus, students focused on achieving important industry-recognized credentials. All
Juniors and Sophomores obtained their CPR and First Aid certifications. 29 Sophomores and 26 Juniors received
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CMS targeted Covid-19 training for Frontline Nursing Home Staff
certifications. Eight Seniors obtained their Home Health Aide Certification, and 19 seniors took the NHA Clinical
Medical Assistant Certification (CCMA) exam and passed. (Total student enrollment: 108)
House Carpentry: Though the school has shifted to a Hybrid Learning Model, opportunities to support communities
in the district were ever-present. The Monty Tech House Carpentry program completed a number of projects, large
and small during this challenging time, that included: constructing and installing the little free library for Ruggles
Lane School, and building an 8x12' cooling shed for the Harvest Community Project - both projects were completed
by Sophomores. These Sophomore students also handcrafted a number of beautiful Adirondack chairs, which will be
used for charitable donations in the months to come. Juniors and Seniors, meanwhile, completed the Habitat for
Humanity building project in Ashburnham, and also framed, installed a roof, and sided the equipment garage for the
Town of Lunenburg Cemetery Department. Students and instructors assisted with framing of the Habitat for
Humanity house in Athol, installed a complete truss root system, all exterior trim details, and rooting and sıding
materials. 13 Juniors received their HotWorks certifications, while four Senior students earned co-op placements, and
enjoyed working with area businesses representing the carpentry and construction trades. (Total student enrollment:
HVAC & Property Maintenance: To complement the programs theory and technical skill lessons, Monty Tech
2021, Monty Tech HVAC students and instructors works with other trades at the school to complete the Ashburnham
Habitat for Humanity community service project. In addition, the venting was completed in the Habitat for Humanity
house in Athol. On campus, students removed and installed the mini split system in the school's Bakery. Four
Seniors and three Juniors were placed in area businesses through the school's popular co-op program. All Juniors
earned EPA 608 Certification, and two Sophomores and one Junior performed well, earning honors at the SkillsUSA
State competition. (Total student enrollment: 55)
128
===PAGE 130===
Masonry: The talents of Monty Tech Masonry students are on display throughout district communities, as projects that
were completed during the 2020-2021 school year include: constructing scaffolding at the Habitat for Humanity house
in Athol, replacing a concrete walk at Hubbardston Council on Aging, and repairing a granite wall at the Fay Club in
Fitchburg. A creative solution to restrictive in-person guidelines, Monty Tech Masonry students and instructors
designed, placed and finished a 24'x 24' concrete slab outside, creating an outdoor classroom so that students could
continue to work on important projects, yet remain socially distant and safe. Students continued to maintain the OSHA
silica standard, in a program that operates in compliance with all trade regulations. Three Seniors earned co-op
placements, and continued to refine their skills working with business partners through the school's co-op
program. One Senior won a silver medal at the SkillsUSA State competition, and all juniors completed the industry-
standard HotWorks Certification. (Total student enrollment: 45)
Plumbing: Like programs across the school, the Monty Tech Plumbing program struggled with delivering hands-on
lessons that would rival their in-person instruction. However, talented instructors in the school's popular shop worked
diligently to rewrite curriculum and design lessons that could be adapted. With a focus on theory and technical
knowledge, instructors aimed to embed certification opportunities where possible. To that end, students in grades 10,
11 and 12 successfully completed their HotWorks safety training and earned that important credential. Freshmen also
completed the 10-hour OSHA general industry safety training, while Sophomore students completed the 10-hour
OSHA Construction safety training and certification. Students and instructors collaborated with other trades to
complete two single family house building projects, both located in Ashburnham. Students and instructors also began
rough plumbing for the Habitat for Humanity single family home in Athol. Back on campus, students replaced three
water coolers with combination filtered bubbler/bottle filler units. Seven students (four Seniors and three Juniors)
earned co-op placements, which allowed them to continue to grow in the trade, working with plumbing professionals
in the area. All graduates received either a Tier 1 or Tier 2 completion toward MA plumbing licensure. (Total student
enrollment: 67)
Veterinary Science: 2020-2021 was the 4th year for the school's newest vocational training program - Veterinary
Science. Unfortunately, due to COVID restrictions, traffic in the community clinic was somewhat limited. The clinic
did, though, provide low cost veterinary care to 421 families with 635 pets within our district. 14 Seniors earned the
CVA (Certified Veterinary Assistant) certification; 20 Seniors achieved their Recover CPR Certification; 21 Juniors
achieved their Fear Free Certification; and 22 Freshman successfully completed OSHA 10-hour Healthcare training
and certification. Freshmen and Sophomores learned about the use of animals, anatomy, disease, laboratory skills and
client service. Junior and Senior lessons in pharmacology, surgical and nursing care, and anesthesiology proved to be
invaluable to the students working in the clinic, applying their knowledge with purpose alongside veterinarians and
veterinary technicians. (Total student enrollment: 85)
Welding/Metal Fabrication: The 2020-2021 school year brought some exciting news to the Welding/metal Fabrication
program. Thanks to a partnership developed while working on a Skills Capital Grant, the Monty Tech Welding/Metal
Fabrication program became the first pre-apprenticeship program in the school's history. This 5-year agreement with
the Plumbers & Pipefitters Union #4 will help create a meaningful pathway for students to enter into a registered
apprenticeship program leading them into high-wage, high-skill career opportunities. Numerous projects were
completed by talented students, including more than fifty requests for individual projects from community members
residing in the school's sending district. Students also fabricated and installed copper inlay on two archways for the
Barre cemetery, fabricated an aluminum cupola for the Town of Royalston gazebo, fabricated two art display racks for
Fitchburg Riverfront Park, and fabricated and welded three clothing racks for the Town of Hubbardston Senior
Center. Five Seniors and four Juniors participated in the popular co-op program, and eight Seniors earned the AWS
D1.1 Structural Welding Code Qualification Test. All grade 9 students completed 10 Hour OSHA training. (Total
student enrollment: 57)
129
===PAGE 131===
100
100
80
60
40
20
91
93
99
83
84
70
65
2018-2019
2019-2020
2020-2021
61
September
October
December
February
May
The Cooperative Education Program is an extension of the student's technical education that combines classroom
instruction with on-the-job-training. The Co-op Program provides students with an opportunity to further develop
academic, technical and employability skills in an industry work environment. All students are eligible to participate
in the Co-op Program, provided they satisfy state and school grade, attendance and performance requirements. All Co-
op students have completed the OSHA recognized Career Safe online health and safety course.
The Cooperative Education Program is beneficial for both student and employer. For the student, it is a chance to
gain on-the-job training that improves both their technical
and employability skills. Additionally,
making
connections enhances post-graduate employment opportunities. The Co-op Program allows students to earn while
they learn.
Employer benefits include addressing workforce needs in an efficient manner.
Co-op students provide a pool of
temporary and potential full-time employees who are already trained, thus reducing employer training costs.
op work hours may be tailored to suit the needs of partnering employers. While overall co-op placements experienced
a slight decline, due primarily to business closures in response to the recent pandemic, qualified students (Juniors and
Seniors) continue to work, learn and apply their technical skills in businesses across North Central Massachusetts.
Student Support Services
The 2020-2021 school year forced the world to respond to a pandemic with ripple effects to be felt for years to come.
It goes without saying that we needed to pull together, respond, and unite as partners in order to ensure our special
ns. divid as necked
populations, and all students regardless of identified disability, remained at the center of decisions. Individuals needed
to be met where they were at and all services provided needed to allow for individual needs to be met in new and
innovative ways. The health and safety of our school community and their families dictated our decisions and actions.
As the district responded to the unforeseen COVID-19 related closure, the hybrid model, and reopening events that
occurred throughout the 2020-2021 school year, it did not go unnoticed that our Student Support Service staff,
students, and families displayed great resilience as they worked together to address individual needs and tackle these
challenging times. While we hope to never experience these events again, we did share a number of experiences that
have proven to increase communication and collaboration.
Some of our greatest lessons learned came from this
experience and we want to extend our sincere gratitude for the efforts put forth during such unprecedented times.
During the 2020-2021 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District provided special
services to approximately three hundred students - measuring progress of over two hundred students on Individual
Education Plans (IEPs) and just under one hundred students adhering to individualized Section 504 plans. While the
under od studied studenting progres
Student Support Services (SSS) Department encompasses special education, the department provides support and is
available to all Monty Tech students.
130
===PAGE 132===
individuals are available for scheduled counseling sessions, mental health emergency treatment, medical/mental health
re-entry and transition support services, as well as crisis intervention.
The school's Director of Student Support Services oversees the District's Special Education Program, which is
reviewed annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements. The comprehensive review and evaluation are
done in collaboration with the Parent Advisory Council, and the results of the evaluation are used to improve the
special education procedures and programs in place at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School.
During the 2020-2021 Montachusett Regional Technical School District's Department of Student Support Services
made a concerted effort to increase social, emotional, and community based supports. In addition to our current re-
entry and school based counseling services, Monty Tech and LUK, Inc. joined forces with the help of the Department
of Public Health to provide services to at-risk students and their families. Further, the district partnered with LUK to
create a direct pipeline for Telehealth referrals and access to counseling supports. Couple this with the further
expansion of our partnership with the SHINE Initiative, it has allowed the district to build upon our mission to provide
opportunities for all students to be engaged, lead, and access the supports necessary to improve their social and
emotional wellbeing. The Department of Student Support Services has taken the necessary measures to ensure Social
Emotional Learning (SEL) is in the forefront of conversations when supporting students as they acclimate to returning
to school full time after lengthy periods of time experiencing various educational models throughout the pandemic.
As we establish a full time school routine, we recognize the experiences all students have had over the past few years
has varied. Courses and activities designed to promote mindfulness, understanding, and social emotional wellness are
part of the many course offerings. Yoga and Meditative Art, Visual Arts, Directed Studies with Social Emotional
Learning lessons are all part of the efforts being implemented to ensure we address the needs of all students and
support their individual growth and development in a post pandemic world. More about tiered interventions can be
found on our website. However, it is worth noting that we continue to build and retine our services for all students as
we recognize the importance of developing the whole student and ensuring they are equipped with the necessary to
become productive citizens that can compete and adapt in a rapidly changing economy.
Technology
The 2020-2021 school year proved to be a test in many ways for the Monty Tech educational community, requiring
1:1 Chromebook initiative, so students and instructors had previous experience with the tools and technology needed
to learn in a remote or hybrid setting. To support the additional and now required use of this technology, the
Technology Department spent countless hours during the school year upgrading the network and increasing the
bandwidth coming into the school to sustain video and audio conferencing.
Department personnel upgraded the learning experience for students, by purchasing laptops for students and teachers,
building new iMacs for the Graphic Communications program, and rebuilding surplus computers for full remote
students in CAD Drafting & Design, Graphic Communications, Business Technology, and Engineering, so that they
may work from home on their vocational assignments. A ZOOM license was purchased, and the Instructional
Technologist worked diligently to purchase and deploy software for all teachers. Camcorders, wireless headsets,
interactive displays and a variety of apps were purchased, installed, and put into the hands of our educators to engage
learners at all levels.
Finally, to ensure "business as usual," we invested in Splashtop, VPN client and configured the firewall, so that
faculty and staff laptops could be fixed remotely if a software issue presented itself, and so that the Business Office
would have remote access into the school to maintain a secure working environment, even when the building was
closed.
131
===PAGE 133===
including:
• Inspector General's inspection results
• Number of cadets in the program
• Number of community service hours conducted
• Number of public affairs events attended by cadets
• Number of academic awards presented to cadets
• Participation in drill team competitions, marksmanship competitions, physical fitness competitions, and field
trips that support the growth and development of the cadet
During the 2020 - 2021 school year, MCJROTC Cadets participated in more than 5,000 hours of community service
and volunteerism. Cadets assisted the Salvation Army by collecting more than $25,000 in donations, which were
used to countless families in need during the holiday season. These donations will go on to support community
members that are in need of assistance, especially during the holiday season.
The Monty Tech MCJROTC has assisted with color guards and participation in community parades, which provides
the cadets and community members the opportunity to be involved with civic and veteran ceremonies.
Finally, the Monty Tech Cadet Corps provided 11 Color Guards for local civic and veteran ceremonies, a highlight
for students and instructors alike.
Monty Tech School of Continuing Education
The Monty Tech School of Continuing Education had an exciting FY21, receiving the program's first-ever training
grants. School leaders applied for and received Career Technical Initiative Grants (Rounds 1 & 3), totaling $290,000,
as well as a $30,000 Rapid Reemployment Grant. These grants allowed the School of Continuing Education to
rollout new training programs, offered to qualified participants (must be unemployed or underemployed) at no charge.
In addition, each participant who successfully completed the training would be offered job placement with a business
partner. Comprehensive 200-300 hour programs that culminated in industry-recognized credentials in Welding,
HVAC and Allied Health were developed and advertised. While the Allied Health (CNA) program did not see
enough interested participants to field a cohort, HVAC and Welding were successful in their initial endeavor.
Program leaders continue to track student progress and placements, and expect to pursue additional funding for future
offerings.
As we continue to monitor workforce needs and skills gaps, the School of Continuing Education works closely with
the MassHire North Central Career Center to determine specific training programs that are most in-demand. Our
overarching goal to support the North Central Massachusetts workforce readiness pipeline with an increase in career
and licensure courses is evident in new programs that are developed, existing programs that are refined and in
traditional journeyman/apprenticeship programs that remain a hallmark of our institution.
The pivot to a hybrid learning model seemed to be beneficial to both our career/licensure students as well as our
personal enrichment students. During the Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 sessions, we realized the resiliency of our
students and their willingness to persevere with their training despite the challenges. Our instructors worked
tirelessly to maintain training programs timelines.
Our medical students' skill set was and continues to be in high demand due to the pandemic. We were able to
support our local medical facilities with newly licensed healthcare workers, to include Pharmacy Technicians,
Medical Billing and Coding Specialists, EKG Technicians, Phlebotomists, and Patient Care Technicians. We hope to
offer another CNA training program in the future, as the need for trained Assistants remains great.
132
===PAGE 134===
Bridge" relationship with Fitchburg State University (FSU). Former graduates have successfully transferred into seats
in the LPN to BSN Bridge program at FSU and will continue their education to a Bachelor's of Science in Nursing
(BSN). Many class applicants cited their attraction to Monty Tech as the opportunity to complete a ten-month
accelerated program and then bridge to Fitchburg State University. In the seven -year history of the Bridge Program, all
of Monty Tech's Practical Nursing graduates reaching graduation at FSU have passed their NCLEX-RN exam. These
former graduates have gone on to work in hospital settings including Lahey, Beth Israel, and Baystate Medical Center,
while others have pursued advanced degrees as Critical Care Nurse Practitioners, Nurse Educators, and Family Practice
Nurse Practitioners.
In 2020-2021, Monty Tech Practical Nursing students were asked to complete patient scenarios in the Sim Lab on a
weekly basis in Terms 2 and 3. The Faculty Sim team has implemented National League of Nursing (NLN) patient
scenarios and authored several others consistent with the National Council of State Board of Nursing Detailed Test
Plan. Instructors have also utilized the Sim lab setting to instruct students in developing nursing skills that they may
not be experiencing in the clinical setting.
By successfully developing and implementing a vast library of scenarios reflecting INASCAL Standards (International
Association for Clinical Simulation and Learning, we hope to prepare our students for any experience they may
encounter as a newly licensed Practice Nurse. In Maternity Sim Lab Boot Camp, for example, students utilize the
simulation models to imitate the birthing process, from obstetric office visits through labor and common postpartum
complications. Well newborn care is also taught. Student feedback has been positive regarding these maternity
scenarios, stating it better prepares them for an unexpected outcome during a delivery. This expanded content also
better prepares students for NACE (Nursing Acceleration Challenge Exam) success at FSU.
Substance abuse and the mental health setting job opportunities have increased with more funding being provided to
combat the opiate crisis. In addition to having specialty clinical rotations, students participate in simulation scenarios
involving substance abuse and mental health clients, to help to prepare our graduates to work in a substance abuse
clinical setting.
The Monty Tech practical Nursing Program recently completed an accreditation visit from the Massachusetts Board of
Registration in Nursing, highlighting goals that include stabilization of faculty positions and pursuance of ACEN
(Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing) accreditation to more accurately reflect the changing
environment in nursing education.
Looking Ahead
Undoubtedly, the 2020-2021 school year was challenging and difficult for students and staff, yet the school community
demonstrated a remarkable resilience and commitment to education and service that proves, yet again, that Monty Tech
is truly a special place to work and learn. While adapting curriculum to the needs of all students both at home and in-
person, adhering to state and federal safety and health guidelines, and finding opportunities for students to demonstrate
their creativity and technical skills, certainly kept statt busy, there was always an element of improvement, vision, and
forward-thinking that kept moving the school forward. Successful grant applications, new coursework, and increased
school-to-business partnerships that came about during this difficult year are a few of the more notable initiatives that
we expect to have a positive impact on our school and students in the coming years:
Grant funding to improve and expand training programs: Monty Tech has applied for and received six Skills Capital
Grants, totaling $2,029,686. School officials anticipate a FY22 application may be forthcoming, and as a result, have
met to determine which program is in need of a shop renovation, updated equipment, and/or new technology that
reflects current industry standards. The school's Dental Assisting program, which effectively prepares students to enter
the dental field may be the next vocational program to benefit from grant funding, should an application be approved.
Instructors have advocated for a renovated instructional space, as well as new chairs, tools, and equipment, so that
students are trained using the exact instruments and technology found in area clinics. This improved facility would
certainly benefit our high school students, and would also allow Monty Tech's School of Continuing Education to
develop an all-new evening training program, which would help address the critical shortage for trained Dental
133
===PAGE 135===
program, it may also help feed a struggling STEM workforce pipeline. Whether learning from our industry-immersed
colleagues, or gaining new instructional resources and techniques from colleagues attending the National Science
Teachers Association's national conference, Monty Tech science instructors are prepared to deliver new course materials
that engage students in important and timely science concepts.
Building partnerships for improved job placement: 2020-2021 brought the school's first-ever approval for a Pre-
Apprenticeship program - a designation that we expect may improve our graduates' chances of retaining employment
with a framework for upward mobility. While Welding/Metal Fabrication students already enjoy this new appellation,
school officials may consider seeking approval for other programs in the coming years. To do so, we must first seek and
acquire an approved Apprentice Sponsor. This sponsorship and collaboration will serve as a testimony to the strength of
Monty Tech's vocational programming, and will increase student opportunities for employment and continued education
and training. Business partners that serve on Program Advisory Boards, as Co-Op employers, or who even graduates
who now own and operate their own businesses may be interested in such a unique collaboration. In an effort to prepare
students for careers, it is incumbent on us to ensure that training does not stop when a student leave Monty Tech, and an
approved apprenticeship would ensure students will have continued support and training as they enter a competitive and
demanding workforce.
The Monty Tech School Committee
The Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee is comprised of twenty-two dedicated
individuals, whose expertise proves invaluable in advising the district's operations, policies, and procedures. Our
students continue to benefit from the broad scope of their experiences and varying perspectives, and we are thankful to
the following members of the 2020-2021 School Committee for their outstanding service.
Eric Olson, Phillipston Chair
Melanie Weeks, Fitchburg Vice Chair
Julie Marynok Secretary
Norman J. LeBlanc District Treasurer
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham
Peter Capone, Ashby
Toni L. Phillips, Athol
Whitney Marshall, Barre
Robert Campbell, Fitchburg
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg
Brian J. Walker, Fitchburg
Matthew Vance, Gardner
James S. Boone, Gardner
Amy Morton, Harvard
James Cournoyer, Holden
Kathleen Airoldi, Hubbardston
Barbara Reynolds, Lunenburg
Edward Simms, Petersham
John P. Mollica, Princeton
Mary C. Barclay, Royalston
William Brassard, Sterling
John Columbus, Templeton
Ross Barber, Westminster
Dr. Maureen Ward, Winchendon
Respectfully Submitted By:
Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D., Superintendent-Director
January 21, 2022
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School 1050 Westminster Street
Fitchburg, MA 01420
(978) 345-9200
www.montytech.net
134
===PAGE 136===

===PAGE 137===
TOWN CLERK
136
===PAGE 138===
TOWN MEETING LACERPIS:
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING - May 1, 2021
This was the second annual town meeting with COVID-19 protocols in place. Poll Pads purchased
through a grant allowed voters to be checked in manually or through a scan of their drivers' license.
The electronic check in allowed for quick check in as we didn't have to line up by Precinct,
significantly reducing wait time. Use of the ID (though not required) made the process more efficient
and safer for all concerned.
At 9:03 a.m. the Moderator called the meeting to order. He announced that the warrant was properly
served and led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance. The COVID-19 protocols were quickly
reviewed (microphone directions, use of cards for all votes, no shout outs, etc.). The Moderator then
called on Peter Beardmore to announce retirements of previous Finance Committee members
Michelle Walton and John Henshaw; and also the current members Terri Burchfield and Heather
Sroka who are retiring from the committee this year. The Town Manager presented them with
flowers in appreciation of their service on this committee as well as several other committees in the
past. Then Chris Menard was recognized to announce committee vacancies; and lastly, the Town
Manager announced that the library was conducting a survey. The Moderator also reminded the
town meeting that Lunenburg will be celebrating its 300 Birthday in 2028 - in just 6 years! Rob
Bowen was appointed Deputy Moderator and the Moderator explained the Consent Calendar. And
Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 22, 23 were Voted Unanimously.
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval
riscal year beginning July 1, 2021 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town's General By
-laws; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) VOTED UNANIMOUS
CONSENT-$266,000. As follows:
Revolving Fund
FY22 Spending
Limit
Ambulance Billing
$100,000
Timber Rights
$10,000
School Custodial Special Details
$13,000
Green Thumb
$5,000
Library Revolving
$12,000
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $45,000
Stormwater Task Force
$5,000
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector
$46,000
Technology
$30,000
137
===PAGE 139===
Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 17, 2020 Special Town Meeting; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Article 4 was PASSED OVER.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Deferred
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION: Deferred
ARTICLE 5.
_To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available
funds a sum of money for the FY 2022 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Report,
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to
Raise and Appropriate the sum of $682,502.42; transfer from Free Cash the sum of $804,041; transfer from
Article 6 of the 5/5/2018 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $632.71; transfer from Article 21 of the 5/5/2012
Annual Town Meeting the sum of $6,502.30; transfer from Article 6 of the 5/4/2019 Annual Town Meeting
the sum of $78,600.00; transfer from Article 6 of the 11/12/2019 Special Town Meeting the sum of $464.61;
transfer from Article 6 of the 6/13/2020 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $8,764.46; and transfer from
Article 14 of the 5/3/2014 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $16,317.50; for a total appropriation of
$1,597,825.00 to fund the FY 2022 Capital Plan as follows:
TM
CPC
Priority #
Priority#
CIP#
Dept.
1 FD21-01
Fire
2 PD16-07
Police
3 DPW17-07 Highway
4 FM17-05
Town Facilities
R20-02 Highway
6
6 PD17-02-B
Police
7 LPS20-01
Schools
8 FM20-03
Town Facilities
9 FM21-02
Town Facilities
10
11
12
13
14
15
10 INFRA21-01 Highway
11 FM21-03
Town Facilities
12 PD20-02
Police
13 FMI6-05
Town Facilities
14 FM21-08
Toun Facilities
15 DPW21-02 Highway
Project Name
Turnout Gear
Bulletproof Vests, 29 Officers
6-Wheel Dump, plow &sand/Repl.2005 Intemational
PSB, Chiller Replacement
Flat Hil Outvert Construction
Police Vehicle, Marked Replacement
THES Exterior Envelope Repairs
Riter, ADA Ramp Construction
Town Hall Repairs- Vertex Year tems 2,3,5,6
Page Street Survey/Design/Permit
Ritter, Envelope Repair Projects in Vertex#6-12
Police Vehicle, Marked Replacement
PSB, Replace Carpet 1st Floor
Marshall Park Masterplan
3/4 Ton Pickup with Plow
Category
Equipment
Equipment
Vehicles
Facilities
Infrastructure
Vehicle
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Infrastructure
Facilities
Vehicle
Facilities
Facilties
Vehicles
FY2022
Projected
100,000
17,500
211,000
150,000
428,500
66,950
67,000
127,500
69,425
20,000
120,000
66,950
65,000
50,000
48,000
Total Capital Plan
1,697,826
Funding:
Raise & appropriate
Free cash
Unexpended Capital
Premium Reserved for Capital
Special Purpose Stabilization Account
Total Available Funding
Surplus/(Shortfall)
747,718
738,825
111,282
1,597,825
(0)
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval (6-0-1)
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval
138
===PAGE 140===
FY 2022 Omnibus Budget
Line
No.
Account
VOTED
FY 2022
$
1
2
3
ЗА
3B
4
∞ as
10
11
12
12A
13A
14
14A
15
16
Maturing Debt & Interest
Principal-Loans
Interest-Loans
Interest-Temporary Loans
Admin Fees-Loans
Bond Issuance Costs
Total Maturing Debt
Unclassified
Liability Insurance
Workers Compensation
Group Health Insurance
Group Life Insurance
Physicals
Print Town Reports
Mont Reg Planning Assess
Historical Commission
Band Concerts
Agricultural Commission
Reserve Fund
Salary Reserve Fund
Unemployment Expense
Unemploy. Expense-Stab Fund
Medicare - Town's Share
Total Gen Govt Unclassified
General Government
Finance Committee Expense
3,178,668.94
1,380,528.69
3,395.97
$
4,562,593.60
$
$
$
$
$
$
215,032.60
146,832.00
2,392,473.31
15,000.00
3,500.00
12,000.00
3,708.04
3,000.00
4,200.00
75,000.00
94,000.00
10,000.00
260,700.00
3,235,445.95
$
800.00
139
===PAGE 141===
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
• 40
41
42
43
43A
44
45
46
47
48
49
Tax Collector's Admin
Assessor's Salaries
Assessor's Administration
Technology Director
Legal Expenses
Town Clerk Salary
Town Clerk's Administration
Elections
Registration & Census
Planning Board
Zoning Board of Appeals
Conservation Commission
$
$
Total General Government
Central Purchasing
Central Purchasing
Total Central Purchasing
Protection
Police Department
Police Lock Up
Injury Leave
Police/Fire Medical Expenses
Subtotal Police
Fire Department
Capital - Fire Dept.
Fire Hydrant Expense
Radio Equipment Mtc.
Subtotal Fire Dept.
Radio Watch
Subtotal Radio Watch
Emergency Management
Sealer of Weights & Measures
Wiring Inspector
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
140
104,047.74
193,922.97
236,448.68
110,000.00
53,228.80
50,636.08
16,353.00
18,050.00
158,063.90
3,900.00
61,125.48
1,654,496.34
75,580.00
75,580.00
1,957,090.78
65,600.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
2,030,690.78
1,306,630.15
30,000.00
15,194.00
10,000.00
1,361,824.15
304,679.27
304,679.27
7,000.00
4,300.00
