===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
October 20, 2014 
 
 
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman Georg e Emond at the Ritter Memorial 
Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell and Paul Fortin  
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
October 8, 2014 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
59 Rolling Acres 
 
LOT 7, WHITE TAIL CROSSING  
 
Steve Marsden met with the board.    A new home is being built on this site.  When the “as-built” 
plan was prepared for the site, it was noted that the well was drilled 38 feet from the property 
line.  Board of Health Regulations require 50 feet.  A variance is being request for offset to 
property line from 50 feet to 38 feet.  The well’s current location does not affect the abutting 
property owner and is more than 50 feet from the property line. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.  All 
in favor. 
 
59 ROLLING ACRES ROAD  
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure and discharging 
to the surface of the ground.  The house is served by public water.  This site has high ground 
water and the existing plumbing can’t be raised.  A sieve analysis was performed and a 20 MPI 
perc rate was used to design the system.  Variances requested are the use of a sieve analysis, 
offset to groundwater from four feet to three feet and separation less than 12 inches.\ 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  
All in favor. 
 
===PAGE 2===
73 PINE GROVE ROAD  
 
Owner Roy Hall met with the board.  Agent Garreffi conducted a housing inspection at the above 
address.  Violations were noted and an order to correct was issued.  One of the violations was for 
the ceiling height in the unit.  Mass Housing Code  requires a ceiling height of 7 feet (84 inches) 
in ¾ of the space.  The ceiling was measured at 83 inches.  Mr. Hall is requesting a variance of 
one (1) inches in ceiling height as there is no feasible way to raise the ceiling. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.  All 
in favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:00 pm 