===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MONDAY , DECEMBER 18, 2023
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
Present Members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Chair Brian Laﬀond, Clerk John RabbiƩ, Interim 
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
CALL TO ORDER
The meeƟng opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
o John RabbiƩ discusses the tax reform regarding the senior work oﬀ program. The 
new law states the work oﬀ program has been raised from 1,500 to 2,000 a year.
o John RabbiƩ has some quesƟons regarding the classiﬁcaƟon hearing.  Rena Swezey 
conﬁrms that only a recommendaƟon from the Board of Assessors is made regarding
whether to go with a single rate or a split rate. The Board of Selectman makes the 
ulƟmate vote.  John RabbiƩ has found an extensive classiﬁcaƟon presentaƟon from 
the city of Melrose. Rena Swezey conﬁrms that Nate Cramer knows exactly what 
goes into the presentaƟon. John RabbiƩ requests to be more involved. 
 Public
o Carl Luck - 50 Sunset Lane- raised concern that on the current Vision cards lakefront 
property owners have an addiƟonal percentage added. The abatements valued at 
average were raised an addiƟonal 4 percent and the homes listed as good were 
raised an addiƟonal 8 percent. Brian Laﬀond requested a list of quesƟons regarding 
concerns similar to the quesƟons listed below.
- Will the 2023 and 2024 property cards not be used by the current contractor? If 
that’s not true what will be used from the current database and what won’t be 
used?
- Will the 2023 vision cards sƟll reﬂect the 135% across the board in case and not 
the abated values?
- How will the abatements be communicated to the contractor or is this something
they don’t even consider?
- Is the whole town starƟng new or just the lakefront properƟes?
- When can we get these new answers?
- When will inspecƟons for properƟes be scheduled? 
o Rena Swezey conﬁrms that Vision has someone out right now reviewing 
all the properƟes that have sold. Municipal Finance Services (MFS) crew 
will be out in the ﬁrst couple weeks of January doing drive-bys and 
checking property cards all over town. They will be reviewing the data on 
the property cards. 
===PAGE 2===
OLD BUSINESS
 Approve Minutes of: April 4, 2023, October 11, 2023 (Gap), November 20, 2023, 
December 4, 2023 (if ready)
o The minutes from April 4th with the Select Board have been recreated. MoƟon to 
approve the minutes by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John RabbiƩ. All in favor. 
o The minutes from October 11th have been modiﬁed several Ɵmes. MoƟon to 
approve minutes with modiﬁcaƟons by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John 
RabbiƩ. All in favor.
o MoƟon to approve the minutes from November 20th meeƟng with modiﬁcaƟons 
by John RabbiƩ, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
o MoƟon to approve the minutes from the December 4th meeƟng with 
modiﬁcaƟons by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John RabbiƩ. All in favor.
o There was menƟon of a meeƟng on June 7th. The board was unable to ﬁnd any 
notes or videos. It may not have been a public meeƟng.
 
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
Backlogged invoices were signed, and Rena Swezey will review with Heather 
Lemieux. 
Myleen Mallari has requested the third quarter esƟmated bills be signed.
Myleen Mallari has pulled out just the third quarter esƟmated bills from the ﬁrst 
and second quarter. It will be the same payment as the last 2nd quarters. The 4th 
quarter will be the actual bill that will be adjusted.
Rena Swezey provides the Board with a requested signature of aﬃdavit from the 
resident purchasing 801 Lancaster.  The resident acknowledges that he will keep 
the chapter lien. Once the applicaƟon ends in December a new applicaƟon will 
be submiƩed. The old lean will be removed, and a new lien will be put into place.
Brian Laﬀond signed the document and Rena Swezey will return it to the 
aƩorney. 
 Status Report from Interim Principal Assessor (Rena Swezey)
The kickoﬀ meeting with Mike Tarello took place. Also in aƩendance was Heather
Lemieux, Becky Boucher from the DOR, and Brian Laﬀond. Mike Tarello explained
what he has started with and what Vision will be doing and their process. The full
ﬁeld review will start on January 15th. Mike Tarello stressed the importance of 
geƫng everything on the website. Once preliminary evaluaƟons are received, 
they will be posted. There is a period between preliminary cerƟﬁcaƟon and ﬁnal 
cerƟﬁcaƟon where selecƟve changes can be made. The board is requesƟng Mike 
===PAGE 3===
Tarello to come in for a meeƟng to review and explain how he reached the 
answers relaƟng to the land curve.
DOR representaƟve Becky has updated the work plan from last year. It shows 
Ɵmelines and who is compleƟng what work. 
The senior work oﬀ program has ended for the year and will start again January 
1st. 
Tax classiﬁcaƟon hearing is scheduled for March 12th and the tax bills need to go 
out on March 31st.
There is a suggesƟon by the Board to discuss the possibility of budgeƟng for a 
part-Ɵme data collector with the Town Manager.
Sarah Cammer has a quesƟon related to the number of neighborhoods and if 
Mike Tarello has any recommendaƟons or suggesƟons. Rena Swezey conﬁrms the
town currently has 5 neighborhoods. 
John RabbiƩ has a quesƟon about when abatements requests are due. Brian 
Laﬀond states normally the bills will go out January 1st and the abatement 
requests need to be back by February 1st. This year in Lunenburg the bills will go 
out for March 31st will be sent out and the abatement runs unƟl May 1st. 
 Status of Community Outreach
o Senior Center (Jack RabbiƩ) 
The tentaƟve presentaƟon date is early March as applicaƟons are due 
back by April 1st.
John RabbiƩ has a quesƟon relaƟng to 41C and 41C 1/2. Rena Swezey 
conﬁrms that at the town meeƟng 41C was chosen because it is the most 
beneﬁcial to our seniors. Sarah Cammer states that the town meeƟng 
approved 41C and that’s what is on record currently for this ﬁscal year. 
Jack will invesƟgate further.  This would have to be proposed at the town 
meeƟng for them to take a vote.
o Develop “How to Read Your Vision Card” (Sarah Cammer)
The Town of Concord has a 2-sided document that explains the 
assessment process. It shows how they come up with land curves, site 
index, excess land. AddiƟonal there are construcƟon details on houses 
that include the code to grade factor and data manual.  Sarah Cammer 
requests the board members review and provide feedback. 
===PAGE 4===
 Status of requests for improved collaboraƟon with Town Manager
o Insert for Q3 Property Tax Bills
There is a ﬁnalized insert that both Myleen Mallari and Heather Lemieux 
have reviewed.
o Future RFP Development
 Status of Website improvements (Jack RabbiƩ)
The Board suggests creaƟng a secƟon enƟtled assessors reference materials. This
can include links and videos. John RabbiƩ shares that there is a video from 
UMass about taxes and how taxaƟon works. John Rabbit conﬁrms that this video 
can be made Lunenburg friendly. Sarah Cammer suggests adding the video about
the levy and the 2 ½ percent and how new tax growth works with the levy. Rena 
Swezey suggests sƟcking to the MAAO informaƟon.
Brian Laﬀond requests John RabbiƩ inform the board about what is being rolled 
out at diﬀerent Ɵmes.
 CAI – Currently we “freeze” Property Record Card as of January 1 each year
There was a discussion about the property record cards being updated more 
frequently. Rena Swezey shares this can be done on a quarterly basis but the 
changes to CAI are very speciﬁc. Rena Swezey will discuss with Mike Tarello and 
make a recommendaƟon to the Board.
 Review Property Cards for recent abatement requests / InvesƟgate diﬀerences
John RabbiƩ has reviewed 10 property cards and condos. Brian Laﬀond states 
that condominiums do not value the building separately from the land and it is 
built into the sales value. Rena Swezey states that if someone is buying a condo, 
they are only buying the unit and the land is common.  Rena Swezey will start by 
looking at vacant land sales to get an idea of how much vacant land is worth.
o Assessment ReconciliaƟon – Sample Findings (Sarah Cammer)
This was not discussed.  
 Discuss response to extensive ciƟzen quesƟons. - i.e. Derner, Lucks, BlaƩ.
o Determine Work-plan
Some resident quesƟons have been answered but they need to be 
consolidated. 
 CorrecƟve AcƟon Request proposal (includes Tracking / Closure)
John RabbiƩ proposes they uƟlize the ISO 18094 format and build a database to 
support.
 PotenƟal for ad-hoc ciƟzen commiƩee(s) to aid board members
===PAGE 5===
A proposal was received from a resident in the town. Some of the proposed 
projects can’t be completed due to conﬁdenƟality.  This topic will be added to 
the agenda for the next meeƟng.
NEW BUSINESS
Sarah suggests asking for access to the MicrosoŌ database and a one drive so the Board 
can share documents.
FUTURE AGENDA TOPICS
 Review and Approve Senior / Veterans ExempƟons
o Discuss implicaƟons for FY2024
 Review and Approve Chapter Land ExempƟons
 SoŌware – Xembly discussion
 Schedule Future Zoom Session for Public Q&A with Nate Cramer
 Staﬃng recommendaƟons
o Brian Laﬀond and Rena Swezey will discuss further.
NEXT MEETING
 January 8, 2024 - Note: at Senior Center
 January 22, 2024 - Closed meeƟng for exempƟons and chapter land signing. 
 January 29, 2024
 February 5, 2024
 February 19, 2024- TentaƟve date 
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
No public comment.
  Board
Rena Swezey requests a meeƟng with the Board to sign all the exempƟons and 
chapter lands. These are not public so it must be a closed meeƟng. MulƟple 
signatures are needed. 
ADJOURN 
MoƟon to adjourn and enter into ExecuƟve Session, not to return to Open Session aŌer exiƟng 
ExecuƟve Session by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John RabbiƩ.
The meeƟng closed at 8:47 PM.