===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MONDAY , NOVEMBER 20, 2023
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
Present Members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Chair Brian Laﬀond, Clerk John RabbiƩ, Interim 
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
CALL TO ORDER
The meeƟng opened at 6:36 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board Comments
- John RabbiƩ shares informaƟon regarding the senior work oﬀ program that takes
$2,000 a year oﬀ on taxes. 
- John Rabbi Ʃ looked at CAI property card and the Vision property card and 
noƟced a discrepancy in the assessment amount. John RabbiƩ shared that he is 
worried that the informaƟon is being pulled and the numbers aren’t lining up. 
John RabbiƩ suggests that Brian Laﬀond sit down with operaƟons and the town 
manager to see if there is a system leak and ﬁnd out why that’s happening. Brian 
Laﬀond believes this is a mis-characterizaƟon. Rena Swezey conﬁrms that the 
Vision system is not currently up to date and the informaƟon is not correct.  
Sarah Cammer suggests adding this item to the next agenda, so members can 
read and review prior to having a discussion. 
 Public Comment
- No public comment.
OLD BUSINESS
 Approve Minutes of: October 11, 2023, and November 6, 2023
-T h e  m e eƟngs from October 11 sƟll need to be reviewed by the Board to ﬁll in 
gaps in minutes due to audio issues. 
- The minutes for November 6 th were not approved as wriƩen and amendments 
will be made. John RabbiƩ has numerous correcƟons and/or speciﬁc wording to 
be included. Brian Laﬀond has noted all of John Rabbits addiƟons and will make 
the necessary adjustments. Sarah Cammer has 2 correcƟons that she will give to 
Rena Swezey and Brian Laﬀond to adjust minutes. 
- John Rabbi Ʃ informs the Board that the minutes from the September 27th 
meeƟng are not currently on the town website. Brian Laﬀond and Rena Swezey 
will inquire to get them added.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, etc.
 Status Report from Interim Principal Assessor
===PAGE 2===
- Rena Swezey has been working with th e tax collector, Marlene, and they are 
geƫng ﬁles ready for the third quarter billing. Rena Swezey has met with Vision, 
and she is working on creaƟng a data collecƟon manual. 
- John Rabbi Ʃ quesƟons if there is a schedule or plan.  Rena Swezey states the 
schedule being used is from the DOR and is being used as guidelines. Brian 
Laﬀond has a meeƟng scheduled with Mike Tarello and DOR on December 5th to 
create a more detailed list with a schedule. 
 Status of Community Outreach Senior Center
- Senior Center
John RabbiƩ and Rena Swezey are going to be seƫng up a meeƟng prior 
to their presentaƟon regarding exempƟons.  The senior exempƟons can 
start to be ﬁlled aŌer the ﬁrst of the year.
 Status of requests for improved collaboraƟon with Town Manager
- Insert for Q3 Property Tax Bills
John RabbiƩ suggests some sort of aƩachment with a visual or Ɵmeline 
could be beneﬁcial to provide. Rena Swezey states that all informaƟon 
being provided is on the website and only certain things can be put in a 
leƩer in a tax bill. Brian Laﬀond agrees some visuals will be helpful. Brian 
Laﬀond will talk to Heather Lemieux to discuss it further. 
-E x i s Ɵng Contracts
The Board wants a copy of all contracts. 
- Future RFP Development
Brian Laﬀond will be meeƟng with CAI, DOR and the town manager. 
 Discuss response to extensive ciƟzen quesƟons. - i.e. Derner, Lucks.
There were 30 to 35 quesƟons that were received by the public. The Board will 
give this list of quesƟons to Nate Cramer to get his responses. Once answers are 
received, they will be added to the website.
APPOINTMENT - 7:00 p.m.
 QuesƟons for MFS: Nate Cramer
Rena Swezey sent a list of quesƟons to Nate Cramer prior to the scheduled meeƟng. 
Below are the public quesƟons with a response by Nate Cramer.
- Why is there such a di ﬀerence in the percentage of total value for below average,
average, and good properƟes?
o Sales were used to determine the adjustments which were based on 
trends that were seen speciﬁc to waterfront properƟes.
-I f  w e  a r e  m e nƟoning curves and calculaƟons in the answer, can we see a diagram
and walk through the calculaƟons?
o The calculaƟon uses only sales data. Percentage diﬀerences are based on 
the sales of the diﬀerent Ɵers. 
- When are assessed values considered lo w compared to current sales? How did 
you determine how much to increase?
===PAGE 3===
o The determinaƟon is based on the assessment to raƟo sale. The current 
assessment is divided by the most recent sale price of that property. The 
median ASR for the whole class is between 90% and 100% of market 
value. Typically, towns tend to run at 95%.
- When assessed values are higher than current sales how do you determine how 
much to decrease values?
o Same answer as above. There may come a point when the assessed values 
trail behind what the markets are showing, and values may become higher 
than what they could sell for. 
- What market factors should be implemen ted around town and where in order to 
accommodate diﬀerences between the quarƟle’s ranges?
o Some suggesƟons that were previously menƟoned include topography, ﬁre 
roads, easements, and right of way.
- How is an assessor to know when it is more appropriate to follow the qualiﬁed sales 
method your group chose versus the original method Lunenburg followed for the 
past year?
o Nate Cramer states that CJ did his calculaƟons the correct way based on the 
informaƟon he had and what he was familiar with.  What he was not aware 
of was that most of those sales were not representaƟve of most of those 
homes on the water.
- What checks and balances ar e missing from the Lunenburg oﬃce that you’ve seen in 
other town?
o Lunenburg is a 2-person oﬃce, and all the values are calculated in-house. 
Mike Tarello would have a beƩer answer as he is much more familiar with the
communiƟes that are around Lunenburg. They are aware of the trends and 
what to look for. AddiƟonally, the tax rate dropped $3 dollars which is a red 
ﬂag, and 15 cents is considered a big change.
QuesƟons from John RabbiƩ
- When you met with CJ did you build ﬁt models to arrive at those numbers?
o Stats were used including the ASR, codes, and guidelines. There are 
requirements that need to be met through the commissioner of revenue that
Ɵghtened up those numbers. The data provided was not Ɵered and there was
only one price of land no maƩer where it was on the lake. It was one price 
per square foot universally.
- Is there any de ﬁniƟon to use to deﬁne slopes for topography.
o There are a lot of gray areas. If there is more than a 45 degree slope it is 
considered to be a non-usable area.
- How do you grade a bathroom or kitchen?
o There is a place on the property cards to list extra features.  This will add 
more value. The grade refers to the quality of construcƟon. It’s very rare to 
change the grade of a property unless the home was completely guƩed with 
renovaƟon. 
===PAGE 4===
NEW BUSINESS
 Website improvements
o Melrose vs Lunenburg review
Melrose has a very extensive website. John RabbiƩ believes there are a lot of 
things to be added to our website including a site map. John RabbiƩ also believes
there should be addiƟonal informaƟon for seniors since a third of the town’s 
populaƟon are seniors.
Brian Laﬀond suggests puƫng together an archive of documents that are old and
not as relevant. Brian Laﬀond volunteered John RabbiƩ to work with the person 
who runs the town website to help evolve.
o Other suggesƟons
 Neighborhood map once one is completed.
 A secƟon for commonly asked quesƟons.
 Field InspecƟon Manual / Data CollecƟon Manual draŌ review
Brian Laﬀond quesƟons when a draŌ will be able to review. Rena Swezey hopes 
to have a draŌ within the next few meeƟngs. This topic has been added on the 
agenda for the December 4th meeƟng. 
 PotenƟal for ad-hoc ciƟzen commiƩee(s) to aid Board members.
o There has been interested by residents looking for a way to help. 
o Brian Laﬀond believes the Board should take as many resources as possible. 
Brian Laﬀond also states any ciƟzen would be a non-voƟng member. Brian 
Laﬀond will do some addiƟonal research. 
o Rena Swezey states that veterans and seniors’ informaƟon is conﬁdenƟal.
o John RabbiƩ suggests this may be a good opportunity to potenƟally train 
people for the future of the Board.
FUTURE AGENDA TOPICS
 Review and Approve Senior / Veterans ExempƟons
RecommendaƟons are sƟll being developed and will be added to upcoming agendas.
The bullets below were added as an agenda items for the next meeƟng. 
o Discuss implicaƟons for FY2024
 Review and Approve Chapter Land ExempƟons
 SoŌware – Xembly discussion
 Policy Establishment / Review
o Land Value Policies / Propose Criteria
o Building Value Policies / Propose Criteria: New Categories
o Data Storage. (i.e. Reason for previous approval of abatement)
===PAGE 5===
o Document Control
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
- Anna Lockwood- 91 Main Stre et– refers to a prior meeƟng regarding rules and 
responsibiliƟes. She menƟons her experience with the gray area and how it was 
helpful. It can be used to create accountability in small groups and the gray area 
shouldn’t be eliminated. 
- Carl Luck – 50 Sunset Lane-shares he is happy that the Board is addressing quesƟons 
from the public. States the answers from Nate Cramer were so high level that they 
weren’t helpful to him. At a prior meeƟng with diﬀerent Board members a draŌ was 
presented by Nate Cramer and wanted it published. When the ﬁnal report came out 
3-4 weeks later the numbers were ridiculous. Carl Luck requests a copy of the draŌ 
to see what changed and why. He requests to see the math and the Board will reach 
out to Nate Cramer and request that informaƟon. 
- Phyllis Luck – 50 Sunset Lane- suggests that people can work in subcommiƩees to 
gather data and informaƟon from other towns.
 Board Comment
- Sarah Cammer suggests some future ag enda items should include an update on 
senior policies and create a list of changes or addiƟons to the website. 
- John Rabbi Ʃ suggests a Master Project Plan: topics to include policies manual, 
organizaƟon chart, contract suppliers, senior outreach program, Ɵmeline of when 
items can be addressed, and invesƟgaƟon of property cards.
-B r i a n  L aﬀond suggests subcommiƩees for addiƟonal help or an addiƟon of members 
to the Board. 
ADJOURN TO EXECUTIVE SESSION - MoƟon to Adjourn by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John 
RabbiƩ to enter into ExecuƟve Session not to return to Open Session aŌer exiƟng ExecuƟve 
Session. Roll call vote.
ADJOURN
The meeƟng closed at 9:04 PM.