===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P. O .  B OX  1 3 5
LUNENBURG, MA 01462
October 11, 2023 - Minutes
Present Members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Chair Brian Laﬀond, Clerk John RabbiƩ, Interim 
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
1. Call to Order 
The meeƟng opened at 6:45 PM.
2. Opening Public Comment
 Board: No board comments.
 Public: No public comments.
3. Old Business 
 Approve Minutes 
o MoƟon by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John RabbiƩ to approve the following 
meeƟng minutes: April 25, May 4, May 16, May 23, June 29, and July 18.
 The below meeƟngs were amended for each listed reason. 
o May 25, June 8, and June 13: Removal of ChrisƟne Higdon from the members 
present list.
o May 30 and June 15: AddiƟon of John RabbiƩ to the present members list.
o June 6: Removal of ChrisƟne Higdon and addiƟon of John RabbiƩ to members 
present list. 
o August 1: CorrecƟon under board member comment secƟon relaƟng to who was 
nominated, voted for, and posiƟon.
o MoƟon by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John RabbiƩ to approve the minutes above 
with the amendments.
 Review and Approve Expense Vouchers and Payroll
o Timesheets and expense vouchers from 9/12 to 10/4 regarding mileage by the 
Interim Assessor approved. All in favor.
Table Interim Principal Assessor’s report unƟl Rena arrives.
4. New Business
 Regular MeeƟng Schedule and Next MeeƟng Dates
o MeeƟngs will be held on the 1st and 3rd Mondays of each month unƟl the end of 
December. Upcoming meeƟngs are as listed: November 6, November 20, December 
4, and December 18.
 Community MeeƟng to update public on Q3 & Q4 Property Tax Bills
The Q3 tax bills will be esƟmated and the Q4 tax bills will be actual. Rena Swezey to conﬁrm 
the dates exact dates.
o  Insert from the Treasurer to be included in Q3 Property Tax Bills 
===PAGE 2===
 The board will follow up with the town manager regarding the 
contents of the insert. The board votes that all members sign this 
insert. John RabbiƩ votes to have Chair Brian Laﬀond be the point of
contact person to work with the town manager regarding the insert, 
seconded by Sarah Cammer.
o Outreach
 John RabbiƩ wants to work with Rena Swezey regarding outreach 
programs. Sarah Cammer inquired about how much Ɵme should be 
alloƩed to work on this project. The board agrees for John RabbiƩ 
and Rena Swezey to spend an hour per week on this project.  Rena 
Swezey states that all exempƟons need to be submiƩed between 
January 1 and April 1. 
 Seniors: 
 Ms.  Cammer states that while she is not opposed to 
increasing the amount of exclusion value for Seniors, it is 
not pracƟcal for this year, as it will require working through 
Town MeeƟng.  She suggests working with current values.  
 Veterans:
 Must have a service-connected disability to qualify for this 
program. John Rabbit suggests bringing in the veteran 
admissions oﬃcer to gain addiƟonal informaƟon.
 Lake Group(s)
 Tabled unƟl a future meeƟng. A discussion can be had once 
preliminary evaluaƟons are reviewed so that residents are 
aware of what to expect.  
Resume Old Business
 Status Report from Interim Principal Assessor
o Rena Swezey has emailed the board members inspecƟon reports of the new 
construcƟon that has been entered into the computer system.  Sketches of the 
houses are not yet completed, and lot splits have not yet been added to the 
computer system.  
o Currently awaiƟng P&S for 2 parcels. MoƟon by Brian Laﬀond, seconded by Sarah 
Cammer to table discussion unƟl those are received. 
o Reopen discussion about Interim Principal Assessor Report of 9/27/2023
 John RabbiƩ wants more involvement in acƟviƟes of outsourced product. 
Brian Laﬀond stated that if JR is making a moƟon to insert the BOA into 
regular working sessions, he would not second it as we must allow our hired 
agents to do their work. 
 JohnRabbiƩ suggested that the Interim Principal Assessor should aƩend the 
monthly Finance MeeƟng with the Town Manager. Brian Laﬀond will 
invesƟgate if that is necessary. 
===PAGE 3===
 John RabbiƩ asked if the Town is providing all the contracted requirements 
for the Vision contract.  Rena Swezey stated yes to all requirements. 
o John RabbiƩ stated that Vision Property Cards and CAI Property Cards are out of 
date and don’t match.  Rena Swezey stated that while the Vision cards are being 
updated and are done through the year, the CAI cards are AS OF January 1st each 
year, so they will not match for anything that changed throughout the year. 
o John RabbiƩ stated that there is a lot of informaƟon n the Vision Property Cards, but
asked if we can add ﬁelds as we need for more detailed capability. Rena Swezey that 
we cannot add ﬁelds that do not already exist in Vision, but that Vision has many 
factors that Lunenburg is not currently using.  We can work with Vision on most 
addiƟonal ﬁelds we choose to use.  
 We returned to some addiƟonal (RRC) bills that were overlooked earlier in the meeƟng. 
o There seemed to be some confusion on the dates on the bills and potenƟal 
duplicaƟon.  The bills were not signed and will be returned to the oﬃce for 
clariﬁcaƟon. 
  Building Value Policy.
o  Discussion – Add Seasonal Use CoƩage
 Oﬀ-ground construcƟon, no central heat, etc.
 Rena Swezey will draŌ a proposal for next meeƟng.  
5. Future Agenda Topics
 Review and Approve Senior / Veterans ExempƟons
 Review and Approve Chapter Land ExempƟons
 SoŌware – Xembly discussion
 Policy Establishment / Review
o Land Value Policies / Propose Criteria. (i.e.:
  Topography
 Waterfront Quality
  Rights of way, Roadway, etc.
 Other)
 Building Value Policies / Propose Criteria. (i.e.: New Categories)
 Data Storage. (i.e. Reason for previous approval of abatement)
 Brian Laﬀond asked how we can see copies of Contracts and Service Proposals from our 
agents.  Rena Swezey stated that those documents are not in the BOA oﬃce and we would 
need to ask the Town Manager. 
o Sarah Cammer made a moƟon to ask for copies of exisƟng Contracts and Service 
agreements.  JR Second.  Unanimously approved. 
o John RabbiƩ suggested that we ask for future involvement in development of RFPs 
and/or Contract deliverables and VeriﬁcaƟon of Performance.  
 Sarah Cammer stated we could review current data for exisƟng deliverables 
and Ɵmelines. 
 Brian Laﬀond cauƟoned that we need to make sure not to overstep the 
procurement process 
 Brian Laﬀond took acƟon item to follow up with Town Manager
===PAGE 4===
o John RabbiƩ also wants the BOA to have more say in personnel-related decisions
 Brian stated that while BOA has raƟﬁcaƟon authority, we can invite the Town
Manager to discuss having a larger role in wriƟng job descripƟons for future 
openings
 Document Control 
o Discussion about dates and stamping documents to create a record.
o John RabbiƩ pointed out that he has discovered three diﬀerent job descripƟons for 
the Principal Assessor.  Brian Laﬀond will invesƟgate with Lunenburg’s HR person. 
6. Closing Public Comment 
 Public Comment
o Carl Luck suggests that all communicaƟon be added to the website and a noƟﬁcaƟon
is sent out when something new is posted. Carl Luck quesƟons why the vision cards 
aren’t updated to reﬂect the abatements and new assessments. There is expressed 
concern by Carl Luck that the taxes will rise again. 
 Board Comment 
o John RabbiƩ expresses that the board should be involved in preliminary meeƟngs for
new hires. John RabbiƩ suggests having Julie Belliveau come to a future meeƟng to 
discuss job descripƟons.
o Brian Laﬀond suggests having Nate Cramer come to the next meeƟng in November . 
There are some quesƟons regarding what services Nate provides. 
o John RabbiƩ inquiries about a discussion that will take place during the execuƟve 
session.
ADJOURN TO EXECUTIVE SESSION – MoƟon to Adjourn, enter into ExecuƟve.
MoƟon by Sarah Cammer to adjourn and enter into execuƟve session at 9:14 PM, seconded by John 
RabbiƩ.
MoƟon to adjourn to enter into execuƟve session and not to return to open session aŌer the execuƟve 
session and were entering execuƟve session under purpose 7 to comply with or act under the authority 
of any general or special law or federal grant aid requirements quote applicaƟons for abatement or 
exempƟon under this chapter shall accept in proceedings before the County Commissions the appellant 
tax board or court of the Commonwealth be open only to the inspecƟon of the assessors the 
commissioner, the depuƟes, clerks, and assistance of either the assessors or the commissioner and such 
other oﬃcials or designated private auditor of the Commonwealth which is chapter 59 secƟon 60 of 
MGL and that’s the law being cited.