===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG  
BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA 
         
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2023 
6:45 PM             
 
LIBRARY ROOM, EAGLE HOUSE 
25 Memorial Drive 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are 
welcome to attend this in-person meeting.  Please note that while an option for remote attendance 
and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or 
terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law.  
Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for 
in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
To Participate Remotely:  
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://zoom.us/j/7663167607 or  
From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 766-316- 7607 #  
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to 
speak after joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to 
speak. 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Law Meeting Law, please be advised that this 
meeting will be recorded and can be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel 
(http://www.youtube.com/user/LunenburgAccess/videos) within 24 hours of the meeting.    
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may 
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent 
permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
OPENING PUBLIC COMMENT  
 Board 
 Public 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 Approve Minutes of:  
 May 4, 2023,  
 May 16, 2023,  
 June 6, 2023,  
 June 29, 2023,  
 July 18, 2023,  
 August 1, 2023,  
 September 27, 2023 
 Review and Approve Expense Vouchers and Payroll 
 Status Report from Interim Principal Assessor  
===PAGE 2===
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 Regular Meeting Schedule and Next Meeting Dates 
 Community Meeting to update public on Q3 & Q4 Property Tax Bills 
 Insert to be included in Q3 Property Tax Bills  
 Outreach 
 Seniors  
 Veterans 
 Lake Group(s) 
 Other  
 Building Value Policy.   
 Discussion – Add Seasonal Use Cottage  
 Off ground construction, no central heat, etc. 
 Other 
 Community Meeting to update public on Q3 & Q4 Property Tax Bills 
 Insert to be included in Q3 Property Tax Bills  
 Other Outreach. 
 
FUTURE AGENDA TOPICS 
 Review and Approve Senior / Veterans Exemptions 
 Review and Approve Chapter Land Exemptions 
 Software – Xembly discussion 
 Policy Establishment / Review 
 Land Value Policies / Propose Criteria. (i.e.:  
◦ Topography 
◦ Waterfront Quality 
◦ Rights of way, Roadway, etc.  
◦ Other) 
 Building Value Policies / Propose Criteria. (i.e.:  
◦ New Categories  
 Data Storage. (i.e. Reason for previous approval of abatement)   
 Document Control  
 
CLOSING PUBLIC COMMENT  
 Public 
 Board 
 
ADJOURN TO EXECUTIVE SESSION – Motion to Adjourn, enter into Executive 
Session and not to return to Open Session after exiting Executive Session.   
 
Enter executive session under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements".  
 
"Applications for abatement or exemption under this chapter shall, except in proceedings before the 
county commissioners, the appellate tax board or a court of the Commonwealth, be open only to the 
inspection of the assessors, the commissioner, the deputies, clerks and assistants of either the assessors 
or the commissioner and such other officials or designated private auditors of the Commonwealth."  
CH59 S60 of MGL is the law being cited.  
 
ADJOURN 
 