===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
June 10, 2024
LOWER LEVEL, RITTER BUILDING
960 MASSACHUSETTS A VENUE
Present members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt, Principal 
Assessor Lynda McQuade, Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
- Board
Brian Laffond states that during executive session if a member recuses 
themselves, they should be excused from the room. This will be the process going
forward. John Rabbitt disagrees and believes as a member of the community you 
always have the right to voice your opinion. Brian Laffond disagrees as this is 
only for executive session purposes. A member may decide to participate in 
deliberations and abstain, but if recused, must vacate the room.  
The Board received a message from a citizen that was reviewed last week in 
executive session. They were concerned that interpersonal relationships in the 
neighborhood were not good. John Rabbitt assured the individual that no 
information is ever shared with anybody. There was a discussion about the 
topography of this individual’s neighborhood. John Rabbitt voiced his opinion 
that the resident goes to the ATB and plead their cause.  Brian Laffond states that 
deliberations in executive session are not for public consumption and that it’s not 
appropriate for anybody to share any information on what is deliberated.  Sarah 
Cammer suggests that if a resident has a question, they should schedule to come 
into executive session to ask their answer. The Board can then discuss among 
themselves.
- Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
- Status of Abatement and Exemption Applications. Other items as needed.
Lynda McQuade states there are 3 abatements left. 2 of those houses are 
scheduled for inspections. The other home did not provide their contact 
information and hasn’t responded to the documents left at their door. If no 
response is received by August 16th their abatement will be denied and no action 
needs to be taken. 
===PAGE 2===
Lynda McQuade and Rena Swezey are working on completing the new 
construction, adding the information to Vision, and completing inspections. 
Lynda McQuade provided LA-19 Equalized Valuation Report to the Board per 
request of Heather Lemieux. The equalized value is produced by law every 2 
years and has been a variable in distributing some state aid accounts and factors 
into determining county assessments and other costs. The town gets reimbursed, 
and the amount of aid received is based on these numbers. Sarah Cammer 
confirms that these numbers must be created to determine at what level each 
community is at for state aid. The numbers and sales to assessment ratio are 
reviewed to determine the estimated full value.
Rena Swezey and Lynda McQuade met with an attorney for the State, Jim 
Crowley, at a conference. He answered many questions, explained exemptions 
and what needs to be adopted.
CURRENT BUSINESS
- Review and Approve Minutes of June 03, 2024. Minutes of Executive Sessions of May 
20, 2024, June 03, 2024.
There was a motion to accept the modified minutes from June 3, 2024, by Sarah 
Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
There was a motion to approve the executive session minutes from May 20, 2024 
& June 3, 2024, by John Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
- Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
===PAGE 3===
The approved and processed real estate abatements and motor vehicle excise 
abatements were signed.
- Update on Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, charge)
There is a meeting scheduled for Friday via Zoom. This meeting will mainly be a 
meet and greet.
Sarah Cammer has been in contact with 1 potential realtor and has contact 
information for another. 
- Brief Status of Roll out of Website- Test Plan, Release Schedule
There were a few changes made to the website and work is still ongoing. 
Brian Laffond requests that John Rabbitt provide a discussed document with the 
pointer. 
POSTPONED TOPICS
- Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar.
- Update status of investigation regarding Exemptions: including 17C, 22,37, 41C, (and 
potential 41D).
- BOA Policies
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
- July 22,2024
- August 19, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
- Public
There were no comments from the public.
- Board
Sarah Cammer suggests adding exemption 18 to the list of exemptions to 
investigate.
Rena Swezey states there is a Committee in Leominster through the Council on 
Aging that helps people determine if residents are eligible for any exemptions and
helps fill out abatements. 
EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was a motion to suspend open meeting and enter into executive session not to return to 
open session after executive session by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. Roll call vote.
The meeting closed at 7:33 PM.
===PAGE 4===
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION – Suspend open meeting and enter into Executive Session, not 
to return to Open Session after exiting Executive Session. Motion to enter executive session 
under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements". 