===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MAY 6, 2024
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer Clerk John Rabbitt, 
Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
Absent: Principal Assessor Lynda McQuade
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:33PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
John Rabbitt questions if there are any services that we offer to help people with their 
abatement. Rena Swezey says no, and the abatement must be in their own words and 
the office needs to remain impartial. Brian Laffond confirms that residents are 
welcome to come to the office to get the provided paperwork and Rena Swezey will 
provide the resident with a copy of their property card. 
 Public
          There were no public comments.
STATUS REPORTS FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR
Lynda McQuade and Rena Swezey have been working on 2024 real estate abatements 
and have completed 24 files. Since the last meeting Lynda McQuade and Rena Swezey 
have completed 6 inspections.
Rena Swezey and Brian Laffond were looking at a property today that had a site index of 
zero. There are a few parcels that have a site index of zero which is not a site index. Rena
Swezey is going to run a report from Vision with all site indexes that are zero to address.
 Status of Abatement and Exemption Applications
The Assessor’s office is still receiving motor vehicle and real estate abatements.
Sarah Cammer questions how long it takes for someone to file an abatement, get 
an inspection, and have the documents provided to the Board. Rena Swezey states
once the inspection is completed the documents are reviewed at the next Board of 
Assessors Meeting. Rena Swezey states the Assessor’s office has 30 days to either
approve or deny the abatement followed by a 3-month period to appeal to the 
Appellate Tax Board (ATB). 
 Omitted and Revised
===PAGE 2===
There were 2 commitments for the board to sign. The first was for personal 
property for the solar project that is under a 20-year agreement with the Town. 
Due to nonpayment this year there was a revised assessment of $21,493. The 
second commitment was a real estate omitted assessment of a house that was 
completed but not picked up. They will be getting a bill for the structure.
 MUNIS Error on bills
 There was some difficulty getting all the bills out in time due to a communication issue 
between MUNIS and Vision. Vision has all the information correct.  Exemptions under 
MUNIS were applied correctly to the bill amount, but incorrectly reduced the Valuations. 
After speaking with the Town Manager there will be another round of corrected bills for 
those affected. These need to be sent out prior to the new estimated quarterly bills being 
sent out on July 1st. 
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of April 22, 2024
The minutes for the April 22nd meeting have not been completed.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, 2 Motor 
Vehicle Excise (MVE) Commitments, MVE Abatements, etc.
Commitment number 9 of 2022 totaling $77.98 was reviewed and signed.
Commitment number 2 of 2024 totaling $285,816 was reviewed and signed.
Motor vehicle abatements totaling $10,623.24 were signed. 
 Review and Approve Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, 
charge)
Sarah Cammer put together a brief outline for the Board to review. 
Brian Laffond suggests reaching out to the people who were looking to volunteer 
to get confirmation. 
Brian Laffond suggests between 8 and 10 neighborhoods be created. 
Neighborhoods should be no smaller that ~ 400 parcels and no larger than 1200-
1500 parcels.  
Once completed, a copy of the drafted document will be sent to our representative
from DLS to review. 
Rena Swezey is going to contact local towns to get their neighborhood counts for 
comparison. 
This may be an 8-to-10-week process and Sarah Cammer will make up a potential
calendar with dates.
===PAGE 3===
Sarah Cammer will make an announcement at the next Select Board meeting 
stating the Board is looking for volunteers to be on the neighborhood review 
team. 
The team should consist of:
- Board of Assessors member (Sarah Cammer)
- A lake resident
- A non-lake resident
- An active Realtor 
- Outside Assessor (Rena Swezey)
The Board intends to have the members identified by the next meeting.
 Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar
The Town Manager proposed a baseline calendar that the Board intends to use as 
their format. There is also a recommend baseline calendar that DLS provided. 
 Update status of investigation regarding Exemptions: including 17C, 22,37, 41C, (and 
potential 41D)
The Town Meeting passed the suggested change in amendments for the age and 
the amount for the exemptions for the elderly under 41C. Brian Laffond wants to 
review all exemptions in the next coming months and have this completed by 
October. 
John Rabbitt wants a better understanding of 41A thus he will be researching that 
exemption.
Brian Laffond will research 41C and 41D for possible recommendations.
 Status of Roll out of Website
o Design Improvements: Insuring Links are Active/Current, Test Plan, Release 
Schedule
John Rabbitt has routinely been meeting with Kara McCarthy. Her suggestions 
include consolidating emails. There have been roughly 15 changes to the website 
per week.
Process for Potential Content: e.g. Assessors Office Organization Chart, “Work 
Breakdown Structure”, “FAQ’s from Citizen’s Questions”, Assessing Calendar, 
etc. All new content should be vetted by the entire Board before implementation.
John Rabbitt provided a printed-out draft to the Board for review and discussion. 
Sarah Cammer suggests reducing some of the topics as it is overwhelming. 
Rena Swezey recommends adding the tax information on the main page.
===PAGE 4===
John Rabbitt and Kara McCarthy have added a link that brings you to the meeting
videos under the agenda and minutes link. 
John Rabbitt will consolidate and confirm the Board’s changes before asking Kara
McCarthy for further changes.
John Rabbitt suggests creating a site map.  
FUTURE TOPICS
 BOA Policies
John Rabbitt looked into information about open meeting laws and disagrees with 
the policy. John Rabbitt suggests creating a big list of topics and adding them to 
all agendas in case a specific discussion occurs. Brian Laffond states if you bring 
up a topic at a meeting we can communicate at the next meeting once the topic 
has been added to the agenda. Sarah Cammer likes the policy and agrees that if 
it’s important enough that we need to write about it to each other then it’s 
important enough to say we need to make this an agenda topic.  Brian Laffond 
suggests if John Rabbitt has a suggestion or a way to have this run differently then
he should run it by Town Council and then return to the Board with that info.
There have been several “emergency” requests from Attorneys for signatures on 
non-standard documents.  When an abutters list is requested, the Assessors have 
10 business days to respond.  Brian Laffond suggests adopting a similar policy for
response to requests for signatures.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Brian Laffond proposes meeting once a month for July and August. 
 May 20, 2024 - Determine June Meeting Schedule
 June 3, 2024 
 June 10, 2024 - Tentatively scheduled.
 July 22, 2024 - Tentatively scheduled.
 August 19, 2024 - Tentatively scheduled.
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
There was no public comment.
 Board
John Rabbitt shares that the pancake breakfast at the Senior Center is being 
discontinued due to lack of attendance.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
===PAGE 5===
There was a motion to suspend open meeting and enter into executive session not to return to 
open session after executive session by John Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer.
The meeting closed at 8:47 PM.
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION – Suspend open meeting and enter into Executive Session, not 
to return to Open Session after exiting Executive Session. Motion to enter executive session 
under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements". 