===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MONDAY , JANUARY 22, 2024
EAGLE HOUSE SENIOR COMMUNITY CENTER
25 MEMORIAL DRIVE, LUNENBURG
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt, Interim 
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey and Town Manager Heather Lemieux.
CALL TO ORDER 
The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
Board Comment
John Rabbitt has a question if the approval of minutes will take place at tonight’s 
meeting. Brian Laffond states that won’t be happening at this meeting and will be 
added to the agenda for the next meeting.
Public Comment 
Carl Luck-50 Sunset Lane- states that all residents will be impacted from the 
problems in 2023. Regarding 2024 tax assessment progress there are a few 
concerns and questions. There is a request to have the data and process be 
completed as transparent as possible so residents can review and prepare potential
questions.  Carl Luck fears that there will be a significant tax increase.
APPOINTMENTS
6:30: Introduction to and Ratification of the Town Manager’s appointment of the 
Principal Assessor, Lynda McQuade
Heather Lemieux presents Lynda McQuade, a candidate for the open position of 
the Principal Assessor and asks the board to ratify tonight. Prior to the meeting, 
Heather Lemieux provided the Board Lynda McQuade’s qualifications, skills, and
credentials.
Lynda McQuade states she has over 20 years of real estate appraisal experience. 
John Rabbitt questions if her previous title was as a Principal Assessor and Lynda 
McQuade confirms that is correct. John Rabbitt asked if she had to outsource 
work due to the office only having 2 employees. Lynda McQuade states she has 
outsourced work for personal property and has used a consultant for commercial 
and industrial services. Lynda McQuade also confirmed that she completes all her
inspections and permits. There is a question about what guide she uses to assess 
properties. Lynda McQuade uses record cards to verify data, quality, condition, 
finished/unfinished basements, number beds/bathrooms, etc. Lastly, John Rabbitt 
asks why she left her prior positions. Lynda McQuade was the Assistant Assessor 
in Westford and the Town Assessor for Boxborough. There were concerns about a 
high turnover rate and stability. 
===PAGE 2===
Sarah Cammer asks what her ideas are in terms of organizing information for 
residents to understand. Lynda McQuade confirms that communication with 
residents is the most important priority. Additionally, Lynda McQuade states she 
is very organized and follows the deadlines on the Assessors calendar provided by
the Department of Revenue.
Motion to ratify the appointment of Lynda McQuade at the recommendation of 
the Town Manger by John Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
NEW BUSINESS
Request For Quote (RFQ) for Personal Property Maintenance and Utility Appraisal. 
Julie Belliveau and Heather Lemieux worked on a proposal for cyclical 
inspections and reevaluation inspections.
Motion to accept the RFQ by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in 
favor. Unanimous vote.
Note: This is for the Cyclical reviews, not the 5 Year Revaluation.
o Review for Errors and Omissions. 
The Board has reviewed the document and found no errors or edits.
MEETING SCHEDULE
January 29th at 6:30 PM at the Bilotta Room in the Town Hall
January 31st at 6:45 PM at the Bilotta Room in the Town Hall.
Mike Tarello from Vision will be in attendance.
CLOSING COMMENTS
Public Comment
Heather Lemieux thanks Rena Swezey for all her help and welcomes Lynda 
McQuade.
Board Comment
John Rabbitt states that he has a list of questions for the upcoming meeting with 
Mike Tarello from Vision.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion to enter into executive session and not to return to open session by Sarah 
Cammer, seconded by Jack Rabbitt.
The meeting closed at 7:17 PM.