===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
September 18, 2024
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer (Zoom), Clerk John Rabbitt, 
Principal Assessor Lynda McQuade
Absent members: Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:40 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
- Board
 Brian Laffond was approached by a member  of the Budget Committee inquiring about 
the split tax rate. It was discussed that a split tax rate would not change the total tax levy, but 
it would change where the burden is distributed. The Committee agree to meet and discuss 
further with the Board.
- Public
 There were no comments from the public. 
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
- Status of Exemption Applications. Other items as needed.
 Lynda McQuade provided the below updates:
 There has been a decrease in motor vehicle excise tax abatements received in the 
past couple weeks.
 A review of the 2022 and 2023 permits has been completed.
 4 abutters lists have been processed. 
 The office has been working on continuing the inspecting of new construction 
properties and building permits. 
 Lynda McQuade attended an Assessing Clerks Conference in North Chelmsford 
last week. There was discussion about new legislation called the Hero Act. This 
would allow veterans with 100% disability rating or if they are unemployable due 
to their service-connected disability to receive a full motor vehicle abatement for 
the entire year for 1 year. This would apply to the 22e exemptions. Currently, 
there are 27 veterans in town that would receive abatements on 1 vehicle. 
 Lynda McQuade provided a copy of her recertification from the Massachusetts 
Assessors Association. 
 An offer was made for the administrative assessing assistant position. Currently, 
Lynda McQuade is unsure if the position has been accepted. If the position is 
===PAGE 2===
accepted the tentative start date is October 22. John Rabbitt shared his disapproval
of the existing interview process. John Rabbitt believes the elected employees are 
bypassed regarding the interview process and voicing their opinion. Lynda 
McQuade confirms that herself, Rena Swezey, and Carter Terenzini completed the
interview. 
The goals for next month include:
 Finalizing the LA4 in Gateway and the FY 25 growth.
 Prepare for the classification hearing in November.
 Prepare for training of the new administrative assessing assistant position. 
Brian Laffond shares that there has been an inconsistency found in the zoning for the 
community. Zoning Building Officials, the Planning Board, and Town Clerk are 
conducting research to determine if the zoning needs correction. 
CURRENT BUSINESS
- Review and Approve Minutes of September 4 and August 19, 2024, Executive Sessions of 
August 19 and July 29, 2024
The approval of minutes from August 19th and September 4th were postponed.
The approval of executive session minutes from July 29th and August 19th were 
postponed. 
- Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
There was an invoice from Vision totaling $2,000 for the interim adjustments was signed.
An invoice totaling $35 for Denise’s business cards was signed. 
Motor vehicle abatements were signed.
- Update on Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, charge)
 Sarah Cammer states that th e review team hasn’t been able to meet. After reviewing  
information, the team is seeing a bunch of properties that are blank.   
Assigning numbers to those properties is a priority and anticipate having those 
completed by November 7th. 
The next step is to look for inconsistencies in the neighborhoods and make 
recommendation to the Board. 
- Finalization of Exemption/Deferral (41A) Warrant Articles for Fall Town Meeting
 The Board requests that 17e be added to the drafted document.  
The Board suggests adding 17e to allow the increase in assets. Lynda McQuade states 
that 17e would increase the asset amounts every year. 
Lynda McQuade confirms that whatever is voted on at November town meeting 
wouldn’t be effective until 2026. 
===PAGE 3===
Last year, there were 21 applications that qualified for 41c. After looking at income, 
social security, and deductions there were 2 applications that did not qualify. 
Sarah Cammer questions if the values previously adopted in 2006 should be written or 
published in the article. Brian Laffond will work on a document and provide it to the 
Board. 
- Suggested Modification of Website
John Rabbitt had no update.
POSTPONED TOPICS
-  Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar.
 There is a classification hearing coming up in early November. 
The Assessors Office needs to complete Interim and submit it to the Department of 
Revenue. The interim needs to be approved by the end of October. The first step is to 
get the LA4 submitted and then submit the new growth which is almost complete. 
- BOA Policies
 John Rabbitt questions if the DLS file has been updated by the Town Clerk. Lynda 
McQuade has a certified and notarized letter from the Town Clerk for Article 32.  
There was discussion about executive session meetings being make public when the 
issue is resolved. Brian Laffond states we need to get them publicized but it’s not the 
priority. 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
- October 2, 2024, at 6:30 PM
- October 16, 2024, at 6:30 PM
CLOSING COMMENTS
- Public
 There were no comments from the public.
- Board
Brian Laffond states he wants to review minutes from prior meetings to get them 
approved and posted. Sarah Cammer is going to review the September 4
th minutes since 
Brian Laffond was unable to attend that meeting. 
ADJOURN
 There was a motion to adjourn by John Rabbitt, seconded by Brian Laffond. All in 
favor.
The meeting closed at 8:11 PM.