===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
JUNE 3, 2024
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt, Principal 
Assessor Lynda McQuade, Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
DETERMINE BOARD OF ASSESSORS ORGANIZATION FOR NEXT FISCAL YEAR
 There was a motion to nominate Brian La ffond as Chair by John Rabbitt, seconded   
by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
There was a motion to nominate Sarah Cammer as Vice Chair by John Rabbitt, seconded 
by Brian Laffond. All in favor.
There was a motion to nominate John Rabbitt as Clerk by Sarah Cammer, seconded by 
Brian Laffond. All in favor.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
John Rabbitt was reviewing the gateway assessment management tool and Sheila 
is still listed. John Rabbitt questions if a form needs to be filled out to update the 
information. Lynda McQuade confirms that Becky Boucher had just sent an email
to update the directory this morning. 
John Rabbitt thanks Lynda McQuade and Rena Swezey for their compassion and 
kindness when dealing with taxpayers.  
 Public
There was a resident in the audience that was looking to discuss an abatement.   
Brian Laffond states this will be discussed once we enter into executive session. 
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of Abatement and Exemption Applications. Other items as needed.
Lynda McQuade states the Assessor’s Office has received 42 real estate and 
personal property abatements and has completed 39. Some of these were reviewed
last meeting, some will be reviewed this evening and a few will be delayed until 
inspections can be done and recommendations made. 
An omitted bill totaling $8,688.42 was mailed out on May 28th for the building 
portion of a newly constructed home that was missed in FY 24.
===PAGE 2===
Lynda McQuade states there has been an unresolved issue relating to the 
responsibility of prelim and actual billing. There is conflict between whether this 
should be handled by the Assessor’s Office or the Tax Collector’s office. There is 
a consultant from MUNIS coming in next Friday, he will be assisting the town in 
the billing process.  Rena Swezey states that in the past the Tax Collector has been
the one who handles the billing. Sarah Cammer questions who usually handles the
billing in other towns. Brian Laffond stated that Lynda and Rena looked into 10 
other towns and found that all but one has the Tax Collector complete billing. 
Sarah Cammer questioned if the Tax Collector bill issue has been escalated and 
Lynda McQuade confirms that the Town Manager is aware. 
Last week interviews were conducted for the Administrative Assessing Assistant. 
There were 4 applicants who were then narrowed down to 2.  A decision is 
expected in the next week.
Lynda McQuade and Rena Swezey have been continuing to review the 102 
building permits from 2022 and 2023 to assure they are all included in Vision. 
The upcoming goals are to complete the 3 remaining FY 24 real estate and 
personal property abatements, review building permits, and work on FY 25 
growth.
Lynda McQuade will be attending the MAAO summer conference from June 24th 
to June 27th in Plymouth. 
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of May 20, 2024. Executive Session May 20, 2024
There was a motion to approve the amended regular meeting minutes by Sarah 
Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor. Executive Session minutes not 
yet available. 
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
 There were no documents to review or sign. 
 Update on Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, charge)
Sarah Cammer states she is still looking for a Realtor to join the Neighborhood 
Review Team. 
A Doodle Poll will be sent to the people who have volunteered to discuss potential
meeting dates. Sarah Cammer anticipates these meetings will likely take place 
over Zoom.
It’s anticipated that this review team will wrap up by the end of summer. The first 
few weeks of meetings will be an intense review of previous information. 
Between weeks 4 and 8 the team plans to review neighborhoods and make 
recommendations.
===PAGE 3===
John Rabbitt and Lynda McQuade will reach out to some Realtors that they are 
familiar with.
 Brief Status of Roll out of Website – Test Plan, Release Schedule
 John Rabbitt wants to have a discussion next week regarding the website. The 
intentions are to get the approval from the Board to take the next steps.
Brian Laffond requested that John Rabbitt send the link to the test site to the 
Board again.  
POSTPONED TOPICS
 Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar.
 Update status of investigation regarding Exemptions: including 17C, 22,37, 41C, (and 
potential 41D)
 BOA Policies
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
 June 10, 2024 
 July 22, 2024
 August 19, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
 There were no comments from the public.
 Board
John Rabbitt is going to be meeting with Attorney Adam Costa to review the 41A 
deferral process and share gathered information. 
John Rabbitt will converse with Attorney Adam Costa to better understand 
communicating without violating any open meeting law privileges. 
John Rabbitt also spoke with Becky Boucher about Clause 41A.  She is only aware 
of 1 Massachusetts town that has adopted the Clause 41A.
According to John Rabbitt, Becky Boucher was unaware of House Bill 3911.  John 
Rabbitt requests Brian Laffond speak to Heather Lemieux about how this is going to 
work. 
Rena Swezey and Lynda McQuade are going to the Worcester County Assessors 
Association meeting on Thursday in Shrewsbury.  Attorney James Crowley, from the
Department of Revenue, will be there giving a presentation about exemptions.  They 
will look into getting up-to-date information, as well as further information on 
House Bill 3911. 
EXECUTIVE SESSION
===PAGE 4===
There was a motion by Sarah Cammer to suspend open meeting and enter into executive 
session not to return to open session after executive session, seconded by John Rabbitt. 
All in favor.
The meeting closed at 7:14 PM.
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion to enter executive session under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements". 