===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
September 4, 2024
SENIOR CENTER, EAGLE HOUSE
25 MEMORIAL DRIVE
Present members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt, Principal Assessor Lynda 
McQuade
Absent members: Chair Brian Laffond, Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 7:10 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
- Board
Sarah Cammer states that Zoom is not working and can’t be utilized for the      
meeting.
John Rabbitt says he was approached by a resident who asked the status of his 
abatement. The abatement was signed off on July 3rd, but they still haven’t received a 
check. Sarah Cammer suggested the resident to contact our tax collector's office/finance 
department as the release of checks is out of the assessor’s hands. Lynda McQuade says 
the Tax Collector will send out the checks and she may be running behind.
John Rabbitt heard that the Assessor’s Office in the future may be 
responsible for generating the bills for exemptions as well as cutting the 
checks for car abatements. Lynda McQuade confirms this is related to the 
billing file and will be discussed further during the meeting.
- Public
 There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR
-       Status of Abatement and Exemption Applications. Other items as needed.
 In the past month:
 - A batch of roughly $10,000 Motor Vehicle abatements were received.
 - 7 abutters lists were completed.
 - The motor vehicle excise tax abatements were up to date.
 - All the Chapter Land Application and all exemption applications 
     have been sent out.
 - Denise McCue started 2 weeks ago, and she has been out in the 
     field completing sketches.
 - Rena Swezey is up to date with deeds paperwork.
 A future project to be completed is adding all the building permits into 
Vision.
 Lynda McQuade states there has been some issues with the excise check billing. The 
===PAGE 2===
Assessor’s Office is now being asked to take the motor vehicle excise tax file. This is not 
what typically has been done in the past. The Interim Town Manager has weighed in and 
requested the Assessor’s Office take the file and upload it into Munis. He also indicated 
that they should be receiving help and assistance with this new task. The board expressed 
concern that this plan removes checks and balances that prevent the person making 
assessments from also creating accounts. Lynda McQuade reported that the DOR rep 
contacted considered this outside of the realm of the Assessor department.  Sarah 
Cammer wants to have a discussion with the full board at a future meeting to make a 
plan, as this was not on the agenda for the evening and would be helpful to do with the 
entire board. The Board suggests drafting a letter for the next meeting to discuss further 
the conflict of interest.
CURRENT BUSINESS
       -     Review and Approve Minutes of August 19, 2024
 Sarah Cammer suggests skipping over the approval of minutes from August 
19th and add them to the next meeting’s agenda.
- Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
 The Board signed the motor vehicle commitments and an invoice for sales
 postcards.
An invoice from RGIS Integration and NearMap Oblique totaling $8,100 was 
signed.
There was an invoice from Real Estate Research Consultations (RRC) relating to 
personal property totaling $10,100 that was signed.
Abatements for a previous commitment totaling $4,006.92 were signed.
- Update on Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, charge)
 The Review Team has been unable to meet but will scheduled a meeting in 
the near future.  Lynda McQuade reported some property index review needs
             to be done for a set of parcels.
- Review of Overlay Surplus
 The Town Manager is looking for a review of what is in the surplus account.
Lynda McQuade and Brian Laffond sat down and figured out the 5-year average 
taking out 2023. The 5-year average was based on 2024, 2022, 2021, 2020, and 
2019. The total from 5 years of abatements granted was $138,981. So far for FY 
2024 $181,726 has been granted for abatements and a set of exemptions. 4 ATB 
cases from 2024 that were estimated to be $20,000 bringing the FY 24 total up to 
$201,726.
Sarah Cammer and John Rabbitt discuss the overlay. Sarah Cammer suggests that 
while it does seem to be reconciled, include the potential liability of senior tax 
work-off as it likely comes out of overlay. Seniors can apply all the way through 
Nov 1 so declaring surplus in the overlay may need to wait until mid to late Nov.
===PAGE 3===
- Warrant articles
Sarah Cammer and Lynda McQuade have only seen the warrant draft for articles 41A and
17F. John Rabbitt states there will be a total of 4 warrant requests.
Lynda McQuade states the DLS database states 41C income limit is $31,500 for single 
person and $39,600 for assets. Under 41C for married is $52,700 and their assets cannot 
exceed $72,700.  After reviewing annual reports, it was determined that the last adoption 
of 41C was back on May 6, 2006.  At the town meeting the income adjustments for single
persons were adjusted to $24,000 for single persons and the asset limits were $40,000 and
married couples to $30,000 and the asset limits were $55,000.  At that time the amount of
abatement was raised from $600 to $750. At the town meeting in May, 2024, the age was 
decreased from 70 to 65 and the reimbursement amount was up to 100% (essentially 
double the State reimbursement) of the exemption. The board discussed that 7 residents 
are not eligible for 41C due to asset limits. They may be eligible for a 17D exemption.  
Lynda will look into it.
The Board edited a draft to create a warrant article to look to adopt 41D. This would 
include a cost of living and adjustment and raise the amount of assets and income people 
are allowed to have and still qualify for 100% of the exemption.
There was a motion to accept the adjusted income and asset limits for Clause 41D as 
amended today by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor. Sarah Cammer
will type the edits and send to Lynda McQuade for submission to the November town 
warrant.
There was a motion by John Rabbitt to accept the modification to 41A consistent with 
General Law 59 Section 5 Mass General Law Subsection 5, seconded by Sarah Cammer. 
All in favor. This will authorize a reduction in annual interest rate accrual of 6% from 8%
on deferred funds. The amendment will be applicable to taxpayers who qualify for 
personal exemptions under Mass General Law 59 Subsection 5.
Sarah Cammer and Lynda McQuade want to contact the Interim Town Manager and 
check with Town Counsel to see if an amount for assets and income can be set and have 
COLA added for 41D and for 17D, E and F. Additionally, The Board wants to see if the 
Town Council can draft the warrant article to adopt 17E and 17F, as it requires 
determining the base value of income and assets to be adopted. Lynda McQuade will 
work on this task.
- Suggested Modification of Website
 John Rabbitt proposes making an amendment to the existing site to 
essentially add a table of contents. The website will stay the same but will create 
a more streamlined approach to finding certain documents.
 Sarah Cammer stressed that there is too much information on the front page 
for residents to easily access the items they need. The front page needs
===PAGE 4===
               to be an overview of the Assessors organization. There is also some worry
               across the Board that the form section brings up every single form in
               Massachusetts. The Board wants to make the website straightforward.
               Board agreed that under the first tab, directly under agendas&minutes, the  
               following tabs would be placed:
1.  Motor vehicle abatement (with a link directly to only the form residents 
will use)
2. Tax abatement forms (with links to only the forms that can be used in 
Lunenburg)
3. Maps
POSTPONED TOPICS
- Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar.
- BOA Policies
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
- September 18, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
       -       Public
 There were no comments from the public.
- Board
 There were no comments from the Board.
ADJOURN
There was a motion to adjourn by John Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
The meeting closed at 9:36 PM.