===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MONDAY , JANUARY 8, 2024
EAGLE HOUSE SENIOR COMMUNITY CENTER
25 MEMORIAL DRIVE, LUNENBURG
Present Members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Chair Brian Laffond, Clerk John Rabbitt, Interim 
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:40 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
Board Comment
Sarah Cammer states that her term on the board ends in May and intends to 
finish serving. If any resident is looking to partake, please apply.
Public Comment
               No public comment.
STATUS REPORT FROM INTERIM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR
Currently, Rena Swezey is the only employee working in the office. Julie Belliveau is 
looking to get someone to come in on a temporary basis to provide help.
Since the last meeting Rena Swezey and Brian Laffond met with CAI and Mike Tarello.   
Rena Swezey states that new neighborhood maps should be coming soon. Mike Tarello 
has made changes and reviewed 127 sales from 2022 and 2023. The results show the 
average sale price in town is $460,000 coming in with a Coefficient of Dispersion (CoD) 
of 7.82%. Mike Tarello requests all the listing for apartment complexes in town.  
Nate Cramer is looking for a site index map and has requested the information from CAI. 
There are 3 employees from Vision currently working in the field.
Sarah Cammer inquiries where the printout for complex number 2 is. Additionally, there 
are questions about condo codes and what some codes are on the site index mean. Sarah 
Cammer will send an email to Rena Swezey with her questions.
John Rabbitt is requesting the monthly emails from the Banker and Trades report that 
identifies all sales in a specific month. Rena Swezey confirms that she has only received 
1 report and will inquire with Sheila Craigen if she has been receiving them. 
John Rabbitt has a question regarding a statement received in relation to the ATB. The 
Board confirms this is only to be discussed in executive session. 
CURRENT BUSINESS
a. Approval of Minutes: December 18, 2023
===PAGE 2===
Edits were submitted by the Board and Brian Laffond will update the minutes 
with the alterations. There was a motion to approve the amended minutes by 
Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
Rena Swezey provided a draft of the executive session minutes that the Board 
needs to review.
John Rabbitt states the minutes from December 4th and December 11th aren’t 
listed on the website. Brian Laffond with speak to Kathy Herrick about getting 
those minutes posted.
b. Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
Aside from the above referenced documents there were 3 invoices from MFS to 
be approved and signed.
c. Review and Approve Exemptions (Chapter Land, Senior, Veterans)
This agenda item is postponed to the executive session meeting on January 29, 
2024. 
d. Status of Community Outreach
 Senior Center (Jack Rabbitt)
The meeting at the Senior Center is tentatively scheduled for early March. 
John Rabbitt has been in contact with Becky Boucher regarding exemption
information. 
 Website Improvements (Jack Rabbitt)
Brian Laffond suggested to John Rabbitt that the rollout of the website is 
not expected to include every piece of materials on the day its launched. 
John Rabbitt wants the information on the website prior to the presentation
in March.
John Rabbitt provided a site map of improvement that they will add to the 
Assessors page on the town website. 
Additional information to be added to the webpage include the Boards 
core values, conflict of interest and ethics statement. 
• “How to Read Your Vision Card” (Sarah Cammer)
Sarah Cammer has created a drafted chart specifically for a single-family 
residence. This draft only includes sample data and should just be used for
format and content purposes. The draft uses percentage scales but for town
purposes it will be changed to price per square foot.
Sarah Cammer proposes a question to the Board about the section labeled 
neighborhoods. It’s confirmed that neighborhoods are already built into 
the site values but the Board will confirm with Mike Tarello. 
===PAGE 3===
Sarah Cammer will send an email to Rena Swezey relating to the 5 
different sets of codes used for land curves.  
o Use of Responses to “extensive citizens questions” as FAQs 
There hasn’t been much progress but there is a brief discussion 
about creating an ad-hoc citizen committee  to assist and 
summarize questions submitted by residents. 
NEW BUSINESS
a. Discuss BOA Position for FY 2025 Budget – Staffing, Education, Other.
The Board agrees that when hiring takes place there should be a request 
for continuing education/certification and funds be made available to attend 
conferences. There was a motion to accept the proposed recommendations by Sarah 
Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. Brian Laffond will discuss further with the Town
Manager. 
b. Discuss Implications of Proposing Exemptions Increases to FY 2025 John Rabbitt 
spoke with Becky Boucher from the Department of Revenue regarding the option of 
41C versus 41C ½ in relation to exemptions.  Rena Swezey states a 41C ½ has a no 
asset limit clause. This discussion will continue at the next meeting.
c. Establish Ad-Hoc Citizen Committee(s) to Aid Board Members
There was an agreement that some projects could include summarizing questions 
to be submitted to the website to create a frequently asked questions section. Sarah 
Cammer will look into other Boards/Committees in town to get additional 
information. Brian Laffond will check with the Planning Board and Open Space 
Committee.
d. Other Goals for Calendar Year 2024 An important goal for 2024 is to create a 
calendar that includes important dates and deadlines. 
FUTURE TOPICS
• Schedule Future Zoom Session for Public Q&A with Nate Cramer
The Board anticipates having Nate Cramer attend a meeting in early      February.  
This will be a public meeting where residents can get answers to their questions. 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULED
 January 22, 2024- Executive session closed to the public.
 January 29, 2024- Note: Town Hall- Bilotta Room
 February 5, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
===PAGE 4===
No public or Board comments.
ADJOURN 
Motion to adjourn meeting by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
The meeting closed at 9:09 PM.