===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
NOVEMBER 20, 2024
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt, Principal 
Assessor Lynda McQuade
Absent Members:  Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS 
 Board
Lynda McQuade states there is a new administrative assessing assistant, Robin 
Nano, and she started on November 12th.
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Classification Hearing, Tax Rate and Motor Vehicle Abatements. Other items as needed.
Below are updates provided by Lynda McQuade
- The office received approval for the LA4, LA5, and interim values for FY 
2025 from the Department of Revenue.
- The state tax rate will be $14.37 per $1,000.
- There have been 8 requests for abutters lists received in the past month.
- 28 motor vehicle abatements have been received.
- Commitment number 6 will be going out within the next week.
Lynda McQuade will start preparing the Y2K file for the tax collector with 
assistance from Vision appraisal and consultant Randy Mercier.
Goals for next month include:
- Continue training with Robin on assessing functions
- Start working on exemptions
- Review chapter land applications
- Reach out to CAI about map updates
Brian Laffond questions if the tax bills will be prepared for January 1st. Lynda McQuade 
is unable to commit to that date as it relies on other departments with MUNIS challenges 
===PAGE 2===
that are beyond their and her control. She confirmed everything from the assessor’s end 
has been completed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of November 6, 2024, October 16, 2024, October 2, 2024, 
Executive Sessions of August 19, 2024
The review and approval of minutes was postponed.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
Commitment number 5 of motor vehicle abatements was signed.
The Board signed a supplemental bill that had a few corrections.
 Assessor Conference at the Senior Center
The conference is scheduled for February 3rd at 1 PM. John Rabbitt is 
currently trying to recruit speakers to attend.
 Review of Classification Hearing
Brian Laffond congratulated Lynda McQuade and Sarah Cammer on the 
classification hearing. Lynda McQuade and Sarah Cammer discuss lessons 
learned and suggest remembering to bring the year to year comparison for the 
different property types to the meeting, so the town can review it, just as we have,
prior to our submission to DOR. Brian Laffond also suggested a spreadsheet 
printout of the property values and the new values by address so individuals can 
review them.
 
During the classification hearing, John Rabbitt asked for a week delay. The Board
had previously agreed to move forward after reviewing the documents Lynda had 
prepared in the meeting of November 6th. There was some discussion about this 
issue and prior issues about John Rabbitt speaking on behalf of himself that 
contradicts what he agreed to at Board of Assessor meetings, as well as rejecting 
edits agreed to in previous meetings.  John Rabbitt stated his intent was to 
improve the work. Members would like improvements to occur during the last 
meeting of the board on the subject, and not afterwards because then no review 
and open meeting discussion can be accomplished. John Rabbitt previously 
requested this discussion happen during the executive session. Brian Laffond 
spoke to Carter Terenzini and town counsel, and they confirmed this discussion 
does not warrant executive session.
The board noted that the final numbers for the classification hearing arrived from 
the Finance department the morning of the hearing, as the department had 
significant issues with MUNIS leading up to the hearing that caused unintentional
and unavoidable delay. The placeholders for the numbers were removed and filled
with the numbers provided by the finance director as they are the purview of the 
finance director. These edits were agreed upon at the Nov 6th meeting.
 
===PAGE 3===
 Acceptance of Exemption Warrant Article from Fall Town Meeting 
 Lynda McQuade and Robin Nano will be making new charts with the new 
exemptions that just passed. Now that the articles have been approved there will 
be documentation on the town website. Lynda McQuade wants to design a 
brochure or a chart.
Brian Laffond questions how we could change the baseline at the next town 
meeting, so COLA is still available. That way the town isn’t always behind. The 
board agreed to figure out how to do this. Sarah Cammer works backward from 
the spring town meeting, which is the first Saturday in May, to consider when this
would need to be resolved. The warrant needs to be closed 6 weeks prior to the 
town meetings, so to do this it will need to be resolved by the end of February.
Lynda McQuade wants to go through the exemptions during the next 
executive session meeting.
 Modification of Assessor Website
 Carter Terenzini has had the Classification Hearing added to the website.
John Rabbitt states he was unable to access the Assessors website. The other 
members of the Board have not been having issues.
POSTPONED TOPICS
 Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar
 BOA Policies
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Upcoming Meetings: December 2, 2024, and December 18, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
 Board
There were no comments from the Board.
ADJOURN
 There was a motion to adjourn by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in 
favor.
The meeting closed at 8:03 PM.