===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
January 8, 2025
RITTER BUILDING, LOWER LEVEL
960 MASSACHUSETTS A VE.
Present members: Chair Brian Laffond, Clerk John Rabbitt, Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
Absent members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Principal Assessor Lynda McQuade
CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 6:33 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
There were no comments from the Board.
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of 2025 Abatement Applications. 8 of 58 update. Other items as needed.
There have been 2 applications for 8 of 58 processes for remediation for 2024 
taxes. Once the abatements for this year are completed the Board will then review
the abatements, including conducting inspections. Once those are completed the 
Board will make any needed adjudications about what changes should then be 
provided to Commissioner of Revenue.
John Rabbitt states everyone has received their tax bills. Residents have 30 days 
to apply for an abatement. Rena Sweezey confirms there have been 3 abatements 
filed.
Rena Sweezey suggests straightening out the site indexes/neighborhood maps and
starting with the lakes.
Public comment- Resident/Applicant has submitted questions in writing to the 
Board. She inquired about the length of days until she received an update or 
answer from the Board. Brian Laffond states there is a plan to decide and hold a 
vote at the next meeting on January 22nd.  It is unclear how long the state will take
to make a decision.
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of December 18, 2024, November 20, 2024, November 6, 
2024, October 16, 2024, October 2, 2024, Executive Sessions of December 10, 2024.
 The minutes will be reviewed at the meeting on January 22nd.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
===PAGE 2===
 There were no documents to be reviewed or approved.
 Assessor Conference at Senior Center Feb. 3, 2025 (Jack)
John Rabbitt has confirmed with Margaret Scarsdale that a new Senior Tax Relief bill
(H-3911) has been approved for the town.  Lou Franco and Tom Alonzo both worked 
on this new tax relief bill.
John Rabbit has been working with Deb Lincoln, Chairperson of the Lunenburg 
Council on Aging, regarding their presentation.
There will be a presentation from Michael-Ray Jeffreys regarding the Senior           
      Housing update.
Brian Laffond provided his edits on the presentation that John Rabbitt completed. 
Please remove all pictures.  He is requesting a copy of his presentation prior to the 
next meeting scheduled for January 22nd with enough time to adequately review the 
document.
 Modification of Website
       There have been no modifications.
POSTPONED TOPICS
 BOA Policies.
 Clause 41 and 17 Assets/income Level Adjustments for Exemptions (Brian)
 Neighborhood / Site Index Review in response to DOR Directives - RFP Consultant 
outline (Sarah)
 Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
 January 22, 2025
 February 5, 2025
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
 There were no comments from the public.
 Board
 There were no comments from the Board.
ADJOURN
 There was a motion to adjourn by John Rabbitt, seconded by Brian Laffond. All in 
favor.
The meeting closed at 7:53 PM.