===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
March 12, 2025
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present members: Chair -Brian Laffond, Vice Chair -Sarah Cammer, Clerk -John Rabbitt, 
Principal Assessor -Lynda McQuade
CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
John Rabbitt shared that Rep. Margaret Scarsdale shared a helpful flyer at the 
circuit breaker conference. This flyer identifies why a circuit breaker is used.
John Rabbitt is also working with the Ledger to get the conference reported.
John Rabbitt has started to develop an Organizational Metrics format for future 
review.
Brian Laffond states the Town Caucus on Monday nominated him for the 1 year 
open position on the BOA.  There is still no nominee for the 3 year position.
 Public
 There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of FY2025 Abatement Applications, Vision Property Record Cards Update 
Issue with CAI. Other items as needed.
 Status of FY2025 Abatement Applications, Vision Property Record Cards Update 
Issue with CAI. Other items as needed.
 Lynda McQuade provided the following updates:
 -2 abutters list were received.
 - An additional 4 exemptions are awaiting approval from the Board
 - To date 126 real estate exemptions have been received.
 - 125 motor vehicle excise tax abatements have been received.
A total of 37 real estate and property abatements have been received. Of that a 
total of 11 have been granted totaling $8,796.66, 9 have been denied, 13 to be 
reviewed tonight in Executive Session and 4 are awaiting additional information.
Approved Sept. 3, 2025
===PAGE 2===
3-chapter land applications were signed. There was a motion to approve the 
chapter land application for Highland Road by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John 
Rabbitt. Sarah Cammer aye, John Rabbitt aye, Brian Laffond aye.
Lynda McQuade states that cyclical inspections begin on March 18th. A letter has 
been uploaded to the website and the police with the representative’s vehicle 
information. Brian Laffond questions why the Board did not approve or have any 
involvement with the letter. This letter will not be mailed to homeowners. The 
inspection includes measuring and looking at the home exterior. If the homeowner
does not want them to enter for an interior inspection that is their decision, and 
they are not required to. The DOR requires cyclical inspections to ensure that the 
property record cards are correct.  We will be notifying homeowners when these 
inspections are expected.
There have been issues linking parcels from Vision to CAI. Currently, the 
office is unaware of how many parcels have been affected.
RE: Chapter Lands (land previously held in Chapter 61): Second Request letters have 
been sent by Robin Nano to property owners of Chapter Lands who have not yet applied 
for this year.  Original deadline was March 1, 2025.  New deadline of April 10, 2025. If 
no response, the land will revert to full valuation.   John Rabbitt suggested a written 
policy.  Brian Laffond stated this is the de facto policy, but agreed we should document 
the policy.  We have also reviewed Chapter Lands for liens as every parcel in Chapter 
should have a lien.
There are several new applications for Chapter Lands.
Motion by Sarah Cammer to approve 8.9 acres on Island Road for Recreational purposes 
(61B).  Second John Rabbitt.  All in favor.
Farm land (61A)  approval delayed: Not eligible until June, 2026.
Lynda McQuade spoke to the DOR representative regarding HERO Act 
abatements. The Town needs to issue a physical bill and subsequently execute an 
abatement in order for the town to be reimbursed by the state.
Goals for next month include:
- Continue inspections
- Track the FY 2026 growth
- Scheduled abatement inspections
- Finalize real estate abatements
- Update FY 2025 chapter land applications in vision
CURRENT BUSINESS
===PAGE 3===
 Review and Approve Minutes of February 19, 2025, October 16, 2024, October 2, 
2024, and Executive Sessions of December 10, 2024, January 22, 2025, and 
February 5, 2025, February 19, 2025.
 There was a motion to approve the minutes from October 16, 2024, by Sarah 
Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
 There was a motion to approve the minutes from February 5, 2025, by John Rabbitt, 
seconded by Sarah Cammer.  All in favor.
 There was a motion to approve the minutes from executive session from February 5, 
2025, for release by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
 There was a motion to approve the minutes from executive session from February 
19, 2025, for release by John Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer.  All in favor.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
There were 2 invoices from CAI that were signed by the Board. $3,000 for support 
renewal and an additional $3,400 for the revision of the maps that were recently 
submitted.
The quarterly renewal subscription for MLS was approved and signed.
Abatements for motor vehicle excise taxes were signed totaling $16,063.18.
 Senior Means Tested Exemption/H.3911 Plan.
Lynda McQuade provided an application. A time will need to be scheduled for the 
Board to vote on income and asset limits.  Additionally, it needs to be determined if 
the average is going to be a single-family home.
 Neighborhood/Site Index Review/Plan in response to DOR Directives Starting Point.
There is a plan in place to get money into the capital plan that will be used to start 
correcting the neighborhood situation that the state mandates to be fixed.
 Status of Homeowner Letter for Issues with Deeds.
Lynda McQuade provided a new letter addressing incomprehensible deeds.  This 
was reviewed by the Town Council and gives the Assessor’s Office the ability to 
send back any deeds with errors.
There was a motion to approve the letter as policy by John Rabbitt, seconded by 
Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
 Assessor Website.
Sarah Cammer is in the process of revising “How to Read your Vision Card”. LA 15 
for 2024 and 2025 needs to be added to the website.
 Tax Billing Issue.
Lynda McQuade spoke to Counsel from DOR, and they referenced a statue that 
===PAGE 4===
states the assessor should not be involved in the collection of taxes. In the past, the 
office receives the data from vision, a file is created and submitted to the DOR. That 
file is then emailed to the tax collector and added to MUNIS.
John Rabbitt proposes having a joint meeting with the attorneys, the Assessing 
Board, the Town Manager, and the Finance Director.
 FY 2026 Overlay.
So far this year the exemptions and abatements total $128,967.40.
Brian Laffond suggests an amount between $175,000 to $200,000. This would 
ensure enough money to support abatement applications and exemptions. There 
was discussion about possible outstanding ATB, none are currently expected.
There is a motion to approve the overlay amount of $175,000 by Sarah Cammer, 
seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
 Clause 41 and 17 Assets/Income Level Adjustment Exemption Warrant.
The warrant is still in front of the Town Council and no response has been 
received.
POSTPONED TOPICS
 BOA Policies.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
 March 19, 2025, April 2, 2025, April 16, 2025.
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
 Board
John Rabbitt spoke to a resident about the deferral process. The applicant has 
completed the circuit breaker and filed taxes with the circuit breaker. They are still 
working with their mortgage holder.
ADJOURN
There was a motion to adjourn the meeting and enter executive session not to return to 
open session after exiting executive session by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt.
Unanimous approval.
The meeting closed at 8:55 PM.