===PAGE 1===
Alternate Proposal I 3601 Transportation 
School transportation is provided for the purpose of transporting students from home to school and 
back in an efficient, safe, and economical manner. Other purposes include the provision of 
transportation for academic field trips in direct support of the curriculum, transportation for the support 
of the co-curricular program (athletics, music, drama, and the like).  
  
Due to limited funds, availability of buses, and need for efficient resource management; transportation 
service is conditional upon submission of an application for said service.  
  
The district will make a transportation application form available by April 1 of each year for 
transportation service in the subsequent school year. It will be furnished via email and on the district 
and school websites. 
  
Families requesting bus transportation shall submit an application by 5PM on May 1st, or the next 
subsequent school day if May 1st falls on a day that school is not in session. In the event that multiple 
applications are received on behalf of a student, only the first application shall be considered. 
  
Pre K 
The Lunenburg School District does not provide transportation for pre-school students unless this 
service is required by a student’s Individualized Education Plan (IEP). IEP-mandated transportation for 
Pre-K students shall be coordinated with administration at the time of enrollment and is not otherwise 
pursuant to the conditions of this policy. 
Grades K-6 
              The Lunenburg School District is obligated by state law to furnish transportation for grades K-6 
who live at or beyond a radius of 2 travel miles from their school. The district offers transportation for all 
students in grades K-6, upon request, in order to maximize the collective benefit of school 
transportation services and ensure safe transportation options for all students. However, requests must 
conform to timelines and standards outlined in this policy.   
a.            Applications received after the deadline will not be acknowledged or confirmed with 
applications that were received on-time. Applications received after the deadline will be placed on a 
waiting list, in order of receipt, and may not be adjudicated or assigned for a period of up to 60 days 
from the date of receipt. Wait-listed applications for grade K-6 students residing outside the 2-mile 
radius may be prioritized. Families should not expect responses to inquiries pertaining to the wait-list 
more frequently than bi-weekly. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Grades 7-12 
              The Lunenburg School District is not required to transport grades 7-12. The district offers 
transportation for grades 7-12 students, upon request, in order to maximize the collective benefit of 
school transportation services and ensure safe transportation options. However, requests must conform 
to timelines and standards outlined in this policy.   
a.            Applications received after the deadline will not be acknowledged or confirmed with 
applications that were received on-time. Applications received after the deadline will be placed on a 
waiting list, in order of receipt, and may not be answered for a period of up to 60 days from the date of 
receipt. Families should not expect responses to wait-list inquiries any more frequently than bi-weekly. 
  
Applications received for new students moving into the district after the May 1 deadline, but at the time 
of student registration, shall be considered without penalty or delay, based on availability of bus seats.  
  
Emergency Bus Applications: In the event of a newly arising condition that necessitates busing of a 
student AFTER the application deadline, the District shall consider such applications in their sole 
discretion. 
  
Outreach: The School District, based on known need, shall conduct individual outreach to families that 
may be unable to complete the bus application form. 
  
Finality of Decisions: All bus application decisions by the School District are final. 
  
Conflict and Severability: Nothing in this policy shall be interpreted as conflicting with state or federal 
law or regulations. In the event that some provision of this policy is deemed unlawful all other 
provisions shall be given their full force and effect. 
 
 