===PAGE 1===
 
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
ATTENDANCE 5100 
ENROLLMENT OF NON-RESIDENT STUDENTS 5103 
SCHOOL CHOICE 5103.01 
 
It is the policy of this School District to admit non-resident students under the terms and 
conditions of the Inter-district School Choice Law (M.G.L. 76:12B) and under the 
following local conditions: 
1. That by the first School Committee meeting in February of every school year, the 
 
administration will determine the number of spaces in each school available to choice 
students. 
2. That by the first School Committee meeting in February of every school year, if 
consideration is being given to withdraw from the provisions of the choice law, a 
public meeting of the School Committee will be held to review this decision. 
3. That the selection of non-resident students for admission be in the form of a 
 
random drawing when the number of requests exceeds the number of available spaces. 
All request for admission will be drawn at that time and an ordered waiting list created. 
Should any non-resident’s selected in the drawing withdraw their application to attend 
or fail to register in the time provided that slot will be open to the next name on the 
waiting list. 
The drawing will take place no later than March 31st. 
FORMER RESIDENTS: Students attending Lunenburg High School in grades 
10, 11, and 12 who move from the community, may continue to be 
enrolled under School Choice 
4. Hardship Cases - Community & Student Welfare: Upon approval by the 
Superintendent of Schools, children of non-resident families may be enrolled under 
school-choice when the general welfare of the student will clearly and significantly 
benefit. 
 
5. Any student who is accepted for admission under the provisions of this 
policy is entitled to remain in the District until graduation from high 
school except if there is a lack of funding of the program. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
The School Committee shall not discriminate in the admission of any child on the basis of race*, color, 
religion, national origin, sex, gender identity, age, sexual orientation, ancestry, athletic performance, 
physical handicap, special need, academic performance or proficiency in the English language, or 
pregnancy and pregnancy related conditions. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employment or 
educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, ethnicity, 
age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, pregnancy and 
pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and protective hairstyle and 
any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from discrimination under state or federal law. 
Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate 
behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, or who have otherwise exercised their rights under this 
policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to 
and including expulsion or dismissal. 
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free 
from discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship 
status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic 
information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we 
prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who 
participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
 
 *race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
LEGAL REF.:  M.G.L. 71:6; 71:6A; 76:6; 76:12; 76:12B 
BESE Regulations 603 CMR 26.00 
 
Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 – 
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
 
Updated: April 3, 2013  
Updated & Approved 5-3-17 
===PAGE 3===
Updated & Approved 3-25-20 