===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg High School trip to Greece and Italy (April 13 -20, 2023) 
35 students 
4 chaperones 
5 other adults (parents) 
 
Final cost to students- ranges from $4103-$4554 (depending on when they 
signed up and which level of insurance/protection plan they purchased), plus an 
additional $52 to pay for the coach bus to and from Logan Airport  
 
DAY 1, THURSDAY APRIL 13: OVERNIGHT FLIGHT  
Depart from the USA. 
Delta Flight # 931 from Boston to Atlanta- 9:15 AM (lands in Atlanta at 12:07 
PM) 
Delta Flight # 222 from Atlanta to Athens- 5:00 PM (lands in Athens at 10:35 
AM) 
 
DAY 2, FRIDAY APRIL 14: ATHENS  
Welcome to Athens. Meet your ACIS Tour Manager and begin to explore the 
bustling Plaka. (D) 
DAY 3, SATURDAY APRIL 15: ATHENS  
Greet the day with a guided sightseeing tour that reveals the glories of ancient 
Greece. Ascend to the top of the Acropolis and visit the iconic Parthenon, 
which dominates the city and stands as a powerful and impressive memorial 
to the remarkable civilization that built it. Then view the Agora, followed by a 
stroll through the Acropolis Museum, a modern architectural jewel. The 
afternoon is yours to explore more at your own pace. Tonight you'll be 
thoroughly entertained by a Greek cultural evening 
===PAGE 2===
 
 in a traditional village setting. Taste freshly pressed olive oil, watch a tzatziki making 
demonstration, dine on authentic taverna cuisine and feast your eyes and ears on professional 
dancers moving to the traditional music. An expert also teaches you the steps of traditional 
Greek dances so that you can join in the fun! (B,D) 
DAY 4, SUNDAY APRIL 16: OVERNIGHT FERRY  
Today drive to mystical Delphi, home to the great oracle of Apollo. Explore the 
Archaelogical Museum of Delphi and visit the Temple of Apollo, whose ruins 
date from the 4th century BC. Then continue to Patras to board your overnight 
ferry. (B,D) 
DAY 5, MONDAY APRIL 17: SORRENTO  
Awaken amidst the waters of the Mediterranean as you cruise toward Italy. 
Land and travel through the olive groves of the southern region to Pompeii. 
With a local guide, explore the ancient city left perfectly preserved after Mount 
Vesuvius' eruption engulfed it in ash in 79 AD. Then continue to the stunning 
Sorrento region for the night. (B,D) 
DAY 6, TUESDAY APRIL 18: RO ME 
This morning enjoy an excursion to the fabled island of Capri where you can 
enjoy picturesque views of the sea as you wander through twisting lanes and 
shop in the tiny artisan stores that line the square. Afterwards drive north to 
Rome and immerse yourself in a city rich in history and culture as you begin to 
explore its fountains, Baroque façades and charming piazzas. After dinner join 
your tour manager for a stroll through the lively Piazza Navona and to gaze up 

===PAGE 3===
at the magnificent Pantheon, at once an ancient temple and functioning 
Roman Catholic Church. (B,D) 
DAY 7, WEDNESDAY APRIL 19: ROME  
Rome is called “The Eternal City” because the ancient Romans believed that 
no matter what empires rose and fell, Rome would endure forever. Today's 
panoramic drive of the city is a great introduction to the many phases of 
Roman history. Our local expert accompanies you through the Vatican 
Museums, including the Sistine Chapel, and St. Peter's Basilica. The best part 
is that these are timed entrances, meaning you'll breeze right by the long lines 
facing other tourists. Then go inside the iconic and historic Colosseum with a 
local guide (another line-avoiding timed reservation) and learn the many 
stories of this nearly 2,000-year-old Roman landmark that's considered one of 
the architectural wonders of the ancient world. (B,D) 
DAY 8, THURSDAY APRIL 20: DEPARTUR E 
Depart for the USA. 
 
Delta Flight # 113 from Rome to Boston- 10:30 AM (lands in Boston at 1:55 
PM) 
 
 
I don’t have hotel information as of today, but I will probably have it by March 
15th if you need it. 
 
 
 