
Action Plan
 Communication &amp; Operations
Priority 1: Improve operational efficiencies, including communication within the district between administration and teams of faculty and staff; with families and with the community, in order to improve shared responsibilities to meet student needs, decrease time spent on clerical tasks and management, and increase time spent on innovation and instructional leadership, including allocation of resources and reorganization of roles and responsibilities.
Established/Completed
Received two-way radios from a police grant and developed protocols for use. 
Safety Team meetings regularly throughout the year.
New documents created for the district: Professional Planner, Additional Paraprofessional Supports Procedures, Notes from the Whiteboard, Student Athlete Handbook, Captains Handbook
Updated Special Services Procedure Manual 
New and revised online communication tools: Revised District/school websites; created new special services webpage for teachers and one for families; athletics scheduling website, Lunenburg Public schools facebook page, Lunenburg School Committee Facebook page, Twitter Accounts
School Handbooks now have a common template which includes a table of contents with hyperlinks to sections
Substitute handbook 
School Committee agendas and materials for each meeting are posted on the district website
PACSAL and PTO meetings are posted on district website
Knights’ Roundtable provides information on schools/programs on local cable access channel; also posted on district website
Written communications monthly from Superintendent : Blue Knights Highlights &amp; Spotlights; from Principals via weekly emails; from AD via seasonal athletic newsletters; school articles posted in Lunenburg Ledger
Moved fee payments to RevTrak to reduce handling of checks and cash (COVID safe practice)
Piloted EMOTE as an Social Emotional Learning (SEL) communication tool (not adopted)
Piloting SNAP for school clinical counseling staff; training provided
Adopted a data archiving platform for 2021-22
Piloted District Advisory Council
Final Forms in use for Athletics
Preseason athletic meetings for coaches, parents and athletes 
AD, IT Dir, Facilities Dir explored an alternative to Schooldude
Established a new protocol for reimbursement
Training meetings with principals, secretaries, class advisors- Protocol for Reimbursement
Revised form for fundraising approval
Reviewed all school schedules; made adjustments to ensure blocks of time dedicated to subject areas (K-5) and common planning time
LMHS added another block to be frozen in the drop rotation schedule of LHS so that grade 8 students can take Algebra 1 with grade 9 students
Implemented Docusign for warrant signatures
Administered a communication survey to staff, students, and families and analyzed results
Created a written chain of communication; posted on the website and in school handbooks
Redistribution of clerical tasks and cross training at Central Office; secretary manuals completed
Transitioned all “back-to-school” forms, transportation and registration packets to digital format; posted on website
Coaches handbook, custodial handbook, employee handbook created or updated

Project Manager: Dir of HR/Finance

Action Item
Outputs
Responsibility
Timeline
Progress
Conduct a technology audit

Multi-year plan to address identified need
Business Manager

Facilities Director

IT Director
2022-2023
Preliminary information is being gathered on the systems with the hope that a new Network Administrator will be hired and develop priority spending plan
 
The district consultant provided a first draft of the District audit, including help desk service, network security, policies and upcoming projects.  The plan provided priority recommendations for the district.     

Create a Schedule Committee to explore scheduling models for LMHS
Recommended changes, if any
Plan for implementation of changes
LMHS Leadership and staff
2022-2023
Department Heads, admin and LMS leadership meeting and discussing master schedule. Formal committee to meet in March 2023


LMHS scheduling committee created and met on 4-10 to discuss opportunities in the master sche3dule. Will meet 2 more times and into the 2023-24 school year.
Implement  PowerSchool Human Resource module Phase 1 (PD portion); begin preparation and planning for Phase 2 




Scheduled and executed staff training in the HR module

Inputs and preparation for rollout of Phase 2 of HR module completed


Superintendent’s Office/Business Office staff
2022-2023
Adm team have met to discuss the specific modules which will be adopted as well as assigning tasks

The Business Office staff has been working with the new module - converting “paper” data in the employee database.
Add text messaging to communication methods
Use School Messenger text message feature as an additional means of communication with staff and families

Update Communication Plan (written overview of who, how, when of school and district communications) when text messaging is added; update Chain of Communication if needed
Superintendent’s Office staff
2022-2023
SchoolMessenger text feature has been added to our communication platform.
Continue to communicate with and engage families to better meet students’ needs
Shared individual assessment data

Shared home-school connections (new Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (HMH) math and literacy curriculum)

Respond to parent inquiries regarding how to support students at home (specific strategies to close gaps or enhance learning)

Shared video presentations of the on-going work across the district

Family nights at school (Literacy, Math, Science, etc)

Important messages to the PAC bulletin

School-based family Zoom forums (MCAS/iReady assessments, etc)
Teachers, administrators
2022-2023
JH: PACSAL met via Google Meets on 11/15/22, 1/10/23, 3/14/23 - posted on webpage - link to agenda: 11/15/22  1/10/23 3/14/23

AS:  AS:  iReady Reports sent home to all families following fall and winter benchmark.  MCAS results sent home fall.  Zoom drop-in meetings with assessment report presentations, results interpretations, and intro to new curriculum held for families in each building after receipt of reports.

Communication provided to families regarding accessing new Into Reading and Into Math curriculum assessment data and resources for their student.

STEM night hosted at Primary, math night, and literacy night being planned for THES and Primary.

HMH Family Assessment and Resource Communication sent to families by email.

Family curriculum letters sent home for each K-5 ELA and math module and curriculum corner updates provided to families.

Sample family connections letter

Primary Fall Assessment &amp; Curriculum Report

THES Fall Assessment &amp; Curriculum Report

LMS Fall Assessment Report 

LHS Fall Assessment Report

STEM Night Meeting Notes

STEM Night Flyer

STEM Night Pictures
Zoom Drop-In for MCAS results, iReady results and new curriculum held Oct. 6 (Primary), Oct. 24 (THES), Oct. 25 (LMS), and Oct. 27 (LHS)

THES Zoom Drop–In Announcement



Winter Zoom drop in held for Primary and THES on Feb. 15th and for LMS on Feb. 16

THES STEM Night in March
Primary Literacy Night April 13

LMHS i ready results zoom drop in weekly email  for both LMS and LMHS . List of students who are struggling with communication log on who has communicated home. Meetings with any student/ family in danger of not graduating.

Continue to create or update  written procedures/protocols





Written procedure for: 
creation of clubs
payment of stipends
accident reports 
request of carryover of accrued time

To be incorporated in Employee Handbook and Professional Planner if appropriate

Communication Plan, create and update as needed
HR staff
2022-2023
Procedures are being developed to be included in the Employee Handbook.

Employee Handbook is completed and is being formatted. 

Communication Plan created and provided to families (Fall 2022)

The Employee Handbook is complete and has been made available to staff.
Continue to transition forms for staff use from paper to digital form
Online forms posted to secure staff website
Superintendent’s office
2022-2023
Staff forms will be converted to online forms in the PowerSchool HR module this summer.
Create a paraprofessional mentor model
Paraprofessional union approves of proposed mentor model
HR Office
2022-2023
Adm had first meeting with the  Paraprofessional group to create a program.

The paraprofessional mentorship model is nearly negotiated with the Paraprofessional Executive Board; anticipated start date for School Year 2023/204. 
Implement new daily morning and weekly friday email/newsletter communications from school administration to faculty &amp; staff
Sample communications
Building administrators
2022-2023
JH: weekly “What’s Up? Wednesdays” newsletters sent to Special Ed. teachers.  Here’s an example.
Morning messages sent out to staff by the AP daily in each school
All requests for communication of community events now distributed from the Superintendent’s Office as COMMUNITY NEWS

Administration also sends out weekly staff newsletters


LMHS daily communication with staf e mail for both LMS and LHS Continue with weekly e mail as well as a staff newsletter.


