===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS 3000 
 
TRANSPORTATION             3600 
 
TRANSPORTATION:  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES             3601 
OF THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
 
 
The purpose of school transportation is to get pupils from home to school and back in an 
efficient, safe, and economical manner.  Other purposes include the provision of transportation 
for academic field trips in direct support of the curriculum, transportation for the support of the 
co-curricular program (athletics, music, drama, and the like). 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not provide transportation for pre-school students unless this 
service is required by the student’s Individualized Education Plan (IEP). 
 
Pursuant to state law and regulation all students K-6 living more than 2 miles from school are 
entitled to bussing.  The Lunenburg Public Schools will bus all K-6 students upon submission of 
a Transportation Form.  State law does not require bussing of students Grades 7-12, but the 
Lunenburg Public Schools will bus these students based on space availability and the submission 
of a Transportation Form. 
 
Transportation Form: 
 Families wishing for their students to be bussed shall submit a Transportation Form for 
each student seeking bussing by the deadline date, May 1. Failure to submit a Transportation 
Form by the deadline will result in the student being placed on a waiting list in order of receipt. 
 Because of the complexity of bus routes, students on the waiting list may not be assigned 
a bus seat for up to 60 business days following the late Transportation Form submission.  
Families should not expect a wait list update more frequently than once per two weeks. 
 Should the number of grade 7-12 applicants exceed the number of available seats, the 
district will determine bus assignment on a first come, first served basis. 
 Transportation Forms received for new students moving into the district after the May 1 
deadline, but at the time of student registration, shall be considered without penalty or delay, 
based on availability of bus seats.  
 Additional procedural details will be found  in the Lunenburg Public Schools 
Transportation Form Procedure available on the district website. 
 
Emergency Transportation Forms: 
  In the event of a newly arising condition that necessitates bussing of a student AFTER 
the Transportation Form deadline, the district shall consider such Transportation Forms in their 
sole discretion. 
 
Outreach: 
 The School District, based on known need, shall conduct individual outreach to families 
that may be unable to complete the Transportation Form.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Finality of Decisions: 
 All Transportation Form decisions by the School District are final. 
 
Conflict and Severability: 
 Nothing in the policy shall be interpreted as conflicting with state or federal law or 
regulations.  In the event that some provision of the policy is deemed unlawful all other 
provisions shall be given their full force and effect. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 