===PAGE 1===
Strategy for Continuous Improvement Revised October 2021 1 
 
Vision 
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to its values of attending to the personal well-being of its 
students, providing quality instruction at all levels, and promoting life-long learning for all. 
Theory of Action 
If we are committed to continuous learning and put the needs of our students first, then our educators will be 
leaders in the field and our students will become confident and capable life-long learners. 
Strategic Objectives Strategic Priorities 
Transforming Teaching and Learning: 
To modernize teaching and learning by 
establishing effective teams of educational 
leaders to accomplish the essential work for 
transforming practice, and hiring and developing 
excellent educators who are continually learning 
and adapting practice to meet the needs of all 
students. 
Priority 1: Establish effective teams to lead the 
essential work of teaching and learning, including 
development of high-quality, rigorous, relevant and 
enriching curricula, with a priority focus on literacy and 
social-emotional learning; identification and 
communication of expectations for demonstration of 
high-quality teaching and learning competencies; and 
implementation of effective instructional practices, 
interventions, communication, and professional 
development. 
 
Priority 2: Establish a districtwide rigorous and multi-
phased hiring process to recruit, select, develop and 
retain highly skilled, student-centered teachers and 
administrators, and other personnel with the capacity to 
contribute to the forward progress of the organization. 
 
Priority 3:  Create a model of high-quality professional 
development where teachers teach teachers and the 
district facilitates regional professional development to 
optimize professional education opportunities for staff. 
Cultivating Climate & Culture: To create 
a culture that values data use and continuous 
learning in a climate that is safe, caring, and 
inclusive and reflective of our core values. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Priority 1: Foster a climate of safety, caring and 
inclusivity for all in our district through secure facilities 
and safety training, evidence-based social emotional and 
mental health curricula, and building strong staff-
student relationships. 
 
Priority 2: Foster a culture of learning and data use 
where students, faculty, staff and administrators analyze, 
synthesize, and apply knowledge and skill to work 
collaboratively to solve problems, think critically, and 
adjust practice; learn collaboratively from each other 
and from mistakes; engage deeply in reflective practice; 
and justify allocation of resources needed to ensure a 
high-quality interactive deeper learning experience with 
appropriate levels of support and challenge for all 
students. 
 
Priority 3: Ensure that the district has one clear set of 
core values and the messaging of those core values is 
consistent across the community and reflective of the 
culture we seek to establish. 
  
Priority 4: Ensure that each school is developing or 
maintaining a positive school climate for staff and 
students that fosters safety, promotes a supportive 
===PAGE 2===
Strategy for Continuous Improvement Revised October 2021 2 
 
 
environment, and encourages respectful and caring 
relationships. 
Communication & Operations: To 
improve operational efficiencies, including 
communication within the district and with the 
community, in order to decrease time spent on 
management and increase time spent on 
instructional leadership.  
Priority 1: Improve operational efficiencies, including 
communication within the district between 
administration and teams of faculty and staff; with 
families and with the community, in order to improve 
shared responsibilities to meet student needs, decrease 
time spent on clerical tasks and management, and 
increase time spent on innovation and instructional 
leadership, including allocation of resources and 
reorganization of roles and responsibilities. 
Equity, Access, & Achievement for All 
Students: To ensure all students are provided 
equal access to a quality education, providing 
them the appropriate support and challenge so 
that they can become skilled life-long learners. 
Priority 1: Implement tiered systems of supports to 
meet students’ social, emotional, behavioral and 
academic needs so that they can access and find success 
with all facets of a well-rounded education; academics, 
athletics, activities, and leadership. 
 
Priority 2:  Evaluate the current status of equity across 
the district, including continuity and consistency of 
practice and process, and outline appropriate actions 
necessary to improve equity, access, and opportunity for 
all students so that they may realize their fullest 
potential. 
Strategic Foundation: Attainment of our Strategic Priorities and Vision is dependent upon staff embracing 
the opportunity for teacher leadership, engaging in and seeking out professional learning opportunities, 
believing that we educate the whole child and have an obligation to create a learning environment that 
meets all student needs and provides equal opportunity for all students. 
 