===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Public Schools Resolutions 
WHEREAS, Teachers mold future citizens through guidance and education. Teachers spend 
countless hours preparing lessons, evaluating progress, counseling and coaching students and 
performing community service; and our community recognizes and supports its teachers in 
educating the children of this community. Therefore, be it resolved that the Lunenburg School 
Committee proclaim May 6 th-10th, 2024 to be NATIONAL TEACHER APPRECIATION 
WEEK; and May 7th to be NATIONAL TEACHER APPRECIATION DAY. 
 
WHEREAS Principals are expected to be educational visionaries, instructional leaders, 
assessment experts, disciplinarians, community builders, public relations experts, etc.   
Entrusted with the education and development of young people, the most valuable resource; 
principals set the academic tone for their schools and work collaboratively with teachers to 
develop and maintain high curriculum standards, and set performance goals and objectives for 
schools to achieve educational excellence.  Therefore, be it resolved, in honor of the service of all 
principals, and to recognize the importance of their school leadership so that every child has access to a 
high-quality education, the day of May 1, 2024 is hereby designated in Lunenburg to be NATIONAL 
PRINCIPALS DAY.  
 
WHEREAS Assistant Principals play a pivotal role in helping students succeed in school by fostering the 
academic success and well-being of each student through communication and building relationships.  
Furthermore, assistant principals play a key role in working collaboratively to provide guidance and 
support to teachers and Principals.  Therefore, be it resolved, the Lunenburg School Committee declares 
that the week of April 1-5th as NATIONAL ASSISTANT PRINCIPAL’S WEEK. 
 
WHEREAS, school nurses support the health and educational success of children and youth by 
providing access to care.  The school community celebrates and acknowledges the 
accomplishments of school nurses and their efforts of meeting the needs of today’s students by 
improving the delivery of health care in our schools and offers gratitude for the district’s school 
nurses, who contribute to our local communities by helping students stay healthy, in school, and 
ready to learn. Therefore, be it resolved that the Lunenburg School Committee proclaims May 
6-12, 2024, to be SCHOOL NURSES WEEK and strongly encourages all members of our 
community to join with it in personally expressing appreciation to our nurses for their 
dedication and devotion to their work. 
 
WHEREAS, Paraprofessionals play a vital role in the successful operation of our school district; 
and the dedicated and valuable contributions of  all the fine people who fill these important 
positions are integral to the successful daily operation of our public schools.  Therefore, be it 
resolved that the Lunenburg School Committee proclaim April 3, 2 024, to be 
PARAPROFESSIONAL APPRECIATION DAY. 
 
WHEREAS the staff of the District’s school meals and nutrition department are committed to 
providing healthful, nutritious meals  to the District’s children; and  the men and women who 
prepare and serve school meals help nurture our children through their da ily interaction and 
support.  Therefore, be it resolved that  the Lunenburg School District expresses its deep 
appreciation to these valuable food service employees and commends their good work on behalf 
of children the day of Friday, May 3, 2024 as SCHOOL LUNCH HERO DAY.  
 
WHEREAS Administrative Professionals in the Lunenburg Public Schools play key roles, bear 
many responsibilities and are crucial to the efficient functioning and smooth running of day-to-

===PAGE 2===
day operations as they assist educators, principals, students and parents.  Therefore, be it 
resolved that ADMINISTRATIVE PROFESSIONALS DAY be observed on April 24, 
2024. 
WHEREAS, our custodians are constantly responsible for all Lunenburg Public School facilities; 
they are the first employees to arrive in the morning and the last employees to leave at night; and 
their contribution is critical in allowing for the smoot h daily operation of the school. Therefore, 
be it resolved, The School Committee of the Lunenburg Public Schools on behalf of all students 
and personnel, does hereby proclaim the day of October 2, 202 4 as  CUSTODIAN 
APPRECIATION DAY  for Lunenburg Public Schools, urging all parents, students, and 
employees to join in congratulating all custodians for jobs well done and in saying thank you. 
WHEREAS coaches represent stability, consistency, and direction in the lives of many athletes. 
A coach is a friend, a mentor, and an advocate that helps demonstrate to athlete’s teamwork, 
discipline, and a healthy attitude toward competition.  Therefore, be it r esolved the designation 
of October 6, 2024 , as NATIONAL COACHES DAY to raise public awareness about the 
important and significant role that coaches play in the lives of millions of people in the United 
States. 
WHEREAS school bus drivers are required to undergo extensive training to improve their 
knowledge and skills as a way to ensure the safety and well -being of students . The position of a 
school bus driver requires tremendous responsibility in transporting Massachuse tts students 
through inclement weather conditions and various traffic situations. Therefore, be it resolved, that 
the Lunenburg School Committee proclaims April 23, 2024  to be SCHOOL BUS DRIVER 
APPRECIATION DAY  and strongly encourages all members of our co mmunity to join in 
personally expressing appreciation to our bus drivers for their dedication and devotion to their 
work. 
WHEREAS, it is important that all citizens know and understand the problems, duties and 
responsibilities of their police department, and that members of our department recognize 
their duty to serve the people by safeguarding life and property, protecting them against 
violence or disorder, and protecting the innocent against deception and the weak against 
oppression or intimidation.  Therefore, be it resolved proclaim the week of May 13th 2024 to 
be NATIONAL POLICE OFFICERS WEEK.   
Adopted this third day of April, 2024 
 
Signed: 
 
Chair, Lunenburg School Committee 
 
Attest: 
Superintendent, Lunenburg Public Schools 
