===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg High School
 Handbook
1079 Massachusetts AvenueLunenburg, MA 01462978-582-4115  FAX 978-582-4153
                                                    Lunenburg Public Schools                                                                  
Mission:  We provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for lifelong learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.
Vision: The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to its values of attending to the personal wellbeing of its students, providing quality instruction at all levels, and promoting lifelong learning for all.
Core Values● Quality education cultivates creative problem solving, independent thinking, and multiple points of view.  ● Effective education addresses the whole child, involves authentic engagement, and provides multiple pathways to success.  ● Students must be provided with an academically and personally safe environment that promotes effective learning.● Students should be provided with opportunities to develop initiative and responsibility which will help them become active and supportive community members.
  

===PAGE 2===
● Focused, sustained professional development and reflective practice are fundamental to excellence in teaching. ● Strong collaboration and open communication among school staff, students, families, and the community develop mutual respect and trust, and enhance students’ ability to succeed.● Resourcing decisions should be responsible, address critical needs, and put students first.
Beliefs about Learning● Take responsibility for academic growth through reflection, risk- taking, and accountability● Spark a passion for learning and creativity by providing a stimulating environment that is challenging and empowers students to follow individual pathways through varied learning opportunities● Foster an environment of mutual respect and personal integrity as demonstrated through words and actions● Students are held to clear, rigorous, and reachable expectations by providing opportunities to demonstrate learning at high levels● We draw from life experiences to make connections within, and beyond, the classroom
Dear Students and Parents /Guardians of Lunenburg High School: 
Welcome to the 2024-2025 school year! 
It is a wonderful time of year when students and families are returning from vacation and looking forward to the beginning of another school year. At Lunenburg High School we strive to provide a challenging and meaningful curriculum that can be accessed by all students with the guidance and instruction of our talented faculty. 
One of our goals at LHS is to ensure students have a safe and nurturing school environment where students can learn and grow. In order to achieve this goal, we have created the Lunenburg High School Student/Parent Handbook. The Handbook encompasses the core values and beliefs of our school community and contains rules, expectations, procedures, and policies that govern Lunenburg High School. Please review the Handbook so you are familiar with its content. 
As members of our school community, we expect students to adhere to the expectations set forth in the handbook. We also expect students to be active members of a safe community and feel comfortable reporting incidents to any adult in the building so that it can be quickly and fairly addressed.  The adage if you see something say something helps in building a healthy environment. 
We are proud to be a part of Lunenburg High School and are looking forward to an outstanding school year that strives to make all students feel safe and secure in our school building as well as on our playing fields, buses, and bus stops.  Please take a moment to sign the acknowledgement form that informs us you have read the handbook.
  
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
Timothy Santry, Principal    Karma Tousignant, Assistant Principal     Yanina Burns, Assistant Principal         
School Committee Members
                                                  Carol Archambault- Chair                                                         Brian Lehtinen-Vice-Chair                                                                      Laura Brzozoski-Secretary                                                     Anthony Sculimbrene- Member                                                         Peter Beardmore-Member
                     Regular meetings are held on the first Wednesday of each month beginning at 6:30 PM at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, and the third Wednesday at the LMS Collaborative Room, D132. Special meetings or changes to meetings will be posted in accordance with public meeting law.
                                       
                                                
  
===PAGE 4===
Table of Contents     Lunenburg Public SchoolsTable of ContentsTranslation AvailableLunenburg High School AdministrationAdministration DirectoryCentral Office / Superintendent of SchoolsLunenburg High SchoolLunenburg Middle SchoolTurkey Hill Elementary SchoolLunenburg Primary SchoolSchool Support OrganizationsExtracurricular ProgrammingEnrollment & AttendanceSchool CommunicationBuilding Safety & SecuritySchool and Student ServicesHealth ServicesScheduling & GradingFood Service/CafeteriaExtracurricular TravelTechnology and Library/Media CenterDisciplineFeesPoliciesPublic ComplaintsSchool Support OrganizationsAPPENDIX AAPPENDIX BAPPENDIX CAPPENDIX D
  
===PAGE 5===
Translation Available
If you need translation of any information in your native language, please contact Julianna Hanscom at (978) 582-4100 X5213
Si vous nécessitez une traduction de ce document dans votre langue maternelle, veuillez contacter Julianna Hanscom au (978) 582-4100 X 5213
Si se necesita este documento traducido al español, favor de llamar a Julianna Hanscom, al número (978) 582-4100 X 5213
                               Lunenburg High School Administration     
                           Timothy SantryPrincipal(978) 582-4115                                                                                                        Karma TousignantAssistant Principal(978) 582-4115  
Yanina BurnsAssistant Principal (978) 582- 4115
 Tina CooneyAdministrative Secretary(978) 582-4115  ext. 2100                  Sandra SheehyHS Secretary(978) 582-4115 ext. 2102
   School Advisory Council Members
Tim SantryTBDKarma Tousignant
  
===PAGE 6===
Jessica FrankJeff DionneBrandon KibbePeter BeardmoreMariah Comesana
                                             Administration Directory                                               
Central Office
Superintendent of Schools Dr.Kate Burnham(978) 582-4100 X5211  Kate BurnhamTitle IX Coordinator    Director of Finance & Administration                                                                                Susan Gilson(978) 582-4100                      Director  of        Special Services                                     Julianna Hanscom (978) 582-4100 X5213                                                                             Director of Facilities                                  and Grounds                               Eric Hevy           978-582-4100 X5231               Director of Teaching & Learning Annica Scott(978) 582- 4100 X5216                                                                         Food Service Director                                                                                   Nadine Lorenzen                                                                (978)582-4100 X5226
  
===PAGE 7===
Director of Community/                                                                  School Programs  Patricia McCarthy-Guillette (978)582-4100  X5220                                                                                     
Lunenburg High School1079 Massachusetts Avenue,Lunenburg, MA 01462                                (978)582-4115  LHS                                (978)582-4710  LMSMr. Timothy Santry, Principal 6-12Ms.Karma Tousignant, Assistant Principal 9-12Yanina Burns, Assistant Principal 9-12
Ms. Tina Cooney, Administrative SecretaryMs. Sandra Sheehy, Secretary LHS
        Ms. Lisa Lavery, Nursing Coordinator
Ms. Stacy Canfield, Social WorkerMs. Lori Shea, School Psychologist
Ms. Patricia Foster, Guidance, Secretary/RegistrarMr. Jeff Dionne, Guidance Counselor 9-12Ms. Gail Okerman, Guidance Counselor 9-12Mr. Jon Ciullo, Guidance Counselor 9-12Ms. Mary Young, BCBAMs. Lori Shea, Psychologist
Lunenburg Middle SchoolMr. Timothy Santry, Principal 6-12Mr. Robert McGrath, Assistant Principal 6-8Ms. Mona Bowen, Secretary LMSMs. Elizabeth Schiata, School NurseMs. Jenn Fletcher, Guidance CounselorMs.Meaghan Thomann, Social WorkerMs. Katherine Antaya, Guidance Counselor 
Turkey Hill Elementary School129 Northfield RoadLunenburg, MA 01462
  
===PAGE 8===
(978)582-4110
Ms. Carla Squier, PrincipalMr. John Palumbo, AssistantPrincipalMs. Alicia McAllister, Administrative SecretaryMs. Meghan Marrone, Ms. Heather Bianchi, Nurse, Guidance CounselorMs. Kathleen Lantiegne, Social Worker/Adjustment Counselor
Lunenburg Primary School1401 Massachusetts AvenueLunenburg, MA 01462(978)582-4122
Mr.Chad Adams, PrincipalMs. Gina Kutarnia, Assistant PrincipalMs. Krissy Carbone, Administrative SecretaryTBD, NurseMs. Stephanie Miller, Social WorkerMs. Kaitlyn Mahoney, Psychologist
❖School Hours:Lunenburg High School’s start time is 8:00 a.m.  No student should arrive at school before 7:45 a.m. or after 8:00 a.m.  Students are not allowed in the building before 7:45 a.m. unless supervised by a teacher.  Regular dismissal time is 2:30 p.m., and early dismissal time is 11:30 a.m.  Unless a teacher has requested a student to remain after school or the student is participating in an after-school activity, all students should leave the building and grounds promptly at dismissal time.  
❖After-School Hours: Students are required to leave the building and school property when school is dismissed, unless supervised by a faculty member. Students are encouraged to stay after school to meet with teachers or to participate in an authorized activity. In all instances, students must be supervised by a faculty member to ensure their safety. Students must make arrangements for transportation home or parents may give written permission for a student to walk.
❖Office Hours: An automated answering system will be in effect to serve your needs. A complete list of voicemail box and extension numbers is provided on the website.Office hours are 7:00 AM to 3:00 PM. The office staff can help with any problem or question concerning school.  Please make every effort to avoid calling school to give messages or speak to students unless it is an emergency. 
  
===PAGE 9===
                                              School Support Organizations                                                   
❖Parent/Teacher Organization(PTO)http://www.lunenburgpto.org
❖Parent’s Advisory Council for Special Achievers in Lunenburg (PAC/SAL)https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services/pacsal
❖School Advisory Council
For further information about any of these organizations, please contact the School Principal, access the link listed above, or review the information at the end of this handbook.  
Extracurricular Programming                                                    
❖Social Events: All school rules are in effect for all school-sponsored social events whether  held on or off school grounds. Students should check with the sponsoring advisor and register guests in the main office before bringing guests from outside of school, as some events are open only to Lunenburg students. In order to participate in school-sponsored events, students must be present for a full day of school on the day of the event.
❖National Honor Society - The National Honor Society is an organization open for membership to students with a minimum grade point average (weighted) of B+ (87) throughout their high school years. Students may apply for membership in their junior or senior year.  Those seeking membership must possess distinct qualities of school citizenship, service, leadership, character, and desire to encourage betterment for all students in the high school community. Students must apply for membership and provide evidence of the personal qualities required for admission to this organization. Once inducted, National Honor Society members are subject to the rules and bylaws contained in the National Honor Society handbook.  
❖Student Council:  The Student Council consists of five elected members from each class.  The Vice President from each class as well as the five members of the Student Advisory Council are also members of the Student Council.  Its purposes include but are not limited to the following:1. To propose to administration and plan school-wide activities involving as many students as possible (e.g. homecoming)2. To coordinate and support the activities of classes and school organizations (e.g. school elections, student government training workshops, class dances, fundraisers, etc.)3. To constitute that representative group which serves as liaison between students and administration4. According to state law, a Student Advisory Council consisting of five members composed 
  
===PAGE 10===
of students elected by the student body of the high school shall meet at least once every other month, during the months school is in session, with the School Committee. All registered LHS students who are academically eligible may run for office.  Elected students are those five receiving the greatest number of votes in a general election by the student body.  The members of the SAC are considered ex-officio members of the Student Council and therefore will be expected to attend all Student Council meetings and be bound by all Student Council policies and regulations.● Students who wish to share new ideas, concerns, or suggestions should contact a Student Council representative or attend a regular meeting.  The Student Council is always pleased to welcome any member of the student body or faculty.
❖Class Officers:  In the spring, the incoming freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior classes elect student officers (president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer) and five student council representatives to assist in managing affairs of the class.❖Class Dues:  Class dues are collected to support and supplement class sponsored activities such as homecoming, class trips, dances, etc. Each fall the class officers, together with the class advisor, shall propose an amount as dues to be paid by each student by the end of the first marking term.  All such financial obligations must be cleared to participate in class events and graduation.  In cases of genuine financial hardship, alternative arrangements can be made by administration. 
❖Extracurricular Activities
Examples of extracurricular activities may include, and not limited to:
1. Math Team 13.  Mock Trial2. National Honor Society 14.  Anime club3. Best Buddies 15.  Art Club4. French Club 16.  Community Service Club5. Class Plays 17.  Renaissance Club6. GSA (Gender Sexuality Alliance18.  Jazz Band7. Spanish Club 19.  Marching Band8. Homecoming events 20. World Hunger Task Force9. Outdoor Adventure Club     21.  S.A.D.D 10.Latin Club 22. Literary Magazine11. Science Club 23. MIAA Sports/Athletics12. Big Sibs
Eligibility  For  Extracurricular  Activities
1. To be eligible to represent Lunenburg High School in interscholastic sports, in co-extracurricular activities, clubs, organizations, to hold office, or to participate in any activity, a student must pass at least five courses, and at least one of those 
  
===PAGE 11===
grades must be a C- or higher.2. To maintain eligibility at Lunenburg High School for athletics and extracurricular activities, full time students in the Dual Enrollment Program must stay enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits each semester at LHS and pass all four courses with one at a 2.0 or higher. In the circumstance where a student is enrolled in courses both at LHS and through Dual Enrollment, eligibility requirements will be outlined in the Dual Enrollment Contract signed with the school counselor.  3. Student grades in one term/quarter  are used to determine eligibility for the subsequent term/quarter. A student not meeting the standards because of incompletes is ineligible until the new grades are recorded in the office to meet the standard.  If declared ineligible, a student shall remain so until report cards are issued for the following marking term/quarter.4. Eligibility for the first term/quarter  of each school year is determined on the basis of the previous year's final yearly averages, not the last quarter's grades. A student must pass full year or semester courses that equal five full credits in order to be eligible for the first term. A failed course taken and passed in summer school may restore eligibility. One of the passing grades must be a C- or better.5. Promotion from grade eight to grade nine automatically makes a student eligible in September.6. A student may be declared ineligible or removed from extracurricular activities by the building principal for serious or repeated violations of school regulations.  7. The Athletic Director and/or LHS administration may remove a student from an elected or appointed leadership position for serious or repeated violations of school rules.  8. Students participating in all LHS extracurricular activities are expected to abide by the MIAA Chemical Health Rule: During the season of practice or play, a student shall not, regardless of the quantity, use, consume, possess, buy, sell, or give away any of the following: a beverage containing alcohol, any tobacco product, any marijuana product, steroids, or any other controlled and/or illegal substance. It is not a violation for a student to be in possession of a legally defined drug specifically prescribed for the student’s own use by his/her physician.9. The minimum penalties are:A. First Violation: When the Principal confirms that a violation has occurred, and following an opportunity for the student to be heard, the student shall lose eligibility for the next 25% of consecutive interscholastic events.  No exception is permitted for a student who becomes a participant in a treatment program.  It is recommended that the student be allowed to remain at practice for the purpose of rehabilitation. Please note that, for offenses that occur in the summer or between seasons, the penalty will be assessed during the next season or semester.B. Second and subsequent violations: The student shall lose eligibility for the next 60% of consecutive athletic events. The full policy can be found under “Resources” on the MIAA website. The school administration will decide the 
  
===PAGE 12===
equivalent penalty for extracurricular activities.
❖Fundraising Policy:  Realizing that school, community, civic and social organizations are frequently requesting permission to use the schools and their students for solicitation of funds, the following policy is now in effect:1.  School-sponsored or related organizations, such as band, athletic groups, booster clubs, classes, and clubs will be allowed to conduct fundraising activities, as long as approved by administration.2. Non-school organizations will not be allowed to solicit funds in school under any circumstances or to use students in the school for such activities. Exceptions to this rule will only be made with explicit permission of the principal and/or School Committee. 3. It must be understood that this policy is of a general nature and an attempt to set a standard for all Lunenburg schools. If the need arises for a more specific interpretation or exceptional or emergency circumstances arise, exceptions and clarifications of this policy can be made by the School Committee.
   Policy 1303.3 Approved May 1, 2019.pdf
                                             Enrollment & Attendance                                                          
❖Attendance & Make-Up WorkRegular attendance is essential to sequential learning. Students improve academic performance with improved attendance. It is important that students are punctual and attend school except when absence is unavoidable due to illness or emergency. Please see Section 5101.01 below of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Absences & Excuses) for more information. 
LHS Attendance Policy:  It is the policy of the Lunenburg School Committee that classroom activities constitute the heart of the educational process.  Time lost from class can never truly be regained.  In particular, the important benefits derived from teacher explanations and from the interaction among students and between teacher and student cannot be replaced.  Demonstrations, laboratory exercises, oral presentations, and debates are particularly difficult to make up outside of the regularly scheduled class.  Not surprisingly, studies have shown a correlation between grades attained in class and attendance at school.  Generally the more class time missed by a student, the lower the grade; therefore, the intent of the following attendance policy is to encourage better student attendance so that each student can acquire the necessary skills for future success.   
Parents are encouraged to plan family vacations during school vacation time.  Absences for family vacations during school time are not excused absences.
https://drive.google.com/file/d/11Dp36DfWPvpZbzDfBbVGxg0KKEoZiMTQ/view
  
===PAGE 13===
LHS Attendance Procedures
A.Attendance is taken during the first block by classroom teachers.
B.Students are expected to attend school every day. Absences for all or part of a school day may be excused only if they meet certain specific criteria, which include:
● Observance of religious holidays● Educational trips not school-sponsored. The request for an educational trip must be approved in advance by the school principal.● Health care.  Absences for a portion of the school day may be excused for medical or dental appointments that cannot be arranged after school hours.● Illness. When a student is absent as a result of contracting communicable disease, the student may be required to submit a physician’s note upon returning to school.● School visitations that have been approved in advance by the guidance counselor/principal ● Court appearance● Death in the family, family emergency, special family events (i.e. weddings, graduations, etc.)
C.Excused AbsencesDocumentation requesting/substantiating an “excused absence” must be submitted within three (3) days of the student’s return to school. In the case of five (5) or more consecutive days of absences, students must return with a physician’s note documenting illness/reason for absence. This physician’s note must be presented at the front office when the student returns to school. Students are considered officially absent if they have not reported to school prior to 11:30 a.m. If a student is dismissed prior to 11:30 AM and does not return to school, they will be marked as “dismissed absent”.
D.In the case of extenuating circumstances, parents may request an exemption from this attendance policy.  Such requests will be evaluated by the school administration.
E.   Parents must call the school by 8:20 a.m. if their student is going to be absent     from or late to school.  If a student is absent and the parent does not call the school, the School Messenger system will contact the parent by 9:30 a.m. as a reminder to call out your child.  You will not receive telephone calls from the school secretary.  This is part of our child safe policy to ensure the safety of all students.  Notes regarding reason for tardiness or absence must still be submitted upon the students return to school (see item C above)
  
===PAGE 14===
❖Class Absences:  A student enrolled in a class is expected to be present each time the class is in session. The minimum attendance for credit in a course is at least 90% of the class meetings. In terms of maximum class absences allowed:➔ Yearlong classes               18 Classes➔ Semester Long Classes     9 ClassesTeachers will record all absences in PowerSchool on a class-by-class basis.
❖Student Absences and Make-up Work: It is the student’s responsibility to see all teachers from classes that are missed to find out what work is due. It is also the student’s responsibility to see that missed assignments are completed on time and handed in to the teacher.
1. Absence does not excuse students from their academic responsibilities. Make-up work is required for all students who are absent.2.  Students are responsible for arranging with teachers to make up work missed.  In the case of a student's absence of two days or longer, it is the parents’ responsibility to contact the high school teachers via email to request make-up work.  See the lunenburgschools.net website for a complete email directory.3.  Absence does not change the due dates for long-term assignments. (Long-term assignments are those that are assigned one week or more prior to the due date.)4. Teachers will make every effort to assist students who need extra help.5. All make-up work must be completed in accordance with the stated makeup policy of the individual teacher. Any work not made up by the student will result in a zero.6. Students who are truant from school will not be allowed to make up work missed. 7. Students who cut a class may not be allowed to make up work missed.
Please see Section 5206 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Instructional Program: Homework) for more information.
❖Attendance Review1.  When a student receives a 50% warning letter, a parent must set up an attendance       meeting with an administrator to review absences.
2. Students who exceed the maximum absences allowed in any class may not receive     credit for the course. Determination will be made on a case-by-case basis pending the results of an attendance review meeting. Credit may be earned by attending and passing an approved summer school course.
3.  All absences count toward the maximum class absences allowed pending the review process. (See explanation of review process.)
4. The maximum absences allowed for seniors during the last quarter may not exceed five days. (ABSENCE DURING A DOUBLE BLOCK PERIOD COUNTS AS TWO CLASS 
  
===PAGE 15===
ABSENCES)
**Note: The last day for seniors must be no more than 12 days from the last day of school for all students.
❖Review Process:  The attendance review committee will review all special cases of absences each semester and may approve additional absence exemption for:
·        
Family emergencies
·        
Chronic illness
·        
Extraordinary circumstances
·        
School-related absences
·       
Hospitalizations
·     
  Diagnosed medical or mental health conditions 
If by chance the school fails to notify the parents about class absences, the student is still responsible for the accrued absences. A parent or guardian may write to the assistant principal and ask for an appeal of credit loss due to excessive class absences. The decision of the attendance review committee is final.
❖Attendance Appeals:  The parents of students who wish to appeal loss of credit may request a hearing before the Attendance Review Committee by submitting a request in writing to the assistant principal within 30 days of receipt of the loss of credit letter. The parent and student must appear before the committee during the appeal hearing. Failure to appear at the scheduled hearing time will result in forfeiture of the appeal.   Parents and students are welcome to present documentation of mitigating circumstances during the hearing.   Minutes of the proceedings will be recorded.  The committee will notify the parent of its decision in writing within five days of the hearing. Appeals hearings will be scheduled at least one week before the end of first and second semesters.  Senior appeals will be scheduled at least two weeks prior to graduation.
❖Restoration of Credit for Attendance Appeals:  Students who appeal the loss of credit will receive one of the following rulings:1. Restoration of credit without conditions assuming the student maintains a passing grade.2. Conditional restoration of credit. Students must meet specific academic and behavior guidelines outlined by the committee to regain credit.3. Denial of credit restoration. Students must take the course again at LHS or in summer school.
  
===PAGE 16===
Tardies/Dismissals
❖Tardies:  Students are tardy to school if not present in class when the school bell rings at 8:00 a.m.  Students reporting after 8:30am must bring a note from a parent/guardian or have a parent/guardian call the student in tardy. When tardy, students must report to the office to sign in immediately upon entering the school.  Students will be marked tardy by their teacher if they are tardy for class, advisory, or study hall.  Students who are less than 20 minutes tardy to class will receive one-half class absence. If they are more than 20 minutes late they will receive a full class absence. Students are expected to be on time for school every day. Upon a student’s third tardy per term, he or she will be assigned disciplinary consequences from the administration.  A parent conference with an administrator will be required for those students who continue to have chronic tardiness.
         Students are required to be arrive to school on time and be present in school for the full day in order to participate in any school activity or event, including athletic practice and/or games. The LHS Administration and/or Athletic Director can make exceptions for extenuating circumstances.
Students who have not reported to school prior to 11:30 a.m. are considered absent for the day.  11:30 a.m. constitutes half the school day. 
 Students who have an unexcused tardy for class will be marked for a one-half class absence and after five such occurrences are subject to office detentions. Students that have an unexcused tardy over 20 minutes either from class or to school will receive one full class absence and are subject to office detentions or Saturday detention.
❖Dismissals:  Dismissal from school during the day is to be used only for the most urgent purposes.   Non-emergency appointments should be scheduled outside of school hours.  A student must bring a permission note to the office before school on the day of dismissal.  After verifying the dismissal note with a parent, the student will then be issued a dismissal slip by the office.
Students should present their dismissal slip to their teacher at the beginning of the class from which they are being dismissed, and then sign out in the main office.  If returning, the student will sign in at the main office immediately upon return to the school. This policy applies to all students including those who are 18 years of age.
❖Truancy/Class Cuts:  Students who are truant from school may not be allowed to make up work missed. This includes but is not limited to tests, quizzes, homework and class discussions. In the case of a class cut, students may not be allowed to make up work missed. Students who are truant from school may not participate in or attend any after school co/extra-curricular or athletic activity or event that day.  Students who are truant and under 16 years of age are subject to police apprehension.  A student’s school year may be extended and time on learning will be made up during non-school hours.
  
===PAGE 17===
❖Field Trip Policy:  Field trips provide valuable learning experiences that supplement classroom instruction, but they also create unavoidable class absences in other subjects. Students who miss classes due to a school-sponsored field trip are considered absent from the classes that they miss on that day, which may put them in violation of the attendance policy.   Therefore, they are expected to be fully prepared to participate in every class the day following the field trip.  It is the student's responsibility to see each teacher on or before the day of the field trip, to ascertain what work they will miss.  If a quiz or test is scheduled for the day after the field trip, the student is expected to take it with the rest of the class.  School-sponsored field trips are those that are directly supervised by school staff.   They require a signed "Special Activity Permission Slip" from parents in order for students to participate/attend. Students are not allowed to drive other students on any school-sponsored field trip. Teachers sponsoring a field trip will email all staff prior to the field trip with a complete list of participating students' names. School attendance sheets will indicate (FT) next to the student’s name on the day of the field trip.
❖ Senior Privileges: 
1. Senior Privileges will be awarded only to seniors who have achieved  C- or greater in all classes. Seniors who have not achieved this standard will be assigned to study periods in classrooms. This is reviewed after the end of each quarter.  regularly and any student not passing one or more courses may have senior privileges revoked for a period of time that will be determined by administration on an individual basis.  2. Senior Privileges are only for those students who are in full compliance with the attendance policy as stated in this handbook. Students will have senior privileges removed if found in violation of the school attendance policy or if they have lost credit in a course due to attendance or tardy issues.3. Seniors who have a first-period study hall need not report to school until second period. They must sign in at the main office upon their arrival at school. This also applies to students enrolled in the STEP program. All students must be present for Advisory.4. Seniors who have a study hall at the end of the day may leave school at the beginning of the last period.  They must sign out in the main office before leaving school and may not remain on school grounds subsequent to signing out unless they have permission from a teacher or administrator and have school business to conduct.5. Privileges can be suspended or removed for disciplinary, attendance, or academic reasons.6. Students may not leave the building for a Senior Privilege from any class except study,  and may not  utilize senior privilege more than once per day.7. Additional guidelines for senior privileges may be put in place by administration at the start of the school year, on a trial basis.  All senior privilege guidelines are subject to change.  
  
===PAGE 18===
❖Enrollment/RegistrationParents new to the area and having a child enter the high school should contact the guidance office Central Office Registrar to make an appointment with the guidance staff and to complete registration materials. It is also necessary for the school to obtain the new student’s records from the previous school.Link to Online Registration: Lunenburg Public Schools - Registration 5102 Updated & Approved Enrollment Policy 1-8-20.pdf
❖Withdrawal/TransferWhen transferring a child from our school system to another, notify the office staff as soon as possible.  It is necessary for the parent to sign a form, which will give us permission to forward your child’s records to the new school. All records will be mailed upon request of the authorities of the new school. The withdrawal form can be obtained from the school counseling office in advance of the student's last day of school.  This form must be signed by all subject teachers, the health office, a school counselor, the media specialist, and administration.  Chromebooks and all school books must be returned, and all other student obligations (dues, lunch balances, fees, etc.) must be met before the form is returned to the School Counseling Office.  The signed form must be submitted to the school counseling office prior to departure. 
                                               School Communication                                                             
❖ PowerSchool- This is our district student information system which tracks all student information such as grading & report cards, lunch balances, contact information, fees, etc.  In order to access this information, an account and log in will be created by the school secretary for you. For more information, please review the following document:https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B9UcBKxgqY3Pa3JtMDNlQ1VlU2s/view  
It is important that we have your current contact information in PowerSchool for emergency purposes and in order for you to receive important messages sent by the Superintendent or Principal. If your contact information changes during the school year, please notify the school secretary of this change. 
❖School Cancellations/DelaysThe decision to close school is made by the Superintendent of Schools. The Superintendent consults with the Highway Superintendent, Police Department and Director of Facilities for the schools in order to determine conditions. Student safety is everyone’s concern and current weather conditions, road conditions and weather forecasts are taken into consideration.
  
===PAGE 19===
The practice is to close school only in case of extreme weather conditions or unforeseen emergency; therefore, when schools are in session on stormy days, parents are urged to exercise their personal judgment as to the wisdom of sending their children to school.In certain situations, a delay in the opening of school may be utilized. Delays can be one  or two hours. If there is a two-hour delay, there is no morning preschool or kindergarten. In the case of cancellation or delay, parents will be notified by the School Messenger system. If you do not receive these School Messenger phone alerts, please notify the front office immediately.
Please see Section 1103 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Community Relations: Communications with the Public: Emergency Closings/Delayed Openings/Early Dismissals) for more information.1000 - Community Relations  Updated and Approved 5-3-17.pdf
❖Announcements  All daily announcements except those of an urgent or emergency nature will be read in the morning and at dismissal as necessary. Students are expected to remain quiet and listen attentively.  All announcements must be approved by a member of the faculty or by administration.
❖Address/Telephone Changes: Please inform the office immediately of any change in your address, including post office box numbers, and home or work telephone number. We maintain a list of this information as well as update student emergency forms with new information.
❖Office Telephones:Office Phones:  Student use of the office phones must be limited to emergencies to keep our phone lines available for incoming calls. Personal messages for students cannot be accepted in the main office unless there is an emergency.
Cell Phones:  Students will be permitted to use cell phones in the hallways between classes and in the cafeteria during lunch. Please see page 47 where cell phone usage at other times is discussed.
❖Parent/Teacher Conferences & Open House  
● Parent/Teacher Conference: The school strongly urges parents to become involved in their child’s education. Issues and concerns as well as the sharing of ideas are encouraged. We are always interested in parental concerns and suggestions. If there is a specific problem or issue that pertains to your child’s classroom experience, we urge you to speak directly with that teacher. If it is unresolved, feel free to make an appointment with the principal. We will be pleased to work with you and the teacher in 
  
===PAGE 20===
reaching a mutually acceptable solution.
If you should have a concern regarding a classroom, first notify the teacher involved and arrange for a conference. Arrangements for appointments for such conferences may be made by calling the teacher or team.  If further discussion should be necessary, please call the principal’s office to make an appointment.
● Programs and Activities: Scheduled conference nights, open houses, programs and other activities will be held throughout the year. Each family will receive advance notice. Some of these dates are listed on the all-schools calendar found on the website: School Calendar 2023-2024 (updated 5/24/23)          or the appendices section at the end of this handbook.
❖School Calendar● Professional Development days: Periodically during the school year, students will be dismissed at 11:30 AM in order that the staff may use these afternoons for professional development programs. These programs include meeting to update curriculum and workshops to keep the staff informed of the latest trends in teaching and child development.
                                            Building Safety & Security                                                      
❖Visitors/Volunteers● Visitors:  We welcome visitors to our school. Visitors are required to report to the office, sign in and obtain a visitor's badge. We also request that parents make contact with teachers they plan to visit prior to the visitation as a matter of courtesy. For safety reasons, no adult is allowed in the building without a badge. After 8:00 AM all doors at the LMHS are locked for safety purposes. Visitors are requested to ring the bell outside the right side of the main entrance, and they will be electronically buzzed into the building. Valid ID may be required.  When a student requests a parent to bring them an item from home, it needs to be left in the office and the student will need to take the responsibility to retrieve it from there. Classrooms are not disturbed to call a student down for this purpose.● Volunteers: For safety reasons, no adult is allowed in the building without a badge. Volunteers perform a variety of important and significant tasks in the school. These jobs enrich academic programs, and they extend the school's ability to meet the needs of all our children. Parent volunteers serve in a variety of areas from library aides to leading after school activities. Please consider volunteering for one of these useful positions by contacting the office.  All volunteers must have an approved CORI form PRIOR to coming into any classroom or chaperoning any field trip.  CORI forms are available in the front office.❖Security Cameras: A surveillance camera system has been installed to enhance 
  
===PAGE 21===
the safety and security of students, staff and community members who visit the school, while diminishing the potential for personal and district loss or destruction of property. The cameras are installed in public areas only, including hallways, entrances and exits to the building and the cafeteria. The camera system will be in operation throughout the year. Please be advised that recorded information will be made available to and used as necessary by school officials and/or law enforcement in accordance with District Policy 3503.01:  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eLftnpgXVL5-We9JRRbZTZZs2hB23_aE/view
❖Emergency Procedures/Safety Crisis Teams:  Teams at all schools have established procedures and guidelines that will be followed in the event of a school related death or tragedy/crisis.  The framework of our plan of action includes the following four stages of grieving:  understanding, grieving, commemorating and moving on.  The Safety and Crisis Team may include the following personnel:  Principal, Guidance Counselor, School Secretary, Teacher Representative(s), School Nurse, and Custodian (when needed).
❖Lockers & Administration Access:  Students will be assigned a locker in which to keep hats, coats, book bags and materials related to school life. Students are encouraged to purchase their own combination locks; please note that keyed locks are not permitted.ockers are registered to individual students. This means that students may not share lockers and that anything found in a student’s locker is assumed to be his/her property. It is expected that students will keep lockers clean and secured at all times.  The school cannot be held responsible for items missing from lockers.  Students should not bring valuables or large amounts of money to school. Students should keep locker combinations private and make sure that locks are properly secured.  Students will be required to provide lock combinations to Advisory leaders.  Items that are not necessary or are illegal are not allowed in school. Lockers will be searched by the principal or assistant principal if there is reasonable suspicion that there is something illegal, dangerous, or disruptive to the operation of the school stored in a locker. Please see Section 5406 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct: Interrogations and Locker Searches for more information: SC Policy 5406 Approved 3-20-19.pdf
❖Transportation:Buses/Drop Off/Pick Up:  Eligible students are assigned to a specific bus. Bus transportation is considered a privilege.  Orderly conduct is necessary for safety.  Students must keep hands and head inside at all times.  Throwing objects out of windows or tampering with any part of the bus is forbidden. Talking in conversational tones while seated, courteous manners, and keeping the bus clean are expected.  Consequences, such as suspension from transportation, detention, and assigned seating, may result from inappropriate 
  
===PAGE 22===
conduct.
Parents should drop off or pick up students using the only Massachusetts Avenue entrance entrance to the school grounds. No student should be dropped off before 7:45 A.M. 
Bicycles: Students must not ride their bicycles in the parking lot area or on the sidewalks before or after school when buses, cars, students, staff, and parents are in the area. Students are expected to walk their bicycles during high traffic times. Bicycles should be kept locked in the bike rack. The school is not responsible for damaged or stolen bicycles or equipment. Students must wear bicycle helmets as required by law and follow the rules of the road. Students who create a safety hazard will not be allowed to ride their bicycle to school.
Vehicle Traffic:  All motorized vehicles should enter the school parking lot from Massachusetts Avenue. State Law does not allow motorists to pass a bus while loading or discharging passengers, even in the school parking lot. A speed limit of 10 mph must be adhered to while driving in our parking areas.
Student Driving and Parking Policy: Students with a valid driver’s license and registered automobiles or motorcycles are permitted to park on the school grounds only in the area designated for students and with a valid parking permit.  A permit application may be obtained from the main office.  The school administration reserves the right to issue a limited number of parking permits to students. Priority will be given to seniors. Remaining parking spaces will be issued to juniors, by lottery if necessary. The following documents will be required with your application:
1.  A photocopy of a valid driver’s license2.  A photocopy of the automobile registration3. A completed application form4. A $50 parking fee (non-refundable in the event parking privilege is revoked)      The use of the parking facilities at LHS is considered a privilege. Certain items may not be transported, stored, or possessed in automobiles on school property, including weapons, illegal drugs and drug paraphernalia, alcoholic beverages, stolen property, fireworks, and/or any other items prohibited by Massachusetts law or school district  policy.  As  a  condition of  the  parking  permit, the  school  administration reserves the right to inspect student cars and personal effects to ensure that such items are not present on school grounds and/or at school sponsored events; otherwise, students’ rights to privacy will be respected.  Students are expected to conduct themselves in an appropriate manner and drive safely.  Students failing to observe any and all regulations will be subject to the 
  
===PAGE 23===
loss of this privilege and inappropriate behavior may be reported to the Lunenburg Police Department for further action. Students may not park in the Thomas C. Passios lots, Brooks House lot, Eagle House lot, or along Memorial Drive. Students who park illegally or students who park after their privileges have been revoked will be subject to towing and school disciplinary consequences. Students may only park in their assigned area(s) and those students who do not have parking permits may not park on school grounds. Parking privileges may be revoked for unsafe acts, school discipline issues, leaving school without permission, chronic tardiness to school, or behavior which results in disciplinary actions that negatively impact the climate and culture of the school.
The following rules are to be observed at all times:1. Lock your car and keep the keys in your possession2. Stay in car when lined up for departure.3. Follow all traffic rules, speed limit (5 mph) and directions for safety.4. No overnight parking.5. Allow buses to exit first.6. All drivers and passengers on campus are required to wear their seat belts.❖Dropped Off Items: Please be aware that when parents drop off an item to the office, the student must be responsible to pick up the item at the office. The office staff cannot call students out of class to pick up anything in the office, nor will parents be allowed to bring items to the rooms while classes are in session.  Every effort will be made to ensure that the items are distributed.
❖ Lost & Found:   In case of loss of personal or school articles, a lost and found is located in the office. Items not collected by year-end will be donated to a charitable organization.
School and Student Services                                                       
❖Special Education Services: Special education and related services are available to students with disabilities within the district. Consistent with federal and state legislation, the district provides a free and appropriate education in the least restrictive environment for identified students. District policy and procedures provide for the identification, evaluation, and placement of students with disabilities. Students are determined eligible for services via a multidisciplinary team process that includes the student’s parents. For more information about the special education process and disability types, go to the Mass Department of Elementary and Secondary Education website http://www.doe.mass.edu/sped/parents.html        
Students may be referred for evaluation, and subsequent disability determination, by any knowledgeable party (including parents) who has reason to suspect that the 
  
===PAGE 24===
student has a disability.
Special Education Identification Process Overview:1. Referral to Student Support Team or Behavioral Health Support Team, parent or teacher 2. Classroom interventions/adjustments3. Referral to Special Education Evaluation Team4. Parent notification and consent for evaluation5. Team Meeting (including parent)6. Development of Individualized Education Plan (IEP)7. Parent consent for placement/plan implementation8. Special Education and related services delivered as per IEP9. Annual review of IEP and progress
❖Section 504/Title II Grievance Procedure:  The administration at each school acts as the building-level coordinator for Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504) programming. The procedure is as follows:
❖ 504 Guidelines and Procedures - 2024_2025 The Lunenburg Public School has adopted an internal grievance procedure providing for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504) or Title II of the Americans  with Disabilities Act (Title II). Both Section 504 and Title II prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability.  Complaints should be sent in writing addressed to the Director of Special Services, Julianna Hanscom at jhanscom@lunenburgschools.net  
❖Student Records: State regulations have been adopted regarding the retention and destruction of student records, including special education records. It is the policy of the Lunenburg Public Schools to comply with all state and federal statutes and regulations regarding student records. Special education records are considered by state regulation to be part of a student’s temporary record. The temporary record contains the majority of the information maintained by the school about the student. The information may include such things as standardized test results, class rank, Individualized Educational Programs (IEPs), student progress reports, assessment/evaluation reports, extracurricular activities, and comments by teachers, counselors and other school staff. By state regulation, the temporary record must be kept by the school district for a period not exceeding seven years after the student graduates, transfers, or withdraws from the district. Before the records are destroyed, the parent and student will be notified and have an opportunity to receive a copy of any information before its destruction. Please see Section 5213 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Instructional Program: Student Records) for more information.https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PePy4z5qTx_oXDLs2xEipNYxFwZh0ugn/view 
  
===PAGE 25===
❖Guidance/School Counseling:  The mission of the Lunenburg High School Counseling Department is to empower all students to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to grow towards their potential in their academic, social/emotional, and career aspirations.  We strive to ensure that all students develop empathy towards others, value the importance of self-discipline, and become life-long learners and responsible community members. Our main objectives are to assist each student in meeting appropriate academic and personal goals and to help them discover personal meaning related to learning and development.
A. School Counselors service students through a combination of individual meetings, small group and classroom seminars, and school-wide or class-specific assemblies.
B. The LHS School Counseling curriculum is aligned with the Massachusetts Model for Comprehensive School Counseling Programs.
C. School counselors are licensed through the DESE.   For students requiring mental health services, our school counselors will refer to the appropriate licensed professionals.
D. Students, parents, and teachers may make an appointment with a School Counselor at any time.  Services and resources are also available to all members of the community. Please contact the school counseling office at (978) 582-4115.
❖ Student Support Teams: Federal, state, and local procedures encourage the utilization of the student support team process for all students experiencing difficulty in school. For additional information, parents should talk to their child’s teacher(s), guidance counselor, or a building administrator.
❖Work Permits:  Students must have a promise of employment/hiring before a work permit can be issued.  The Commonwealth of Massachusetts requires all employed persons under the age of 18 to have a work permit.  These may be obtained from the high school’s main office during office hours year-round.  A minimum of one school day is required for processing.
❖College Visits:  Seniors and second-semester juniors  are allowed up to three excused absences for the purpose of college visits.  Students must complete a “College Visitation Sheet” which is to be signed and approved by the school counselor  before the college visit. After the visit, students must return the  “College  Visitation  Sheet,” signed  by  a  parent  and  college representative, to the main office.  Only when the completed form is received by the main office will the absence be approved. It is the student’s responsibility to be aware of his or her attendance issues prior to going on a college visit.
  
===PAGE 26===
Health Services 
 Federal statute defines School Health Services as those services provided by a nurse or other qualified person. Only treatments that must be completed during school hours are the responsibility of the school system. A physician’s note and parent permission is required for treatments and/or medications that need to be administered during the school day.
Students who have special health care needs are provided ready access to health care services and treatment during the school day as deemed necessary by physician, parents, and other health care providers. An Individualized Health Care Plan will be developed to ensure that those students receive safe, appropriate care during the school day.
The Lunenburg Public Schools presently provide nursing services in each school building. A registered nurse is available to assess students who are ill or injured, provide first aid, administer medications, review immunizations, and perform screening for hearing, vision (Gr. Pre-K – 5, 7 and 10), postural (Gr. 5-9), BMI (Gr. 1, 4, 7 and 10) and SBIRT (Screening Brief Intervention Referral for Treatment) (Gr. 7 and 10).
The Lunenburg School Committee maintains a comprehensive Health and Safety Policy. Please see Section 5700 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Health and Safety) for more information.5000 - Students and Instruction Sections Updated and Approved 6-20-18.pdf
Screening Programs: If a student fails any screening, a notice will be sent to the parent with a form that must be completed by the appropriate doctor and returned to the school nurse in order for the school to follow the doctor’s instructions. Prior to Kindergarten entry, a physician's statement of completed vision screening is required.
Dental Services: Dental exams will be available for Grade K. Cleaning, checkup and fluoride will be available for Grades 2 and 4. On hold due to COVID-19.
Accidents: Injuries on school property should be reported to the nurse. First aid will be administered and appropriate referrals to a parent/physician will be made. Parents should remind their students that even a minor injury, if not properly cared for, could result in infection or further injury.
Dismissal Due to Medical Condition: The school nurse will determine, via professional assessment, those students who should be dismissed from school due to illness or injury.Those reasons may  include, but are not limited to, the following:● Temperature over 100 (oral)● Disruptive cough or cough with fever
  
===PAGE 27===
● Suspected infection of eyes, ears, nose, throat, skin, scalp● Severe abdominal pain or headache● Suspected communicable disease● Suspected pediculosis (head lice; see “Pediculosis” section below)● Suspected fractures or any severe or disabling injury● Questionable need for sutures● Vomiting or diarrhea● Head injury
Any student who is dismissed must be signed out at the office by a parent (or a responsible adult designated by the parent) on the Consent for Emergency Care Form on file in the office. Students are not allowed to use a cell phone/text message to dismiss themselves without consulting the school nurse. All students are allowed to call a parent from the health office if they request to do so.General Guidelines for School Attendance
Temporary Exemption from Special Area Subjects Due to Medical Condition: If your child suffers an injury/condition for which the physician requests that your child NOT participate in a special area subject (ex. gym class) for an identified period of time that is greater than five school days, the physician must put this order IN WRITING. The physician’s order must state the exact period of time that the child will be exempt from the subject.  A parent note will be accepted for a period of time less than five days.
Extended Absences Due to Medical Condition: When a student returns to school following a hospitalization or an accident/injury, the school will need specific instructions from the physician regarding any necessary accommodations to the student’s educational program. This information must come in writing from the doctor to the nurse prior to returning to school.
Pediculosis (Head Lice): Pediculosis is a common problem in school-aged children. Head lice poses no real health risk to the population and is viewed as no more than a nuisance by health care professionals. However, since the condition can be transmitted to others, proper and successful treatment is essential. Our goal is to educate the students and parents on proper identification and elimination of head lice and nits as quickly as possible to minimize interruption of classroom time.
Pediculosis ProtocolAny student found to have evidence of head lice infestation will be monitored by the school nurse.  The school nurse advocates for evidence-based head lice management strategies that eliminate exclusionary practices and promote positive student outcomes, including reduced absenteeism. Evidence-based prevention measures that include assisting parents with identification of lice/nits and teaching students, parents, staff and community effective prevention measures. Both the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and the CDC advocate for the following practices to be discontinued:● whole classroom screening
  
===PAGE 28===
● exclusion for nits or live lice● notification to others except for parents/guardians of students with head lice infestations Classroom screenings are often inaccurate, not cost-effective, and notification to others  may be a breach of confidentiality. Schools should not exclude students for active infestation or when nits remain after appropriate lice treatment. Pediculosis ProcedureAny student suspected of having head lice should be sent to the health office for inspection by the school nurse.● If the student has evidence of head lice the parent/guardian will be notified.● Consultation with your health care provider is recommended to determine the best treatment option. Both AAP and CDC assert that treatment should only be initiated when at least one live louse has been identified. ● Health care providers and their staff should collaborate with school nurses and families to provide safe, affordable, evidence-based treatment recommendations that ensure effective management of head lice infestations and promotion of regular school attendance
For more information about head lice and tips for successful treatment please refer to the following websites:● American Academy of Pediatrics○ Head Lice: What Parents Need to Know○ Head Lice Symptom Checker● National Association of School Nurses○ Head Lice Management in Schools
Communicable Diseases: The following diseases are common among school children and are considered communicable. Children having any of these diseases must be excluded from school according to the Isolation and Quarantine Regulations of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health.● Chicken Pox - one week from appearance of eruption or until crusted over● Shingles - same as chicken pox unless rash can be completely covered● German Measles - seven days after the onset of rash● Pertussis (whooping cough) - three weeks after onset of cough or completion of five days of antibiotic therapy● Measles - four days from appearance of rash● Mumps - nine days or until swelling subsides● Streptococcal Infections (including scarlet fever, strep throat) - one week without antibiotics or 24 hours after beginning antibiotics
Please see Section 5706 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Health and Safety: Communicable Diseases) for more information.5706 Communicable Diseases APPROVED 4-7-21.pdf
  
===PAGE 29===
Immunizations: As required by state regulations (102 CMR 7.07 and 105 CMR 220.00), the Department of Public Health has established the following requirements for children to attend day care, kindergarten, school and college. These requirements are the minimally acceptable number of immunizations for attendance at day care centers and schools. Students not in compliance will be excluded from school as per Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 76, Section 15. Please see Section 5703 and 5708 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Health and Safety: Immunization Requirements for Students; Tuberculin Screening & Immunization for New and Transfer Students from Outside the United States) for more information.
Medical exemptions (statements from a physician stating that a vaccine is medically contraindicated for a student) must be renewed annually at the start of the school year, and religious exemptions (statement from a student or parent/guardian, if the student is <18 years of age, stating that a vaccine is against sincerely held religious beliefs), should be renewed annually at the start of the school year.
If a child is not immunized against a vaccine-preventable disease due to religious or     medical exemption and an outbreak of such a disease should occur, the child may be subject to exclusion from school according to Massachusetts Department of Public Health regulations. This regulation now includes chicken pox and pertussis (whooping cough), effective September 2011.
Proof of immunization requires a physician’s signature. Please request a copy for the school health record.
Massachusetts School Immunization Requirements 2024–2025Massachusetts School Immunization Requirements 2024–2025
Massachusetts school immunization requirements are created under the authority of 105 CMR 220.000: Immunization of Students Before Admission to School
Requirements apply to all students, including individuals from other countries attending or visiting classes or educational programs as part of an academic visitation or exchange program. Requirements apply to all students in every grade, even if they are over 18 years of age. 
¶ Meningococcal vaccine requirements (see Grades 7–10 and 11–12) also apply to residential students in Grades Preschool through 8 if the school combines these grades in the same school as students in Grades 9–12.
Grades 7–12
†
In ungraded classrooms, Grade 7 requirements apply to all students ≥12 years.
  
===PAGE 30===
Tdap 1 dose; and history of DTaP primary series or age-appropriate catch-up vaccination; Tdap given at ≥7 years may be counted, but a dose at age 11–12 is recommended if Tdap was given earlier as part of a catch-up schedule; Td or Tdap should be given if it has been ≥10 years since last Tdap
Polio 4 doses; fourth dose must be given on or after the 4
th
 birthday and ≥6 months after the previous dose or a fifth dose is required; 3 doses are acceptable if the third dose is given on or after the 4
th
 birthday and ≥6 months after the previous dose
Hepatitis B3 doses; laboratory evidence of immunity acceptable; 2 doses of Heplisav-B given on or after 18 years of age are acceptable
MMR 2 doses; first dose must be given on or after the 1
st
 birthday, and second dose must be given ≥28 days after first dose; laboratory evidence of immunity acceptable
Varicella2 doses; first dose must be given on or after the 1
st
 birthday and second dose must be given ≥28 days after first dose; a reliable history of chickenpox* or laboratory evidence of immunity acceptable
Meningococcal Requirements
Grade 7–10
1 dose; 1 dose MenACWY (formerly MCV4) required; Meningococcal B vaccine is not required and does not meet this requirement
Grade 
11–12
‡
2 doses; second dose MenACWY (formerly MCV4) must be given on or after the 16th birthday and ≥ 8 weeks after the previous dose; 1 dose is acceptable if it was given on or after the 16th birthday; Meningococcal B vaccine is not required and does not meet this requirement
 
§ Address questions about enforcement with your legal counsel. School requirements are enforced at the local level.
† Medical exemptions (statement from a physician stating that a vaccine is medically contraindicated for a student) must be renewed annually at the start of the school year, and religious exemptions (statement from a student or parent/guardian, if the student is <18 years of age, stating that a vaccine is against sincerely held religious beliefs), should be renewed annually at the start of the school year.
* A reliable history of chickenpox includes a diagnosis of chickenpox or interpretation of parent/guardian description of chickenpox by a physician, nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or designee.
‡ Students who are 15 years old in Grade 11 are in compliance until they turn 16 years old.
Medication Procedure 
  
===PAGE 31===
● The administration of medication during school hours is discouraged. Whenever possible, medication should be given before and after school hours.● All medication must be accompanied by the medication permission form, completed by both the physician and the parent/guardian. ● All medication must be delivered to the school by the parent/guardian or responsible adult in the original pharmacy container. ● Please ask your pharmacist to provide separate bottles for school and home.● No more than a thirty day supply of medication should be delivered to the school.● All medication orders must be renewed at the beginning of each school year and as needed for any deviation from the original order. ● Any over the counter medication will require a doctor’s order and written parent/guardian permission to be on file prior to being administered.● Students are not permitted to carry prescription, non-emergency medications.● The school nurse will determine the necessity of assigning nurses to field trips as is medically indicated for the health and safety of students. If a nurse is not required on a field trip, DPH registration for delegation of medication applies.
Lunenburg Public Schools Wellness Policy 
It is the policy of the school district that all foods and beverages made available for students on campus during the school day and during school-sponsored programs are consistent with National School Lunch Program nutrition guidelines. Wellness Policy
Lunenburg Public Schools Life-Threatening Allergy Policy
It is the policy of the LPS to establish age appropriate procedures and guidelines for students and schools within the Lunenburg Public School that minimize the risk for students with life threatening allergies. The procedures and guidelines on LTAs are presented at both the district and school building based levels. It is the LPS's expectation that both the district and building-based procedures and guidelines will take into account the health needs and well-being of all students without discrimination or isolation of any student. It is also the policy of the LPS that the procedures and guidelines shift as the student advances from preschool to elementary grades and through the secondary grades. Life Threatening Allergy Policy
Life Threatening Allergy Procedure● At all levels, the school nurse, in conjunction with the student’s parent(s)/guardian(s) and the primary care provider/allergist, will prepare an Individual Health Plan (IHP) for any student with a life-threatening allergy. This IHP will be updated annually. The IHP will include the student’s name, the allergen(s), the warning signs and symptoms, what to do in case of an 
  
===PAGE 32===
emergency, phone numbers of parent(s)/guardian(s), primary care provider/allergist. The IHP will then be shared with those staff members with a need to know in order to implement the safety plan. Photographs of students with LTA may be attached to the IHP by the parent(s)/guardian(s).
● School bus drivers will be notified of students who have life threatening allergies, by the student’s parent(s)/guardian(s). Parent(s)/guardian(s), teachers and bus drivers will work together reinforcing the safety rules of no eating on the bus and no sharing of food or eating utensils with other students. Medical Alert bracelets are encouraged for all who have life threatening allergies.
● Food service employees will use latex free gloves and latex free products in food preparation. Food service employees are Servsafe Trained and have received training on Food Allergy Awareness. At the Primary, Elementary and Middle/High Schools, the kitchen is a nut safe environment, meaning all hot lunch items will be “nut safe”, being monitored by the kitchen staff. 
● Peanut/tree nut free tables will be assigned in the cafeteria in all schools as necessary and determined by the Individual Health Care Plan. Students with life threatening allergies sitting at these tables are allowed to choose a friend to join them. This friend MUST have a hot lunch to ensure a peanut/tree nut free lunch. Cafeteria tables will be wiped down between grade level lunches. It will be the responsibility of the principal or designee to ensure these areas are not contaminated. Students with LTA should not be table washers in the cafeteria.  Cleaning supplies for LTA tables should be separate from other table cleaning supplies, thus avoiding any cross-contamination.
● EpiPens will be available in the nurse’s office and in other clearly designated locations as specified in the IHCP.  At the beginning of each school year or upon assuming a staff position, all staff (including substitutes) will be informed of the location of EpiPens. Students may carry their EpiPens on their person as allowed in the medication policy and is outlined under “self-administration of medications.” The student’s EpiPen will accompany them on field trips and special events which occur during the school day, as pre-planned by nurse and parent. An EpiPen trained staff member or parent/guardian will accompany students on field trips. Safety plans for after-school activities and sports need to be pre-planned with parent and responsible parties as indicated on the IHCP. It is recommended that responsible parties are EpiPen trained for the safety of their students.
● Public school buildings are sites for after-hours activities for the community. When food is brought in to after-hours activities, it then poses a risk for students with LTA who use the same space during school hours. To mitigate that risk, signs will be posted in community-used locations to inform users that food containing common allergens, if prepared or consumed at that location, requires 
  
===PAGE 33===
thorough cleaning of surfaces after use. This would include hand washing to prevent allergen transmission to common surfaces (doorknobs, railings) as well as thorough cleaning of the surfaces used (tables, desks, etc.).
Allergen Aware Classrooms: All classrooms will be peanut/tree nut free. This means all items brought into the classroom for snack shall be free of these allergens. This includes all products that have labeling with “may contain” and “manufactured in a facility”. If a snack is not peanut/tree nut free it will not be allowed in the classroom. It is the teacher’s responsibility to monitor this.In order to comply with food safety and nutrition standards:● No unannounced food may be brought into the classroom.● Food brought into school for classroom distribution must have a clear USDA nutrition ingredient label.● There is a maximum of one food celebration allowed per month.
Classroom celebrations should focus on activities rather than food.
                             
Scheduling & Grading    
LHS Bell Schedule 2023-2024A 8:00-8:50
C 8:00-9:25
G 8:00-8:50
B 8:00-9:25
D 8:00-8:50
B 8:54-9:44
A 8:54-9:44
F 8:54-9:44
ADVISORY 9:29-9:55
ADVISORY 9:29-9:55
ADVISORY 9:48-9:55
ADVISORY 9:48-9:55
ADVISORY 9:48-9:55
C 9:59-10:49
L1 10:53-11:17L2 11:21-11:45
G 9:59-10:49
L1 10:53-11:17L2 11:21-11:45
E 9:59-10:49
L1 10:53-11:17L2 11:21-11:45
D 9:59-10:49
L1 10:53-11:17L2 11:21-11:45
A 9:59-10:49
L1 10:53-11:17L2 11:21-11:45
  
===PAGE 34===
E 12:46-1:36
D 12:46-1:36
B 12:46-1:36
F 12:46-1:36
C 12:46-1:36
F 1:40-2:30
E 1:40-2:30
C 1:40-2:30
G 1:40-2:30
B 1:40-2:30
                                               
❖Academic Requirements -Students must meet all LHS academic, state, and attendance requirements in order to receive a Lunenburg High School diploma and to participate in the graduation ceremony.❖Transfer Students- All students who transfer into Lunenburg High School are expected to meet all Lunenburg High School graduation requirements. Not all courses from other high schools will transfer for Lunenburg High School credit. It is the decision of the School Counseling Department and the administration to award credit for transfer courses. The following grading scale will be used for students transferring in with letter grades.
A+  98-100         C   73-76
A      93-97          C-   70-72
A-     90-92         D+  67-69
B+    87-89         D     63-66
B       83-86         D-  60-62
B-     80-82          F    0-59
C+    77-79
*Please note that students transferring to Lunenburg High School with a Just Beginning (JB) for a bench mark on their transcript will not be awarded credit for that course. Any student presenting JB will need to repeat the course at 
  
===PAGE 35===
Lunenburg High School to receive credit. 
❖  Add/Drop - Students will only be allowed to add or drop courses for the first ten days of school for full year courses or the first ten school days of a semester for semester courses. Add/Drops after this time are extremely rare and require administrative, parent, and department head approval, and the permission of the teachers in the added and dropped courses, which will be granted only under unique circumstances.❖Course Withdrawal - No credit shall be granted to a student withdrawing from a course before completion. Students withdrawing from a course beyond the add/drop period require administrative approval, and will receive a WP (withdraw passing), WF (withdraw failing), or ME (medical exemption) notation on the student transcript.  Students must carry a course load of 6 full credits distinguished between # of credits and # of courses to remain enrolled as a full time student.
Lunenburg High School Graduation Requirements
Credits to Graduate                            24
English                                                            4
Science                                                            3
Math                                                                3
(must be enrolled in math during senior year) and must pass Alg I, Geom and Alg II) 
Social Studies                                             3
(Including World History & US History, and Civics)
Health                                                             .5
Unified Arts                                                    2
Foreign Language                                         2 -  consecutive language
Physical Education                                      1.5
Electives                                                          5
MCAS test must be passed for students to graduate.
  
===PAGE 36===
1. All students (starting with the class of 2023) must complete a civics project as a graduation requirement.  This requirement can be fulfilled by taking either Civics & Community Engagement, AP US Gov. & Politics, or English Community Service Learning.2. It is the expectation that all students meet all of the LHS requirements.  However, in extreme cases, a request can be submitted to the building Principal, providing the appropriate documentation, to waive a graduation requirement.
❖Other Course Options- A minimum of six full-credit courses or their equivalent must be taken each year. There is a limit of two credits per year from outside programs excluding summer school.  Courses currently offered in the LHS curriculum may not be supplanted by courses taken outside of LHS.  In order to receive full credit for courses taken elsewhere or as a result of failing a regular Lunenburg High School Course, the student must have satisfied the following criteria:
A. Summer School Makeup1. The student must have achieved an overall final grade of at least 50 in the failed course, or loss of credit due to the attendance policy.2.  Summer school programs outside of Lunenburg must be pre-approved by the administration before credit will be accepted. It is the student’s responsibility to seek this approval.3.  Summer School grades are factored into GPA as a one-credit course. These grades do not replace the failed course grade.4. An official summer school grade report must be sent and/or reported to the registrar in the School Counseling Office prior to the first day of school.
             B. Courses taken outside of Lunenburg High School1.  All  courses taken outside of Lunenburg High School must be approved in advance by the school counseling department, the appropriate department head, and the administration.2. The cost of courses taken outside of LHS  are the responsibility of the student.3.  Approval must be obtained in writing before coursework begins.4. Outside courses may not be taken simultaneously with the same course at LHS.5.  Outside courses cannot be taken instead of courses offered in the LHS curriculum or LHS summer school.6. No more than two credits toward graduation may be earned through outside courses.
  
===PAGE 37===
D. Dual Enrollment Student Expectations 
1. Students involved with Dual Enrollment are required to meet with a school counselor to review and sign their Dual Enrollment Contract prior to enrolling in courses.2. Full-time Dual Enrollment students must enroll in a minimum of 12 credits per semester.  In the circumstance where a student is enrolled in courses both at LHS and through Dual Enrollment,minimum course requirements will be outlined in the Dual Enrollment Contract signed with the school counselor.  3. All courses must be pre-approved by the LHS School Counseling Office before each semester begins. If a student enrolls in courses without approval of the LHS School Counseling Office, we cannot guarantee that a student is on track for graduation.4.  Eligibility for Lunenburg High School athletics and extracurricular activities will be determined when a student's grades are reported to the registrar.5.  To maintain eligibility at Lunenburg High School for athletics and extracurricular activities, full-time dual enrollment students must stay enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits each semester and pass all four courses with a 2.0 or higher. In the circumstance where a student is enrolled in courses both at LHS and through Dual Enrollment, eligibility requirements will be outlined in the Dual Enrollment Contract signed with the school counselor.  6.   Once accepted as a Dual Enrollment student, there is no guarantee that the college can provide the courses that a student needs to meet LHS graduation requirements. Should this situation arise, it will be necessary for a student to return to LHS to complete one or more courses.  7.  Courses taken through the Dual Enrollment program are listed on the LHS transcript with the course title and grade earned.  The course name is preceded by a “DE” to indicate that the course is taken through Dual Enrollment.  The grades earned in Dual Enrollment courses are not included in the calculation of LHS unweighted GPA or the weighted class rank used to determine Valedictorian and Salutatorian. 
7.  Dual Enrollment students need to request that their official college transcript be sent to the LHS registrar and any colleges or universities that they have applied to, at the conclusion of each semester.  8.  The cost for Dual Enrollment courses are the responsibility of the student/family.  In addition to the cost per course, students are also responsible for the cost of transportation, textbooks, and any other instructional materials or course fees as required by the instructor.9.  At any time a Dual Enrollment student withdraws from a Dual Enrollment course and/or  program they must notify their school counselor prior to withdrawal.
  
===PAGE 38===
10.Dual Enrollment students withdrawing from a Dual Enrollment program during a semester must provide their school registrar with an official grade report from the college. This grade report must reflect their grade/average at the time of withdrawal. Failure to do so will impact credits needed to meet graduation requirements and may potentially impact the student’s date of graduation.11.Students enrolled in Dual Enrollment must be enrolled in full time coursework each semester until their LHS class graduates and  may not graduate in advance of their class.  Students are expected to be fully enrolled and taking courses at LHS or through Dual Enrollment for a minimum of four years.   
E.  Virtual High School(VHS) and Senior Transition Experience Program(STEP)1. Information is available in the Program of Studies.
❖Shadowing Program - The purpose of shadowing for a day is for a potential student to experience our school first-hand, which is an important part of school selection. Shadowing is only permitted for students that have met the residency requirements or approved school-choice slot.  The procedure is as follows:
1.  Request comes in to the guidance department
2.  Counselor-parent contact is made to discuss admission to enrollment in Lunenburg
3.  Visitation form is completed and submitted to administrator
4.  Administrator signs form – copies go to guidance and office staff
5.  Final approval is issued to parent by counselor by phone 
Shadowing is not:
1.  Allowing visits from local students because they have a day off
2.  Providing supervision for relatives who are visiting from out-of-town.
3.  Visits from former students seeking to re-enter.
❖Grading and Reporting Policy- It is the policy of the school system that students, teachers, and parents/guardians working together can help all students achieve. The purpose of grading is to improve student performance through timely and specific feedback on performance compared to a standard. Grading and reporting practices will be fair and meaningful and support rigorous performance 
  
===PAGE 39===
and achievement standards for all students. Grades will have consistent meaning throughout the school system and be based on grade level and course expectations as outlined in the curriculum.      
Grades will be reported by term based on the following scale:
A+  98-100         C   73-76
A      93-97          C-   70-72
A-     90-92         D+  67-69
B+    87-89         D     63-66
B       83-86         D-  60-62
B-     80-82          F    0-59
C+    77-79  *Unweighted GPA will be reported on a 100 point scale 
Letter Grade     College Prep      Honors                 AP                   Percent Range     
A+     4.0 4.5 5.0 98-100
A 3.7 4.2 4.7 93-97
A- 3.5 4.0 4.5 90-92
B+ 3.3 3.8 4.3 87-89
B 3.0 3.5 4.0 83-86
B- 2.7 3.2 3.7 80-82
C+ 2.4 2.9 3.4 77-79
  
===PAGE 40===
C 2.0 2.5 3.0 73-76
C- 1.7 2.2 2.7 70-72
D+ 1.4 1.9 2.4 67-69
D 1.0 1.5 2.0 63-66
D- 0.7 1.2 1.7 60-62
Please see Section 5202 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Instructional Program: Grading) for more information.https://drive.google.com/file/d/11Dp36DfWPvpZbzDfBbVGxg0KKEoZiMTQ/view
❖Report Cards - Course grades are available online through Powerschool during the academic year.  Students are expected to discuss their grades with their parents/guardians. Students and parents are encouraged to check grades regularly.  Students are expected to discuss their online report cards with their parents. Listed on each report card are the student's marks, any teacher comments, and the number of days the student has been absent or tardy. ❖Incompletes - An incomplete, indicated by the letter "I" on the report card, means that a student did not complete mandatory course requirement(s). When an incomplete is filed and accepted by the main office, the student has a maximum of 10 school days from the close of the term to make up the work.  Failure to complete work missed within the ten school days will result in a failing grade for the work missed. It is the student’s responsibility to arrange with teachers for the makeup of missing academic work. Exceptions to this policy will be determined only by the administration.❖Medically Excused (ME) - A medically-excused grade will be determined on a case-by-case basis when there is a medically documented need due to a long term condition. Staff and administration will meet to develop an appropriate plan of action.❖Homework - Lunenburg High School believes that homework is a necessary and beneficial component of the educational process for all students. Please refer to teacher syllabi for individual class homework policies. There will be specific school breaks which will be designated as “homework free” with significant advanced notice.❖Physical  Education  Excusals - A student may be excused from physical 
  
===PAGE 41===
education classes only if a note from a doctor to the school nurse certifies that participation would be detrimental to the student's health. Students who are medically excused from classes are expected to complete alternate assignments provided by the physical education teachers. Refer to the graduation requirements page and course selection booklet for physical education requirements.❖Pencil F - Teachers and administrators reserve the right to review a student’s failing grades (below a 50) from quarter one and/or quarter two on a case-by-case basis and modify the numerical grade to no higher than a 50 if the student has shown substantial progress and acquisition of the standards in that subject in all other grading quarters.❖Honor Roll - Students achieving academic distinction are recognized by honor roll listing.  Grades include all courses without exception. A student must carry a minimum of 6 courses. Only students enrolled in six full-credit courses are eligible for academic honors. Honor roll will be calculated two weeks after the date report cards are issued to allow students to make up any incompletes.  Dual Enrollment students are not recognized in Honor Roll during the first and third quarters because grades are not reported by the college in those grading periods.  1. Special Honor:   All A’s required without exception.2. High Honor:    A’s and B’s are required. A student must have an A in at least one major subject.  A major subject is one that earns .5 credits per semester or 1 credit per year.3. Honor: One C allowed, otherwise all A’s and B’s.
❖ Grade Point Average (GPA) ReportingLunenburg High School reports an unweighted GPA for all students.  The LHS GPA is calculated using the final grade of all courses taken at LHS, including Virtual High School courses.  Any course taken outside of LHS is not counted in the calculation of GPA.  
❖Valedictorian and Salutatorian
For the sole purpose of determining valedictorian and salutatorian, the LHS calculates a weighted grade point average at the end of 7 semesters.  The valedictorian designation shall be awarded to the student who has the highest cumulative weighted grade point average, and the salutatorian shall be the student with the second highest cumulative weighted grade point average at the end of 7 semesters.  To be eligible for valedictorian and salutatorian recognition, a student must complete a minimum of 2 years/4 semesters at Lunenburg High School.  
  
===PAGE 42===
❖Final Exams/Assessments - A final assessment provides the opportunity for students to analyze and synthesize content, to demonstrate mastery of the course-specific academic expectations, and to transfer knowledge to new contexts. All students are required to participate in the final assessment for each of their individual courses. There are no exemptions from final exams.❖AP Courses - All students who enroll in AP courses at LHS are expected to take the AP exam at the end of the course. Students who choose not to take the AP exam will have the AP designation removed from their transcript. All post-secondary schools that they have applied to will be notified of this change in their transcript by the School Counseling Office.❖Withdrawal From School - Any student wishing to withdraw from school must obtain a withdrawal form from the school counseling office on the student's last day of school.  This form must be signed by all subject teachers, the health office, a school counselor, the media specialist, and administration.  Chromebooks and all school books must be returned, and all other student obligations must be met before the form will be signed.  The signed form must be submitted to the school counseling office prior to departure. 
❖Books and Equipment: The school system provides most textbooks and equipment needed by students. These are on loan. Students who lose or damage any school property must reimburse the Town of Lunenburg for the loss or damage. Book values are prorated based on the age of the book. Books are to be kept covered at all times. Any students whose items not returned in good condition will be subject to final grade withholding until the matter has been taken care of to the satisfaction of the administration.
                                             Food Service/Cafeteria                                                             ● Lunches for the 2023-2024 school year are free Meals are available at no cost when students take a full reimbursable meal but ala carte items are charged. The cost of an additional hot lunch is now $3.50.  Lunches cannot be paid for in the lunch line. Checks should be made out to “Town of Lunenburg”, along with student name, ID # and Grade listed, or cash (envelopes available in the front office) should be deposited in cash boxes located in the front lobby when students arrive at school. These payments are picked up on a daily basis. Payment can also be made online through RevTrak.  A RevTrak tutorial can be found at the following link:  
Revtrak tutorial.mp4
● Free/Reduced Applications
:  It is important for ALL families to complete a meal benefit application as it allows 
  
===PAGE 43===
us to establish eligibility for P-EBT, waive or reduce school related fees associated with athletics, field trips, activities, AP exams and others for those families who qualify.3701.02  MEAL CHARGING POLICY ADOPTED 3-1-23.pdf
 FY23_Household_Application.docx FY23_Application_Directions.docx 
● The school cafeteria serves a hot lunch, as well as à la carte items. Students are expected to use their lockers before they arrive in the cafeteria and are expected to remain in the cafeteria for the entire lunch period.  Only the bathrooms immediately outside of the lunchroom may be used while students are at lunch.   All food and beverages must be consumed in the cafeteria or outdoor picnic area. When weather permits, students may go outside to eat in designated lunch areas. Eating outside is a privilege and may be restricted for lack of cleanliness or for misbehavior.  All students are expected to clean up after themselves and conduct themselves in a mature manner during lunchtime. Students should use the pre-pay method and punch provide their ID # card for staff to scan to  and expedite the lunch line.  
A monthly menu is posted at the beginning of each month (except July and August) to the school website:  www.lunenburgschools.net .
 
                                      Extracurricular Travel
❖Field Trips/Conferences: Appropriate behavior is mandatory on all school trips. All school rules apply on field trips. Permission slips are required for each trip. The faculty and administration may, as a disciplinary measure, notify parents and students in advance that individual students are not permitted to attend a particular field trip due to inappropriate behavior in school or on previous field trips. Please see Section 5212 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Instructional Program: Field Trips and Student Travel) for more information.5000 - Students and Instruction Sections Updated and Approved 6-20-18.pdf
         Technology and Library/Media Center                                         
❖ Acceptable Technology Use Policy for Students - The use of technology is integral to preparing students for their futures in the 21st century.  Students are encouraged to use technology to enhance their learning through tools which help them to 
  
===PAGE 44===
communicate, collaborate, and create.   Computer equipment, technology services, and Internet access are provided for educational purposes only.  Student use of technology in the Lunenburg Public Schools is solely for the enhancement of learning.  This policy extends to all technology applications including but not limited to electronic mail, blogs, and Google classroom chat.  All students and parents are expected to read this Acceptable Use Policy.  Students and their parents are also required to sign an Acceptable Use Policy Agreement Form. Adherence to this policy is a condition for a student's use of technology.
Acceptable Uses include (but are not limited to) the following:
Students must…
1. Identify themselves in Internet communications2. Post/send only useful and appropriate information3. Only access their own account and keep their passwords private4. Only alter their own work, unless they have permission from the owner5. Only use the e-mail account provided by the Lunenburg Schools while on the school network
(Lunenburg e-mail accounts may also be accessed at any time from outside the school network.)
Students should…
1. Check e-mail frequently and delete old mail.2. Take care in using humor, avoiding sarcasm and unreasonable criticism (or “flaming”) of others.3. Credit the original author when quoting someone else's work.4. Remove their old files when they are no longer needed.
Students must not…
1. Engage in harassment, libel, or slander of any kind.2. Use the Internet for illegal activities including, but not limited to, copyright violations and illegal distribution of software.3. Give out their own or another individual's personal information such as address or phone number.4. Post audio, video, or any material of or created by another student or faculty member without that individual's permission.5. Use the Internet to access sexually explicit or pornographic materials.6. Engage in spamming (sending massive, inappropriate, and/or unsolicited information) or flooding (transferring data without intent of meaningful communication).
  
===PAGE 45===
7. Use equipment without permission.8. Alter the configuration of school technology, except as educationally appropriate.9. Download or install software of any kind.10.Illegally copy software.11.Use the Internet for commercial or political purposes.
Sanctions - Network access is a privilege, not a right. The Lunenburg Public Schools will review alleged violations of this Acceptable Use Policy. Violations could result in the following:
1. Loss of access privileges2. Additional disciplinary action at the building level in accordance with the discipline code in the student handbooks3. Referral to appropriate law enforcement agencies
Disclaimer of Liability - The Lunenburg Public School system denies responsibility for the accuracy or quality of information obtained from the Internet. The Lunenburg Public School system cannot guarantee that access will always be available and is not responsible for any damage a user suffers or for the loss of data obtained via the Internet.
Privacy - Users should not have an expectation of privacy or confidentiality in the context of electronic communications or of other files sent, received and/or stored on the district's network.  The Lunenburg Public School System also reserves the right to examine all data sent, received and/or stored on the district's network.   All communications including text and images may be disclosed to law enforcement or other third parties without prior consent of the sender or receiver.  Electronic communications may be archived for a period of up to three years.
❖Email Accounts for Grades 9-12 - No student will be assigned an email account without parental or guardian approval. The email naming convention will be yearofgraduation.firstname.initialoflastname@lunenburgschools.net (such as the following for Jane Jones in the class of 2022: 2022janej@lunenburgschools.net).   In addition, the official name that has been entered for the student in the student information system will follow a similar naming convention; no last names will be used or appear in the “from” area of any sent email.
Library Use Policy 
The mission of the library media center is to provide students and faculty an atmosphere conducive to learning. Students and teachers are encouraged to visit the library for research assistance, for technology support, to find a great book, to access the printer or copier, or to find a relaxing place to work. Please see the 
  
===PAGE 46===
Using Library Resources page of the library website for information about circulation of materials and other library policies.
Students hoping to use the library during study or lunch must check with the librarian to make sure space is available. High school students taking online courses may use the library during their designated block and/or study.  All students coming into the library need to sign in on the attendance sheet and remain in the library for the entire study period.
The library maintains a classroom environment and students who are not responsibly working will be asked to return to class or study. This space is shared with the middle school, so appropriate language and behavior is expected at all times. Failure to comply with library rules and regulations, or inappropriate use of library materials and equipment, will result in loss of library privileges.
                                                           Discipline                                                                        
❖Code of ConductIn order for students to fulfill their academic potential, a safe, positive, and orderly environment is essential. The best decisions for managing student behavior are based on a value system that maintains the dignity of each student in all situations. Behaving responsibly is more valued than behaving obediently. Good teaching is holistic and discipline is an integral part of the entire teaching experience. Every decision affecting behavior management affects instruction.
The purpose of a code of conduct is to protect the safety, health, property, and personal rights of every member of the school community. Parents, school personnel, and students share the responsibility of maintaining a positive learning environment. This discipline code applies to all areas of school, not only to the classroom, and includes all school-sponsored activities including those occurring off school grounds. Please see Section 5400 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct) for more information.  5400  Student Conduct  Approved 5-3-17.pdfAll students are expected to abide by the code of conduct described in this handbook.  Should a student with a disability require modification of this code because the behavioral concern was determined to be a manifestation of the disability, the modification(s) will be clearly described in the student’s Individual Educational Plan.  See the Special Education Services section of this handbook for more information.
  
===PAGE 47===
The following guiding principles should govern student conduct and behavior:
● Maintain a positive and constructive learning environment.● Respect each member of the school community.● Be considerate of the rights of each member of the school community. ● Respect school property and the personal property of others.
● Illegal Articles:  Possession of a firearm on school grounds is a crime in Massachusetts (Chapter 150 of Acts of 1987 to M.G.L. Ch. 269 § 10). Additionally, knives, sharp instruments, any weapon, tobacco products, matches, lighters, pipes, alcohol, and drugs not prescribed by a physician are all illegal to have on school property. In compliance with state law (MGL Chap. 71, Section 37H) expressly prohibits the use of tobacco products, including all forms of electronic cigarettes or E-cigarettes, within school buildings, school facilities, on school buses or on school grounds by any individual, student or adult, at all times.Please see Sections 5403-5405 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct: Smoking/Use of Smokeless Tobacco; Alcohol Use by Students; Drug Abuse Policy) for more information.  5403  Alcohol, Tobacco and Drug Use by Students Prohibited Updated & Approved 12-16-20.pdf
● Articles Not Allowed in School: Certain articles have been deemed unnecessary, dangerous, and/or distracting to the educational environment and therefore are not allowed on school property. These include, but are not limited to, games, water pistols,”look alike” toy weapons, open containers of soft drinks, pets/animals not deemed as service animals, aerosols, incendiary devices, glue, and white-out. iPods and other similar electronic devices.   Costumes may not be worn in school.  Large blankets are not permitted.  ● Violations - The rules herein apply to all students regardless of special education needs unless alternative approaches or consequences are specified in a student's Individual Education Plan.  Violations of the following school rules could result in assignment of disciplinary consequences including, but not limited to, community service, social probation, loss of privileges,  loss of parking permit, restorative justice assignment/project, and detentions or suspension from school.  Repeated violations will result in increasingly severe disciplinary consequences.
The following are major categories of violations of Lunenburg High School behavioral expectations:  
1.  Failure to comply with reasonable requests and/or rightful instructions of a teacher or staff member
  
===PAGE 48===
2.  Unauthorized absence from class, study hall, lunchroom, or Advisory
3.  Chronic tardiness
4.  Leaving the school grounds without proper dismissal
5.  Unauthorized use of passes or leaving class without a pass
6.  Gambling, card-playing, or other games that do not directly pertain to the classroom
7.  Vulgar, obscene, profane or violent communications, references to illegal activities
8.  Creation, possession, or distribution of lewd/obscene/pornographic materials or any photograph, video, meme, etc. that is offensive, harassing, bullying, intended to harm, belittle or make fun of another individual.  
9.  Theft
10. Possession of stolen property
11. Students will be permitted to use cell phones in the hallways between classes and in the cafeteria during lunch. Cell phones are not permitted to be used in the classroom.  Cell phones should not be used in the hallways during class time. If cell phones are observed during restricted times, the teacher will confiscate the phone and log in to the office during their next free period. A parent may be required to pick up the confiscated cell phone by 3:30 p.m. or by appointment. To set up an appointment with an administrator, call 978-582-4115.
12. The use of personal stereos/iPods cell phones and headphones are at teacher’s discretion. See individual classroom rules.
13. Leaving the school building without a pass from the main office.
14. Activities that create a disturbance or threat of injury to others (pushing, shoving, running in the halls, throwing objects, internet posts, etc.)
15. Unsportsmanlike conduct by participants or spectators at school competitions or any school sponsored event
16. Inappropriate public displays of affection
17. Food and drink (excluding water) may not be consumed during class time. Food items and drinks are prohibited in the library, gymnasium, auditorium, science labs and computer labs.
  
===PAGE 49===
18. Disrespect, dishonesty, vulgarity, insolence, or insubordination toward or in response to teachers, school staff or other students
19. Threatening behavior toward another student. Every student involved in a fight is subject to suspension.
20. Violation of harassment policy
21. Fraud, falsification, forgery, or giving a false name
22. Violation of the cheating and plagiarism policy
23. Opening or accessing the locker of another student without permission or opening or accessing a teacher’s desk or closet
24. Unauthorized entry into unsupervised areas
25. Vandalism or destruction property (school, staff, or student)
26. Violation of parking policy
27. Violation of alcohol, tobacco, and/or drug policy
28. Violation of the dress code
29. Violation of the computer Acceptable Use Policy
30. Possession of a laser pointer or use of a laser pointer
31.  Possession of games, water pistols, “look alike” toy weapons
32. Violation of the conduct outside of school policy
33. Videotaping or taking photos of students or teachers without permission
34. . Two or more people in a single stall restroom or sharing a stall in the large restroom or locker room  
Chronic violations will require parental conference with administration.
❖Suspension is MANDATORY for the following:
1.   Violation of alcohol and drug policy or smoking/vaping on school property or at school activities
2.   Possession of drugs and/or drug paraphernalia
3.   Failure to report to a teacher or administrator knowledge of a violation of rules that endangers the safety of another student or threatens the safety and security of 
  
===PAGE 50===
the school.
4.   Assault and fighting: All students involved in a fight are subject to suspension. Students who assault another student/staff will have additional suspensions and may be subject to an exclusion hearing.
5.   Possession of dangerous or destructive materials or weapons; police will be notified immediately of such offenses.
6.   Verbal threats or posturing a threat toward any staff member, student body or school building.
7.   Hazing (as defined by Mass. General Law Chap. 269 Sec. 17-19) means any conduct or method of initiation into any student organization, whether on public or private property which willfully or recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person. Violations of this law may also be subject to criminal prosecution.
8.   Failure to submit to an administrative search; this also includes failure to submit to an alcohol test if requested by an administrator.
In addition to suspension as required by paragraphs above, Massachusetts General Law may require expulsion under the following circumstances:
1. Any student who is found on school premises or at school-sponsored or school-related events, including athletic games, who is in possession of a dangerous weapon (including but not limited to a gun or a knife) or a controlled substance as defined in chapter 94c, including but not limited to marijuana, cocaine and heroin, may be subject to expulsion from the school or school district by the principal.
2.  Any student who assaults a principal, assistant principal, teacher, teacher's aide, or other educational staff on school premises or at school-sponsored or school-related events, including athletic games, may be subject to expulsion from the school or school district by the principal.
Any student who is charged with either of the above two violations shall be notified in writing of an opportunity for a hearing; provided, however, that the student may have representation, along with the opportunity to present evidence and witnesses at said hearing before the principal.
❖Due Process - In Goss v. Lopez, the United States Supreme Court held that before a student receives a disciplinary penalty, they have the constitutional right to receive:
1.  Oral or written notice of the charges against them
2.  An explanation of the evidence against them
  
===PAGE 51===
3.  The opportunity to present their side of the story
*In the case of a violation requiring suspension from school, notice of the  suspension and the hearing must occur before the student may be asked to leave school, except when students present an immediate threat to school officials, other students, or themselves or when they clearly endanger the school environment.  In this case, the hearing may be delayed, but must be held within a reasonable period of time.  Copies of reports of any disciplinary action(s) taken are maintained until student graduation.
❖Conduct Outside of School - Students are reminded that they are responsible for and shall be held accountable for conduct outside of school that impacts Lunenburg Middle-High School in the following ways:
1.  The conduct presents a direct and immediate threat to the well-being and order of the school
2.  The conduct places Lunenburg High School students and/or staff at risk of being injured, is unsafe, dangerous, or irresponsible
3.  The conduct causes conflict and disputes among students and/or staff that negatively impact the educational climate of the school (i.e. social media posts or text messages)
Students in violation of this Conduct Outside of School policy shall be subject to disciplinary consequences and are subject sanctions imposed by both school administration and any extracurricular organization in which they have membership. Consequences may include, but are not limited to:  loss of privileges (attendance at dances,  proms,  and  other  school  activities);  detentions;  temporary or permanent exclusion from athletic teams or other school organizations; community service; suspension.
Procedural requirements applied to students not yet determined to be eligible for special education
1.       If, prior to the disciplinary action, a district had knowledge that the student may be a student with a disability, then the district makes all protections available to the student until and unless the student is subsequently determined not to be eligible. The district may be considered to have prior knowledge if:
a.       The parent had expressed concern in writing; or
b.       The parent had requested an evaluation; or
c.       District staff had expressed directly to the special education director or other supervisory personnel specific concerns about a pattern of 
  
===PAGE 52===
behavior demonstrated by the student.
The district may not be considered to have had prior knowledge if the parent has not consented to evaluation of the student or has refused special education services, or if an evaluation of the student has resulted in a determination of ineligibility.
2.       If the district had no reason to consider the student disabled, and the parent requests an evaluation subsequent to the disciplinary action, the district must have procedures consistent with federal requirements to conduct an expedited evaluation to determine eligibility.
3.       If the student is found eligible, then he/she receives all procedural protections subsequent to the finding of eligibility. 
PROCEDURES FOR DISCIPLINING STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES
 In general, all students are expected to meet the requirements for behavior as set forth in the student handbook and the school’s code of conduct. In accordance with Chapter 71B of the Massachusetts General Laws and with federal law IDEA 2004: Section 615 (k), and with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973: 29 U.S.C. Section 794 (A), the school may suspend or remove your child from his or her current placement for no more than 10 school days. Special provisions are outlined below for students with a documented disability who have an Individualized Education Program (IEP) or a Section 504 Plan.
Suspension of Students with Disabilities Procedures for suspension(s) not exceeding 10 school days:
 • Any student with a disability may be suspended for up to ten (10) days during a school year. Disciplinary decisions are the same as for students without disabilities. 
• Special circumstances exist if your child: possesses, uses, sells or solicits illegal drugs on school grounds or at a school-sponsored event; carries a weapon to school or a school-sponsored event; or inflicts serious bodily harm upon another person at school or a school-sponsored event. Under these circumstances, the principal may place your child in an interim alternate educational setting (IAES) for up to 45 school days. Your child may remain in this IAES for a period of time not to exceed 45 school days. Thereafter, your child will return to the previously agreed-upon placement unless a hearing officer has ordered another placement, or you and the school agree to another placement. Procedures for suspension of students with a disability when suspension exceeds 10 school days. 
• If your child is suspended for more than 10 school days in a school year, this removal is considered a “change of placement”. A change of placement invokes certain procedural protections under federal special education law and Section 504. 
• Prior to any removal that constitutes a change of placement, the school will convene a Team meeting to develop a plan for conducting a functional behavioral assessment (FBA) that will be used as the basis for developing specific strategies to address your child’s problematic behavior.
 • Prior to any removal that constitutes a change in placement, the school must 
  
===PAGE 53===
inform you that the law requires the school district consider whether or not the behavior that forms the basis of the disciplinary action is related to your child’s disability. This consideration is called a “manifestation determination”. Parents have a right to participate in this process. All relevant information will be considered including the IEP or Section 504 Plan, teacher observations, and evaluations reports. 
• At a manifestation determination meeting, the Team will consider: 
● Did the student’s disability cause or have a direct and substantial relationship to the conduct in question? 
● Was the conduct a direct result of the district’s failure to implement the IEP?
 • If the manifestation determination decision is that the disciplinary action was related to the disability, then your child may not be removed from the current educational placement (unless under the special circumstances). The Team will review the IEP or Section 504 Plan and any behavioral intervention plans. 
• If the manifestation determination decision is that the disciplinary action was not related to the disability, then the school may suspend or otherwise discipline your child according to the school’s code of conduct. For students with IEPs, during the period of time of removal from school that exceeds 10 school days, the school district must provide educational services that allow your child to continue to make educational progress. For students with Section 504 Plans, there is no automatic right to receive educational services beyond the 10th school day of suspension. Special circumstances for exclusion
 • Special circumstances exist if your child: possesses, uses, sells or solicits illegal drugs on school grounds or at a school-sponsored event; carries a weapon to school or a school-sponsored event; or inflicts serious bodily harm upon another person at school or a school-sponsored event. Under these circumstances, the principal may place your child in an interim alternate educational setting (IAES) for up to 45 school days. Your child may remain in this IAES for a period of time not to exceed 45 school days. Thereafter, your child will return to the previously agreed-upon placement unless a hearing officer has ordered another placement, or you and the school agree to another placement. For students with Section 504 Plans, there is no automatic right to receive educational services beyond the 10 th school day of suspension.
School personnel will provide Parent’s Notice of Procedural Safeguards (Special Education) or Notice of Parent and Student Rights Under Section 504 for students with disabilities prior to any suspension exceeding 10 school days in one school year. These notices will provide an explanation of the process should there be disagreement regarding the manifestation determination or any placement decision. Parent, guardian and/or student may petition the Bureau of Special Education Appeals for a hearing or the Office of Civil Rights (Section 504). Until issues are resolved, the student remains in his or her current placement.
❖Detention - Students are to report to detention on the day that it is assigned.  If the student is absent or dismissed from school, it is their responsibility to report to detention the following day.  If there is a conflict, it is the student’s responsibility to make arrangements with the detention monitor. ❖Saturday Detention - Students may be assigned to Saturday Detention for repeated violations of school rules, missed office detention, or offenses that are non-violent in nature.  Students assigned to Saturday Detention will spend up to 
  
===PAGE 54===
four hours of detention at school on a Saturday morning.  Failure to attend Saturday Detention or violate detention rules will result in–school suspension.  The following guidelines are in effect:
1.  Students will report to the Saturday Detention room at 8:00 a.m. with all books and study materials.
2.  Students are responsible for bringing academic assignments or outside reading books to detention.
3.  Any student who fails to abide by detention rules will be assigned to in-school suspension the following school day.
4.  The Saturday Detention supervisor will decide if detention credit is granted at the conclusion of detention, based on behavior and work completion.❖Suspensions and Expulsions: The Lunenburg School Committee maintains a comprehensive policy on suspensions and expulsions. Please see Section 5409 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct: Student Suspension, Exclusion, Expulsion, and Reporting) for more information.https://drive.google.com/file/d/11Dp36DfWPvpZbzDfBbVGxg0KKEoZiMTQ/view
❖In-School Suspension - Students will be assigned to in-school suspension for repeated violations of school rules or offenses that are non-violent in nature. Students assigned to in-school suspension will spend the entire day there. The following guidelines are in effect:
1.  Students will report to the in-school suspension room at 8:00 a.m. with all books and study materials. Locker trips will not be permitted after the start of the school day.
2.  Students are responsible for bringing academic assignments to in-school suspension.
3.  Any student who is unprepared for in-school suspension or fails to abide by in-school suspension rules could be suspended out-of-school for the day of in-school suspension and the following day.
4.  Lunch will be eaten in the in-school suspension room.
5.  Assignments due on the day of in-school suspension must be turned in to the in-school suspension supervisor before 2:30 p.m.
6.  The in-school suspension supervisor will decide if detention credit is granted at 2:30 p.m. based on behavior and work completion.
7.  In-school suspensions will be issued at the discretion of the administration.
  
===PAGE 55===
❖Out-of-School Suspension Policy - Suspension is a serious disciplinary action imposed by school officials to prohibit a student from attending school and to exclude that student from participating in or attending all school activities and events for the entire period of suspension. Suspended students must remain off school grounds for each day of the suspension. During the period of suspension a student may not participate in any co-curricular or extra-curricular activities or events, engage in any school-related athletic practice or game, or attend any school related event on or off campus.  Students are responsible for contacting their teachers via email to get assignments and are expected to make up all required work.
Suspension days are determined to be days when school is actually in session. Weekends and vacation days, or days when school is not in session, are not counted in the suspension process.
A parent conference is required before students may return to school following suspension.
Students participating in the STEP program are responsible for notifying their sponsors and advisors if they are suspended from school and will not be allowed on their STEP site during suspension.
❖Exclusion - The principal may initiate exclusion proceedings which shall be defined as excluding a student from regular classroom instruction and related school activities for a period exceeding ten (10) but not to exceed ninety (90) school days, when the student has acted in such a manner that the student’s removal is necessary to protect the physical/emotional safety of others, or in order to prevent substantial interference with the right of others to pursue an education. Educational services will be provided to students during the period of exclusion.❖Expulsion - Expulsion is the permanent removal of a student from the school and the school system.  Educational services will be provided to students during the period of expulsion. Except as otherwise provided for in M.G.L. Chapter 71, section 37H or 37H1/2, no student shall be expelled from school except by majority vote of the School Committee upon the recommendation of the superintendent and after a formal hearing pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 71 section 17. Said hearing shall conform to these guidelines:
1.   The student shall have the right to be present during the presentation of evidence. If witnesses against the student testify at the hearing, the student, the student’s attorney [and/or the student’s parent(s) or guardian(s)] shall be allowed to question such witnesses. The student or the student's attorney, has a right to present a defense including presentation of witnesses and/or documentary evidence. No evidence not presented at the hearing will be considered, unless the student consents to such consideration during the course of the hearing.
2.   The hearing shall be private.
  
===PAGE 56===
3.   A recording shall be made of the proceedings, and a written summary record shall be completed. 
❖School Committee Policies1. Tobacco Policy - Since September 1989, it has been unlawful for students enrolled in Massachusetts public schools to use tobacco products, including all forms of electronic cigarettes or E-cigarettes, of any type on school grounds or at school functions.   It is also illegal in our state to sell tobacco products to minors.   This means that both the use and the possession of tobacco products by pupils in school are not permissible.  It also means that teachers and administrators have the right to confiscate tobacco and related paraphernalia  (e.g. lighters, matches, etc.) from any student who brings it to school. Students who violate this policy will be subject to office detentions and/or suspension for first and subsequent offenses.  Furthermore, Lunenburg Public Schools, in compliance with state law (MGL Chap.71, Sec. 37H), expressly prohibits the use of any tobacco products within school buildings, school facilities, on school buses or on school grounds by any individual, student or adult, at all times, including school events off campus.
 5403  Alcohol, Tobacco and Drug Use by Students Prohibited Updated…
2. Alcohol and Drug Policy - Lunenburg High School is sensitive to the need for a rehabilitative approach to drug and alcohol abuse. Appropriate education, counseling, referral, and human understanding are the keys to such an approach.   However, in cases of violations of existing laws, school authorities are required to contact the police department.  Such contact is also necessary when the welfare of other students is at stake.
The use, possession, sale, or transfer of drugs, drug paraphernalia, and alcoholic beverages is prohibited on school property at all times and all school activities at any location. The use or possession of any pharmaceutical substance including over-the-counter medication by a student must be according to medical information previously filed with the school nurse.  No student is to provide any pharmaceutical substance to another student at any time.
In the event that a student is found to be in possession of any of the aforementioned items, or utilizing or under the influence of them at school, parents will be called to remove students.  The student will be suspended for a minimum of three days for the first offense (mandatory) and may be expelled in accordance with this Handbook and the Massachusetts General Laws.  In the event of suspension, on every subsequent offense, or on the first offense when a pattern of previous violations exists, enrollment in a drug and/or alcohol intervention program approved by the school will be recommended to the parents prior to readmission to school.  Subsequent 
  
===PAGE 57===
violations of this policy may result in increased disciplinary penalties.
Violation of the Alcohol and Drug Policy will also result in ineligibility for extra-curricular activities and organizations as well as athletic participation.   Lunenburg High School is a member of the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA) and is subject to and endorses their "Rules of Eligibility" which can be found at on the MIAA website.   Lunenburg High School’s standards of academic eligibility supersede the MIAA’s minimum standards.
Please note that, for offenses that occur in the summer or between seasons, the penalty will be assessed during the next season or semester.
In the event of suspension, the student will not be readmitted to school until it is determined that the student is no longer a threat to one’s self or others.  Students under the influence of or showing signs of having used alcohol or other drugs will be dealt with in the same manner.
Parents and guardians will be expected to meet their obligations for care and protection of children under Massachusetts law, and the school will act under those laws if its repeated recommendations are ignored by parents and guardians.
Lunenburg High School, compelled by an obligation to protect the student body, will act immediately in any violation of this policy.
The Lunenburg Public Schools has partnered with the Lunenburg Police Department and law enforcement agencies to perform unannounced canine patrols of school property.(School Committee Policy #5406).  
 SC Policy 5406 Approved 3-20-19.pdf
This service and its results are confidential.  Local and State Police Departments, along with the school principal, will determine when and the number of times this service is to be performed.  There is no people-to-canine contact when this service is being performed and the canines remain under the direction and control of the police at all times.  In the event that drugs, weapons or other unlawful or unauthorized items are found, parents will be notified.  All decisions concerning school discipline and police referral will be made by the Principal, or designated administrator, using existing school procedures.
3. Cheating and Plagiarism Policy - Lunenburg High School dedicates itself to instilling academic and moral values within our students. The concept of academic integrity embodies the standards we value. Academic integrity means that each student works as an individual on projects, homework, assignments, term papers, labs, quizzes, and tests. A teacher must explicitly permit collaboration among students or group participation 
  
===PAGE 58===
on assignments. Unless part of a group project assigned by the teacher, all work submitted by students must be their own. All of the words, concepts, and structure of an assignment must be the student’s own, unless the student properly acknowledges the sources of quotations or paraphrased ideas.
Plagiarism is presenting as one’s own creation the words or ideas of another without citing the original source. According to the MLS Handbook for Writers of Research Papers, plagiarism is derived from the Latin word plagiarius, meaning “kidnapper,” and is considered to be “intellectual theft.” Students need to conduct careful research, distinguishing between notes taken from other sources and ideas of their own (MLA Handbook, 5th edition, 30). Even if a student paraphrases an idea by using their own words rather than directly quoting another author, the student still needs to cite the original source of the idea because it is not their own invention.
Episodes of cheating and plagiarism undermine the academic integrity of this school. Students who cheat or plagiarize are dishonest and destroy the code by which all students must abide to ensure that their education means something. For this reason, cheating and plagiarism will not be tolerated at Lunenburg High School.
Examples of cheating and/or plagiarism include, but are not limited to:
● Copying the work, such as homework assignments or labs, of another student● Allowing another student to copy your work● Sharing a copy of your work with another student or receiving a copy of another students work, electronically or in paper form, without permission of the teacher● Providing answers on tests, quizzes, or homework through talking, signs, gestures, or copying● Using cheat sheets● Unauthorized collaboration or group participation on assignments● Use of AI, such as Chat GPT or other platforms, apps, etc. without specific permission or request of a teacher for that particular circumstance, assignment or situation.● Using materials not authorized by the teacher, including calculators, notes, translation websites, apps, phones, watches, etc.● Using any type of electronics or forms of electronic communication● Reusing old papers and essays● Using another’s words, ideas, or opinions as your own without using quotation marks and properly citing the source. This includes books, magazine or newspaper articles, and electronic sources.● Utilizing online translation resources (i.e. Google Translate) to produce parts of projects, homework, or other contributions in a world language classroom without express permission from the teacher● Cutting and pasting information from online sources Internet websites or online 
  
===PAGE 59===
database articles without proper citation● Buying or copying sections of an essay or term paper from a commercial Internet website● Paraphrasing another’s thoughts or ideas but not citing them● Passing in another student’s work (past or present) as your own
If a student is found to have cheated or plagiarized, the following steps will be taken:
A.  The teacher will notify parents by email or telephone call.
B.  The student may receive a grade of zero for the assignment.
C. A written report detailing the incident will be submitted to the administration.     
D.   Repeated violations may result in increasingly severe disciplinary        consequences.
4. Student Harassment - It is the policy of the Lunenburg Public Schools (the “District”) that all of its students have an education/work setting that is safe, secure, and free from harassment and bullying of any kind. The District will not tolerate harassment or bullying of any type. Conduct that constitutes harassment and bullying, as defined herein, is prohibited. This policy applies to student behavior, but all students, staff members, guests and contractors are protected.
(1) Definitions 
A.   Aggressor: Defined as any student or a member of a school staff who engages in bullying, cyber-bullying, or retaliation towards a student.
B.  Harassment: Defined as any threatening, insulting, or dehumanizing gesture, use of data or computer software, or written, verbal, or physical conduct which is derogatory to a person and designed to demean, intimidate, or have the effect of substantially interfering with an individual’s school/work performance. Such action may occur on the basis of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic status, gender, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or sensory, disability or by association with a person who has or is perceived to have one or more of these characteristics or for any other reason.
C. Sexual Harassment: Defined as any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other inappropriate verbal, written, electronically-transmitted, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, including but not limited to unwelcome comments, touching, written notes, pictures/cartoons or other inappropriate conduct such as leering, whistling, brushing up against the body, and/or commenting on sexual activity or 
  
===PAGE 60===
body parts. Harassment has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work or learning environment that takes place under any of the following circumstances:
1.      
When submission to such conduct is made, explicitly or implicitly, a term or condition of employment, instruction, or participation in school activities or programs;
 2.      
When submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used by the offender as the basis for making personal or academic decisions affecting the individual subjected to sexual advances;
 3.   When such conduct has the effect of unreasonably interfering with the individual's work, attendance at school or participation in academic or curricular activities, or
4.    When such conduct has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work or learning environment.
D.   Bullying: Defined as the repeated use by one or more students or member of a school staff, of a written, verbal, or electronic expression or a physical act or gesture or any combination thereof, directed at a victim that:(i) causes physical or emotional harm to the target or damage to the target’s property; (ii) places the target in reasonable fear of harm or of damage to his/her property; (iii) creates a hostile environment at school for the target; (iv) infringes on the rights of the target at school; or (v) materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly operation of a school.
Bullying includes direct behaviors like taunting, stealing, threatening, and unwanted physical contact. Bullying also includes indirect behaviors like deliberate exclusion, lying about someone, and spreading rumors. Bullying is a form of harassment.
In addition, it is understood that bullying can be pushing, shoving, hitting, as well as name calling, picking on, making fun of, laughing at and excluding someone. Bullying can be done in person or through the use of the internet and other technologies. Bullying causes pain and stress to victims and is never justified or excusable as “kids being kids”, “just teasing” or any other rationalization.   The victim is never responsible for being a target of bullying.
  
===PAGE 61===
E.  Cyber-bullying: Defined as the use of the Internet, cell phones or other electronic devices to send, post or text messages and/or images and material intended to hurt or embarrass another person. This may include, but is not limited to: continuing to send e-mail to someone who has said they want no further contact with the sender; sending or posting threats, sexual remarks or pejorative labels (i.e. hate speech); ganging up on targets by making them the subject of ridicule in online forums, and/or posting false statements as fact intended to humiliate the target; disclosure of personal data, such as the target’s real name, address, or school on websites or forums; posing as the identity of the target for the purpose of publishing material in their name that defames or ridicules them; sending threatening and harassing text, instant/direct messages, or emails to the target(s); and posting or sending rumors or gossip to instigate others to dislike and gang up on the target, which is determined to have a material and substantial interference with school activities or with the rights of students and teachers.
 Cyber-bullying shall also include the distribution by any electronic means of a communication to more than one person or the posting of material on an electronic medium that may be accessed by one or more persons, if the distribution or posting creates any of the conditions enumerated in clauses (i) to (v), inclusive, of the definition of bullying. Cyber-bullying is a form of bullying.
F. Hazing: Defined as any conduct or method of initiation into any student organization, whether on public or private property, which willfully or recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person. Such conduct shall include, but is not limited to, whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the weather, forced consumption of any food, liquor, beverage, drug or other substance or any other brutal treatment or forced physical activity which is likely to adversely affect the physical health or safety of any student or person, or which subjects any student or person to extreme mental stress, including extended deprivation of basic necessities(i.e. sleep, food) or extended isolation.
G.  Hostile environment: Defined in M.G.L. c. 71,§ 370, is a situation in which bullying causes the school environment to be permeated with intimidation, ridicule, or insult that is sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of a student’s education.
H.  Retaliation: Defined as any form of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment directed against a student who reports bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or witnesses or has reliable information about bullying.
  
===PAGE 62===
I.  School Staff: Includes, but is not limited to, educators, administrators, counselors, school nurses, cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic coaches, advisors to extracurricular activities, support staff, or paraprofessionals.
J. Target: Defined a student against whom harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, cyber bullying, or retaliation has been perpetrated.
(2) Expectations
Every district student has the right to travel to and from school on buses; participate in academic classes and vocational programs; walk the corridors and stairwells; have lunch in the cafeteria; participate in sports, clubs, activities and school functions; make friendships; express individuality; enjoy a sense of belonging; leave past mistakes behind; and achieve greater success and confidence. Students have the right to do all these things in safety, free from harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation, or humiliation. 
Certain students may be more vulnerable to become targets of bullying, harassment, or teasing based on actual or perceived characteristics, including race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic status,gender, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or sensory, disability or by association with a person who has or is perceived to have one or more of these characteristics. Each school in the District will create a safe, supportive environment for vulnerable populations in the school community and provide all students with the skills, knowledge, and strategies to prevent or respond to bullying, harassment, or teasing.
District employees and guests are similarly entitled to a safe and secure environment, where they are treated with civility and respect.
Under Massachusetts Law, harassment or bullying of any student or employee is prohibited:
(i)  on school grounds and property immediately adjacent to school grounds,
(ii) at a school-sponsored or school-related activities, functions or programs whether on or off school grounds,
(iii) at a bus stop, or on a school bus or other vehicle owned, leased or used by the District,
(iv) through the use of technology or an electronic device owned, leased or 
  
===PAGE 63===
used by the District,
(v) at a location, activity, function or program that is not school-related, or through the use of technology or an electronic device that is not owned, leased or used by The District, if the harassment or bullying creates a hostile environment at school for the target, infringes on the rights of the target at school or materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly operation of a school.
(3) Consequences -  Every complaint of harassment will result in an investigation of the circumstances and an interview of the offending person. Harassing behavior will be stopped. If a complaint is found to be deliberately false, there will be disciplinary consequences. If there is a pattern of deliberately false complaints levied against the same individual, it may be deemed an act of bullying or harassment.
Consequences and appropriate interventions for students who commit an act of bullying or harassment will result in, but will not be limited to, disciplinary consequences that could include counseling, loss of school privileges, detention, Saturday school, suspension or expulsion, and/or notification of the police.
Consequences and appropriate interventions for an employee found to have committed an act of bullying or harassment will be instituted in accordance with District policies, procedures and agreements.
Consequences and appropriate intervention for a visitor or volunteer found to have committed an act of bullying or harassment shall be determined by the Superintendent after consideration of the nature and circumstances of the act, including reports to appropriate law enforcement officials.
(4) Reporting an act of Bullying or Harassment
A. The building principal is responsible for receiving oral and/or written complaints alleging violations of this policy. If a reported bullying incident involves the principal or assistant principal as the alleged aggressor, the superintendent or designee shall be responsible for investigating the report, and other steps necessary to implement the Plan, including addressing the safety of the alleged target. If the superintendent is the alleged aggressor, the School Committee chairperson shall be responsible for investigating the report and other steps necessary to implement the plan, including addressing the safety of the alleged target.
B. All employees are required and must report, in writing, any instance of bullying or retaliation those employees have witnessed or become aware of to the principal or school official identified as responsible 
  
===PAGE 64===
for receiving such reports or both. Failure to report will result in action(s) or discipline, up to and including termination of employment.
C. Any other member of the school community with credible information that an act of bullying or harassment has taken place is encouraged to file a report, whether a target or a witness.
D. Any student (or parent/guardian on the student’s behalf) who believes he/she oneself to be a target of bullying or harassment is strongly encouraged to report and/or discuss the incident with an adult (teacher, counselor, nurse, administrator).
E. Complaints may be filed anonymously; however no disciplinary action shall be taken against a student solely on the basis of an anonymous report.
F. Complaints should be filed as soon as possible after the alleged incident(s). Failure to report incidents of harassment in a timely manner may have an adverse impact on the school’s ability to conduct a meaningful investigation.
A. If the principal or the assistant principal is the alleged aggressor, the report is made to the Superintendent who is responsible for the investigation. If the alleged aggressor is the Superintendent, the report is made to the Chair of the School Committee who will investigate.
 (5)  Investigation and Resolution - Every complaint of harassment will result in an   investigation of the circumstances and an interview of the offending person(s).
A. In situations involving students, parents will be informed of the situation and invited to participate in resolution discussions.
B. Failure to participate in an investigation and/or resolution meeting will result in appropriate discipline
C. The principal or designee will make a determination based upon all of the facts and circumstances. If, after investigation, bullying or harassment is substantiated, the principal or designee will take reasonably calculated steps to prevent recurrence and to ensure that the target is not restricted from participating either in school or in school activities from which they may benefit.
  
===PAGE 65===
D.Referral to law enforcement will be considered based on the circumstances.
E. Regardless of the determination’s outcome, any parent wishing to file a claim/concern or seeking assistance outside of the district may do so with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education via the Program Resolution System (PRS). That information can be found at http://www.doe.mass.edu/pqa.  Emails can be sent to compliance@doe.mass.edu , or individuals can call 781-338-3700. Hard copies of this information are also available at the superintendent’s office.
All attempts will be made to resolve the situation as confidentially and quickly as the circumstances permit. Harassing behavior will be stopped.
(6)  Retaliation - Retaliation in any form against any person who has made or filed a complaint relating to harassment is forbidden. Individuals accused of harassment, or involved in an investigation, will be warned that there can be no discussion or the incident and no retaliation against a student or employee who makes a complaint. If retaliation occurs, it could be considered grounds for dismissal of personnel and/or removal from the educational setting for a student. A referral to law enforcement may be made.
(7)  Confidentiality -  To the extent possible, all reports of harassment will be kept confidential, consistent with necessary investigation procedures, and with the goal of protecting the target and stopping the behavior. For further information about these guidelines, or help with sexual harassment problems or any other form of harassment, contact the Office of the Superintendent.
1.   To administer a physical restraint only when needed to protect a student and/or a member of the school community from immediate, serious, physical harm; and
2.   To prevent or minimize any harm to the student as a result of the use of physical restraint.
Refer to 603CMR 46,02 for more information.
                                                                FEES                                                                                
❖Returned Check Policy: Parents will receive a letter notifying them if their check written to the Town of Lunenburg was returned for insufficient funds. The letter will request that the amount of the check and the handling fees, in cash or 
  
===PAGE 66===
cashier's check, be sent to the office within 10 days of the date of the letter. We will not accept any more checks from these parties until the original amount and handling fee has been paid. The returned check will be charged a $25.00 handling fee.❖Reimbursement/Refund Process: In order to receive a reimbursement or refund, please check with the school secretary for guidelines.  Documentation that is required in order to be reimbursed: a canceled check front and back, and a completed reimbursement form reviewed and signed by the principal and Superintendent.             Reimbursement Form for Lunenburg Public School❖Voluntary Student Accident  Insurance for families: School insurance is available to parents. Cost is approximately $12.00 - $60.00 per student per year during school hours (including travel time). If you are interested in purchasing this, more information can be found at this link:                http://www.bollingerschools.com/myschool/insurance-Products.aspx?id=&schoolname=lunenburg❖  Student Activity Fee: Student activity fees support all extracurricular activities as well as field trips, assemblies, and funding for special events.  We rely on these funds to maintain a wide variety of options that enrich our school community. Payment of the student activity fee is required of all students who wish to participate in clubs, organizations, and any school activity. Students who fail to pay this fee will not be allowed to participate in extracurricular activities.  The activity fee must be paid during the first week of school. As per our policy – these fees will be waived for students who qualify for free or reduced lunch. Families experiencing extraordinary financial hardships may also request a fee waiver through the school administration.❖Class Dues: Class dues are collected to support and supplement class sponsored activities such as homecoming, class trips, dances, etc. Each fall the class officers, together with the class advisor, shall propose an amount as dues, to be paid by each student by the end of the first marking term.  All such financial obligations must be cleared to participate in class events and graduation.  In cases of genuine financial hardship, alternative arrangements can be made by administration. 
                                                            Policies                                                                           
This Handbook addresses Lunenburg High School’s (LHS) specific procedures for implementing certain portions of the Students and Instruction section of the District Policies. Please reference the District Policies for complete information.  
❖Non-Discrimination/Equal Education(Title IX):This will serve as notification that Lunenburg Public Schools complies with all regulations and procedures of Chapter 622. of the General Laws of Massachusetts, Title VI, Title IX, and Section 504. 
  
===PAGE 67===
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free from discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal opportunity investigation.
The Lunenburg School Committee maintains comprehensive policies on Community Relations, Administration, Fiscal Management & Non-Instructional Operations, Personnel, Students and Instruction, and School Committee functions. Those policies are regularly reviewed and updated as needed. The most current policies are available for download at the district website:  Lunenburg Public Schools - District Policies
The Students and Instruction section (Section 5000) of the District Policies contains detailed information on attendance, the instructional program, class size, student conduct, internet access network, interscholastic athletics, health and safety, and student welfare. The most current and complete copy of the Student and Instruction section of the District Policies is available for download at the district website:  5000 - Students and Instruction Sections Updated and Approved 6-20-18.pdf
❖Physical Restraint Policy 603CMR 46,02❖Physical Restraint Policy 5713(excerpt)It is the policy of the Lunenburg Public School District to promote an education/work setting that  is safe, secure, and conducive to learning, and to ensure that every student is free from the unreasonable use of physical restraint consistent with Massachusetts state law and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education physical restraint regulations.  Any time a restraint is administered, it is to be done with extreme caution and in a manner that prevents or minimizes harm to the student as a result of the physical restraint.  Physical Restraint Policy 5713 Updated & Approved 2015.pdf
1.   To administer a physical restraint only when needed to protect a student and/or a member of the school community from immediate, serious, physical harm; and
2.   To prevent or minimize any harm to the student as a result of the use of 
  
===PAGE 68===
physical restraint.
Refer to 603CMR 46,02 for more information.
Animals in School - Policy
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to providing a high quality educational program to all students in a safe and healthy environment.  5716 & 5716.01 Animals & Service Animals in School.pdf
 Introduction:●
Animals can be effective teaching aids and the positive benefits of the human-animal bond are well established. Since diseases can be transmitted from animals to people, and the district’s highest priority is the health and well-being of students, animals in the classroom necessitate certain safeguards.●
Animals may be brought into schools for instructional purposes only. By “instructional purposes” it is meant that the presence of animals directly supports the learning strategies or the achievement of the objectives of an approved educational program.●
The School Principals, in consultation with the Health Services Providers in each building, shall utilize the Department of Public Health publication “Animals in the Classroom: Recommendations for Schools" and review student health records to determine which animals may be allowed in the school building. The decision of the Principal shall be final.
Animals in the School - Procedures●
Teachers are to contact the principal and check with the school nurse regarding any known allergies existing among students in the classroom, prior to the Principal granting permission. If allergies exist, parents must be contacted for further direction.●
Teachers are responsible for notifying the principal, who maintains a school-wide inventory of live animals.●
Teachers must be aware of state laws regulating sale, distribution, and handling of animals.●
Only the teacher or students designated by the teacher are to handle the animals. If animals are to be kept in the classroom on days when classes are not in session, the teacher must make arrangements for their care and safety.○
Animals are not to be transported on school buses.●
Guide, Hearing and Other Service Dogs, Therapy Dogs, or Law Enforcement Dogs - These animals may be allowed in school or on school grounds with proof of current rabies vaccination, and consistent with the District’s policies on Service Animals and Use of Law Enforcement Dogs.●
Requests to have a service animal in the school will be put in writing to the Principal each year.● Written evidence of an approved service animal's training, and the handler's training, shall be provided to the school along with proof of the animal's current 
  
===PAGE 69===
rabies vaccination.●
The school shall not assume or take custody or control of, or responsibility for, any service animal or the care or feeding thereof. The owner or person having custody and control of the animal shall be liable for any damage to persons, premises, property, or facilities caused by the service animal, including, but not limited to, clean up, stain removal, etc.●
If, in the opinion of the School Principal or authorized designee, any service animal is not in the control of its handler, or if it is not housebroken, the service animal may be excluded from the school or program. The service animal can also be excluded if it presents a direct and immediate threat to others in the school. The parent or guardian of the student having custody and control of the animal will be required to remove the service animal from the premises immediately.●
If any student or staff member assigned to the classroom in which a service animal is permitted suffers an allergic reaction to the animal, the person having custody and control of the animal will be required to remove the animal to a different location designated by the Building Principal or designee and an alternative plan will be developed with appropriate staff. Such a plan could include the reassignment of the person having custody and control of the animal to a different classroom. This will also apply if an individual on school transportation suffers an allergic reaction. In this case, an alternate plan will be developed in coordination with appropriate school and transportation staff including the involvement of the parents/guardian of the student.●
When a student will be accompanied by a service animal at school and/or in other district facilities on a regular basis the animal’s owner, handler, and any other person who will have custody and/or control of the animal will be required to sign a document stating that they have read and understood the foregoing statements. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools has partnered with the Lunenburg Police Department and law enforcement agencies to perform unannounced canine patrols of school property. (School Committee Policy 5406).  Policy 5406 Interrogations Search and Seizure Approved 3-20-19.pdf
This service and its results are confidential. The Police Department along with the School Principal will determine when and the number of times this service is to be performed. There is no people-to-canine contact when this service is being performed and the canines remain under the direction and control of the Police Department at all times. In the event that drugs, weapons, or other unlawful or unauthorized items are found, parents will be notified. All decisions concerning school discipline and police referral will be made by the Principal, or designated administrator, using existing school procedures.
❖Insufficient Funds/Negative Balance      Policy 3701.01 (excerpt)It is the philosophy of the Lunenburg Public Schools that well-nourished students are more engaged, productive students. The Lunenburg Public Schools 
  
===PAGE 70===
considers payment of school breakfast/lunch fees the responsibility of students’ parents/guardians. School breakfast/lunch is made available to all students at the daily meal rates established by the School Committee or at a reduced rate or no cost for students who meet the National School Lunch free/reduced lunch eligibility guidelines. Information and application forms for free and reduced breakfast/lunch are available at the district website www.lunenburgschools.net  No child will be denied a meal due to a negative account balance. 3701.01 FOOD SERVICE INSUFFICENT FUNDS APPROVED 3-1-23.pdf
❖Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy 5402Students and staff of LHS have the right to a learning and working environment that is safe, secure, and free from harassment and bullying of any kind. Bullying and harassment is strictly prohibited. The Lunenburg School Committee maintains a comprehensive Anti-Bullying and Harassment policy. Please see Section 5402 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct: Anti-bullying and Harassment) for more information. SC Policy 5402 Approved 3-20-19.pdfAdditional information regarding bullying prevention & intervention can be found on our website at:Lunenburg Public Schools - Bullying Prevention & Intervention 
❖Dress Code:  Policy 5412(excerpt below)Students should dress appropriately adding to a positive, productive school environment. Student dress is unacceptable if it is a distraction to the learning process, is considered to be offensive, or if it affects the health, rights, and/or safety of the person or others. Clothing, jewelry, or related apparel which refers to alcohol, drugs, tobacco, profanity, or suggestive double-meaning will not be permitted. Students who do not adhere to the dress code will be dealt with in a disciplinary manner.Administration retains the right to prohibit any clothing not mentioned that is deemed a distraction from the educational process. Administration will make judgments on any questionable attire on a case-by-case basis and make modifications to this code at its discretion. Exceptions to the code may be approved by the administration for instances such as Spirit Week, athletics, religious and/or medical circumstances
STANDARDS FOR STUDENT DRESSStudents are expected to exercise responsibility and good judgment in all behavioral matters including their style of dress.
Students should dress in a manner consistent with the academic nature of our school as well as reflecting sensitivity to and respect for the rights of 
  
===PAGE 71===
others.  Articles of clothing which are distracting or disruptive to the educational process, which violate common standards of decency and modesty, which display words, slogans, pictures, etc. which are obscene, disruptive, and/or advocate or are symbolic of illegal behaviors, such as direct references to drugs, gangs, alcohol etc. are not acceptable. Hoods may not be worn over a student's head at any time.  Although hats may be worn in the building, teachers have the authority to require students to remove their hats while in class. Any staff member who feels that a student’s dress is in violation of this policy may send that student to the office where the principal or assistant principal will make the final determination.  Students who fail to comply with the LHS dress code may face disciplinary consequences, be asked to change clothing, or be sent home. Parents will be contacted.                                                
Public Complaints                                                                  
Residents have the right to bring complaints to the School Committee. The Committee   will refer complaints back through the proper administrative channels for solutions  before investigation or action. Exceptions will only be made when the complaints concern Committee actions or Committee operations.
The School Committee believes that complaints are best handled and resolved as close to their origin as possible and that the professional staff should be given every opportunity to consider the issues and attempt to resolve the problem prior to involvement of the School Committee. The proper channeling of complaints regarding instruction, discipline or learning materials will be as follows:
1. Teacher2. School Building Administrators3. Director of Instruction4. Superintendent5. School Committee
If a complaint, which was presented to the School Committee and referred back through the proper channels, is adjusted before it comes back to the Committee, a report of the disposition of the matter will be made to the Committee and then placed in the official files.
                                   School Support Organizations 
Parent’s Advisory Council for Special Achievers in Lunenburg (PAC/SAL):
  
===PAGE 72===
  Lunenburg Public Schools - PACSAL
Chapter 766 of the Massachusetts State Law regarding Special Education requires each school district to have a Parent’s Advisory Council.  In Lunenburg, the parent’s council is called the Parent’s Advisory Council for Special Achievers of Lunenburg (PAC/SAL).  PAC/SAL is a system-wide organization of parents, teachers and administrators working in partnership to promote an innovative educational environment where children with disabilities have equal access to the educational opportunities and school environment where all children are encouraged to reach their educational potential.  PAC/SAL promotes communication and programs within the community to encourage understanding, acceptance, and inclusion of children with disabilities.
PAC/SAL is a resource for parents regarding their rights and responsibilities under Chapter 766 and IDEA (federal law regarding Special Education), offering a variety of forums/workshops, a newsletter, a library of resources, and a network for parents of children with disabilities and provide opportunities to share information and discuss matters of relative interest and concern regarding our children. PAC/SAL meets regularly. There are no dues or fees for membership and all meetings are open to everyone.
Lunenburg Parent-Teacher Organization:http://www.lunenburgpto.org The PTO is a system-wide organization where parents, teachers, administrators and community members are united in their efforts to promote the highest advantages in education for the children of Lunenburg. The PTO provides a wide variety of programs for both adults and children some of these include cultural enrichment programs, parenting, health and school related forums. Dues are a modest $5 per family that entitles the member to be either an active or a non-active participant in the organization and to receive a newsletter four to five times during the school year.
PTO Board meetings will be held on the second Monday of each month at the Lunenburg Middle High School Library and will start promptly at 7:00 PM. The meetings will adjourn at approximately 9:30 PM. Any parents, teachers or community members are welcome to attend. An agenda will be sent to all board members and all administrators prior to the meeting as a reminder.
School Advisory Council: The Lunenburg School Committee believes that the school is the key unit for educational improvement and change. Successful school improvement is best accomplished through a school-centered, decision-making process. The Educational Reform Act of 1993 requires the formation of “School Councils”. These councils are to be broadly representative of the school population and community at large. Membership consists of the principal, parents of students attending school, teachers, and a representative from the community at large. The 
  
===PAGE 73===
School Council meets regularly throughout the year and works with the principal in the identification of student needs, review of the annual school budget, and overall school improvement. The LHS School Advisory Council will be charged with successfully creating School Improvement Plans that enhance and improve the total school environment.
APPENDIX A                           **2024-2025 Calendar to be inserted below
  
===PAGE 74===
APPENDIX B
  

===PAGE 75===
Please sign and return this page to your student’s Advisory or homeroom teacher by September 28
th
WE HAVE READ THE ENTIRE  LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL  HANDBOOK FOR 2024-2025.
Student Signature                                                                               Homeroom ___________
Parent Signature________________________________Date ________________
INTERNET USE POLICY
I understand and will abide by the Network and Internet Use Policy 5501:https://drive.google.com/file/d/11Dp36DfWPvpZbzDfBbVGxg0KKEoZiMTQ/viewLPS 1-1 Device Agreement.pdf
I further understand that any violation of the regulations above is unethical and may constitute a criminal offense. Should I commit any violation, my access privileges may be revoked, school disciplinary action may be taken, and/or appropriate legal action.
Student Name _______________________________________________
Student Signature  ___________________________________________
As the parent or guardian of this student, I have read the Network and Internet Use Policy 5501.  I understand that this access is designed for educational purposes.  Lunenburg School District has taken precautions to eliminate controversial material. However, I recognize it is impossible for the Lunenburg School District to restrict access to all controversial materials and I will not hold them responsible for materials acquired on the network. Further, I accept full responsibility for supervision if and when my child's use is not in a school setting. I hereby give permission to give my child access to the Lunenburg School District network, including access to the Internet and certify that the information contained on this form is correct.
Parent or Guardian's Name ________________________________
Signature_____________________________________________
Date__________________
  
===PAGE 76===
APPENDIX CChain of Communication
Classroom Issues Involving an Individual Child (classroom procedures, behavior, grades, schedule, teaching strategies) 
STEP 1a– Classroom Teacher, Special Education Teacher or Related Service Provider; if not resolved… STEP 1b – If appropriate – School Guidance Counselor, Psychologist, Social Worker; if not resolved…STEP 2 – Building Administrator; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Superintendent of Schools 
Curriculum and Instruction Questions  (textbooks, materials used, assessments) 
STEP 1 – Math Specialist, Literacy Specialist/Title I Coordinators; if not resolved…STEP 2 – Director of Teaching & Learning; if not resolved…STEP 3 – Superintendent of Schools 
504 Plans 
STEP 1 – Classroom Teacher STEP 2 – Assistant Principal/Building-based 504 CoordinatorSTEP 3 – Principal STEP 4 – District 504 Coordinator STEP 5 – Superintendent of Schools 
Special Education 
STEP 1 – Teacher, Special Education Teacher, Related Service Provider; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Team Chairperson/School Psychologist; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Building Administrator; if not resolved… STEP 4 – Director of Special Services; if not resolved… STEP 5 – Superintendent of Schools 
  
===PAGE 77===
Medical Concerns 
STEP 1 – School Nurse; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Nurse Leader; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Building Administrator; if not resolved… STEP 4 – Superintendent of Schools
Behavioral Health/Guidance Department 
STEP 1 – Guidance Counselor, Social Worker; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Building Administrator; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Director of Special Services; if not resolved… STEP 4 – Superintendent of Schools 
General & Special Education Transportation (school bus incidents only)
STEP 1 –Building Administrator; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Director of Special Services (special ed transportation) or Superintendent’s Office (general education transportation)
General Education Transportation (inquiries other than bus incidents)
STEP 1 – Superintendent’s Office
Special Education Transportation (inquiries other than bus incidents)
STEP 1 - Special Services Office; if not resolved…  STEP 2 - Special Services Director
Athletics  (Grades 6-12) 
STEP 1 – Coach; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Athletic Director; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Building Administrator; if not resolved… STEP 4 – Superintendent of Schools 
Extended Day or Early Learning Center
  
===PAGE 78===
STEP 1 – Senior Aide, or Associate Director; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Director of Community School Programs; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Superintendent of Schools 
Food Service 
STEP 1 – Cafe Manager at School; if not resolved… STEP 2 – Director of Food Services; if not resolved… STEP 3 – Superintendent of Schools
  
===PAGE 79===
APPENDIX D
Lunenburg Public SchoolsCommunication Plan
These are the types of routine communications you will receive via email:
●        
Principal’s Weekly Emails each Friday afternoon (from your child(ren)’s school)
●        
Community News on Friday Afternoon (from the district office)
●        
Superintendent’s Highlights & Spotlights at the beginning of each month
●        
Superintendent informational/update letters (COVID-19 and other topics)
●        
Informational presentations on district work
●        
School Committee meeting agendas on Monday late afternoon/evening for Wednesday night meetings held the 1
st
 & 3
rd
 Wednesday of each month September-June (If additional meetings are scheduled, the agenda will be sent the day it is posted at Town Hall)
We ask that you open and read all emails for information and updates in a timely manner. 
These are the types of communications you will receive via email, robocall and text:
●        
Emergency or urgent/time sensitive information (info regarding late buses, lockdowns, etc.)
●        
School cancellations/delayed openings
●        
Any matter requiring timely parent/guardian action (completing forms/surveys – such as the transportation form or back to school forms)
●        
Email subject line will indicate - Community News, Update, Information, Urgent, Action Needed
●        
Reminders for meetings, surveys, or events may be provided via text only.
We ask that when you see that you missed a call from the Central Office or school phone number, please listen to your voicemail message and check your email for the same message before contacting the school or Central Office to ask what the call was regarding.
  
===PAGE 80===
Additional information regarding text communications:
●        
Texts will be identified on your phone as L Public S with a short message after. If you receive a text that is not identified this way, it is NOT from our district or school and should be deleted.
●        
There is a 148 character limit for texts, so you may receive a short text from us asking you to open your email for more detailed information.
●        
Due to the character limit, there may be restrictions regarding attaching a PDF or embedding a link (if this occurs, the PDF or link will be provided via email)
●        
If you decide to opt out of the text message feature, this means you are opting out of ALL text messages from the District & School, even urgent or emergency messages.
This is the type of information available on our website:
●        
School/district calendars with important dates – school vacations, no school holidays, first/last day of school (including 5 additional days)
●        
Transportation Information (includes the policy, procedure, forms, etc.)
●        
Special Services Information & Resources
●        
School lunch menus
●        
School Committee meeting documents
●        
Athletic Schedules
●        
Community events and activities of local organizations (including scouts and youth sports registrations)
●        
New student registration
●        
Student and family resources
●        
Staff directory
Chain of Communication
We have posted a written Chain of Communication on the website.  It is also included in the back of the school handbooks.  This document guides you in the proper protocol to share concerns or ask questions on different topics.  Please move through the proper steps and only progress to the next step if your concern is not resolved. 
We are hopeful that having outlined what type of communications you can expect from us and what we are asking of you regarding those communications will help improve communication for all.  We always welcome feedback and use that feedback to make improvements whenever possible.
  
===PAGE 81===
 
 
  