===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON- INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS  3000 
 
ACCOUNTS 3300 
 
FISCAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING 3301 
 
The Superintend ent will shall be ultimately responsible for receiving and properly accounting for 
all funds of the school system, maintaining effective internal controls so as to assure the efficie nc y 
of operations; adequate safeguarding of property; assurance of expenditures in accordance with 
programs under which revenues are received; and compliance with applicable laws and 
regulat io ns.
 
 
The accounting system used will shall conform with state requirements and with good accounting 
practices, providing for the appropriate separation of accounts, funds, and special moneys. 
 
The School Committee will shall receive periodic financial statements* from the Superintende nt 
showing the financial conditio n of the school department.  Such other financial statements as may 
be determined necessary by either the Committee or the administration will be presented as found 
desirable. 
 
Legal Ref.:  M.G.L. Ch. 41, Sec. 35 
 
*See policy #3102 
 
MASC: 
The Superintendent will be ultim ately responsible for receiving and properly accounting for all funds of the 
school district, maintaining effective internal controls so as to assure the effectiveness and effi ciency of 
operations; adequate safeguarding of property; assurance of ex penditures in accordance with program s 
under which revenues are received; and com pliance with applicable laws and regulations The accounting 
system  used will conform  with the Uniform  Massachusetts Accounting System  as well as good accounting 
practices, providing for the appropriate separation of accounts, funds, and special m onies.  
 
The School Com m ittee will receive periodic financial statem ents from  the Superintendent showing the 
financial condition of the school departm ent. Such other financial statem ents as m ay be determ ined 
necessary by either the Com m ittee or the adm inistration will be presented as found desirable.  
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REF.: MGL Ch. 44:38 
603 CMR 10:00 
2 CFR 200.303 
 
CROSS REFS: DBJ Budget Transfer Authority 
 
DIE Audits 
 
NOTE: References to town or city charters may be appropriate at this category, and the content 
of the policy should be changed accordingly. 
 