===PAGE 1===
COMMUNITY RELATIONS 1000 
COMMUNITY USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES 1200 
 
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES     1202 
 
It is the policy of the Lunenburg School Committee to permit responsible organizations (where the 
main purpose is to benefit the citizens of Lunenburg) the use of school buildings and athletic fields 
to the extent that there is no interference with the educational programs. The complete control of 
school buildings and equipment is, by law, vested in the School Committee, and the administration 
of the rules and regulations governing the buildings is delegated to the Superintendent of Schools 
or his/her designee. 
 
Use of school facilities shall be granted within the limits prescribed in Chapter 71, Section 71, of 
the Massachusetts General Laws and acts in amendment or addition thereto. 
 
This policy covers all functions/events which are held in the Lunenburg Public Schools after school 
hours, Monday through Friday, and anytime on Saturdays and Sundays. 
 
School facilities are not avai lable to private individuals for personal profit. Non -School 
organizations utilizing the schools are charged custodial costs and fees based upon a schedule 
approved by the School Committee.  Facility rental fees for Lunenburg governmental bodies 
executing governmental functions will be waived, but custodial and other related event costs will 
be charged.  Facility rental fees for town recreational programs, with the exception of youth sports 
seasonal programs, will be waived; custodial or other related costs will be charged. 
 
Priorities For Use of School Facilities 
 
Use of the School Facilities for Annual Town Meeting and for polling is reserved for the Town on 
the first and third Saturdays in May and the first Tuesday in November. During Annual Town 
Meeting the school facilities and grounds will not be available for use other than scheduled 
academic testing. Priorities for use of school facilities, including buildings, playgrounds, and 
athletic fields shall be as follows: 
 
1. Lunenburg School Activities (extended-day, student performances, student athletic 
events, dances, graduation, school councils, school committee, etc.) 
2. Lunenburg Community Education School Programs and Activities 
3. Lunenburg School Support Groups (PTO, PAC/SAL, etc.) 
4. Lunenburg Town Related and Lunenburg Youth Sport Organizations 
5. Lunenburg Youth related non-profit organizations (Scouts) 
6. Lunenburg Non-Profit groups 
7. Community Recreational Use (non-scheduled Lunenburg resident use of tennis courts, 
basketball courts, track, fields, playgrounds) 
8. All other
===PAGE 2===
Scheduling 
 
Priority 
 
1. Lunenburg Public School activities receive priority over other organizations for the use of 
buildings and fields. 
2. Lunenburg Public Schools administration, faculty and staff are required to complete 
applications for the use of their own buildings and fields. 
 
Cancellations 
 
1. Scheduled activities may be preempted by Lunenburg Public School activities only with 
the permission of the Superintendent of Schools and provided a notice of no less than 72 
hours is given to the permitted organization. 
2. On days when school has been canceled because of emergency conditions, the school 
buildings and grounds may not be available. However, all scheduled use will automatically 
be canceled unless the renter contacts the school being rented to confirm the availability of 
the school. 
 
Conditions of Use All Facilities 
 
All facilities use requests must be completed on-line. Contact the Director of Facilities for access 
to the system. Certificate(s) of Insurance, if applicable, must be submitted to the Director of  
Facilities. 
 
1. It is required that all renters obtain and review this policy in its entirety. All renters 
must sign an acknowledgement form indicating that they have received and reviewed 
this policy. 
2. There are certain restrictions upon the use of school property and the building. The user 
is solely responsible for the fulfillment of the regulations of the following: 
a. State Department of Public Safety 
b. State and Local Fire Laws 
c. State and Local Police Laws 
d. Internal Revenue Admission Laws 
e. State Laws Relating to Rental of School Facilities 
3. Organizations (any group or entity excluding the Lunenburg Public Schools) using 
school buildings or grounds under a permit from the Superintendent’s Office are 
restricted to the use of the rooms and/or spaces assigned to them. Participants found 
wandering unsupervised in a school building will be immediately escorted out of the 
facility. The sponsor of the activity will be notified. 
4. Organizations using school buildings will use only one designated entry and exit. An 
adult, an individual over the age of twenty-one (21), must be present during the entire
===PAGE 3===
duration of the activity to monitor and control the entering and existing of children 
participating in the activity. Organizations are required to provide adult supervisio n at 
the entrance of the facility during the entire duration of the event to ensure the safety 
of the participants and the facility. 
5. Specific bathroom facilities will be designated for use and only those bathrooms will 
be accessible. The organization using  the building will be responsible for monitoring 
these bathrooms. 
6. Use of tobacco and/or nicotine  products, alcohol, marijuana  and any other  illicit 
substances are prohibited on school property. 
7. The applicant must be present throughout the time the faciliti es are being used. The 
applicant is responsible for the decorum of the group, including spectators. 
8. When minors are using a facility, they are required to have supervision on a 1 to 10  
ratio basis. At least one adult 21 years or older must be present at all times. 
9. Food and/or beverages are only permitted in cafeterias/all -purpose rooms. Eating or 
drinking in auditoriums or gymnasiums is not permitted. Only pre -packaged food and 
beverages for resale are allowed through the concession stand. 
10. Any damages sus tained to the facility and/or equipment during its use will be 
considered the responsibility of the renting organization. The renting organization will 
be billed for any repairs needed to restore the facility and/or equipment to its original 
state. 
11. No electrical apparatus shall be connected to any lighting system unless it is first 
inspected and approved by the district approved auditorium manager or technical staff 
personnel. 
12. In all cases where gymnasiums are used for athletic purposes, participants are required 
to wear athletic shoes. 
13. Cleats/turf shoes are not permitted on the track. Participants must not put cleats/turf 
shoes on until participants are on the turf field. 
14. School kitchens are available only when proper lunchroom employees are employed 
(at an additional expense) to supervise and protect the interests of the Lunenburg Public 
Schools Applicants must contact the Food Services Director to arrange for the specifics 
and receive an estimate of the costs. 
15. Entrance to the property shall be permit ted ONLY via the designated entrance for the 
school in use. All doors to the facility shall remain LOCKED at all times, except that 
custodial personnel shall unlock main entry doors for entrance by authorized groups as 
scheduled (fifteen minutes before and after scheduled start). 
16. Access to facility will be available only as indicated on the approved application form. 
17. Equipment of the building user, such as scenery and furniture, may not be moved into 
or out of the building during school hours. 
18. Anyone utilizing the MS/HS auditorium must employ school personnel appropriately 
trained to operate the lighting, curtains, drops, scenery, etc. It is the policy of the 
Lunenburg Public Schools not to loan school materials and equipment to individuals or 
groups. 
19. All vehicles are strictly prohibited from parking in fire lanes. There shall be no double 
parking. There shall be no parking in handicapped designated spaces without the proper
===PAGE 4===
RMV issued placards or license plates. This will be enforced by the Lunenburg Police 
Department, and violators are subject to being ticketed and/or towed. 
20. There shall be no parking or driving on any school property in conjunction with any 
function unless prior approval is granted by the Superintendent. Upon approval a permit 
will be issued and must be displayed while on school grounds.  Any vehicles on school 
property must be operated by licensed drivers. 
21. All non-school or town governmental related activities MUST be completed and the 
premises vacated by 10:00 p.m. 
 
Personnel: 
22. The custodian on duty shall be responsible for the supervision of the building and 
equipment, safety precautions in the building, cleaning of the building after its use, and 
for any services required by the renter in accordance with the use of the facilities 
approved. 
23. Custodians have no responsibility to groups, other than as described above. 
24. Police coverage may be required for a particular activity. The applicant is responsible 
for making these arrangements and for payment of the same. 
25. School facilities are not available for use without a custodian on duty. 
 
Advertising: 
 
The District is not responsible for advertising of non-school events. Any advertising 
associated must identify by name the sponsoring group.   
 
Insurance Coverage: 
 
The organization shall procure and maintain insurance against claims for injuries or losses 
to persons or property that are alleged to have arisen in connection with the activities, 
underlying this application, of the organization and any agents, representatives or 
employees. Insurance companies must be licensed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
or otherwise acceptable to the School Department. The cost of such insurance, including 
required endorsements or amendments, shall be the sole responsibility of the organization. 
Full disclosure is required for any non-standard exclusions. 
 
 
 
1. A copy of certification of insurance, with minimum limits of $3,000,000 for general 
liability (covering bodily injury and property damage combined, and personal injury) 
must be attached to the application and forwarded to the Director of Facilities for 
review prior to the date of the activity and before final approval for use is granted.

===PAGE 5===
2. All Certificates of Insurance must include the Town of Lunenburg as 
additional named insured. 
 
 
1. Neither the School Department nor its custodian on duty assumes any 
responsibility for liability to the property of the renter. 
2. All decorations, furniture, trash and other materials used shall be removed 
immediately by the renter after the completion of the function. All decorations 
MUST be fire resistant. Changing equipment, electrical adjustments, driving nails 
or hanging decorations shall be done only with the consent of the Director of 
Facilities. At no time shall objects be attached to stage curtains. 
3. Lunenburg Public Schools will not be responsible for any material left behind. 
Such materials will not be saved and the renting organization will be charged for 
removal. 
Costs 
 
1. Custodial costs are charged to the using organization. 
2. Fees for building use are established by the School Committee on a regular basis. 
The rental charge for the use of school facilities will be a fixed fee, plus expenses 
for services listed below. All groups will be cha rged hourly for the custodial, 
auditorium control booth, or cafeteria services if warranted. 
3. Costs for trash disposal may be charged to using organization if the event requires 
dumpster pick-up in addition to the regular scheduled pick-up period. 
 
The building principal and Athletic Director in conjunction with the Director of Facilities 
shall have the responsibility for determining the amount of service help necessary for any 
rental. The final cost for any rental will be determined by multiplying the f lat rate per 
hour by the duration of rental and adding the cost of service workers required. The time 
of the custodial services charged will necessarily include the time required to prepare the 
particular facility for the rental, the time the facility is in use, and finally, the time required 
to restore the facility for school use following the rental. 
 
Community Recreational Use 
Recreational public use of the facilities must be consistent with the use(s) for which it was 
designed.  The district will have the authority, with School Committee approval, to post 
signage on campus indicating prohibited uses. 
Permits or requests for use of school facilities will not be granted (or may not be granted) 
where the proposed use or activity is prohibited, or inconsistent with the use(s) for which 
the space or facilities are designed. 
 
Voted Lunenburg School Committee October 20, 1999 
Reviewed Lunenburg School Committee November 7, 2001 & January 11, 2016 
Revised and Approved   July 16, 2007 & April 27, 2016 
Updated and Approved May 3, 2017 
Updated and Approved October 17, 2018 
Updated and Approved May 1, 2019 
   Updated and Approved January 20, 2021 
 
 
 
 
Clean-Up 