===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS 3000
FOOD SERVICE 3700
SCHOOL BREAKFAST/LUNCH PROGRAMLUNENBURG FOOD SERVICE 3701
INSUFFICIENT FUNDS/NEGATIVE BALANCEMEAL CHARGING POLICY 3701.02
The Lunenburg lunch program is committed to providing students with healthy and nutritiousmeals while also maintaining financial integrity of the meal program and minimizing any impact onstudents with meal charges. Unpaid meal charges place a large burden on school districts as thelunch program is a self- supporting entity within the district. The purpose of this policy is to ensurecompliance with Federal reporting requirements of the United States Department of Agriculturechild nutrition program as well as provide a cohesive plan for oversight and accountability. It isunderstandable that there will be incurred meal debt. This policy will detail the maximum amountof negative balance students will be allowed and the collection of outstanding account balances.
 Meal charges and balances
 Students will pay for meals at the regular rate approvedby the school committee in accordancewith the meal status (Paid, Reduced or Free) each day. Families are encouraged to deposit fundsfor meals in student accounts before the balance reaches zero to avoid negative balances.  Whenan account enters the negative students are given verbal notification. Students will be allowed tocharge full reimbursable meals. When student accounts reach the insufficient funds status,parents/guardians will be informed by phone and email. For more information regarding insufficientfunds policy families can locate the policy on the Lunenburg public school food service webpage.If there is financial hardship, the parent/guardian should contact the food service director todiscuss payment options.
Students with insufficient funds are not permitted to purchase A la carte items including but notlimited to second meals, snacks, ice cream or additional beverages. The student will still beallowed to take a meal (a full reimbursable meal anything less is considered a la carte) that mealwill continue to be charged to the account at the standard rate based on meal status. Moreinformation regarding school meals or nutritional guidelines can be found on the Lunenburg publicschool food service webpage
 
Payment
 Parent/Guardian is responsible for payment to thefood service program and any meal chargesincurred. If parents/guardians have issues with student purchases they should contact foodservice for assistance. Parents/guardians may pay for meals in advance. Payment options: cash,check (written to the Town of Lunenburg) or use the online payment center which can be accessedon the Lunenburg Public Schools webpage. Students paying with cash or check will use paymentboxes located in or near school offices with the exception of the Primary school given the age ofthis group parents are encouraged to send payments in  student folders. All cash or checkpayments sent in should be in an envelope clearly marked with the student's full name and
===PAGE 2===
Student ID number. Envelopes are available in the front office of each school. Any remaining fundswhether positive or negative will carry over each school year.
All school cafeterias have a computerized point of sale system that maintains records of allmonies deposited and spent for each student and those records are available to parent/guardiansby setting up an account in PowerSchool. PowerSchool has low balance email alertparent/guardians are encouraged to use this feature.
Checks Returned for Non-Sufficient Funds
When a check is returned to the Treasurer’s Office for NSF, a letter will be sent to inform theparent(s) from the Treasurer.  Payment for the NSF check must be in the form of cash, cashier’scheck or money order.  Payment must be received within ten (10) days of the date of the letter.      The insufficient payment will be reversed from the student’s lunch account until notified that the re-payment has been received.
Refunds
Withdrawn Students
For anystudent whoiswithdrawn, awrittenrequest for arefundof anymoneyremainingintheiraccount must be submitted.  An e-mail request is also acceptable.
Graduating Students
Studentswhoaregraduatingat theendof theyear will needtosubmitawrittenore-mail requestto receive a refund. Funds can also be transferred to a sibling’s account with a written request.
 
Unclaimed Funds
All refunds must be requested within one year. Unclaimed funds will then become the property ofthe Lunenburg Public School lunch Program
ADOPTED (INSERT DATE) Page 2 of 2