===PAGE 1===
 
LMS Parent and Student Hybrid Reopening Guide
 
Building
 
Schedule
 
 
LMS Hybrid Schedule 2020-2021
 
 
Cohort
 
Schedule
 
 
 
 
Safety
 
ADDENDUM TO THE LMS STUDENT HANDBOOK
 
 
All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to.
 
Masks/face coverings will be required for all staff and students in all
 
grades.  These face coverings should be worn at all times (outside of mask
 
breaks.)
 
 
Students must wear a mask/face covering and maintain 6 feet of social
 
distancing between themselves and other staff and students.
 
There will be signs at entrances to the building  reminding students of the
 
safety protocols that are in place to keep everyone safe. There will be
 
stickers placed in the hallways that indicate six feet of space in between
 
students in order to assist with distancing.
 
Hand sanitizer will be available at each building entrance, and staff will be
 
monitoring each entrance upon student arrival and departure.. Students
 
will use hand sanitizer upon entrance into the building.
 
Lockers will not be used by students in order to minimize passing time.
 
Bathroom breaks for students have been developed by classroom
 
teachers to provide safe access to the bathroom during the school day. No
 
student will be denied use of a bathroom.
 
 
 
Monday
 
Tuesday
 
Wednesda
y
 
Thursday
 
Friday
 
Cohort A
 
Remote
 
In-Person
 
Remote
 
In-Person
 
Remote
 
Cohort B
 
Remote
 
Remote
 
In-Person
 
Remote
 
In-Person
 
Remote
 
Cohort
 
Remote all days
 
===PAGE 2===
Mask Breaks
 
Each homeroom has been assigned a mask break space outside the
 
school building. Teachers will utilize at least two mask breaks a day.
 
 
In addition to these mask breaks, homerooms attending special area
 
classes will transition outside the building, six feet apart, for an additional
 
two to four mask breaks a day.
 
 
If a student is attending class and suddenly is in need of an individual
 
mask break, they will be allowed to enter the hallway, stand on one of the
 
blue “six feet apart” stickers, remove their mask for a quick mask break
 
and then return to class with the mask back on the nose and mouth.
 
 
Students are not allowed to take mask breaks in the classroom.
 
 
Water Breaks
 
 
Classrooms
 
Students will be assigned to a cohort of learners in the middle school. The
 
first cohort will be the traditional interdisciplinary teaming of students (i.e,
 
7 Red, 7 White) approximately 70 students or less per team. During the
 
hybrid model students will further be split into cohorts to keep numbers
 
of students in classrooms small. These will be Cohort A and Cohort B.
 
Cohorts should generally have no more than 13 students.
 
Classrooms and desks will have been disinfected before student arrival.
 
There are approximately 24 desks in each classroom Students will have an
 
assigned seat in order to keep up to six feet of space between students
 
and teachers. Groups of homeroom students within a cohort will have
 
different student desk assignments.
 
When a cohort of students transitions within the team of classrooms,
 
students will sit at desks that were not occupied by the prior homeroom.
 
This allows for transitioning students to always be seated at a disinfected
 
desk.  Upon exiting a classroom, students are dismissed by row, use hand
 
sanitizer, the teacher sprays the row that was occupied by the cohort, row
 
by row. The next cohort comes in and sits at desks that were not occupied
 
by students of the last class.
 
Teachers will be instructed to monitor the classroom environment and
 
immediately report to administration if a student violates the mask or
 
social distancing guidelines.
 
===PAGE 3===
Bins will be provided in the hallways to drop off micro fibers provided for
 
classroom cleaning and returned to the classroom.
 
 
Students will travel to special areas and enrichment classes with their
 
homeroom assigned cohort. Students will attend that special area class
 
for approximately 6 weeks and then transition to a different special area-
 
Ex: PE first 6 weeks, Art six weeks, Tech 6 weeks. When transitioning to
 
special area and enrichment classes, we will attempt to transition as much
 
as possible outdoors for an additional mask break.
 
Physical education classes will have further guidelines in order to keep
 
students and teachers safe. Gym classes will happen outside when
 
weather allows. Students will need to be 10 feet from each other if
 
participating in a strenuous activity. Equipment will be disinfected in
 
between cohorts of students. Classes may happen inside with appropriate
 
spacing and activity level for indoor gym.
 
 
Grade eight classes are a little different. Students are in interdisciplinary
 
teams, but also split to attend leveled math classes and foreign language.
 
Teams of students will be approximately 65 students. Students will also be
 
split into cohort A and Cohort B. Students might not necessarily travel as
 
homerooms as the schedules differ when attending math or foreign
 
language classes. Students will travel as homeroom cohorts to special
 
areas classes.
 
 
Arrival &
 
Dismissal
 
Bus
 
When students arrive on the bus, they will be directed by an adult to exit
 
their bus two buses at a time.  For example, bus 1 and bus 10 will exit the
 
bus and enter the building. This staggered exit of the bus keeps large
 
amounts of students from forming.  Face coverings must be worn at all
 
times.
 
Once off the bus, students will be directed to enter the building through
 
three separate entrances. Grade 8 will enter through the main entrance
 
up the stairs and into their homeroom classrooms. Grade six will enter the
 
building through the middle school staff entrance (located at the end of
 
the middle school wing next to the staff parking lot). Grade 7 will enter the
 
building through the double doors next to the grade six entrance, up the
 
stairs and into their homeroom classrooms. The two entrances will be
 
separated by two double doors.
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
STAFF MEMBERS WILL BE PRESENT TO ASSIST STUDENTS ON WHERE
 
TO ENTER THE BUILDING
 
Dismissal
 
Bus students will be dismissed first, by homerooms in a staggered fashion
 
to allow for social distancing. After bus students are dismissed, walkers
 
and pickups will be dismissed in a staggered fashion.
 
 
Pick Up & Drop
 
Parent drop off will continue in the drop off circle adjacent to the
 
bus circle with students from different families remaining 6 ft.
 
apart.  After buses leave the bus circle, an administrator will signal
 
that it is ok for parents to enter the bus circle to accommodate
 
additional parent drop off.
 
 
Teaching &
 
Learning
 
The full scope and sequence of the curriculum will continue to be taught
 
in all subjects.  Social-emotional learning components will also be
 
embedded.
 
Hybrid instruction will be rich and rigorous in order for students to engage in
 
the curriculum. 
​
 New instruction must be included each day.
 
Work/activities/assignments will be graded traditionally, and grades
 
should be recorded in PowerSchool.
 
Teachers will be responsible to plan in-person ​
and remote lessons​
. Best
 
practices from remote and in-person teaching and learning will be
 
combined to create a blended experience for students.
 
 
Google Meets are required according to the building schedule on Monday.
 
All teachers are required to live stream students in remote cohorts. A
 
schedule of Google Meets will be provided to students. ​
schedule and
 
participate in a Google meet with their hybrid cohort that is home cohort
 
Tuesday -Friday. The Google Meet time will provide instruction, guide
 
students with remote learning experiences and assist students in problem
 
solving while remote learning. Teachers will provide times of hybrid
 
Google Meets to administration in order to establish a schedule for
 
students and families.
 
 
Live streaming ​
Protocols
 
 
All students are expected to follow the LMS Hybrid Schedule of periods
 
when attending hybrid, remote, live streamed classes.
 
===PAGE 5===
 
Students should be signed in by the start time of each period and
 
cameras should be turned on.
 
LMS Handbook ​
ADDENDUM TO THE LMS STUDENT HANDBOOK​
 rules
 
apply.
 
 
Absences / Attendance
 
 
 
Parents are to telephone 978- 582-4710 (Tues.-Fri.) or email
 
 
mbowen@lunenburgonline.com​
 (Mon.) at the middle-high school if a
 
student will be absent, tardy, or dismissed from class or a Google Meet.
 
This includes absences which are due to technical difficulties.  ​
Students
 
cannot excuse themselves.
 
 
 
 
IT / Technology Expectations
 
 
In the event of technical difficulties with a device or connection, students
 
must contact our district IT department at the following email address:
 
ChromebookSupport@lunenburgonline.com​
 ​
and follow up with an email
 
directly to subject teachers.
 
If a technical difficulty prohibits students from participating in class and /
 
or completing work, then students must take responsibility and do the
 
following: (1) contact the teacher(s) as soon as possible; (2) determine if
 
there is another way that the work can be completed; (3) contact
 
chromebooksupport@lunenburgonline.com.
 
 
 
A technical difficulty does not excuse students from acquiring the
 
content and / or from completing the work.
 
 
Academic Expectations
 
 
Teachers may verbally give assignments during the Google Meet, so
 
participation and attendance are essential.
 
 
 
Students must submit work in the manner outlined by their teachers.
 
 
Uploads should be upright and cropped so the work is visible (other items
 
in background should not be included).
 
 
Behavioral Expectations
 
 
Students should have a designated work area as free from distractions as
 
possible. Ideally, students will work at a desk or other surface in a quiet
 
space. Students should ​
not​
 be participating in classes while laying in bed.
 
Items such as hoods and blankets should not obstruct the face of the
 
student.
 
===PAGE 6===
Joining Meets from vehicles, stores and distracting places is not allowed. If
 
this is unavoidable, students should contact their teacher(s) prior to the
 
Meet(s) to make any necessary arrangements.
 
 
Cameras should be kept on at all times during Google Meets, students’
 
faces should remain​
 ​
fully​
 ​
 visible, and they should be prepared for
 
participation.
 
 
 
 ​
Invisibility and/or non responsiveness could be taken as a lack of
 
participation and be reflected in a student’s grade.
 
 
 
Student attire and the computer screen background during Google Meets
 
must adhere to the student handbook and be school appropriate. Hoods
 
should not be worn. “Turn on background blur” may be chosen in Google
 
Meet by clicking the three dots at the bottom right of the Meet screen.
 
Under ​
no​
 circumstances should anyone be recording or photographing
 
teachers, paraprofessionals, and / or peers ​
for any reason​
.  This is illegal
 
and will result in a disciplinary action.
 
 
Any student who skips a Meet class will be written up and addressed by
 
administration. This action will be added to discipline files​
.
 
 
Students should have their video turned on during all Google Meets.
 
Recorded teacher videos (which do not include students or student
 
participation) may be created and posted as a form of instruction.
 
Attendance must be taken each day for both in-person and remote
 
cohorts.
 
 
Assignments/instruction for the remote cohorts must be posted in Google
 
Classroom for student access.
 
Teachers will respond to parents and students in a timely manner, within
 
48 hours of receiving communication.
 
Students who have failed to engage during the remote days for the hybrid
 
model more than two times will be addressed in a communication home
 
and a brief student communication upon their return to school.
 
Subsequent absences after communication with home and the student
 
will be brought to guidance. Guidance will communicate with home and
 
provide strategies for engagement. If continued absences from remote
 
learning continue after the following steps have been taken,
 
administration and the Student Engagement Coordinator will develop an
 
engagement plan for the student and family.
 
 
Teachers are expected to reach out to homeroom students and families
 
within the first 1-2 weeks of the school year via email or telephone call. It
 
===PAGE 7===
will also serve as notifying families which team, homeroom and cohort the
 
student is assigned to.  For the remainder of the school year it is
 
encouraged that teachers reach out to students and families at a
 
minimum of twice a month for non-academic check-ins.
 
Virtual Open Houses will be scheduled using Zoom.
 
Lunch
 
Students must remain at least 6 feet apart when they are eating lunch.
 
Students will be eating lunch in the cafeteria. We will utilize the cafeteria
 
to 25% of its occupancy (70 students). Tables have been marked where
 
students may sit six feet apart and facing in the same direction. We will
 
have homeroom assigned seating. Masks will be removed and placed on a
 
napkin, the outside facing down, until finished eating when the mask is
 
placed back on. Tables have been fitted with a laminated placemat of the
 
Blue Knight to indicate where students should sit to maintain social
 
distancing.
 
 
There are no opportunities for students to reheat any lunch brought from
 
home.
 
 
Transitions from lunch will mostly happen outside the school building,
 
weather permitting, with staff supervision back to academic or special
 
area classes.
 
Students will continue to be seated in the interdisciplinary groups and
 
cohorts in the cafeteria, but both grade level teams will be utilizing the
 
cafeteria at the same time. Seats and tables will be disinfected by staff in
 
between lunch periods.
 
Remote
 
Learning
 
 
When Hybrid Groups are Learning From Home
 
 
===PAGE 8===
Remote
 
Learning
 
 
 
Check Google Classroom every day.
 
 
Be at your Google Meets on time.
 
 
Stay at your Google Meets for the entire period.
 
 
Have your camera on the entire meet (virtual backgrounds are allowed).
 
 
Sign-in to Google Classroom every day.
 
 
Complete assignments on time, and upload them via Google Classroom.
 
 
 
Be seated at a comfortable workstation, and have all materials ready.
 
 
Avoid eating snacks or lunch during meets.
 
 
Stay muted unless called on to participate.
 
 
Use the chat feature for questions and appropriate, relevant comments.
 
 
If you have any difficulty completing work, communicate with your
 
teacher.
 
 
 
Follow the Acceptable Technology Use guidelines at all times.
 
Take care of your device, and have it charged daily.
 
 
 
 
 
How can teachers help students succeed?
 
Remote
 
Learning
 
 
 
Post daily assignments by 7:45 AM on remote days.
 
 
Create a daily remote schedule for students to follow.
 
 
Set up consistent Google Meet times per class for face-to-face
 
interactions.
 
 
Check email at least twice during school hours to respond to
 
student questions.
 
 
Take attendance at all meets to help students engage in remote
 
learning.
 
Grade assignments within a reasonable time period, and provide
 
feedback.
 
 
Schedule small-group or one-on-one extra help sessions as
 
needed.
 
 
Communicate with students and parents regarding issues or
 
concerns, and schedule family conferences if needed.
 
 
===PAGE 9===
 
 
 
 
What can parents do at home to help?
 
Remote
 
Learning
 
 
 
Help create a calm, quiet and distraction-free space for students to
 
work during Google Meets.
 
 
Ensure that Chromebooks are charged, and school supplies are
 
available.
 
Encourage your student to follow the school day schedule
 
provided.
 
 
 
Google Meets are designed for students to access independently,
 
foster student independence and allow your student to attend
 
Google Meets independently, without parent support.
 
 
Encourage your student to reach out to their teacher for help on
 
assignments so we avoid parents being the sole problem solvers
 
and to  avoid sitting with students doing their work with them.
 
Check your email for correspondence from teachers or
 
administration.
 
 
Communicate with teachers, as needed with questions or
 
concerns, especially if your student is struggling to complete
 
assignments.
 
If your child is unable to attend scheduled meetings, please inform
 
the teacher and the office right away - they will be marked absent.
 
 
 
 
 
 