===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
INCOME 3200 
 
ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS AND BEQUESTS  3204 
 
Upon approval notification, grants and gifts to the District shall be reviewed and accepted by the 
School Committee before expenditure or use. Donations from industry, business, or special 
interest groups may be accompanied by an acknowledgement, but advertising or promotion 
through school channels or on school grounds and school property is prohibited. 
 In the case of gifts from industry, business, or special interest groups, no extensive advertising 
or promotion may be involved in any donation to the schools. 
The School Committee may accept on behalf of and for the school department any bequest or gift 
or money or property for a purpose deemed by the School Committee to be suitable, and may 
utilize such money or property as designated. 
 
The School Committee may set up criteria to be met in the acceptance of gifts, and the procedure 
for examining and evaluating offers of gifts to the district. 
 
Gifts shall automatically become the property of the school district. Any gift of cash, regardless 
of donor intent, will be accepted by vote of the School Committee kept separate from the general 
fund, and expended at the discretion of the Committee, as provided by law. 
The Superintendent may accept on behalf of the school system and subject to the criteria set forth 
by the School Committee all non-monetary gifts with fair market value less than $2,000, subject 
to review of the School Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting. 
 
All non-monetary gifts with a fair market value greater than $2,000 and all monetary gifts must be 
on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled School Committee meeting for vote on acceptance. 
 
Pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53A, all monetary gifts accepted by 
the School Committee will be deposited with the Tow n Treasurer for school purposes.  
Expenditures of such gifts for the purpose(s) approved by the School Committee can then be made 
without further appropriation. 
 
The Committee directs the Superintendent to assure that an appropriate expression of thanks is 
given all donors. 
MASC File:  KCD - PUBLIC GIFTS TO THE SCHOOLS 
In accordance with state law, all grants and gifts to the District shall be reviewed and accepted by the 
School Committee before expenditure or use. In the case of gifts from industry, business, or special interest 
groups, no extensive advertising or promo tion may be involved in any donation to the schools.  
Gifts will automatically become the property of the school district. Any gift of cash, regardless of donor 
intent, will be accepted by vote of the School Committee kept separate from the general fund, an d 
expended at the discretion of the Committee, as provided by law.  
===PAGE 2===
The Committee directs the Superintendent to assure that an appropriate expression of thanks is given all 
donors.  
SOURCE:  MASC - Updated 2022 
LEGAL REFS.:  M.G.L. 44:53A, 71:37A 
CROSS REFS.:  DD, Grants, Proposals, and Special Projects 
GBEBD, Online Fundraising and Solicitation--Crowdfunding 
 