===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
ACCOUNTS 3300 
 
AUDITS  3302 
 
The financial records of the Town of Lunenburg Public Schools shall be subject to an annual audit 
by a private accounting firm as a part of the annual Town audit.   
 
Additionally, the district is also subject to the following: 
 
● End of Year Financial Compliance Report: Every Massachusetts school district must 
submit the results of this report to the Department. This End of Year report must be 
submitted to the Department on or before September 30 each year. 
● Student Activity Account: As determined by the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education, student activity accounts are audited per their requirements. 
 
The Committee may request an additional audit of the school district's accounts at its discretion. 
 
 
MASC:  
As a department of the Town of Lunenburg, an audit of the school department's accounts shall be 
conducted annually by external auditors within nine months of the close of the fiscal year. This review shall 
be conducted in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles and the Government 
Auditing Standards issued by the U. S. Comptroller General.  
 
The Committee will consider the recommendations made by the auditor for maintaining an efficient sy stem 
for recording and safeguarding the school department's assets.  Additionally, the district is also subject to 
the following: 
 
● End of Year Financial Compliance Report: Every Massachusetts school district must submit the 
results of this report to the De partment. This End of Year report must be submitted to the 
Department on or before September 30 each year.  
● Government Accounting Standards Board 34: The District is covered in these government 
financial statements of revenue and expenditures of the municip ality. 
●  Federal grant audits: As a district that spends about thresholds required, the district is subject to 
the Single Audit Act.  
● Student Activity Account: As required by state law, student activity accounts are audited  annually. 
For accounts that exceed $25,000, the School Committee shall consider an audit conducted by an 
outside firm every three years The Committee may request an additional audit of the school 
district's accounts at its discretion.  
 
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REF: M.G.L. 44:38-40; 71:47; 72:3 
CROSS REFS: DI, Fiscal Accounting and Reporting 
JJF, Student Activity Accounts 
 
===PAGE 2===
NOTE: References to a town or city charter may be appropriate here. The content of these 
references may require a change in the content of a policy adopted by a local School Committee 
in this area. Not every district is subject to the single audit act; check thresholds. 
 