===PAGE 1===
 
MIAA SMC Feb. 2021 
 
MIAA Sports Medicine Committee 
Cold Weather Reference Document 
 
This document was created to outline best practices for sports and cold weather that are backed 
by many published documents.  Additionally, a cold weather Wind Chill Determination chart 
published by USA Soccer is included for reference and guidance.  These guidelines can be 
utilized to prepare for the cold, modifications for outdoor activities in responses to cold 
temperature and cold injuries to be most aware of. Please be aware these guidelines should be 
used in the absence of any form of precipitation (ex. Snow, rain, etc.). In the case of precipitation 
AND cold weather, medical staff or athletic training services on site are should be responsible 
for final decisions regarding outdoor athletic activity due to the increased risk of cold injuries in 
this specific environment.  
Wind-Chill Temperature Recommended Guidelines 
≤0℉ Cancel all planned events, practices, and outdoor workouts and 
reschedule (or move indoors if facility allows) 
≤10-15℉ -All athletes not actively participating (due to injuries, illness, 
eligibility, etc.) shall remain indoors  
-Limit outdoor exposure time to no longer than 60 consecutive 
minutes 
-After 20 consecutive minutes of outdoor practice, allow for 
indoor re-warming for at least 15 minutes before returning outside 
-Re-warming: allow for athletes to raise body temperature by 
being inside and changing base layer of clothing 
-All practice plans should be mindful of outdoor temperature and 
be modified to include decreased “down time”  
-Encourage all athletes to continuously move when on sidelines 
during games 
≤20℉ -All participants should be required to wear extra clothing and 
accessories to cover any exposed skin including, but not limited 
to, pants, long sleeve shirts, hats, and gloves. Athletic trainers or 
other medical staff present should make 
adjustments/recommendations for additional winter clothing or 
equipment as seen fit.  
-All athletes not actively participating (due to injuries, illness, 
eligibility, etc.) should remain indoors 
≤25℉ -Be alert, aware, and attentive to possible signs of cold injury 
-All participating athletes should take all precautions to continue 
to cover any exposed skin. Hats, gloves and extra layers should be 
worn, at minimum, during warm-ups but encouraged during the 
entire practice 
-All athletes not actively participating (due to injuries, illness, 
eligibility, etc.) should take all precautions on the sidelines by 
covering any area of exposed skin and continuing to move around 
===PAGE 2===
 
MIAA SMC Feb. 2021 
 
rather than stay stationary 
Cold Injuries and Illnesses 
 
Early Warning Signs - Recognition 
● Core temperature between 98.6° to 95° 
● Continuous shivering 
● Numbness, pain, burning or abnormal sensation of the extremities 
● Slurred speech 
 
Signs and Symptoms of Hypothermia 
● Aggressive shivering 
● Pale skin appearance 
● Core temperature dropping below 98.6 
● NOTE: Hypothermia can have many 
signs/symptoms and progresses in 
stages; consult with athletic trainer 
immediately if these signs are apparent 
Signs and Symptoms of Frostbite 
● Pain 
● Burning, numbness, or tingling in 
extremities (fingers and toes 
specifically) 
● Minor skin irritation (itchy skin) 
● Slight skin discoloration (grayish-
yellow) 
Signs and Symptoms of Chilblain/pernio 
(ulcers that result from over-exposure of 
bare-skin to cold temperatures) 
● Red or cyanotic (blue) lesions 
(typically found on the fingers) 
● Lesions are tender to touch 
● Swelling 
● Itching, numbness, burning, tingling of 
the extremities 
● Skin necrosis (tissue death) 
 
 
Treatment/Referral  
The following procedure should be carried out if athletic training staff is NOT PRESENT at time 
of injury/illness.  
1. Immediately contact personnel from school’s sports medicine department 
2. If no sports medicine staff are available at time of need, activate EMS, carry out 
emergency action plan procedures, and have athlete transported to nearest medical 
facility for evaluation and treatment 
 
NOTE: Any athlete that has been referred to a medical facility for further evaluation 
regarding cold injury/illness should receive clearance from their school’s sports medicine staff 
PRIOR to returning to any form of athletic activity. 
===PAGE 3===
