===PAGE 1===
ANTI-BULLYING AND HARASSMENT POLICY 
 
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION                                                                                            5000 
 
STUDENT CONDUCT                                                                                              5400 
STUDENT HARASSMENT                                                                                      5402 
 
It is the policy of the Lunenburg Public Schools (the “District”) that all of its students have an 
education/work setting that is safe, secure, and free from harassment and bullying of any kind. 
The District will not tolerate harassment or bullying of any type. Conduct that constitutes 
harassment and bu llying, as defined herein, is prohibited. This policy applies to student 
behavior, but all students, staff members, guests and contractors are protected. 
 
(1) Definitions 
a. Aggressor is a student or a member of a school staff who engages in bullying, 
cyber-bullying or retaliation towards a student. 
b. Harassment: “Harassment” means any threatening, insulting, or dehumanizing 
gesture, use of data or computer software, or written, verbal, or physical 
conduct which is derogatory to a person and designed to demean, intimidate, 
or have the effect of substantially interfering with an individual’s school/work 
performance. Such action may occur on the basis of race, color, religion, 
ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic 
status, gender, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or 
sensory, disability or by association with a person who has or is perceived to 
have one or more of these characteristics  or for any other reason. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities 
or employment or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, 
creed, national origin, ancestry, ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, 
gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy 
related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and protective 
hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who 
have reported possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have 
assisted in an investigation, or who have otherwise exercised their rights under 
this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff who violate these policies may 
be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or dismissal. 
 
race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation, 
marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran 
status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic 
information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. 
Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such 
===PAGE 2===
discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal opportunity 
investigation. 
 
*race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, 
hair texture, hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
c. Sexual Harassment:  ‘Sexual Harassment” means  unwelcome sexual 
advances, requests for sexual favors, and other inappropriate verbal, written, 
electronically transmitted, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, including 
but not limited to unwelcome comments, touching, written notes, 
pictures/cartoons or other inappropriate conduct, such as leering, whistling, 
brushing up against the body, and/or commenting on sexual activity or body 
parts. Harassment has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or 
offensive work or learning environment that takes place under any of the 
following circumstances: 
 
1. When submission to such conduct is made, explicitly or implicitly, a 
term or condition of employment, instruction, or participation in school 
activities or programs; 
 
2. When submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is 
used by the offender as the basis for making personal or academic 
decisions affecting the individual subjected to sexual advances; 
 
3. When such conduct has the effect of unreasonably interfering with 
the individual's work, attendance at school or participation in 
academic or curricular activities, or 
 
4. When such conduct has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, 
or offensive work or learning environment. 
 
d. Bullying: “Bullying” is defined as the repeated use by one or more students 
or member of a school staff, of a written, verbal or electronic expression or 
a physical act or gesture or any combination thereof, directed at a victim 
that: (i) causes physical or emotional harm to the target or damage to the 
target’s property; (ii) places the target in reasonable fear of harm or of 
damage to his/her property; (iii) creates a hostile environment at school for 
the target; (iv) infringes on the rights of the target at school; or (v) 
materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly 
operation of a school. 
 
Bullying includes direct behaviors like taunting, stealing, threatening, and 
unwanted physical contact. Bullying also includes indirect behaviors like 
deliberate exclusion, lying about someone and spreading rumors. Bullying 
is a form of harassment. 
===PAGE 3===
                         
e. Cyber-bullying: “Cyber-bullying” is defined as the use the internet, cell 
phones or other electronic devices to send, post or text messages and/or 
images and material intended to hurt or embarrass another person. This may 
include, but is not limited to: continuing to send e-mail to someone who has 
said they want no further contact with the sender; sending or posting threats, 
sexual remarks or pejorative labels (i.e., hate speech); ganging up on targets 
by making them the subject of ridicule in online forums, and posting false 
statements as fact intended to humiliate the target; disclosure of personal 
data, such as the target’s real name, address, or school on websites or 
forums; posing as the identity of the target for the purpose of publishing 
material in their name that defames or ridicules them; sending threatening 
and harassing text, instant messages or emails to the target(s); and posting 
or sending rumors or gossip to instigate others to dislike and gang up on the 
target, which is determined to have a material and substantial interference 
with school activities or with the rights of students and teachers. 
 
Cyber-bullying shall also include the distribution by any electronic means 
of a communication to more than one person or the posting of material on 
an electronic medium that may be accessed by one or more persons, if the 
distribution or posting creates any of the conditions enumerated in clauses 
(i) to (v), inclusive, of the definition of bullying. Cyber-bullying is a form 
of bullying 
 
f. Hazing: “Hazing’ is any conduct or method of initiation into any student 
organization, whether on public or private property, which willfully or 
recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other 
person. Such conduct shall include, but is not limited to, whipping, 
beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the weather, forced 
consumption of any food, liquor, beverage, drug or other substance or any 
other brutal treatment or forced physical activity which is likely to 
adversely affect the physical health or safety of any student or person, or 
which subjects any student or person to extreme mental stress, including 
extended deprivation of basic necessities (i.e. sleep, food) or extended 
isolation. 
 
g. Hostile environment, as defined in M.G.L. c. 71,§ 370, is a situation in 
which bullying causes the school environment to be permeated with 
intimidation, ridicule, or insult that is sufficiently severe or pervasive to 
alter the conditions of a student’s education. 
 
h. Retaliation is any form of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment directed 
against a student who reports bullying, provides information during an 
investigation of bullying, or witnesses or has reliable information about 
bullying. 
===PAGE 4===
 
i. School Staff includes, but is not limited to educators, administrators, 
counselors, school nurses, cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, 
athletic coaches, advisors to extracurricular activities, support staff, or 
paraprofessionals. 
 
j. Target is a student against whom harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, 
cyber bullying, or retaliation has been perpetrated. 
 
(2) Expectations 
Every District student has the right to travel to and from school on buses; participate in 
academic classes and vocational programs; walk the corridors and stairwells, have 
lunch in the cafeteria; participate in sports, clubs, activities and school functions; make 
friendships, express individuality, and enjoy a sense of belonging; leave past mistakes 
behind and achieve greater success and confidence. You have the right to do all these 
things in safety, free from harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation or 
humiliation. 
 
Certain students may be more vulnerable to become targets of bullying, harassment, or 
teasing based on actual or perceived characteristics, including race, color, religion, 
ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic status, 
gender, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or sensory, disability or by 
association with a person who has or is perceived to have one or more of these 
characteristics.  Each school in the District will create a safe, supportive environment 
for vulnerable populations in the school community, and provide all students with the 
skills, knowledge and strategies to prevent or respond to bullying, harassment or 
teasing. 
District employees and guests are similarly entitled to a safe and secure environment, 
where they are treated with civility and respect. 
 
Under Massachusetts Law, harassment or bullying of any student or employee is 
prohibited: 
(i) on school grounds and property immediately adjacent to school grounds, 
(ii) at a school-sponsored or school-related activities, functions or programs 
whether on or off school grounds, 
(iii) at a bus stop, or on a school bus or other vehicle owned, leased or used by 
the District, 
(iv) through the use of technology or an electronic device owned, leased or 
used by the District, 
(v) at a location, activity, function or program that is not school-related, or 
through the use of technology or an electronic device that is not owned, 
leased or used by The District, if the harassment or bullying creates a 
hostile environment at school for the target, infringes on the rights of the 
===PAGE 5===
target at school or materially and substantially disrupts the education 
process or the orderly operation of a school. 
 
(3) Consequences 
 
Every complaint of harassment will result in an investigation of the circumstances and 
an interview of the offending person. Harassing behavior will be stopped. If a complaint 
is found to be deliberately false, there will be disciplinary consequences.  If there is a 
pattern of deliberately false complaints levied against the same individual, it may be 
deemed an act of bullying or harassment. 
 
Consequences and appropriate interventions for students who commit an act of bullying 
or harassment will result in, but will not be limited to, disciplinary consequences that 
could include counseling, loss of school privileges, detention, Saturday school, 
suspension or expulsion, and/or notification of the police. 
 
Consequences and appropriate interventions for an employee found to have committed 
an act of bullying or harassment will be instituted in accordance with District policies, 
procedures and agreements. 
 
Consequences and appropriate intervention for a visitor or volunteer found to have 
committed an act of bullying or harassment shall be determined by the Superintendent 
after consideration of the nature and circumstances of the act, including reports to 
appropriate law enforcement officials. 
 
(4) Reporting an act of Bullying or Harassment 
 
a. The building principal is responsible for receiving oral and/or written 
complaints alleging violations of this policy. If a reported bullying incident 
involves the principal or assistant principal as the alleged aggressor, the 
Superintendent or designee shall be responsible for investigating the report, 
and other steps necessary to implement the Plan, including addressing the 
safety of the alleged target. If the Superintendent is the alleged aggressor, the 
School Committee Chair shall be responsible for investigating the report, and 
other steps necessary to implement the Plan, including addressing the safety of 
the alleged target. 
b. All employees are required and must report, in writing, any instance of 
bullying or retaliation the staff member has witnessed or become aware of 
to the principal or school official identified as responsible for receiving such 
reports or both. Failure to report will result in action(s) or discipline, up to 
and including termination of employment. 
===PAGE 6===
c. Any other member of the school community with credible information that 
an act of bullying or harassment has taken place is encouraged to file a 
report, whether a target or a witness. 
d. Any student (or parent/guardian on the student’s behalf) who believes he/she is 
a target of bullying or harassment is strongly encouraged to report and/or 
discuss the incident with an adult (teacher, counselor, nurse, administrator). 
e. Complaints may be filed anonymously, however no disciplinary action 
shall be taken against a student solely on the basis on an anonymous report. 
f. Complaints should be filed as soon as possible after the alleged incident(s). 
Failure to report incidents of harassment in a timely manner may have an 
adverse impact on the school’s ability to conduct a meaningful investigation. 
 
(5) Investigation and Resolution 
 
Every complaint of harassment will result in an investigation of the circumstances and an 
interview of the offending person(s). 
i. In situations involving students, parents will be informed of the situation and 
invited to participate in resolution discussions. 
ii. Failure to participate in an investigation and/or resolution meeting will 
result in appropriate discipline. 
iii. The principal or designee will make a determination based upon all of the 
facts and circumstances. If, after investigation, bullying or harassment is 
substantiated, the principal or designee will take steps reasonably calculated 
to prevent recurrence and to ensure that the target is not restricted in 
participating in school or in benefiting from school activities. 
iv. Referral to law enforcement will be considered based on the circumstances. 
v. Regardless of the outcome of the bullying, determination, any parent 
wishing to file a claim/concern or seeking assistance outside of the district 
may do so with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
Program Resolution System (PRS). That information can be found at; 
http://www.doe.mass.edu/pqa, emails can be sent to 
compliance@doe.mass.edu  or individuals can call 781-338-3700.  Hard 
copies of this information is also available at the Superintendent’s office. 
 
All attempts will be made to resolve the situation as confidentially and quickly as the 
circumstances permit. Harassing behavior will be stopped. 
(6) Retaliation 
Retaliation in any form against any person who has made or filed a complaint relating to 
harassment is forbidden. Individuals accused of harassment, or involved in an investigation, 
will be warned that there can be no discussion or the incident and no retaliation against a 
student or employee who makes a complaint. If retaliation occurs, it could be considered 
grounds for dismissal of personnel and/or removal from the educational setting for a 
student. A referral to law enforcement may be made. 
===PAGE 7===
(7) Confidentiality To the extent possible, all reports of harassment will be kept 
confidential, consistent with necessary investigation procedures, and with the goal 
of protecting the target and stopping the behavior. 
 
For further information about these guidelines or help with sexual harassment problems or any 
other form of harassment, contact the Office of the Superintendent. 
If the principal or the assistant principal is the alleged aggressor, the report is made to the 
Superintendent who is responsible for the investigation. If the alleged aggressor is the 
Superintendent, the report is made to the Chair of the School Committee who will investigate. 
CROSS REFERENCES:                    Student Handbook 
Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan 
 
LEGAL REFERENCES:                    Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, Section 703 
Title IX of the 1972 U.S. Civil Rights Act. 
Chapter 151C, Massachusetts General Laws 
M.G.L. Chapter 76 § 5 
M.G.L. Chapter 269 § 17, 18, 19 
M.G.L. Chapter 71, §§37H, 37O, 82, 84 
     Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - 
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
 
Approved by School Committee 10-15-14 
Updated & Approved by School Committee   03-20-19 