===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
EXPENDITURES 3400 
 
PURCHASING AND PURCHASING AUTHORITY 3401 
 
The acquisition of materials, equipment, and services will be centralized in the superintendent’s 
office. 
The Superintendent or their designee will serve as purchasing agent. The acquisition of 
materials, equipment, and services will be centralized in the Superintendent's office of the school 
district.  He/she They will develop and administer the purchasing program for the schools in 
keeping with legal requirements and with the adopted school budget. 
 
It shall be the responsibility of the Superintendent: 
● To procure materials, supplies, equipment, and services at the lowest possible cost 
consistent with the quality necessary for the proper operation of the District, thereby 
attaining the maximum value for each public dollar spent; 
● To maintain the District's reputation for fairness and integrity and to promote impartial 
and equal treatment to all who wish to conduct business with the District; 
● To encourage a mutually cooperative relationship with requesting departments, 
recognizing that successful purchasing is a result of team planning and effort; 
● To promote social and economic goals such as encouraging local, national, small, 
minority, and women-owned businesses to participate in bidding for District purchases. 
School purchases will be made only on official purchase orders approved for issuance by the 
appropriate unit head and signed by the superintendent, with such exceptions as may be made by 
the latter for emergency purchases, with prior approval of the superintendent, and those made 
with petty cash funds with prior approval of the principal. 
 
 
Legal Refs.: Ch. 71, Sec. 49A 
MASC: 
It shall be the responsibility of the Superintendent:  
• To procure materials, supplies, equipment, and services at the lowest possible cost consistent with the 
quality necessary for the proper operation of the District, thereby attaining the maximum value for each 
public dollar spent;  
• To maintain the District's reputation for fairness and integrity and to promote impartial and equal 
treatment to all who wish to  conduct business with the District;  
• To encourage a mutually cooperative relationship with requesting departments, recognizing that  
successful purchasing is a result of team planning and effort;  
• To promote social and economic goals such as encouraging local, small, minority, and women -owned 
businesses to participate in bidding for District purchases.  
The acquisition of materials, equipment, and services will be centralized in the Superintendent's office of 
the school district.  The Superintendent will d esignate the District's purchasing agent. They will develop 
and administer the purchasing program for the schools in keeping with legal requirements and within the 
adopted school budget.  School purchases will be made only on official purchase orders appro ved for 
issuance by the appropriate unit  
head and signed by the Superintendent or designee, with such exceptions as may be made by the latter for 
emergency purchases.  
===PAGE 2===
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L.; 30B; 71:49A 
 
 
 
Adopted Lunenburg School Committee April 26, 2001 
Reviewed September 23, 2009 
Revised & Approved 1-22-20 
 