===PAGE 1===
Civics Project 
Implementation
===PAGE 2===
On November 8, 2018, Governor Charlie Baker signed Chapter 296 of the Acts of 2018, An Act to promote 
and enhance civic engagement, which includes provisions related to student-led civics aligned to the History 
and Social Science Curriculum Framework. 
 
The law includes the following provisions related to student-led civics projects:
 
(c) Each public school serving students in the eighth grade and each public high school shall provide 
not less than 1 student-led, non-partisan civics project for each student; provided, however, that each 
such project shall be consistent with the history and social science curriculum frameworks adopted by 
the board pursuant to section 1E of chapter 69 and with structured learning time requirements as 
required under regulations promulgated by the board of elementary and secondary education. Civics 
projects may be individual, small group or class wide, and designed to promote a student’s ability to: 
(i) analyze complex issues; (ii) consider differing points of view; (iii) reason, make logical arguments 
and support claims using valid evidence; (iv) engage in civil discourse with those who hold opposing 
positions; and (v) demonstrate an understanding of the connections between federal, state and local 
policies, including issues that may impact the student’s school or community. Any student choosing 
not to participate in a particular group or class-wide project shall be offered the opportunity to develop 
an individual civics project, with approval by the principal.

===PAGE 3===
…
A. Student-Led: Students should make informed decisions about the issue, process, and goals for their civics project 
even as the teacher is setting the broader learning objectives.  Student choice defines this experience. In doing so, 
the teacher takes on the role of facilitator, offering guidance, choices, and suggestions, especially at key inflection 
points of the project. While the processes should follow the six stages of student-led civics projects, there is no 
prescriptive learning experience. Students reflect on and evaluate their own learning decisions within a larger 
classroom culture. Establishing that engaging with the process and continual improvement are the goals, not perfect 
mastery, is crucial to defining success of student-led civics projects. 
===PAGE 4===
B. Project-Based: Students achieve their learning objectives not by rote practice but by applying knowledge and skills 
for an extended period of time to achieve the goal of solving a real-world problem or answering a complex question. 
Students conduct an inquiry and demonstrate their learning by engaging with or presenting to the public, taking their 
work beyond the classroom.  Project-based learning not only offers greater student learning and engagement due to 
increased relevance to students’ lives, but also expands skills like communication, collaboration, critical thinking, time 
management, and problem-solving.  How is a project-based approach different from ‘doing a project’? Rather than 
completing a prescribed summative task meant to assess rote knowledge on the content of a unit, the unit is the project, 
with rigorous inquiry and critical thinking applied to real-world action.  
===PAGE 5===
C. Real-World: The skills students practice are transferrable to their lives outside of the classroom and into their 
futures as adult civic agents. By pushing past hypothetical scenarios or theoretical action, real-world application 
teaches students the power of their voices as constituents, even if they ultimately do not achieve 100% of their goals. 
Ideally, student-led civics projects involve developing a persuasive argument for the kind of real-world impact students 
want to see, rallying support for this impact, and engaging a relevant decision maker who can act in the direction 
advocated by the student. At minimum, this real-world project application involves student interaction with 
community stakeholders or real-world decision-makers who have the power to listen to students’ concerns and do 
something about them. 
===PAGE 6===
D. Rooted in an Understanding of Systems Impact: A strong student-led civics project aims for impact at the level 
of the system, as opposed to an isolated action that’s impact ends after completion.  For example, suppose a group of 
11th graders identify gun violence as a pressing issue in their community, particularly among youth. After researching 
potential solutions, they decided to take one or more of the following actions:
 Isolated Actions with Limited Scope:  Raise money to invite a guest speaker to talk about the impact of gun violence. 
 Goal Driven and Systems Impact:  
o   Advocate to pass S 1287, An Act regarding the prevention of illegal trafficking and gun 
violence among youth which was a recently introduced piece of legislation.
o   Develop programs that have officers reach out to youth to show the effects of gun violence in 
communities.
o   Organize a Gun Buyback Program in the city to reduce the risk of people getting hurt by guns 
in homes.
 
To strive for systems impact, student actions focus on the processes, policies, institutions, and people most connected to 
a root cause of an issue.  Typically, systems impact is measurable, and sustainable. To help students think past 
individual-level decision making and operate on the systems-level, have them ask “why” repeatedly to get to root causes 
of an issue.  Then, consider the people, institutions, policies, and processes that impact those root causes.
===PAGE 7===
E. Goal-Driven: Students should develop goals aimed at addressing the root causes of their issues in order to make long-term 
change. This may be through influencing public opinion on an issue and/or influencing a policy goal. 
 
·         Influencing  public opinion: These projects can include, but are not limited to, an awareness campaign carefully targeted at a 
specific audience, where impact can be measured, or projects that focus on rebuilding the civic fabric for discussion and debate 
among the community and decision-makers, including voters, around political choices.  
·         Influencing policy: These projects tend to fall into one of three categories—
o   Advocating for or newly introducing a policy or piece of legislation,
o   Advocating to change how resources (money or time) are used within a system, or
o   Advocating for an increase in youth voice or representation within government or community decision-making. 
Examples of policy-related projects include changing a school curriculum, advocating for a piece of legislation, supporting resource 
re-allocations for various community needs, or adding a youth voting member to the school committee.  
 
Students may be inspired by local, national, or global issues and should aim to find ways to impact change around an issue. There 
are benefits and challenges with choosing an issue at each level of scale. For example, localized issues may allow for more 
immediate and direct contact with decision makers while global issues require engagement with more ambitious goals and wider 
audiences. At any level, students should have real interaction with community and civic leaders, one of the most empowering parts 
of a civics project. Ultimately, students should see themselves as powerful agents of change and recognize the fact that 
their voice and contributions matter. 
===PAGE 8===
F. Inquiry-Based: Educators do not need to be the masters of the issue students choose to explore. Rather, student-led 
civics projects provide an authentic opportunity for students to practice research skills, to ask probing questions about 
real-world issues, and make judgements about the appropriateness and success of various research methods. 
Students have an opportunity to go beyond traditional research using scholarly articles and news sources, and to seek a 
well-rounded understanding of the project issue from individuals within the community by conducting surveys and 
interviews with a range of sources of information. Students should consider multiple points of view, from next-door 
neighbors to community leaders and elected officials, and in doing so develop an understanding of the breadth of the 
issue, including opposing viewpoints. 
===PAGE 9===

===PAGE 10===

===PAGE 11===
H. Action-Based: While both community service and student-led civics projects ask students to perform a 
service that benefits a community, there are differences in their approach that are important to distinguish.  
When doing community service, students often perform a service that benefits the community either by 
engaging in one-time event or ongoing direct volunteerism. A student-led civics project using the six stages 
requires students to take action toward achieving systems impact and to engage with decision-makers.  
===PAGE 12===
 Community Services Civics Projects
FOOD DRIVE SERVICE PROJECT
 Students organized a school-wide food 
drive and got other groups in the 
community to participate.  They were able 
to collect over 2,000 cans to donate to the 
local homeless shelter, which was more 
than the shelter had ever received through 
a single drive.
INSTITUTIONALIZING A DISTRICT-WIDE FOOD PANTRY
Students researched in their biology class how chronic 
hunger affects the body and its effects on young people in 
particular.  Students advocated to the City and School 
District for resources and then implemented a School-Based 
Food Pantry by partnering with the Merrimack Food Bank. 
FUNDRAISING FOR COLLEGE 
SCHOLARSHIPS
Students developed a concern for the cost 
of college and lack of access for many of 
their peers due to such costs.  They held a 
fundraiser to pay for a fellow student’s 
college fees.
ADVOCATING FOR STATE-LEVEL POLICY
After engaging in a unit in math class on the costs of 
college, financial aid formulas, and loan interest accrual, 
students decided to tackle the issue of college affordability.   
They joined organizations around the state in support of the 
Debt Free Future Act S.744/H.1221 that would provide free 
college tuition to all MA residents attending state colleges.   
===PAGE 13===
●
○
○
●
●
===PAGE 14===
Math – 3*
ELA – 4
Science – 3
Social Studies – 3
Foreign Language – 2
Phys. Ed. & Health – 2
Unified Arts -2
Program of Studies
Students must take a minimum of 5 credits 
in addition to the 19 listed to the left.
- Students must take Civic & 
Community Engagement (.5) unless 
they take English IV CSL (H)
===PAGE 15===
NEASC accreditation report:
Priority Area #3:
The school culture fosters civic 
engagement and social and personal 
responsibility (Standard 1, Principle 1.7)
===PAGE 16===
…
===PAGE 17===
Skills taught in this course beyond civic 
engagement:
●
●
●
●
===PAGE 18===
TIMELINE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF CIVICS PROJECTS
In May 2019, the Department communicated the expectation that LEAs would begin implementing the 2018 
History and Social Science Curriculum Framework and the student-led, non-partisan civics projects in the 
2019-2020 school year. LEAs are expected to fully implement the Framework and civics projects in the 
2020-21 school year, which includes engaging all 8th graders in the project as well as providing the project 
to all students once in high school. High schools may determine at what grade level the projects take place; 
full implementation in that course or grade level should begin in 2020-2021. The Department will collect 
information on local implementation of student-led civics projects via SIMS reporting in Spring 2021. 