===PAGE 1===
Spring Athletic Updates/Proposal 
Lunenburg Middle-High School  
 
OVERVIEW  
On March 12th, the MIAA Board of Directors voted to allow play with modifications for the following 
sports and activities. Baseball, Softball, Boys and Girls Lacrosse, Boys and Girls Track and Field, and 
Unified Track. The district athletic committee and Midland Wachusett League approved what has been 
adopted by the MIAA with further protocols and guidance for schools to help navigate and 
implement safety measures for the sports to occur.   
Projected start dates for spring:  
 Monday, April 26th 1st day of tryouts for High School Sports  
 Thursday May 6th, 1st day for spring sports competitions  
General Guideline Updates:  
 All athletes, coaches, staff, and spectators must wear a mask at all times during the practice or 
event, and remain social distance when not actively participating. Schools districts will continue 
to follow and adhere to any updated State/EEA and local board of health guidelines and 
recommendations.  
 Locker rooms are not allowed for use other than to change quickly  
 Practice time is limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes of sport-specific activity 
 No Concessions during the spring season 
Sport Specific Guidelines:  
Baseball  
Pre-Game Protocol: 
Pre-Game Meeting: 
 Limited to one umpire and one coach from each team. 
 No handshakes prior to and following the Pre-Game Meeting. 
 Starting Lineups/National Anthem: 
 Starting lineups are announced only – Players and coaches must refrain from high fives, 
handshake lines, and other physical contact with teammates, opposing players, coaches, 
officials, and fans. 
 Appropriate social distancing maintained by teams during the National Anthem. 
Team Benches, Dugouts and Personnel 
 Before, during and after the contest, players, coaches, umpires, team personnel and game 
administration officials should wash and sanitize their hands as often as possible. 
===PAGE 2===
 It is the responsibility of the host school to provide disinfectant and disinfecting wipes for each 
team. 
 Only essential personnel are permitted on the field (i.e. - athletes, coaches, medical 
personnel/athletic trainer and umpires).  
 All others (managers, photographers, media, spectators, etc.) are considered non-essential 
personnel and are not to be on the field. 
 Team benches must be redefined and expanded to areas on the sidelines that allow for 
additional space so players and coaches can adhere to the 6 ft. spacing guidelines. 
Game Modifications: 
 Masks: Athletes are required to wear cloth face coverings/masks per EEA guidelines. 
 The host school is required to setup designated areas for students from each team to take mask 
breaks when coming off the field. 
Roster and Participation Limits 
 Game Day Roster Limit – a maximum of 20 players per team will be allowed to be in uniform. 
 No more than 4 coaches will be allowed on the bench at any time. 
 The use of swing players (i.e. Freshman/JV or JV/Varsity) is strongly discouraged and should only 
be utilized in situations to sustain a program. 
Player Interaction: 
 Players must refrain from huddling on field as a team prior to, during or following the contest. 
 Players must refrain from huddling on the mound during a pitcher’s conference. Conferences 
should be limited to a coach, a catcher and a pitcher only. If fielders are needed, they must 
maintain 6’ distancing. 
 Players must refrain from any hand touching (high fives, handshakes) before, during or after the 
contest. 
 The postgame handshake is suspended. See MIAA Board of Directors recommendation. 
 No seeds, gum or spitting is permitted. 
 Players must refrain from licking fingers or spitting on hands. 
⮚ Softball  
Game Modifications and Management: 
 Limitations on total players - 20 players per team total. Field design respective of social 
distancing may dictate total players that may participate in a contest. 
 No seeds, gum or spitting is allowed during the 2020-2021 Spring Season 
 No licking of fingers or spitting on hands 
 The umpire will issue a warning (1st offense) to a player if they intentionally remove their mask 
o 2nd offense the coach will be warned about the player removing their mask 
o 3rd offense the player will be removed from the game. 
 Captains and coaches must maintain social distancing of 6 ft. when talking or conferring with a 
game umpire. 
===PAGE 3===
 Game umpires will maintain social distancing of 6 ft. during the pre-game meeting with 1 
captain from each team and head coaches. 
 Social distancing must be maintained at all times; this includes but is not limited to: 
o While in the dugout 
o During timeouts/coach talking to pitcher and other players on the field 
 Home team MUST supply both teams with 3 game balls, which the pitchers will keep during the 
entire game. 
 Home team must have more balls available in case of loss balls/damaged balls 
 Players must bring and use their own equipment (gloves, bats, helmets, etc.) If a player is unable 
to bring their own equipment and must share with another teammate, the equipment must be 
sprayed with a sanitizer before and after each use. 
 Suspend pregame protocol of shaking hands during introductions/pregame meeting. 
 Suspend postgame protocol of shaking hands  
 Concessions are not allowed for softball games 
 Media location is to be determined by the host school; all media members must wear a mask at 
all times, and follow all social distancing guidelines for spectators. Advance notification to host 
school administration is required. 
⮚ Track and Field  
Pre-Meet Protocol: 
Personnel 
 Only essential personnel are permitted on the practice area and competition area each day (i.e. 
- athletes, coaches, medical personnel/athletic trainer, officials, and timers). 
 All others (managers, photographers, media, spectators, etc.) are considered non-essential 
personnel and are not to be in the starting line, finish line or field areas. 
 Schedule of Events 
 A schedule of events must be created for each meet, providing accurate times for each event. 
 Participants must consider arriving in waves when applicable based upon meet size and 
scheduled event time. 
 Only virtual and/or dual meets are permitted. If Level 4 competition is permitted by EEA, 
participation must follow all EEA guidelines. 
 Designated Team Areas/Warm Up Areas 
 Designated team and warm up areas must be provided for each team to ensure social distancing 
before the meet. 
 During warmups, all participants must move in one/same direction on the track with proper 
spacing. 
 Different time slots must be provided to each team for warmups. 
 Designated warm up times must be considered for field events with officials present. 
Masks 
 Mandatory facial coverings all participants, coaches, school personnel and officials. 
===PAGE 4===
 The meet administrator is required to setup designated areas for athletes to take mask breaks 
when needed. 
 If an athlete is in violation of the mandatory mask rule, the officials have the authority to 
remove the player from competition. 
Watches 
 Athletes and coaches must bring their own watch if use is desired and sharing is not permitted. 
Meet Modifications & Protocols: 
 All athletes must sanitize before their competition event. 
 Coaches should carefully consider the number entries in events to avoid causing large numbers 
of athletes gathering in specific locations at the start of an event/meet. This consideration 
should be utilized for the beginning and conclusion of events. A clerking area that is organized 
and socially distanced should be developed whenever possible. 
Team Areas/Player Interaction 
 The host facility, host school or meet administrator is responsible for providing socially 
distanced team areas. 
 The host facility, host school or meet administrator is required to setup designated areas for 
students from each team to take socially distanced mask breaks when needed. 
 Players must refrain from huddling on track as a team prior to, during or following competition. 
 Players must refrain from any hand touching (high fives, handshakes) during competition. 
 All players must bring their own water bottles which must not be shared.  
Running Event Start Lines 
 Sprints/Hurdles – Run in lanes all the way using adjacent lanes. 
 Starting blocks must be properly sanitized before and after each heat/section. 
 When handling equipment (e.g., hurdles), operators must properly sanitize. 
 200m/400m/400m hurdles/4x100m relay/4x400m relay – One athlete per lane per heat at the 
start. 
 800m/Mile/2-Mile – One athlete per lane per heat at the start; or barrel starts with the 
following recommendation: 
 6 lane track = 6 athletes per barrel (12 total athletes) 
 8 lane track = 8 athletes per barrel (16 total athletes) 
 Facilities without markings for Mile and 2-Mile could consider running 1600m and 3200m races. 
Relays 
 Each team must bring its own baton. Batons must be disinfected before each race. 
 Athletes must sanitize hands before event begins.  
 Para Athletes are encouraged to compete in desired events. 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 Field Events 
 High Jump/Pole Vault 
o When handling equipment, operators must sanitize hands before and after events. 
o Mat and bar should be wiped down after each jump when necessary. 
o Shared implements must be cleaned/disinfected between participants’ use. 
 Shot Put/Javelin/Discus 
o Athletes must sanitize hands before event begins. 
o Shared implements must be cleaned/disinfected between participants’ use. 
 Long Jump/Triple Jump 
o When handling equipment (e.g., rakes), operators must properly sanitize. 
 Para Athletes are encouraged to compete in desired events. 
Finish Line 
 Finish lines must be open with proper spacing for all participants. 
 Participants must be directed to a designated area upon conclusion of the 
 
⮚ Boys Lacrosse 
NFHS Lacrosse Rules Modifications: 
1. The Field (1-2-7): The Scorer’s Table 
a. The substitution box/scorer’s table areas shall be set up with 3 separate tables/seats 
maintaining 6 foot physical distancing. These spaces will be designated for one 
timekeeper and one scorebook designee per team 
2. The Field (1-2-8): Players’ and Coaches’ box 
a. The sideline - players’ and coaches’ box - shall be extended to the end line to ensure 
proper social distancing. 
3. Player Equipment (1-9-2): Optional Equipment, Face Shields and Masks Clear, molded, and non-
rigid face shields approved by the helmet manufacturer are allowed. Masks will be required. 
a. Players, Coaches, and Other Game Personnel: 
b. Coaches and officials should maintain physical distance whenever possible during a 
game including stick checks, official’s meetings, etc. All adult members will work 
together to ensure consistency of distancing protocols. 
4. Time of the Game (3-1-1): Time Reduction 
a. Game will remain with four 12-minute quarters with halftime reduced to 5 minutes with 
teams remaining on the field. Time between quarters will be a maximum of 2 minutes. 
Additional considerations for modifications of time should refer to heat policy as 
needed. 
5. Facing Off (4-3-1, 2, and 3): Starting Play with Facing Off 
a. For the spring 2021 MIAA Lacrosse season, the NCAA rules for the Faceoff will be 
adopted. Officials will continue to utilize current procedural practices for expediting safe 
face-offs.  
6. Penalty Enforcement (7-1-1): Procedure 
===PAGE 6===
a. In instances of violation, officials should use the electronic whistle quickly and award the 
ball. This “quick” whistle will apply in loose ball technical foul situations and play on 
situations where possession is not clearly imminent. 
7. Roster Size: 
 Game Day Rosters will be limited to 45 players, including injured athletes and student-
managers. 
 Each team may have no more than 6 adults in the bench area throughout the contest 
(coaches, volunteers, statisticians, videographers - are all included) 
Additional Considerations/Points of Emphasis: 
 Pregame 
 All participants, officials, coaches, and administrative personnel must where face coverings at all 
times. 
 No equipment inspections prior to the game – Note: Goalkeeper’s chest protectors must meet 
new NOCSAE guidelines. 
 One (1) Coach per team will meet with officials for pregame certification. 
 No pregame line up. Coaches will relay information from officials meeting to their teams. 
 No meeting with faceoff players. 
 Meeting with Captains: One (1) captain per team, will meet with the official for the coin toss, 
maintaining social distancing of 6 ft. The official will show coin result to each captain. 
 Team bench areas should be clearly marked to remind players of proper social distancing of 6 ft. 
In Game-Play: 
Mask wearing 
 Emphasis on mask wearing during game play - mask is considered a uniform/piece of equipment 
  Coaches/Players/Teams will manage/assist with enforcement 
 Officials primarily in dead ball situations will enforce face coverings by sending the player off the 
field for sub. Repeated instances for an individual player will require additional conversation 
/enforcement with coaches. 
Postgame: 
 No handshakes. 
 Teams will stay in their team areas, no running onto the field. Players will exit field to their team 
bench/sideline. 
 End of game: in place of handshake line, teams can lineup extending from their respective side 
of the substitution box facing the opposing team’s line and raise sticks in a salute of 
sportsmanship.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
⮚ Girls Lacrosse 
In-Game Modifications: 
The game of Girls Lacrosse will follow all NFHS Rules with the following modifications: 
 Masks: Mandatory facial coverings per EEA regulations. 
 If a player is in violation of the mandatory mask rule, the referee will give the player a warning 
and the player is sent off the field. Continued infractions will follow the delay of game procedure 
(Rule 9-1-1c). 
 Process Between Quarters 
o All games will be played in four equal quarters of 12.5 minutes with a 2-minute break 
between quarters 1 & 2 and 3 & 4. Halftime will be a maximum of 5 minutes determined 
during the pre-game meeting. 
 Timeouts 
o Teams are responsible to run their timeout meetings following socially distanced 
protocols. 
o Players should sanitize during time outs. 
Player Interaction 
 Players should refrain from picking up another player by hand if a player has fallen to the 
ground. (Unless deemed necessary to help a player off the field due to injury). 
 Players will refrain from huddling on field as a team 
 Players will refrain from any hand touching (high fives, handshakes) during substitutions. 
The Draw 
 The official will make every attempt to expedite the draw. 
 Point of Emphasis: If a player moves after the draw has been set, a free position will be awarded 
to the opposing team at the center line. 
 The defending team should use their stick to carry the ball to the center after a goal is scored. 
8-Meter Positioning 
 Only one player per hash on 8-meter setup, the existing rule that allows the defense to adjacent 
hashes remains in force. 
 Point of Emphasis: Players should not cluster during 8-meter free positions. 
Roster and Participation Limits 
 The use of swing players (i.e. Freshman/JV or JV/Varsity) is strongly discouraged and should only 
be utilized in situations to sustain a program. 
 Game Day Rosters will be limited to 45 players, including injured athletes and student-
managers. 
 Each team may have no more than 6 adults in the bench area throughout the contest (coaches, 
volunteers, statisticians, videographers - are all included) 
 
===PAGE 8===
Substitution Process and Sideline Protocol 
 All substitutes checking into the game must use hand sanitizer (if not wearing gloves) provided 
at the score table and check into the game “near” midfield but socially distant from others 
including game administrators. 
 Home team is responsible for creating a sub and penalty area on the field that allows social 
distancing. 
 Teams will substitute from their half of the field within the substitution area. 
Modifications/Points of Emphasis 
 Goalkeepers may not spit on their gloves. They can wet them with a water bottle. If the 
coach/official sees this happen, gloves will be taken out of play. 
 Players and officials may wear gloves and long undergarments. 
 Additional Modifications and Points of Emphasis for the Spring 2021 Season: 
Pre-Game Meeting 
 Limited to officials, single coach and single captain from each team. 
 Ensure the pre-game meeting is away from the sideline and both teams. 
 Individuals need to maintain a social distance of 6 ft. during the meeting. 
 Mask use by all participants is required. 
 Coaches will be responsible for verifying that all team members are properly equipped. 
 No handshakes prior to and following the Pre-Game Meeting or at the conclusion of the game. 
 The pre-game stick check procedure will be changed to random selection and closer inspection 
of eight sticks. Following the pre-game stick check, selected sticks must be sanitized prior to 
player usage. 
Post-Game Handshake 
 The postgame handshake is suspended. See MIAA Board of Directors recommendation. 
 Recognition of the other team, coaches and/or officials should be done from a distance greater 
than 6 ft. and should not delay departure from the competition venue. 
 Teams and groups of players should maintain social distancing (6 ft. between individuals) and/or 
staggering departure times at the conclusion of the contest. 
Game Management: 
Team Benches 
 Consider seating fans opposite of team benches and separated from one another to promote 
social distancing. 
 If spectator seating is available behind team benches, it must be separated by at least 20 ft. 
 Each bench area must be set up at least 10 yards from midfield. Team benches (or chairs) must 
be set up to ensure social distancing between players, coaches, trainers, etc. on the sidelines. 
Teams may end up having players stretched out far down the sideline. 
 All non-uniformed team members who are not essential to game management shall be seated in 
the bleachers or general seating and socially distanced from other groups. 
===PAGE 9===
Game Officials 
 Must wear a mask at all times per EEA Modifications. 
 Electronic whistles/artificial noisemakers are required. 
 Address broken/damaged masks when the play advantage has subsided (similar to how injuries 
are handled). 
 Must arrive at the facility dressed in uniform per EEA Modifications. 
 Must bring their own water bottles. 
 If a player steps in the direction of the referee with intent to complain/argue, that player will be 
given a yellow card. If the player comes within 6 ft. of an official to complain/argue, a red card 
will be issued. 
 Referees are instructed to exit the field and facility immediately upon the final whistle. They are 
not expected to sign the game sheet this year. It is the responsibility of the game 
administrator/coaches to make sure the information on the game sheet is correct. 
Scorer’s Table 
 Personnel must be socially distanced and are required to wear masks. (Announcer, timer, shot 
clock, scorer, etc.) 
 Home team/host school provides hand sanitizer for each team at the scorer’s table and 
disposable PPE. 
 Limit seats at the table to essential personnel which includes home team scorer and timer with a 
recommended distance of 6 ft. or greater between individuals. Statisticians or visiting scorer 
personnel are not essential. 
Additional Considerations 
 Adequate time should be provided between games to allow for social distancing of teams and 
spectators during entry/exit in multi-team and multigame settings. 
 To the extent possible, it is recommended that schools play only one opponent per week 
(home/away). 
Unified Track & Field Specific Modifications 
Pre-Meet Protocol: 
Personnel 
 Only essential personnel are permitted on the practice area and competition area each day (i.e. 
- athletes, coaches, medical personnel/athletic trainer, officials, and timers). 
 All others (managers, photographers, media, spectators, etc.) are considered non-essential 
personnel and are not to be in the starting line, finish line or field areas. 
Schedule of Events 
 A schedule of events must be created for each meet, providing accurate times for each event. 
 Virtual and/or dual meets are recommended. If Level 4 competition is permitted by EEA, 
participation must follow all EEA guidelines. 
===PAGE 10===
Designated Team Areas/Warm Up Areas 
 Designated team and warm up areas must be provided for each team to ensure social distancing 
before the meet. 
 During warmups, all participants must move in one/same direction on the track with proper 
spacing. 
 Different time slots must be provided to each team for warmups. 
 Designated warm up times must be considered for field events with officials present.  
Masks 
 Mandatory facial coverings all participants, coaches, school personnel and officials. 
 The meet administrator is required to setup designated areas for athletes to take mask breaks 
when needed. 
 If an athlete is in violation of the mandatory mask rule, the officials have the authority to 
remove the player from competition. 
Watches 
 Athletes and coaches must bring their own watch if use is desired, and sharing is not permitted. 
 Meet Modifications & Protocols: 
 All athletes must sanitize before their competition event. 
 A clerking area that is organized and socially distanced should be developed whenever possible. 
Team Areas/Player Interaction 
 The host facility, host school or meet administrator is responsible for providing socially 
distanced team areas. 
 The host facility, host school or meet administrator is required to setup designated areas for 
students from each team to take socially distanced mask breaks when needed. 
 Players must refrain from huddling on track as a team prior to, during or following competition. 
 Players must refrain from any hand touching (high fives, handshakes) during competition. 
 All players must bring their own water bottles which must not be shared. 
Running Event Start Lines 
 100m/400m – Run in lanes all the way using adjacent lanes. 
 4x100m relay – One athlete per lane per heat at the start. 
 800m/4x400m relay – One athlete per lane per heat at the start; using staggered starts with 1- 
lap stagger. 
Relays 
 Each team must bring its own baton. Batons must be disinfected before and after each race. 
 Athletes must sanitize hands before and after each event. 
 
 
===PAGE 11===
Field Events 
 Shot Put/Javelin/Long Jump 
o Athletes must sanitize hands before and after each event. 
o Shared implements must be cleaned/disinfected between participants’ use. 
o When handling equipment (e.g., rakes), operators must properly sanitize. 
o It is recommended that teams participate in field events separately as a school cohort. 
Finish Line 
 Finish lines must be open with proper spacing for all participants. 
 Participants must be directed to a designated area upon conclusion of the event. 
Additional information  
 Registration would open for Spring Sports sports on 4/8 and close on 4/25 for High School sports 
and registration for Middle School Track will begin on 4/14 and end 4/30 
 The Midland Wachusett league will be developing spectator guidelines/protocols 
 A dedicated Covid crate will be provided to each team, with sanitizing and PPE products.  
 Sanitizing stations will be located both outside and inside and students will use one entrance 
and one exit 
 The use of the gym will follow the protocols that were used during the winter season 
 Indoor use of the school on weekends will not be allowed 
 