===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
BUDGET 3100 
 
BUDGET ADOPTION PROCEDURES 3103 
 
The General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts also establish the following procedures 
pertaining to the School Committee Budget: 
 
A. Public Hearing by School Committee - As per Chapter 71, Section 38N of the General Laws.  
“The School Committee of each city, town or regional school district shall hold a public 
hearing on its proposed annual budget not less than seven days after publication of a notic e 
thereof in a newspaper having general circulation in such city, town or district.  Prior to such 
public hearing said committee shall make available to the public at least one copy of said 
proposed budget for a time period of not less than forty-eight hours either at the office of the 
Superintendent of Schools or at a place so designated by said committee.  At the time and place 
so advertised or at any time or place to which such hearing may from time to time be adjourned 
all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard for or against the whole or any 
part of the proposed budget.  Such hearing shall be conducted by a quorum of the School 
Committee.  For the purposes of this section a quorum shall consist of a majority of the 
members of said School Committee.” 
 
B. Adoption - The action of the School Committee in adopting the budget following the public 
hearing shall be summarized and the vote of each member on any amendments offered to the 
proposed budget shall be recorded. 
 
C. Fiscal Budget - The a nnual school department budget becomes official when it has been 
affirmed as part of the town budget by the Lunenburg Finance Committee and has been passed 
at the Town Meeting. 
 
The fiscal year shall begin on the first day of July and shall end on the thirtieth day of June, unless 
another provision is made by general law. 
 
MASC: The district budget is adopted by the School Committee at the cost center level. Cost 
centers should represent 
appropriate levels of transparency for the Committee to oversee goal implementation while 
allowing for 
administrative day-to-day work. Cost centers will be agreed upon by the Committee and 
administration. 
The District Budget shall be adopted by the School Committee at the cost center level.  Cost 
centers are established by DESE, while line items are established by the Town.  Using cost 
centers aid in organizing the budget, reporting to the State, and increasing transparency for tax 
payers. 
The District Budget shall be adopted by the School Committee at the cost center level.  Cost 
centers are established by DESE, while line items are established by the Town.  Using cost 
centers aid in organizing the budget, reporting to the State, and increasing transparency for tax 
===PAGE 2===
payers. Cost centers will be agreed upon by the Committee and administration. The budget is 
adopted by a simple majority. 
Authority for adoption of the final school budget bottom line lies with the citizens who comprise, 
and who are entitled to vote at the town meeting. The school budget is presented as part of the 
total town budget for action at the annual town meeting. 
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 71:34; 71:37 
 
Town Charter, (See local reference) 
CROSS REF.: DBJ, Budget Transfer Authority 
 
 