===PAGE 1===
Keystone Educational Collaborative Quarterly Update   June 26, 2024CensusProgram Current Census Projected Census
Key Program 79 80
KEC Elementary 46 48
Keystone Academy 33 41
Total 158 169
All data as of June 6, 2024

===PAGE 2===
KEY Program: Program continues to have the  majority of student referral increases as the school year begins  to wind down. Program has  meet their overall average goal on projected students for the year.

===PAGE 3===
KEA Program: Students and staff were supported during the transition process with the  passing of Julie Bragg. Assistant  Program Admin has been carried out by Kerry McCann and a formal interview process will begin to identify a replacement for the position. Current  students that are at the Leominster site will transition to being part of the Academy  programming, which will free up a teacher so more referrals at the  elementary/middle school age can be brought into programming. The program has not met their average projected census, but some of the factors have been attributed to the anticipated move of the program and the loss of staff.

===PAGE 4===
Key Academy: The program began the transition of eleven (11) students located at the Leominster site  to  the Academy program after the April vacation. This shift will assist in stabilizing  the census projections for fall 2024 as referrals continue to be students predominantly in early  middle school and elementary programs. The program will be doing minor renovations to the  location over the summer to divide the HS program from the upper middle school program. The  program did not meet its overall average census for the year, but the current moves will place the  Academy in better standings for next year’s projections. Graduation was May 31st for high school  students.
Status Update Keystone

===PAGE 5===
Referrals: Over 169 referrals since the beginning of the school year and over 19 referrals within the months of April  and May.  The Intake Coordinator is working diligently to get packets reviewed and responses made as quickly as possible with districts and families. Ensuring that districts are aware that we cannot hold spots until Fall. 
Joslin Property With a year behind us after the purchase of the building the project is moving forward.  The property had external site visits from sub bidders/contractors on May 28
th 
with all bids due on June  5
th
. The next stage will have a 2 week posting for the GC who will pick from the sub bidder list. Hoping to get a projected idea on breaking ground and completion date by the end  of June to report to the Board.  
Mid Cycle Review  Keystone will have its Mid Cycle Review on May 19, 2025. 
Interface Contract Renewal  Winchendon, Ayer/Shirley, Fitchburg, Leominster: Expires 6/30/24. Ayer/Shirley, Fitchburg, Leominster:  has been negotiated and will be 2K cheaper than these years.  Interface does expect to have rate hikes to  occur within the years to come. Winchendon has been pulled from the contract as they ensure the budget  for next year. Will be talking to the members about Care Solace.  
Staffing  •
 
Academy is down one high school teacher that we let go from the program. Currently (2) staff have  filed a MCAD (Disability and Age  Discrimination) complaint which is being addressed by the collaborative attorney. . •
 Kerry McCann has become Acting Program Admin at the KEA program. Interviewing for the  position is ongoing. •
 Collaborative is working on projected retirements for next year that may impact the program. •
 Saying goodbye to Marsha Januskiewicz and Gary MacCallum who will be retiring at the end of   the  school year. •
 Overall staffing for the program is good. •
 
Collaborative has sent out emails to SPED Directors on next year’s contracted services.( PT, BCBA, PTA, TVI services). •
 
We have notified any non-members that we will not be able to contract TVI services to  them as we ramp down and prepare for the retirement of Jean Sauer. She will continue to work  next year on her caseload and begin working with Ashley on getting her acclimated to some of her cases. We are still actively engaging in recruiting another TVI (teacher of visually impaired).  We are also going to need to look for  a COMS (certified orientation & mobility specialist) as Jean carries this certification and not all TVI’s are COMS as well.