===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
EXPENDITURES 3400 
 
PURCHASING PRINCIPLES, EXPENDITURES PROCUREMENT 3410 
AND AUTHORITY 
 
The Superintendent will serve as Chief Procurement Officer per annual vote of the School 
Committee.  He/she will develop and administer the purchasing program for the schools in keeping 
with legal requirements and with the adopted school budget. 
 
No person shall contract a bill on behalf of the School Committee unless it shall have been 
authorized and the order has been given on the prescribed purchase order form signed by the Chief 
Procurement Officer. 
 
The Purchasing Agent is the focal point for all procu rement of supplies, equipment and services.  
Other employees in the system can initiate contact with salespeople.  Only the Purchasing Agent 
can commit a purchase. 
 
The basic obligation of the Purchasing Agent is to acquire services and materials needed by  the 
School District at the lowest possible cost at the proper time. 
 
Dollar Limitations and Public Advertising 
 
Actual experience indicated that advertising for bids on low -value purchases causes unnecessary 
delays and incurs extra costs.  Inflationary tr ends warrant periodic reviews to determine a 
satisfactory dividing line between formal and informal purchases. 
 
1. PURCHASES  (as stated in General Laws 30B Uniform Procurement for Supplies, Services 
and Real Property under Chapter 687, and Section 4B of the General Laws Relating to 
Education) 
 
Purchases of equipment, supplies, materials, service and real property shall follow all state, 
local, and federal laws and regulations regarding bidding, including but not limited to MGL 
30(b). 
 
All purchases of and all contracts for construction or maintenance will conform to the 
requirements of law. 
 
To foster greater efficiency, the Superintendent will enter into state and local intergovernmental 
agreements where appropriate for procurement or use of common or shared services and utilize 
available state contracts. 
 
Unless otherwise provided by by -law, state contract or special law in towns and districts, no 
contract for the purchase of equipment, supplies, materials, service and real property, the actual 
or estimated cost of which amounts to $25,000  $100,000.00 or more shall be awarded unless 
bids or proposals for the same have been invited by advertisement in at least one newspaper, 
===PAGE 2===
if any, published in the town or district, otherwise in at leas t one newspaper of general 
circulation in the district, such publication to be at least one week before the time specified for 
the release of said request for proposals.  Such advertisement shall state the time and place for 
opening the proposals in answer to said advertisement, and shall reserve to the city or district 
the right to reject any or all such proposals.  All such proposals shall be opened in public.  No 
bill or contract shall be split or divided for the purpose of evading any provisions of this section.   
 
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
EXPENDITURES 3400 
 
PURCHASING PRINCIPLES, EXPENDITURES PROCUREMENT 3410 
AND AUTHORITY 
 
It shall be the policy of the Lunenburg Public Schools to use sound business practices  to solicit 
verbal quotations over the telephone from at least three vendors for all purchases of equipment, 
supplies or materials of $1.00 to $4,999.00 $10,000.00 or written quotation for purchases of 
$5,000 $10,001.00 to $24,999 $100,000.00 except in cases of emergency involving health or 
safety.  Additionally, whenever feasible or when cost savings are likely to result, written and/or 
verbal quotations should be solicited from vendors.    
 
 
NOTE:  The Chief Procurement Officer is the Purchasing Agent.  M.G.L. C.44, S.103. 
 
MASC:  
All purchases of materials and equipment and all contracts for construction or maintenance will conform to 
the requirements of law.  
 
To foster greater efficiency, the District will enter into state and local intergovernmental agreements where 
appropriate for procurement or use of common or shared services.  
 
For any supply or service over $50,000, bids will be advertised appropriately. S uppliers will be invited to 
have their names placed on distribution lists to receive invitations to bid. When specifications are prepared, 
they will be distributed to all merchants and firms who have indicated an interest in bidding.  All bids will 
be submitted in sealed envelopes, addressed to the Superintendent and plainly marked with the name of the 
bid and the time of the bid opening. Bids will be opened in public at the time specified, and all bidders will 
be invited to be present.  
 
The Committee reser ves for the District the right to reject any or all bids and to accept the bid that appears 
to be in the best interest of the school district. The Committee reserves for the District the right to waive any 
informality in, or reject, any or all bids or any part of any bid. Any bid maybe withdrawn prior to the 
scheduled time for the opening of the bids.  
 
Any bid received after the time and date specified will not be considered. All bids will remain firm for a 
period of 30 days after opening. The bidder to wh om an award is made may be required to enter into a written 
contract with the school district.  
 
A procurement for a supply or service in the amount of $10,000 or greater by not more than $50,000 shall be 
awarded to the responsible party offering the neede d quantity or supply among three written quotati ons 
sought and retained by the procurement officer.  
 
===PAGE 3===
A procurement in the amount of $10,000 or less shall be obtained through the exercise of sound business 
practices. 
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 7:22A; 7:22B; 30:39M: 30B 
CROSS REF.: DJA, Purchasing Authority 
NOTE: The cross reference is to a closely related policy in this manual. 
NOTE: Town or city charters may contain related provisions. If so, appropriate citations should 
be added 
to the legal references. 
 
 
Updated 9-23-09 
 