===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Special Services Program Evaluation 2019-2020Parent/Staff Communication/Web Page Reconstruction
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the closure of schoolsled to significant sources of frustrationand confusion. Clear communication was necessary todispel anxieties and misinformation. Anobstacle to clear communication was how rapidly informationchanged. To address thefrequently changing and updating information and toensure that information reached those inneed as rapidly as possible, the Special Servicesdepartment maintained on-goingcommunication with staff and families.
To maintain communication with staff throughout theschool closure, the Special ServicesDirector held weekly meetings to provide updated informationto staff and allow for anyquestions to be addressed. These meetings were heldthrough virtual format while staffmembers worked remotely. The information discussedthrough those meetings was also postedon the Special Services website on a link availableonly to Lunenburg employees. On this page,a document was also maintained that provided information,which was updated in real-time with“new” information highlighted to be delineated fromolder information. This document was aresource for all staff throughout the school closure.Upon returning to school, the Director ofSpecial Services provided weekly “drop-in” meetingsfor the first few weeks of school beforemoving to a less frequent and regular meeting scheduleat staff request. At all times, theDirector of Special Services has provided staff withher private phone number in addition to theirability to access her through email.
Communication to parents was on-going. The Directorof Special Services sent frequent emailswith updates that pertained to all families of studentswho received special education services atthe time. A document was also maintained on the Special Services website with on-goingupdates that all families could access.

===PAGE 2===
The Director of Special Services did her best to stayahead of guidance provided by the state toease transitions and tensions throughout the pandemic.As a parent remarked recently,"Thelevel of communication through the pandemic has beenwonderful.”
Recommendations:As this format now appears to be readily acceptedand easy to access for all parties, therecommendation is to keep these pages and update themas needed to continue to facilitateopen communication.
