===PAGE 1===
LHS Student  Handbook
1079 Massachusetts AvenueLunenburg, MA 01462978-582-4115  FAX 978-582-4153
                                                    Lunenburg Public Schools                                                           
Mission:  We provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for lifelong learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.
Vision: The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to its values of attending to the personal wellbeing of its students, providing quality instruction at all levels, and promoting lifelong learning for all.
Core Values● Quality education cultivates creative problem solving, independent thinking, and multiple points of view.  ● Effective education addresses the whole child, involves authentic engagement, and provides multiple pathways to success.  ● Students must be provided with an academically and personally safe environment that promotes effective learning.

===PAGE 2===
● Students should be provided with opportunities to develop initiative and responsibility which will help them become active and supportive community members.● Focused, sustained professional development and reflective practice are fundamental to excellence in teaching. ● Strong collaboration and open communication among school staff, students, families, and the community develop mutual respect and trust, and enhance students’ ability to succeed.● Resourcing decisions should be responsible, address critical needs, and put students first.
Beliefs about Learning● Take responsibility for academic growth through reflection, risk- taking, and accountability● Spark a passion for learning and creativity by providing a stimulating environment that is challenging and empowers students to follow individual pathways through varied learning opportunities● Foster an environment of mutual respect and personal integrity as demonstrated through words and actions● Students are held to clear, rigorous, and reachable expectations by providing opportunities to demonstrate learning at high levels● We draw from life experiences to make connections within, and beyond, the classroom
                                                                        
❖Code of ConductIn order for students to fulfill their academic potential, a safe, positive, and orderly environment is essential. The best decisions for managing student behavior are based on a value system that maintains the dignity of each student in all situations. Behaving responsibly is more valued than behaving obediently. Good teaching is holistic and discipline is an integral part of the entire teaching experience. Every decision affecting behavior management affects instruction.
The purpose of a code of conduct is to protect the safety, health, property, and personal rights of every member of the school community. Parents, school personnel, and students share the responsibility of maintaining a positive learning environment. This discipline code applies to all areas of school, not only to the classroom, and includes all school-sponsored activities including those occurring off school grounds. Please see Section 5400 of the Lunenburg 
===PAGE 3===
Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct) for more information.  5400  Student Conduct  Approved 5-3-17.pdfAll students are expected to abide by the code of conduct described in this handbook.  Should a student with a disability require modification of this code because the behavioral concern was determined to be a manifestation of the disability, the modification(s) will be clearly described in the student’s Individual Educational Plan.  See the Special Education Services section of this handbook for more information.
The following guiding principles should govern student conduct and behavior:
● Maintain a positive and constructive learning environment.● Respect each member of the school community.● Be considerate of the rights of each member of the school community. ● Respect school property and the personal property of others.
● Illegal Articles:  Possession of a firearm on school grounds is a crime in Massachusetts (Chapter 150 of Acts of 1987 to M.G.L. Ch. 269 § 10). Additionally, knives, sharp instruments, any weapon, tobacco products, matches, lighters, pipes, alcohol, and drugs not prescribed by a physician are all illegal to have on school property. In compliance with state law (MGL Chap. 71, Section 37H) expressly prohibits the use of tobacco products, including all forms of electronic cigarettes or E-cigarettes, within school buildings, school facilities, on school buses or on school grounds by any individual, student or adult, at all times.Please see Sections 5403-5405 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct: Smoking/Use of Smokeless Tobacco; Alcohol Use by Students; Drug Abuse Policy) for more information.  5403  Alcohol, Tobacco and Drug Use by Students Prohibited Updated & Approved 12-16-20.pdf
● Articles Not Allowed in School: Certain articles have been deemed unnecessary, dangerous, and/or distracting to the educational environment and therefore are not allowed on school property. These include, but are not limited to, games, water pistols,”look alike” toy weapons, open containers of soft drinks, pets/animals not deemed as service animals, aerosols, incendiary devices, glue, and white-out. iPods and other similar electronic devices.  Other items not allowed in school are large blankets, costumes or costume-like items, pacifiers,.....
❖Violations - The rules herein apply to all students regardless of special education needs unless alternative approaches or consequences are specified in a student's Individual Education Plan.  Violations of the following school rules could result in assignment of disciplinary consequences including, but not 
===PAGE 4===
limited to, community service, social probation, loss of privileges, loss of parking permit, restorative justice assignment/project, and detentions or suspension from school.  Repeated violations will result in increasingly severe disciplinary consequences.
The following are major categories of violations of Lunenburg High School behavioral expectations:  
1.  Failure to comply with reasonable requests and/or rightful instructions of a teacher or staff member
2.  Unauthorized absence from class, study hall, lunchroom, or Advisory
3.  Chronic tardiness
4.  Leaving the school grounds without proper dismissal 
5.  Unauthorized use of passes or leaving class without a pass
6.  Gambling, card-playing, or other games that do not directly pertain to the classroom
7.  Vulgar, obscene, profane or violent communications, references to illegal activities
8.  Creation, possession, or distribution of lewd/obscene/pornographic materials or any photograph, video, meme, etc. that is offensive, harassing, bullying, intended to harm, belittle or make fun of another individual.  
9.  Theft
10. Possession of stolen property
11. Students will be permitted to use cell phones in the hallways between classes and in the cafeteria during lunch. Cell phones are not permitted to be used in the classroom.  Cell phones should not be used in the hallways during class time. If cell phones are observed during restricted times, the teacher will confiscate the phone and log in to the office during their next free period. A parent may be required to pick up the confiscated cell phone by 3:30 p.m. or by appointment. To set up an appointment with an administrator, call 978-582-4115.
12. The use of personal stereos/iPods cell phones and headphones are at teacher’s discretion. See individual classroom rules.
13. Leaving the school building without a pass from the main office.
14. Activities that create a disturbance or threat of injury to others (pushing, shoving, running in the halls, throwing objects, internet posts, etc.)
===PAGE 5===
15. Unsportsmanlike conduct by participants or spectators at school competitions or any school sponsored event
16. Inappropriate public displays of affection
17. Food and drink (excluding water) may not be consumed during class time. Food items and drinks are prohibited in the library, gymnasium, auditorium, science labs and computer labs.
18. Disrespect, dishonesty, vulgarity, insolence, or insubordination toward or in response to teachers, school staff or other students
19. Threatening behavior toward another student. Every student involved in a fight is subject to suspension.
20. Violation of harassment policy
21. Fraud, falsification, forgery, or giving a false name
22. Violation of the cheating and plagiarism policy
23. Opening or accessing the locker of another student without permission or opening or accessing a teacher’s desk or closet
24. Unauthorized entry into unsupervised areas
25. Vandalism or destruction property (school, staff, or student)
26. Violation of parking policy
27. Violation of alcohol, tobacco, and/or drug policy
28. Violation of the dress code
29. Violation of the computer Acceptable Use Policy
30. Possession of a laser pointer or use of a laser pointer
31.  Possession of games, water pistols, “look alike” toy weapons
32. Violation of the conduct outside of school policy
33. Videotaping or taking photos of students or teachers without permission
34. Two or more people in a single stall restroom or sharing a stall in the large restroom or locker room  
Chronic violations will require parental conference with administration.
❖Suspension is MANDATORY for the following:
===PAGE 6===
1.   Violation of alcohol and drug policy or smoking/vaping on school property or at school activities
2.   Possession of drugs and/or drug paraphernalia
3.   Failure to report to a teacher or administrator knowledge of a violation of rules that endangers the safety of another student or threatens the safety and security of the school.
4.   Assault and fighting: All students involved in a fight are subject to suspension. Students who assault another student/staff will have additional suspensions and may be subject to an exclusion hearing.
5.   Possession of dangerous or destructive materials or weapons; police will be notified immediately of such offenses.
6.   Verbal threats or posturing a threat toward any staff member, student body or school building.
7.   Hazing (as defined by Mass. General Law Chap. 269 Sec. 17-19) means any conduct or method of initiation into any student organization, whether on public or private property which willfully or recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person. Violations of this law may also be subject to criminal prosecution.
8.   Failure to submit to an administrative search; this also includes failure to submit to an alcohol test if requested by an administrator.
In addition to suspension as required by paragraphs above, Massachusetts General Law may require expulsion under the following circumstances:
1. Any student who is found on school premises or at school-sponsored or school-related events, including athletic games, who is in possession of a dangerous weapon (including but not limited to a gun or a knife) or a controlled substance as defined in chapter 94c, including but not limited to marijuana, cocaine and heroin, may be subject to expulsion from the school or school district by the principal.
2.  Any student who assaults a principal, assistant principal, teacher, teacher's aide, or other educational staff on school premises or at school-sponsored or school-related events, including athletic games, may be subject to expulsion from the school or school district by the principal.
Any student who is charged with either of the above two violations shall be notified in writing of an opportunity for a hearing; provided, however, that the student may have representation, along with the opportunity to present evidence and witnesses at said hearing before the principal.
===PAGE 7===
❖Due Process - In Goss v. Lopez, the United States Supreme Court held that before a student receives a disciplinary penalty, they have the constitutional right to receive:
1.  Oral or written notice of the charges against them
2.  An explanation of the evidence against them
3.  The opportunity to present their side of the story
*In the case of a violation requiring suspension from school, notice of the  suspension and the hearing must occur before the student may be asked to leave school, except when students present an immediate threat to school officials, other students, or themselves or when they clearly endanger the school environment.  In this case, the hearing may be delayed, but must be held within a reasonable period of time.  Copies of reports of any disciplinary action(s) taken are maintained until student graduation.
❖Conduct Outside of School - Students are reminded that they are responsible for and shall be held accountable for conduct outside of school that impacts Lunenburg Middle-High School in the following ways:
1.  The conduct presents a direct and immediate threat to the well-being and order of the school
2.  The conduct places Lunenburg High School students and/or staff at risk of being injured, is unsafe, dangerous, or irresponsible
3.  The conduct causes conflict and disputes among students and/or staff that negatively impact the educational climate of the school (i.e. social media posts or text messages)
Students in violation of this Conduct Outside of School policy shall be subject to disciplinary consequences and are subject sanctions imposed by both school administration and any extracurricular organization in which they have membership. Consequences may include, but are not limited to:  loss of privileges (attendance at dances,  proms,  and  other  school  activities);  detentions;  temporary or permanent exclusion from athletic teams or other school organizations; community service; suspension.
❖Detention - Students are to report to detention on the day that it is assigned.  If the student is absent or dismissed from school, it is their responsibility to report to detention the following day.  If there is a conflict, it is the student’s responsibility to make arrangements with the detention monitor. ❖Saturday Detention - Students may be assigned to Saturday Detention for repeated violations of school rules, missed office detention, or offenses that are 
===PAGE 8===
non-violent in nature.  Students assigned to Saturday Detention will spend up to four hours of detention at school on a Saturday morning.  Failure to attend Saturday Detention or violate detention rules will result in–school suspension.  The following guidelines are in effect:
1.  Students will report to the Saturday Detention room at 8:00 a.m. with all books and study materials.
2.  Students are responsible for bringing academic assignments or outside reading books to detention.
3.  Any student who fails to abide by detention rules will be assigned to in-school suspension the following school day.
4.  The Saturday Detention supervisor will decide if detention credit is granted at the conclusion of detention, based on behavior and work completion.❖Suspensions and Expulsions: The Lunenburg School Committee maintains a comprehensive policy on suspensions and expulsions. Please see Section 5409 of the Lunenburg Public Schools District Policies (Students and Instruction: Student Conduct: Student Suspension, Exclusion, Expulsion, and Reporting) for more information.https://drive.google.com/file/d/11Dp36DfWPvpZbzDfBbVGxg0KKEoZiMTQ/view
❖In-School Suspension - Students will be assigned to in-school suspension for repeated violations of school rules or offenses that are non-violent in nature. Students assigned to in-school suspension will spend the entire day there. The following guidelines are in effect:
1.  Students will report to the in-school suspension room at 8:00 a.m. with all books and study materials. Locker trips will not be permitted after the start of the school day.
2.  Students are responsible for bringing academic assignments to in-school suspension.
3.  Any student who is unprepared for in-school suspension or fails to abide by in-school suspension rules could be suspended out-of-school for the day of in-school suspension and the following day.
4.  Lunch will be eaten in the in-school suspension room.
5.  Assignments due on the day of in-school suspension must be turned in to the in-school suspension supervisor before 2:30 p.m.
6.  The in-school suspension supervisor will decide if detention credit is granted at 2:30 p.m. based on behavior and work completion.
7.  In-school suspensions will be issued at the discretion of the administration.
===PAGE 9===
❖Out-of-School Suspension Policy - Suspension is a serious disciplinary action imposed by school officials to prohibit a student from attending school and to exclude that student from participating in or attending all school activities and events for the entire period of suspension. Suspended students must remain off school grounds for each day of the suspension. During the period of suspension a student may not participate in any co-curricular or extra-curricular activities or events, engage in any school-related athletic practice or game, or attend any school related event on or off campus.  Students are responsible for contacting their teachers via email to get assignments and are expected to make up all required work.
Suspension days are determined to be days when school is actually in session. Weekends and vacation days, or days when school is not in session, are not counted in the suspension process.
A parent conference is required before students may return to school following suspension.
Students participating in the STEP program are responsible for notifying their sponsors and advisors if they are suspended from school and will not be allowed on their STEP site during suspension.
❖Exclusion - The principal may initiate exclusion proceedings which shall be defined as excluding a student from regular classroom instruction and related school activities for a period exceeding ten (10) but not to exceed ninety (90) school days, when the student has acted in such a manner that the student’s removal is necessary to protect the physical/emotional safety of others, or in order to prevent substantial interference with the right of others to pursue an education. Educational services will be provided to students during the period of exclusion.❖Expulsion - Expulsion is the permanent removal of a student from the school and the school system.  Educational services will be provided to students during the period of expulsion. Except as otherwise provided for in M.G.L. Chapter 71, section 37H or 37H1/2, no student shall be expelled from school except by majority vote of the School Committee upon the recommendation of the superintendent and after a formal hearing pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 71 section 17. Said hearing shall conform to these guidelines:
1.   The student shall have the right to be present during the presentation of evidence. If witnesses against the student testify at the hearing, the student, the student’s attorney [and/or the student’s parent(s) or guardian(s)] shall be allowed to question such witnesses. The student or the student's attorney, has a right to present a defense including presentation of witnesses and/or documentary evidence. No evidence not presented at the hearing will be considered, unless the student consents to such consideration during the course of the hearing.
2.   The hearing shall be private.
===PAGE 10===
3.   A recording shall be made of the proceedings, and a written summary record shall be completed. 
❖School Committee Policies1. Tobacco Policy - Since September 1989, it has been unlawful for students enrolled in Massachusetts public schools to use tobacco products, including all forms of electronic cigarettes or E-cigarettes, of any type on school grounds or at school functions.   It is also illegal in our state to sell tobacco products to minors.   This means that both the use and the possession of tobacco products by pupils in school are not permissible.  It also means that teachers and administrators have the right to confiscate tobacco and related paraphernalia  (e.g. lighters, matches, etc.) from any student who brings it to school. Students who violate this policy will be subject to office detentions and/or suspension for first and subsequent offenses.  Furthermore, Lunenburg Public Schools, in compliance with state law (MGL Chap.71, Sec. 37H), expressly prohibits the use of any tobacco products within school buildings, school facilities, on school buses or on school grounds by any individual, student or adult, at all times, including school events off campus.
 5403  Alcohol, Tobacco and Drug Use by Students Prohibited Update…
2. Alcohol and Drug Policy - Lunenburg High School is sensitive to the need for a rehabilitative approach to drug and alcohol abuse. Appropriate education, counseling, referral, and human understanding are the keys to such an approach.   However, in cases of violations of existing laws, school authorities are required to contact the police department.  Such contact is also necessary when the welfare of other students is at stake.
The use, possession, sale, or transfer of drugs, drug paraphernalia, and alcoholic beverages is prohibited on school property at all times and all school activities at any location. The use or possession of any pharmaceutical substance including over-the-counter medication by a student must be according to medical information previously filed with the school nurse.  No student is to provide any pharmaceutical substance to another student at any time.
In the event that a student is found to be in possession of any of the aforementioned items, or utilizing or under the influence of them at school, parents will be called to remove students.  The student will be suspended for a minimum of three days for the first offense (mandatory) and may be expelled in accordance with this Handbook and the Massachusetts General Laws.  In the event of suspension, on every subsequent offense, or on the first offense when a pattern of previous violations exists, enrollment in a drug and/or alcohol intervention program approved by the school will be recommended to the parents prior to readmission to school.  Subsequent violations of this policy may result 
===PAGE 11===
in increased disciplinary penalties.
Violation of the Alcohol and Drug Policy will also result in ineligibility for extra-curricular activities and organizations as well as athletic participation.   Lunenburg High School is a member of the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA) and is subject to and endorses their "Rules of Eligibility" which can be found at on the MIAA website.   Lunenburg High School’s standards of academic eligibility supersede the MIAA’s minimum standards.
Please note that, for offenses that occur in the summer or between seasons, the penalty will be assessed during the next season or semester.
In the event of suspension, the student will not be readmitted to school until it is determined that the student is no longer a threat to one’s self or others.  Students under the influence of or showing signs of having used alcohol or other drugs will be dealt with in the same manner.
Parents and guardians will be expected to meet their obligations for care and protection of children under Massachusetts law, and the school will act under those laws if its repeated recommendations are ignored by parents and guardians.
Lunenburg High School, compelled by an obligation to protect the student body, will act immediately in any violation of this policy.
The Lunenburg Public Schools has partnered with the Lunenburg Police Department and law enforcement agencies to perform unannounced canine patrols of school property.(School Committee Policy #5406).  
 SC Policy 5406 Approved 3-20-19.pdf
This service and its results are confidential.  Local and State Police Departments, along with the school principal, will determine when and the number of times this service is to be performed.  There is no people-to-canine contact when this service is being performed and the canines remain under the direction and control of the police at all times.  In the event that drugs, weapons or other unlawful or unauthorized items are found, parents will be notified.  All decisions concerning school discipline and police referral will be made by the Principal, or designated administrator, using existing school procedures.
3. Cheating and Plagiarism Policy - Lunenburg High School dedicates itself to instilling academic and moral values within our students. The concept of academic integrity embodies the standards we value. Academic integrity means that each student works as an individual on projects, homework, assignments, term papers, labs, quizzes, and tests. A teacher must explicitly permit collaboration among students or group 
===PAGE 12===
participation on assignments. Unless part of a group project assigned by the teacher, all work submitted by students must be their own. All of the words, concepts, and structure of an assignment must be the student’s own, unless the student properly acknowledges the sources of quotations or paraphrased ideas.
Plagiarism is presenting as one’s own creation the words or ideas of another without citing the original source. According to the MLS Handbook for Writers of Research Papers, plagiarism is derived from the Latin word plagiarius, meaning “kidnapper,” and is considered to be “intellectual theft.” Students need to conduct careful research, distinguishing between notes taken from other sources and ideas of their own (MLA Handbook, 5th edition, 30). Even if a student paraphrases an idea by using their own words rather than directly quoting another author, the student still needs to cite the original source of the idea because it is not their own invention.
Episodes of cheating and plagiarism undermine the academic integrity of this school. Students who cheat or plagiarize are dishonest and destroy the code by which all students must abide to ensure that their education means something. For this reason, cheating and plagiarism will not be tolerated at Lunenburg High School.
Examples of cheating and/or plagiarism include, but are not limited to:
● Copying the work, such as homework assignments or labs, of another student● Allowing another student to copy your work● Providing answers on tests, quizzes, or homework through talking, signs, gestures, or copying● Using cheat sheets● Unauthorized collaboration or group participation on assignments● Use of AI, such as Chat GPT or other platforms, apps, etc. without specific permission or request of a teacher for that particular circumstance, assignment or situation.● Using materials not authorized by the teacher, including calculators, notes, translation websites, apps, phones, watches, etc.● Using any type of electronics or forms of electronic communication● Reusing old papers and essays● Using another’s words, ideas, or opinions as your own without using quotation marks and properly citing the source. This includes books, magazine or newspaper articles, and electronic sources.● Utilizing online translation resources (i.e. Google Translate) to produce parts of projects, homework, or other contributions in a world language classroom without express permission from the teacher● Cutting and pasting information from online sources Internet websites or online database articles without proper citation
===PAGE 13===
● Buying or copying sections of an essay or term paper from a commercial Internet website● Paraphrasing another’s thoughts or ideas but not citing them● Passing in another student’s work (past or present) as your own
If a student is found to have cheated or plagiarized, the following steps will be taken:
A.  The teacher will notify parents by email or telephone call.
B.  The student may receive a grade of zero for the assignment.
C. A written report detailing the incident will be submitted to the administration.     
D.   Repeated violations may result in increasingly severe disciplinary        consequences.
4. Student Harassment - It is the policy of the Lunenburg Public Schools (the “District”) that all of its students have an education/work setting that is safe, secure, and free from harassment and bullying of any kind. The District will not tolerate harassment or bullying of any type. Conduct that constitutes harassment and bullying, as defined herein, is prohibited. This policy applies to student behavior, but all students, staff members, guests and contractors are protected.
(1) Definitions 
A.   Aggressor: Defined as any student or a member of a school staff who engages in bullying, cyber-bullying, or retaliation towards a student.
B.  Harassment: Defined as any threatening, insulting, or dehumanizing gesture, use of data or computer software, or written, verbal, or physical conduct which is derogatory to a person and designed to demean, intimidate, or have the effect of substantially interfering with an individual’s school/work performance. Such action may occur on the basis of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic status, gender, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or sensory, disability or by association with a person who has or is perceived to have one or more of these characteristics or for any other reason.
C. Sexual Harassment: Defined as any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other inappropriate verbal, written, electronically-transmitted, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, including but not limited to unwelcome comments, touching, written notes, pictures/cartoons or other inappropriate conduct such as leering, whistling, brushing up against the body, and/or commenting on sexual activity or body parts. Harassment has the effect of creating an 
===PAGE 14===
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work or learning environment that takes place under any of the following circumstances:
1.      
When submission to such conduct is made, explicitly or implicitly, a term or condition of employment, instruction, or participation in school activities or programs;
 2.      
When submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used by the offender as the basis for making personal or academic decisions affecting the individual subjected to sexual advances;
 3.   When such conduct has the effect of unreasonably interfering with the individual's work, attendance at school or participation in academic or curricular activities, or
4.    When such conduct has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work or learning environment.
D.   Bullying: Defined as the repeated use by one or more students or member of a school staff, of a written, verbal, or electronic expression or a physical act or gesture or any combination thereof, directed at a victim that:(i) causes physical or emotional harm to the target or damage to the target’s property; (ii) places the target in reasonable fear of harm or of damage to his/her property; (iii) creates a hostile environment at school for the target; (iv) infringes on the rights of the target at school; or (v) materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly operation of a school.
Bullying includes direct behaviors like taunting, stealing, threatening, and unwanted physical contact. Bullying also includes indirect behaviors like deliberate exclusion, lying about someone, and spreading rumors. Bullying is a form of harassment.
In addition, it is understood that bullying can be pushing, shoving, hitting, as well as name calling, picking on, making fun of, laughing at and excluding someone. Bullying can be done in person or through the use of the internet and other technologies. Bullying causes pain and stress to victims and is never justified or excusable as “kids being kids”, “just teasing” or any other rationalization.   The victim is never responsible for being a target of bullying.
E.  Cyber-bullying: Defined as the use of the Internet, cell phones or 
===PAGE 15===
other electronic devices to send, post or text messages and/or images and material intended to hurt or embarrass another person. This may include, but is not limited to: continuing to send e-mail to someone who has said they want no further contact with the sender; sending or posting threats, sexual remarks or pejorative labels (i.e. hate speech); ganging up on targets by making them the subject of ridicule in online forums, and/or posting false statements as fact intended to humiliate the target; disclosure of personal data, such as the target’s real name, address, or school on websites or forums; posing as the identity of the target for the purpose of publishing material in their name that defames or ridicules them; sending threatening and harassing text, instant/direct messages, or emails to the target(s); and posting or sending rumors or gossip to instigate others to dislike and gang up on the target, which is determined to have a material and substantial interference with school activities or with the rights of students and teachers.
 Cyber-bullying shall also include the distribution by any electronic means of a communication to more than one person or the posting of material on an electronic medium that may be accessed by one or more persons, if the distribution or posting creates any of the conditions enumerated in clauses (i) to (v), inclusive, of the definition of bullying. Cyber-bullying is a form of bullying.
F. Hazing: Defined as any conduct or method of initiation into any student organization, whether on public or private property, which willfully or recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person. Such conduct shall include, but is not limited to, whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the weather, forced consumption of any food, liquor, beverage, drug or other substance or any other brutal treatment or forced physical activity which is likely to adversely affect the physical health or safety of any student or person, or which subjects any student or person to extreme mental stress, including extended deprivation of basic necessities(i.e. sleep, food) or extended isolation.
G.  Hostile environment: Defined in M.G.L. c. 71,§ 370, is a situation in which bullying causes the school environment to be permeated with intimidation, ridicule, or insult that is sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of a student’s education.
H.  Retaliation: Defined as any form of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment directed against a student who reports bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or witnesses or has reliable information about bullying.
I.  School Staff: Includes, but is not limited to, educators, 
===PAGE 16===
administrators, counselors, school nurses, cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic coaches, advisors to extracurricular activities, support staff, or paraprofessionals.
J. Target: Defined a student against whom harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, cyber bullying, or retaliation has been perpetrated.
(2) Expectations
Every district student has the right to travel to and from school on buses; participate in academic classes and vocational programs; walk the corridors and stairwells; have lunch in the cafeteria; participate in sports, clubs, activities and school functions; make friendships; express individuality; enjoy a sense of belonging; leave past mistakes behind; and achieve greater success and confidence. Students have the right to do all these things in safety, free from harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation, or humiliation. 
Certain students may be more vulnerable to become targets of bullying, harassment, or teasing based on actual or perceived characteristics, including race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic status, homelessness, academic status,gender, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or sensory, disability or by association with a person who has or is perceived to have one or more of these characteristics. Each school in the District will create a safe, supportive environment for vulnerable populations in the school community and provide all students with the skills, knowledge, and strategies to prevent or respond to bullying, harassment, or teasing.
District employees and guests are similarly entitled to a safe and secure environment, where they are treated with civility and respect.
Under Massachusetts Law, harassment or bullying of any student or employee is prohibited:
(i)  on school grounds and property immediately adjacent to school grounds,
(ii) at a school-sponsored or school-related activities, functions or programs whether on or off school grounds,
(iii) at a bus stop, or on a school bus or other vehicle owned, leased or used by the District,
(iv) through the use of technology or an electronic device owned, leased or used by the District,
===PAGE 17===
(v) at a location, activity, function or program that is not school-related, or through the use of technology or an electronic device that is not owned, leased or used by The District, if the harassment or bullying creates a hostile environment at school for the target, infringes on the rights of the target at school or materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly operation of a school.
(3) Consequences -  Every complaint of harassment will result in an investigation of the circumstances and an interview of the offending person. Harassing behavior will be stopped. If a complaint is found to be deliberately false, there will be disciplinary consequences. If there is a pattern of deliberately false complaints levied against the same individual, it may be deemed an act of bullying or harassment.
Consequences and appropriate interventions for students who commit an act of bullying or harassment will result in, but will not be limited to, disciplinary consequences that could include counseling, loss of school privileges, detention, Saturday school, suspension or expulsion, and/or notification of the police.
Consequences and appropriate interventions for an employee found to have committed an act of bullying or harassment will be instituted in accordance with District policies, procedures and agreements.
Consequences and appropriate intervention for a visitor or volunteer found to have committed an act of bullying or harassment shall be determined by the Superintendent after consideration of the nature and circumstances of the act, including reports to appropriate law enforcement officials.
(4) Reporting an act of Bullying or Harassment
A. The building principal is responsible for receiving oral and/or written complaints alleging violations of this policy. If a reported bullying incident involves the principal or assistant principal as the alleged aggressor, the superintendent or designee shall be responsible for investigating the report, and other steps necessary to implement the Plan, including addressing the safety of the alleged target. If the superintendent is the alleged aggressor, the School Committee chairperson shall be responsible for investigating the report and other steps necessary to implement the plan, including addressing the safety of the alleged target.
B. All employees are required and must report, in writing, any instance of bullying or retaliation those employees have witnessed or become aware of to the principal or school official identified as responsible for receiving such reports or both. Failure to report will result in action(s) or discipline, up to and including termination of 
===PAGE 18===
employment.
C. Any other member of the school community with credible information that an act of bullying or harassment has taken place is encouraged to file a report, whether a target or a witness.
D. Any student (or parent/guardian on the student’s behalf) who believes he/she oneself to be a target of bullying or harassment is strongly encouraged to report and/or discuss the incident with an adult (teacher, counselor, nurse, administrator).
E. Complaints may be filed anonymously; however no disciplinary action shall be taken against a student solely on the basis of an anonymous report.
F. Complaints should be filed as soon as possible after the alleged incident(s). Failure to report incidents of harassment in a timely manner may have an adverse impact on the school’s ability to conduct a meaningful investigation.
A. If the principal or the assistant principal is the alleged aggressor, the report is made to the Superintendent who is responsible for the investigation. If the alleged aggressor is the Superintendent, the report is made to the Chair of the School Committee who will investigate.
 (5)  Investigation and Resolution - Every complaint of harassment will result in an   investigation of the circumstances and an interview of the offending person(s).
A. In situations involving students, parents will be informed of the situation and invited to participate in resolution discussions.
B. Failure to participate in an investigation and/or resolution meeting will result in appropriate discipline
C. The principal or designee will make a determination based upon all of the facts and circumstances. If, after investigation, bullying or harassment is substantiated, the principal or designee will take reasonably calculated steps to prevent recurrence and to ensure that the target is not restricted from participating either in school or in school activities from which they may benefit.
D.Referral to law enforcement will be considered based on the circumstances.
===PAGE 19===
E. Regardless of the determination’s outcome, any parent wishing to file a claim/concern or seeking assistance outside of the district may do so with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education via the Program Resolution System (PRS). That information can be found at http://www.doe.mass.edu/pqa.  Emails can be sent to compliance@doe.mass.edu , or individuals can call 781-338-3700. Hard copies of this information are also available at the superintendent’s office.
All attempts will be made to resolve the situation as confidentially and quickly as the circumstances permit. Harassing behavior will be stopped.
(6)  Retaliation - Retaliation in any form against any person who has made or filed a complaint relating to harassment is forbidden. Individuals accused of harassment, or involved in an investigation, will be warned that there can be no discussion or the incident and no retaliation against a student or employee who makes a complaint. If retaliation occurs, it could be considered grounds for dismissal of personnel and/or removal from the educational setting for a student. A referral to law enforcement may be made.
(7)  Confidentiality -  To the extent possible, all reports of harassment will be kept confidential, consistent with necessary investigation procedures, and with the goal of protecting the target and stopping the behavior. For further information about these guidelines, or help with sexual harassment problems or any other form of harassment, contact the Office of the Superintendent.
1.   To administer a physical restraint only when needed to protect a student and/or a member of the school community from immediate, serious, physical harm; and
2.   To prevent or minimize any harm to the student as a result of the use of physical restraint.
Refer to 603CMR 46,02 for more information.
    