===PAGE 1===
Fall 2 Athletic Updates/Proposal 
Lunenburg Middle-High School  
 
OVERVIEW  
On February 2nd, the MIAA Board of Directors voted to allow play with modifications for the following 
sports and activities. Football, Indoor Track, Unified Basketball, and Cheer. The district athletic 
committee and Midland Wachusett League approved what has been adopted by the MIAA with further 
protocols and guidance for schools to help navigate and implement safety measures for the sports to 
occur.   
Projected start dates for Fall 2:  
 Monday, February, 22nd- Football (required 15 days of practice before 1st competition) Possible 
1st game 3/26 
 Monday, March, 1st – Cheer, Unified Basketball, Indoor Track(Outside) Possible meet(s) in April  
 
General Guideline Updates:  
 All athletes, coaches, staff, and spectators must wear a mask at all times during the practice or 
event, and remain social distance when not actively participating. ∙ Schools districts will continue 
to follow and adhere to any updated State/EEA and local board of health guidelines and 
recommendations.  
 Locker rooms are not allowed for use other than to change quickly  
 Practice time is limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes of sport-specific activity 
 No Concessions during the fall 2 season 
 Updated EEA guidelines now allows for certain activities to be held indoors (limit of 25 
participants at a time) 
 Football is allowed to conduct indoor activities at Level 1 play is defined: Individuals or socially 
distanced group activities (non-contact workouts, aerobic conditioning, individual skill work, and 
drills 
 Indoor Track can conduct practice inside (limited to the 25 participant guideline)  
 Cold weather recommended guidelines will be followed for practice and games during the 
upcoming season. Normally we are not outside every day for practices and events during this 
time on a consistent basis.  (updated attachment cold weather recommended guidelines) 
Sport Specific Guidelines:  
⮚ Unified Basketball  
 Following the established guidelines and protocols that was developed for basketball that 
occurred this past season.  
 Roster limit of 15 athletes/partners and no more then 5 adults (coaches and aids).  
 League has established this season will be skills and drills sessions.  
===PAGE 2===
 May have the opportunity for virtual competitions with other schools.  
 No traveling to other districts for games or competitions will be occurring.  
⮚ Cheer   
 The maximum roster size is 20 athletes   
 If permissible cheering would only be allowed for home football contests o If able to cheer at 
home contests cheer would occur in the back portion of the far end zone  
 When cheering in formation members of the team must be 10 feet apart. 
 Stunt groups have a maximum size of 10 athletes, and when stunting have to remain 14 feet 
apart, mixing bases and flyers will not occur, and 14-foot spacing must occur while remaining on 
the proper surface for stunting.  
 Stunts that include inversions, twisting, and the building of pyramids are not  permitted  
 During indoor sessions, team members may only use their normal speaking voice, when outside 
they can project their voices.  
⮚ Indoor Track (Outside)  
 Specific modifications made are more for conducting meets.  
 These are practices only with the possibility to have an opportunity for a meet outside in April.  
 Unlike cross country where students were able to lower their mask if they were spaced 10-14 
feet from another competitor, a mask must be worn at all times during practices and meets.  
 Social distancing needs to be maintained throughout all practices and meets to eliminate the 
potential of gatherings at the start and finish line, waiting for an event to occur, and before or 
after practices and competitions.   
⮚ Football  
 Team Rosters: Limited to 45 players and 6 coaches  
 Current EEA guidelines, football-related activities must be held outdoors  
 Home teams are required to delineate 6 feet of social distancing with some  type of marker  
 Per EEA guidelines no more than 25 players can be on one half of a field at  one time  
 Huddles, if they occur need to have everyone facing the same direction, and  players need to be 
properly spaced  
 Mandatory water breaks at the halfway point of each quarter  
 The time in between each quarter, after a successful score, prior to a kickoff and timeouts have 
been extended to allow for hydrating and mask breaks.  
 People in the press box must maintain social distancing (our press box would  hold 2 people)  
 Per EEA guidelines no football activities may take place indoors  
 Avoid group contact, high fives, celebrations, group huddles etc.   
 During practice, full-contact drills can only occur up to 30 minutes per week and no more than 
15 minutes on a given day.   
 Designated ball sanitizing person for games  
 Any equipment used will be sanitized after the practices and games  
 A designated person will be assigned to sanitize the balls during the games  
 All game personal will wear facial coverings and maintain appropriate distance when working 
the sideline.   
===PAGE 3===
Cold Weather Guidelines:  
Due to activities being held outside during a month’s where athletic activities are not 
normally conducted on a daily basis, the athletes and coaches are expected to adhere to the following to 
ensure their health and safety during the upcoming Fall 2 season.  
 All athletes will have warm-up gear for all practices and events  
 Head and neck will be covered when possible, and all other extremities should be covered at all 
times to protect from the wind chill. 
 
1. Good conditions- 30 degrees F & above- Outside participation allowed w/appropriate clothing  
2. Less than Ideal Conditions- 25-29 degrees - Outside participation allowed w/appropriate 
clothing, be aware of the potential for cold injury 
3. Moderate Risk- 16 degrees F – 24 degrees F- Mandate additional protective clothing (hat, gloves, 
leggings) Provide re-warming facilities  
4. High-Risk- 1 degree F – 15 degrees - Outside participation limited to 45 minutes/Modifications to 
outdoor activities* All participants must have appropriate clothing, Provide re-warming facilities  
5. Extreme Risk- 0 Degrees F or below- Cancelation of all outside activities   
  
===PAGE 4===
Additional information  
 Registration would open for Fall 2 sports on 2/11 and close on 2/20 
 Parent/player meeting for football will be 2/19 or 2/22 
 Parent/player meeting for Indoor track, Unified Basketball and Cheer will be 2/25 
 Spectator guidelines have changed in the latest EEA guidance and the football pod and league 
will be developing spectator guidelines/protocols 
 A dedicated Covid crate will be provided to each team, with sanitizing and PPE products.  
 Sanitizing stations will be located both outside and inside and students will use one entrance 
and one exit 
 The use of the gym will follow the protocols that were used during the winter season 
 If the school is remote due to snow, all practices and events will be canceled  
 Practices days: All practice and games are weather permitting 
 Football- 5-6 days of activity 
 Track- 3-4 days  
 Cheer 3-4 days 
 Unified Basketball 2-3 days  
 Football players will be provided with an 8 oz. spray bottle with equipment sanitizer to  use after 
games and practices on their equipment  
 Indoor use of the school on weekends will not be allowed 
 Portable toilets will be rented for practices and games  
Seeking approval from school committee:  
1. to enable Lunenburg to participate in Fall 2 athletics in accordance with the 
established guidelines and protocols.  
2. Allow the use of the facility as a host site for football to be able to hold a season 
a. Expected football pod- Lunenburg, Quabbin, Gardner, Narragansett, Murdock, 
Ayer/Shirley 
b. Gardner and Lunenburg would be host sites for football games Friday afternoon and 
Saturday late morning and/or early afternoon 
c. Narragansett would use our turf field for 1 day of field practice, Ayer/Shirley is 
interested in practicing at the facility for more than 1-day 
d. Porto toilet rental cost will be divided amongst the pod schools 
e. Custodial Cost for game days will be divided amongst the pod schools  
f. Ayer/Shirley will provide athletic trainer coverage at Lunenburg on game days and 
Quabbin will provide athletic trainer coverage at Gardner on game days  
g. Designated areas for team and spectators will be created for game day  
h. When established spectators will have to pre-register for the game and check in with 
their own school appointed personel.  
i. School athletic directors will be present at all football games 
j. More protocol and guidance is being developed 
3. Recommend the user fees for Fall 2 sports be:  
i. Football- No Change  
ii. Cheer- No Change 
iii. Indoor Track- reduced to $100 per athlete  
===PAGE 5===
iv. Unified Basketball- reduced to $50 per athlete 
The user fee reduction for unified basketball and indoor track due to the loss of meets/games. 
However, the reduced fee for indoor track will help go towards the purchase of boys indoor track 
uniforms. Additionally, the fees will go towards the purchase of equipment to accommodate 
individual use, and to adjust to the guidelines established to safely conduct the sport.  
 