===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Athletic Department  
 
 
 
 
2021-2022 
 
Coaching Handbook 
 
The Lunenburg Public School Schools do not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, 
national origin, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, or any other class protected by law. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
The Lunenburg Middle-High School Athletic Department Coaching Handbook is designed as a guide for 
the personnel to ensure that the athletic program functions under standards consistent with the 
accepted goals for interscholastic competition. First and foremost, coaches represent Lunenburg 
Middle-High School as a public institution, with a character on and off the playing surface. Our primary 
commitment is to promote the development of young men and women in our care. We are charged to 
model positive morals at all times. Each member of the Lunenburg Middle-High School Athletic 
Department has the professional responsibility to adhere to the policies and procedures contained 
therein.  
 
Purpose and Philosophy  
 
The Lunenburg-Middle High School Interscholastic Athletic Program is an extension of the middle-high 
school curriculum that provides activities for the growth and development of our students. At 
Lunenburg Middle-High School, we believe that the interscholastic athletic program contributes 
significantly to preparing our students for becoming productive, contributing citizens of our community 
and society. A comprehensive program of athletic activities expresses our commitment to ensure the 
development of physical fitness and personal health, the acquisition of competent performances, and 
the achievement of excellence in the student’s chosen sports.  
 
In addition, we aim to develop a student with an improved self-image, the ability to learn a new skill, 
and intrinsic motivation for growth and development. We want to see a student who will demonstrate a 
willingness to accept responsibility for his/her actions, measure him/herself against the standards of 
quality. Express ideas and solutions to problems, and value play, honesty, and cooperation. We wish to 
excel in athletics. Just as we desire to excel in all activities and functions in the name of the school.  
 
Code of Ethics for Coaches  
(as stated in the MIAA Handbook) 
 
Each high school coach is first a TEACHER. The student-athlete is participating in the school's activity 
program because he or she desires to do so. Consequently, that student is often more attentive to 
coaches' lessons than to those offered by teachers in required courses. The coach must be aware that 
he/she serves as a model in the education of the student-athlete and, therefore, shall never place the 
value of winning above the value of character building.  
 
The function of an interscholastic coach is to educate students in “LIFE LESSONS,” through participation 
in interscholastic competition. The interscholastic program is designed to enhance academic 
achievement and should never interfere with opportunities for academic success. Every young person 
should be treated as though they were the coaches' own and their safety/welfare has to be paramount 
at all times.  
 
The coach has to be aware that he or she has a tremendous influence on the education of the student-
athlete and, thus, shall never place the value of winning above the value of instilling the highest 
desirable ideals of character.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
The coach shall be thoroughly acquainted with the Lunenburg Middle-High School policies, athletic 
department policies, Midland Wachusett League policies, MIAA state rules, and regulations, as well as 
contest rules and is responsible for their interpretation to team members and parents. The spirit and 
letter of rules and policies should be regarded as a mutual agreement. The coach shall not try to seek an 
advantage by circumvention of the spirit or letter of the rules.  
 
1. Coaches shall serve as positive role models for their players. 
 Accept seriously the responsibility and privilege of representing the school and the community; 
display positive public actions at all times. 
 Uphold the honor and dignity of the profession. In all personal contact with the student-athlete, 
officials, athletic directors, school administrators, the state high school association (MIAA), the 
media, and the public, the coach shall strive to set an example of ethical and moral conduct. 
 Be a positive role model for his/her athletes throughout all practice sessions and games. This 
would include providing proper examples of sportsmanlike attitudes toward the opposing team 
and coaches. Only positive motivational techniques shall be used at all times. 
 Exemplify dignified behavior and self-control at all times. A coach who is under control at all 
times will have few behavioral problems with his/her team and will greatly influence the 
behavior of spectators in the stands. 
 Be thoroughly acquainted with the contest rules and be responsible for their interpretation of 
team members. The spirit and letter of the rules should be regarded as mutual agreements. 
 The coach shall not try to seek an advantage by circumvention of the spirit or letter of the rules. 
 Refrain from directing harassing, humiliating, embarrassing, or condescending comments to 
team members or actions that are harassing, humiliating, embarrassing, or condescending. 
 Refrain from swearing or using vulgar language. 
 Avoid the use of alcohol and/or tobacco products when in contact with players. 
2. Coaches shall encourage student-athletes to maintain good grades. 
 Stress that it is the responsibility of the student-athlete to remain scholastically eligible for 
extra-curricular activities. 
 Monitor students’ grades through the use of the athlete's PowerSchool, academic updates from 
the athletic director, and end of marking period reports using the following guidelines. 
o Monitor students showing signs of struggle. 
o Encourage students to obtain after-school help or tutoring 
o Refrain from asking faculty members to give student-athletes special consideration. 
3. Coaches shall encourage and develop a sense of community. 
 Refrain from allowing non-team members to sit on the players’ bench or be at practice. 
 Promote the entire interscholastic program of the school and direct his/her program in harmony 
with the total school program. 
4. Coaches shall instill in student-athletes the importance of good sportsmanship, stressing that 
student-athletes should: 
 Treat opponents with respect; shake hands before and after the contest. 
 Respect the judgment of contest officials, abide by the rules of the contest, and display no 
behavior that could incite the fans. 
 Cooperate with officials, coaches, and fellow participants in conducting a fair contest. 
5. Coaches shall practice good sportsmanship 
 Always set a good example for participants and fans to follow, exemplifying the highest moral 
and ethical behavior. 
 Refrain from promoting personal politics, religious views, or bias of any kind. 
===PAGE 4===
4 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
 Instruct and display participants in proper sportsmanship. 
 Treat opposing coaches, participants, fans, and officials with respect. 
 Develop and enforce penalties for participants who do not abide by positive sportsmanship 
standards. 
 Meet rival coaches before and after contests and exchange friendly greetings to set the correct 
tone for the event. 
 Respect and support contest officials. The coach shall not indulge in conduct that will incite 
players or spectators against the officials.  
 Never seek out an official during halftime or after a contest. 
 Thank an official after a game for a well-officiated game, win or lose. 
 Scout opponents only by any means other than those adopted by the league and/or state high 
school athletic association. 
 
6. Coaches shall always be professional. 
 Do not discuss specific students with others. Constructive feedback should be given to players 
confidentially. 
 Investigate an incident thoroughly, in conjunction with the Athletic Director before accusing a 
student of an infraction. 
 Take an active role in the prevention of drug abuse including alcohol and tobacco and under 
no circumstances should authorize their use. 
 Members of the coaching staff will advise the Athletic Director of matters about coaching and 
athletics before going to the Principal, Superintendent, or School Committee. 
 Know your job description and follow through on all matters and communications, especially 
submitting information to the Athletic office regarding physicals, awards lists, eligibility, etc., on 
time. 
 Complete and maintain all necessary coach eligibility requirements. (see Coaches’ Eligibility 
section) 
 Follow established procedures for the distribution and collection of equipment and uniforms. 
 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Coaches’ Responsibilities and Procedures 
Attend 
 League Preseason Coaches Meeting  
 Preseason Coaches’ Meeting and Athletic Awareness/Meet the Coach Night. 
 All practices and interscholastic contests. 
 League end of season coaches meeting 
 End-of-season awards night 
 
Submit information for awards on time 
 End of season rosters for each team 
 End of season awards to be given at awards night 
 Senior award nominations 
 Student-athlete eligibility and rosters 
NO ATHLETE MAY PARTICIPATE IN ANY ATHLETIC PRACTICE OR CONTEST WITHOUT BEING CLEARED 
THROUGH THE ATHLETIC OFFICE FIRST. Please see the Student-Athlete Eligibility section. 
 Update the roster in FinalForms, if any players are added to, dropped from the team, are called 
up, switch numbers, etc.  
 
Daily Procedures  
 
 Coaches need to be communicating regularly with the parents and players through the SportYou 
app and the team-specific pages.  
 Types of communication expected are: 
o Schedule changes: practices/games 
o Program updates/check-ins 
o Training tips or videos 
o Game or contest results 
o Important updates or information  
 Respect your athletes and parents by ending practice when scheduled. 
 Allow students time after school to transition from academics to athletics by allowing a 
minimum of 30 minutes between dismissal and practice. 
 In the event of an unexpected school cancellation or early dismissal due to severe weather or 
some emergency, practice schedules must be approved by the Athletic office. 
 Check the daily attendance (update provided by the athletic department if needed) email and 
enforce the attendance policy (see Attendance). 
 If a coach cancels a practice, please notify the Athletic Office no later than 1:30 pm to allow for 
an end-of-the-day announcement and post on the SportsYou Team page. Practices should not be 
canceled regularly. 
 Practice sessions should be well planned, well structured, and should not exceed two hours 
(excluding time for dressing, showering, warm-up, cool-down, meeting, or reviewing game film). 
 Teams shall not compete/practice seven consecutive days. 
o Varsity teams are expected to practice/compete 5-6 days a week 
o JV teams 5-6 days a week 
o Freshmen/Middle School teams will not practice on weekends although they may have 
contests. 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
 
Supervision 
 Coaches should be the first to arrive and the last to leave any practice or event. 
 Supervision and expectations for the time between school and practice/event are to be 
established. 
 AT NO TIME SHOULD STUDENT-ATHLETES BE LEFT UNATTENDED. You need to wait for rides. 
 Students should never be in the gym, trainers’ room or, weight room unattended. 
 All equipment should be cleaned up, stored, and secured properly at the end of each day. 
 Encourage student-athletes to secure their belongings during practices and games.  
The Athletic Department cannot be responsible for items missing that have not been secured. 
 Report contest results to Athletic Director as well as to local media (varsity). Information 
regarding newspaper contacts is located on SportsYou 
 
Team Selection 
 Coaches should inform all potential candidates for a team of the following 
o Try-out schedule 
o Criteria used to determine team members 
o Number of members to be selected 
o Practice/game commitment for the season 
 Use discretion and confidentiality with all cut notifications. Cut lists are NOT to be posted 
physically or online. 
 Submit the roster to the athletic office once a team has been determined. 
 
Program rules and regulations 
 It is the responsibility of the head coach to develop program rules relative to the team and 
individual conduct, personal grooming, attendance at practices and contests, etc. These 
program rules should be made known to all team members before the first tryout. 
 These rules must first be submitted to the Athletic Director. 
 Develop only standards that are meaningful and which can be justified and respected by all 
team members as a means of developing team discipline, pride, and individual character. 
 Be sure your team rules include information about whether or not practices are open or closed 
to spectators. 
 Keep the Building Principal and Athletic Director informed relative to major disciplinary action. 
 
Equipment/Uniforms 
 Coaches are responsible for team-issued equipment. 
 Follow established equipment and uniform procedures as established by the Athletic 
Department. 
 Ensure that team members are present when uniforms are being distributed and collected. 
 Teams are to wear the uniforms provided during all contests. 
 
Early Dismissals from school 
 Dismissal from class time is to be minimal if necessary at all. 
 Students will NOT be dismissed from class for a home event, practice, or scrimmage. 
 When necessary, contact the Athletic Office to arrange for early dismissal. 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Bus transportation 
 Student-athletes are expected to ride the bus to all away contests when transportation is 
provided. The nature of some sports, practices, and events students are expected to be 
transported to the site of the contest and/or practice.  Exceptions are made only in the most 
extreme circumstances and must be approved in advance by the Athletic Office. 
 If a student does not ride the bus with the team without prior approval he/she may not 
participate in the event. 
 Parents wishing to transport their child home from an away contest must notify the athletic 
office and/or coach 24 hours in advance. We do understand that things may arise last minute or 
the day of an event, but for planning purposes please try to inform all parties as soon as 
possible.  
 No student should be allowed to leave an away event with anyone other than their parent, and 
only when permission has been granted by the athletic office or coach. 
 
Promote the whole athlete 
 Encourage participation in multiple sports by all student-athletes. 
 Demonstrate and encourage healthy eating. 
 Practice and promote good hydration. 
 
Security  
 
Key Cards 
 Coaches that are employed by the district will receive a school Key Card which will allow you 
access to the building. 
 Key Cards are NOT to be shared/lent/given to other people. 
 Report your Key Card lost or stolen immediately. 
 Volunteer coaches will not be issued Key Cards. 
 
Alarm Codes 
 Varsity coaches will have alarms codes to access the building after hours and on 
weekends/holidays. 
 Alarm codes are NOT to be shared. If there is a reason someone else needs a temporary alarm 
code, check in with Athletics. 
 Access to the building using these Key Cards and alarm codes is to be used for high school 
athletic business only. The use of these to gain access for other organizations is strictly 
forbidden. 
 Doors are NOT to be propped open at any time. Safety, security, and supervision are the most 
important things. 
 
Adhere to District and State Policies 
 The coach is responsible for being knowledgeable of and upholding all school, District, and State 
policies. 
 Review the MIAA handbook and policies as well as the sport-specific Policies and Procedures. 
 Follow all Lunenburg School District Policies. (See Lunenburg School District important policies 
section online). 
 Read and understand the Student-Athlete Parent Handbook and Captains Handbook 
  
===PAGE 8===
8 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
 
Additional Responsibilities of Head Coaches 
 
In addition to those listed above, Head Coaches have even greater responsibilities: 
 
Program Development 
 As the head coach, ultimately everything that occurs at the freshmen, JV, and varsity level is 
your responsibility. 
 Establish program rules, expectations, and guidelines that all teams will follow. 
 Attend JV, freshman, middle school team games. 
 Develop a program not only within the high school but within the town. 
 
Feeder program connection 
 Contact middle schools and youth programs in Lunenburg about clinics and/or joint practices. 
 Have a youth event at one of your contests. 
 Have the program volunteer at one of their events. 
 
Assistant, JV, and Freshman coaches 
 Assist in the hiring of coaches that will coach in your programs. 
 Monitor, support, and encourage these coaches. 
 Complete evaluations of these coaches on an annual basis 
 
Exposing players to the next level 
 Speak with student-athletes about the opportunities for playing collegiate sports and the 
necessary process to do so. 
 Contact college coaches on behalf of your student-athletes. 
  
===PAGE 9===
9 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Duties to Avoid Liability 
The best way to avoid possible lawsuits is to follow written policies. Nothing will place a coach in 
jeopardy faster than not following rules! 
 
1. Duty to Plan:  
This is the threshold duty and only through proper planning can all other duties be fulfilled. The 
coach owes his athletes sound planning – for practices, training, injury prevention, and 
emergency response/ This duty is a strand that flows through all other duties. Progression is 
essential. A coach must plan skills instruction, practices, and drills so that athletes do not move 
too rapidly into techniques, scrimmages, or contests that are beyond their skill levels. A coach 
wants athletes to improve, but improvement should not be forced. 
2. Duty to Supervise:  
The coach must be physically present to provide adequate supervision. All coaches must 
ensure that facilities are locked and students cannot gain access without proper supervision. 
Most sports-related lawsuits cite the coach’s failure to be present during practice or in a locker 
room. If athletes are present, the coach must be present. It’s that simple; it’s that important! 
3. Duty to Assess Athletes Readiness for Practice and Competition: 
 A coach must evaluate the athletes on his or her team for injuries or incapacities and determine 
any limitations on participation caused by that injury or incapacity. This is a demanding task and 
may include trying to ascertain the mental condition of athletes and perhaps even noting 
possible cases of abuse. 
4. Duty to Maintain Safe Playing Environment: 
 It is a coach’s duty to provide a safe environment for practice and play. This includes not only 
the playing field and the gymnasium but also the proper use of equipment. It is the coach’s 
responsibility to inspect the facility and equipment regularly and thoroughly and report any 
concerns to the Athletic Director. 
5. Duty to Instruct:  
Athletic practices must be characterized by instruction that accounts for a logical sequence of 
fundamentals that lead to an enhanced progression of player knowledge, skill, and capability. 
Instruction must demonstrate appropriate and safe techniques. 
6. Matching or Equating Opponents:  
It is a coach’s duty to fairly match or equate players for practice or competitive conditions. The 
more body contacts the sport generates, the more careful the coach must be in matching 
participants. 
7. Duty to Condition Properly:  
Practices must account for a progression of cardiovascular and musculoskeletal conditioning. 
Consideration must be given to weather, maturation, and readiness. 
8. Duty to Warn: 
 A coach must warn athletes of the inherent risks in the sport and the dangers of using 
questionable techniques. A coach must repeat these warnings sufficiently so that athletes know, 
understand, and appreciate the possible risks. 
9. Duty to Provide Emergency Care:  
The coach must provide proper first aid and establish emergency medical procedures that can 
be put immediately into action. 
 
 
===PAGE 10===
10 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Coaching Requirements 
 
Once recommended to the District Office for hire as a coach in the Lunenburg Athletics Department 
several items must be attended to. 
1. CORI Check- Criminal Record Background Check (every 3 years) 
2. FBI criminal record checks with fingerprinting. This has a cost to you. 
o This must be done before working with the students. 
3. Complete all necessary paperwork on the Town of Lunenburg website under new 
employees (completed when hired) 
4. Town of Lunenburg Seasonal Employment Form (yearly) 
5. MIAA Implicit Bias Pledge (yearly) 
 
Coaches Education  
(Requirements per MIAA Rule) 
 
All coaches first serving as interscholastic coaches after July 1, 2005, must complete an MIAA sponsored 
or approved coaches education course of study. The approved course will consist of the National 
Federation of High Schools (NFHS) Coaches’ Principles Course (must be passed before coaching a second 
year) and the NFHS Sports First Aid* course (must be passed before coaching the third year). 
All coaches first serving as an interscholastic coach after July 1, 2007, must complete the NFHS Coaches’ 
Principles Course, the NFHS Sports First Aid course, and the NFHS Sport Specific Technical and Tactical 
Skills Course in the sport they are coaching (must be completed before coaching the third year). Note: 
The sport-specific requirement will begin on July 1, 2007, or when the particular sport-specific course 
becomes available, if after this date. 
 
The NFHS Coaching Principles Course requirement must be met through attending an MIAA sponsored 
Coaching Principles Clinic. 
 
Concussion course certificate  
 Free online course “Concussion in Sports-What you Need to Know” through National Federation 
of High Schools Http://nfhslearn.com https://nfhslearn.com/courses/61064/concussion-in-
sports  
 This MUST be completed before you start. 
 Must be redone every even year. 
 
 Heat Illness course certificate 
 Free online course “Heat Illness Prevention” through National Federation of High Schools 
Http://nfhslearn.com https://nfhslearn.com/courses/34000/heat-illness-prevention  
 This MUST be completed before you start. 
 
The Collapsed Athlete certificate 
 Free online course “The Collapsed Athlete” through National Federation of High Schools 
https://nfhslearn.com/courses/the-collapsed-athlete  
 This MUST be completed before you start. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 11===
11 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
 
Implicit Bias certificate *New requirement implemented by the MIAA Winter 2021* 
 Free online course “Implicit Bias” through National Federation of High Schools 
Http://nfhslearn.com  https://nfhslearn.com/courses/implicit-bias   
 This MUST be completed before you start. 
 Must be redone every even year. 
 
CPR, AED, First Aid Certification 
 We offer classes several times per year through the district 
 The certification is valid for 2 years  
 Certification must be kept current after that to continue coaching each year. 
 
NFHS Sports Specific Course  
 
Coaching Principles Course 
 This is a one-time requirement. 
 Available courses are listed under Coaches’ Corner 
 This is a blended course – part classroom/part online. The online-only version is not valid. 
 We will reimburse the course fee after you complete the online test and submit the certificate. 
 
MIAA Sport Specific Rules. Policies, and Procedures 
 Follow the NFHS sport-specific rule book 
 Each sport has a policy and procedure manual published by the MIAA committees 
 Midland Wachusett League Manual Sports Specific sections 
 
 
All certificates or documentation of completed certifications need to be uploaded to your Final Forms 
Account   
===PAGE 12===
12 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
COACHES’ CHECKLIST 
 
The following is a checklist designed to help the coach with planning and organization throughout the 
year. Any further information will be communicated to the coaches through the SportsYou 
Communication App. 
 
Preseason: 
 Confirm schedule(s) with Athletic Director 
 Practice planning 
 Sign-up meeting for all candidates for their program 
 Submit preseason roster to Athletic Director for academic/physical review 
 Inventory – communicate equipment needs to Athletic Director 
 Meet with sub-varsity coaches 
 Coaches’ Education – Regional & National clinics 
 Attend MIAA Coaches Training sessions (if applicable) 
 Attend LHS Preseason coaches meeting 
 Attend Midland Wachusett League Meeting 
In Season: 
• Practice Planning 
• Conduct tryouts in a fair manner to give each athlete adequate time to show his/her 
ability. 
• Use good judgment in conducting practice during inclement weather.  Practice should 
never be held outdoors when there is a threat of thunderstorms. 
• Supervise sub-varsity coaches 
• Supervise locker rooms/gym/fields (home and away) – athletes should not be left alone 
to compete or practice. 
• Report scores after every contest (newspapers, Athletic Director, League Rep) 
• Submit accident/injury reports to the Athletic Director when necessary within 24 hours 
of the injury. 
• Report to the Athletic Director within 24 hours of the game if any unusual event has 
occurred. 
• Discipline his/her team in a firm, fair and consistent manner. 
• The coach shall comply with all MIAA/MID-WAC/Lunenburg rules and regulations. 
• Give players ongoing feedback on their practice and contest performances. 
• Student-athletes should dress appropriately for practices and games. Please refer to the 
Lunenburg Student Handbook. 
Post Season: 
• Inventory equipment 
• Submit a list of award winners to the Athletic Director 
• Post Season Summary Form to Athletic Director 
• Attend Midland Wachusett League Meetings (All-Star meeting/end of season meeting) 
• Attend end of season HS Coaches Meeting w/ the athletic director 
• Attend State/Regional Meeting(s) (if applicable) 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 13===
13 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
 
 
Out of Season: 
• A coach may be involved with an out-of-season team, only if fewer than 50% of those 
team members are candidates for that high school sport. 
• A coach’s high school candidates must constitute the minority of those taking part in the 
out of season sport’s program, and competing on any team at any moment (e.g. no 
more than two basketball candidates could be on the court, on the same team, at any 
point during a practice or game). 
• In individual sports, a ‘sub-group is one athlete (e.g. a gymnastics, swimming/diving, or 
wrestling coach could not provide sports-specific coaching to even a single candidate). 
• A coach is defined as any paid or volunteer member of the athletic staff. 
• The MIAA considers the last coach of record as holding that position until replaced by 
the Principal. 
• A coach may not directly or indirectly require an athlete to participate in a sport or a 
training program outside of the MIAA defined sports season. 
 
General: 
Coaches should establish and communicate criteria for the following components of their programs 
• Team selection 
• Playing time 
• Captains (please see Review LHS/Team/MIAA Rules (including Taunting and Hazing) with 
players and fill out Anti-Hazing Law form and return to Athletic Director.) 
 
EVALUATION OF COACHES 
 
i. Head coaches will be evaluated by the Athletic Director on an annual basis (observing at 
least one practice and one contest). 
ii. All other coaches will be evaluated by the head coach of that sport.   
iii. Coaching success will be determined, not only by the won and loss records but by the 
contributions made by the coach to the team and the individuals under his/her direction. 
iv. The purpose of the evaluation is to identify areas that may need to be improved. 
v. A conference will be arranged so that the evaluation form may be reviewed. 
vi. All evaluation documents will be signed by the evaluator and the coach. 
vii. The signature of the coach indicates only his/her having seen the document and does not 
imply agreement with the form. 
viii. Each coach will be furnished with a copy of his/her evaluation and may add supplementary 
material if he/she so desires. 
ix. The final decision to retain a coach will be at the discretion of the Principal with counsel 
from the Athletic Director. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 14===
14 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Level Description and Emphasis 
 
A. Middle School-Instructional level- Middle School Students 
B. Junior Varsity- Competitive- Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors Students (7th and 8th  Grade 
students also participate when there is a need) 
C. Varsity- Very Competitive/Instructional (7th  and 8th Grade students may also participate when 
there is a need and this is the only level offered for that sport) 
 
Lunenburg School Committee Policy regarding athletic participation *Updated August 18th, 2021  
 No Grade 6 students will be allowed to participate in HS tryouts or to be placed on a team. 
 Grade 7 and 8 students may only be placed on a high school team in order to provide 
a sufficient roster to compete. 
 If high school students are cut from a team, grade 7 and 8 students are not allowed to be placed 
on the team. 
 
Middle School Teams  
At this level, students become accustomed to the interscholastic practice and play. For many, it is their 
first introduction to competitive sports, different from recreation in its demands and philosophy. 
Gaining experience through training and play should be paramount, not the win/loss record. At this level 
of play, the focus is on learning athletic skills and game rules, fundamentals of team play, social-
emotional growth, physiologically appropriate demands on the adolescent body, and healthy 
competition. All players will receive playing time, as safety and positive participation in practice allow.  
 
Junior Varsity Teams  
This level of competition has an increased emphasis on team play, physical conditioning, and refinement 
of basic skills. Although being successful on the J.V. level is important, winning is not the sole objective. 
This is the level at which the athlete displays his/her readiness for the execution of skills at game speed. 
Athletic abilities, commitments, and positive attitudes will be rewarded and tested in competitive game 
situations. An attempt will be made to allow as many participants as possible to play but not all will play 
equally. At the J.V. level, playing time will be based on the degree of effort, skill improvement, ability to 
compete, and execution of skills at game speed demonstrated by the student-athlete in practice and 
during games.  
 
Varsity Teams  
Varsity competition represents the culmination of each sports program. Normally, juniors and seniors 
make up the majority of the roster. Occasionally, a sophomore and a freshman may be included on the 
team, provided that evidence of advanced levels of physical development, athletic skill, and appropriate 
social-emotional development is demonstrated. The squad size at the varsity level is limited. The 
number of participants on any given team is a function of the number needed to conduct an effective 
and meaningful practice and to play the contest. It is vital that each team member has a role and is 
informed of its importance.  
 
The number of roster positions is relative to the student’s acceptance of their roles in pursuit of the 
team’s goals. While contest participation throughout a season is desirable, a specified amount of playing 
time at the varsity level is never guaranteed. It is the coaches’ responsibility to make clear to the 
student-athlete what his/her role is on the team. A sound attitude and advanced level of skill are 
prerequisites for a position on a varsity team as is the realization that a varsity sport requires full 
===PAGE 15===
15 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
commitment. The dedication and commitment needed to be successful on a varsity team should be 
taken seriously.  
 
*Please note that Lunenburg will follow the MIAA policies regarding a player participating on multiply 
teams on the same day i.e. swing player 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 16===
16 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Appendices 
 
Captains Handbook- Lunenburg Website 
Student-Athlete/Parent Handbook- Lunenburg Website 
 
Attachments 
Coaches Practice Evaluation 
Coaches Game Evaluation 
FinalForms Coaches Playbook 
US Safe Sports Emotional Abuse Handout 
 
 
 
  
===PAGE 17===
17 Lunenburg Middle-High School Coaching Handbook 
 
Acknowledgment 
 
I have received the Coaches Guidebook, and I understand that it is my responsibility to ensure that I and 
my coaching staff (paid and volunteer) to read and comply with the policies and guidelines contained in 
this Guidebook and any revisions made to it. 
 
________________________________________ 
Coaches Signature 
 
________________________________________ 
Coaches Name (Print) 
 
____________________ 
Date 
 
 