===PAGE 1===
Section 5.06 Environmental Support 
A healthy environment purifies air, cleans water, sequesters carbon, protects soil, 
mitigates extreme climate events, prevents species extinction, and promotes the 
public health, safety, and welfare of the Town’s citizens. 
Through its stewardship of Town properties, the Select Board and Town Manager 
shall employ efficient, sustainable, and resilient management practices to identify, 
restore, and protect the Town’s ecosystems and natural resources for current and 
future generations. Recognizing the interconnected nature of a healthy 
environment, these practices will effort to educate residents and local businesses to 
act on their own to restore, conserve, and use natural resources in a responsible 
manner. 
I.Native Vegetation 
A.To promote a healthy and natural environment, the Board establishes 
minimum native vegetation requirements for all new plantings on Town 
properties. 
B.Definition: Native plants are those species that are indigenous to New 
England, New York, and Pennsylvania and that were found prior to 
European settlement. 
C.All new tree installations on Town property shall be native trees. 
D.All new, in ground, shrubs and flower installations shall be at least 70% 
native plants, except, the Town may maintain flower and small-shrub 
gardens that showcase a variety of non-native plants for education, 
beautification, public awareness, or enjoyment. Such plants shall have no 
known negative impact on native ecosystems and all specie(s) in such 
gardens shall be clearly identified by placard for public awareness. 
E.Newly installed grasses on non-athletic fields should be comprised of a mix 
that is at least 50% native to the northeast region of the United States. 
F.Removal of trees and shrubs shall occur as part of a forest management 
strategy or only when necessary for the health and safety of people, 
property, and the facilities and/or infrastructure that supports the operations 
of the Town and its residents. 
G.Neither the Town, nor any third party, shall plant any invasive plant 
identified by the Massachusetts Invasive Plants Advisory Group on Town 
property. 
H.As native wildlife relies on fields, forests, wetlands, and other natural 
features, fields and wooded property shall be maintained as such.  
Page  of 17
===PAGE 2===
I.The activities of Town employees and agents shall minimize disturbance to 
the natural environment. 
II.Pollinator Habitat 
A.Native plants evolved with native pollinators, and the majority of flowering 
plant species rely on those pollinators to make genetically diverse seeds that 
will become the next generation of plants. Many of the seeds, nuts, and fruit 
that result from pollination are essential components of a healthy diet for 
both humans and animals. 
B.Definition: Pollinators are animals (primarily insects, but sometimes avian 
or mammalian) that fertilize plants resulting in the production of seeds and 
fruit. In Lunenburg, pollinators include bees, butterflies, moths, beetles, 
flies, ants, and birds. These small creatures are vital to the ecosystems that 
humans rely upon for sustenance. 
C.Recognizing the massive decline in native pollinator populations due to the 
loss of habitat, the overuse of non-native plants in landscaping, and 
widespread use of pesticides, the Town shall maintain, expand, and create 
new habitats that support native pollinator populations. Designated 
pollinator habitats include: 
1.123 
2.456  
D.The Town Manager, or her designee, shall implement a roadside vegetation 
management strategy that permits select areas to grow for 2-3 years at a 
time without clearing, with considerations for safety and line of sight for 
vehicles. 
1.New roadside vegetation shall consist of resilient grasses and native 
flowers.  
2.The Town shall add pollinator supporting native plants when designing 
rain gardens. 
III.Tree and Shrub Identification in Village District 
A.Plant identification is critical to the conservation of biodiversity. To 
promote public awareness and knowledge and encourage conservation, all 
permanent trees and decorative shrubs, in non-wooded areas, located on 
Town property within the Village District, except those maintained by 
nongovernmental organizations, shall be identified by a placard. Shrubs of 
the same specie located in close proximity to another do not require 
individual placards. Placards shall contain: 
1.Common name 
2.Genus and specie 
Page  of 27
===PAGE 3===
3.Origin (e.g. native, region, country) 
IV .Pesticides 
A.Pesticides shall not be applied to or used at any property under the care and 
custody of the Select Board, and are prohibited from being stored or located 
on Town property, except as noted below. 
B.Definition: Pesticides are defined by the Massachusetts Pesticide Control 
Act as a substance or mixture of substances intended for preventing, 
destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest, and any substance or mixture 
of substances intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant. 
Pesticides shall include herbicides, fungicides, insecticides, miticides, 
avicides, and rodenticides, among others. 
C.Exceptions: There may be circumstances not envisioned by this policy, in 
which the removal of an invasive or dangerous living thing requires the use 
of a killing agent identified as a pesticide. The Board, in coordination with 
the Town Manager, may waive the applicability of this policy by a 
supermajority in unique circumstances. This policy shall not apply to: 
1.Water provided by well or by the Lunenburg Water District containing 
pesticides otherwise lawfully used to maintain a safe drinking water 
supply 
2.Wastewater treatment plants, systems, collection, distribution and the 
material(s) otherwise lawfully required for its maintenance and 
operation 
3.Lakes and waterways, when so approved by the Conservation 
Commission. 
4.Baits or traps for the purpose of rodent control in and immediately 
around structures 
5.Wasp and hornet nest removal in and immediately around structures, 
street lights, parking lots, sidewalks, patios, pathways, and where 
members of the public are known to congregate. 
6.Mosquito Control 
7.Treatments to trees to prevent death due to threat from invasive specie(s) 
V.Fertilizer and Soil Management 
A.Many plants benefit from fertilizers at different points in their lifecycle, to 
receive necessary nutrients for good health. Sustainable stewardship of trees 
and plants requires occasional soil supplementation; a generally natural 
and/or organic land management strategy is encouraged. 
B.Definition: A fertilizer is a substance that enriches the soil with elements 
essential for plant growth, such as nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium, or 
Page  of 37
===PAGE 4===
other substances; fertilizer does not chemicals that are part of dolomite, 
limestone, or lime. 
C.The application of nitrogen or phosphorous is prohibited between October 
15 and April 30. 
D.Fertilizers containing phosphorous or nitrogen may not be applied during or 
immediately prior to heavy rainfall events or when the soil is saturated due 
to intense or extended rainfall. 
E.Phosphorous containing fertilizer shall not be applied to turf unless a soil 
test taken not more than two years before the date of application indicates 
that additional phosphorous is necessary for growth of that turf, or unless 
establishing new turf or re-establishing or repairing turf. 
F.Any single application of nitrogen should not exceed 0.5 pounds of nitrogen 
per 1000 square feet, and the annual aggregate total application of nitrogen 
should not exceed 1.0 pounds per 1000 square feet. 
G.The application of any nitrogen should be organic, slow-release, water-
insoluble form. 
H.Organic/natural fertilizers and soil supplements shall be used, as necessary, 
for routine and cyclical applications to turf and plants. 
I.Professional staff may only use chemical/synthetic fertilizers when its 
application is the best known approach to rescue a plant or area of plants, 
and when other methods have proven unsuccessful. 
J.The following are exempt from this section: 
1.Potted plants. When watering outdoor potted plants that contain 
chemical fertilizers, efforts should be made to minimize run off so that it 
does not enter the stormwater system. 
2.Application of nitrogen for agriculture and horticulture uses, as those are 
otherwise regulated. 
3.Application of compost or other similar materials that are primarily 
organic in nature and are applied to improve the soil condition. 
4.Compost tea or liquid seaweed applications, including formulas with 
less than 5% total nitrogen, when applied in a manner that follows label 
or industry recommendations. 
VI.Town Procurement of Native Plants and Landscaping Materials 
A.Lunenburg-based farmers, growers, and earth movers shall always be 
solicited to source organic plants, rocks, soils, and other material procured 
by the Town, to the extent otherwise permissible by law. 
B.The Town shall, to the extent such plants are reasonably available, source 
native plants that have not been treated with neonicotinoids. 
Page  of 47
===PAGE 5===
C.The Town shall, to the extent such plants are reasonably available, prioritize 
sourcing native plants that are straight species. Straight species are those 
plants that are not cultivars or bred for particular traits. 
D.The Board shall annually provide local plant nurseries and farmers that 
retail plants and/or non-food plant-based products with Section 5.06. 
VII. Energy and Resource Management 
A.The Town Manager, or her designee, shall employ a strategic energy 
management program for all Town facilities and property. 
B.100% of the Town’s electricity consumption shall be supplied or generated 
by renewable sources of energy by and after 2035. 
C.Town employees shall make all practical efforts to procure and employ 
equipment, supplies, and machinery that have the lowest carbon impact 
over its lifespan compared to similar products commercially available. 
D.Town vehicles shall be electric and/or hybrid, when practicable. 
E.If/when Town employees propose capital projects to the Capital Planning 
Committee for vehicles and/or equipment that relies on the consumption of 
fossil fuels for operation, the employee(s) shall provide the Town Manager 
with written justification for why a more energy efficient vehicle or 
equipment isn’t requested. The Town Manager may accept justifications 
due to unavailable alternatives, lifetime cost, maintenance requirements, or 
negative impact on a department’s operational capacity. The Town Manager 
shall provide accepted justifications to the Select Board when presenting 
the annual Capital Plan. 
F.Adjacent trash and recycling receptacles shall be provided at all town 
facilities in public areas. Primary staff break rooms shall include trash, 
recycling, and compost receptacles that are regularly emptied. 
G.The Town Manager or her designee, in coordination with the Green 
Communities Committee, shall provide the Board with an annual energy 
audit of all town property and facilities within 45 days of the end of the 
fiscal year that identifies: 
1.Total water and electricity consumption at all town facilities and 
property 
2.Total gallons of fossil fuels, identified by type (i.e. gasoline, diesel, 
natural gas, heating oil, propane, etc.), consumed by vehicles or for 
heating, and/or other purposes. 
3.Energy and resource consumption comparison, as of FY22. 
4.Operating procedures implemented and efforts made to reduce resource 
consumption during the fiscal year 
5.Projected changes to resource consumption and rationale 
Page  of 57
===PAGE 6===
6.Recommended capital projects that will further reduce energy and/or 
resource consumption at Town properties. 
VIII. Annual Town Clean-up 
A.The Board shall facilitate an annual Town clean-up on a date in mid-April 
and generally from Patriot’s Day through the end of April, that enlists the 
support of residents to keep the community clean and free of inorganic 
debris: 
1.Maps shall be provided and made available at Town Hall and online that 
identify specific areas of Town property and/or in the Town’s right of 
way, that would benefit from cleaning. The Board or its designee shall 
coordinate clean-up activities with other Town agencies that have Town 
property under their care and custody, including the Parks Commission, 
School Committee, and Conservation Commission. 
2.Trash bags shall be available to volunteers at Town Hall and other public 
locations. Residents shall be able to return trash bags from their cleanups 
to the Department of Public Works. 
3.Adult residents may sign up individually and/or on behalf of teams, 
groups, or other organizations (that may include supervised youth) to 
clean identified areas.  
4.Residents who sign up should be encouraged to deliver the trash bags to 
DPW following cleanup. Residents unable to return trash should be able 
to identify an address where they will consolidate trash for a Town 
supported pick-up. 
5.When supported by grants or donations, residents and organizations that 
sign up should be provided with tokens of appreciation (e.g. t-shirts, 
grabbers, raffles). 
IX. Volunteer Services Coordinator (VSC) 
A.Position: The Board shall appoint a resident volunteer to a 2-year term for 
the purpose of assisting the Select Board and Town Manager’s stewardship 
of Town properties through the coordination of volunteer efforts. 
B.Duties: The V olunteer Services Coordinator will collaborate with the Select 
Board, Town Manager, and department heads to identify projects that will 
improve Town property through volunteer efforts. The VSC will cultivate 
relationships with local businesses, schools, and organizations and solicit 
donations of time, materials, or services from businesses, organizations, and 
people that facilitate the completion of identified projects. The VSC will 
help identify grants the Town is eligible for, whose funding can contribute 
to identified projects. The VSC shall: 
Page  of 67
===PAGE 7===
1.Coordinate volunteer events under the guidance of the Town Manager or 
her designee(s) 
2.Utilize social and digital media platforms to solicit volunteers or market 
volunteer events 
3.Ensure that donations are made without an expectation of favor. 
4.Maintain records of her activities that inventory donations received each 
fiscal year, including donations of time. 
5.Maintain a photo library of volunteer events and activities. 
6.Provide quarterly updates to the Select Board that detail coordinated 
activities 
Page  of 77