===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Schools:  
The Early Learning Center Program Handbook 2024/2025  
The Lunenburg Public Schools offers an Early Learning Center program for families living in the 
Town of Lunenburg. Children are required to be toilet trained to attend. This program is different 
and separate from The Lunenburg Primary School Preschool program. This handbook outlines the 
services to assist you in determining if the program meets the needs of your family. 
  
.                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Rates and fees………………………………………………………2  
Enrollment/Attendance………………………………………….... 2  
Pick-Up and Drop-off Procedures……………………………….... 3  
Medications/Health…………………………………………….…. 3  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline……………………………………..3  
Early Learning Center………………………………………………4  
  Hours of Operation.….…….……………………………………..... 4/5  
            Early Release & Full PD Days  
            Closures  
            Inclement Weather  
            Vacations  
           Daily Activities….……………………………………………………5  
          Sign off on handbook………………………………………………….6 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
The Early Learning Center Program is a self-sustaining program, and all fees collected are allocated 
to program costs. The session rate for The Early Learning Center services is established by the 
School Committee on an annual basis.  
Call (978)582 4100 ext 5220 or 5221, or email pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net  
visit our website http://www.lunenburgschools.net/extended-daycare-program for current 
rates. You can also contact Annette Queen at  aqueen@lunenburgschools.net . Please see 
cover letter for the 24/25 rates. 
Families will be billed monthly. The bill is based upon a session rate and lunch block if 
attended.  
Parents will be billed according to the set scheduled sessions that your child is signed up for, 
regardless if your child attended.  
Statements are distributed mid month and payments are due on the 1st of the following month. If 
the 1st falls on a weekend, payment will be due on the next school day. Payment is expected on the 
due date unless prior arrangements are made. Please speak to the Program Director if you are having 
difficulty paying your bill on time. Carrying an outstanding balance could result in your child being 
removed from the program. Checks should be made to Town of Lunenburg or thru our bill 
payment system RevTrak  
Registration forms and emergency contact information must be filled out every year in advance 
for each child attending the program. These are specific forms for The Early Learning Center 
Program and separate from any forms filled out for the school administration.  
Please Include the following to complete your registration:  
*Registration form and a $25 non-refundable deposit (deducted from 1st month’s bill) 
*Three forms of current residency-ex: current license, utility bill, mortgage, bank 
statement or   rental agreement with name and address on them.  
*Immunization record  
Please see the Extended Day Handbook for additional information.  
PLEASE NOTE  
We require a schedule of attendance to be provided for each child so that we can ensure 
appropriate levels of supervision. Registrations will be available May 20, 2024. It is the 
parents’ responsibility to notify the school and The Early Learning Center of their 
child’s schedule. Your child may attend both the Early Learning Center and the Primary 
School Preschool if needed, paying the tuition for both programs.   
A schedule of registration notices and deadlines will be issued through school publications and 
websites.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Pick-up and Drop-off Procedures  
It is required that adults must sign-in/sign-out their child both in the morning and the afternoon. 
This is for you r child’s safety. Your child will only be released to those individuals listed on the 
registration form. You must notify staff in writing or verbally if someone that is not on the list is 
coming to pick up your child, or we will not release him/her.  
Medications/ Health  
No medications will be dispensed at The Early Learning Center other than those 
designated as emergency medications (i.e., Epi -pens, inhalers). Staff are trained in 
first-aid, Epi-pen, CPR and AED Defibrillator.  *The parent/guardian of any child on 
an inhaler or epi-pen should talk to the Early Learning Center Director or Coordinator 
and establish a written health plan for the time the child is enrolled in the Early 
Learning Center program.  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline  
Behavior and discipline standards at the Early Learning Center are consistent with those of the 
school district. Students are expected to conduct themselves according to the standards set forth in 
their student handbook. Please refer to the current handbook for a fully detailed explanation.  
∙    All members of the Early Learning Center program are expected to treat each other 
with courtesy and respect at all times.  
∙    Students will show respect for school property/the property of others 
 ∙   Bullying is absolutely not tolerated.  
∙    Through both environmental and instructional structure, we strive to foster positive behavior 
and self -management in students, greatly reducing the need to ‘discipline’ or correct 
behaviors.  
∙   Children may be given a verbal reminder to correct inappropriate conduct. If the behavior 
continues, the child will be asked to separate from the situation for a brief period of time in 
order to collect themselves and may reenter the activity once they are  able to choose 
appropriate behavior.  
∙    If a child continues to be unable to manage themselves, then a parent will be notified. ∙ 
  
If behavior continues or is detrimental to the program or other students, then 
administrative intervention will be sought up to and including removal from the 
program.  
PLEASE NOTE: If your child is also enrolled in the Lunenburg Primary Preschool, privacy 
issues limit the school administration from sharing behavior/education plans with The Early 
Learning Center staff without the written consent of the parent. Please do not assume that we have 
access to this kind of information.  
If there is information that would be helpful in providing the best possible care for your child, 
please speak to the program director/coordinator to share any pertinent information.  
===PAGE 4===
Early Learning Center  
The classroom for the Early Learning Center program has been designed with areas for 
developmental growth, such as: housekeeping, block building, reading, listening center, and 
science, along with an art area, reinforcing necessary skills for social, emoti onal, cognitive and 
physical growth. During the regular school hours from 9:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. children attending the 
program will have a structured day, reinforcing necessary skills that are introduced in the preschool 
and kindergarten classrooms, for e xample: name writing, color/shape identification, alphabet 
identification, cutting skills, etc. The skills will be taught in a fun learning environment, whether it 
is during a theme-related week (i.e., jungle unit or community helpers) or a circle time act ivity of 
“what’s missing” or just practicing letter formation on a table top of shaving cream. The children 
will also have plenty of time for free exploration of the classroom.  
During the school day program, we strive for a staff-to-student ratio of 1:6 plus an 
additional adult due to the academic portion of the program.  
For more information, please see our website or contact the program Director pmccarthy-
guillette@lunenburgschools.net or Assistant Director aqueen@lunenburgschools.net 
Hours of Operation:  
Early Learning Center  
Morning session: 9:00am to 11:30 a.m.  
Lunch Block 11:30-12:00(if attended), Packed lunch from home. Please refrain from nut products. 
Afternoon session: 12:00 to 2:30 p.m.  
Full day option from 9:00-2:30  
Early Release Days  
The Early Learning Center session will end at 11:30, when the district has an early release day.  
September 27th 
November 27th 
January 10th 
March 28th 
April 11th 
June 12th 
 
 
Closed  
Full Day Professional Development days for the district and the following holidays: 
August 30th-Labor Day Break 
September 2nd-Labor Day  
October 14th-Columbus Day  
 November 5th-Professional Development  
 November 11th-Veterans Day  
===PAGE 5===
 November 28th & 29th-Thanksgiving Break  
 December-Winter Break Dec. 23rd thru Jan. 1st-New Year’s Day 
 January 20th-Martin Luther King Day  
 March 14th-Professional Development 
 May 26th-Memorial Day  
 June 19th-Juneteenth 
 
Vacations  
The Early Learning Center will be closed on the December, February, and April break in 
accordance with the school District. You will not be billed for these days or holidays. 
PLEASE NOTE:  
The Early Learning Center closes the Friday before the last day of school and will begin 
one week after the District start date. ELC will start September 3rd, 2024 
Inclement Weather  
The Early Learning Center will be closed on weather emergency days. For delayed openings, The 
Early Learning Center a.m. session will be canceled. You will not be billed for these days or 
holidays.  
Daily Activities  
  A.M. Arrival (9:00 am) 
Free choice of play, games and arts  
Morning Meeting/Circle Time  
Greet our Friends  
Introduce what our day will look like  
Themed related arts/crafts  
Indoor/outdoor activities  
Snacks  
P.M. Repeat Arrival (12:00) 
 
 
 
Outdoor activities  
Students enrolled in the Early Learning Center program will go outside. Please be sure that 
children are properly dressed each day for outdoor recess and clothes are labeled.  
Snacks  
Children must provide their own snack at the Early Learning Center. This is in accordance with 
the school’s policy on snacks due to the number of children with food allergies. Please refrain 
from sending foods containing nuts. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Non Discrimination Statement  
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discriminate in its programs, facilities or employment or educational 
opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, ethnicity, age, disability, 
marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy related 
condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and protective hairstyle and any other characteristic 
or class of individuals protected from discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward 
persons who have reported possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an 
investigation, or who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and 
staff who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or dismissal. 
 