===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS  3000 
 
BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS      3500 
BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS MANAGEMENT    3501 
ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES           3501.01 
Generally 
The School Committee recognizes the critical importance of environmental sustainability in 
today's changing world and is committed to fostering the principles of environmental, economic, 
and social stewardship through the incorporation of sustainable practices throughout the School 
Department. 
Purpose 
The intent of this Policy is to provide a healthful learning/working environment which 
contributes to protecting, conserving, and enhancing the nation's environmental resources while 
providing long-term savings to taxpayers through lower operating costs. 
Sustainability Provisions 
The School Committee will encourage the following sustainability practices throughout the 
School Department: 
● Require that all School Department new construction projects and major 
modernization/renovation projects be designed and constructed to a minimum LEED (Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design) Certified or CHPS. 
● Minimize the amount of School Department waste sent to the landfill where 
economically feasible. 
● Heighten awareness about the importance of environmental sustainability throughout the 
School Department through the curriculum and the promotion of environmental programs and 
initiatives. 
● Continue to promote the use of "Green Seal" certified cleaning products in conjunction 
with environmentally sustainable cleaning practices throughout the School Division. 
● Encourage the use of innovative energy management practices and develop programs that 
monitor and regulate energy consumption. 
● Purchase Energy Star rated appliances and electronics when possible. 
● Continue the no-idle policy for school buses while encouraging the purchase of fuel 
efficient vehicles for all contracted transportation. 
● Continue a Building Maintenance Plan that is committed to addressing indoor 
environmental problems in a proactive manner. 
===PAGE 2===
● Specify, as a minimum, 30% recycled content paper in lieu of standard office paper for 
all purchases as long as this is cost neutral. 
● Incorporate methods to reduce paper consumption and save energy by: electronic filing, 
two-sided copying, web-based conferencing, and the transfer of data via online portals. 
● Promote the use of low impact fertilizers and Integrated Pest Management (IPM). 
 
Approved by School Committee 02-25-15 
===PAGE 3===
 