===PAGE 1===
 
A p r i l  14 , 2 0 2 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title :  Tu rke y H ill Tu rke y Hill ADA Stu d y fo r 
Re no vation  an d Asse ssmen ts and  
Sc he matic  De sign  
Facility:  Tu rke y H ill Ele me ntary Sch oo l  
Location:  129  No rthf ie ld  R oa d , Lun en bu rg , MA  01 462  
 
 
  
 
 
 
P r e p a r e d  F o r : 
Town of Lunenburg Public Schools 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue  
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Phone: 978.582.4115 
 
 
 
 
P r e p a r e d  B y : 
CSS Architects Inc 
107 Audubon Road, Bldg. 2, Suite 300 
Wakefield, MA 01880 
Phone: 781.245.8400 
            
 
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 2===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 2 of 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P A G E  I N T E N T I O N A L L Y  L E F T  B L A N K 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 3===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 3 of 46 
 
Acknowledgements 
The following individuals and firms contributed to the report: 
 
Requesting Agency: 
Town of Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 
 
House Doctor: 
CSS Architects Inc 
107 Audubon Road,  
Bldg. 2, Suite 300 
Wakefield, MA 01880 
 
 
 
Sub-Consultants: 
MEP, FA & FP 
Pristine Engineers, Inc. 
3 School Street 
Taunton, MA 02780 
 
 
 
Cost Estimator: 
PM&C LLC 
20 Downer Ave, Suite 5 
Hingham, MA 02043 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 4===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 4 of 46 
 
Table of Contents   
 
Section 1 - Study Summary ................................................................................. 5 
Section 2 – Existing Conditions Investigation....................................................... 7 
Section 3 – Existing Conditions Photos .............................................................. 17 
Section 4 – Options and Proposed Solutions ..................................................... 26 
Section 5 – Appendices ..................................................................................... 34 
Appendix A: Reports 
Appendix B: Outline Specification of Scope of Work 
Appendix C: Drawings 
Appendix D: Full Cost Estimate 
  
===PAGE 5===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 5 of 47 
Section 1 – Study Summary  
 
The Town of Lunenburg Public Schools has engaged CSS Architects Inc. for the preparation of 
this study to evaluate the condition of the exterior components of the Turkey Hill Elementary 
School. Understanding these fundamental needs and speciﬁc Owner needs along with providing 
comprehensive designer services will be the focus of CSS Architect’s partnership with the 
Lunenburg Public Schools. Our approach to addressing these and other building system needs 
will begin with a kick-oﬀ meeting. A study schematic design has been included for purposes of 
illustrating the preferred solution(s); demonstrating design criteria, codes and standards 
applicable to the project and for the development of accurate cost estimates. The goal of the 
Study is to assist the Town’s decision-making process with regard to the further improvement of 
aging facilities, and potential future phasing and funding requirements in concert with the 
Town’s Financing Plan. 
 
The following is a summary of the background and existing conditions for the Turkey Hill 
Elementary School, located at 129 Northfield Road, Lunenburg, MA.  
 
The building, constructed in 1967-69, is a one-story structure with a two-story classroom wing, 
gymnasium and locker/shower rooms, cafetorium and library. A complete property condition 
report was performed by The Vertex Companies in 2018 . Refer to Appendix A for a complete 
description of the Site Improvements and Building Structure Assessment. CSS Architects has 
reviewed the report and has noted the following changes and updates to this report based on 
our visit on December 13, 2024.  
 
ROOF 
 
CSS was able to access and gather information on condition and the layout of solar panels and 
equipment. The  low sloped roof was installed in 1994 and  is comprised of either a TPO or PVC 
single ply membrane with roof drains and gutters at the courtyard elevations. The gym roof is a 
pitched roof with EPDM single ply membrane and copper gutters on one side and snow guards. 
There were no reported active leaks or areas of ponding. The solar panel array was installed in 
June 2010. The 15 year agreement with Nexamp expires in August 2025. The school has not 
provided a direction on replacement or renewing a new agreement with Nexamp. 
 
CSS recommends replacing the roof system with single ply membrane PVC roof with vapor 
barrier, R-30 rigid insulation, coverboard and new edge metal, replacement of skylights and 
gutters and downspouts.  
 
Cost: $2,500,000 -2,750,000 
 
WINDOWS AND DOORS: 
 
The windows as noted in Vertex’s report are original to the building. They are steel framed with 
single pane glass. The frames are rusted and the paint has deteriorated. Recently the school had 
engaged Window Film Depot to provide a safety film to the interior and exterior panes of glass. 
The final 2% of film was installed in January 2025. The windows are in poor condition and have 
surpassed their useful life along with being very energy inefficient. 
DRAFT
===PAGE 6===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 6 of 47 
The doors are comprised of pressed metal frames and hollow metal leafs. The doors to 
Cafetorium(13) and Music room(12) have been replaced recently with hollow metal doors and 
frames and appear to be in good condition. The school will be replacing doors No 1, 2, 3, and 10. 
this summer with metal doors and frames. 
 
CSS recommends replacing all windows and storefront systems with thermally broken aluminum 
windows and curtainwall with dual pane intrusion resistant  glazing. Exterior Doors should be 
replaced with metal doors to match the newer doors (#1, 2, 3, & 10) 
 
Cost: $2,000,000 – 2,250,000 
 
ACCESSIBILITY: 
 
CSS reviewed the previous reports from Kessler McKinnis & Assoc from 2006 and Vertex’s report 
from 2018. During CSS’s investigation we noted that some of the non-compliant items have 
been addressed such as the doorknobs have been changed to levers and transaction counter at 
office has been lowered. Drinking fountains and bleachers in gym have been replaced. The two 
main entrance doors will be replaced this summer with compliant entry doors. The following 
items remain non-compliant: 
1. Interior ramp handrails. 
2. Interior ramp to music room and stage -slope and width. 
3. Interior double door clearance width at corridors. 
4. All toilet rooms - no accessible elements.  
5. Door maneuvering clearances at multiple locations. 
6. Interior stair handrails are not continuous. 
7. Classroom sinks and counters. 
8. Teachers dining room sink and counter height. 
9. Vertical lift access ramp at 1st floor. 
10. Egress path at exterior doors. 
The boy’s and girl’s locker rooms are non-compliant but since they are no longer used for that 
purpose they were not included.  If the toilet room off of the gym is used it should be made 
accessible.  See Appendix A for a full report . 
 
CSS recommends compliance with 521 CMR for applicable scope which will be determined by 
the cost of renovations. Assuming full compliance of the building would be required See 
Appendix C. Drawing A1.1 
Cost: $1,000,000-1,250,000 includes items A,C,E in PM&C cost estimate. 
 
HAZMAT 
 
CSS was provided with AHERA report from 2019. and recent testing reports related to the Fire 
Alarm and Security Upgrades and Door Replacement projects.  The AHERA report is scheduled to 
be updated this year. Previous testing has revealed that asbestos was found in the floor tiles and 
mastic, spray on fireproofing  on structural beams above ceilings , pipe insulation , exterior 
window caulking and door caulking at doors No 06, 07, 08. 
Cost: TBD 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 7===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 7 of 47 
ELECTRICAL: 
The existing electrical system is outdated and requires modernization to meet 
current demands and ensure reliable operation. The proposed upgrades are 
designed to enhance capacity, improve safety, and support future expansions.  The 
following Option #2 scope is recommended: 
 
Main Switchboard: 
To enhance system reliability and meet current operational demands, the existing 
square d 1,200a, 120/208v, 3-phase, 4-wire main switch will be replaced with a 
modern 1,200a, 120/208v, 3-phase, 4-wire switchboard, equipped with 16-200a 
circuit breakers. The upgraded switchboard will incorporate state-of-the-art 
equipment to ensure improved safety, efficiency, and monitoring capabilities. 
 
Panelboard Upgrades:  
Thirteen (13) outdated panelboards, ranging from 100a to 200a, will be replaced 
with new units to maintain reliable and efficient power distribution throughout the 
facility. These new panelboards will be configured to support 120/208v, 3-phase, 4-
wire distribution, incorporating molded-case circuit breakers with integral ground 
fault protection for enhanced safety. 
Inspect all distribution equipment and components and repair or replace as 
required. 
Extend rooftop fan conduit for new roof replacement work. 
 
MECHANICAL: 
 
Two (2) gas-fired hot water boilers provide heating and  hot water to the respective baseboard 
radiators,  and cabinet unit ventilator heating. The boilers are over 21 and 23 years old and 
nearing the end of their useful life.   Option #2 is recommended : 
 
Replace equipment that has reached or is reaching the end of its useful life in a similar 
in-kind design (replace boilers with cascading array, replace unit ventilators with FCUs 
and ERV’s, replace air handlers in kind, etc. 
 
Replace all roof top exhaust fans as part of roof replacement. 
 
PLUMBING: 
 
All plumbing fixtures are original to building.  Option #2 is  recommended  to replace all 
fixtures with ADA compliant fixtures and fittings per drawings shown . See Appendix C -
SKA’s. 
Extend all roof vents  and replace all roof drains as part of new roof replacement work. 
Replace domestic water heating and mixing valves. 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 8===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 8 of 47 
MECHANICAL ,ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING 
Total Costs for recommended  Item G, Option #2 for Mechanical, Electrical, Plumbing is 
$7,500,000 -7,750,000. This does not include MEP scope of work already included in 
Items A,B,C,D,and E. 
 
 
FIRE PROTECTION: 
If work exceeds 30%, provide new sprinkler system throughout.  
 
Cost: $2,000,000 - 2,125,000 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 9===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 8 of 46 
Section 2 – Existing Conditions Investigation 
 
The following is a summary of the findings. For an in-depth technical description of the 
background and existing conditions see Appendix E for Report on Property Condition 
Assessment provided by Vertex. Below is CSS’s update on those findings. 
 
ROOF:  
 
The low sloped roof areas as noted in the PCA are single ply membrane. Destructive testing was 
not performed but visual inspection suggests that the roof is a PVC membrane over a 
coverboard over rigid insulation that is mechanically fastened to the metal roof deck at the 
classroom wing. 
The gym roof and  is  sloped  with EPDM , and insulation over roof plank supported with bulb 
tees. It appears in good condition with the exception of a missing gutter on the south side which 
is allowing water to erode the masonry façade and the clerestory concrete windowsill. 
The roof over admin offices, library and  cafetorium wing is low sloped with PVC  and insulation 
over roof plank supported by bulb tees and trusses. It is believed that all roof areas were 
replaced in 1994 ,therefore they are over 30 years old and do not meet the required R value for 
the 2021 IEEC.  
 
WINDOWS AND DOORS:   
 
A recent grant provided funding to have a safety film applied to the existing windows. This work 
has been completed and will provide intrusion resistance to the glass panes. The windows are in 
poor condition and no longer meet the required stretch code and the 2015 IEBC. The window 
caulking has tested positive as asbestos containing material. The doors are original  metal doors 
and frames and are in poor condition. Some door sealants have tested positive for asbestos. In 
the Fall of 2024, a door replacement project was bid out and as result four doors will be 
replaced this summer with new metal doors and frames, card readers and hardware. 
 
ACCESSIBILITY: 
 
In 2006 Kessler McKinnis & Associates provide an accessibility report. The Massachusetts 
Accessibility Code or AAB 521 CMR was updated in 2009. Most of the items in the report are still 
relevant and very few changes have been made since. An updated code is in the draft stages and 
it is not determined when it will take effect but we have reviewed the draft and find little in the 
way of changes. The school has made some improvements which are:  
1. Drinking fountains have been replaced. 
2. The counter at main office has provided a lower counter of compliant height.  
3. The door into cafeteria has been replaced to allow 36” of clearance.  
4. The doorknobs have been replaced with lever handles.  
5. The gym bleachers have been replaced.  
6. The doors at 12 and 13 exits have been replaced and are compliant. 
7. The boy’s and girl’s locker rooms are no longer used for that purpose and mainly used 
for storage. 
DRAFT
===PAGE 10===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 9 of 46 
Modifications will not be required except for the toilet room off of the gym which is still being 
used. The code requires that if improvements exceed 30% of the value of the building the entire 
building needs to meet 521 CMR. The value provided is $9,666,479. Assuming that the 
improvements exceed 30% CSS has provided solutions. Refer to Appendix C Drawings 
 
EXTERIOR FAÇADE: 
 
The masonry façade is in good condition. The items mentioned in Vertex’s report still need to be 
addressed.  The concrete windowsills need repair which should be addressed during window 
replacement. All building sealants were in poor condition and should be tested for ACM’s. 
 
ASBESTOS CONTAINING  MATERIALS (ACM):  
 
CSS was provided with an AHERA report from 2019. Discussion with the environmental 
consultant Fuss & O’Neill indicated that they are scheduled to provide an update to this report 
shortly. It was indicated that the spray on fireproofing at steel beams along corridor was abated 
and is no longer present but this has not been confirmed. This would not present an issue with 
the majority of renovations except if any fire protection or mechanical work above the ceilings 
would encounter the spray on fireproofing. The windows and some doors would require 
abatement if replaced. Areas of ACM floor tiles could also be impacted during interior 
renovations. 
 
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: 
 
The fire alarm system is currently being upgraded by the contractor to include voice evacuation 
capabilities, significantly enhancing safety and compliance. To further future-proof the system, it 
is recommended to integrate control modules that support tamper and flow switches for 
potential future fire protection systems. This approach will improve the system’s monitoring 
capabilities and scalability for additional fire safety features. 
 
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM:   
 
The existing electrical system appears to be original, consisting of a Square D 1,200A main 
switch and switchboard with fourteen (14) 100A-200A circuit breakers that distribute power to 
panelboards throughout the facility. 
 
Key Issues: 
• Limited Capacity: The existing system lacks spare capacity for future upgrades. 
• End-of-Life Condition: The switchboard and associated components have reached their 
end-of-life status. 
• Emergency Power: A 200A automatic transfer switch and a 40kW emergency generator 
supply power to emergency panelboards, supporting lighting, fire alarm systems, and critical 
equipment. 
Panelboards: 
The 13 existing panelboards (100A-200A) that supply receptacles, lighting, and equipment are 
outdated and require replacement due to their age and deteriorating condition. 
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 11===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 10 of 46 
Transformers and Power Delivery: 
Power is supplied to the facility via underground feeders from a pad-mounted transformer 
located outside the building. 
 
Main Switchgear: 
The main electrical service switchgear is located on the mezzanine level above the Boiler Room, 
providing 1,200A at 208/120V, 3-phase, 4-wire AC. This switchgear, manufactured by Square D, 
is reportedly original to the building. 
 
A photovoltaic (PV) solar array, installed in 2010, supplies up to 106kW of electrical power under 
a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). 
 
Although the electrical equipment appears to be in good condition, recent inspections, testing, 
and maintenance have not been conducted. A thermographic inspection and subsequent repairs 
by a qualified electrician are recommended to ensure continued reliable operation. 
 
Generator and Emergency Systems: 
The existing emergency generator is a Generac 50kVA, 40kW unit located adjacent to the Boiler 
Room, providing power to life safety systems, including one boiler and associated hot water 
pumps. The generator, installed in 1998, is maintained weekly and undergoes annual load 
testing. 
 
Replacement of the aging generator is anticipated within the evaluation period.  
 
Lighting System: 
Some exterior and hallway LED fixtures have been installed. However, the majority of the 
lighting systems consist of older, inefficient technologies, including surface-mounted fluorescent 
fixtures and T-8 lamps with electronic ballasts. These outdated fixtures contribute to reduced 
energy performance, making the building a strong candidate for lighting upgrades to improve 
energy efficiency. 
 
Renewable Energy and Sustainability: 
A 100kW solar system is currently installed on-site, significantly contributing to the school’s 
energy efficiency goals. However, the existing contract for the solar system is set to expire soon, 
after which ownership and maintenance will be transferred to the school. 
 
Due to the planned roof replacement, which will require disconnecting and removing the solar 
array, it is recommended not to reinstall the solar system after the roof work is completed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 12===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 11 of 46 
MECHANICAL: 
Heating System: 
Two (2) gas-fired hot water boilers provide heating hot water to the building. Information 
regarding each boiler per available nameplate data and discussions with the Site Contact are as 
follows: 
 
• Boiler 1 – Dual fired (natural gas/fuel oil) high efficiency boiler, manufactured by Buderus 
in 2004. 2,309 MBH input / 1,951 MBH output 
• Boiler 2 - Gas-fired condensing boiler, manufactured by Viesmann in 2002. 1,726 MBH 
input / 1,498.6 MBH output. 
• Heating hot water is distributed to the hot water coils via a total of four (4) base-mounted 
hot water pumps located in the Boiler Room each manufactured by TACO and installed 
around the same time as their respective boiler installation in 2002 and 2004.  
• Two (2) pumps are 7.5 horsepower (hp) each. 
• The other two (2) pumps are 3 (hp) each.  
• Each pump is controlled via its respective variable frequency drive (VFD) which was 
reported to have been installed in 2015. 
• Four (4) 375-gallon fuel oil storage tanks are located in the Boiler Room. According to the 
Site Contact, these tanks are not utilized. 
 
Ventilation: 
Mechanical ventilation & hot water heating to the main building was provided by the various 
ventilation heating and ventilation units (HV’s) and associated exhaust fans. 
 
Six (6) H&V Units, plus additional equipment in the main Administrative Building: 
• Ceiling mounted HV-1 Kitchen 4,400 cfm/450.0 MBH; Herman Nelson model #2100 
• Ceiling mounted HV-2 Cafetorium 5,250 cfm/340.0 MBH Herman Nelson model #2125 
• Ceiling mounted HV-3 Boiler Room 6,000 cfm Herman Nelson model #2100 (no heat) 
• Ceiling mounted HV-4 Gymnasium 3,340 cfm/400 MBH Herman Nelson model #2083 
• Ceiling mounted HV-5 Girl’s Lockers 1,650 cfm/107.0 MBH Herman Nelson model #1039 
• Ceiling mounted HV-6 Boy’s Lockers 1,570 cfm/90.0 MBH Herman Nelson model #1029 
• Five (5) Cabinet Unit Heaters (CU-1 thru CU-5). 
• One (1) Trane Convector Unit (H-1). 
• Twenty-one (21) Exhaust fans (EF-X), located throughout the facility. 
• The kitchen was equipped with an exhaust hood with discharge at the roof level through 
a fan powered central duct. The hood was last inspected by Cochrane Ventilation, Inc. in 
August 2017. Passive ventilation was provided by operable windows and natural air 
infiltration. 
 
Heating and ventilation to each of the twenty-nine (29) classrooms & library(x2) are provided 
by thirty-one (31) Classrooms each with a Herman Nelson Unit Ventilator; model #’s 4000 & 
2000. 
Bathrooms were provided with exhaust by powered centrifugal ventilation units mounted on 
the roof. 
Ventilation was supplied to each corridor via operable windows located in the respective area 
(listed below), and exhausted via wall mounted exhaust grilles located within each corridor to 
exhaust fans located on the roof. 
Replace 208’ of baseboard heating. 
DRAFT
===PAGE 13===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 12 of 46 
Control Systems: 
The heating equipment was generally controlled by wall mounted analog thermostats. The 
building utilizes a JAVA web-based operating system. The original building utilized pneumatic 
controls which were reportedly replaced with DDC in 2004 for the Boiler Room equipment only. 
According to the site contact the system allowed for central station manipulation and set-point 
temperatures of the boilers and on-off times of the larger ventilation (AHU). The existing 
radiators, unit ventilators, air handling units and exhaust fans operate via pneumatic controls. 
 
The mechanical systems evaluated include the readily visible components of the heating, 
ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment. The evaluation was intended to be a 
general overview of the component type, equipment capacity, and distribution methods. 
Operational testing of mechanical systems was not conducted. Specific equipment included air 
conditioning and heating units, distribution and ventilation mechanisms, boilers (where 
applicable), and facility controls. 
 
PLUMBING: 
 
Toilet rooms within the building will need to be rebuilt in order to meet ADA requirements.  In 
addition to alterations needed for suitability to ADA requirements, the plumbing fixtures have 
reached the end of their useful life and are not compliant with current efficiency standards.  
Piping within the renovated toilet rooms will need to be re-piped, to serve equipment in its 
relocated arrangements.   
 
As renovations occur and plumbing equipment is isolated, it will become apparent that many of 
the isolation valves located in the piping system will require replacement.  Prior to renovating 
the building, we would recommend that several sample pieces of plumbing piping be removed 
so that wall thickness and surface characteristics can be evaluated.   
 
It is likely that fixtures, solder joints, and certain equipment in the system will not meet current 
lead free standards.  As such, consideration for replacement of all piping even where of 
significant wall thickness should be considered.   
 
Water heaters, mixing valves, and recirculation pumps all carry approximately a 15 year lifespan.  
As such, these pieces have outlived their useful life and should be replaced as part of the 
renovation. 
 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM: 
 
The existing building does not currently have a fire protection system.  It is our belief that a full 
NFPA 13 compliant fire protection system will be required should the renovation exceed 30% of 
the building’s value.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 14===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 13 of 46 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
CSS Architects recommends the following: 
 
ROOF:  
 
Based on the age of roof, all roofing should be replaced with single ply membrane PVC or EPDM 
roof system including new perimeter metal fascias, roof drains, gutters and downspouts. The 
existing solar array is beyond if useful and effective life. It should be removed and a new array 
installed depending on the LPS decision. Existing wired glass skylights should be replaced with 
polycarbonate skylights over the stairwells. 
 
WINDOWS: 
 
Based on our observations we conclude that the existing storefront and classroom windows do 
not meet the new energy code and are beyond repair. 
The existing classroom windows are not thermally broken and do not meet the latest energy 
code for windows requiring a U value of .30 for fixed windows and .32 for operable. We 
recommend replacing them with an aluminum window system with operable vents with a 
thermal break. The large window at the south elevation of classroom wing should be replaced 
with aluminum curtainwall with insulated metal panels and fixed insulated glass. The metal 
storefront at front entry and link corridors should be replaced with a curtain wall with fixed 
glass. The decision to provide operable vents for ventilation at these areas should be decided 
based on security concerns. The metal framed windows at the courtyard should be replaced 
with curtainwall with  fixed glass and operable vents.  Laminated  intrusion resistant glass should 
be installed at lower-level windows . The aggregate panels would remain. The clerestory 
windows at cafetorium wing and gym should be replaced with aluminum fixed windows or 
insulated translucent fiberglass panels, such as Kalwall. Other materials such as fiberglass should 
be considered if the cost of aluminum becomes too costly. 
 
DOORS: 
 
To meet the current energy code, all exterior doors should be replaced with standard hollow 
metal doors and pressed metal frames, galvanized and field painted meeting a U value of .63. 
With the doors, all hardware would also be replaced with secure hardware. The existing security 
system should be retained and reinstalled. Doors that are part of a curtainwall system will have 
aluminum frames at doors 1,2,3, 5,7 and 9. 
 
EXTERIOR FAÇADE: 
 
The precast concrete window sills should be repaired and joints caulked. Exposed rusting rebar 
concrete foundation wall at gymnasium should be repaired. 
 
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: 
 
The building owner is currently undertaking a comprehensive upgrade of the fire alarm system 
to meet modern fire safety standards and code compliance. Additional recommendations 
DRAFT
===PAGE 15===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 14 of 46 
include integrating voice evacuation capabilities and installing monitoring modules for tamper 
and flow switches to accommodate future fire protection enhancements. 
 
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM:   
 
The following Option #2 is recommended: 
 
Main Switchboard and Switchgear Replacement: 
Replace the main switchboard and switchgear with a modern unit that provides additional 
capacity for future expansion (consider increasing by at least 20-30% over current demand). The 
new system should be equipped with advanced protection and monitoring features. 
Option for a modular system that can easily accommodate future expansions or upgrades 
without the need for a complete overhaul. 
Choose a switchboard that meets current National Electrical Code (NEC) standards for safety, 
energy efficiency, and long-term durability. 
 
Panelboards Replacement: 
Replace all 13 panelboards with new models that offer better energy efficiency and advanced 
protection mechanisms (such as arc-fault circuit interrupters (AFCIs), surge protection devices, 
and better fault detection). 
Choose panelboards with more spare breaker slots to allow for future expansions or additional 
circuits. 
Ensure that the new panelboards are designed for ease of maintenance and can be equipped 
with remote monitoring capabilities for efficient management. 
 
Emergency Power System Upgrade: 
Replace the emergency generator with a new, more reliable unit, ideally in the range of 50-
60kW to ensure sufficient power to all emergency systems and life safety systems (lighting, fire 
alarms, critical equipment). 
Choose a generator that complies with the latest emission and efficiency standards. 
Install a new automatic transfer switch (ATS) that is more energy-efficient and has enhanced 
functionality for monitoring and diagnostics. 
Schedule routine maintenance and load testing for the new generator to ensure it performs 
reliably during emergencies. 
 
Transformers and Power Delivery: 
Evaluate transformer capacity and efficiency to ensure it meets current and future demands. If it 
is nearing end-of-life or unable to handle expected future loads, consider upgrading to a higher-
capacity unit. 
Replace aging or inefficient components as necessary to improve system reliability and 
efficiency. 
 
Photovoltaic (PV) Solar System Review: 
The existing contract for the solar system is set to expire soon, after which ownership and 
maintenance will be transferred to the school. 
Due to the planned roof replacement, which will require disconnecting and removing the solar 
array, it is recommended not to reinstall the solar system after the roof work is completed. 
 
Lighting System Upgrade: 
DRAFT
===PAGE 16===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 15 of 46 
Replace all fluorescent lighting with LED fixtures. LED lights use significantly less energy, last 
longer, and require less maintenance. 
Install occupancy sensors and daylight harvesting controls in areas with variable lighting needs 
(hallways, offices, etc.) to optimize energy use. 
Consider a comprehensive lighting audit to identify areas that can benefit from smart lighting 
systems and energy management systems that adjust based on usage patterns. 
 
MECHANICAL: 
 
It is our recommendation that the HVAC systems throughout the building be replaced with 
modern systems throughout to achieve a 20+ year extended lifespan for enhanced performance 
and efficient operation. 
 
Heating System: 
It is our recommendation to replace (2) existing boilers and associated hot water generation 
equipment with (8) new Viesmann 200-W Cascade system natural gas condensing steam boilers 
@ 4,240,000 BTU for B2HA-530. 
 
A new condensate receiver with duplex pump set, boiler feedwater return pump, and 
condensate blowdown separator would be installed. New heat exchangers, expansion tank, air 
separator, and base-mounted pumps would be installed for the hot water portion of the 
building system. 
 
The existing outdoor fuel oil tank adjacent to the school, day tank in the boiler room, and all 
existing fuel oil piping will be removed. Boilers would be provided with double walled stainless-
steel breechings and new steam, condensate, and pumped condensate piping would be 
installed. 
 
Ventilation: 
Boiler Room: A new combustion air louver and motorized damper would be installed, with the 
new associated ductwork directed towards floor level. A new fan-powered combustion air unit 
(interlocked with new boilers) will be connected to the new combustion air louver. The existing 
relief louver in the ceiling would be provided with a new motorized damper.  
 
A new steam unit heater would be installed to provide heat to the boiler room and the incoming 
combustion air. The existing air compressor will be replaced with a new unit and connected to 
the building controls. A galvanized steel intake flue and AL29-4C exhaust flue would be installed 
for the new condensing hot water heater in the boiler room. The new boilers and combustion 
air unit would be provided with new DDC controls. All equipment will be tied back to the 
existing BMS.  
 
New roof-mounted exhaust fans and roof curbs would be installed to replace the existing fans. 
New ductwork, grilles, etc. would be installed for each bathroom. New steam, hot water, and 
electric unit heaters would be installed throughout the building to replace existing unit heaters 
in corridors, vestibules, and bathrooms. Steam-finned tube radiators would be replaced in the 
office spaces adjacent to the main lobby. Wall-mounted split systems would be provided to 
select administration areas that will be active year-round. 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 17===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 16 of 46 
Kitchen: Associated air-cooled condensing units will be mounted on the roof. A new make-up air 
unit would be installed on the roof to provide make-up air to the kitchen area and directly to the 
new kitchen hood. The make-up air unit would also provide heat to the kitchen and adjacent 
kitchen storage room. A new motorized damper would be provided for the existing relief louver 
in the storage room. New thermostats would be provided for all new heating and cooling 
equipment. All new equipment will be tied into the building management system (BMS). 
 
Ventilation & Distribution Equipment: 
Four (4) Heating & Ventilator Units 
• Ceiling mounted HV-1 Kitchen 4,400 cfm/450.0 MBH; Herman Nelson model #2100 
• Ceiling mounted HV-2 Cafetorium 5,250 cfm/340.0 MBH Herman Nelson model #2125 
• Ceiling mounted HV-3 Boiler Room 6,000 cfm Herman Nelson model #2100 (no heat) 
• Ceiling mounted HV-4 Gymnasium 3,340 cfm/400 MBH Herman Nelson model #2083 
 
Additional Equipment: 
• Five (5) Cabinet Unit Heaters (CU-1 thru CU-5). 
• One (1) Trane Convector Unit (H-1).\ 
• The kitchen was equipped with an exhaust hood with discharge at the roof level through 
a fan powered central duct. The hood was last inspected by Cochrane Ventilation, Inc. in 
August 2017. Passive ventilation was provided by operable windows and natural air 
infiltration.  Refurbish kitchen make-up air system supporting equipment. 
 
Two existing (2) existing H&V Units in the lockers area to be abandoned in place.  
• Ceiling mounted HV-5 Girl’s Lockers 1,650 cfm/107.0 MBH Herman Nelson model #1039 
• Ceiling mounted HV-6 Boy’s Lockers 1,570 cfm/90.0 MBH Herman Nelson model #1029 
 
Thirty-one (31) existing unit ventilators in classrooms & library. 
Two (2) existing unit ventilators in PHYS & two (2) existing unit ventilators in SHOP with units of 
like kind. 
Existing hot water piping & distribution system as required for installation of new equipment. 
 
PLUMBING: 
 
It is our recommendation that plumbing fixtures be replaced throughout the renovation to 
current water sense labelled high efficiency lead free fixtures.   
 
It is our recommendation that new electric or natural gas water heaters (depending on if 
funding requires an all-electric building) be installed, with a new electronic mixing valve and 
brass recirculation pump.   
 
Existing sanitary drain piping shall be jetted and visually inspected for dips, channeling, loose 
joints, excessive buildup, and other problematic items.  Areas where problems occur shall be 
noted for replacement.  Existing grease traps and floor drains shall be replaced where floor 
finishes are being changed.  New floor drains shall be provided with trap primers.   
 
Existing domestic water piping shall have sample sections removed and examined/tested for 
lead solder, and well as examined for wall thickness and any internal pitting or porosity.  
Depending on testing results, domestic water piping shall be considered for replacement in its 
entirety.   
DRAFT
===PAGE 18===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 17 of 46 
 
Toilet rooms will likely require a new layout to meet accessibility clearance requirements.  
Piping to new fixture locations will be required, and old piping be removed.  New toilet room 
fixtures (lavatories, water closets, floor drains, and urinals shall be replaced in their entirety.   
 
Miscellaneous plumbing fixtures through the school such as nurses and classroom sinks, drinking 
fountains, utility hose bibs, janitors mop sinks, shall be replaced whereas they are primarily 50 
years old, well over their 15-25 year useful lifespan. 
 
Consideration should be given to replacement of kitchen cafeteria equipment, including high 
efficiency ware washers along with new grease traps and sink faucets. 
 
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM:   
 
It is our recommendation that a fire protection system should be added to the facility.  A fire 
protection system provides both a higher level of life safety protection, but also protects the 
physical investment that the town is looking to make in the property.   
 
The new fire protection system will be in accord with NFPA 13 requirements. 
 
Sprinkler Water Service: 
A new sprinkler application for a 6” water supply line will need to be presented to Lunenberg 
Water District.  Existing town water distribution map shows an 8” service running past the 
school on Northfield Road, and a 6” service on Oak Ave adjacent the school,  Fire Hydrant flow 
and pressure testing would be required to be completed to see if these services would be 
adequate to support a fire protection system serving the school.   
 
In the likely case that a municipal water source was insufficient in supporting the system, a 
water storage tank would be required on the property.  Storage tank sizing for the 67,000 ft 
property would be based upon NFPA 14 requirements for  light hazard system requirement of 
.10 GPM/ft2 for 30 minutes plus a 100 gpm indoor hose stream allowance.  This tanks minimum 
sizing would likely be 10,000 gallons, but could be potentially far greater.   
 
A fire pump in accord with NFPA 20 would be required to pump fire fighting water from the 
water storage tank to the building system.  This pump would likely be located in a pump house 
above the buried water storage tank, with approx.. 8” piping from the pump to the building.  
Pressure maintaining jockey pump would also be located in the pump house, along with the fire 
pump controller.   The fire tank will rely on an automatic fill mechanism from municipal water 
supply to maintain tank level.    
 
Sprinkler System: 
Once water service piping of appropriate pressure and flow characteristics are brought to the 
inside of the building, a standard wet sprinkler system with a combination of ordinary hazard 
and light hazard coverage will be implemented.   
 
In the general area of water service entry, a new 6” backflow prevention device would be 
installed with a pair of alarm check valves piped in parallel.  A pair of Siamese FDIC (fire 
department inlet connections) would be piped in 4” to the area of the buildings where the fire 
truck would approach in case of emergency.   
DRAFT
===PAGE 19===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 18 of 46 
 
Because the area of the building exceeds 52,000 ft2, service would be fed from two wet alarm 
valves, one serving each wing of the building.  Each floor of each building would have its own 
separately monitored FCVA (Floor Control Valve Assembly), which would be monitored by the 
fire alarm system serving the building for activation.  The piping from the alarm valves at the 
service entry would likely be 6” to each of the wings.  Piping from the FCVA’s would be routed in 
corridors through 4” cross mains, with hydraulically sized branch piping from the cross mains to 
the individual sprinkler heads.   
 
Most areas of the building such as classrooms, corridors, toilet rooms, gymnasium, and offices 
would have sprinkler coverage installed in accord with light hazard requirements (.1 GPM per ft2 
density), with some areas such as the mechanical room, storage rooms, and library receiving 
ordinary hazard coverage .15 gpm per 1ft2).   
 
Sprinkler piping would be run above existing ceilings where they exist, and exposed where 
ceilings are open to deck.  Any above ceiling areas with combustible construction above would 
also require sprinkler coverage.   
 
Sprinkler piping would be a combination of ductile iron and cast iron, connected with 
mechanical groove style couplers for pipe 2” or larger, and threaded for piping 1-1/2” and 
smaller.    Hangers would be steel.   
 
Piping over 3” shall be Schule 10, piping under 3” shall be schedule 40.   
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 20===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design  
 
Page 19 of 46 
 
 
 
Section 3 – Existing Conditions Photos 
 
  
  
1 Corridor ramp and steel framed 
window well 2 Window wall at classroom wing, south elevation 
 
  
  
3 Rebar exposed at gym 4 Clerestory windows at gym 
DRAFT
===PAGE 21===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 20 of 46 
 
 
  
  
5 Roof at administrative offices and entry canopy 6 Gym roof 
 
    
7 Skylight over stairway 8 Roof drain clogged with debris 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 22===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 21 of 46 
  
  
9 Drinking fountain at first floor 10 Unisex toilet – not accessible 
 
    
11  Unisex toilet – not accessible 12 Cafeteria toilet/lockers – not accessible 
 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 23===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 22 of 46 
  
  
13 Library office with sink/counter – non-compliant 14 Library entrance – non-compliant 
 
    
15 Courtyard- non compliant surface material 16 Courtyard – non-compliant threshold and 
surface 
 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 24===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 23 of 46 
  
  
17 Main desk at office – door clearance not 
compliant 18 Staff restroom maneuvering clearance 
 
    
19 Staff bathroom – WC not compliant 
Sink and mirror too high; plumbing needs to be 
insulated 
20 Vertical lift – non-compliant ramp 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 25===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 24 of 46 
 
 
  
21 Non-compliant sink/counter in faculty room 22 Corridor and non-compliant door at stairway 
propped open 
 
  
  
23 Typical classroom door 24 Door 09 non compliant egress path 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 26===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 25 of 46 
  
  
25 Stair handrail not continuous 26 Clerestory windows at cafeteria 
 
    
27 Large window and panel wall at south 
elevation 28 Gym window with wired glass 
 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 27===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 26 of 46 
  
  
29 Door 7 – non-compliant egress path 30 Typical steel classroom windows 
 
  
  
31 Steel windows at corridor link 32 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 28===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 27 of 46 
 
   
33 Gas Burner Weishaupt G31-E ZMD-LN 34 
 
  
  
35 Electric Motors ABB Super-E pump 1  36 Pump 2 
DRAFT
===PAGE 29===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 28 of 46 
 
 
 
  
38 HVAC #1 Quincy Climate Control QC00503S  
 
  
37 HVAC Electric Pump Baldor Super-E 
3K3211T-8  
DRAFT
===PAGE 30===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 29 of 46 
 
  
39 General Safety Switch for pumps and HWP 
Zone  
 
 
 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 31===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 30 of 46 
Section 4 – Options and Solutions 
 
ROOF AND SKYLIGHTS (high priority) 
 
OPTION 1: Provide infrared scan to determine extent of wet insulation. If less than 30%  then the 
roof can be recoated with cold fluid applied polyurethane roofing system with 10 year warranty. 
Remove solar array. Advantages: Least costly, flashings, edge metal, equipment and curbs do not 
have to be removed.  Disadvantages: not an Option if solar panels would be installed. Ten year 
warranty. R value stays the same. 
 
OPTION 2: Remove solar array (and electrical conduit and associated equipment if panels are not 
being replaced).  Remove existing PVC roof system  and EPDM at Gym down to roof deck. Provide 
new rigid insulation at thickness to achieve a value of R- 30. (approximately 5”) Provide new ½” 
cover board, PVC roof membrane and flashings. Remove existing skylights and replace with new 
plastic high impact glazed skylights to fit existing curbs. 
Advantages: Will provide a 20-25 year warranty and increased energy savings. Disadvantages: Most 
costly 
 
OPTION 3: Same as above except provide built up cold applied bituminous roofing w/ aggregate 
surfacing. Advantages: Greater resilience to vandalism or damage , safer to walk on in wet 
conditions  and longer life. Disadvantages: More costly than option 2 
 
WINDOWS (high priority) 
 
OPTION 1: Remove all exterior windows ,storefront and clerestory windows and provide new 
thermally broken aluminum projected/fixed windows and curtainwall to meet U factor of .32 or 
better or to meet latest IECC requirements. Advantages: More energy efficient and provides 20 
year warranty, no maintenance. Disadvantages: Higher cost 
 
OPTION 2: 
Remove all exterior windows ,storefront and clerestory windows and provide new thermally broken 
fiberglass projected/fixed windows and  aluminum curtainwall to meet U factor of .32 or better or to 
meet latest IECC requirements. Advantages: Most energy efficient and provides 20 year warranty, 
no maintenance. Lower cost than Option 1.  Disadvantages: Limitations on height means 
aluminum needs be used at tall window openings as in Option 1. 
 
ACCESSIBILITY 
 
Option 1:  
If cost of work performed exceeds $100,000 but is less than $500,000 for scope of work that 
involves exempted work being roof or window replacement or MEP systems then accessibility 
upgrades to entry and toilets are not required. 
 
Option 2:  
If cost of work performed exceeds $500,000 including exempted work then an accessible entry, one 
unisex toilet and drinking fountain need to be provided. 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 32===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 31 of 46 
Option 3:  
If the work performed including exempted work exceeds 30% of the full and fair cash value of the 
building then the entire building is required to comply with 521 CMR. 
 
CSS has provided solutions and scope of work to comply with Option 3 assuming that the 
recommended options are selected and will exceed the 30% rule. Refer to Appendix C Drawings. 
 
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM 
 
The building owner is currently undertaking a comprehensive upgrade of the fire alarm system to 
meet modern fire safety standards and code compliance. Additional recommendations include 
integrating voice evacuation capabilities and installing monitoring modules for tamper and flow 
switches to accommodate future fire protection enhancements. 
 
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM 
 
The existing electrical system is outdated and requires modernization to meet current demands and 
ensure reliable operation. The proposed options are designed to enhance capacity, improve safety, 
and support future expansions.  
 
Option #1 - ADA & Building Upgrades Only:   
 
To enhance system reliability and meet operational demands, the existing Square D 1,200A, 
120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire main switch will be replaced with a modern 1,200A, 120/208V, 3-phase, 
4-wire switchboard, equipped with 20 – 200A circuit breakers. The upgraded switchboard will 
incorporate state-of-the-art equipment to ensure improved safety, efficiency, and monitoring 
capabilities. 
 
Panelboard Upgrades: 
Thirteen (13) outdated panelboards, ranging from 100A to 200A, will be replaced with new units to 
maintain reliable and efficient power distribution throughout the facility. These new panelboards 
will be configured to support 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire distribution, incorporating molded-case 
circuit breakers with integral ground fault protection for enhanced safety. 
 
As part of the roof replacement, extend conduit & cable and provide power for twenty-one existing 
(21) Exhaust fans (EF-X) located on the roof of each building. 
 
Advantages: Least costly and disruptive. Replacement of main switch and panelboard will ensure 
continuous operation since parts might not be available for existing system. Disadvantages:  Older 
equipment would not be replaced. 
 
Option #2 –Electrical System Upgrade to support HVAC hot water upgrade & Selective Cooling: 
To enhance system reliability and meet future all-electric operational demands, the existing Square 
D 1,200A, 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire main switch will be replaced with a modern 1,600A, 120/208V, 
3-phase, 4-wire switchboard, equipped with 20 – 200A circuit breakers. The upgraded switchboard 
will incorporate state-of-the-art equipment to ensure improved safety, efficiency, and monitoring 
capabilities. 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 33===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 32 of 46 
 
Panelboard Upgrades: 
Thirteen (13) outdated panelboards, ranging from 100A to 200A, will be replaced with new units to 
maintain reliable and efficient power distribution throughout the facility. These new panelboards 
will be configured to support 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire distribution, incorporating molded-case 
circuit breakers with integral ground fault protection for enhanced safety. 
 
Emergency Power System Upgrades: 
To meet updated standards and ensure reliable backup power, the existing automatic transfer 
switch (ATS) will be upgraded to a 400A, 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire unit. Additionally, a new 100 
kW, 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire diesel emergency generator would be installed. The generator will 
feature a weatherproof, sound-attenuated enclosure and a double-wall, 24-hour fuel tank for 
extended runtime and environmental safety. This will significantly improve backup power system 
performance and meet NFPA 110 standards for life safety systems. 
 
Receptacle Upgrades: 
To enhance safety and convenience, all existing receptacles will be replaced with commercial-grade, 
20A, 120V duplex outlets. Approximately four (4) receptacles would be installed per room, with 
additional receptacles spaced every 50 feet in corridors. Surge-protected outlets will be utilized in 
areas with sensitive electronic equipment to ensure consistent power quality. 
 
Lighting System Improvements: 
The existing lighting system will be modernized to improve energy efficiency and lighting quality. 
Approximately 660 outdated lighting fixtures throughout the 66,000-square-foot building will be 
replaced with energy-efficient LED luminaires, each providing 4,000 lumens and featuring a color 
temperature of 4,000K (neutral white). The fixtures will deliver at least 80-90 lumens per watt for 
optimal performance and reduced energy consumption. 
 
Lighting Control Upgrades: 
All existing lighting switches will be replaced with low-voltage switches integrated into the lighting 
control system, with one switch per room. Advanced control features will include daylight 
harvesting and occupancy sensors to optimize energy savings by automatically adjusting lighting 
levels based on occupancy and available natural light. 
 
Space Optimization: 
To support the installation of the new electrical infrastructure, it is recommended to redesign 
specific areas, such as the room directly across from the mechanical room. This space will be 
configured to house the new switchboard, automatic transfer switch, and fire alarm system 
components, providing adequate clearance for maintenance and future upgrades. The layout will 
prioritize safety, accessibility, and optimal equipment arrangement. 
 
Advantages: All electrical systems will be replaced to provide 20 plus years of reliable and energy 
efficiency. Disadvantages: more costly. Building still will be using fossil fuels for heating and 
ventilating.  
 
Option #3 – Full Electrical System Upgrade to support all electric HVAC: 
To enhance system reliability and meet future all-electric operational demands, the existing Square 
D 1,200A, 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire main switch will be replaced with a modern 2,000A, 120/208V, 
3-phase, 4-wire switchboard, equipped with 20 – 400A circuit breakers. The upgraded switchboard 
DRAFT
===PAGE 34===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 33 of 46 
will incorporate state-of-the-art equipment to ensure improved safety, efficiency, and monitoring 
capabilities. 
 
Panelboard Upgrades: 
Thirteen (13) outdated panelboards, ranging from 100A to 200A, will be replaced with new units to 
maintain reliable and efficient power distribution throughout the facility. These new panelboards 
will be configured to support 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire distribution, incorporating molded-case 
circuit breakers with integral ground fault protection for enhanced safety. 
 
Emergency Power System Upgrades: 
To meet updated standards and ensure reliable backup power, the existing automatic transfer 
switch (ATS) will be upgraded to a 400A, 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire unit. Additionally, a new 100 
kW, 120/208V, 3-phase, 4-wire diesel emergency generator would be installed. The generator will 
feature a weatherproof, sound-attenuated enclosure and a double-wall, 24-hour fuel tank for 
extended runtime and environmental safety. This will significantly improve backup power system 
performance and meet NFPA 110 standards for life safety systems. 
 
Receptacle Upgrades: 
To enhance safety and convenience, all existing receptacles will be replaced with commercial-grade, 
20A, 120V duplex outlets. Approximately four (4) receptacles would be installed per room, with 
additional receptacles spaced every 50 feet in corridors. Surge-protected outlets will be utilized in 
areas with sensitive electronic equipment to ensure consistent power quality. 
 
 
Lighting System Improvements: 
The existing lighting system will be modernized to improve energy efficiency and lighting quality. 
Approximately 660 outdated lighting fixtures throughout the 66,000-square-foot building will be 
replaced with energy-efficient LED luminaires, each providing 4,000 lumens and featuring a color 
temperature of 4,000K (neutral white). The fixtures will deliver at least 80-90 lumens per watt for 
optimal performance and reduced energy consumption. 
 
Lighting Control Upgrades: 
All existing lighting switches will be replaced with low-voltage switches integrated into the lighting 
control system, with one switch per room. Advanced control features will include daylight 
harvesting and occupancy sensors to optimize energy savings by automatically adjusting lighting 
levels based on occupancy and available natural light. 
Space Optimization: 
To support the installation of the new electrical infrastructure, it is recommended to redesign 
specific areas, such as the room directly across from the mechanical room. This space will be 
configured to house the new switchboard, automatic transfer switch, and fire alarm system 
components, providing adequate clearance for maintenance and future upgrades. The layout will 
prioritize safety, accessibility, and optimal equipment arrangement. 
 
Advantages: State of the art systems to provide maximum energy efficiency. Disadvantages: Most 
costly. Cost for electric use is unknown and could cost more than natural gas. 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 35===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 34 of 46 
 
MECHANICAL  
 
Option 1 - ADA & Building Upgrades Only: 
 
Hot Water Generation Equipment: 
• Repair/refurbish (2) existing boilers and associated hot water generation equipment at the 
Boiler Room.  
 
Ventilation & Distribution Equipment: 
• Repair/refurbish six (6) Heating & Ventilator Units. 
• Repair/refurbish twenty-nine (29) existing unit ventilators in classrooms. 
• Repair/refurbish two (2) existing unit ventilators in PHYS & two (2) existing unit ventilators in 
SHOP with units of like kind. 
• Repair/refurbish twenty-one (21) existing exhaust fans. 
• Repair/replace existing hot water piping & distribution system as required. 
• Replace 150 linear feet of baseboard heating at lobby and link corridors. 
• As part of the roof replacement, extend ductwork & provide new extended curb for twenty-one 
existing (21) Exhaust fans (EF-X) located on the roof of each building.  If found, replace any non-
functioning gravity dampers. 
 
Advantages:  Least costly  Disadvantages: Limited life left for equipment, will require more 
maintenance.  
 
Option 2 - Boiler Replacement/Selective Cooling Addition: 
 
Hot Water Generation Equipment: 
a. Replace (2) existing boilers and associated hot water generation equipment with (8) new 
Viessman 200-W Cascade system natural gas condensing steam boilers @ 4,240,000 BTU for 
B2HA-530.  Boilers would be provided with double walled stainless-steel breechings and new 
steam, condensate, and pumped condensate piping would be installed. 
b. A new condensate receiver with duplex pump set, boiler feedwater return pump, and 
condensate blowdown separator would be installed. New heat exchangers, expansion tank, air 
separator, and base-mounted pumps would be installed for the hot water portion of the 
building system. 
c. The existing outdoor fuel oil tank adjacent to the school, day tank in the boiler room, and all 
existing fuel oil piping will be removed. 
 
Ventilation & Distribution Equipment: 
Boiler Room:  
a. A new combustion air louver and motorized damper would be installed, with the new associated 
ductwork directed towards floor level. A new fan-powered combustion air unit (interlocked with 
new boilers) will be connected to the new combustion air louver. The existing relief louver in the 
ceiling would be provided with a new motorized damper.  
b. A new steam unit heater would be installed to provide heat to the boiler room and the incoming 
combustion air. The existing air compressor will be replaced with a new unit and connected to 
the building controls. A galvanized steel intake flue and AL29-4C exhaust flue would be installed 
for the new condensing hot water heater in the boiler room. 
DRAFT
===PAGE 36===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 35 of 46 
c. The new boilers and combustion air unit would be provided with new DDC controls.  All 
equipment will be tied back to the BMS.  
 
Administrative Offices, Gymnasium and Cafetorium Building: 
a. Twelve (12) new roof-mounted exhaust fans and roof curbs would be installed to replace the 
existing fans. New ductwork, grilles, etc. would be installed for each bathroom. 
b. New steam, hot water, and electric unit heaters would be installed throughout the building to 
replace existing unit heaters in corridors, vestibules, and bathrooms. 
c. Steam-finned tube radiators would be replaced in the office spaces adjacent to the main lobby.  
d. Replace (4) remaining Heating & Ventilator Units with new (4) Energy Recovery Units (ERV’s) 
with hot water reheat coils. 
e. Replace two (2) existing unit ventilators in PHYS & two (2) existing unit ventilators in SHOP with 
units of like kind. 
f. Wall-mounted split systems would be provided to select administration areas that will be active 
year-round, with two (2) new 12-ton roof mounted ACCU’s for new split AC systems. 
g. Kitchen: A new make-up air unit will replace the existing to provide make-up air to the kitchen 
area and directly to the new kitchen hood. The make-up air unit would also provide heat to the 
kitchen and adjacent kitchen storage room. A new motorized damper would be provided for the 
existing relief louver in the storage room.  
 
Classroom Wing: 
a. One (1) new roof mounted ERV with associated supply and return distribution ductwork to each 
classroom. 
b. Replace thirty-one (31) existing unit ventilators in classrooms with thirty (30) new ceiling 
mounted hot water Fan Coil Units and (2) roof top ERV's for ventilation; or an ERV with 
each new FCU. 
c. Remove eight (8) existing exhaust fan to be replaced with in-ceiling ductwork back to ERV. 
d. Replace bathroom exhaust fans with new. 
e. Replace ALL existing hot water piping & distribution system. 
f. Replace ALL steam fin tube radiation baseboard heating. 
 
New thermostats would be provided for all new heating and cooling equipment. All new equipment 
will be tied into a new Building Management System (BMS). 
 
Advantages: Replacement of all equipment will provide reliable and energy efficient service 20 
plus years. Disadvantages: Use of fossil fuels might not be reliable in the future. More costly 
 
Option 3 - Provide new All Electric ERV/VRF systems:  
 
Main Building: 
Approximately Sixty 60-Tons Total Cooling 
• Provide four (4) new Energy Recovery Units (ERV’s) with electric reheat coils, where shown. 
• Provide six (6) new 12-ton Air-Cooled Condensing Units (ACCU’s) located on the roof, to be 
determined in design 
• New kitchen system as from option 2. 
• Provide branch boxes & additional supporting equipment and components as required during 
design to support the multiple VRF systems throughout the building. 
• Provide new condensate drain piping system, to be determined in design. 
DRAFT
===PAGE 37===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 36 of 46 
• Remaining office and support areas will required additional VRF split systems, size, quantity and 
location to be determined in design. 
 
Classroom Wing, Levels 1 & 2: 
Approximately Two hundred sixteen 216-tons Total Cooling. 
• Twenty-nine (29) Classrooms & library(x2), each estimated at: 
• Approx. 80-200 MBH heating 
• Approx. 4-6 Tons cooling each classroom 
• Approx. 500 cfm outside air each classroom 
• Occupancy approx. 30 people/classroom (tbd) 
• Provide two (2) new ERV’s to support the Classroom Wing, levels 1 & 2. 
• Replace thirty-one (31) existing unit ventilators in classrooms & library with new VRF 
concealed/ducted indoor units. 
• Provide eighteen (18) new 12-ton Air-Cooled Condensing Units (ACCU’s) located on the roof of 
the Classroom Wing, to be determined in design. 
• Provide branch boxes & additional supporting equipment and components as required during 
design to support the multiple VRF systems throughout the building. 
• Provide new condensate drain piping system, to be determined in design. 
 
Keep existing hot water boiler system in place, utilizing existing baseboard to provide supplemental 
heating throughout the building until such time when the existing gas fueled has failed and it is 
determined that it is not required for supplemental heating.  
 
Advantages: Most energy efficient system  Disadvantages: Most costly. Cost of electrical 
compared to natural gas has not been determined. 
 
FIRE PROTECTION  
 
Option #1 - ADA & Building Upgrades Only: 
If the work exceeds 30%, provide New Code Compliant NFPA 13 based Fire Protection System 
throughout the two buildings with new municipal water source if available or water storage system 
if not.   
  
Option #2 – Electrical and Mechanical Op.2 & Op.3 Upgrades Only: 
If the work exceeds 30%, provide New Code Compliant NFPA 13 based Fire Protection System 
throughout the two buildings with new municipal water source if available or water storage system 
if not.   
 
Option #3 – Variance or Exemption: 
Exceed threshold of 30% of buildings value and pursue a variance or continued exemption from 
Building Inspection Department and Fire Department.  Depending on how building is insured, this 
approach may also require coordination with building insurance.   
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 38===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 37 of 46 
 
PLUMBING  
 
Option #1 – ADA & Building Upgrades Only: 
Provide only plumbing upgrades as required to meet accessibility requirements of the project.    
Provide re-piping of domestic water and sanitary waste systems, along with new plumbing fixtures 
as required to reconfigure main toilet rooms to meet ADA requirements.   
 
Advantages: Least costly, Energy efficient fixtures. Disadvantages:  Existing piping infrastructure 
remains and might have problems in the future. 
 
Option #2 – Electrical & Mechanical Upgrades with Domestic Water System Enhancements:   
Replace plumbing water heaters, mixing valves, and recirculation system that has exceeded its 
useful life in mechanical room.  Replace valves and trim that has exceeded its useful lifespan.  
Replace toilet room fixtures throughout facility with water saving fixtures, replace domestic water 
piping or sanitary drain piping where worn or deficient. 
 
Advantages: Provides 20 plus years continued use. Disadvantages: More costly  
 
Option #3 – Electrical & Mechanical Op.2 & Op.3 Upgrades with Domestic Water Systems Full 
Replacement: 
Items included in option #2, but add replace plumbing domestic water piping throughout, add 
replacement of commercial kitchen fixtures, grease traps, and other kitchen equipment.   
 
Advantages: Provides 20 plus years continued use. Disadvantages: Most costly  
 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 39===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 39 of 46 
 
Section 5 – Appendices  
 
 
 
Appendix A: Reports 
Appendix B: Outline Specifications 
Appendix C: Drawings 
Appendix D: Full Cost Estimate  
===PAGE 40===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 40 of 46 
Appendix A : Reports  
 
 
Property Conditions Assessment prepared by The Vertex Companies, March 
9,2018 
 
AHERA Report 2019 prepared by ATC  
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 41===
DRAFT
===PAGE 42===
DRAFT
===PAGE 43===
DRAFT
===PAGE 44===
DRAFT
===PAGE 45===
DRAFT
===PAGE 46===
DRAFT
===PAGE 47===
DRAFT
===PAGE 48===
DRAFT
===PAGE 49===
DRAFT
===PAGE 50===
DRAFT
===PAGE 51===
DRAFT
===PAGE 52===
DRAFT
===PAGE 53===
DRAFT
===PAGE 54===
DRAFT
===PAGE 55===
DRAFT
===PAGE 56===
DRAFT
===PAGE 57===
DRAFT
===PAGE 58===
DRAFT
===PAGE 59===
DRAFT
===PAGE 60===
DRAFT
===PAGE 61===
DRAFT
===PAGE 62===
DRAFT
===PAGE 63===
DRAFT
===PAGE 64===
DRAFT
===PAGE 65===
DRAFT
===PAGE 66===
DRAFT
===PAGE 67===
DRAFT
===PAGE 68===
DRAFT
===PAGE 69===
DRAFT
===PAGE 70===
DRAFT
===PAGE 71===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 41 of 46 
Appendix B: Outline Specification for the Scope of Work: 
 
DIVISION 02 EXISTING CONDITIONS/SITE CONSTRUCTION 
02 41 19  Selective Demolition - Removal and disposal of interior construction, ACT ceilings, light 
fixtures, plumbing fixtures, toilet partitions, interior doors and frames, lockers, bituminous 
paving where disturbed by exterior door replacement. 
02 65 00  Removal and disposal of existing oil storage tank. 
02 82 00 Asbestos Abatement- Removal of windows, exterior doors and resilient flooring. Removal of 
boilers, breeching, and piping. 
02 83 19 Lead Safe Work Practices- Removal of lead paint containing surfaces. 
 
DIVISION 03 CONCRETE 
03 30 00 Cast In Place Concrete- Housekeeping pads, patching of concrete slabs at toilet rooms 
03 35 00 Concrete Finishing- Finishing of slabs at toilet rooms and new vertical wheelchair lift, if 
required. 
DIVISION 04 MASONRY 
04 01 00 Masonry Restoration - Repair and repointing of existing masonry facade.   
 
DIVISION 05 METALS 
05 50 00 Metals Fabrication- New steel window lintels and metal handrails. 
 
DIVISION 06 WOOD, PLASTICS, COMPOSITES 
06 10 00 Rough Carpentry - blocking for windows and doors. 
06 20 00 Finish Carpentry - Installation of doors, frames and trim, casework at office. 
 
DIVISION 07 THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION 
07 10 00 Waterproofing, Damp proofing and Caulking (Filed Sub-Bid) - Sealants at windows and 
doors. 
 
DIVISION 08 OPENINGS / DOOR AND WINDOWS 
08 11 00  Hollow Metal Doors and Frames – Exterior door locations where indicated on drawings.  
08 12 00 Pressed Metal Frames – Interior door frames  
08 14 16 Flush Wood Doors – Interior Wood door at toilet rooms, classrooms and office spaces and 
corridors where necessary to comply with 521 CMR Accessibility requirements.  
08 17 43 FRP/Aluminum Hybrid Doors and Aluminum Frames - FRP/Aluminum hybrid doors (B.O.D SL-
20 by Special Lite or approved equal) and aluminum frames at new exterior door locations 
as indicated on the drawings. 
08 41 13 Aluminum-Framed Entrances and Storefront - Door and transom framing at front entry 
08 45 23 Insulated Translucent Fiberglass Sandwich Panel Wall System – for use at clerestory above 
northeast wing; east, and west facades and at the south façade of the Gymnasium wing. 
08 51 56 Aluminum Windows - New aluminum projected and fixed windows at all window openings. 
08 44 13 Aluminum Curtainwall at large openings  
08 70 00 Door Hardware - Hardware for all new doors. 
08 81 00 Glass and Glazing - Glazing for interior doors, sidelights, transoms, and curtainwall. 
08 91 19 Louvers and Vents – as required by upgrades to Mechanical systems.  
DRAFT
===PAGE 72===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 42 of 46 
DIVISION 09 FINISHES 
09 21 16 Gypsum Board Assemblies - New interior partitions at new toilet rooms and new offices. 
09 23 00 Plaster Patching- Interior and exterior ceilings and soffits. 
09 30 13 Ceramic Tiling- Ceramic Tile at toilet room floors and walls. 
09 51 23 Acoustical Ceiling System - New acoustic ceiling system at renovated toilet rooms, hallways, 
offices, lobby as needed. 
09 65 00 Rubber Flooring - Rubber flooring for use at new ramp, stairway and flooring at 
modifications to ramp between Corridor C107 and Music Room 118. 
09 91 00  Painting – Misc. painting and painting of new gypsum wallboard and CMU partitions. 
 
DIVISION 10 SPECIALTIES 
10-14 00 Signage - Room signs within the new work area defined by this project.  Existing signage to 
remain beyond the new work area. 
10 21 13 Toilet Compartments – New toilet partitions girls/boys and men/women toilets. 
10 28 13 Toilet Accessories - Accessories at new toilet rooms. 
 
DIVISION 14 CONVEYING SYSTEMS 
14 42 00 Vertical Wheelchair lift from Corridor C107 to Music Room. 
 
DIVISION 32 EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS 
32 12 16 Repair areas of existing paving disturbed by exterior door replacement and replacement of 
concrete and bituminous paving. 
 
DIVISION 21 FIRE PROTECTION 
21 00 00 General Conditions 
 
DIVISION 22 PLUMBING 
22 00 00 General Conditions 
22 05 17 Sleeves and Sleeve Seals for Plumbing Piping 
22 05 18 Escutcheons for Plumbing Piping 
22 05 29 Hangers and Supports for Plumbing and Piping Equipment 
22 05 33 Heat Tracing for Plumbing Piping 
22 05 53 Identification for Plumbing Piping 
22 07 19 Plumbing Piping Insulation 
22 13 16 Sanitary Waste and Vent Piping 
22 13 19  Sanitary Waste Piping Specialties 
22 14 13 Facility Storm Drainage Piping 
22 14 29 Sump Pump 
 
DIVISION 23 HVAC 
23 00 00 Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning 
23 07 00 HVAC Insulation 
23 31 00 HVAC Ducts and Casings 
23 05 93 Startup, Testing, Adjusting & Balancing for HVAC 
23 09 23 DDC Systems for HVAC 
23 08 00 Commissioning of HVAC 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 73===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 43 of 46 
DIVISION 26 ELECTRICAL & FIRE ALARM 
26 00 01  Electrical Work 
28 31 00 Fire Alarm System 
 
DIVISION 32 EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS 
32 12 16 Repair areas of existing paving disturbed by exterior door replacement with new bituminous 
paving 
 
 
 
 
  
DRAFT
===PAGE 74===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 44 of 46 
Appendix C: Drawings: 
 
DRAWING LIST: 
 
CSS Architects  
 
AE1.1     EXISTING CONDITIONS FIRST & SECOND FLOOR PLANS 
 
AE1.2     EXISTING CONDITIONS FIRST & SECOND FLOOR PLANS & EXISTING GIRL'S LOCKER  
  ROOM PLAN 
 
A1.1       NEW CONSTRUCTION FIRST & SECOND FLOOR PLANS 
 
A1.2       NEW CONSTRUCTION ROOF PLAN & ROOF & CONSTRUCTION DETAILS 
 
A2.0       WINDOW TYPES, DOOR TYPES, & DOOR FRAME TYPES 
               
  SKA - 1    MUSIC ROOM OPTION 1 VERTICAL LIFT  
  SKA - 2    MUSIC ROOM OPTION 2 RAMP 
  SKA - 3    TOILETS & LOCKER ROOM  AT 1ST FLOOR DEMOLITION FLOOR PLAN  
 
  SKA - 3A  TOILETS AND LOCKER ROOM AT 1ST FLOOR NEW FLOOR PLAN  
 
               SKA - 4    ADMINISTRATION OFFICES DEMOLITION AND NEW FLOOR PLANS 
 
  SKA - 5    BOY’S AND GIRL’S TOILETS DEMOLITION AND NEW FLOOR PLANS  
                   
  SKA - 6    KITCHEN STAFF TOILET ROOM DEMOLITION AND NEW FLOOR PLANS  
 
  MEP DRAWINGS: 
 
MEP1.1 MEP OPTION 1 FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR PLANS 7 GIRL’S LOCKER ROOM 
PLAN  
MEP 1.2 MEP OPTION 1 ROOF PLAN 
 
MEP2.1 MEP OPTION 2 FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR PLANS 7 GIRL’S LOCKER ROOM 
PLAN  
MEP 2.2 MEP OPTION 2 ROOF PLAN 
 
MEP3.1 MEP OPTION 2 FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR PLANS 7 GIRL’S LOCKER ROOM 
PLAN  
MEP 3.2 MEP OPTION 2 ROOF PLAN 
DRAFT
===PAGE 75===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 45 of 46 
 
DRAWINGS PREPARED BY OTHERS FOR REFERENCE 
FIRE ALARM REPLACEMENT  prepared by NV5  
TURKEY HILL & PRIMARY SCHOOL SECURITY SYSTEM UPGRADES AND TURKEY HILL DOOR 
REPLACEMENT  11/13/2024 prepared by NV5 , November 13,2024 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 76===
DRAFT
===PAGE 77===
DRAFT
===PAGE 78===
CLASSROOM
107
UP
UP
UP
UP
A104
ACCESSIBLE
WOMEN'S
TOILET
T103
ACCESSIBLE
MEN'S
TOILET
T104
CLASSROOM
105
CLASSROOM
103
CLASSROOM
101
CLASSROOM
111
FACULTY
DINING
113
CLASSROOM
109
RESOURCE
CENTER
110
TEACHERS
112
CENTRAL
OFFICE
114
LIBRARY
108
STORAGE
S101
STORAGE
S102
CLASSROOM
102
CLASSROOM
104
CLASSROOM
106
A105
A107
A101
LOBBY
A103A106
A109
A101
PRINCIPAL
C112
STORAGE
S101
GYMNASIUM
122 121
PHYS. ED.
SHOWERS
L105
C110
UP
COUNSEL COUNSEL
NCEROOMHEALTH
A108
DN
CORR.
C102
CORR.
C105
CORRIDOR
C103
CORR.
C104
CORR.
C102
VESTIBULE
V102
STORAGE
S108
DN
116
CAFETORIUM
116A
STAGE
118
MUSIC ROOM118B
STOR.
118A
OFFICE
120
BOILER ROOM
S104
CUSTODIAL
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
GIRL'S
STAIRS
STAFF
TOILET
UNISEX
TOILET
GIRL'S
STAIRS
C109
RECEIVING
121
MAINTENANCE
117
ACE
K101
KITCHEN
K103
FOOD
STOR.
K102
OFFICE
119
ACE
K101A
FREEZER
K103A
WAL-IN
REF.
CORRIDOR
C107
K107
ACCESSIBLE
TOILET
1
SKA-3A
2
SKA-5
OFFICE
108A
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
BOYS
TOILET
BOYS
TOILET
T102
UP
1ST FLOOR CORR. - C103
F.F EL. 521' - 6" V.I.F.
4
11
9
5
8
7
14
STORAGE
T108
UNISEX
TOILET
L109
BOY'S
TOILET
S105
JAN.
CLOSET
L108
GIRL'S
TOILET
L107
OFFICE
T109
UNISEX
TOILET
2
SKA-1
2
SKA-2
2
SKA-4
2
SKA-6
15
18 19
27
24
23
25
26
30
3132
29
33
34
17 20
16
22
21
28
3
6
21
1312
10
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 8'-0"
EXISTING DOOR TO
REMAIN
14 - K.1 & 4 K.3 WINDOWS
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 8'-0"
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 8'-0"
PROVIDE NEW
VERTICAL LIFT
COURTYARD
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 8'-0"
PROVIDE NEW
CONCRETE
PATIO AND WALK
15'-0"20'-0"
REINSTALL
EXISTING DOOR
REINSTALL
EXISTING DOOR
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 8'-0"
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 6'-0"
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 8'-0"
6 - K.1 & 4 - K.3 WINDOWS
PROVIDE LEVEL
CONCRETE LANDING
5'-0" x 6'-0"
REINSTALL EXISTING
DOOR IN NEW
CURTAINWALL
9 - K.1 WINDOWS6 - K.2 WINDOWS
EXISTING DOORS
TO REMAIN
J
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
AA AA AA
H F
F
D
C
C
C
C
A
B
A
AA AA AA
DN
REMOVE SINKS AND
CABINETS
REMOVE SINKS AND
CABINETS
REMOVE DOOR LEAF
REMOVE DOOR LEAF
REMOVE SINK AND
CABINETS
REMOVE DOOR
AND FRAME
PROVIDE PORTION
OF WALL AND
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE DOOR  AND
FRAME AND INFILL WALL
PROVIDE TWO SETS OF
HANDRAILS AND RAMP. 1
WALL MTD, 1 FLOOR MTD
PROVIDE 1 SET WALL MTD
HANDRAIL @ RAMP
REMOVE DOOR AND
FRAME
PROVIDE NEW
DOORS. NEW GWB
INFILL, EACH SIDE
V101
EXISTING DOOR TO
REMAIN
104A
CLASSROOM
207
CLASSROOM
205
CLASSROOM
203
CLASSROOM
201
CLASSROOM
215
CLASSROOM
213
CLASSROOM
211
CLASSROOM
209
STORAGE
S201
CLASSROOM
202
CORR.
C201
CORR.
C203
CORRIDOR
C202
202A
CLASSROOM
204
CLASSROOM
206
CLASSROOM
208
CLASSROOM
210
CLASSROOM
212
READING
MACHINES
214
LANGUAGE
LAB
216
OFFCE
217
STORAGE
S203
DN
2
SKA-5
CUSTODIAL
S202
DN
2ND FLOOR CORR. - C202
F.F EL. 532' - 5 1/4" V.I.F.
BOYS
TOILET
L202
GIRLS
TOILET
T201
38
3736
35
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
A
AA AA AA AA AA AA AA AA
J
AA
REMOVE DOOR LEAF
REMOVE DOOR LEAF
39
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
L102
OFFICE
C110
GIRLS
STAIRS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
SEE FIRST
FLOOR PLAN
FOR
ROOMS
BELOW THIS
AREA SHOWERS
DN
C112
GIRLS
STAIRS
DN
CALLED NORTH
Scale:
Date: 04/02/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
KMS/RJL
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
1 3
2
NEW CONSTRUCTION
FIRST & SECOND
FLOOR PLANS & GIRL'S
LOCKER ROOM PLAN
A1.1
DL
1/16" = 1' - 0"
 FIRST FLOOR PLAN  GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM PLAN
 SECOND FLOOR PLAN
0 8' 16'32' 4' 0 8' 16'32' 4'
DRAFT
===PAGE 79===
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTRRD
VTR
VTRRD
RD
SLOPE
VTR
RD RD
RDRD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
RDRD
5 11/16"
OPEN
TO COURTYARD
BELOW
OPEN
TO
BELOW
SLOPE
PROVIDE NEW
METAL GUTTER AND
DOWNSPOUTS
PROVIDE NEW
METAL GUTTER
PROVIDE NEW
SNOW GUARD
TYPE 2B
TYPE 3
3
A1.2
3
A1.2
4
A1.2 PROVIDE NEW
METAL GUTTER AND
DOWNSPOUTS
PROVIDE NEW
SNOW GUARD
5
A1.2
5
A1.2
TYP.
TYP.
5
A1.2
TYP.
EXPANSION JOINTS
EXPANSION JOINTS
TYP.
ROOF
TYPE 3
ROOF
TYPE 2A
ROOF
TYPE 2A
ROOF
TYPE 2B
ROOF
TYPE 2B
ROOF
TYPE 2B
ROOF
TYPE 2B
ROOF
TYPE 1
ROOF
TYPE 1
ROOF
TYPE 1
ROOF
TYPE 1
ROOF
TYPE 1
CLASSROOM WING:  TYPE R-1
·EPDM (MECHANICALLY FASTENED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING METAL DECK
GYPNASIUM WING: TYPE R-2A (SLOPED ROOF)
· EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·12" COVERBOARD
·4 12" RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
CAFETORIUM & LOBBY WING (INCL. LINKS):  TYPE R-2B
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
FLAT AREA OF ENTRY CANOPY ROOF:  TYPE R-3
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
NOTE: ROOF STRUCTURE SLOPES TO DRAIN. TAPER
 INSULATION NOT REQUIRED
OPEN
OPEN
R-2B
R-1
R-2AR-2B
R-2B
R-3
NEW CONSTRUCTIONDEMOLITION
REMOVE & DISPOSE OF WD.
TIMBER BLOCKING
REMOVE AND DISPOSE OF
METAL ROOF EDGE FASCIA
MASONRY WALL & CMU
BACKUP TO REMAIN
7 5/8"± V.I.F.
R-2B
PART 1: 8 1/4" ALUM. PRE-FABRICATED FASCIA
SYSTEM W/ ALUM. RETAINER & EXTENSION CLEAT,
SET IN CONT. SEALANT
5/8" PLYWD & 2x8 WD BLOCKING KNEE
WALL, VERT. @ 16" O.C. FILL W/
MINERAL WOOL INSUL.
EPDM ROOF MEMBRANE TO OVERLAP
ALUM. EDGE MTL FASCIA 2" MIN.
PART 2: PRE-FINISHED ALUM. &
CONT. CLEAT
BTM ELEV. OF NEW MTL TO COVER
BTM EDGE OF REMOVED EDGE
METAL BY 1/2" MIN.
BTM ELEV. TO BE CONSISTENT
AROUND CONTIGUOUS PERIMETER
LEVEL BLOCKING @ ROOF EDGE.  SET @ ROOF BD &
INSULATION'S HIGHEST POINT @ ROOF EDGE
REMOVE AND DISPOSE OF
EXIST. INSULATION
EXIST. ROOF PLANK TO
REMAIN
REMOVE & DISPOSE OF
EXIST. T&G ROOFING
REMOVE & DISPOSE OF
EXIST. ROOFING SYSTEM
4 1/ 2"
EXIST. ROOF PLANK TO REMAIN
EPDM ROOFING
MEMBRANE FULLY
ADHERED TO 12"
COVERBOARD
4 12" RIGID INSULATION
DEMOLITION
R-1
REMOVE & DISPOSE
ADJUSTABLE DRAIN CLAMP RING,
STRAINER BASKET AND BOLTS
REMOVE & DISPOSE
MEMBRANE ROOFING
SYSTEM.
METAL DECK
TO REMAIN
ROOF DRAIN PIPING
TO REMAIN
NEW CONSTRUCTION
R-1
8'-0"
8'-0"
1/2" PER FT
TAPERED INSUL.
2" INSUL. AT
DRAIN BODY
DRAIN SUMP PLAN
SCALE: 1 12"=1'-0"
2" VARIES1/2"
1'-0" MIN.
NEW CAST IRON
ADJUSTABLE DRAIN
CLAMP RING, STRAINER
BASKET, AND BOLTS
EPDM MEMBRANE
ROOFING SYSTEM
EXIST ROOF DRAIN
PIPING
EXTEND EPDM
ROOFING MEMBRANE
INTO DRAIN
EXIST. MTL DECK
CONNECT NEW DRAIN
TO EXIST. STORM
WATER PIPE
INSUL. U.S. OF
DRAIN & PIPING
CONT. VAPOR
BARRIER
NEW CONSTRUCTIONDEMOLITION
R-1
8 "
MIN
EPDM MEMBRANE ROOFING SYSTEM
EPDM MEMBRANE FLASHING
EPDM MEMBRANE FLASHING TO GO
UP & OVER CURB
REINSTALL & RECONNECT EXIST. FAN
4 12" RIGID INSULATION
MECHANICALLY FASTENED
TO DECK
12" ROOFING COVERBOARD
RD-1
REMOVE & DISPOSE OF
MEMBRANE ROOFING
SYSTEM.
METAL DUCT TO REMAIN
REMOVE & DISPOSE OF
MEMBRANE FLASHING
EXIST. CURB TO REMAIN
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR TO
DISCONNECT & MAKE SAFE
EQUIPMENT
CONTINUOUS VAPOR BARRIER
EXIST. MTL. DECK
Scale:
Date: 04/02/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
KMS/RJL
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
CALLED NORTH
NEW CONSTRUCTION
ROOF PLAN
AND ROOF DETAILS
A1.2
DL
AS NOTED
CALLED NORTH
1 NEW CONSTRUCTION | ROOF PLAN 2 ROOF TYPES & ROOF TYPE KEY PLAN
5
3  ROOF PLAN EDGE
TYP. PRIMARY ROOF DRAIN W/ INSULATED SUMP
4 EXHAUST FAN FLASHING
DRAFT
===PAGE 80===
DRAFT
===PAGE 81===
117
STAGE
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
5'-1"
NEW 6" REINFORCED
RECESSED CONCRETE
SLAB, FOR PLATFORM
LIFT. RECESS SLAB 3"±
BELOW TOP OF
EXISTING CONCRETE,
COORDINATE WITH LIFT
MANUFACTURER.
VERTICAL
PLATFORM LIFT
NEW CMU WALL - PAINT
BOTH SIDES
4'-4"4'-7"
8'-11"
5'-8"
1ST-FLOOR-MUSIC-ROOM
F.F.-ELEV-522'-4"-V.I.F.
1ST-FLOOR-STAGE
F.F.-ELEV-522'-4"-V.I.F.
S104
CUSTODIAL
118
MUSIC ROOM
PROVIDE NEW DOOR
AND FRAME
PROVIDE RUBBER FLOOR,
TRENDS AND LANDING
RAISED PLATFORM &
STAIRS PLYWOOD WITH
WOOD FRAMING
1ST-FLOOR-COR-C107
F.F.-ELEV-520'-0"-V.I.F.
34
117
STAGE
S104
CUSTODIAL
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING CMU WALL
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
DOORS AND FRAMES
8'-10 3/4"
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING HAND RAILING
118
MUSIC ROOM
1ST-FLOOR-COR-C107
F.F.-ELEV-520'-0"-V.I.F.
1DEMO FLOOR PLAN
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
2NEW FLOOR PLAN
SKA-1 MUSIC ROOM OPTION 1 VERTICAL LIFT
DRAFT
===PAGE 82===
DN
DN
S104
CUSTODIAL 3'-10"
5'-1 1/2"5'-8"
DN
7'-3 1/2"
DN
1ST-FLOOR-LANDING
F.F.-ELEV-521'-9"-V.I.F.
53
3'-1 1/2"117
STAGE
120
BOILER ROOM
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
C109
RECEIVING
DN
DN
1'-0" 1'-0"
1'-11"1'-10"1'-0"
8'-4" 1'-0"
4'-0"
1'-0"
1ST-FLOOR-STAGE
F.F.-ELEV-522'-4"-V.I.F.
4'-8"4'-0"
1'-0"
1'-0"
1ST-FLOOR-LANDING
F.F.-ELEV-521'-1"-V.I.F.
RAMP
SLOPE = 1":13"
1'-1"
13'-6 1/2"
8"
RAMP
SLOPE = 1":13"
RAMP
SLOPE = 1":13"
INSTALL NEW DOOR
AND FRAME
EXISTING STAIRS
2'-0"
MIN.
1ST-FLOOR-COR-C107
F.F.-ELEV-520'-0"-V.I.F.
34
117
STAGE
S104
CUSTODIAL
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
REMOVE AND DISPOSE EXISTING
WALL AND HAND RAILING
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING DOOR
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING SINK
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING DOOR
5'-1"
118
MUSIC ROOM
STAIRS TO REMAIN 1ST-FLOOR-COR-C107
F.F.-ELEV-520'-0"-V.I.F.
1DEMO FLOOR PLAN
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
2NEW FLOOR PLAN
SKA-2  MUSIC ROOM OPTION 2 RAMP
DRAFT
===PAGE 83===
DN
TOIL.
T109
3'-4 1/2"
TOILET
L108
4'-3"
JAN. CL.
S105
L109
BOY'S
TOILETREMOVE AND DISPOSE
METAL PARTITION
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING WALL
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING SINK
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE METAL
DOOR AND FRAME
UP
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE METAL
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING WALL
L106
BOY'S
LOCKER
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING WALL AND WINDOW
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
EXISTING WALL
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE LOCKERS
L107
OFFICE
STORAGE
4'-0"
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE SINK
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE
URINAL AND
TOILET
TOILET
T108
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE PORTION
OF BRICK AND
CMU WALL
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
DEMO FLOOR PLAN
SKA-3 TOILETS & LOCKER ROOM  AT 1ST FLOOR - DEMOLITION FLOOR PLAN
DRAFT
===PAGE 84===
DN
UNISEX
TOILET
T109
JAN. CL.
S105
L108
4'-3"
UNISEX
TOILET
T108
BOY'S
TOILET
L109
1'-10"
GIRL'S
TOILET
1'-10"
UP
L107
OFFICE
L106
BOY'S
LOCKER
6'-9"10'-3"
2'-10 1/2"
2'-2" PROVIDE NEW
GRAB BARS
AND TOILET
NEW CMU
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND FRAME
NEW CMU WALL
BOARD
NEW CMU, PAINT
ALL WALLS
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND
FRAME
PROVIDE NEW SINK,
MIRROR, SOAP AND
TOWEL DISPENSER
PROVIDE NEW
GRAB BARS
AND TOILET
PROVIDE NEW
GRAB BARS
AND TOILET
3'-6"
PROVIDE NEW SINK,
MIRROR, SOAP AND
TOWEL DISPENSER
PROVIDE NEW
DOORS AND FRAMES23
24
25
26
27
28
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
NEW FLOOR PLAN
SKA-3A TOILETS & LOCKER ROOM  AT 1ST FLOOR - NEW FLOOR PLAN
DRAFT
===PAGE 85===
A104 A105
A101
OFFICE
A103
A106
A109
A101
PRINCIPAL
COUNSEL COUNSEL
CONFERENCE
ROOM
HEALTH
A108
UNISEX
ACCESSIBLE
TOILET
7'-4"
REINSTALL CASEWORK
AND WINDOWS
4'-2"
NEW CMU, PAINT
WALL
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND FRAME
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND FRAME
STAFF TOILET
A107
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND FRAME
 NEW GYPSUM
WALL BOARD
1'-6"
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND FRAME
PROVIDE
NEW TOILET
AND GRAB
BARS
PROVIDE
NEW SINK
NEW CMU, PAINT
ALL WALLS
EXISTING DOOR
AND FRAME
30
31
29
32
A104 A105
A101
OFFICE
A103
A106
A109
A101
PRINCIPAL
COUNSEL COUNSEL
CONFERENCE
ROOM
HEALTH
A107
BOY'S TOILET
A108
ACCESSIBLE TOILET
REMOVE AND STORE
CASEWORK AND WINDOW
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE CMU WALL
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE CASEWORK
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE TOILET
AND SINK
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
DOOR AND FRAME
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE CMU
DOOR AND FRAME
TO REMAIN
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
SKA-4 ADMINISTRATION OFFICES - DEMOLITION AND NEW FLOOR PLANS
1DEMO FLOOR PLAN
2NEW  FLOOR PLAN
DRAFT
===PAGE 86===
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
BOYS
TOILET
WOMEN'S
TOILET
T103
MEN'S
TOILET
T104
T102
NEW ACCESSIBLE
URINAL
NEW PARTITIONS
NEW TOILETS
PROVIDE NEW TOILET
AND GRAB BARS
PROVIDE NEW
TOILET
PARTITIONS
PROVIDE NEW SINKS,
MIRRORS AND SOAP
DISPENSERS
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR
PROVIDE NEW
TOILET AND
GRAB BARS
PROVIDE NEW
SINK
PROVIDE NEW
DOOR AND
FRAME
PROVIDE NEW
TOILET
PARTITIONS
PROVIDE NEW
GRAB BARS
AND TOILET
PROVIDE NEW URINALS
PROVIDE TOWEL
DISPENSER
PROVIDE NEW
TOWEL DISPENSER
PROVIDE NEW
SINKS, MIRRORS
AND SOAP
DISPENSERS
PROVIDE NEW ADA
PUSH BUTTONS
19
20 17
18
PROVIDE NEW
TOILET
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE SINK,
TOWEL AND SOAP
DISPENSER
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
MIRRORS & SHELF
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE
TOILETS
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
ALL TOILET PARTITIONS
AND DOORS
TOILETS TO REMAIN
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE URINAL
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE URINAL
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
SINK, TOWEL AND
SOAP DISPENSER
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE
TOILET AND
GRAB BARS
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE SINK
SOAP AND
TOWEL
DISPENSER
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE DOOR
AND FRAME
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE DOOR
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE URINAL
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE TOWEL
DISPENSER
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE DOOR
AND FRAME
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
BOYS
TOILET
T102
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
SKA-5 BOY'S AND GIRL'S TOILETS T101, T102, T201 & T202 - DEMOLITION AND
NEW FLOOR PLANS, SIMILAR WITH MEN'S & WOMEN'S
2NEW FLOOR PLAN
1DEMO FLOOR PLAN
DRAFT
===PAGE 87===
K103
FOOD
STOR.
K102
OFFICE
K103A
WALK-IN
REF.
STAFF
TOILET
K107
PROVIDE NEW GRAB
BARS AND TOILET
PROVIDE NEW SINK
PROVIDE NEW
SOAP DISPENSER
AND MIRROR
PROVIDE NEW TOWEL
DISPENSER
PROVIDE NEW DOOR
AND FRAME
PROVIDE NEW
CMU WALL, PAINT
6'-8"
8'-1"
PROVIDE NEW CEMENT
FLOOR AND GWB WALL
2'-5"±
2'-8"±
33
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE TOILET
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
TOILET PARTITIONS
REMOVE AND
DISPOSE SINK
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
LOCKERS
REMOVE AND DISPOSE
PORTION OF CMU WALL
1'-0"
K102
OFFICE
TOILET
K107
K103
FOOD
STOR. K103A
WALK-IN
REF.
REMOVE AND DISPOSE CMU
ALL AND CEMENT SLAB
DRAWING NO.  CSS ARCHITECTS INCORPORATED
Building Two, Suite 300        
107 Audubon Road
Wakefield, MA  01880
TURKEY HILL ADA AND UPGRADES
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWN:
CHECKED:
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTIONNO. DATE
SKA-6 KITCHEN STAFF TOILET ROOM - DEMOLITION AND NEW FLOOR PLANS
2NEW FLOOR PLAN
1DEMO FLOOR PLAN
DRAFT
===PAGE 88===
CLASSROOM
107
UP
UP
UP
UP
A104
ACCESSIBLE
WOMEN'S
TOILET
T103
ACCESSIBLE
MEN'S
TOILET
T104
CLASSROOM
105
CLASSROOM
103
CLASSROOM
101
SCIENCE
111
FACULTY
DINING
113
SCIENCE
109
RESOURCE
CENTER
110
TEACHERS
112
CENTRAL
OFFICE
114
LIBRARY
108
STORAGE
S101
STORAGE
S102
CLASSROOM
102
CLASSROOM
104
CLASSROOM
106
A105
A107
A101
LOBBY
A103
A106
A109
A101
PRINCIPAL
C112
STORAGE
S101
GYMNASIUM
122
 121
PHYS. ED.
SHOWERS
L105
C110
UP
COUNSEL COUNSEL
NCEROOMHEALTH
A108
DN
CORR.
C102
CORR.
C105
CORRIDOR
C103
CORR.
C104
CORR.
C102
VESTIBULE
V102
STORAGE
S108
DN
116
CAFETORIUM
116A
STAGE
118
MUSIC ROOM
118B
STOR.
118A
OFFICE
120
BOILER ROOM
 S104
CUSTODIAL
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
GIRL'S
STAIRS
STAFF
TOILET
UNISEX
TOILET
GIRL'S
STAIRS
C109
RECEIVING
121
MAINTENANCE
117
ACE
K101
KITCHEN
K103
FOOD
STOR.
K102
OFFICE
119
ACE
K101A
FREEZER
K103A
WAL-IN
REF.
CORRIDOR
C107
K107
ACCESSIBLE
TOILET
OFFICE
108A
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
BOYS
TOILET
BOYS
TOILET
T102
UP
1ST FLOOR CORR. - C103
F.F EL. 521' - 6" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR LOBBY - A101
F.F EL. 520' - 0" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR GYMNASIUM - 122
F.F EL. 514' - 9" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR STAGE - 118
F.F EL. 522' - 4" V.I.F.
STORAGE
T108
UNISEX
TOILET
L109
BOY'S
TOILET
S105
JAN.
CLOSET
L108
GIRL'S
TOILET
L107
OFFICE
T109
UNISEX
TOILET
DN
UP
500 CFM
CRV-2
500 CFM
CRV-2
250 CFM 250 CFM
FT-9 FT-9
CU-3
EF-10250 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-3
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-3
500 CFM
500 CFM
CRV-2
250 CFM
HV-1
18x26 TO HOOD
48x36 OA LOUVER
4400 CFM
48x36 OA LOUVER
5250 CFM
HV-2
48x24
2625 CFM
48x24
2625 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
FT-13 FT-13
18x24 REG.
450 CFM
EF-3
EF-14
(900 CFM)
CU-3
CU-4
H-3
CV-1
CV-1
EF-16
EF-15
EF-4
48x12
1100 CFM
48x12
1100 CFM48x12
1100 CFM48x12
1100 CFM
EF-2
CU-5
EF-13
FT-9
FT-6 FT-6
EF-12CV-1
CV-1
FT-11 FT-12 FT-1
EF-20
EF-19
HV-6HV-5
CV-1
CV-1
EF-21
CU-X?
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
HV-4
EF-17EF-18
H-1
HV-4
EF-17EF-18
H-1
HV-3
DHW
TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
PUMP PUMP PUMP
12'x12'
FT-15 FT-15
FT-16 FT-16
CU-2CU-2
FT-7
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
CU-1
CU-1
FT-6 FT-6
FT-3 FT-3
EF-9 EF-10
SEE ROOF PLAN FOR DOME TYPE FANS (TYP.)
26x26
BREECHING
20x20
BREECHING
26x26 FLUE
FT-13
BOILER 1BOILER 2
NEW ELECTRIC ROOM
CLASSROOM
207
CLASSROOM
205
CLASSROOM
203
CLASSROOM
201
CLASSROOM
215
CLASSROOM
213
CLASSROOM
211
CLASSROOM
209
STORAGE
S201
CLASSROOM
202
CORR.
C201
CORR.
C203
CORRIDOR
C202
202A
CLASSROOM
204
CLASSROOM
206
CLASSROOM
208
CLASSROOM
210
CLASSROOM
212
READING
MACHINES
214
LANGUAGE
LAB
216
OFFCE
217
STORAGE
S203
DN
CUSTODIAL
S202
DN
2ND FLOOR CORR. - C202
F.F EL. 532' - 5 1/4" V.I.F.
BOYS
TOILET
L102
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
38
3736
35
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
FT-3 FT-1 FT-3
EF-5
EF-1
CU-2
EF-6
EF-8EF-3
EF-1EF-11
CU-2
FT-3FT-2FT-4FT-4
EF-7
FT-5 FT-5
EF-5
SEE ROOF PLAN FOR DOME TYPE FANS (TYP.)
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
SEE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN FOR ROOMS
BELOW THIS AREA
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
L102
OFFICE
C110
C112
GIRLS STAIRS
GIRLS
STAIRS
SHOWERS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
SEE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN FOR ROOMS
BELOW THIS AREA
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
C110
GIRLS
STAIRS
DN
DN
SHOWERS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
1ST FLOOR GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM - L101
F.F. EL. 523' - 11 5/8" V.I .F.
CALLED NORTH
Scale:
Date: 03/28/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
MM
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
1 3
2
MEP OPTION 1
FIRST & SECOND
FLOOR PLANS & GIRL'S
LOCKER ROOM PLAN
MEP1.1
JC
1/16" = 1' - 0"
 FIRST FLOOR PLAN  GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM PLAN
 SECOND FLOOR PLAN
0 8' 16'32' 4' 0 8' 16'32' 4'
OPTION 1 - ADA & BUILDING UPGRADES ONLY:
REFER TO NARRATIVE STUDY FOR DETAILS
FIRE ALARM:
THE BUILDING OWNER IS CURRENTLY UNDERTAKING A COMPREHENSIVE UPGRADE OF THE FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
TO MEET MODERN FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS AND CODE COMPLIANCE. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS
INCLUDE INTEGRATING VOICE EVACUATION CAPABILITIES AND INSTALLING MONITORING MODULES FOR TAMPER
AND FLOW SWITCHES TO ACCOMMODATE FUTURE FIRE PROTECTION ENHANCEMENTS.
ELECTRICAL:
MAIN SWITCHBOARD:
TO ENHANCE SYSTEM RELIABILITY AND MEET CURRENT OPERATIONAL DEMANDS, THE EXISTING SQUARE
D 1,200A, 120/208V, 3-PHASE, 4-WIRE MAIN SWITCH WILL BE REPLACED WITH A MODERN 1,200A,
120/208V, 3-PHASE, 4-WIRE SWITCHBOARD, EQUIPPED WITH 16-200A CIRCUIT BREAKERS. THE
UPGRADED SWITCHBOARD WILL INCORPORATE STATE-OF-THE-ART EQUIPMENT TO ENSURE IMPROVED
SAFETY, EFFICIENCY, AND MONITORING CAPABILITIES.
PANELBOARD UPGRADES:
THIRTEEN (13) OUTDATED PANELBOARDS, RANGING FROM 100A TO 200A, WILL BE REPLACED WITH
NEW UNITS TO MAINTAIN RELIABLE AND EFFICIENT POWER DISTRIBUTION THROUGHOUT THE FACILITY.
THESE NEW PANELBOARDS WILL BE CONFIGURED TO SUPPORT 120/208V, 3-PHASE, 4-WIRE
DISTRIBUTION, INCORPORATING MOLDED-CASE CIRCUIT BREAKERS WITH INTEGRAL GROUND FAULT
PROTECTION FOR ENHANCED SAFETY.
INSPECT ALL DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS AND REPAIR OR REPLACE AS REQUIRED.
MECHANICAL:
HOT WATER GENERATION EQUIPMENT:
·REPAIR/REFURBISH (2) EXISTING BOILERS AND ASSOCIATED HOT WATER GENERATION EQUIPMENT AT
THE BOILER ROOM.
VENTILATION & DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT:
·REPAIR/REFURBISH SIX (6) HEATING & VENTILATOR UNITS.
·REPAIR/REFURBISH TWENTY-NINE (29) EXISTING UNIT VENTILATORS IN CLASSROOMS.
·REPAIR/REFURBISH TWO (2) EXISTING UNIT VENTILATORS IN PHYS & TWO (2) EXISTING UNIT
VENTILATORS IN SHOP WITH UNITS OF LIKE KIND.
·REPAIR/REFURBISH TWENTY-ONE (21) EXISTING EXHAUST FANS.
·REPAIR/REPLACE EXISTING HOT WATER PIPING & DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AS REQUIRED.
·REPLACE 208 LINEAR FEET OF BASEBOARD HEATING.
·AS PART OF THE ROOF REPLACEMENT, EXTEND DUCTWORK & PROVIDE NEW EXTENDED CURB FOR
TWENTY-ONE EXISTING (21) EXHAUST FANS (EF-X) LOCATED ON THE ROOF OF EACH BUILDING.  IF
FOUND, REPLACE ANY NON-FUNCTIONING GRAVITY DAMPERS.
.
INSPECT DUCTWORK, REGISTERS, GRILLES & DISTRIBUTION COMPONENTS AND CLEAN, REPAIR OR
REPLACE AS REQUIRED.
PLUMBING:
MODIFICATIONS TO SUPPORT ADA BATHROOMS.
REPAIR OR REPLACE PIPING AS REQUIRED.
FIRE PROTECTION:
IF THE WORK EXCEEDS 30%, PROVIDE NEW CODE COMPLIANT NFPA 13 BASED FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM
THROUGHOUT THE TWO BUILDINGS WITH NEW MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCE IF AVAILABLE OR WATER STORAGE
SYSTEM IF NOT.
DRAFT
===PAGE 89===
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTRRD
VTR
VTRRD
RD
SLOPE
VTR
RD RD
RDRD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
RDRD
5 11/16"
OPEN
TO COURTYARD
BELOW
OPEN
TO
BELOW
SLOPE
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
EF-13
EF-2
EF-3
EF-4
EF-15
EF-12 EF-16
EF-7
EF-6
EF-8
EF-4
EF-5
EF-3
EF-1EF-11EF-5
EF-14
CLASSROOM WING:  TYPE R-1
·EPDM (MECHANICALLY FASTENED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING METAL DECK
GYPNASIUM WING: TYPE R-2A (SLOPED ROOF)
· EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·12" COVERBOARD
·4 12" RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
CAFETORIUM & LOBBY WING (INCL. LINKS):  TYPE R-2B
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
FLAT AREA OF ENTRY CANOPY ROOF:  TYPE R-3
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
NOTE: ROOF STRUCTURE SLOPES TO DRAIN. TAPER
 INSULATION NOT REQUIRED
OPEN
OPEN
R-2B
R-1
R-2AR-2B
R-2B
R-3
Scale:
Date: 03/28/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
MM
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
CALLED NORTH
MEP OPTION 1
ROOF PLAN
MEP1.2
JC
AS NOTED
CALLED NORTH
1 NEW CONSTRUCTION | ROOF PLAN 2 ROOF TYPES & ROOF TYPE KEY PLAN
OPTION 1 (ROOF):
REFER TO NARRATIVE STUDY FOR DETAILS
ELECTRICAL:
EXTEND POWER TO (21) EXISTING ROOFTOP FANS TO AS PART OF THE ROOF REPLACEMENT WORK.
INSPECT ALL DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS AND REPAIR OR REPLACE AS REQUIRED.
MECHANICAL:
EXTEND (21) EXISTING ROOFTOP FANS TO AS PART OF THE ROOF REPLACEMENT WORK.
INSPECT DUCTWORK, REGISTERS, GRILLES & DISTRIBUTION COMPONENTS AND CLEAN, REPAIR OR
REPLACE AS REQUIRED.
PLUMBING:
EXTEND EXISTING ROOFTOP VENTS TO ACCOMMODATE ROOF REPLACEMENT WORK.
===PAGE 90===
CLASSROOM
107
UP
UP
UP
UP
A104
ACCESSIBLE
WOMEN'S
TOILET
T103
ACCESSIBLE
MEN'S
TOILET
T104
CLASSROOM
105
CLASSROOM
103
CLASSROOM
101
SCIENCE
111
FACULTY
DINING
113
SCIENCE
109
RESOURCE
CENTER
110
TEACHERS
112
CENTRAL
OFFICE
114
LIBRARY
108
STORAGE
S101
STORAGE
S102
CLASSROOM
102
CLASSROOM
104
CLASSROOM
106
A105
A107
A101
LOBBY
A103
A106
A109
A101
PRINCIPAL
C112
STORAGE
S101
GYMNASIUM
122
 121
PHYS. ED.
SHOWERS
L105
C110
UP
COUNSEL COUNSEL
NCEROOMHEALTH
A108
DN
CORR.
C102
CORR.
C105
CORRIDOR
C103
CORR.
C104
CORR.
C102
VESTIBULE
V102
STORAGE
S108
DN
116
CAFETORIUM
116A
STAGE
118
MUSIC ROOM
118B
STOR.
118A
OFFICE
120
BOILER ROOM
 S104
CUSTODIAL
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
GIRL'S
STAIRS
STAFF
TOILET
UNISEX
TOILET
GIRL'S
STAIRS
C109
RECEIVING
121
MAINTENANCE
117
ACE
K101
KITCHEN
K103
FOOD
STOR.
K102
OFFICE
119
ACE
K101A
FREEZER
K103A
WAL-IN
REF.
CORRIDOR
C107
K107
ACCESSIBLE
TOILET
OFFICE
108A
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
BOYS
TOILET
BOYS
TOILET
T102
UP
1ST FLOOR CORR. - C103
F.F EL. 521' - 6" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR LOBBY - A101
F.F EL. 520' - 0" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR GYMNASIUM - 122
F.F EL. 514' - 9" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR STAGE - 118
F.F EL. 522' - 4" V.I.F.
STORAGE
T108
UNISEX
TOILET
L109
BOY'S
TOILET
S105
JAN.
CLOSET
L108
GIRL'S
TOILET
L107
OFFICE
T109
UNISEX
TOILET
DN
UP
500 CFM
CRV-2
500 CFM
CRV-2
250 CFM 250 CFM
FT-9 FT-9
CU-3
EF-10250 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-3
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-3
500 CFM
500 CFM
CRV-2
250 CFM
HV-1
18x26 TO HOOD
48x36 OA LOUVER
4400 CFM
48x36 OA LOUVER
5250 CFM
HV-2
48x24
2625 CFM
48x24
2625 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
36x12
1315 CFM
FT-13 FT-13
18x24 REG.
450 CFM
EF-3
EF-14
(900 CFM)
CU-3
CU-4
H-3
CV-1
CV-1
EF-16
EF-15
EF-4
48x12
1100 CFM
48x12
1100 CFM48x12
1100 CFM48x12
1100 CFM
EF-2
CU-5
EF-13
FT-9
FT-6 FT-6
EF-12CV-1
CV-1
FT-11 FT-12 FT-1
EF-20
EF-19
HV-6HV-5
CV-1
CV-1
EF-21
CU-X?
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
1000 CFM
CRV-1
500 CFM
HV-4
EF-17EF-18
H-1
HV-4
EF-17EF-18
H-1
HV-3
DHW
TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
PUMP PUMP PUMP
12'x12'
FT-15 FT-15
FT-16 FT-16
CU-2CU-2
FT-7
CU-1
CU-1
FT-6 FT-6
FT-3 FT-3
EF-9 EF-10
SEE ROOF PLAN FOR DOME TYPE FANS (TYP.)
26x26
BREECHING
20x20
BREECHING
26x26 FLUE
BOILER 1-4BOILER 5-8
AC COOLING ZONES
FCUFCU FCUFCUFCU
FCU
FCUFCUFCUFCUFCUFCUFCU
FCU FCU
NEW ELECTRIC ROOM
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
CLASSROOM
207
CLASSROOM
205
CLASSROOM
203
CLASSROOM
201
CLASSROOM
215
CLASSROOM
213
CLASSROOM
211
CLASSROOM
209
STORAGE
S201
CLASSROOM
202
CORR.
C201
CORR.
C203
CORRIDOR
C202
202A
CLASSROOM
204
CLASSROOM
206
CLASSROOM
208
CLASSROOM
210
CLASSROOM
212
READING
MACHINES
214
LANGUAGE
LAB
216
OFFCE
217
STORAGE
S203
DN
CUSTODIAL
S202
DN
2ND FLOOR CORR. - C202
F.F EL. 532' - 5 1/4" V.I.F.
BOYS
TOILET
L102
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
38
3736
35
FT-3 FT-1 FT-3
CU-2
CU-2
FT-3FT-2FT-4FT-4
EF-7
FT-5 FT-5
FCUFCUFCUFCUFCUFCUFCUFCU
FCUFCUFCU FCUFCUFCUFCUFCU
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RAERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA ERV
OA
EA
SA
RA
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
SEE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN FOR ROOMS
BELOW THIS AREA
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
L102
OFFICE
C110
C112
GIRLS STAIRS
GIRLS
STAIRS
SHOWERS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
SEE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN FOR ROOMS
BELOW THIS AREA
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
C110
GIRLS
STAIRS
DN
DN
SHOWERS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
1ST FLOOR GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM - L101
F.F. EL. 523' - 11 5/8" V.I .F.
CALLED NORTH
Scale:
Date: 03/28/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
MM
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
1 3
2
MEP OPTION 2
FIRST & SECOND
FLOOR PLANS & GIRL'S
LOCKER ROOM PLAN
MEP2.1
JC
1/16" = 1' - 0"
 FIRST FLOOR PLAN  GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM PLAN
 SECOND FLOOR PLAN
0 8' 16'32' 4' 0 8' 16'32' 4'
OPTION 2 - ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL HOT WATER & SELECTIVE AC UPGRADES:
REFER TO NARRATIVE STUDY FOR DETAILS
FIRE ALARM:
THE BUILDING OWNER IS CURRENTLY UNDERTAKING A COMPREHENSIVE UPGRADE OF THE FIRE ALARM
SYSTEM TO MEET MODERN FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS AND CODE COMPLIANCE. ADDITIONAL
RECOMMENDATIONS INCLUDE INTEGRATING VOICE EVACUATION CAPABILITIES AND INSTALLING MONITORING
MODULES FOR TAMPER AND FLOW SWITCHES TO ACCOMMODATE FUTURE FIRE PROTECTION
ENHANCEMENTS.
ELECTRICAL:
·REPLACE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS FOR EXISTING 1,200A @
208/120V/3PH, 4-WIRE AC WITH NEW 1,600A SERVICE.
·INSPECT ALL DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS AND REPAIR OR REPLACE AS
REQUIRED.
MECHANICAL:
HEATING SYSTEM:
·BOILER ROOM: REPLACE (2) EXISTING BOILERS AND ASSOCIATED HOT WATER GENERATION
EQUIPMENT WITH (8) NEW VIESSMAN 200-W CASCADE SYSTEM NATURAL GAS
CONDENSING STEAM BOILERS @ 4,240,000 BTU FOR B2HA-530.
REPLACE HEATING DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT - EXTERNAL TO BOILER ROOM
·(31) CLASSROOM VENTILATOR UNITS (CRV TYPE 1 THRU 3) WITH CEILING MOUNTED FCU'S
WITH (2) ROOF TOP ERV'S FOR VENTILATION; OR AN ERV WITH EACH NEW FCU.
·(4) CABINET UNITS (CU) - LOCATED IN SHOP, BOILER ROOM & GYM.
·DEMO (2) EXISTING H&V UNITS IN LOCKER ROOM AREAS.
·REPLACE (208) LIN.FT. OF BASEBOARD HEATING.
·NEW STEAM, HOT WATER, AND ELECTRIC UNIT HEATERS WILL BE INSTALLED THROUGHOUT
THE BUILDING TO REPLACE EXISTING UNIT HEATERS IN CORRIDORS, VESTIBULES, AND
BATHROOMS. STEAM-FINNED TUBE RADIATORS WILL BE INSTALLED IN THE NEW OFFICE
SPACES ADJACENT TO THE MAIN LOBBY. WALL-MOUNTED SPLIT SYSTEMS WILL BE
PROVIDED TO SELECT ADMINISTRATION AREAS THAT WILL BE ACTIVE YEAR-ROUND.
VENTILATION:
·REPLACE (6) HV'S WITH ROOFTOP ERV'S.
·INSPECT DUCTWORK, REGISTERS, GRILLES & DISTRIBUTION COMPONENTS AND CLEAN,
REPAIR OR REPLACE AS REQUIRED
·REPLACE (21) EXHAUST FANS WITH LIKE KIND; NEW ROOF-MOUNTED EXHAUST FANS AND
ROOF CURBS WILL BE INSTALLED TO REPLACE THE EXISTING FANS. NEW DUCTWORK.
PLUMBING:
MODIFICATIONS TO SUPPORT ADA BATHROOMS; REPLACE PLUMBING FIXTURES THROUGHOUT TO
MEET CURRENT CODE REQUIREMENTS. 
NEW DOMESTIC WATER HEATING AND MIXING VALVE AND LOCAL TRIM.
FIRE PROTECTION:
NEW SPRINKLER SYSTEM FOR ENTIRE BUILDING.
DRAFT
===PAGE 91===
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTRRD
VTR
VTRRD
RD
SLOPE
VTR
RD RD
RDRD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
RDRD
5 11/16"
OPEN
TO COURTYARD
BELOW
OPEN
TO
BELOW
SLOPE
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
EF-13
EF-2
EF-3
EF-4
EF-15
EF-12 EF-16
EF-7
EF-14
CU-1.1
AC COOLING ADMIN
ERV-2.1 ERV-2.2
(2ND FLOOR - 8,000 CFM)
(1ST FLOOR - 8,000 CFM)
provided with reheat
ERV-1
KITCHEN - EXIST. HV-1
(4,400 CFM - 100% OA)
CAFETORIUM - EXIST. HV-2
(2,625 CFM - 50% OA)
ERV-2
ERV-4
GYMNASIUM - EXIST. HV-4
(3,340 CFM - 50% OA)
(ADD VENTILATION FOR LOCKER AREAS)
BOILER ROOM - EXIST. HV-3
(6,000 CFM - 100% OA)
ERV-3
ERV-5
ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMON AREAS
(600 CFM OA)
12-Tons Cooling
MUSIC
(500 CFM OA)
ERV-6
CLASSROOM WING:  TYPE R-1
·EPDM (MECHANICALLY FASTENED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING METAL DECK
GYPNASIUM WING: TYPE R-2A (SLOPED ROOF)
· EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·12" COVERBOARD
·4 12" RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
CAFETORIUM & LOBBY WING (INCL. LINKS):  TYPE R-2B
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
FLAT AREA OF ENTRY CANOPY ROOF:  TYPE R-3
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
NOTE: ROOF STRUCTURE SLOPES TO DRAIN. TAPER
 INSULATION NOT REQUIRED
OPEN
OPEN
R-2B
R-1
R-2AR-2B
R-2B
R-3
Scale:
Date: 03/28/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
MM
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
CALLED NORTH
MEP OPTION 2
ROOF PLAN
MEP2.2
JC
AS NOTED
CALLED NORTH
1 NEW CONSTRUCTION | ROOF PLAN 2 ROOF TYPES & ROOF TYPE KEY PLAN
OPTION 2 (ROOF):
REFER TO NARRATIVE STUDY FOR DETAILS
VENTILATION:
·REPLACE (6) HV'S WITH ROOFTOP ERV'S SERVING THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING.
·PROVIDE (2) NEW ROOF TOP ERV'S FOR VENTILATION; OR AN ERV WITH EACH NEW FCU SERVING
THE CLASSROOM WING.
·INSPECT DUCTWORK, REGISTERS, GRILLES & DISTRIBUTION COMPONENTS AND CLEAN, REPAIR OR
REPLACE AS REQUIRED.
·REPLACE (21) EXHAUST FANS WITH LIKE KIND; NEW ROOF-MOUNTED EXHAUST FANS AND ROOF
CURBS WILL BE INSTALLED TO REPLACE THE EXISTING FANS. NEW DUCTWORK.  TO BE FINALIZED
DURING DESIGN.
===PAGE 92===
GYMNASIUM & B/G
LOCKER AREAS TO
HAVE DEDICATED AHU
AND VRF SYSTEMS.
UTILITY, SHOP AND
STORAGE AREAS TO
HAVE HEATING AND
VENTILATION ONLY.
PROVIDE SPLIT SYSTEMS  FOR
REMAINING SUPPORTING ROOMS;
OFFICES, STORAGE, ETC.
CLASSROOM
107
UP
UP
UP
UP
A104
ACCESSIBLE
WOMEN'S
TOILET
T103
ACCESSIBLE
MEN'S
TOILET
T104
CLASSROOM
105
CLASSROOM
103
CLASSROOM
101
SCIENCE
111
FACULTY
DINING
113
SCIENCE
109
RESOURCE
CENTER
110
TEACHERS
112
CENTRAL
OFFICE
114
108
STORAGE
S101
STORAGE
S102
CLASSROOM
102
CLASSROOM
104
CLASSROOM
106
A105
A107
A101
LOBBY
A103
A106
A109
A101
PRINCIPAL
C112
STORAGE
S101
GYMNASIUM
122
 121
PHYS. ED.
SHOWERS
L105
C110
UP
COUNSEL COUNSEL
NCEROOMHEALTH
A108
DN
CORR.
C102
CORR.
C105
CORRIDOR
C103
CORR.
C104
CORR.
C102
VESTIBULE
V102
STORAGE
S108
DN
116
CAFETORIUM
116A
STAGE
118
MUSIC ROOM
118B
STOR.
118A
OFFICE
120
BOILER ROOM
 S104
CUSTODIAL
S103
CHAIR
STORAGE
GIRL'S
STAIRS
STAFF
TOILET
UNISEX
TOILET
GIRL'S
STAIRS
C109
RECEIVING
121
MAINTENANCE
117
ACE
K101
KITCHEN
K103
FOOD
STOR.
K102
OFFICE
119
ACE
K101A
FREEZER
K103A
WAL-IN
REF.
CORRIDOR
C107
K107
ACCESSIBLE
TOILET
OFFICE
108A
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
BOYS
TOILET
BOYS
TOILET
T102
UP
1ST FLOOR CORR. - C103
F.F EL. 521' - 6" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR LOBBY - A101
F.F EL. 520' - 0" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR GYMNASIUM - 122
F.F EL. 514' - 9" V.I.F.
1ST FLOOR STAGE - 118
F.F EL. 522' - 4" V.I.F.
STORAGE
T108
UNISEX
TOILET
L109
BOY'S
TOILET
S105
JAN.
CLOSET
L108
GIRL'S
TOILET
L107
OFFICE
T109
UNISEX
TOILET
DN
UP
NEW ELECTRIC ROOM
BOILER 1BOILER 2
18x24 REG.
450 CFM
EF-14
(900 CFM)
HV-3
DHW
TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
EXP. TANK
PUMP PUMP PUMP
12'x12'
26x26
BREECHING
20x20
BREECHING
26x26 FLUE
IU-2.10
CLASSROOM
207
CLASSROOM
205
CLASSROOM
203
CLASSROOM
201
CLASSROOM
215
CLASSROOM
213
CLASSROOM
211
CLASSROOM
209
STORAGE
S201
CLASSROOM
202
CORR.
C201
CORR.
C203
CORRIDOR
C202
202A
CLASSROOM
204
CLASSROOM
208
CLASSROOM
210
CLASSROOM
212
READING
MACHINES
214
LANGUAGE
LAB
216
OFFCE
217
STORAGE
S203
DN
CUSTODIAL
S202
DN
2ND FLOOR CORR. - C202
F.F EL. 532' - 5 1/4" V.I.F.
BOYS
TOILET
L102
GIRLS
TOILET
T101
38
3736
35
CLASSROOM
206
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
SEE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN FOR ROOMS
BELOW THIS AREA
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
L102
OFFICE
C110
C112
GIRLS STAIRS
GIRLS
STAIRS
SHOWERS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
GYMNASIUM
BELOW
122
SEE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN FOR ROOMS
BELOW THIS AREA
L101
GIRL'S
LOCKERS
C110
GIRLS
STAIRS
DN
DN
SHOWERS
L101A
GIRL'S
TOILET
L103
SHOWER
1ST FLOOR GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM - L101
F.F. EL. 523' - 11 5/8" V.I .F.
CALLED NORTH
Scale:
Date: 03/28/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
MM
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
1 3
2
MEP OPTION 3
FIRST & SECOND
FLOOR PLANS & GIRL'S
LOCKER ROOM PLAN
MEP3.1
JC
1/16" = 1' - 0"
 FIRST FLOOR PLAN  GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM PLAN
 SECOND FLOOR PLAN
0 8' 16'32' 4' 0 8' 16'32' 4'
OPTION 3 - ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING/LEGACY SUPPLEMENTAL HEATING:
-IF FUNDING DICTATES ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING
-SKETCH SHOWN IS FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES
-USE SQ.FT. COST ANALYSIS FOR THIS MECHANICAL PORTION OF THE STUDY
FIRE ALARM:
THE BUILDING OWNER IS CURRENTLY UNDERTAKING A COMPREHENSIVE UPGRADE OF THE FIRE
ALARM SYSTEM TO MEET MODERN FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS AND CODE COMPLIANCE. ADDITIONAL
RECOMMENDATIONS INCLUDE INTEGRATING VOICE EVACUATION CAPABILITIES AND INSTALLING
MONITORING MODULES FOR TAMPER AND FLOW SWITCHES TO ACCOMMODATE FUTURE FIRE
PROTECTION ENHANCEMENTS.
ELECTRICAL:
·REPLACE EXISTING: 1,200A @ 208/120V/3PH, 4-WIRE SERVICE WITH NEW 2,000A
UPGRADE TO SUPPORT HVAC UPGRADE TO ALL ELECTRIC ERV/VRF SYSTEM.
·REPLACE ALL DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS WITH NEW.
MECHANICAL:
·INSTALL NEW VRF HEATING/COOLING ABOVE CEILINGS IN CLASSROOM WING; EQUIPMENT
QUANTITY AND SELECTIONS TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN. (CLASSROOM WING - 2
INDOOR UNITS PER ROOFTOP ACCU.)
·INSTALL NEW VRF HEATING/COOLING IN ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING; EQUIPMENT
QUANTITY AND SELECTIONS TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·PROVIDE BRANCH BOXES & ADDITIONAL SUPPORTING EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS AS
REQUIRED DURING DESIGN TO SUPPORT THE MULTIPLE VRF SYSTEMS THROUGHOUT THE
BUILDING.
·PROVIDE NEW CONDENSATE DRAIN PIPING SYSTEM, TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·PROVIDE FIVE (5) NEW ENERGY RECOVERY UNITS (ERV'S) WITH ELECTRIC REHEAT COILS
LOCATED ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING, TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·PROVIDE (6) NEW 12-TON AIR-COOLED CONDENSING UNITS (ACCU'S) LOCATED ON THE
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING ROOF, TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·PROVIDE EIGHTEEN (18) NEW 12-TON AIR-COOLED CONDENSING UNITS (ACCU'S)
LOCATED ON THE CLASSROOM WING ROOF, TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·DEMO (21) EXHAUST FANS AND PROVIDE NEW AS REQUIRED BY DESIGN WITH ERV/VRF
SYSTEM.
PLUMBING:
·NEW PLUMBING PIPING, EQUIPMENT AND FIXTURES THROUGHOUT
·NEW KITCHEN.
·NEW DOMESTIC WATER HEATING AND MIXING VALVE AND LOCAL TRIM.
FIRE PROTECTION:
·IF WORK EXCEEDS 30%, PROVIDE NEW SPRINKLER SYSTEM THROUGH THE TWO
BUILDINGS.
DRAFT
===PAGE 93===
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTRRD
VTR
VTRRD
RD
SLOPE
VTR
RD RD
RDRD
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
VTR
RD
VTR
VTR
RDRD
5 11/16"
OPEN
TO COURTYARD
BELOW
OPEN
TO
BELOW
SLOPE
CU-1.2CU-1.1
ERV-1
KITCHEN - EXIST. HV-1
(4,400 CFM - 100% OA)
CAFETORIUM - EXIST. HV-2
(2,625 CFM - 50% OA)
24-Tons  Cooling
ERV-2
ERV-4
GYMNASIUM - EXIST. HV-4
(3,340 CFM - 50% OA)
(ADD VENTILATION FOR LOCKER AREAS)
BOILER ROOM - EXIST. HV-3
(6,000 CFM - 100% OA)
ERV-3
CU-1.3
ERV-5
ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMON AREAS
(600 CFM OA)
12-Tons Cooling
CU-1.5
CU-1.6
MUSIC
(500 CFM OA)
8-Tons Cooling
ERV-2.1 ERV-2.2
(2ND FLOOR - 8,000 CFM)
(1ST FLOOR - 8,000 CFM)
ACCU-2.1
ACCU-2.2 ACCU-2.3
ACCU-2.4 ACCU-2.6
ACCU-2.5
ACCU-2.8
ACCU-2.7
ACCU-2.10
ACCU-2.9
ACCU-2.12
ACCU-2.11
ACCU-2.14
ACCU-2.13
ACCU-2.16
ACCU-2.15
ACCU-2.18
ACCU-2.17
ERV-6
CU-1.4
CLASSROOM WING:  TYPE R-1
·EPDM (MECHANICALLY FASTENED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING METAL DECK
GYPNASIUM WING: TYPE R-2A (SLOPED ROOF)
· EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·12" COVERBOARD
·4 12" RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
CAFETORIUM & LOBBY WING (INCL. LINKS):  TYPE R-2B
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
·4 ½” RIGID INSULATION
·VAPOR BARRIER OVER EXISTING 2 34" ROOF PLANK
FLAT AREA OF ENTRY CANOPY ROOF:  TYPE R-3
·EPDM (FULLY ADHERED)
·½” COVERBOARD
NOTE: ROOF STRUCTURE SLOPES TO DRAIN. TAPER
 INSULATION NOT REQUIRED
OPEN
OPEN
R-2B
R-1
R-2AR-2B
R-2B
R-3
Scale:
Date: 03/28/2025
Drawn:
Checked:
Project No:1320
Title:
Revisions
No. DateBy Description
1 0 7  A u d u b o n  R o a d
Building 2, Suite 300
Wakefield, MA 01880
css@cssarchitects.com
CSS ARCHITECTS INC.
MM
TURKEY HILL
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
 ADA STUDY AND
BUILDING
ASSESSMENT
129 NORTHFIELD RD
 LUNENBURG, MA
CALLED NORTH
MEP OPTION 3
ROOF PLAN
MEP3.2
JC
AS NOTED
CALLED NORTH
1 NEW CONSTRUCTION | ROOF PLAN 2 ROOF TYPES & ROOF TYPE KEY PLAN
OPTION 3 (ROOF):
REFER TO NARRATIVE STUDY FOR DETAILS
IF FUNDING DICTATES ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING
SKETCH SHOWN IS FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES
USE SQ.FT. COST ANALYSIS FOR THIS PHASE OF THE STUDY
ELECTRICAL:
·REPLACE EXISTING: 1,200A @ 208/120V/3PH, 4-WIRE SERVICE WITH NEW 2,000A
UPGRADE TO SUPPORT HVAC UPGRADE TO ALL ELECTRIC ERV/VRF SYSTEM.
·REPLACE ALL DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT AND COMPONENTS WITH NEW.
MECHANICAL:
·PROVIDE FIVE (5) NEW ENERGY RECOVERY UNITS (ERV'S) WITH ELECTRIC REHEAT
COILS LOCATED ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING, TO BE FINALIZED DURING
DESIGN.
·PROVIDE (6) NEW 12-TON AIR-COOLED CONDENSING UNITS (ACCU'S) LOCATED ON
THE ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING ROOF, TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·PROVIDE EIGHTEEN (18) NEW 12-TON AIR-COOLED CONDENSING UNITS (ACCU'S)
LOCATED ON THE CLASSROOM WING ROOF, TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN.
·DEMO (21) EXHAUST FANS AND PROVIDE NEW AS REQUIRED BY DESIGN WITH
ERV/VRF SYSTEM.
PLUMBING:
·NEW PLUMBING PIPING, EQUIPMENT AND FIXTURES THROUGHOUT
·NEW KITCHEN.
·NEW DOMESTIC WATER HEATING AND MIXING VALVE AND LOCAL TRIM.
FIRE PROTECTION:
·IF WORK EXCEEDS 30%, PROVIDE NEW SPRINKLER SYSTEM THROUGH THE TWO
BUILDINGS.
===PAGE 94===
Turkey Hill Elementary School ADA and 
Assessment Study and Schematic Design 
 
Page 46 of 46 
Appendix D:  Full Cost Estimate: 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT
===PAGE 95===
Schematic Design 
Estimate
Turkey Hill Elementary School
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
PM&C LLC
20 Downer Ave, Suite 5 Prepared for:
Hingham, MA 02043
(T) 781-740-8007 CSS Architects Inc. 
(F) 781-740-1012
April 10, 2025

===PAGE 96===
Turkey Hill Elementary School
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 10-Apr-25
Lunenburg, MA
Construction Start Estimated Cost
Apr-26 $734,142
Apr-26 $2,762,820
Apr-26 $179,709
Apr-26 $2,250,681
Apr-26 $316,466
Apr-26 $1,674,996
Apr-26 $7,761,783
Apr-26 $12,247,871
Apr-26 $2,103,602
Excluded
MAIN CONSTRUCTION COST SUMMARY
LUNENBURG UPGRADE OPTIONS
A- Accessible Toilets and Office 
Modifications SKA 3-6
HazMat removals at existing building, by others
B- Roof Replacement  
C- New ADA Lift and Music Room Vestibule 
D- Windows Replacement Exterior A1.1 & 
A2.0
F- Option #1 MEP Options 
G- Option #2 MEP Options 
H- Option # 3 MEP Options 
E- Misc. ADA Work
J- Fire Protection Option
Executive Summary Page 2 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 97===
Turkey Hill Elementary School
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 10-Apr-25
Lunenburg, MA
Bidding conditions are expected to be public bidding under:
 If a CM at risk CH149a procurement is used costs will increase from the costs presented in this report.
ITEMS NOT INCLUDED IN THIS ESTIMATE 
Items not included in this estimate are:
Hazardous Abatement
All professional fees and insurance
Site or existing conditions surveys investigations costs, including to determine subsoil conditions
Items identified in the design as Not In Contract (NIC)
Items identified in the design as by others
Owner supplied and/or installed items (e.g. technology, furniture and equipment, etc.)
The estimate is based on prevailing wage rates for construction in this market and represents a reasonable opinion of cost. It is not a 
prediction of the successful bid from a contractor as bids will vary due to fluctuating market conditions, errors and omissions, 
proprietary specifications, lack or surplus of bidders, perception of risk, etc. Consequently the estimate is expected to fall within the 
range of bids from a number of competitive contractors or subcontractors, however we do not warrant that bids or negotiated prices 
will not vary from the final construction cost estimate.
This cost estimate was produced from Schematic Design  drawings, specifications and other documentation prepared by CSS 
Architect Inc. and their design team dated March 17, 2025. Design and engineering changes occurring subsequent to the issue of 
these documents have not been incorporated in this estimate.
This estimate includes all direct construction costs, general contractor’s profit and design contingency. Cost escalation assumes start 
dates indicated.
Chapter 149 of the Massachusetts General Laws to pre-qualified general contractors, and pre-qualified sub-contractors, open 
specifications for materials and manufacturers. 
BASIS OF ESTIMATE
Executive Summary Page 3 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 98===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA GFA 1,300
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT UNIT COST COST SUBTOTAL COST TOTAL COST
A- Accessible Toilets and Office Modifications SKA 3-6
1 GROSS FLOOR AREA CALCULATION
2
3 Total Work Area 1300 sf
4
5
TOTAL GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA) 1,300 sf
6
7 02 EXISTING CONDITIONS
8
9 Demolition
10 Remove and store casework and window 10 lf 25.00 250                     
11 Remove borrowed lights 9 lf 15.00 135                      
12 Remove casework 3 lf 25.00 75                        
13 Remove door 4 ea 100.00 400                     
14 Remove door and frame 17 ea 200.00 3,400                 
15 Remove grab bars pair 2 ea 50.00 100                     
16 Remove lockers 13 ea 75.00 975                      
17 Remove mirrors 17 ea 25.00 425                     
18 Remove portion of CMU wall 82 lf 120.00 9,840                 
19 Remove portions of SOG 44 sf 50.00 2,200                 
20 Remove bath accessories 7 ea 75.00 525                      
21 Remove toilet partitions 11 ea 150.00 1,650                  
22 Remove urinal screens 2 ea 50.00 100                     
23 Misc. demolition as req'd 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000                 
24 025000 Remove cut and capped MEP equipment, fixtures & fittings including 
rooftop equipment removal 
1,300 gsf 5.00 6,500
25 Temporary protection / dust control 1,300 gsf 15.00 19,500
26 SUBTOTAL: 51,075$              
27
28 TOTAL, DIVISION 3 - CONCRETE $51,075
29
30 03 CONCRETE
31
32 Concrete
33 Infill SOG 44 sf 100.00 4,400                 
34 Infill hole 2 ea 400.00 800                     
35 SUBTOTAL: 5,200$               
36
37 TOTAL, DIVISION 3 - CONCRETE $5,200
38
39 04 MASONRY
40
41 Unit Masonry
42 Wall X - 8" CMU 1,095 sf 50.00 54,750                
43 SUBTOTAL: 54,750$              
44
45
TOTAL, DIVISION 4 - MASONRY $54,750
46
47 05 METALS
48
49 Structural Framing
50 No items in this section -                     
51 SUBTOTAL: -$                   
52
53 Metal Fabrications
54 Misc. metals at masonry walls 1 ls 1,500.00 1,500                  
55 Misc. metals as req'd throughout 1300 gsf 3.00 3,900                 
56 SUBTOTAL: 5,400$               
57
58 TOTAL, DIVISION 5 - METALS $5,400
59
60 06 WOOD & PLASTICS
61
62 Rough Carpentry
63 Misc. rough carpentry & blocking as req'd throughout 1300 gsf 2.00 2,600                 
64 SUBTOTAL: 2,600$               
65
66 Architectural Woodwork
67 No work assumed -                     
Bath Reno Backup Page 4 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 99===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA GFA 1,300
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT UNIT COST COST SUBTOTAL COST TOTAL COST
A- Accessible Toilets and Office Modifications SKA 3-6
68 SUBTOTAL: -$                   
69
70 TOTAL, DIVISION 6 - WOOD & PLASTICS $2,600
71
72 07 THERMAL & MOISTURE PROTECTION
73
74 Dampproofing & Waterproofing
75 No items in this section -                     
76 SUBTOTAL: -                     -$                   
77 -                     
78 Penetration Firestopping -                     
79 Penetration firestopping as req'd 1,300 sf 1.00 1,300                  
80 SUBTOTAL: -                     1,300$                
81
82 Joint Sealants
83 Joint sealants as req'd 1,300 sf 3.00 3,900                 
84 SUBTOTAL: 3,900$               
85
86
87 TOTAL, DIVISION 7 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $5,200
88
89 08 DOORS & WINDOWS
90
91 Hollow Metal Doors and Frames
92 Frame 3079 INT 14 ea 450.00 6,300                 
93 SUBTOTAL: 6,300$               
94
95 Wood Doors
96 Door 3079 INT-WD 14 ea 650.00 9,100                  
97 New door leaf in ETR frame 2 ea 750.00 1,500                  
98 SUBTOTAL: 10,600$             
99
100
Door Hardware
101 New Hardware 16 ea 800.00 12,800               
102 Allow for ADA opener 2 ea 4,000.00 8,000                 
103 SUBTOTAL: 20,800$            
104
105
Glazing
106 No items in this section -                     
107 SUBTOTAL: -$                   
108
109
TOTAL, DIVISION 8 - DOORS AND WINDOWS $37,700
110
111 09 FINISHES
112
113 Lathing & Plastering - FSB
114 Misc. patch & plaster throughout 1300 sf 10.00 13,000               
115 SUBTOTAL: 13,000$             
116
117 Tiling - FSB
118 Patch etr floor finishes to match 663 sf 15.00 9,945                  
119 SUBTOTAL: 9,945$                
120
121
Gypsum Board Assemblies
122 Infill GWB wall 105 sf 35.00 3,675                  
123 SUBTOTAL: 3,675$                
124
125
Acoustical Ceilings
126 Remove and replace ACT ceiling (assumed) 1300 sf 6.00 7,800                 
127 SUBTOTAL: 7,800$               
128
129
Resilient Flooring
130 Allowance to patch floor finishes NIC
131 SUBTOTAL: -$                   
132
133
Painting - FSB
134 Prep and paint new and etr select walls 5640 sf 1.50 8,460                 
135 Misc. interior painting as req'd 1300 gsf 5.00 6,500                 
136 SUBTOTAL: 14,960$              
137
138
TOTAL, DIVISION 9 - FINISHES $49,380
139
140 10 SPECIALTIES
141
142 Signage
Bath Reno Backup Page 5 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 100===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA GFA 1,300
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT UNIT COST COST SUBTOTAL COST TOTAL COST
A- Accessible Toilets and Office Modifications SKA 3-6
143 Signage at doors 14 ea 200.00 2,800                 
144 Misc. ADA signage as req'd 1300 sf 1.20 1,560                  
145 SUBTOTAL: 4,360$               
146
147 Toilet and Shower Partitions
148 Toilet compartment, ADA 4 ea 2,500.00 10,000               
149 02. Toilet compartment, standard 6 ea 1,800.00 10,800               
150 SUBTOTAL: 20,800$            
151
152 Toilet & Bathroom Accessories
153 Mirror, framed 19 ea 200.00 3,800                 
154 Paper towel dispenser 11 ea 200.00 2,200                 
155 Soap dispenser 13 ea 50.00 650                     
156 Grab bars, pair 11 ea 400.00 4,400                 
157 Toilet paper holder, OFCI 4 ea 60.00 240                     
158 Coat Hook 9 ea 75.00 675                      
159 SUBTOTAL: 11,965$               
160
161 TOTAL, DIVISION 10 - SPECIALTIES $37,125
162
163
164 14 CONVEYING SYSTEMS
165
166 Conveying Systems - FSB
167 No items in this section -                     
168 SUBTOTAL -$                   
169
170
TOTAL, DIVISION 14
171
172 21 FIRE PROTECTION
173
174 Fire Protection - FSB
175 New sprinkler head with piping 5 ea 550.00 NIC
176 Drain and tap existing pipe 3 ea 600.00 NIC
177 Miscellaneous
178 Coordination & BIM 1                        ls 500.00 NIC
179 Coring, sleeves & fire stopping 1                        ls 500.00 NIC
180 Commissioning support 1                        ls 250.00 NIC
181 Recharge system 1                        ls 500.00 NIC
182 Fees & permits 1                        ls 150.00 NIC
183 SUBTOTAL -$                   
184
185
TOTAL, DIVISION 21
186
187 22 PLUMBING
188
189 Plumbing - FSB
190 Plumbing Fixtures & Specialties
191 Water closet 17                     ea 1,625.00 27,625                
192 Urinal 8                       ea 1,400.00 11,200                
193 Lavatory 18                     ea 1,165.00 20,970               
194 Mop basin 1                        ea 1,245.00 1,245                   
195 Floor drain 4                       ea 950.00 3,800                 
197 220000 Drinking Fountain - Bottle Filler (per narrative for CODE UPGRADE) NIC
197 Fixture rough in 1                        lf 6,484.00 6,484                  
198 Domestic Water  
199 Domestic water pipe with fittings & hangers 960                  lf 55.00 52,800               
200 Valves & accessories 1                        ls 5,280.00 5,280                  
201 Connection to existing pipe 1                        ls 2,640.00 2,640                  
202 Sanitary Waste And Vent Pipe  
203 Sanitary waste pipe with fittings & hangers 576                   lf 65.00 37,440               
204 Connection to existing pipe 1                        ls 1,872.00 1,872                  
205 Pipe Insulation  
206 Domestic water pipe insulation 960                  lf 12.00 11,520                 
207 Miscellaneous
Bath Reno Backup Page 6 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 101===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA GFA 1,300
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT UNIT COST COST SUBTOTAL COST TOTAL COST
A- Accessible Toilets and Office Modifications SKA 3-6
208 Demolition, remove fixtures and associated piping 1                        ls 11,200.00 11,200                
209 Coordination & BIM 1                        ls 2,500.00 NIC
210 Coring, sleeves & fire stopping 1                        ls 5,000.00 5,000                 
211 Commissioning support 1                        ls 1,200.00 NIC
212 Testing and sterilization 1                        ls 1,500.00 1,500                  
213 Fees & permits 1                        ls 3,008.64 3,009                 
214 SUBTOTAL 203,585$           
215
216 TOTAL, DIVISION 22 $203,585
217
218 23 HVAC
219
220 HVAC - FSB
221 No items in this section -                     
222 SUBTOTAL -$                   
223
224 TOTAL, DIVISION 23
225
226 26 ELECTRICAL
227
228
229 Electrical - FSB
230 Electrical
231 Allowance for misc. electrical devices that require modifications inc 
receptacles, lighting control devices and FA devices
1,300 gsf 10.00 13,000               
232 Temp power and lights 1 ls 1,500.00 1,500                  
233 Fees and permits 1 ls 500.00 500                     
234 SUBTOTAL 15,000$             
235
236 TOTAL, DIVISION 26 $15,000
237
238 SUBTOTAL RENOVATIONS $467,015
239
240 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
241
242
Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $70,052
243 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $18,681
244
245 SUBTOTAL $555,748
246
247
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
248 General Conditions 10.0% $55,575
249 General Requirements 5.0% $27,787
250 Winter Conditions excl
251 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $7,780
252 Bond 0.70% $3,890
253 Building Permit Waived
254 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $83,362
255
256
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $734,142
257
Bath Reno Backup Page 7 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 102===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
C- New ADA Lift and Music Room Vestibule 
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 025000 Structural 
5 No work assumed 
6 025000 Interior
7 025000 Remove floor finish 98 sf 6.00 588
8 025000 Remove concrete ramp/walls 98 sf 30.00 2,940
9 Remove door and frame 1 loc 200.00 200
10 Remove hand rails 43 lf 2.00 86
11 025000 Remove portion of CMU wall (assumes non structural) 225 sf 8.00 1,800
12 025000 Remove SOG at lift; prep for new 27 sf 35.00 945
13 025000 Remove cut and capped MEP equipment, fixtures & fittings 
including rooftop equipment removal 
150 gsf 5.00 750
14 Temporary protection / dust control 150 gsf 15.00 2,250
15 SUBTOTAL 9,559                  
16
17 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
18 Abatement of hazardous materials NIC
19 SUBTOTAL -                      
20
21 TOTAL - DEMOLITION $9,559
22
23
24
03 - CONCRETE
25
26
033000 CAST IN PLACE CONCRETE
27 New lift 
28 New 6" thick recessed (3") SOG at lift 26 sf 150.00 3,900
29 New SOG where old ramp was removed 59 sf 40.00 2,360
30 Floor leveling/ prep at new floor finishes 142 sf 5.00 710                      
31 SUBTOTAL 6,970                  
32
33 TOTAL - CONCRETE $6,970
34
35
36 04 - MASONRY
37
38 044000 MASONRY
39 025000 Wall X - 8" CMU 315 sf 50.00 15,750
40 SUBTOTAL 15,750                
41
42 TOTAL - MASONRY $15,750
43
44
45
05 - METALS
46
47
055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
48 New Lift 
49 No work assumed 
50 SUBTOTAL -                      
51
52 055000 METAL FABRICATIONS + STRUCTURAL STEEL
53 New guardrails 7 lf 425.00 2,975
54 New wall handrails 8 lf 200.00 1,600
55 055000 Miscellaneous metals @ interior spaces including support for cmu 
partition and new lift 
1 ls 500.00 500
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 8 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 103===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
C- New ADA Lift and Music Room Vestibule 
56 SUBTOTAL 5,075                  
57
58 TOTAL - METALS $5,075
59
60
61
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
62
63 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
64 061000 Wood blocking throughout 1 ls 250.00 250
65 Frame new steps 25 lf 65.00 1,625
66 New framed landing 51 sf 45.00 2,295
67 SUBTOTAL 4,170                  
68
69 064020 ARCHITECTURAL WOODWORK
70 No work assumed 
71 SUBTOTAL -                      
72
73 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $4,170
74
75
76
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
77
78
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
79 070001 Miscellaneous sealants throughout building 1 ls 250.00 250
80 SUBTOTAL 250                     
81
82
078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
83 078400 Fire stopping patch 1 ls 1,000.00 1,000                  
84 SUBTOTAL 1,000                  
85
86
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $1,250
87
88
89 08 - OPENINGS
90
91
081416 FLUSH WOOD DOORS
92 Doors/Frames - Interior
93 081416 Single frame/Flush wood door 1 ea 1,500.00 1,500
94 081416 Door Installation
95 081416 Single leaf door and hardware 1 lvs 400.00 400
96 081416 Single leaf door frame 1 lvs 200.00 200
97 SUBTOTAL 2,100                  
98
99
083100 ACCESS DOORS AND FRAMES
100 083100 Access doors 1 ls 1,000.00 NIC
101 SUBTOTAL -                      
102
103
085200 WINDOWS
104 85200 No work assumed 
105 SUBTOTAL -                      
106
107
087100 DOOR HARDWARE 
108 087100 Interior door hardware 1 leaf 1,200.00 1,200
109 SUBTOTAL 1,200                  
110
111 TOTAL -  OPENINGS $3,300
112
113
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 9 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 104===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
C- New ADA Lift and Music Room Vestibule 
114 09 - FINISHES
115
116 090003 ACT
117 064100 Allowance to remove and reinstall ACT Ceiling 150 sf 10.00 1,500                  
118 SUBTOTAL 1,500                  
119
120
090005 RESILIENT FLOORS
121 Flooring, rubber 142 sf 15.00 2,130                  
122 Flooring, rubber treads and risers 22 lfr 45.00 990                     
123 Vinyl base 81 lf 2.00 162                      
124 SUBTOTAL 3,282                  
125
126
090007 PAINTING
127 090007 Paint new and etr walls 975 sf 1.50 1,463                  
128 090007 Interior painting/touch-up 150 gsf 5.00 75 0                     
129 SUBTOTAL 2,213                  
130
131
092900 GWB
132 092900 No work assumed 
133 SUBTOTAL -                      
134
135
TOTAL -  FINISHES $6,995
136
137
138
10 - SPECIALTIES
139
140 101400 SIGNAGE
141 New code sign 1 ls 500.00 500                     
142 SUBTOTAL 500                     
143
144 TOTAL -  SPECIALTIES $500
145
146
147
14 - CONVEYING SYSTEMS
148
149 144000 ELEVATORS
150 142400 New chair lift (36" rise) 1 ea 45,000.00 45,000               
151 SUBTOTAL 45,000               
152
153 TOTAL -  CONVEYING $45,000
154
155
156
21 - FIRE SUPPRESSION
157
158 210000 FIRE SUPPRESSION
159 Allowance to modify FP 150 sf 12.00 1,800
160 SUBTOTAL 1,800                  
161
162
TOTAL - FIRE SUPPRESSION $1,800
163
164
165 22 - PLUMBING
166
167 220000 PLUMBING
168 220000 Equipment
169 220000 No work assumed 
170 SUBTOTAL -                      
171
172 TOTAL - PLUMBING
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 10 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 105===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
C- New ADA Lift and Music Room Vestibule 
173
174
175 23 - HVAC
176
177 230000 HVAC
178 230000 HVAC Equipment
179 230000 Allowance to modify existing 150 sf 10.00 1,500
180 SUBTOTAL 1,500                  
181
182 TOTAL - HVAC $1,500
183
184
185 26 - ELECTRICAL
186
187 260000 ELECTRICAL
199
200 GEAR & DISTRIBUTION
201 Equipment wiring
202 Lift feed and connection 1 ea 7,500.00 7,500
203 260000 SUBTOTAL 7,500                  
188 260000
189 LIGHTING & POWER
190 Allowance to remove and reinstall lights 150 sf 15.00 2,250
191 260000 SUBTOTAL 2,250                  
192
193 COMMUNICATION & SECURITY SYSTEMS
194 Telecommunications
195 No work assumed 
196 Fire alarm system
197 Allowance to modify fire alarm 150 sf 15.00 2,250
198 SUBTOTAL 2,250                  
216 OTHER ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
217 Common Work Results for Electrical:
218 Coordination support, testing, patching, seismic, etc. 1 ls 300.00 300
219 Fees and permits 1 ls 150.00 150
220 SUBTOTAL 450                     
221
222 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $12,450
223
224
225
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
226
227 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
228
229 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $17,148
230 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $4,573
231
232 SUBTOTAL $136,040
233
234
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
235 General Conditions 10.0% $13,604
236 General Requirements 5.0% $6,802
237 Winter Conditions excl
238 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $1,905
239 Bond 0.70% $952
240 Building Permit Waived
241 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $20,406
242
233
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $179,709
$114,319
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 11 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 106===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 20,090
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
B- Roof Replacement  
2
3 05 - METALS
4
5 055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
6 Roof work
7 055000 Allowance to repair 5% of roof deck 2,405 sf 15.00 36,075
8 SUBTOTAL 36,075                
9
10 TOTAL - METALS $36,075
11
12
13 06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
14
15 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
16 061000 New rough blocking at roof 2,469 lf 15.00 37,035
17 SUBTOTAL 37,035                
18
19 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $37,035
20
21
22
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
23
24
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
25 070001 Miscellaneous sealants throughout new roof 48,100 sf 0.25 12,025
26 SUBTOTAL 12,025                
27
28
070002 ROOFING AND FLASHING
29 Demo 
30 Demo Access Hatch 1 ea 400.00 400
31 Demo Condensers/frame 2 ea 500.00 1,000
32 Demo/store EF for reinstall 18 ea 75.00 1,350
33 Demo expansion joint 137 lf 5.00 685
34 Demo gutter 278 lf 3.00 834
35 Demo Plumbing vent 15 ea
36 Demo RD 13 ea 25.00 325
37 Demo Roof membrane and insulation (no HAZ MAT $ considered) 48,100 sf 4.00 192,400
38 Demo roof edge 2,083 lf 5.00 10,415
39 Demo roof to wall 249 lf 5.00 1,245
40 Demo Snow guard 163 lf 10.00 1,630
41 Demo solar panels 8,687 sf TBD
42 Demo 
43 New Roof type 1- EPDM mech. Fastened, coverboard, 4.5" 
insulation, vapor barrier 
19,398 sf 27.00 523,746
44 New Roof type 2A- EPDM adhered, coverboard, 4.5" insulation, 
vapor barrier; sloped 
9,558 sf 29.00 277,182
45 New Roof type 2B- EPDM adhered, coverboard, 4.5" insulation, 
vapor barrier 
17,246 sf 26.00 448,396
46 New Roof type 3- EPDM adhered, coverboard 1,446 sf 21.50 31,089
47 Misc. Roofing 
48 New flashing at condensers frames 2 ea 500.00 1,000 Logan $250
49 New flashing at EF 18 ea 50.00 900 Logan $250
50 New expansion joint 137 lf 55.00 7,535
51 New gutter 278 lf 3.00 834
52 Extend Plumbing vent 15 ea 300.00 NIC
53 New roof strainer, insulation and flashing at roof drain 17 ea 800.00 13,600 Logan
54 New roof edge; 2 part gravel stop w/ extended fascia; includes 
mineral wool
2,083 lf 40.00 83,320
55 New roof to wall flashing 249 lf 40.00 9,960
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 12 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 107===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 20,090
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
B- Roof Replacement  
56 New Snow guard 163 lf 150.00 24,450
57 New solar panels TBD
58 SUBTOTAL 1,632,296          
59
60 078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
61 078400 No work assumed 
62 SUBTOTAL -                      
63
64
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $1,644,321
65
66
67 08 - OPENINGS
68
69
083100 ACCESS DOORS AND FRAMES
70 083100 New Access Hatch 1 ea 3,500.00 3,500
71 SUBTOTAL 3,500                  
72
73 TOTAL -  OPENINGS $3,500
74
75
76
21 - FIRE SUPPRESSION
77
78 210000 FIRE SUPPRESSION
79 No work assumed 
80 SUBTOTAL -                      
81
82 TOTAL - FIRE SUPPRESSION
83
84
85
22 - PLUMBING
86
87 220000 PLUMBING
88 220000 Roof drain connections 13 ea 500.00 6,500
89 SUBTOTAL 6,500                 
90
91 TOTAL - PLUMBING $6,500
92
93
94 23 - HVAC
95
96 230000 HVAC
97 230000 No work assumed 
98 SUBTOTAL -                      
99
100 TOTAL - HVAC
101
102
103
26 - ELECTRICAL
104
105 260000 ELECTRICAL
106
107 GEAR & DISTRIBUTION
108 Equipment wiring
109 Disconnect and reconnect EF 2 ea 300.00 600
110 Disconnect and reconnect condensers 18 ea 250.00 4,500
121 Photovoltaics
122 Remove existing PV system 1 ls 25,000.00 25,000
113 260000 SUBTOTAL 30,100               
114
115 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $30,100
116
117
118
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
119
$1,757,531
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 13 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 108===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 20,090
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COS T TOTAL COST
B- Roof Replacement  
120 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
121
122 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $263,630
123 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $70,301
124
125
SUBTOTAL $2,091,462
126
127
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
128 General Conditions 10.0% $209,146
129 General Requirements 5.0% $104,573
130 Winter Conditions excl
131 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $29,280
132 Bond 0.70% $14,640
133 Building Permit Waived
134 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $313,719
135
136
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $2,762,820
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 14 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 109===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 64,886
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
D- Windows Replacement Exterior A1.1 & A2.0
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 Exterior
5 Demo and remove window 5,501 sf 5.00 27,505
6 Demo and remove doors 9 loc 300.00 2,700
6 025000 Interior
7 025000 Miscellaneous demolition; trim/ gwb, window blinds etc. 5,501 sf 4.00 22,004
8 Temporary protection of existing 5,501 sf 3.00 16,503
9 SUBTOTAL 68,712                
10
11 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
12 Allowance for haz mat abatement at windows 5,501 sf 14.00 77,014
13 SUBTOTAL 77,014                
14
15 TOTAL - DEMOLITION $145,726
16
28
29
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
30
31 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
32 061000 Misc. wood blocking/repairs at window surrounds 3,274 lf 10.00 32,740
33 SUBTOTAL 32,740                
34
35 064020 ARCHITECTURAL WOODWORK
36 Allowance for new sill 846 lf 55.00 46,530
37 Allowance for misc. trim work 2,428 lf 5.00 12,140
38 SUBTOTAL 58,670               
39
40 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $91,410
41
42
43
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
44
45
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
46 070001 New exterior sealants 3,274 lf 12.00 39,288
47 070001 New interior sealants 3,274 lf 5.00 16,370
48 SUBTOTAL 55,658                
49
50
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $55,658
51
52
53 08 - OPENINGS
54
55
081416 FIBERGLASS DOORS
56 Doors
57 081416 Single glazed 3 ea 3,000.00 9,000
58 Double glazed 6 dbl 6,000.00 36,000
59 081416 Door Installation
60 081416 Single leaf door and hardware 3 ea 200.00 600
61 081416 Double leaf door and hardware 6 dbl 400.00 2,400
62 SUBTOTAL 48,000               
63
64 085200 WINDOWS
65 85200 New double-paned aluminum window w/ operable awning and 
screen w/ laminated glass @ A
1,845 sf 190.00 350,550
66 85200 New double-paned aluminum curtain wall; B,C,J,F,D,H 2,648 sf 200.00 529,600
67 85200 New Kalwall 914 sf 130.00 118,820
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 15 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 110===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 64,886
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
D- Windows Replacement Exterior A1.1 & A2.0
68 85200 Premium for metal panel at CW 213 sf 45.00 9,585
69 SUBTOTAL 1,008,555          
70
71 087100 DOOR HARDWARE 
72 087100 Exterior door hardware 15 leaf 1,400.00 21,000
73 SUBTOTAL 21,000               
74
75
089000 LOUVERS 
76 064100 New louver in window frame 94 sf 100.00 9,400
77 SUBTOTAL 9,400                 
78
79 TOTAL -  OPENINGS $1,086,955
80
81
82
09 - FINISHES
83
84 090007 PAINTING
85 090007 Interior painting/touch-up at new windows allowance 3,274 lf 5.00 16,370                
86 SUBTOTAL 16,370                
87
88
092900 GWB
89 092900 Interior Partitions
90 092900 Patching existing interior walls disturbed by new windows NIC
91 SUBTOTAL -                      
92
93
TOTAL -  FINISHES $16,370
94
95
96
12 - FURNISHINGS
97
98 122410 WINDOW TREATMENT
99 122100 New roller shades at all windows 3,562 sf 10.00 35,620
100 SUBTOTAL 35,620               
101
102
TOTAL -  FURNISHINGS $35,620
103
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
107 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
108
109 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $214,761
110 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $57,270
111
112 SUBTOTAL $1,703,770
113
114
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
115 General Conditions 10.0% $170,377
116 General Requirements 5.0% $85,189
107 Winter Conditions excl
108 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $23,853
109 Bond 0.70% $11,926
110 Building Permit Waived
111 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $255,566
112
113
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $2,250,681
$1,431,739
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 16 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 111===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
E- Misc. ADA Work
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 025000 Structural 
5 No work assumed 
6 025000 Interior
7 Remove door and frame w/ sidelight 2 loc 250.00 500
8 Remove door and frame 2 loc 200.00 400
9 Remove existing lift 1 loc 1,000.00 1,000
10 Remove casework 44 lf 15.00 660
11 025000 Remove door leaf only 8 leaf 50.00 400
12 Temporary protection / dust control/misc. demo 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
13 SUBTOTAL 7,960                  
14
15 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
16 Abatement of hazardous materials NIC
17 SUBTOTAL -                      
18
19 TOTAL - DEMOLITION $7,960
20
21
22
03 - CONCRETE
23
24
033000 CAST IN PLACE CONCRETE
25 See sitework -                      
26 SUBTOTAL -                      
27
28 TOTAL - CONCRETE
29
30
31 04 - MASONRY
32
33 044000 MASONRY
34 025000 No work assumed 
35 SUBTOTAL -                      
36
37 TOTAL - MASONRY
38
39
40
05 - METALS
41
42
055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
43 No work assumed 
44 SUBTOTAL -                      
45
46 055000 METAL FABRICATIONS + STRUCTURAL STEEL
47 New wall handrails 60 lf 200.00 12,000
48 SUBTOTAL 12,000               
49
50
TOTAL - METALS $12,000
51
52
53
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
54
55 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
56 061000 Wood blocking allowance 1 ls 5,040.00 5,040
57 SUBTOTAL 5,040                 
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 17 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 112===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
E- Misc. ADA Work
58
59 064020 ARCHITECTURAL WOODWORK
60 No work assumed 
61 SUBTOTAL -                      
62
63 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $5,040
64
65
66
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
67
68
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
69 070001 Miscellaneous sealants throughout building 1 ls 1,000.00 1,000
70 SUBTOTAL 1,000                  
71
72
078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
73 078400 Fire stopping patch 1 ls 1,000.00 1,000                  
74 SUBTOTAL 1,000                  
75
76
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $2,000
77
78
79 08 - OPENINGS
80
81
081416 FLUSH WOOD DOORS
82 Doors/Frames - Interior
83 081416 Single frame/Flush wood door 1 ea 1,500.00 1,500
84 081416 Double frame/Flush wood door 6 ea 3,000.00 18,000
85 081416 Door Installation
86 081416 Single leaf door and hardware 13 lvs 400.00 5,200
87 081416 Door frame 7 ea 250.00 1,750
88 SUBTOTAL 26,450               
89
90
083100 ACCESS DOORS AND FRAMES
91 083100 Access doors 1 ls 1,000.00 NIC
92 SUBTOTAL -                      
93
94
085200 WINDOWS
95 85200 No work assumed 
96 SUBTOTAL -                      
97
98
087100 DOOR HARDWARE 
99 087100 Interior door hardware 13 leaf 1,200.00 15,600
100 SUBTOTAL 15,600                
101
102 TOTAL -  OPENINGS $42,050
103
104
105 09 - FINISHES
106
107
090003 ACT
108 064100 Allowance to remove and reinstall ACT Ceiling 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000                 
109 SUBTOTAL 5,000                 
110
111
090005 RESILIENT FLOORS
112 Patch etr flooring 100 sf 20.00 2,000                 
113 SUBTOTAL 2,000                 
114
115
090007 PAINTING
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 18 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 113===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
E- Misc. ADA Work
116 090007 Interior painting/touch-up 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000                 
117 SUBTOTAL 5,000                 
118
119 092900 GWB
120 092900 Infill GWB walls 840 sf 25.00 21,000
121 092900 Misc. patch and repair 1 ls 2,000.00 2,000
122 SUBTOTAL 23,000               
123
124
TOTAL -  FINISHES $35,000
125
126
127
10 - SPECIALTIES
128
129 101400 SIGNAGE
130 New code sign 1 ls 2,000.00 2,000                 
131 SUBTOTAL 2,000                 
132
133 TOTAL -  SPECIALTIES $2,000
134
135
136
14 - CONVEYING SYSTEMS
137
138 144000 ELEVATORS
139 142400 New chair lift (36" rise) 1 ea 45,000.00 45,000               
140 SUBTOTAL 45,000               
141
142 TOTAL -  CONVEYING $45,000
143
144
145
21 - FIRE SUPPRESSION
146
147 210000 FIRE SUPPRESSION
148 Allowance to modify FP NIC
149 SUBTOTAL -                      
150
151
TOTAL - FIRE SUPPRESSION
152
153
154
22 - PLUMBING
155
156
220000 PLUMBING
157 220000 Equipment
158 220000 Remove sink, cut and cap utilities 4 loc 600.00 2, 400
159 SUBTOTAL 2,400                 
160
161 TOTAL - PLUMBING $2,400
162
163
164
23 - HVAC
165
166 230000 HVAC
167 230000 HVAC Equipment
168 230000 Allowance to modify existing 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
169 SUBTOTAL 5,000                 
170
171 TOTAL - HVAC $5,000
172
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 19 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 114===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
E- Misc. ADA Work
173
174 26 - ELECTRICAL
175
176 260000 ELECTRICAL
177
178 Allowance for misc., work at new lift 1 ls 7,500.00 7,500
179 SUBTOTAL 7,500                  
180
181 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $7,500
182
183
184
31 - EARTHWORK
185
186 310000 EARTHWORK
187 Mics. prep for new landings and patio 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
188 SUBTOTAL 5,000                 
189
190
TOTAL - EARTHWORK $5,000
191
192
193
32 - SITE IMPROVEMENTS
194
195 320000 SITE IMPROVEMENTS
196 Exterior
197 Remove pea stone patio at patio and prep for new 97 sf 5.00 485                     
198 Remove concrete landings and prep for new 7 loc 500.00 3,500                 
199 New Concrete Landings and Patio 
200 5'x6' concrete landing 2 ea 2,250.00 4,500
201 5'x8' concrete landing 6 ea 3,000.00 18,000
202 New concrete patio 97 sf 40.00 3,880                 
203 SUBTOTAL 30,365               
204
205 TOTAL - SITE IMPROVEMENTS $30,365
206
207
208
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
209
210 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
211
212 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $30,197
213 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $8,053
214
215 SUBTOTAL $239,565
216
217
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
218 General Conditions 10.0% $23,957
219 General Requirements 5.0% $11,978
220 Winter Conditions excl
221 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $3,354
222 Bond 0.70% $1,677
223 Building Permit Waived
224 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $35,935
225
227
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $316,466
$201,315
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 20 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 115===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
F- Option #1 MEP Options 
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 025000 No work assumed 
5 SUBTOTAL -                      
6
7 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
8 Abatement of hazardous materials NIC
9 SUBTOTAL -                      
10
11 TOTAL - DEMOLITION
12
13
14
05 - METALS
15
16 055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
17 No work assumed
18 SUBTOTAL -                      
19
20 055000 METAL FABRICATIONS + STRUCTURAL STEEL
21 055000 No work assumed 
22 SUBTOTAL -                      
23
24 TOTAL - METALS
25
26
27
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
28
29 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
30 061000 No work assumed 
31 SUBTOTAL -                      
32
33 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
34
35
36
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
37
38
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
39 070001 No work assumed 
40 SUBTOTAL -                      
41
42 070002 ROOFING AND FLASHING
43 070002 No work assumed 
44 SUBTOTAL -                      
45
46
078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
47 078400 Fire stopping allowance at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384                
48 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
49
50
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $16,384
51
52
53 09 - FINISHES
54
55
090003 ACT
56 064100 No work assumed 
57 SUBTOTAL -                      
58
59
090007 PAINTING
60 090007 No work assumed 
61 SUBTOTAL -                      
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 21 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 116===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
F- Option #1 MEP Options 
62
63 092900 GWB
64 092900 No work assumed 
65 SUBTOTAL -                      
66
67 TOTAL -  FINISHES
68
69
70
21 - FIRE SUPPRESSION
71
72 210000 FIRE SUPPRESSION
73 ##### No work assumed 
74 SUBTOTAL -                      
75
76 TOTAL - FIRE SUPPRESSION
77
78
79
22 - PLUMBING
80
81 220000 PLUMBING
82 220000 No work assumed 
#REF! SUBTOTAL -                      
#REF!
#REF! TOTAL - PLUMBING
#REF!
#REF!
#REF!
23 - HVAC
#REF!
#REF! 230000 HVAC
91 230000 OPTION 1 - OR BASE OPTION
92 230000 REPLACEMENT OF H&V EQUIPMENT
93 230000 MINIMAL HVAC SCOPE
94 230000 HVAC Equipment
95 230000 Fin tube replacement 210 lf 150.00 31,500
96 230000 Air distribution 
97 230000 HV-1, Kitchen 1 ea 88,000.00 88,000
98 230000 HV-,2, Cafetorium 1 ea 105,000.00 105,000
99 230000 HV-3, Boiler room 1 ea 120,000.00 120,000
100 230000 HV-4, Gym 1 ea 66,800.00 66,800
101 230000 Kitchen MAU 1 ea 45,000.00 45,000
102 230000 Curb(s) 5 ea 5,500.00 27,500
103 230000 Sheet metal & Accessories
104 Sheet metal & accessories - connect to existing 5 ea 9,500.00 47,500
105 Kitchen exhaust 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
106 Duct insulation/wrap/lining 3 sf 6.00 18
107 230000 HVAC Piping  
108 230000 HVAC distribution piping with fittings & hangers 65,535 gsf 0.35 22,937
109 230000 Automatic Temperature Controls 
110 230000 Stand alone controls, wiring & thermostats 65,353 gsf 0.50 32,677
111 230000 System testing and balancing 65,353 gsf 0.10 6,535
112 Miscellaneous
113 Demolition of existing HVAC systems, cut, cap, make safe 65,353 gsf 0.40 26,141
114 Coordination & management/project support 65,353 gsf 1.00 65,353
115 Coring, sleeves & fire stopping 1 ls 6,000.00 6,000
116 Equipment start-up and inspection 1 ls 9,200.00 9,200
117 Rigging & equipment rental 1 ls 35,000.00 35,000
118 Permits & fees 1 ls 11,229.92 11,230
119 SUBTOTAL 791,391              
120
121 TOTAL - HVAC $791,391
122
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 22 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 117===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
F- Option #1 MEP Options 
123
124 26 - ELECTRICAL
125
126 260000 ELECTRICAL
127
128 GEAR & DISTRIBUTION
129 Normal power gear and distribution
130 1200A  120/208V switchboard 1 ea 90,000.00 90,000
131 Replace existing panelboard with new 13 ea 3,500.00 45,500
132 Extend existing circuits as necessary 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
133 Emergency power gear and distribution
134 50KW diesel generator 1 ea 25,000.00 25,000
135 200A 120/208V 3pole  ATS 1 ea 5,500.00 5,500
136 200A feed 150 lf 58.00 8,700
137 Grounding 1 ls 3,500.00 3,500
138 Equipment wiring
139 230000 HV feed and connection feed and connection 6 ea 1,200.00 7,200
140 230000 Kitchen MAU feed and connection 1 ea 3,000.00 3,000
141 260000 SUBTOTAL 233,400             
142 260000
143 LIGHTING & POWER
144 No work the Section
145 260000 SUBTOTAL -                      
146
147 COMMUNICATION & SECURITY SYSTEMS
148 No work the Section
149 SUBTOTAL -                      
150
151 OTHER ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
152 Demolition
153 Demo and make-safe 1 ls 15,000.00 15,000
154 Common Work Results for Electrical:
155 Coordination support, testing, patching, seismic, etc. 1 ls 6,250.00 6,250
156 Fees and permits 1 ls 3,100.00 3,100
157 SUBTOTAL 24,350               
158
159 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $257,750
160
161
162
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
163
164 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
165
166 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $159,829
167 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $42,621
168
169 SUBTOTAL $1,267,975
170
171
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
172 General Conditions 10.0% $126,798
173 General Requirements 5.0% $63,399
174 Winter Conditions excl
175 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $17,752
176 Bond 0.70% $8,876
177 Building Permit Waived
178 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $190,196
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $1,674,996
$1,065,525
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 23 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 118===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
G- Option #2 MEP Options 
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 025000 Miscellaneous demolition for new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
5 025000 Remove cut and capped MEP equipment, fixtures & fittings 
including rooftop equipment removal 
65,535 gsf 0.75 49,151
6 Temporary protection of existing 65,535 gsf 1.00 65,535
7 SUBTOTAL 131,070              
8
9 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
10 Abatement of hazardous materials NIC
11 SUBTOTAL -                      
12
13 TOTAL - DEMOLITION $131,070
14
15
16 05 - METALS
17
18
055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
19 No work assumed
20 SUBTOTAL -                      
21
22 055000 METAL FABRICATIONS + STRUCTURAL STEEL
23 055000 Miscellaneous metals @ interior spaces including support for new 
MEP work 
65,535 gsf 0.50 32,768
24 SUBTOTAL 32,768                
25
26
TOTAL - METALS $32,768
27
28
29
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
30
31 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
32 061000 Wood blocking at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
33 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
34
35 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $16,384
36
37
38
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
39
40
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
41 070001 Miscellaneous sealants at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
42 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
43
44
070002 ROOFING AND FLASHING
45 070002 Roof work allowance at new MEP work 1 ls 10,000.00 10,000               
46 SUBTOTAL 10,000               
47
48
078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
49 078400 Fire stopping allowance at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384                
50 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
51
52
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $42,768
53
54
55 09 - FINISHES
56
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 24 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 119===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
G- Option #2 MEP Options 
57 090003 ACT
58 064100 Allowance to remove and reinstall ACT for new MEP- allows for 
some new ACT tiles 
65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070              
59 SUBTOTAL 131,070              
60
61 090007 PAINTING
62 090007 Interior painting/touch-up 65,535 gsf 0.50 32,768               
63 SUBTOTAL 32,768                
64
65
092900 GWB
66 092900 Patch and repair existing interior GWB disturbed by new MEP work 
including infills
65,535 gsf 1.00 65,535                
67 SUBTOTAL 65,535                
68
69
TOTAL -  FINISHES $229,373
70
71
72
23 - HVAC
73
74 230000 HVAC
75 230000 OPTION 2 - COMBINATION BOILER / VRF
76 230000 REPLACEMENT OF STEAM/HW SYSTEMS
77 230000 HVAC Equipment
78 230000 Viessman natural gas, condensing steam boilers (8) 4,240 mbh 46.00 195,040
79 230000 Condensate receiver, duplex pump set 1 ea 22,500.00 22,500
80 230000 Feedwater return pump 1 ea 11,500.00 11,500
81 230000 Condensate blow down separator 1 ea 15,000.00 15,000
82 230000 Heat exchangers 2 ea 35,000.00 70,000
83 230000 Expansion tank 2 ls 8,600.00 17,200
84 230000 Air separator 2 ls 7,400.00 14,800
85 230000 Base mounted pumps w/ vfd 1 ls 125,000.00 125,000
86 230000 Steam unit heater (boiler room) 1 ea 4,500.00 4,500
87 230000 Air compressor (pneumatic controls) 1 ea 17,500.00 17,500
88 230000 Classroom Fan Coil Units - UV Equipment 31 ea 4,000.00 124,000
89 230000 Phys Ed & Shop UV's 4 ea 4,200.00 16,800
90 230000 Fin tube 210 lf 150.00 31,500
91 230000 Split systems 6 ea 12,500.00 75,000
92 230000 Air distribution 
93 230000 HV-1, Kitchen 1 ea 88,000.00 88,000
94 230000 HV-,2, Cafetorium 1 ea 105,000.00 105,000
95 230000 HV-3, Boiler room 1 ea 120,000.00 120,000
96 230000 HV-4, Gym 1 ea 66,800.00 66,800
97 230000 HV-5, Girl's locker 1 ea 29,700.00 29,700
98 230000 HV-6, Boy's locker 1 ea 28,260.00 28,260
99 230000 Kitchen MAU 1 ea 45,000.00 45,000
100 230000 Curb(s) 7 ea 5,500.00 38,500
101 230000 Sheet metal & Accessories
102 Sheet metal & accessories - heating/cooling 38,932 lbs 18.00 700,776
103 Kitchen exhaust 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
104 Duct insulation/wrap/lining 23,359 sf 6.00 140,154
105 RGD's 65,535 gsf 0.75 49,151
106 Sound attenuation 1 ls 28,031.04 28,031
107 Sheet metal misc. accessories 1 ls 17,519.40 17,519
108 SS Boiler breeching 1 ls 25,000.00 25,000
109 Louvers & motorized dampers 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
110 230000 Exhaust Fans
111 230000 EF-1 thru 21 21 ea 1,800.00 37,800
112 230000 HVAC Piping  
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 25 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 120===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
G- Option #2 MEP Options 
113 230000 HVAC distribution piping with fittings & hangers 65,535 gsf 7.00 458,745
114 230000 Boiler Room Steam/HW Piping Connections & headers 1 ls 75,000.00 75,000
115 230000 Refrigeration Piping
116 230000 Refrigeration piping with fittings & hangers 1,080 lf 55.00 59,400
117 230000 Condensate Drain Piping
118 230000 Condensate drain piping with fittings & hangers 702 lf 35.00 24,570
119 230000 Piping Insulation 
120 230000 Piping insulation 65,535 gsf 2.75 180,221
121 230000 Automatic Temperature Controls 
122 230000 Automatic temperature controls - includes BMS 65,535 gsf 7.00 458,745
123 230000 System testing and balancing 65,535 gsf 1.00 65,535
124 Miscellaneous
125 Demolition of existing HVAC systems, cut, cap, make safe 65,535 gsf 0.75 49,151
126 Coordination & management/project support 65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070
127 Refrigerant reclaim 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
128 Seismic supports, vibration control, spring isolation 1 ls 15,000.00 15,000
129 Coring, sleeves & fire stopping 1 ls 6,000.00 6,000
130 Equipment start-up and inspection 1 ls 9,200.00 9,200
131 Rigging & equipment rental 1 ls 35,000.00 35,000
132 Permits & fees 1 ls 58,240.02 58,240
#REF! SUBTOTAL 3,940,908         
#REF!
#REF! TOTAL - HVAC $3,940,908
#REF!
#REF!
#RE
F! 26 - ELECTRICAL
#REF!
#REF! 260000 ELECTRICAL
141 GEAR & DISTRIBUTION
142 Sitework
143 Upgrade existing secondary service allow 1 ls 50,000.00 50,000
144 Normal power gear and distribution
145 1600A  120/208V switchboard 1 ea 100,000.00 100,000
146 Replace existing panelboard with new 13 ea 3,500.00 45,500
147 Extend existing circuits as necessary 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
148 Emergency power gear and distribution
149 100KW diesel generator 1 ea 50,000.00 50,000
150 400A 120/208V 3pole  ATS 1 ea 8,500.00 8,500
151 400A feed 150 lf 156.00 23,400
152 Grounding 1 ls 4,500.00 4,500
153 Equipment wiring
154 230000 Viessman natural gas, condensing steam boilers (8) feed and 
connection
8 ea 1,200.00 9,600
155 230000 Condensate receiver, duplex pump set feed and connection 1 ea 1,500.00 1,500
156 230000 Feedwater return pump feed and connection 1 ea 1,500.00 1,500
157 230000 Heat exchangers feed and connection 2 ea 1,200.00 2,400
158 230000 Base mounted pumps w/ vfd feed and connection 1 ea 1,500.00 1,500
159 230000 Steam unit heater (boiler room) feed and connection 1 ea 1,100.00 1,100
160 230000 Air compressor (pneumatic controls) feed and connection 1 ea 2,500.00 2,500
161 230000 Classroom Fan Coil Units (ILO Unit Ventilators) feed and 
ti
31 ea 750.00 23,250
162 230000 Phys Ed & Shop UV's feed and connection 4 ea 1,200.00 4,800
163 230000 Split systems feed and connection 6 ea 1,500.00 9,000
164 230000 HV feed and connection 7 ea 1,200.00 8,400
165 230000 Kitchen MAU feed and connection 1 ea 3,000.00 3,000
166 260000 SUBTOTAL 395,450             
167 260000
168 LIGHTING & POWER
169 Light Fixtures
170 Replace existing lighting w/ LED fixtures 660 ea 375.00 247,500
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 26 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 121===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
G- Option #2 MEP Options 
171 Lighting control
172 New low voltage lighting control system 65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070
173 Branch devices
174 Replace all existing receptacles w/commercial grade 65,535 gsf 0.60 39,321
175 Lighting & branch circuitry
176 Extend or replace existing circuitry as necessary due to lighting and 
branch scope of work
65,535 gsf 1.50 98,303
177 260000 SUBTOTAL 516,194              
178
179 COMMUNICATION & SECURITY SYSTEMS
180 Telecommunications
181 No work this section
182
183 Fire alarm system
184 No work this section
185 SUBTOTAL -                      
186
187
OTHER ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
188 Demolition
189 Demo and make-safe 1 ls 40,000.00 40,000
190 Common Work Results for Electrical:
191 Coordination support, testing, patching, seismic, etc. 1 ls 30,000.00 30,000
192 Fees and permits 1 ls 15,000.00 15,000
193 SUBTOTAL 85,000               
194
195 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $996,644
196
197
198
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
199
200 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
201
202 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $740,633
203 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $197,502
204
205 SUBTOTAL $5,875,687
206
207
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
208 General Conditions 10.0% $587,569
209 General Requirements 5.0% $293,784
210 Winter Conditions excl
211 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $82,260
223 Bond 0.70% $41,130
224 Building Permit Waived
215 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $881,353
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $7,761,783
$4,937,552
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 27 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 122===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
H- Option # 3 MEP Options 
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 025000 Miscellaneous demolition for new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
5 025000 Remove cut and capped MEP equipment, fixtures & fittings 
including rooftop equipment removal 
65,535 gsf 0.75 49,151
6 025000 Demo plaster board ceiling and framing in select areas; prep for 
ACT
25,000 sf 8.00 200,000
7 Temporary protection of existing 65,535 gsf 5.00 327,675
8 SUBTOTAL 593,210              
9
10 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
11 Abatement of hazardous materials NIC
12 SUBTOTAL -                      
13
14 TOTAL - DEMOLITION $593,210
15
16
17 05 - METALS
18
19
055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
20 No work assumed
21 SUBTOTAL -                      
22
23 055000 METAL FABRICATIONS + STRUCTURAL STEEL
24 055000 Miscellaneous metals @ interior spaces including support for new 
MEP work 
65,535 gsf 3.00 196,605
25 SUBTOTAL 196,605             
26
27
TOTAL - METALS $196,605
28
29
30
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
31
32 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
33 061000 Wood blocking at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
34 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
35
36 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $16,384
37
38
39
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
40
41
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
42 070001 Miscellaneous sealants at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
43 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
44
45
070002 ROOFING AND FLASHING
46 070002 Roof work allowance at new MEP work 1 ls 10,000.00 10,000               
47 SUBTOTAL 10,000               
48
49
078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
50 078400 Fire stopping allowance at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384                
51 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
52
53
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $42,768
54
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 28 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 123===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
H- Option # 3 MEP Options 
55
56 09 - FINISHES
57
58 090003 ACT
59 064100 Allowance to remove and reinstall new ACT related to new MEP 25,535 sf 11.00 280,885             
60 064100 Allowance to remove tectum ceiling panels and replace with ACT 15,000 sf No work assumed 
61 064100 New ACT where GWB ceilings where framed plaster ceiling was 
located 
25,000 sf 9.00 225,000             
62 SUBTOTAL 505,885             
63
64
090007 PAINTING
65 090007 Interior painting/touch-up 25,535 gsf 0.50 12,768                
66 SUBTOTAL 12,768                
67
68
092900 GWB
69 092900 Patch and repair existing interior GWB disturbed by new MEP work 
including infills
25,535 gsf 1.00 25,535                
70 SUBTOTAL 25,535                
71
72
TOTAL -  FINISHES $544,188
73
74
75
23 - HVAC
76
77 230000 HVAC
78 230000 FULLY ELECTRIC / VRF SYSTEMS THROUGHOUT
79 230000 HVAC Equipment
80 230000 Main building outdoor condensing equipment (6 units @ 12 ton ea) 6 ea 50,400.00 302,400
81 230000 Classroom Wing, levels 1,2 outdoor condensing equipment (18 units 
@ 12 ton ea)
18 ea 50,400.00 907,200
82 230000 Fin tube replacement 210 lf 150.00 31,500
83 230000 Boiler Room, Phys Ed, & Shop UV's 6 ea 4,500.00 27,000
84 230000 Branch boxes 10 ea 5,500.00 55,000
85 230000 Offices, and support areas, split VRF systems 6 ea 12,500.00 75,000
86 ##### CP-, Condensate Pumps (roughly) 216 ea 425.00 91,800
87 230000 Air distribution 
88 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF 1 ea 114,400.00 114,400
89 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF 1 ea 136,500.00 136,500
90 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF 1 ea 156,000.00 156,000
91 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF 1 ea 86,840.00 86,840
92 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF 1 ea 42,900.00 42,900
93 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF 1 ea 40,820.00 40,820
94 230000 Kitchen MAU 1 ea 45,000.00 45,000
95 230000 Curb(s) 1 ea 5,500.00 5,500
96 230000 Sheet metal & Accessories
97 Sheet metal & accessories - heating/cooling 45,420 lbs 18.00 817,560
98 Kitchen exhaust 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
99 Duct insulation/wrap/lining 27,252 sf 6.00 163,512
100 RGD's 65,535 gsf 0.75 49,151
101 Sound attenuation 1 ls 32,702.40 32,702
102 Sheet metal misc. accessories 1 ls 20,439.00 20,439
103 Louvers & motorized dampers 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
104 230000 Exhaust Fans
105 230000 EF-1 thru 21 21 ea 1,800.00 37,800
106 230000 HVAC Piping  
107 230000 Refrigeration Piping
108 230000 Refrigeration piping with fittings & hangers 65,535 gsf 9.50 622,583
109 230000 Condensate Drain Piping
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 29 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 124===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
H- Option # 3 MEP Options 
110 230000 Condensate drain piping with fittings & hangers 65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070
111 230000 Piping Insulation 
112 230000 Piping insulation 65,535 gsf 2.75 180,221
113 230000 Automatic Temperature Controls 
114 230000 Automatic temperature controls - includes BMS 65,535 gsf 8.00 524,280
115 230000 System testing and balancing 65,535 gsf 1.15 75,365
116 Miscellaneous
117 Demolition of existing HVAC systems, cut, cap, make safe 65,535 gsf 0.75 49,151
118 Coordination & management/project support 65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070
119 Refrigerant reclaim 1 ls 5,000.00 5,000
120 Seismic supports, vibration control, spring isolation 1 ls 25,000.00 25,000
121 Coring, sleeves & fire stopping 1 ls 12,000.00 12,000
122 Equipment start-up and inspection 1 ls 13,800.00 13,800
123 Rigging & equipment rental 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
124 Permits & fees 1 ls 76,553.46 76,553
125 SUBTOTAL 5,180,117           
126
127 TOTAL - HVAC $5,180,117
128
129
130
26 - ELECTRICAL
131
132 260000 ELECTRICAL
133
134 GEAR & DISTRIBUTION
135 Sitework
136 Upgrade existing secondary service allow 1 ls 65,000.00 65,000
137 Normal power gear and distribution
138 2000A  120/208V switchboard 1 ea 110,000.00 110,000
139 Replace existing panelboard with new 13 ea 3,500.00 45,500
140 Extend existing circuits as necessary 1 ls 45,000.00 45,000
141 Emergency power gear and distribution
142 100KW diesel generator 1 ea 50,000.00 50,000
143 400A 120/208V 3pole  ATS 1 ea 8,500.00 8,500
144 400A feed 150 lf 156.00 23,400
145 Grounding 1 ls 4,500.00 4,500
146 Equipment wiring
147 230000 Main building outdoor condensing equipment (6 units @ 12 ton ea) 
feed and connection
6 ea 4,500.00 27,000
148 230000 Classroom Wing, levels 1,2 outdoor condensing equipment (18 units 
@ 12 ton ea) feed and connection
18 ea 4,500.00 81,000
149 230000 Classroom VRF, ducted units, concealed feed and connection 29 ea 750.00 21,750
150 230000 Boiler Room, Phys Ed, & Shop UV's feed and connection 6 ea 1,200.00 7,200
151 230000 Branch boxes feed and connection 10 ea 1,200.00 12,000
152 230000 Offices, and support areas, split VRF systems feed and connection 6 ea 1,500.00 9,000
153 ##### CP-, Condensate Pumps feed and connection 35 ea 1,200.00 42,000
154 230000 ERV-1 thru 6, energy recovery units, VRF feed and connection 6 ea 2,500.00 15,000
155 230000 Kitchen MAU feed and connection 1 ea 3,000.00 3,000
156 260000 SUBTOTAL 569,850             
157 260000
158 LIGHTING & POWER
159 Light Fixtures
160 Replace existing lighting w/ LED fixtures 660 ea 375.00 247,500
161 Lighting control
162 New low voltage lighting control system 65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070
163 Branch devices
164 Replace all existing receptacles w/commercial grade 65,535 gsf 0.60 39,321
165 Lighting & branch circuitry
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 30 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 125===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 10-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
H- Option # 3 MEP Options 
166 Extend or replace existing circuitry as necessary due to lighting and 
branch scope of work
65,535 gsf 1.50 98,303
167 260000 SUBTOTAL 516,194              
168
169 COMMUNICATION & SECURITY SYSTEMS
170 Telecommunications
171 No work this section
172
173 Fire alarm system
174 No work this section
175 SUBTOTAL -                      
176
177 OTHER ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
178 Demolition
179 Demo and make-safe 1 ls 83,000.00 83,000
180 Common Work Results for Electrical:
181 Coordination support, testing, patching, seismic, etc. 1 ls 32,000.00 32,000
182 Fees and permits 1 ls 17,000.00 17,000
183 SUBTOTAL 132,000             
184
185 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $1,218,044
186
187
188
189
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
190
191 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
192
193 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $1,168,697
194 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $311,653
195
196 SUBTOTAL $9,271,666
197
198
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
199 General Conditions 10.0% $927,167
200 General Requirements 5.0% $463,583
201 Winter Conditions excl
202 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $129,803
203 Bond 0.70% $64,902
204 Building Permit Waived
205 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $1,390,750
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $12,247,871
$7,791,316
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 31 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 126===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 02-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
J- Fire Protection Option
1 02 - EXISTING CONDITIONS
2
3 025000 SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
4 025000 Miscellaneous demolition for new FP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
5 025000 Remove cut and capped MEP equipment, fixtures & fittings 
including rooftop equipment removal 
NIC
6 Temporary protection of existing 65,535 gsf 1.00 65,535
7 SUBTOTAL 81,919                
8
9 025100 HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT
10 Abatement of hazardous materials NIC
11 SUBTOTAL -                      
12
13 TOTAL - DEMOLITION $81,919
14
15
16 05 - METALS
17
18
055000 STRUCTURAL STEEL
19 No work assumed
20 SUBTOTAL -                      
21
22 055000 METAL FABRICATIONS + STRUCTURAL STEEL
23 055000 Miscellaneous metals @ interior spaces including support for new 
MEP work 
65,535 gsf 0.15 9,830
24 SUBTOTAL 9,830                 
25
26
TOTAL - METALS $9,830
27
28
29
06 - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES
30
31 061000 ROUGH CARPENTRY
32 061000 Wood blocking at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.25 16,384
33 SUBTOTAL 16,384                
34
35 TOTAL - WOOD, PLASTICS AND COMPOSITES $16,384
36
37
38
07 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
39
40
070001 WATERPROOFING, DAMPPROOFING AND CAULKING
41 070001 Miscellaneous sealants at new FP work 65,535 gsf 0.10 6,554
42 SUBTOTAL 6,554                  
43
44
070002 ROOFING AND FLASHING
45 070002 No work assumed 
46 SUBTOTAL -                      
47
48
078400 FIRESTOPPING/ FIREPROOFING
49 078400 Fire stopping allowance at new MEP work 65,535 gsf 0.10 6,554                  
50 SUBTOTAL 6,554                  
51
52
TOTAL -  THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION $13,108
53
54
55 09 - FINISHES
56
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 32 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 127===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 02-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
J- Fire Protection Option
57 090003 ACT
58 064100 Remove and reinstall ceilings for new FP 65,535 gsf 2.00 131,070              
59 SUBTOTAL 131,070              
60
61 090007 PAINTING
62 090007 Interior painting/touch-up 65,535 gsf 0.50 32,768               
63 SUBTOTAL 32,768                
64
65
092900 GWB
66 092900 Patch and repair existing interior GWB disturbed by new MEP work 
including infills
65,535 gsf 1.00 65,535                
67 SUBTOTAL 65,535                
68
69
TOTAL -  FINISHES $229,373
70
71
72
21 - FIRE SUPPRESSION
73
74 210000 FIRE SUPPRESSION
75 ##### NEW CODE COMPLIANT BUILDING
76 ##### Fire Pump, Pump house (TBD based on flow test) 1 ls 425,000.00 425,000
77 ##### 10,000 gallon storage tank - below grade 10,000 gal 12.00 120,000
78 ##### 6" Fire service and double check, backflow preventer 1 ea 10,000.00 10,000
79 ##### Wet alarm check valve assembly 2 ea 4,500.00 9,000
80 ##### FCVA 2 ea 2,200.00 4,400
81 ##### Electric alarm bell 1 ea 950.00 950
82 ##### Fire department connection 1 ea 1,200.00 1,200
83 ##### Fire Protection equipment, hose valves, tamper switches, 1 ea 6,387.50 6,388
84 ##### Fire Protection Distribution
85 ##### Sprinkler heads, wet, pendant, pendants 624 ea 85.00 53,040
86 ##### Distribution piping with fittings & hangers 5,928 lf 35.00 207,480
87 ##### Main sprinkler piping, 6"-4" 65,535 gsf 1.25 81,919
88 ##### Miscellaneous
89 ##### Coring, cutting, sleeves & sealing 1 ls 8,500.00 8,500
90 ##### Hydraulic lifts/rigging 1 ls 9,500.00 9,500
91 ##### Shop drawings / BIM / ENG Support / As-Builts 1 ls 25,000.00 25,000
92 ##### Fees & permits 1 ls 14,435.66 14,436
93 No Scope this Section
94 SUBTOTAL 976,813              
95
96
TOTAL - FIRE SUPPRESSION $976,813
97
98
99
22 - PLUMBING
100
101
220000 PLUMBING
102 220000 No Scope Required
103 SUBTOTAL -                      
104
105 TOTAL - PLUMBING
106
107
108
23 - HVAC
109
110 230000 HVAC
111 230000 No Scope this Section
112 SUBTOTAL -                      
113
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 33 PMC - Project Management Cost
===PAGE 128===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 02-Apr-25
ADA Upgrades and New Roof 
Lunenburg, MA
GFA 65,535
CSI UNIT EST'D SUB TOTAL
CODE DESCRIPTION QTY UNIT COST COST TO TAL COST
J- Fire Protection Option
114 TOTAL - HVAC
115
116
117
26 - ELECTRICAL
118
119 260000 ELECTRICAL
120
121 GEAR & DISTRIBUTION
122 Equipment wiring
123 220000 Fire pump house feed and connection 1 ls 10,000.00 10, 000
124 260000 SUBTOTAL 10,000               
125 260000
126 OTHER ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
127 Common Work Results for Electrical:
128 Coordination support, testing, patching, seismic, etc. 1 ls 500.00 500
129 Fees and permits 1 ls 250.00 250
130 SUBTOTAL 750                     
131
132 TOTAL -ELECTRICAL $10,750
133
134
135
RENOVATION TRADE SUBTOTAL
136
137 SUBTOTAL TRADE COSTS
138
139 Design and Estimating Contingency 15.0% $200,727
140 Escalation to Bid (April 2026) 4.0% $53,527
141
142 SUBTOTAL $1,592,431
143
144
Subcontractor Bonds In rates
145 General Conditions 10.0% $159,243
146 General Requirements 5.0% $79,622
147 Winter Conditions excl
148 Insurances - GLI/Builders Risk 1.40% $22,294
149 Bond 0.70% $11,147
150 Building Permit Waived
151 Overhead & Profit 15.0% $238,865
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COST $2,103,602
$1,338,177
Turkey Hill ADA Upgrades and New Roof SD Estimate 4.10.25 REV2 Page 34 PMC - Project Management Cost