===PAGE 1===
From: <Nutrition_no-reply@doe.mass.edu> 
Date: Mon, Jun 16, 2025 at 4:57 PM 
Subject: [External] Community Eligibility Provision (CEP) Approval (14-162) 
To: <sgilson@lunenburgschools.net>, <nlorenzen@lunenburgschools.net>, 
<kburnham@lunenburgschools.net> 
 
 
Dear Dr Burnham, 
 
We are pleased to inform you that your district has been approved to implement the Community 
Eligibility Provision (CEP) for School Year (SY) 2025-2026. Section 104(a) of the Healthy, 
Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 (ACT) amended section 11(a)(1) of the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act to provide an alternative that eliminates the need for household 
applications for free and reduced-price meals in high-poverty Local Educational Agencies 
(LEAs) and schools. 
 
Schools that participate in CEP are no longer required to collect free and reduced price meal 
benefit applications to determine student eligibility for free and reduced price meals. LEAs must 
match student enrollment records for participating CEP schools through the Virtual Gateway at 
least once during the school year (7 CFR 245.6(b)(1)(v)). Schools that participate in CEP are 
required to provide healthy breakfasts and lunches each day at no charge for ALL students 
enrolled in CEP school during the 2025-2026 School Year. The total count of breakfasts and 
lunches served must be counted at the point of service daily by building. 
 
Reimbursement for each LEA or school is based on claiming percentages derived from the 
percentage of identified students, i.e., students certified for free meals through means other 
than individual household applications. The claiming percentages established in the first year for 
an LEA or school may be used for four school years and may be renewed if the percentage of 
identified students increases for the LEA or school. 
 
With the permanent funding of meals offered at no cost to Massachusetts students, the 
Commonwealth has allocated funds to supplement claiming percentages less than 100% for 
CEP schools for SY 2025-2026. This allows all approved CEP schools to receive the free rate of 
reimbursement for all meals claimed. 
 
Schools that provide discounts for school related activities using free and reduced price meal 
eligibility may want to develop their own application for families to apply for these benefits.  
While the sharing of information form can be used in conjunction with a direct certification 
notification, school food service resources cannot be used to process meal benefit applications 
for students attending CEP schools. 
 
 
The integrity of an LEA's ISP documentation is subject to the Administrative Review process 
conducted by the Office for Food Nutrition Programs. Errors in documentation found during an 
===PAGE 2===
Administrative Review require DESE to determine the actual ISP, which will be subject to fiscal 
action. The corrected ISP is used for the remainder of the four-year cycle. 
 
The claiming percentages established for SY 2024-2025 will be applied for SY 2025-2026 
through SY 2028-2029, and are listed below. 
 
Site Name and Number                               Site ISP Group ISP  Free Pct  Paid Pct 
TURKEY HILL Elementary School (162-510)              26.32%    26.32%     42.1%     57.9% 
 
Thank you. 
 
Office for Food and Nutrition Programs 