===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg School Committee Operating Protocols 
Who We Represent 
1. School Committee members are elected public officials, selected by their fellow citizens to act in their
interests and empowered to act as they see their duty to work for the children of their community.
Pertinent Points of School Committee Authority 
1. We shall exercise leadership in vision, planning, policy, budgeting, evaluation of the 
Superintendent of Schools, and advocacy of the district, consistent with the law and our 
policies.
2. It is the Superintendent’s responsibility to oversee personnel issues and to manage the day-
to-day operations of the district. It is the School Committee’s responsibility to evaluate the 
superintendent’s effectiveness in these matters in accordance with Department of Elementary 
and Secondary Education’s standards.
3. We shall recognize that authority rests only with the majority decision of the School 
Committee and we shall not make any independent commitments or take any independent 
actions that may compromise the School Committee as a whole. The Superintendent takes 
direction from the School Committee as a whole, not an individual member.
4. We shall follow the chain of command regarding questions, concerns or complaints and 
direct members of the community to do the same.
5. We shall not use our positions for personal or partisan gain.
6. When serious issues arise, the Superintendent, not any School Committee member, has the 
authority to investigate a complaint or concern. The Superintendent shall provide committee 
members with his/her response/resolution within an appropriate timeline.
How We Treat Each Other 
1. We shall debate the issues keeping an open mind to other member’s opinions and/or 
positions.
2. We shall respect staff and fellow committee members at all times.
3. We shall work to build trust between and among School Committee members, the 
Superintendent, the administration, faculty, staff and the community by treating everyone 
with dignity and respect, even in times of disagreement.
How We Communicate 
1. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of proactive
communication. If School Committee members have questions or concerns, we agree to contact
the Superintendent well in advance of a meeting. We agree that there will be no surprises.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg School Committee Operating Protocols 
 
2. We shall channel requests for information through the Superintendent and/or the School 
Committee Chairperson rather than directly to district staff.  
3. We shall provide full disclosure of information and not withhold information from other 
members.  
4. The Committee shall advocate for the public schools and public education as ambassadors of 
the school system by promoting support for public education and spreading the news of our 
success. We shall always strive to project a positive professional image.  
5. The Committee recognizes the Chairperson, or her/his designee, as the official voice of the 
School Committee.  
6. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of working 
collaboratively with Town officials to improve our schools and we shall actively seek ways to 
enlist their support for our efforts. Town officials shall channel requests for information 
through the Chairperson for consideration by the School Committee 
7. Our seating plan allows all members to see and hear each other to facilitate effective 
communication. The School Committee members, Superintendent, and Student Representative 
will be seated at the table.  
 
How We Operate 
1. We acknowledge that a School Committee meeting is a meeting of the School Committee that 
is held in public – not a public meeting. Our meetings will be recorded whenever possible and 
we encourage public comment.  Agendas and supporting documents for meetings will be posted 
on the district website in advance of the meeting. 
2. We shall conduct business through a set agenda. Emerging items shall be addressed in 
subsequent meetings through planned agenda items unless it is determined by the School 
Committee Chairperson that it would be detrimental to delay the issue until a subsequent 
meeting. Requests to add items to an agenda shall be made to the Superintendent or the School 
Committee Chairperson.   All items for a School Committee agenda must be in accordance with 
the law.  
3. The agenda will include public comment promptly at the beginning of the meeting to allow 
the public to address agenda items and matters under the governance of the School Committee. 
A second public comment will be included at the end of the meeting, before Topics for Future 
Discussion, to allow the public to comment on items relative to this meeting, items not on the 
agenda, or items for future discussion. Comments must be limited to matters that fall under the 
governance of the School Committee.  
4. Public comment periods will be limited to 10 minutes and can only be extended by a majority 
vote of the Committee.  Individual speakers will be limited to 3 minutes.  Written public 
comments may be submitted to the Chair. 
5. Our meetings will be guided by Roberts Rules of Order.  
6. We shall strive to make each meeting effective and efficient giving each member an equal 
opportunity to express their views and opinions and to relay their input in a concise and topic-
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg School Committee Operating Protocols 
 
focused manner. No one member should monopolize the discussion. All remarks must be 
directed through the Chair. Remarks must be courteous in language and delivery.  
7. We shall make decisions based on information and not on personalities after considering 
data, the Superintendent’s recommendations, proposals, and suggestions. We will vote our 
convictions, avoid bias, and uphold the decision of the majority of the Committee once a 
decision is made.  
8. We shall exhibit professional conduct and behavior.  
9. We shall attend meetings well-prepared to discuss issues on the agenda and to participate in 
efficient decision-making.  
 
10. When we are in committee we will remain in our committee member role throughout the 
meeting.  
11. We shall ensure that we do not breach the open meeting laws by deliberating in any format 
outside of duly convened meetings of the committee.  
12. We shall respect the confidentiality of Executive Sessions.  
13. Our actions shall be consistent with the core values of the district, and be consistent with 
our vision.  
14. We recognize the importance of honoring our agreed upon operating protocols and we agree 
to take responsibility for reminding one another when we get off track.  
 
How We Will Improve  
1. All new School Committee members will attend an MASC orientation session as soon as 
practicable, but within one year of being elected.  
2. All members will be open to continued personal growth through participating in workshops 
or training opportunities.  
3. We shall review and revise operating protocols annually through a workshop.  
4. We shall set goals annually and discuss progress. 
 