===PAGE 1===
 1 
Budget Task Force Charge 
Section 1: General 
The Budget Task Force shall be charged with recommending scenarios for a three to 
five-year sustainable fiscal plan for the Town of Lunenburg. A sustainable fiscal plan is 
defined as a financial forecast that uses realistic assumptions for revenue and 
expenditure growth that allow the Town to provide services that meet residents’ 
expectations and meet ongoing expenditure obligations through regularly occurring 
revenues. Said fiscal plan shall consider, as an example, alternative revenue sources; 
overrides and exclusions under proposition 2 ½; cuts in service; contracting out of 
services, as well as other measures. Said fiscal plan shall include both operational and 
capital budgets for the town. The Budget Task Force shall consult with pertinent 
departments as it formulates its plan. 
The Budget Task Force shall present its findings and recommendations to the Select 
Board, Finance Committee, and School Committee no later than December 31, 2024. 
 
Section 2: Tasks and Responsibilities 
• Collect data on revenue and expenditure historical trends, and project future 
estimates based on trends and various assumptions. 
• Benchmark municipal and school performance, programs, expenditures, and 
revenues with comparable municipalities. 
• Examine potential revenue sources; overrides and exclusions under Proposition 2 ½ 
as well as non-tax and non-override revenue sources in compliance with the Town 
Financial Policy including costs, feasibility, potential savings, and other impacts of 
potential adoption and implementation; cuts in service; contracting out of services, 
as well as other measures. 
• Evaluate strategies to properly staff municipal and school operations while managing 
growth of personnel costs. 
• Analyze capital project funding needs and impacts, including long term large capital 
projects. 
• Include both operational and capital budgets in the fiscal plan recommendations. 
• Assess the impact any increased taxes and fees will have on taxpayers and 
residents, including the tax impact of debt exclusions related to large capital projects 
under consideration. 
Section 3: Membership and Meetings 
1. The Select Board does hereby establish the Budget Task Force as a temporary 
working group consisting of seven (7) members: 
• Select Board, 1 representative 
• School Committee, 1 representative  
===PAGE 2===
 2 
• Finance Committee, 1 representative 
• Town Manager 
• School Superintendent 
• Town Finance Director 
• School Director of Administration and Finance  
2. The Select Board shall reserve the right to continue the Budget Task Force after its 
task is complete in order to adjust the plan due to changing circumstances. 
3. The Budget Task Force shall meet at a time and place mutually agreeable to its 
membership.  
4. Voting Power: All duly appointed members shall have full voting power. 
5. A quorum shall consist of four (4) members. 
6. The election of officers including a Chair, Vice-Chair, and Clerk shall be by a 
majority vote of the Budget Task Force. 
7. The recording of minutes and votes of all meetings as prescribed by Open Meeting 
Law. Copies of the minutes shall be submitted to the Town Clerk as prescribed in 
the Town Bylaws and according to Open Meeting Law. 
 
This charge was adopted by the Lunenburg Select Board at their _____________ , 
2024 meeting and may be amended at any future meeting. 