===PAGE 1===
    ``  
Lunenburg Public Schools:  
The Early Learning Center Program Handbook 2025/2026 
The Lunenburg Public Schools offers an Early Learning Center program for families living in the 
Town of Lunenburg. Children are required to be toilet trained to attend. This program is different 
and separate from The Lunenburg Primary School Pre-School. This handbook outlines the services 
to assist you in determining if the program meets the needs of your family. 
  
. TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Rates and fees……………………………………………………… 2  
Enrollment/Attendance………………………………………….... 2  
Pick-Up and Drop-off Procedures……………………………….... 3  
Medications/Health…………………………………………….…. 3  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline…………………………………...…3  
Early Learning Center………………………………………………4  
 Hours of Operation.….…….……………………………………..... 4/5  
           Early Release & Full PD Days  
           Closures  
           Inclement Weather  
          Vacations  
         Daily Activities….…………………………………………………5  
         Sign off on handbook------------------------------------------------------6 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
The Early Learning Center Program is a self-sustaining program located at the Lunenburg Primary 
School, and all fees collected are allocated to program costs. The session rate for The Early Learning 
Center services is established by the School Committee on an annual basis.  
Email pmccarthyguillette@lunenburgschools.net or visit our website 
http://www.lunenburgschools.net/extended-daycare-program for current rates. You can also 
contact Annette Queen at aqueen@lunenburgschools.net  Please see cover letter for the 25/26  
rates. 
Families will be billed monthly. The bill is based upon a session rate and lunch block if 
attended.  
Parents will be billed according to the set scheduled sessions that your child is signed up for, 
regardless of your child’s attendance. 
Statements are distributed mid-month and payments are due on the 1st of the following month. If 
the 1st falls on a weekend, payment will be due on the next school day. Payment is expected on the 
due date unless prior arrangements are made. Please speak to the Program Director if you are having 
difficulty paying your bill on time. Carrying an outstanding balance will result in your child being 
removed from the program. Checks should be made to Town of Lunenburg or thru our bill 
payment system RevTrak  
Registration forms and emergency contact information must be filled out every year in advance 
for each child attending the program. These are specific forms for The Early Learning Center 
Program and separate from any forms filled out for the school administration.  
Please include the following to complete your registration:  
*Registration form and a $25 non -refundable deposit (deducted from 1st months bill) 
*Three forms of current residency-ex: current license, utility bill, mortgage, bank 
statement or   rental agreement with name and address on them.  
*Immunization record  
Please see the Extended Day Handbook for additional information.  
PLEASE NOTE  
We require a schedule of attendance to be provided for each child so that we can ensure 
appropriate levels of supervision. Registrations will be available May 19, 2025 . It is the 
parents’ responsibility to notify the school and The Early Learning Center of their child’s 
schedule. Your child may attend both the Early Learning Center and the Primary School 
Preschool if needed, paying the tuition for both programs.   
A schedule of registration notices and deadlines will be issued through school publications and 
websites.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Pick-up and Drop-off Procedures  
It is required that adults must sign-in/sign-out their child both in the morning and the afternoon. 
This is for your child’s safety. Your child will only be released to those individuals listed on the 
registration form. You must notify staff in writing or verbally if someone that is not on the list is 
coming to pick up your child, or we will not release him/her.  
Medications/ Health  
No medications will be dispensed at The Early Learning Center other than those 
designated as emergency medications (i.e., Epi -pens, inhalers). Staff are trai ned in 
first-aid, Epi-pen, CPR and AED Defibrillator.  *The parent/guardian of any child on an 
inhaler or epi -pen should talk to the Early Learning Center Director or Coordinator and 
establish a written health plan for the time the child is enrolled in the Early Learning Center 
program.  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline  
Behavior and discipline standards at the Early Learning Center are consistent with those of the 
school district. Students are expected to conduct themselves according to the standards set forth in 
their student handbook. Please refer to the current handbook for a fully detailed explanation.  
 All members of the Early Learning Center program are expected to treat each other with 
courtesy and respect at all times.  
 Students will show respect for school property and the property of others. 
 Bullying is absolutely not tolerated.  
 Through both environmental and instructional structure, we strive to foster positive behavior 
and self -management in students, greatly red ucing the need to ‘discipline’ or correct 
behaviors.  
 Children may be given a verbal reminder to correct inappropriate conduct. If the behavior 
continues, the child will be asked to separate from the situation for a brief period of time in 
order to colle ct themselves and may reenter the activity once they are able to choose 
appropriate behavior.  
 If a child continues to be unable to manage themselves, then a parent will be notified. ∙ 
If behavior continues or is detrimental to the program or other students, then 
administrative intervention will be sought up to and including removal from the 
program.  
PLEASE NOTE: If your child is also enrolled in the Lunenburg Primary Preschool, privacy issues 
limit the school administration from sharing behavior/education plans with The Early 
Learning Center staff without the written consent of the parent. Please do not assume that we have 
access to this kind of information.  
If there is information that would be helpful in providing the best possible care for your child, 
please speak to the program director/coordinator to share any pertinent information.  
 
===PAGE 4===
Early Learning Center  
The classroom for the Early Learning Center program has been designed with areas for 
developmental growth, such as: housekeeping, block building, reading, listening center, and 
science, along with an art area, reinforcing necessary skills for social, emoti onal, cognitive and 
physical growth. During the regular school hours from 9:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. children attending the 
program will have a structured day, reinforcing necessary skills that are introduced in the preschool 
and kindergarten classrooms, for e xample: name writing, color/shape identification, alphabet 
identification, cutting skills, etc. The skills will be taught in a fun learning environment, whether it 
is during a theme-related week (i.e., jungle unit or community helpers) or a circle time act ivity of 
“what’s missing” or just practicing letter formation on a table top of shaving cream. The children 
will also have plenty of time for free exploration of the classroom.  
During the school day program, we strive for a staff -to-student ratio of 1:6 plus an 
additional adult due to the academic portion of the program.  
For more information, please see our website or contact the program Director pmccarthy-
guillette@lunenburgschools.net or Assistant Director aqueen@lunenburgschools.net 
 
Hours of Operation:  
Early Learning Center  
Morning session: 9:00am to 11:30 a.m.  
Lunch Block 11:30-12:00(if attended), Packed lunch from home. Please refrain from nut products. 
Afternoon session: 12:00 to 2:30 p.m.  
Full day option from 9:00-2:30  
Early Release Days  
The Early Learning Center session will end at 11:00, when the district has an early release day.  
 
Closed  
 Full Day Professional Development days for the district and the following holidays: 
August 20th-Labor Day Break 
September 1st-Labor Day  
September 2-First Day of Early Learning Center 
October 13th-Indigenous Peoples’ Day 
 November 4th-Professional Development  
November 11th-Veterans Day  
November 26 Am session only 
November 27th & 28th-Thanksgiving Break  
December 23rd Am session only 
December-Winter Break Dec. 24rd thru Jan. 2nd 
===PAGE 5===
January 19th-Martin Luther King Day  
March 20th-Professional Development 
May 25th-Memorial Day  
June 19th-Juneteenth 
 
Vacations  
The Early Learning Center will be closed on the December, February, and April break in 
accordance with the school District. You will not be billed for these days or holidays. 
PLEASE NOTE:  
The Early Learning Center closes the Friday before the last day of school and will begin 
one week after the District start date. ELC will start September 2nd, 2025 
Inclement Weather  
The Early Learning Center will be closed on weather emergency days. For delayed openings, The 
Early Learning Center a.m. session will be canceled. You will not be billed for these days or 
holidays.  
Daily Activities  
A.M. Arrival (9:00 am) 
Free choice of play, games and arts  
Morning Meeting/Circle Time  
Greet our Friends  
Introduce what our day will look like  
Themed related arts/crafts  
Indoor/outdoor activities  
Snacks  
P.M. Repeat Arrival (12:00) 
 
Outdoor activities  
Students enrolled in the Early Learning Center program will go outside. Please be sure that 
children are properly dressed each day for outdoor recess and clothes are labeled.  
Snacks  
Children must provide their own snack at the Early Learning Center. This is in accordance with 
the school’s policy on snacks due to the number of children with food allergies. Please refrain 
from sending foods containing nuts. 
Non-Discrimination Statement  
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free from 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, sexual 
orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran status, 
political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic information or 
===PAGE 6===
disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation 
against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal 
opportunity investigation. 
 
 
 
 