===PAGE 1===
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
School Improvement Plan (2024-2026)  –  February 2026 
 Building Strategic Goal #1:To ensure all students can demonstrate significant 
growth in reading working towards or exceeding grade level in order 
to successfully access all content area curriculum. Our district goal is 
for 80% of students to be at or above grade level in two years.  
 
 We continue to use benchmark assessments of literacy skills in place of iReady. Data from the 
benchmark assessments guide our  Data Dives, where teams analyze results, form intervention 
groups, and plan next instructional steps. With our most recent benchmark assessments we will 
restructure our intervention plan with the guidance of Dr. Sarfde. These coordinated efforts aim 
to close literacy gaps and strengthen Tier I instruction across classrooms. 
Building Strategic Goal #2:  To ensure all students can demonstrate significant 
growth in math working towards or exceeding grade level in order to 
successfully access all content area curriculum. Our district goal is for 
80% of students to be at or above grade level in two years.  
For math, we are using teacher recommendation, past assessment data, and benchmark 
assessment data to guide our Deep Dives, where teams analyze results, form intervention 
groups, and plan next instructional steps.  With our most recent benchmark assessments we will 
restructure our intervention plan with the guidance of Mrs. Resnick. These coordinated efforts 
aim to close mathematics gaps and strengthen Tier I instruction across classrooms. This year, 
professional development and PLC meetings will continue to focus on building coherence in 
math instruction, deepening teachers’ understanding of number sense. The next PD sessions 
are scheduled for Feb 4 and 5.  The sessions are followed by Walkthrough Observations of 
professional learning in action.  Special Education teachers continue receiving PD in discalcula. 
Building Strategic Goal #3:  To ensure all students are provided a safe school 
environment to develop both a positive sense of self and connection to 
their community. 
We continue to strengthen the sense of belonging among students, staff, and families through 
the implementation of a social-emotional learning curriculum (trails to wellness). This year, we 
are engaging staff in scenario-based safety training (Feb 3) while maintaining strong 
partnerships with the fire and police departments. Kind Kids club, Girls on the Run, and our 
Winter/Spring after school activities promote our sense of connection and community as a 
school.  VOCAL data from MCAS show improvement in student perceptions of school and their 
sense of belonging.  
 