===PAGE 1===
SIP Update 1-30-2026 
LMS School Improvement Plan (2024-2026)  –  February 2026 
 Building Strategic Goal #1:Building Strategic Goal #1: By May of 2025 and through May of 2026, 
LMS students including students with disabilities who are substantially below grade level 
benchmark will grow their skills as measured by at least above average growth in an increase 
in students scoring in the meeting or exceeding category of MCAS results.  
Teachers have identified students who are significantly below grade level and have incorporated 
scaffolds and strategies in improving their overall performance that will result in improved MCAS scores. 
The majority of teachers in the middle school have adopted this goal as their student learning goal in the 
educator evaluation process and provide artifacts and evidence during that process that indicates 
improved performance based upon classroom and common grade level assessments.  
Teachers also utilize a child study once a month to continue to identify students who struggle and 
collaborate with colleagues to develop lessons and strategies to improve their performance.  
 
Building Strategic Goal #2: Decrease the percentage of students that meet the criteria of 
chronically absent, specifically in our lowest performing student subgroup over the next 2 
years by 10 %.   
Administrators and guidance staff collaborate weekly to review student attendance records and 
communicate with families as well as outside agencies to decrease the amount of student 
chronic absenteeism and provide families with the support and guidance they require to assist 
students attending school on time. Our School resource officer as well as our School  
Psychologist and School Adjustment Counselor  have performed home visits to respond to a 
family crisis or assist in supporting a family of a student with school refusal.   
 
Building Strategic Goal #3: We will promote and provide additional opportunities for parents 
and families to interact and observe student activities and athletic events  at Lunenburg 
Middle School.  
We have expanded our communication to include a Facebook page as well as a weekly 
newsletter to promote students' extracurricular activities such as Art exhibits, Geography Bee, 
Honor Roll Breakfast, athletic events, attendance for Homecoming day, Drama club 
presentations and Science Olympiad. LHS Open House and Parent/ Teacher Conferences 
remain well attended and well promoted. LMS Grade 8 graduation is now streamed on Local 
Access Television.  
 
===PAGE 2===
LHS School Improvement Plan update 1-30-2026 
 
 Building Strategic Goal #1:Building Strategic Goal #1 By May of 2026, students in a cohort 
identified as students with disabilities (not to exceed seven) or students who are substantially 
below grade level will grow their skills as measured by at least above average growth in  
classroom-based measures. 
The majority of LHS Teachers have identified students who are significantly below grade level in their 
classrooms and have incorporated scaffolds and strategies in improving their overall performance that 
will result in improved scores on assessments and finals class grades. The majority of teachers in the 
high school  have adopted this goal as their student learning goal in the educator evaluation process and 
provide artifacts and evidence that indicates improved student performance based upon classroom and 
common grade level assessments.  
Teachers also utilize a student support team that meets once a week and a behavior health support 
team that meets once a week to gain further effective strategies for student success from peers who are 
experts in their field.  
 
Building Strategic Goal #2: Decrease the percentage of students that meet the criteria of 
chronically absent, specifically in our lowest performing student subgroup over the next 2 
years by 10 %.   
At the high school, we have a teacher who is completing her administrative apprenticeship for 
her administrative licensure. One of her primary responsibilities is to check student attendance 
daily and communicate effectively with students, families and administrators to decrease the 
number of students experiencing chronic absenteeism. Communication includes letters to 
families and students well before they reach the threshold of chronically absent resources for 
assistance in getting students to school as well as parent and student meetings to support 
families of students who experience school avoidance. Our School resource officer as well as 
our School Psychologist and School Adjustment Counselor  have performed home visits to 
respond to a family crisis or assist in supporting a family of a student with school refusal.       
 
Building Strategic Goal #3: We will promote and provide additional opportunities for parents 
and families to interact and observe student activities and athletic events  at Lunenburg 
Middle School.  
We have expanded our communication to include a Facebook page, web page as well as a 
weekly newsletter to promote students' extracurricular activities such as Art exhibits, athletic 
events, attendance for Homecoming Day, competitive class plays, Winter and Spring concerts, 
===PAGE 3===
student rallies, presentations and Science Olympiad competitions LHS Open House and Parent/ 
Teacher Conferences remain well attended and well promoted. LHS piloted a third Parent 
/Teacher conference in the Spring of 2026 to provide additional opportunities for parents to 
communicate with teachers effectively.  LHS graduation is now streamed on Local Access 
Television.  