===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION                                                                           5000 
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                          5700 
 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES                                                                            5701 
 
ADMINISTRATION OF MEDICATIONS                                                                5701.01 
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
[DRAFT] MEDICATION ADMINISTRATION POLICY 
Draft Date: 4/6/26 
Status: Pending School Committee Approval / First Reading 
Medication may not be administered to students while at school unless such medicine is given 
to them by the school nurse acting under specific written request of the parent or guardian and 
under the written directive of the student's personal physician (see below for exceptions). 
If a student has been approved for self-administration, a student who needs medication during 
the school day may be reminded to take the medicine by the school nurse or other individual 
designated by the school nurse in the student's medical administration plan. This provision only 
applies when the school nurse has a medical administration plan in place for the student. No 
one but the school nurse, and those others listed in the medical administration plan acting within 
the above restriction, may give any medication to any student. 
Exceptions: 
1. Epinephrine Auto-Injectors: Lunenburg Public Schools shall, through the district nurse 
leader, register with the Department of Public Health and train personnel in the use of 
epinephrine auto-injectors. 
2. Nasal Naloxone (Narcan) Administration: Lunenburg Public Schools may, in 
conjunction with the School Physician and the School Nurse Leader, stock nasal 
naloxone (Narcan). Trained medical personnel and first responders may administer 
nasal naloxone to individuals experiencing a life-threatening opiate overdose in a school 
setting. 
3. Non-Medical Staff Training for Naloxone: If Lunenburg Public Schools wishes medical 
personnel to train non-medical staff in the administration of nasal naloxone, the 
Lunenburg School Committee shall vote to approve such training, and the 
Superintendent shall ensure that medical personnel have a written protocol which 
complies with medical directives and regulations from the Department of Public Health. 
===PAGE 2===
4. Student Self-Administration: Following consultation with the school nurse, students 
who fall into the following exceptions may self-administer medications: 
○ A. Students with asthma or other respiratory diseases may possess and 
administer prescription inhalers. 
○ B. Students with cystic fibrosis may possess and administer prescription enzyme 
supplements. 
○ C. Students with diabetes may possess and administer glucose monitoring tests 
and insulin delivery systems. 
○ D. Students with life-threatening allergies may possess and administer 
epinephrine. 
SOURCE: Adapted from MASC (Massachusetts Association of School Committees) - Reviewed 
2021 
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:54B 
DPH REGULATIONS: 105 CMR 210.00; 244 CMR 3.00 
 