===PAGE 1===
 
Early Literacy 
Performance in 
Massachusetts 
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy 
Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
Mariann Lemke, Molly Faulkner-Bond, 
Brandon LeBeau, Aaron Soo Ping Chow, 
Sarah Quesen 
Fall 2025 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
© 2025 WestEd. All rights reserved. 
  
Suggested citation: Lemke, M., Faulkner-Bond, M., LeBeau, B, Soo Ping Chow, A., & Quesen, S. 
(2025). Early literacy performance in Massachusetts: Results of ongoing analysis of literacy 
screening assessments (2023/24 data). WestEd. 
WestEd is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that aims to improve the lives of children and 
adults at all ages of learning and development. We do this by addressing challenges in 
education and human development, increasing opportunity, and helping build communities 
where all can thrive. WestEd staff conduct and apply research, provide technical assistance, and 
support professional learning. We work with early learning educators, classroom teachers, local 
and state leaders, and policymakers at all levels of government. 
For more information, visit WestEd.org. For regular updates on research, free resources, 
solutions, and job postings from WestEd, subscribe to the E-Bulletin, our semimonthly e-
newsletter, at WestEd.org/subscribe. 
===PAGE 3===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– iii – 
Contents 
Executive Summary 1 
Key Findings 1 
Introduction 4 
Research Questions 5 
Data and Methods 7 
Early Literacy Universal Screening Assessment Data 7 
Student-Level State Education Data 13 
Publicly Available School- and District-Level Data 15 
Merging and Reporting of Student-, School-, and District-Level Data 16 
Analysis and Findings 16 
Screening Assessment Data Overview 16 
Student Performance 27 
Student Progress 51 
School Characteristics and Student Performance 69 
English Learner Student Performance 80 
Discussion and Next Steps 96 
References 99 
Appendix A. Business Rules and Data Processing Specifications 102 
Cleaning Early Literacy Universal Screening Assessment Data 102 
Cleaning Student-Level State Education Data 105 
Merging Student-Level Early Literacy Screening Data and State 
Education Data 105 
Cleaning and Merging Publicly Available School- and District-Level 
Data 107 
===PAGE 4===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– iv – 
Appendix B.Comparability Analysis Details 108 
Screening Assessment Benchmark Details 108 
Screening Assessment Agreement Rates 112 
Comparability Testing 113 
Equipercentile Linking Procedure 177 
MCAS Grade 3 Linked Values 178 
Appendix C. Screening Assessment Overview and Student Performance 180 
Appendix D. Student Progress 208 
Appendix E. School Analysis Details 223 
Multilevel Logistic Regression Model Description 223 
Neighborhood Segregation Analysis Description 229 
“Outperforming” School Selection 232 
Regression Discontinuity Design Analysis 232 
Appendix F. Corresponding Data Tables and Figure Descriptions 239 
 
  
===PAGE 5===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 1 – 
Executive Summary 
Since the 2020/21 school year, the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education (DESE) has collected and analyzed early literacy screening assessment data from 
schools and districts that participated in targeted state grants. In 2023/24, the 1st year that 
screening was required for all kindergarten through grade 3 (K–3) students statewide, data 
were collected for nearly half the state’s K–3 population. 
Using 2023/24 and longitudinal data, this report examines patterns of early literacy 
performance and progress across student groups, grades, and schools. The findings reaffirm 
patterns seen in prior years— such as the persistence of risk and disparities across student 
populations— while also offering new information on benchmark comparability, multilingual 
learners, and school-level variation in outcomes. 
Data Used in 2023/24 Analysis 
• The data available in 2023/24 doubled from 2022/23.  
• The data include 388,000 scores from 137,000 students, about 53 percent of the 
state’s K–3 student population.  
• Scores are from 612 schools and 144 districts, about half of schools serving  
K–3 students.  
• The data are from 13 screening assessments. 
• Six screening assessments account for 92 percent of the data. 
Key Findings 
• Student benchmark performance is consistent over time. About one quarter to one 
third of students were identified as significantly below benchmark at any given time 
period (beginning, middle, or end of year), and between 16 and 19 percent were 
significantly below benchmark in all three time periods. These rates have been 
consistent over 3 years of analysis.  
• Inequities in literacy performance persist. Students from low income backgrounds; 
English learners; students receiving special education services; and Black, Hispanic, 
American Indian or Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
students were more likely to be identified as significantly below benchmark than were 
their peers not in those groups. For example, students from low income backgrounds 
were 2.5 times as likely to be repeatedly classified as at significant risk than were 
students without low income backgrounds. Students from backgrounds that include 
membership in multiple historically underserved groups were even more frequently 
===PAGE 6===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 2 – 
identified as at risk, although there is variation across groups. For example, students 
from low income backgrounds in all racial and ethnic groups were more often classified 
as significantly below benchmark, but Hispanic White students were about 1.8 times as 
likely to be at significant risk than were non–Hispanic White students. Prior results 
show these same patterns of performance.  
• Early literacy performance tends to predict later performance. Students who started 
the school year significantly below benchmark tended to remain so throughout the 
year and across grade levels, and students who met reading benchmarks also tended to 
stay at those levels. More than half the students identified as at significant risk at the 
beginning of the year were still at that level at the end of the year. However, students 
who improved their performance beyond the significant risk threshold typically 
maintained higher scores on screening assessments and the grade 3 Massachusetts 
Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS) test. Also, students in earlier grades 
consistently showed a lower likelihood of remaining at significant risk from year to year 
compared with those in higher grades. These findings also mirror past results. 
• Meeting benchmarks early is associated with better longer term achievement. This 
year’s analysis followed students identified as at significant risk at the beginning of 
grade 1 through grade 3. Students who met reading benchmarks by the end of grade 1 
were at least 1.3 times as likely to meet expectations on the MCAS English language 
arts (ELA) assessment in grade 3 as were students who met benchmarks later, and they 
were at least 5 times as likely to meet expectations as students who never met 
benchmarks. These and similar previous findings underscore the need for early, 
targeted interventions to disrupt trajectories of reading difficulty.  
At the same time, analysis has repeatedly shown that meeting screening assessment 
benchmarks is not always sufficient for meeting expectations on MCAS. In many cases, 
even students who met screening assessment benchmarks did not meet expectations 
on MCAS, pointing to the need for comprehensive literacy instruction that addresses  
higher-level ELA and writing skills not typically measured by screening assessments.  
• Students just above and below significant risk threshold perform similarly on MCAS. 
New exploratory analysis this year focused on students just above and below risk 
thresholds to examine differences in later performance. Students just below risk 
thresholds were identified as needing intervention and support, and students just 
above risk thresholds were not identified as needing such supports. There were no 
observed differences between these groups in later MCAS performance, although this 
finding could be due to differences between screening assessments and MCAS (as 
mentioned in the finding above). Or it could simply suggest that any supports being 
provided are helping students keep up but not gain ground compared with their peers.  
• School factors influence literacy outcomes. Previous analyses showed that school 
environments are related to rates of risk identification, and this is shown in the current 
===PAGE 7===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 3 – 
results also. School-level factors like higher concentrations of students from low 
income backgrounds correlated with the increased likelihood of repeated risk 
identification. Zooming out to the district level this year— through an analysis of 
district-level school segregation measures— showed that historically underserved 
students in more racially segregated contexts were slightly more likely to be identified 
as significantly below benchmark multiple times. However, some schools do 
outperform the risk rates predicted by statistical models that take into account student 
demographics and resources, suggesting avenues for potential further study.  
• Screening results for the same students from different assessments can vary 
considerably. In any time period, about 3 percent to 4 percent of students took more 
than one screening assessment. Some students took assessments in English and 
Spanish (mostly Star assessments). Some took assessments that targeted different 
grade or skill levels or that varied in length or mode of administration. Rates of 
agreement between screening assessments— that is, whether students would be 
considered at risk of reading difficulty— varied from 47 percent to 85 percent 
depending on screening assessment combinations.  
Among English learners taking screening assessments in English and Spanish, patterns 
of performance varied by language. In English, about 21 percent of students who 
performed above the significant risk threshold at the beginning of the year were still 
there by the end of the year, and another 19 percent improved to that level. In Spanish, 
fewer students (11%) improved beyond the significant risk level. This difference may be 
related to the fact that most students are being taught primarily in English, and Spanish 
language development outside of school may not align with the types of skills included 
on screening assessments. Taken together, these findings suggest that schools and 
districts carefully consider whether administering multiple screening assessments 
provides new information that supports student learning. 
Some caution is needed in generalizing from these results given differences between screening 
assessments and between screening assessment data samples over time. Addressing these 
challenges could improve DESE’s ability to develop a comparable system for reporting and 
analysis. Nonetheless, although exact numbers may vary depending on the benchmarks used in 
analysis or characteristics of the available data, patterns of performance over 3 years of analysis 
have been remarkably consistent. Although universal screening provides valuable data that can 
be used to identify students who need support, current interventions are not yet addressing 
these challenges fully. Continued efforts to investigate and support effective school practices 
are essential for advancing literacy outcomes statewide. 
===PAGE 8===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 4 – 
Introduction 
Over the past few years, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, like many other states, has 
implemented a series of policies and programs aimed at improving the literacy skills of young 
children. A change to state regulation in 2022 required elementary schools to assess each 
student’s reading abilities and early literacy skills at least twice per year from kindergarten 
through at least grade 3 (K–3), beginning in the 2023/24 school year.  
The early literacy screening regulation also requires that schools determine how to meet the 
needs of students whose screening results are “significantly below relevant benchmarks for 
age-typical development” based on use of a “valid, developmentally appropriate, screening 
instrument approved by the Department.”  
To assist schools and districts in implementing the regulation, the Massachusetts Department 
of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) published guidance in June 2023 that includes 
information on selecting and administering screening assessments and interpreting their results 
in the context of the regulation. The guidance also provides information on considerations for 
screening students with disabilities and multilingual learners, as well as information on the 
relationship between screening and identification of dyslexia. DESE’s goal is to support schools 
in implementing an effective screening and data-based decision-making process that will 
identify students at risk of reading difficulty early and provide evidence-based and effective 
supports. Even before the amendment to the regulation, DESE had begun supporting early 
literacy screening by providing a list of vetted literacy screening assessments to schools and 
districts and offering grant funding to purchase and implement them.  
Beginning with the 2020/21 school year, DESE began collecting literacy screening assessment 
data from schools and districts participating in certain state grants. DESE contracted with 
WestEd, a national nonpartisan research and service organization, to analyze these data. 
Following on earlier analysis, this report uses data from 2023/24 and earlier years to address 
key questions about the extent to which students are reaching critical early reading 
benchmarks and how performance and progress differ across student groups and schools.1 
The specific research questions addressed in this year’s report are in the next section. Several 
associated issue briefs provide additional information on related topics.   
 
1 Earlier reports and issue briefs are available on the DESE website Early Reading Performance 
in Massachusetts. 
===PAGE 9===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 5 – 
Research Questions 
Screening Assessment Data Overview 
• How many benchmark scores are available overall and for each assessment? 
• How many students, schools, and districts are represented by the data in 2023/24? 
• How many benchmark scores are available by grade and student group? To what extent 
does the sample of students with available benchmark scores represent the overall 
grade K–3 student population in the state? 
• How many benchmark scores are available by time period in 2023/24? 
Student Performance 
• How many students were identified as significantly below benchmark by time period, 
grade, and student group? 
• How many students were identified as significantly below benchmark two or three 
times overall and by grade and student group? 
• How do student and school background factors interact and relate to the likelihood of 
students being identified as significantly below benchmark more than once? 
• Which students are tested “off grade level”? How does their performance compare 
with that of other students? 
Student Progress 
• How does student performance change as the school year progresses? Do students 
identified as significantly below benchmark remain significantly below benchmark? 
• How does student progress vary by grade and student background characteristics? 
• How does student performance change across grade levels? Do students at risk remain 
at risk across years? 
• How does student performance change over the summer? 
• What is the relationship between screening assessment scores and MCAS performance 
in grade 3? 
• How do students identified as at risk in grades 1, 2, and 3 perform on MCAS in later 
grades (e.g., 3, 4, and 5)? Among students identified as at risk early (e.g., beginning of 
grade 1), how does MCAS performance in grade 3 differ between those who remain at 
risk over time and those who reach benchmark? 
===PAGE 10===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 6 – 
School Characteristics and Student Performance 
• How do school-level characteristics relate to the risk of being identified as at significant 
reading difficulty multiple times?  
• To what extent does district-level school segregation (as measured by indices of 
concentration of poverty and race/ethnicity) moderate the relationship of school-level 
factors to student performance? 
• How does MCAS performance differ for those just below compared with those just 
above screener benchmarks identifying students as at risk?  
• Are there schools where students are “outperforming” expectations in terms of 
achievement and/or growth within the school year, based on the demographics of 
students and/or schools or other factors? 
English Learner Student Performance 
• How many students participate in Spanish-language screening assessments? 
• What Spanish-language screening assessments are used in the state? 
• What are the characteristics of students who participate in Spanish-language screening 
assessments? 
• To what extent are students who participate in Spanish-language screening 
assessments also being taught in Spanish? 
• To what extent are through-year score patterns on Star Spanish-language assessments 
similar to patterns on English-language assessments?  
• To what extent do Spanish-language screening assessment outcomes agree with 
English-language versions? When the results of each screener diverge, are there any 
patterns to the disagreement? 
This report draws mainly on early literacy screening assessment and other administrative data. 
More details on the specific screening assessments used and details on analytic approaches are 
provided in the section on data and methods, followed by the results of analysis for each of the 
research questions and a summary discussion of limitations and findings.  
 
===PAGE 11===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 7 – 
Data and Methods 
This report uses data from multiple sources, including extant student-level data provided by 
DESE and publicly available school- and district-level data obtained from DESE’s school and 
district profiles website and other sources. The following sections provide an overview of data 
included in analysis and how it is used:  
• early literacy universal screening assessment data for K–3 students in districts that 
receive specific state grants and programs  
• the state’s Student Information Management System (SIMS) data  
• MCAS data  
• Assessing Comprehension and Communication in English State-to-State for English 
Language Learners (ACCESS for ELLs, or ACCESS) data 
• school- and district-level data from DESE and other sources 
More detail on data processing is provided in Appendix A. 
Early Literacy Universal Screening Assessment Data 
As part of early efforts to encourage screening of students for potential reading difficulties and 
early intervention, DESE approved a set of early literacy screening assessments developed by 
various publishers for use in the state, although their use was not required except by certain 
grantees. Beginning in the 2020/21 school year, recipients of certain state grants, including 
those related to early literacy screening, were required to provide their students’ early literacy 
universal screening assessment data to DESE. Over time, the number of grants and programs 
included has expanded. 
For the 2023/24 school year, screening became required for all schools in the state. Currently, 
nine early literacy screening products (some of which include multiple assessment versions that 
target younger or older learners or are available in English and Spanish) are approved for use in 
elementary schools in Massachusetts.  
Eleven English-language screening assessments are currently approved or partially approved for 
use in the state. Six Spanish-language assessments offered by publishers of the English-
language assessments are also available for district or school use, although they are not 
formally approved.2 Approved English-language products and related Spanish-language 
assessments include Acadience Reading, Amira and Amira Spanish, Dynamic Indicators of Basic 
Early Literacy Skills (DIBELS) 8th Edition, EarlyBird, FastBridge’s suite of assessments (aReading, 
earlyReading, earlyReading Spanish), i-Ready, MAP Reading Fluency and MAP Reading Fluency 
 
2 Note that data from Spanish-language assessments is included in the analysis if available. 
===PAGE 12===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 8 – 
Spanish, mCLASS and mCLASS Lectura, and Star’s suite of assessments (Star Early Literacy, 
Star Early Literacy Spanish, Star Reading, and Star Reading Spanish). Note that mCLASS and 
DIBELS 8th Edition are the same assessment— DIBELS 8th Edition users assess students with 
paper tasks, and mCLASS users deliver the same tasks online. Assessments may continue to be 
added to the approved list on a rolling basis.  
For this report, data from the following 13 specific screening assessments for grades K–3 were 
included in some or all analyses:  
• Acadience Reading 
• DIBELS 8th Edition 
• EarlyBird 
• FastBridge (aReading, earlyReading)3 
• i-Ready (Diagnostic) 
• MAP Reading Fluency 
• mCLASS (mCLASS, mCLASS Lectura) 
• Star Early Literacy (English and Spanish) 
• Star Reading (English and Spanish) 
DESE collected the K–3 screening assessment data from individual schools and districts and 
from assessment publishers (with whom districts signed data-sharing agreements to report 
data to DESE on their behalf) and provided it to the WestEd research team.  
Comparability of Screening Assessments and Reporting 
Approved early literacy screening assessments vary in many ways, including the content they 
assess, their technical characteristics, the mode of administration (e.g., paper, digital), the 
grade levels and languages targeted, costs, types of scores provided, and other aspects. 
Descriptions and details for each assessment can be found on DESE’s early literacy screening 
assessment site and in Appendix B. 
Perhaps most importantly, however, screening assessments differ in how they identify students 
who may be at risk for reading difficulty. Because the goal of screening is to identify these 
students so that additional support can be provided to them, all the screening assessments 
offer some indicator of risk. Indeed, most provide several performance benchmarks or risk 
levels (e.g., low risk, some risk, high risk or below benchmark, at benchmark, above 
benchmark). It is the lowest performance categories that are typically used to identify students 
who are “at risk” or “at significant risk.”  
 
3 FastBridge earlyReading Spanish did not include sufficient data for reporting. 
===PAGE 13===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 9 – 
In its June 2023 Early Literacy Screening Guidance, DESE recommends that schools and districts 
use publisher-provided reporting categories for each approved screening assessment in order 
to determine whether or not students are performing “significantly below relevant 
benchmarks” as required by state regulation (Table 1). For example, for DIBELS 8th Edition, 
DESE recommends using the at risk or well below benchmark performance level to identify 
students significantly below benchmark. Using these benchmarks in analysis describes the 
numbers of students who would be identified as at risk locally according to DESE’s guidance and 
for whom additional supports should be provided and information reported to parents.4 
Table 1. Publisher-Provided Language for Benchmarks That Indicate Risk Based on 
DESE Guidance 
Early literacy 
universal screening 
assessments 
At/above 
benchmark Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
DIBELS 8th Edition 
(paper version) 
Minimal/negligible 
risk 
Some risk At risk 
EarlyBird Minimal/negligible 
risk 
Some risk Flag icon 
mCLASS and DIBELS 
8th Edition (digital 
version) 
At/above benchmark Below benchmark/ 
strategic support 
Well below 
benchmark/intensiv
e intervention 
Acadience At/above benchmark Below benchmark Well below 
benchmark 
FastBridge Low/no risk Some risk High risk 
i-Ready No observed risk At some risk At risk 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
At grade level Approaching grade 
level expectations 
Flag and/or below 
grade level 
expectations 
STAR At/above benchmark Below benchmark/ 
on watch 
Intervention and 
urgent intervention 
Source: DESE. (2023). Early literacy screening guidance. 
https://www.doe.mass.edu/instruction/screening-guide.pdf 
 
4 Note that we use “at significant risk” and scoring “significantly below benchmark more than 
once” and scoring “significantly below benchmark” interchangeably in the sections that follow. 
===PAGE 14===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 10 – 
The levels that identify students as significantly below benchmark differ in how they were 
determined by assessment developers and in what they represent. The most common 
approach across screening assessments is a predictive approach that establishes a risk cut score 
by using an external criterion— generally another standardized test of reading skills— that is 
thought to be a good indicator of success in reading. A cut score is then established by 
identifying, through data analysis, students who have a low likelihood of being successful on 
that measure. One screening assessment used a judgment-based standard setting process in 
which panels of educators reviewed the assessment and decided how much of the content and 
skills measured on the test students needed to demonstrate to be “on grade level.” The risk cut 
score identifies students farthest away from being on grade level according to that test.  
Finally, benchmarks can be set based on normative data— selecting a percentile, such as the 
25th percentile, to identify the lowest-performing group of students. Assessment publishers 
may also use both types of information to set their cut scores. Benchmark levels are generally, 
although not always, based on composite scores derived from specific reading subtests 
administered at each grade level. These differences in approach to setting benchmarks mean 
there is no truly common definition of risk across screening assessments. Table 2 provides an 
overview of how the risk levels for each screening assessment included in this report were set. 
Appendix B provides additional details on the methods and samples used in this report to set 
cut scores. 
Table 2. Approaches to Setting Risk-Level Benchmarks 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Performance 
level 
indicating 
significant risk 
in reporting 
Method for 
setting risk  
cut scores 
Additional details on risk cut score 
Acadience 
Reading  
(grades K–3) 
Well below 
benchmark 
Predictive 
analysis 
Low likelihood (10% to 20% chance) of 
performance above 40th percentile on 
GRADE assessment 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition  
(grades K–3) 
Well below 
benchmark 
Predictive 
analysis 
Low likelihood of performance above 
20th percentile on DIBELS Next (grade K) 
or Iowa Assessments (grades 1–3) 
MAP Reading 
Fluency  
(grades K–3) 
Universal 
screener flag 
Predictive 
analysis 
Low likelihood of performing above 10th 
percentile on MAP Growth Reading or 
below 25th percentile on words correct 
per minute (WCPM) measure 
===PAGE 15===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 11 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Performance 
level 
indicating 
significant risk 
in reporting 
Method for 
setting risk  
cut scores 
Additional details on risk cut score 
mCLASS  
(grades K–3) 
Well below 
benchmark 
Predictive 
analysis 
Low likelihood of performance above 
20th percentile on DIBELS Next (grade K) 
or Iowa Assessments (grades 1–3) 
mCLASS Lectura  
(grades K–3) 
Well below 
benchmark 
Predictive 
analysis 
Low likelihood of performance above 
20th percentile on Woodcock-Muñoz 
Análisis de Palabras (grade K) or Star 
Early Literacy Spanish (grades 1–3) 
EarlyBird  
(grade K) 
Dyslexia risk 
flag 
Predictive 
analysis 
Low likelihood of performing above the 
16th percentile on the Kaufman Test of 
Educational Achievement, 3rd Edition 
(KTEA-3), Phonological Processing 
subtest 
FastBridge 
aReading  
(grades 2 and 3) 
High risk Predictive 
analysis 
Performance below 15th percentile 
(selected based on low likelihood of 
performing above 20th percentile on 
Gates-MacGinitie Reading Tests or MAP 
Growth Reading) 
FastBridge 
earlyReading  
(grades K and 1) 
High risk Predictive 
analysis 
Performance below 15th percentile 
(selected based on low likelihood of 
performing above 15th percentile on 
Group Reading Assessment & Diagnostic 
Evaluation [GRADE] assessment) 
i-Ready 
Diagnostic  
(grades K–3) 
At risk Judgment-
based 
standard 
setting 
Performance below grade-level 
expectations (typically one or more 
grade level below current grade); grade-
level expectations established based on 
college and career readiness standards 
Star Early 
Literacy (English 
and Spanish;  
grades K and 1)  
Intervention 
and urgent 
intervention 
Normative Performance below 25th national 
percentile 
===PAGE 16===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 12 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Performance 
level 
indicating 
significant risk 
in reporting 
Method for 
setting risk  
cut scores 
Additional details on risk cut score 
Star Reading 
(English and 
Spanish; grades  
2 and 3) 
Intervention 
and urgent 
intervention 
Normative Performance below 25th national 
percentile 
Source: WestEd’s compilation based on technical documentation and/or communication with 
publishers. (See the references for list of technical reports and related documentation.) 
The lack of a common definition of “risk” can create challenges at the school, district, and state 
levels. First, students who move across schools or districts that use different screening 
assessments may not be consistently identified as in need of additional support or services. 
In the screening assessment data, agreement rates between results for students who were 
administered different screening assessments at the same time periods ranged between 
62 percent and 85 percent (see Table B2 in Appendix B). Since schools are required to notify 
parents if students are identified as at risk, differences in how screening assessments identify 
students as at risk may also cause confusion for parents and families who could receive 
conflicting information about student performance and needs. It also complicates the ability of 
schools, districts, and the state to examine performance trends across schools and districts that 
use different screening assessments because patterns of performance may vary across 
assessments. A key goal of this analysis is to provide Massachusetts with a summary of how 
many students across the state are at risk of reading difficulties and how risk varies by student 
group, by school, and over time; therefore, selecting indicators of risk to use in reporting is an 
important analytic decision. 
However, as noted, publisher-provided benchmarks differ in how they were established, and 
prior analysis5 shows that screening assessments identify different numbers of students as at 
risk based on their benchmarks. Further, some screening assessment benchmarks are designed 
differently at different times of the year— for example, a beginning of year benchmark may be 
easier to achieve than an end-of-year benchmark on some screening assessments. 
An alternative approach is to use publisher-provided national percentile scores. DESE’s Dyslexia 
Guidelines recommend using the national 25th percentile or below as a metric to define the 
category of “significantly below relevant benchmarks.” Thus, using these scores could provide a 
more consistent way to identify how many students in Massachusetts are among the lowest 
 
5 See earlier reports on Massachusetts data available at the DESE Early Reading Performance in 
Massachusetts site.  
===PAGE 17===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 13 – 
performers relative to the national population. However, two approved English-language 
screening assessments— EarlyBird and MAP Reading Fluency— do not report national percentile 
scores for reading risk overall, nor does mCLASS Lectura. Additionally, there may be some 
variability in the samples included and in the norming procedures used for other assessments, 
which may mean that national percentiles are not fully comparable either. Further, norms may 
change over time. Publishers often update their norms in response to broader educational 
trends. For example, several publishers recently updated their prepandemic norms for the 
2024/25 school year, meaning that future analysis using normative metrics like the 
25th percentile would need to acknowledge and/or take these changes into account.6  
Table 2 also shows which grade levels for each assessment were included in this analysis. Note 
that for 2023/24 analysis, we excluded data from overall reporting for students who take 
assessments outside of the recommended grade levels (though we include additional analysis 
focused specifically on these students where possible). This change also applies to historical data 
(i.e., for analyses that compare data from prior years to 2023/24 data, we apply the same 
exclusions to prior year data). 
As part of the analysis for this year’s report, WestEd tested several different approaches to 
developing comparable metrics for reporting reading risk. This work demonstrated several 
potential methods DESE could use to create and apply consistent benchmarks indicating risk 
across assessments. However, given available data, no method works for all currently approved 
screening assessments. Each approach has other benefits and limitations as well. Details of this 
testing and its outcomes can be found in Appendix B. 
For this reason, and for consistency with 2022/23 and earlier reporting, we report on 2023/24 
data using both the publisher-provided benchmark categories and a 25th percentile or below 
metric, noting where differences in findings occur (though, as noted, national percentile data 
were not available for a few assessments). Using both types of reporting metrics provides 
complementary information that can be used to triangulate findings. Benchmark categories 
may be most commonly used in schools for identifying students and can therefore provide a 
picture of performance of students for whom schools are providing extra support, whereas 
national percentiles provide a more consistent measure across assessments and over time. 
Student-Level State Education Data  
In addition to the K–3 early literacy screening assessment data, other student-level data used in 
analysis included SIMS data, MCAS data, and ACCESS for ELLs data. These data provided 
additional information (demographic and assessment) about the K–3 students in the sample 
and were used to determine how representative the sample is of the state’s K–3 student 
 
6 Star Early Literacy and Star Reading and i-Ready Diagnostic norms were updated. In both 
cases, results show that some students whose scale scores would have been identified as 
below the 25th percentile previously would not be so identified under updated norms.  
===PAGE 18===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 14 – 
population. DESE’s guide to researchers using the statewide educational data in Massachusetts 
provides further details about which students are included/excluded in the SIMS, MCAS, and 
ACCESS data collections. A brief description of each data set follows. 
Student Information Management System (SIMS) 
SIMS collects data pertaining to various student characteristics (e.g., gender, race/ethnicity, 
English learner status, immigrant status, native language, attendance) for the majority of students 
across the state. In the SIMS data set, students can be identified using their unique state-assigned 
student identifier (SASID) or their locally assigned student identifier (LASID), which is unique at 
the district level. SIMS data are submitted three times per school year (October, March, and June) 
by districts across Massachusetts. For this analysis, data from the June collection were used to 
provide background characteristics for students in the screening assessment data unless it was 
missing. In those cases, October data were used. If a student was missing from both data sets, 
then they were included only in analyses not requiring demographic data. Only 4,057 obser-
vations (1% of cases and 1,668 students) were missing from both the October and the June SIMS 
data or do not have state student IDs available in the screening assessment data and cannot be 
matched to SIMS data. 
Only the variables relevant to K–3 students were used when creating the student-level data set 
for analysis. These variables (and their associated codes) were defined using Version 20.3 of the 
SIMS Data Handbook for the 2020/21 school year, Version 20.7 for the 2021/22 school year, 
Version 20.9 for the 2022/23 school year, and Version 30.0 for the 2023/24 school year.  
Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS) 
The MCAS data for the 2023/24 school year provide student assessment scores in mathematics 
and ELA for students in grade 3 and beyond who also have screening assessment scores in 
2023/24 or earlier. MCAS data provide a statewide measure of ELA achievement for students, 
allowing for an analysis of how well screening assessment performance relates to later 
outcomes. These data include scaled scores and achievement levels describing performance in 
reading, writing, and language relative to grade-level expectations (Not Meeting Expectations, 
Partially Meeting Expectations, Meeting Expectations, Exceeding Expectations). Note that 
English learner students in their 1st year in the United States are exempt from taking the MCAS 
ELA assessment and are therefore excluded from MCAS-related analysis in those years. 
Assessing Comprehension and Communication in English State-to-
State for English Language Learners (ACCESS for ELLs) 
English learner students in grades K–12 in Massachusetts are tested annually using the ACCESS 
assessment to satisfy federal and state laws that require measuring the English proficiency of 
these students each year. ACCESS for ELLs is used to measure student proficiency in reading, 
writing, listening, and speaking, typically in January or February of each school year. ACCESS 
assessment data provide scale scores for each of the four language domains (i.e., listening, 
===PAGE 19===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 15 – 
speaking, reading, and writing) and an associated proficiency level. Proficiency levels describe a 
student’s performance in terms of six English Language Proficiency Levels (i.e., Entering 
[Level 1], Emerging [Level 2], Developing [Level 3], Expanding [Level 4], Bridging [Level 5], and 
Reaching [Level 6]).  
Students also receive four composite scores and proficiency levels that are derived from a 
weighted combination of domain scale scores: 
• Overall: listening (15%), speaking (15%), reading (35%), and writing (35%) 
• Oral Language: listening (50%) and speaking (50%) 
• Comprehension: listening (30%) and reading (70%) 
• Literacy: reading (50%) and writing (50%) 
In addition to the scaled scores and proficiency levels, other assessment data are provided in 
the ACCESS files that can be used to evaluate the performance of English learner students, 
including progress toward proficiency and attainment of English proficiency resulting in 
students exiting English learner status.  
Publicly Available School- and District-Level Data 
Publicly available school- and district-level data for 2023/24 for Massachusetts were retrieved 
from DESE’s school and district profiles website7 to provide contextual data about the sample of 
students used in the analysis. Overall, the data pertain to the following four main categories of 
aggregate information: (a) educator characteristics (e.g., teacher race/ethnicity, teacher 
retention rate, percentage of experienced teachers), (b) student performance (e.g., MCAS 
scores, MCAS achievement levels), (c) student enrollment and demographic characteristics 
(e.g., grade-level enrollment, race/ethnicity, gender, percentage of students from low income 
backgrounds or who are economically disadvantaged, attrition rate, retention rate), and 
(d) financial (e.g., per-pupil expenditure amounts). 
Additionally, for 2023/24 analysis, WestEd utilized publicly available data from the Segregation 
Tracking Project,8 which provides several different metrics representing differences in the 
composition of schools and districts for students of different racial/ethnic and economic 
backgrounds. These data were used in analysis of the relationship between school segregation 
and early literacy performance. 
 
7 This website can be found at DESE’s School and District Profiles website. 
8 This resource can be found at The Educational Opportunity Project’s Segregation Tracking 
Project website. 
===PAGE 20===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 16 – 
Merging and Reporting of Student-, School-, and District-Level 
Data 
All student-, school-, and district-level data for the 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 
school years were combined into one primary longitudinal analytic file. Data are organized as a 
single longitudinal data set with one observation per student, per test period (i.e., beginning of 
year [BOY], middle of year [MOY], and end of year [EOY]), per screening assessment, per year. 
Some students had multiple screening assessment scores per test period because they 
participated in multiple early literacy screening assessments during the school year. Appendix A 
details the process of merging different data sources and describes the data cleaning process 
and associated business rules.  
This report follows DESE’s standard procedure for suppression of student demographic and 
assessment data: A minimum sample size of 6 students is required for reporting any student 
demographic information, and a minimum sample size of 10 students is required for reporting 
student assessment outcomes. “Sup data” represents suppressed data in this report. 
Analysis and Findings 
In this section, we describe how well the data represent students in grades K–3 in 
Massachusetts and provide updated information about student performance and progress. 
Screening Assessment Data Overview 
This subsection provides an overview of the literacy screening assessment data available for 
analysis. Specific questions to be addressed include the following: 
• How many benchmark scores are available overall and for each assessment? 
• How many students, schools, and districts are represented by the data in 2023/24? 
• How many benchmark scores are available by grade and student group? To what extent 
does the sample of students with available benchmark scores represent the overall 
grade K–3 student population in the state? 
• How many benchmark scores are available by time period in 2023/24? 
===PAGE 21===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 17 – 
How many benchmark scores are available overall and for each 
assessment? 
Data Summary 
• The data available in 2023/24 doubled from 2022/23.  
• The data include about 388,000 scores and 137,000 students, about 53 percent of the 
state’s K–3 student population.  
• Scores from 612 schools and 144 districts, about half of schools serving K–3 students.  
• The data are from 13 screening assessments. 
• Six screening assessments account for 92 percent of the data. 
Early literacy screening assessment data for the 2023/24 school year includes a total of 
388,204 records with benchmark scores (i.e., levels that identify whether students are at risk of 
reading difficulty given their grade level and time of testing, as described in Table 2).9 This 
number includes all screening assessments, grades K–3, and all time periods, because most 
assessments are administered several times per year.10 The number of records available in 
2023/24 doubled from 2022/23. 
The most commonly used assessments were mCLASS (37%) and DIBELS 8th Edition (21%), which 
together account for about 58 percent of the sample. Star assessments (Star Early Literacy and 
Star Reading) represented 15 percent of the sample, i-Ready 12 percent, and MAP Reading 
Fluency 8 percent (see Table 3 for a full list).  
Compared with 2022/23, the sample includes more mCLASS and MAP Reading Fluency records; 
fewer Star Early Literacy, Star Reading, i-Ready records; and somewhat fewer DIBELS 8th 
Edition records.  
Analyses based on the 25th percentile include a smaller number of scores than those using 
publisher-provided benchmarks because not all screening assessments report national 
percentiles. 
 
9 About 65.7 thousand (65,657) records were removed from the data due to missing benchmark 
scores or other data issues. (Most of the observations removed came from DIBELS 8th Edition 
and Star CBM data that had only subtest scores.) Almost 14 thousand (13,949) observations 
from the FastBridge and Star suite of assessments were not used for the main analyses due to 
“off grade level” testing, but they were used for sub-analyses. 
10 Almost 6,000 (5,958) students had multiple scores from different screening assessments in 
the same time period in the 2023/24 school year (e.g., Star Early Literacy, Star Early Literacy 
Spanish). 
===PAGE 22===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 18 – 
Table 3. Number and Percentage of Screening Assessment Benchmark Scores by Year and Assessment for Grades K –3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
2021/22 
(N) 
2021/22 
(%) 
2022/23 
(N) 
2022/23 
(%) 
2023/24 
(N) 
2023/24 
(%) 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric)  
(N) 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
(%) 
Acadience Reading 0 0% 4,615 3% 8,838 2% 8,838 3% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 21,686 32% 46,938 26% 79,914 21% 79,914 23% 
EarlyBird 1,360 2% 2,689 1% 4,214 1% 0 0% 
FastBridge aReading 1,291 2% 628 <1% 4,053 1% 4,053 1% 
FastBridge 
earlyReading 390 <1% 1,168 <1% 5,452 1% 5,452 2% 
MAP Reading Fluency 314 <1% 0 0% 32,414 8% 0 0% 
Star Early Literacy 12,530 19% 26,418 15% 29,337 8% 29,337 8% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 1,534 2% 0 0% 3,564 <1% 3,564 1% 
Star Reading 2,799 4% 25,977 14% 28,680 7% 28,680 8% 
Star Reading Spanish 0 0% 0 0% 1,728 <1% 1,728 <1% 
i-Ready 16,426 24% 34,784 19% 45,568 12% 45,568 13% 
mCLASS 9,383 14% 36,131 20% 143,949 37% 143,942 41% 
mCLASS Lectura 0 0% 0 0% 493 <1% 0 0% 
===PAGE 23===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 19 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
2021/22 
(N) 
2021/22 
(%) 
2022/23 
(N) 
2022/23 
(%) 
2023/24 
(N) 
2023/24 
(%) 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric)  
(N) 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
(%) 
Total 67,713 100% 179,348 100% 388,204 100% 351,076 100% 
Note. Excludes screening assessments with no data or insufficient data for reporting in 2023/24. EarlyBird includes only data for 
grade K. FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy (English and Spanish) include only grades K and grade 1. FastBridge 
aReading and Star Reading (English and Spanish) include only grades 2 and 3. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 24===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 20 – 
How many students, schools, and districts are represented by the data 
in 2023/24? 
Most screening assessments are administered at least three times per school year (i.e., BOY, 
MOY, and EOY), although the start and end dates for these time periods vary across schools and 
districts. As a result, most students have multiple scores within a school year, and some 
students have more than one score per time period if they took multiple different screening 
assessments during the school year.  
The 388,204 scores shown in Table 3 represent 137,159 unique students across 144 districts 
and 612 schools in 2023/24, about double the numbers of students, schools, and districts 
included in 2021/22 (Figure 1). About half of elementary schools and one third of school 
districts in the state are represented in the data. 
Figure 1. Between School Years 2022/23 and 2023/24, Numbers of Schools and 
Districts Included in Analysis Approximately Doubled 
 
Note. Five hundred and six schools across 136 districts are represented in data using the 
25th percentile or below metric Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
The 137,159 students represent about 53 percent of the total grade K–3 student population 
in the state in 2023/24, up from 26 percent in 2022/23.11 About 30 percent of students 
(40,473 students) across the sample have at least one benchmark score in 2022/23 and 
2023/24, and about 5 percent of students have scores for 2023/24 and 2 prior years.  
 
11 Enrollment data were retrieved from DESE’s School and District Profiles page. 
===PAGE 25===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 21 – 
Table C1 in Appendix C provides the number of students with data from each literacy screening 
assessment. Some students took multiple screening assessments within the school year, 
resulting in larger totals than the actual number of unique students. 
How many benchmark scores are available by grade and student group? 
To what extent does the sample of students with available benchmark 
scores represent the overall grade K–3 student population in the state?  
Key Findings 
• There are more Hispanic students, students from low income backgrounds, and 
English learner students in the screening data sample than there are in the state. 
• Student background characteristics differ across assessments. 
• The screening assessment sample may be somewhat lower performing than that of 
the state overall. 
The results in this report are based on a sample of students. Because the sample slightly 
overrepresents students who may be at higher risk of being identified as significantly below 
benchmark, the findings may slightly underestimate overall student performance across the 
state. 
Compared with the state, the background characteristics of students in the screening 
assessment sample include between 6 and 8 percent more students who are Hispanic, from low 
income backgrounds, and are English learners (Figure 2). About 51 percent of the sample was 
classified as from low income backgrounds compared with 43 percent in the state, about one 
quarter were identified as English learner students compared with 19 percent in the state, and 
32 percent were Hispanic compared with 26 percent in the state.  
The early literacy screening assessment data have 2 to 3 percent more Black, American Indian 
or Alaska Native, and kindergarten students and students receiving special education services 
than the state and about 2 to 3 percent fewer Asian, White, and grade 2 students. Thirty-seven 
percent of 3rd grade students met expectations on MCAS in the literacy screening assessment 
sample compared with 42 percent in the state overall.  
===PAGE 26===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 22 – 
Figure 2. Screening Assessment Data Includes More Hispanic, English learner, and 
Students From Low Income Backgrounds Than the State Population At Grades K–3 
 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). For figure data, see Figure 2 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data, October and June SIMS collection data, and state-
provided MCAS data. 
0.7%
4%
10%
17%
26%
77%
17%
19%
51%
49%
43%
42%
25%
26%
25%
24%
1%
6%
8%
20%
32%
74%
20%
25%
51%
49%
51%
37%
24%
24%
26%
26%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander
American Indian/Alaska Native
Asian
Black
Hispanic
White
Special education students
English learner students
Male
Female
Low income
MCAS meeting/exceeding expectations
(Grade 3 only)
Grade 3
Grade 2
Grade 1
Kindergarten
Percentage in Sample Percentage in State
===PAGE 27===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 23 – 
The students in the screening data sample and the state are clustered in schools, which may 
affect the resources and support available to them. Compared with schools in the state, the 
schools included in early literacy screening data had higher concentrations of Black, Hispanic, 
and English learner students and lower concentrations of White students than most schools in 
the state. They also had higher mobility and chronic absenteeism rates and lower MCAS 
proficiency rates than most schools in the state. A later section of this report enumerates 
differences in student performance by school characteristics. 
Student data are also clustered by screening assessment, and student background varies by 
assessment, showing differences in which assessments schools with different student 
populations choose. As noted in the previous section, six assessments account for 92 percent of 
the sample. Among these assessments, MAP Reading Fluency had higher proportions of 
students from low income backgrounds and English learner, Hispanic, and Black students than 
other assessments (Table 4). Fewer DIBELS 8th Edition and i-Ready test takers were from low 
income backgrounds and more were White compared with other assessments. 
Table 4. Screening Assessment Data by Student Group 
Demographic 
DIBELS 
8th 
Edition 
MAP 
Reading 
Fluency 
Star 
Early 
Literacy 
Star 
Reading i-Ready mCLASS State 
Low income 39% 69% 53% 49% 46% 55% 43% 
English learner 17% 41% 30% 25% 20% 26% 19% 
Students receiving 
special education 
services 
20% 21% 16% 20% 21% 20% 17% 
White 86% 53% 71% 77% 86% 68% 77% 
Hispanic/Latino 26% 44% 36% 31% 30% 32% 26% 
Black 10% 42% 17% 15% 13% 26% 17% 
Asian 8% 9% 6% 5% 5% 10% 10% 
American Indian or 
Alaska Native 
5% 3% 14% 10% 3% 3% 4% 
Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific 
Islander 
0% 1% 1% 1% 0% 1% 1% 
===PAGE 28===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 24 – 
Demographic 
DIBELS 
8th 
Edition 
MAP 
Reading 
Fluency 
Star 
Early 
Literacy 
Star 
Reading i-Ready mCLASS State 
Not MCAS 
meeting/exceeding 
58% 68% N/A 65% 64% 63% 58% 
MCAS 
meeting/exceeding 
42% 32% N/A 35% 36% 37% 42% 
Note. No MCAS performance is listed for Star Early Literacy because only K–1 students were 
analyzed for Star Early Literacy. Some students may appear multiple times per row if they were 
administered multiple screening assessments. Students may be included in more than one 
racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic and multiple race/ethnicity categories). 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data, October and June SIMS collection data, and 
state-provided MCAS data. 
To the extent that school- and student-level characteristics related to early literacy 
performance and progress differ between the early literacy screening assessment sample and 
the state as a whole, the description of results based on the sample may not be fully 
generalizable to the state’s K–3 population. In this case, screening assessment data were 
obtained from schools and districts participating in certain grants for which they had to 
compete, which could suggest a higher level of capacity or willingness to take on improvement 
initiatives than other districts in the state. Further, prior year analysis shows that within the 
sample of screening assessment data, students from low income backgrounds; students 
receiving special education services; and Hispanic, Black, and English learner students are more 
likely to be identified as at risk than their peers not in those groups (as are students who attend 
schools with more students in those groups). Because these groups are somewhat 
overrepresented in the screening sample, the sample may be somewhat lower performing than 
the state overall.  
An additional challenge is that, in this case, student performance measures themselves can vary 
(and are also related to student and school background characteristics). As described in the 
introduction, this year’s analysis included additional work to examine approaches to improve 
comparability of performance measures; future work could also incorporate other approaches 
to adjust for sample differences and improve generalizability.   
===PAGE 29===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 25 – 
How many benchmark scores were available by time period in 2023/24?  
Key Findings 
• Scores were evenly distributed by time period. 
• Seventy-six percent of students have scores in all three time periods. 
• More White students and fewer English learners, Black and Hispanic students, 
students from low income backgrounds, and students receiving special education 
services had three scores compared with students with only one or two scores. 
Of the 388,204 records with benchmark scores in 2023/24, about 33 percent were from the 
BOY time period, 34 percent were from the MOY time period, and 33 percent were from the 
EOY time period (Figure 3).12  
Most screening assessments had about the same number of scores in each time period, but 
about 40 percent of EarlyBird scores were from BOY compared with only 23 percent at EOY. 
mCLASS Lectura also had more scores at BOY (37%) compared with EOY (27%), while Star Early 
Literacy Spanish and Star Reading Spanish had more scores at the end of the year. Table C5 in 
Appendix C provides details. Students with different background characteristics also had about 
the same number of scores in each time period (see Table C6 in Appendix C for data by time 
period and student group). 
Figure 3. Data Included About the Same Number of Scores in Each Time Period 
 
Note. Some students are included more than once in a time period if they took multiple 
screening assessments in that time period. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
 
12 Under the 25th percentile metric, 35 percent of scores are from EOY, 33 percent from MOY, 
and 32 percent from BOY. 
===PAGE 30===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 26 – 
Just over three quarters of the K–3 students in the screening assessment data (76%) had 
benchmark scores from the same screening assessment in all three time periods (Figure 4), 
about the same as in 2022/23. About 15 percent had benchmark scores only from two time 
periods, and 9 percent had benchmarks only from a single time period. Of the students with 
two benchmark scores, most had MOY and EOY scores (Figure 4). Most students with only one 
benchmark had that score at BOY.  
Figure 4. Seventy-Six Percent of Students Had Benchmark Scores in  
All Three Time Periods 
 
Note. Students with multiple screening assessments per time period are counted for each 
screening assessment. Using the 25th percentile or below metric, about 6 percent of students 
had one score, 13 percent had two scores, and 81 percent had scores in all three time periods. 
(Although the total number of scores was smaller than the publisher-provided benchmark 
scores because several screening assessments do not report national percentiles.) Source: Early 
literacy screening assessment data. 
Students with all three scores included a higher percentage of White students and lower 
percentages of students from low income backgrounds, English learner, Black, and Hispanic 
students and students receiving special education services compared with students with only 
one or two scores (see Table C7 in Appendix C). For example, 22 percent of students with three 
scores were ELs compared with 34 percent of students with two scores and 43 percent of 
===PAGE 31===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 27 – 
students with one score. Kindergarten students were about twice as likely as students in grades 
1 to 3 to have only two scores available than three scores. Most had MOY and EOY scores, 
which may reflect a preference to begin screening kindergarteners later in the year after they 
first enter school. 
Student Performance 
There are multiple approaches to describing how many students may be at risk of reading 
difficulty based on the literacy screening assessment data. In addition to differences between 
screener benchmarks, different interest holders may be interested in answering different 
questions for different purposes— for example, at what time of year are most students at risk? 
How many students are at risk? How many students are consistently at risk? In the following 
sections, we provide information that addresses several questions of student performance: 
• How many students were identified as significantly below benchmark by time period, 
grade, and student group? 
• How many students were identified as significantly below benchmark two or three 
times overall and by grade and student group? 
• How do student and school background factors interact and relate to the likelihood of 
students being identified as significantly below benchmark more than once? 
• Which students are tested “off grade level”? How does their performance compare 
with that of other students? 
This section first describes students “significantly below benchmark” following DESE guidance13 
(refer to Table 3 for details on reporting of benchmark categories for each assessment) and 
then students at or below the 25th percentile.  
In the analysis that follows, we provide information for each time period during which students 
typically take tests (BOY, MOY, and EOY) separately and summarize information across time 
periods, describing how often students are classified as significantly below or below benchmark 
multiple times during the year.  
 
13 DESE’s early literacy screening guidance can be found in the Early Literacy Screening 
Guidance document. 
===PAGE 32===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 28 – 
How many students were identified as significantly below benchmark 
by time period, grade, and student group?  
Key Findings 
• About one third of students were identified as significantly below benchmark at each 
time point according to publisher-provided benchmarks, and about one quarter were 
identified with the 25th percentile as the risk indicator. 
• Risk rates were higher for students from low income backgrounds; students receiving 
special education services; and English learner, Black, Hispanic, AIAN, and NHPI 
students. 
• Risk rates varied from BOY to EOY by screening assessment and benchmark type. 
• Fewer former English learner students were at significant risk than current or never 
English learner students. 
As in prior reporting, using publisher-provided benchmarks shows that about one third of 
students were classified as significantly below benchmark at BOY (33%), MOY (33%) and EOY 
(30%) (Figure 5). Using the 25th percentile as a risk metric (which excludes MAP Reading Fluency, 
EarlyBird, and mCLASS Lectura) identifies about 26 percent of students as significantly below 
benchmark in any time period.14  
Figure 5. About One Third of Students Were Identified as At Significant Risk At Each 
Time Period 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Includes students with any number of scores. Percentages 
identified as significantly below benchmark for students with scores in all three time periods 
 
14 Removing Spanish-language assessments reduces the percentages of students identified as at 
risk by less than 1 percent. 
===PAGE 33===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 29 – 
are 33 percent at BOY, 32 percent at MOY, and 27 percent at EOY. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Figure 5 represents students with scores in any number of time periods. Among students who 
had scores in all three time periods, the percentages of students identified as significantly 
below benchmark varied by grade level and test over time. Figure 6 shows how percentages 
changed for the most commonly used assessments (DIBELS 8th Edition, MAP Reading Fluency, 
Star Early Literacy, i-Ready, mCLASS) for 3 as an example. Table C8 in Appendix C provides data 
for all grade levels and assessments. Note that these figures include different students at each 
grade level. For information on how individual students progress across years, see the section 
on student progress. 
The percentage of students identified as at significant risk using publisher-provided benchmarks 
generally decreased between BOY and MOY for DIBELS 8th Edition, Star Early Literacy, and 
mCLASS and generally increased for i-Ready. That is, fewer students are identified as at 
significant risk over time, except for i-Ready, for which those percentages increase likely due to 
the manner in which i-Ready sets its EOY risk cut scores to move closer to grade-level 
performance.15 Percentages decrease for MAP Reading Fluency at grades K and 1 and increase 
at grades 2 and 3. Prior reporting showed greater decreases in the percentages of students 
identified as at risk at earlier grade levels, which is also true using publisher-provided 
benchmarks in 2023/24 (again, except for i-Ready).  
The percentage of students identified as at risk— based on scoring below the 25th percentile—
either decreases or remains the same across grade levels and assessments except for mCLASS 
at grades K and 1. DIBELS 8th Edition and mCLASS show greater decreases with the publisher-
provided benchmarks than with the 25th percentile. Unlike with the publisher-provided 
benchmarks, the percentages of students identified as at risk on i-Ready decrease using the 
25th percentile. As noted, these differences between results using publisher-provided 
benchmarks and the 25th percentile are likely due to the manner in which different publishers 
set their risk benchmarks. (See Comparability of Screening Assessments and Reporting in the 
data and methods section for more information.) Because Star’s publisher-provided benchmark 
is based on the 25th percentile, percentages of students identified as at risk do not change 
using that metric.  
 
15 i-Ready documentation recommends analyzing student performance over time based on 
changes in scaled scores compared with typical changes. See, for example, description of i-
Ready student growth metrics. 
===PAGE 34===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 30 – 
Figure 6. Percentages of Students Identified as At Significant Risk Decrease Between 
BOY and EOY for Most Assessments At Grade 1 
 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 35===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 31 – 
As in prior reporting, in each time period, students from low income backgrounds; English 
learner students; students receiving special education services; and Black, Hispanic, American 
Indian or Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander students were more likely 
to be identified as at risk than their peers not in those groups (Table 5). For example, 
47 percent of students from low income backgrounds were significantly below benchmark at 
BOY compared with 20 percent of students not from low income backgrounds, meaning 
students from low income backgrounds were more than twice as likely to be identified as 
significantly below benchmark as students not from low income backgrounds. Conversely, Asian 
students were about half as likely as non-Asian students to be classified as significantly below 
benchmark. 
===PAGE 36===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 32 – 
Table 5. Percentage of Students Identified as Significantly Below Benchmark and At Relative Risk of Being Significantly 
Below Benchmark At BOY, MOY, and EOY by Student Group 
Demographic 
Significantly 
below 
benchmark 
at BOY 
Significantly 
below 
benchmark 
at MOY 
Significantly 
below 
benchmark 
at EOY 
Change from 
BOY to EOY 
Relative risk 
at BOY 
Relative risk 
at MOY 
Relative risk 
at EOY 
Low income 47% 46% 39% –7% 2.3 2.4 2.4 
Non–low income 20% 19% 16% –4% N/A N/A N/A 
Female 32% 31% 26% –6% 1.0 1.0 0.9 
Male 33% 33% 28% –5% N/A N/A N/A 
Nonbinary Sup data Sup data Sup data Sup data NC NC NC 
English learner 60% 58% 49% –11% 2.4 2.3 2.3 
Non-English 
learner 
25% 25% 21% –4% N/A N/A N/A 
Students receiving 
special education 
services 
56% 58% 53% –4% 2.1 2.2 2.5 
Students not 
receiving special 
education services 
27% 26% 21% –6% N/A N/A N/A 
White 31% 30% 25% –5% 0.8 0.8 0.8 
Non-White 39% 39% 33% –6% N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 37===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 33 – 
Demographic 
Significantly 
below 
benchmark 
at BOY 
Significantly 
below 
benchmark 
at MOY 
Significantly 
below 
benchmark 
at EOY 
Change from 
BOY to EOY 
Relative risk 
at BOY 
Relative risk 
at MOY 
Relative risk 
at EOY 
Hispanic/Latino 50% 49% 43% –7% 1.9 2.0 2.0 
Non-
Hispanic/Latino 
26% 25% 21% –5% N/A N/A N/A 
Black 41% 41% 34% –7% 1.3 1.4 1.3 
Non-Black 31% 30% 26% –5% N/A N/A N/A 
Asian 18% 18% 14% –4% 0.5 0.5 0.5 
Non-Asian 34% 33% 28% –6% N/A N/A N/A 
American Indian 
or Alaska Native 
59% 54% 50% –9% 1.9 1.8 1.9 
Non-American 
Indian or Alaska 
Native 
31% 31% 26% –5% N/A N/A N/A 
Native Hawaiian 
or Other Pacific 
Islander 
45% 44% 37% –8% NC NC NC 
Non-Native 
Hawaiian or Other 
Pacific Islander 
33% 32% 27% –5% N/A N/A N/A 
Total 33% 32% 27% –6% N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered multiple screening assessments. 
Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (i.e., Hispanic/not Hispanic and multiple race/ethnicity 
===PAGE 38===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 34 – 
categories). The relative risk ratio indicates the likelihood of a student group being classified as significantly below benchmark 
compared with students not in that group. For example, students from low income backgrounds were 2.3 times more likely than 
students who are not from low income backgrounds to be classified as significantly below benchmark at BOY. Includes only students 
with three scores. “Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students are not shown in order to protect 
student privacy. NC means that the percentage was not computed because the group made up 5 percent or less of the sample. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data.  
===PAGE 39===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 35 – 
Analyzing data with the 25th percentile as the indicator of significant risk shows the same 
patterns by student group (see Table C13 in Appendix C).  
In 2023/24, we also explored in more depth the performance of English learner students—
specifically, achievement differences between students who exited from English learner status 
(former English learners) compared with those still receiving service or who never received 
services. In general, research shows that students who exit from English learner status in early 
elementary grades tend to be high achievers overall and often are students who entered school 
with relatively higher levels of English language proficiency compared with their peers (see, 
e.g., Greenberg Motamedi, Singh & Thompson, 2016; Kieffer & Parker, 2016; Slama et al., 2017; 
Thompson, 2017). As Figure 7 shows, this trend held true among screener data as well: the 
percentage of former English learners who were deemed at risk (by any screener in any 
language) was lower at all time points than for current or never English learners, by 
comparison. 
Figure 7. The Percentage of Students Significantly Below Benchmark Is Lower Among 
Former English Learners Than Current or Never English Learners At All Time Points 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October 
and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 40===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 36 – 
How many students were identified as significantly below benchmark 
two or three times overall and by grade and student group?  
Key Findings 
• About 25 to 30 percent of students were significantly below benchmark more than 
once during the school year. 
• Between 16 and 19 percent of students were significantly below benchmark three 
times. 
• Fewer kindergarten students were significantly below benchmark multiple times than 
were students in other grades. 
• Repeated risk identification rates were higher for students from low income 
backgrounds; students receiving special education services; and English learner, Black, 
Hispanic, AIAN, and NHPI students. 
• Likelihood of being identified more than once varies by screening assessment. 
As described in earlier sections, because students are typically assessed more than once during 
the school year, there are multiple approaches to summarizing performance. One relevant 
metric is the number of students who are repeatedly identified as significantly below 
benchmark, because these students may be particularly in need of additional support. 
In the previous section, we summarized performance by grade and student groups for each 
time period. In the following sections, we focus on the performance of students with scores in 
at least two time periods who were identified as significantly below benchmark in more than 
one time period. Such analysis necessarily excludes students with only one score. About 
76 percent of students had scores in all three time periods, and about 91 percent had scores in 
at least two time periods. Focusing on students identified as significantly below benchmark 
multiple times therefore excludes about 9 percent of students because those students only had 
one score (Figure 4). 
In 2023/24, among students with at least two scores, 30 percent of students were identified as 
significantly below benchmark two or more times (Table 6). That percentage was 25 percent 
using the 25th percentile to identify students as significantly below benchmark. Despite the fact 
that this year’s screening assessment sample differs from prior year samples, these percentages 
are nearly identical to those from 2022/23.  
===PAGE 41===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 37 – 
Table 6. Percentage of Students Identified as Significantly Below Benchmark Multiple 
Times by Number of Available Scores 
Benchmark scores 
available 
Significantly below 
benchmark 
multiple times 
25th percentile or below 
multiple times 
Two benchmarks 
available 
30% (n = 6,481), 2 times 30% (n = 4,822), 2 times 
Three benchmarks 
available 
30% (n = 33,639), 2 or 3 times 
12% (n = 13,011), 2 times 
19% (n = 20,628), 3 times 
24% (n = 24,621), 2 or 3 times 
8% (n = 8,000), 2 times 
16% (n = 16,621), 3 times 
Total 30% (n = 40,120) 25% (n = 29,443) 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. The total for each column includes the number of students 
significantly below benchmark two or more times among students with two or three 
benchmarks available. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Similarly, among students with scores in all three time periods, fewer students overall were 
identified as at significant risk more than once during the school year using the 25th percentile 
as an indicator of risk compared with publisher-provided benchmarks (24% compared with 
30%). Similar to prior reporting, between 16 and 19 percent of students with all three scores 
were identified as at significant risk in all three time periods.  
Of the students who had at least two scores, fewer kindergarten students were identified as 
significantly below benchmark multiple times than were students in other grades. As was the 
case in prior reporting, students from low income backgrounds; students receiving special 
education services; English Learner students; and Black, Hispanic, American Indian or Alaska 
Native, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander students were more likely than their peers 
not in those groups to score significantly below benchmark multiple times during the school 
year (Table 7).   
===PAGE 42===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 38 – 
Table 7. Relative Risk of Being Identified as At Significant Risk Multiple Times by 
Student Group 
Demographic 
Significantly below 
benchmark  
two or more times 
Relative risk of 
significantly below 
benchmark  
two or more times 
Low income 43% 2.5 
Non–low income 17% N/A 
Female 29% 0.9 
Male 31% N/A 
English learner 56% 2.5 
Non-English learner 22% N/A 
Students receiving special education 
services 56% 2.3 
Students not receiving special education 
services 24% N/A 
White 28% 0.8 
Non-White 37% N/A 
Hispanic/Latino 47% 2.0 
Non-Hispanic/Latino 23% N/A 
Black 38% 1.4 
Non-Black 28% N/A 
Asian 16% 0.5 
Non-Asian 32% N/A 
American Indian or Alaska Native 54% 1.9 
Non–American Indian or Alaska Native 29% N/A 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific 
Islander 42% NC 
Non–Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific 
Islander 30% N/A 
Total 30% N/A 
===PAGE 43===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 39 – 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per row if they were administered multiple 
screening assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category 
(i.e., Hispanic/not Hispanic and multiple race/ethnicity categories). The relative risk ratio 
indicates the likelihood of a student group being classified as significantly below benchmark 
compared with students not in that group. For example, students from low income 
backgrounds were 2.5 times more likely than students who are not from low income 
backgrounds to be classified as significantly below benchmark multiple times. NC means that 
the percentage was not computed because the group made up 5 percent or less of the sample. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
For example, 43 percent of students from low income backgrounds were significantly below 
benchmark at least twice during the school year compared with 17 percent of students not 
from low income backgrounds. The relative risk of students from low income backgrounds 
being classified as significantly below benchmark multiple times during the school year was 
2.5 times that of students not from low income backgrounds. Asian students and White 
students were less likely than their peers to be significantly below benchmark more than once 
during the school year; about the same proportions of female and male students were 
classified as significantly below benchmark. Table C14 in Appendix C provides the percentages 
of students identified as significantly below benchmark using the 25th percentile and below 
metric. These values follow the same patterns as shown for the publisher-provided 
benchmarks. 
Across the most commonly used screening assessments (DIBELS 8th Edition, i-Ready, mCLASS, 
Star Early Literacy, MAP Reading Fluency, and Star Reading), the percentages of students 
classified as significantly below benchmark multiple times during the school year vary from 
22 percent to 43 percent using the publisher-provided benchmarks (Figure 8 and Table C15 in 
Appendix C).16 Using the 25th percentile as the indicator of significant risk results in smaller 
overall percentages of students identified as at risk, and smaller differences between the 
percentages identified by each assessment. These disparities are likely due to differences in the 
ways each screening assessment’s benchmark scores are calculated and to differences in the 
background characteristics of students participating in each assessment.  
 
16 Results of a multilevel model that examines student and school-level factors associated with 
being identified as at risk multiple times also showed differences in the likelihood of 
identification for some screening assessments. See Appendix E for details.  
===PAGE 44===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 40 – 
Figure 8. Percentage of Students Identified as At Risk More Than Once Varies by 
Screening Assessment 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. MAP Reading Fluency does not report national percentiles. For figure data, see 
Figure 8 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data.   
===PAGE 45===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 41 – 
How do student and school background factors interact and relate to 
the likelihood of students being identified as significantly below 
benchmark more than once? 
Key Findings 
• Students who experienced intersecting educational inequities related to factors like 
race/ethnicity or socioeconomic status were more likely to be repeatedly identified as 
at risk. 
• Patterns of repeated risk differed by gender and race/ethnicity. 
Early literacy screening assessments aim to identify students who are not on track to become 
successful readers and who require additional support to be so. Analysis in the prior section and 
prior reporting show disparities in performance between students with different background 
characteristics, as are often found in analysis of educational and other data, suggesting that 
current systems are not providing adequate support for all students. For example, screening 
assessment data show that students from low income backgrounds, English learner students, 
and students receiving special education services were more likely than their peers not in those 
groups to score significantly below benchmark multiple times during the school year, which 
means these students are in need of additional support.  
However, taking an intersectional approach to analysis offers an opportunity to more closely 
examine outcomes. Such an approach may inform development of policies and supports that 
better address the complexity of students’ experiences and recognize that membership in 
multiple historically marginalized groups is likely associated with disparities in achievement. 
McCall (2005) identified several different approaches to intersectional analysis. In prior 
reporting, WestEd took an “intercategorical” approach, analyzing data across student 
background categories such as low income status and race/ethnicity rather than only analyzing 
categories separately.17 This analysis used a multilevel regression modeling approach with 
interactions to examine the relationships between multiple characteristics and risk of reading 
difficulty. Results showed variation in the relationship between performance and factors like 
low income status, race/ethnicity, and gender. For example, results showed that all students 
from low income backgrounds were more likely to need additional support than students not 
from low income backgrounds, but the likelihood increased by 5 percentage points for Asian 
students and 10 percentage points for Hispanic students.  
 
17 See the brief Lemke, M., Murphy, D., Soo Ping Chow, A., & Acuña, A. (2024). Intersections: 
Student Background and Early Literacy Performance, WestEd. 
https://www.doe.mass.edu/instruction/ela/research/intersections.pdf 
===PAGE 46===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 42 – 
Using data from 2023/24, we repeated this analysis using a similar statistical model to validate 
previous findings and found very similar results. A detailed description of the statistical model 
and full model results can be found in Appendix E.  
As in prior reporting, although a pattern of increasing likelihood of being identified as at 
significant risk as background characteristics intersect is the same across student groups, the 
increases vary by gender, race/ethnicity, and other background characteristics. For example, 
female students receiving special education services were again shown to be more likely to be 
identified as at significant risk more than once during the school year across all ethnoracial 
groups, while there were no differences between males and females among non-special 
education participants (Figure 9). Other findings from prior reporting, such as the relevance of 
early childhood participation in reducing risk differences across English learner students by 
gender and race/ethnicity were also observed again. See the issue brief Intersections: Student 
Background and Early Literacy Performance (Lemke et al., 2024) for details. 
===PAGE 47===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 43 – 
Figure 9. Likelihood of Repeated Risk Identification Was Higher for Female Students 
Receiving Special Education Services Than It Was for Male Students Across 
Ethnoracial Groups 
 
 
Note. Model probabilities indicate the likelihood of being identified as significantly below 
benchmark multiple times during the school year. For example, White female students 
receiving special education services had about a 50 percent probability of being identified as 
significantly below benchmark multiple times. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data 
and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 48===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 44 – 
In last year’s and current analyses, ethnoracial categories were defined as mutually exclusive. It 
was not possible to estimate a model with non-exclusive ethnoracial categories given the small 
numbers of students in each group when combined with other background data. However, with 
a larger sample in 2023/24, it is possible to descriptively analyze data with overlapping racial 
and ethnic categories, though some caution is needed in interpreting results. 
Student racial and ethnic background is typically collected by asking parents of students or 
students themselves to identify first if they are Hispanic/Latino and then to select from other 
racial categories (e.g., White, Black, Asian). In Massachusetts, common intersections of student 
race and ethnicity are Hispanic/White, Hispanic/Black, Not Hispanic/White, Not Hispanic/Black, 
Not Hispanic/Asian, and Not Hispanic/Multiple. These intersecting categories also intersect with 
other background characteristics in variable ways, including coming from a low income 
background, being an English learner, and receiving special education services (Table 8). For 
example, 83 percent of Hispanic/Black students are classified as being from a low income 
background compared with 76 percent of Hispanic/White students and 73 percent of Not 
Hispanic/Black students. About 40 percent of Hispanic/Black and Not Hispanic/Asian students 
were classified as English learners, but Hispanic/Black English learner students were about 
twice as likely to also be classified as being from a low income background and about four times 
as likely to receive special education services as Not Hispanic/Asian students. 
Table 8. Percentage of Students From Low Income Backgrounds, English Learner 
Students, and Students Receiving Special Education Services by Race/Ethnicity 
Race/ethnicity Number % of total LI EL 
student 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
LI and EL 
student 
LI student 
and 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
Hispanic/White 26,783 19% 76% 47% 21% 40% 17% 
Hispanic/Black 5,164 4% 83% 40% 21% 36% 18% 
Hispanic/Asian 280 <1% 55% 28% 12% 19% 9% 
Hispanic/Multiple 3,657 3% 77% 43% 21% 37% 18% 
Hispanic/AIAN 4,524 3% 85% 83% 12% 71% 10% 
Hispanic/NHPI 338 <1% 85% 51% 19% 44% 17% 
Not 
Hispanic/White 
62,123 44% 28% 5% 20% 4% 8% 
===PAGE 49===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 45 – 
Race/ethnicity Number % of total LI EL 
student 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
LI and EL 
student 
LI student 
and 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
Not 
Hispanic/Black 
14,562 10% 73% 28% 22% 23% 16% 
Not 
Hispanic/Asian 
7,652 5% 34% 38% 12% 19% 5% 
Not 
Hispanic/Multiple 
6,075 4% 45% 6% 20% 4% 12% 
Not 
Hispanic/AIAN 
326 <1% 68% 44% 17% 37% 13% 
Not Hispanic/NHPI 130 <1% 62% 38% 25% 30% 20% 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per row if they were administered multiple 
screening assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June 
SIMS collection data. 
Following up on previous analyses, we again explore how identifying or being identified as a 
member of multiple student groups relates to consistent risk of reading difficulties— that is, 
being identified as significantly below benchmark more than once within a school year. For 
2023/24, we focus on common overlapping background characteristics, including 
Hispanic/White, Hispanic/Black, Hispanic/AIAN, non-Hispanic White, non-Hispanic Black, and 
non-Hispanic Asian students who are also classified as coming from low income backgrounds, 
being English learners, and/or receiving special education services. 
As seen in this year’s and previous analyses, students who receive special education services, 
are English learners, or come from a low income background are more often identified as 
significantly below benchmark more than once than are students without those backgrounds, 
and the chance of being identified as in need of support increases as these background 
characteristics intersect.  
For example, across ethnoracial groups, more students from low income backgrounds were 
identified as at significant risk than were students not from low income backgrounds 
(Figure 10). However, within students not from low income backgrounds, Hispanic White 
students were about 1.8 times as likely to be at significant risk than were non-Hispanic White 
students and about 2.9 times as likely as non-Hispanic Asian students.  
===PAGE 50===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 46 – 
Figure 10. Across Ethnoracial Student Groups, More Students From Low Income 
Backgrounds Were Identified as At Significant Risk Than Were Students Not From Low 
Income Backgrounds 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per group if they were administered multiple 
screening assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June 
SIMS collection data. 
Additionally, across ethnoracial groups, students who receive special education services and are 
also classified as from low income backgrounds are most often identified as significantly below 
benchmark, followed by students receiving special education services (particularly female 
students receiving special education services), students classified as English learners and from 
low income backgrounds, and English learner students not from low income backgrounds (see 
Appendix C for details).  
However, the pattern is the same, there are differences between students based on race and 
ethnicity. For example, as shown in Figure 11, 44 percent of Hispanic Black students were 
identified as at significant risk compared with 38 percent of non-Hispanic Black students. Data 
also show other differences within ethnoracial groups (e.g., between non-Hispanic White and 
Hispanic White students). The percentages of students identified as at risk was always smallest 
for non-Hispanic Asian students and highest for Hispanic AIAN students.  
51%
30%
29%
26%
10%
17%
62%
50%
47%
42%
27%
43%
Hispanic/AIAN
Hispanic/White
Hispanic/Black
Not Hispanic/Black
Not Hispanic/Asian
Not Hispanic/White
Percentage of Students at Significant Risk More Than Once
Non–low income          Low income
===PAGE 51===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 47 – 
Figure 11. More Hispanic Black Students Were At Significant Risk More Than Once 
Than Were Non-Hispanic Black Students 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per group if they were administered multiple 
screening assessments. LI means low income, “SpecEdSvc” means students receiving special 
education services. For figure data, see Figure 11 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data.  
===PAGE 52===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 48 – 
Which students are tested “off grade level”? How does their 
performance compare with that of other students? 
Key Findings 
• Most students taking “off grade” assessments were English learners or students who 
received special education services. 
• Students tested “off grade level” in later grades were more likely to be repeatedly 
identified as at risk. 
• Most students taking both grade-level and “off grade level” assessments were 
consistently identified as at risk. 
Several of the approved early literacy screening tools include multiple separate assessments 
designed to be used on their own or together. For example, the Star assessment suite includes 
Star Early Literacy and Star Reading, separate assignments that target different skills and, as a 
result, different grade levels. Star also offers assessments in Spanish and a curriculum-based 
measure (CBM).18 Other publishers also offer multiple assessments for different purposes or 
students. As noted in the introduction, to maximize comparability in reporting, we restricted 
Star and FastBridge reporting to include students from the grade levels for which the publisher 
or DESE recommends use of each assessment. Recommended grade levels for Star Early 
Literacy and FastBridge earlyReading are grades K–1 and grades 2 and 3 for Star Reading and 
FastBridge aReading.19 
However, publisher and DESE guidance also recommend that schools consider which 
assessments are most appropriate for students, and in 2023/24 and prior years, some data 
were reported for students using assessments outside of the recommended grade levels 
(e.g., Star Early Literacy for a grade 3 student). In this section, we examine the numbers, 
background characteristics, and performance of students taking Star Early Literacy and Star 
Reading in English by grade. A later section more closely examines the numbers, background, 
and performance of students taking assessments in Spanish and English. FastBridge “off grade 
level” test data include fewer than 10 students and are excluded from this analysis. 
Most students taking Star Early Literacy were in grades K and 1 and most students taking Star 
Reading were in grades 2 and 3 (Table 9). Students taking Star Early Literacy in later grades 
were more often students receiving special education services, English learners, or both than 
students taking Star Early Literacy in grades K and 1. For example, 41 percent of students taking 
 
18 Star CBM is not currently approved for use on its own. 
19 See Renaissance guidance for Star at the K–3 Guidance for Star Early Literacy and Star 
Reading site and Illuminate Education’s FastBridge FAQs site.  
===PAGE 53===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 49 – 
Star Early Literacy in grade 3 were receiving special education services compared with 
16 percent of Star Early Literacy test takers in grades K and 1.  
Table 9. Students Taking “Off Grade Level” Star Assessments by Student 
Background Characteristics 
Grade Assessment Number 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
EL 
student 
EL student 
and receiving 
special 
education 
services 
Not EL or 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
K Star Early 
Literacy 
5,343 15% 29% 4% 60% 
1 Star Early 
Literacy 
5,621 18% 31% 5% 56% 
2 Star Early 
Literacy 
3,132 25% 45% 8% 38% 
3 Star Early 
Literacy 
1,137 41% 52% 16% 23% 
K Star Reading 59 17% 25% 2% 59% 
1 Star Reading 1,435 14% 11% 2% 76% 
2 Star Reading 4,697 18% 23% 3% 63% 
3 Star Reading 5,575 22% 27% 5% 56% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
However, between 23 and 38 percent of students taking Star Early Literacy assessments in 
grades 2 and 3 were not receiving special education services or were English learners, 
suggesting that schools may also be administering these assessments to students for reasons 
unrelated to disability or language proficiency. Among English-proficient students not receiving 
special education services, students taking Star Early Literacy in grades 2 and 3 were about 
1.5 to 3 times as likely to be repeatedly identified as at significant risk than were students in 
grades K and 1 taking the same assessment (Table 10). Students taking Star Early Literacy in 
grade 3 were also more likely to have been at significant risk more than once the year before 
(while in grade 2). 
===PAGE 54===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 50 – 
Table 10. Percentage of Students Taking “Off Grade Level” Star Assessments Identified 
as At Significant Risk Multiple Times 
Grade Assessment All 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
EL student 
EL student 
and 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
Not an EL 
student, not 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
K Star Early 
Literacy 
26% 42% 55% 62% 11% 
1 Star Early 
Literacy 
37% 60% 66% 79% 16% 
2 Star Early 
Literacy 
64% 88% 79% 94% 33% 
3 Star Early 
Literacy 
75% 92% 90% 95% 25% 
K Star Reading Sup data Sup data Sup data Sup data Sup data 
1 Star Reading 6% 21% 13% 27% 4% 
2 Star Reading 29% 60% 51% 70% 16% 
3 Star Reading 34% 64% 69% 85% 12% 
Note. “Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students are not 
shown in order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and 
October and June SIMS collection data. 
Most students taking Star Reading were in grades 2 and 3, but students taking it at earlier 
grades were somewhat less likely to be receiving special education services than were students 
in grades 2 and 3, and at grade 1, they were less likely to be English learners. They were also 
less likely to be identified as at significant risk on Star Reading than were students in higher 
grade levels, suggesting that these students may be advanced learners. 
Many students taking “off grade” assessments also took typical grade-level assessments in the 
same time period— 88 percent of grade 3 students took Star Early Literacy and 69 percent of 
grade 2 students also took Star Reading. In these cases, about 84 percent of students were 
identified as significantly below benchmark on both assessments (Table 11). This finding would 
seem to suggest that in general, no new information about identification is being gained by 
===PAGE 55===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 51 – 
giving students both assessments, though in about 15 percent of cases, students would be 
identified as at significant risk on one assessment and not the other.  
Table 11. Percentage of Students Identified as Significantly Below Benchmark on Star 
Early Literacy and Star Reading 
Assessments BOY  
(N, % agree) 
MOY  
(N, % agree) 
EOY  
(N, % agree) 
Star Early Literacy 
(English) and 
Reading (English) 
1,870 
83% 
1,998 
84% 
2,046 
83% 
Note. Includes students with any number of scores (i.e., agreement is within time period). 
Including only students with all three scores decreases sample size to 628 and increases 
agreement rate to 87 percent at BOY, 90 percent at MOY, 89 percent at EOY. Source: Early 
literacy screening assessment data.  
Student Progress 
In the previous sections, we reported on student performance at BOY, MOY, and EOY and 
across time periods and on students who performed significantly below benchmark at multiple 
time periods. In this section, we examine how individual student performance changes over the 
course of the year and across years. Specifically, we address the following questions: 
• How does student performance change as the school year progresses? Do students 
identified as significantly below benchmark remain significantly below benchmark? 
• How does student progress vary by grade and student background characteristics? 
• How does student performance change across grade levels? Do students at risk remain 
at risk across years? 
• How does student performance change over the summer? 
• What is the relationship between screening assessment scores and MCAS performance 
in grade 3? 
• How do students identified as at risk in grades 1, 2, and 3 perform on MCAS in later 
grades (e.g., 3, 4, and 5)? Among students identified as at risk early (e.g., beginning of 
grade 1), how does MCAS performance in grade 3 differ between those who remain at 
risk over time and those who reach benchmark? 
===PAGE 56===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 52 – 
How does student performance change as the school year progresses? 
Do students identified as significantly below benchmark remain 
significantly below benchmark? 
Key Findings 
• Students mostly remain either significantly below benchmark or at benchmark across 
the school year. 
• Most students who get on track and meet benchmark by MOY stay on track, whereas 
most who fall off track stay off track through EOY. 
As in prior reporting, most students who were significantly below benchmark in one time 
period were also significantly below benchmark in later time periods. Among students who had 
a score in all three time periods of the school, 75 percent of students who were identified as 
significantly below benchmark at BOY were also significantly below benchmark at MOY, and 
76 percent of the students who performed significantly below benchmark at BOY and MOY 
were also at that level at EOY (Figure 12).  
Conversely, the vast majority of students who were not identified as significantly below 
benchmark at the beginning of the year were also not identified as such at the end of the year. 
Also, most students who improved their performance between BOY and MOY maintained that 
performance at EOY. About 25 percent of students who were classified as significantly below 
benchmark at BOY improved their performance at MOY, and of these students, the vast 
majority (83%) were not significantly below benchmark at EOY.  
However, most students who were identified as at significant risk for the first time at MOY 
remained at significant risk at EOY. Of the 11 percent of students who were not significantly 
below benchmark at BOY but were at MOY, 58 percent continued to be significantly below 
benchmark at EOY.  
===PAGE 57===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 53 – 
Figure 12. Most Students Who Started Significantly Below Benchmark Were Still 
Significantly Below Benchmark in Later Time Periods 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Only students with scores across each time period (76% of 
students) were included in the figure. See Figure 12 in Appendix F for a full description of this 
figure. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Using the 25th national percentile to identify students as at significant risk shows the same 
patterns of performance, though fewer students were identified as at significant risk at BOY 
(Figure D1 in Appendix D). 
Figure 12 divides student performance into two categories: significantly below benchmark and 
not significantly below benchmark. However, because most assessments include multiple risk 
levels, some students identified as not significantly below benchmark might still be at some risk 
of reading difficulty.  
Figure 13 displays progress using these more detailed categories of risk. As in the earlier 
analysis, students who met benchmark or who were significantly below benchmark at BOY 
typically remained at those levels at MOY and EOY, but students at a lower level of risk (“below 
benchmark” but not “significantly below benchmark”) have more mixed results. 
===PAGE 58===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 54 – 
Figure 13. Most Students Who Improved Performance Between BOY and MOY 
Maintained That Improvement 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Only students with scores across each time period (76%) were 
included in the figure. See Figure 13 in Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Student performance followed several patterns. Students who were below benchmark at the 
beginning of the year (BOY)— represented by the yellow segment in Figure 13— showed mixed 
trajectories. By the middle of the year (MOY), their outcomes were fairly evenly split: About 
one third had improved to meet benchmark, one third remained below benchmark, and one 
third declined further, falling into the significantly below benchmark category. By EOY, 
approximately half of students reached benchmark, while the remainder were evenly divided 
between those still below benchmark and those significantly below. 
===PAGE 59===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 55 – 
Students who fell off track at MOY were unlikely to recover by EOY. For example, among the 
12 percent of students who were on track at BOY but dropped below benchmark at MOY, about 
half continued to perform below or significantly below benchmark by the end of the year.  
Conversely, students who improved between BOY and MOY were more likely to succeed by 
EOY.  
• Students who were below benchmark at BOY but reached benchmark at MOY were 
nearly twice as likely to meet benchmark at EOY compared with those who remained 
below benchmark at both BOY and MOY. 
• Students who began the year significantly below benchmark but met benchmark by 
MOY were 
- 1.6 times more likely to meet benchmark at EOY than students who only 
improved to just below benchmark at MOY and 
- 7.7 times more likely to meet benchmark than students who remained 
significantly below benchmark throughout the year. 
How does student progress vary by grade and student background 
characteristics? 
Key Findings 
• Fewer students at later grade levels get on track after being identified as significantly 
below benchmark than do students in earlier grade levels. 
• More English learner students, students from low income backgrounds, students 
receiving special education services, and non-White and non-Asian students were 
significantly below benchmark at EOY after being identified at BOY or MOY than were 
their peers not in those groups. 
Among students with scores at all three time points, the percentage who remained significantly 
below benchmark after being identified as such at BOY increased across grade levels, consistent 
with prior findings. For instance, 43 percent of kindergarten students identified as significantly 
below benchmark at BOY remained in that category at EOY compared with 80 percent of grade 
3 students (Figure 14). Grade 3 students were approximately 1.9 times more likely than 
kindergarten students to remain significantly below benchmark at EOY if they began the year in 
that category; grade 2 students were 1.6 times more likely, and grade 1 students were 1.3 times 
more likely. Notably, students in the earlier grades were more likely to meet benchmark by 
EOY, even if they started the year significantly below benchmark. 
Additionally, as shown in prior analyses, more English learner students, students from low 
income backgrounds, students receiving special education services, and non-White and non-
===PAGE 60===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 56 – 
Asian students were significantly below benchmark at EOY after being identified as such at BOY 
than were their peers not in those groups (Figure 14). For example, 66 percent of students from 
low income backgrounds who were significantly below benchmark at BOY were still significantly 
below benchmark at EOY compared with 51 percent of students not from low income 
backgrounds. Similarly, among students who started the year below benchmark (but not 
significantly below), fewer students from low income backgrounds, students receiving special 
education services, and English learner students improved and met benchmark at EOY than did 
their peers not in those groups. 
===PAGE 61===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 57 – 
Figure 14. English Learner Students, Students From Low Income Backgrounds, and 
Students Receiving Special Education Services Were More Likely to Remain 
Significantly Below Benchmark From BOY to EOY Compared With Peers Not in Those 
Groups 
 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race categories). Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and 
June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 62===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 58 – 
How does student performance change across grade levels? Do 
students at risk remain at risk across years? 
Key Findings 
• Most students who were significantly below benchmark at EOY in grades K and 1 were 
still significantly below benchmark 2 years later. 
• More students in grades 2 and 3 remained significantly below benchmark across years 
than did students in grades K and 1. 
• Students who were English learners, from low income backgrounds, Hispanic, and 
receiving special education services were more likely to remain significantly below 
benchmark across years. 
In this section, we examine changes in performance for students with scores from multiple 
years. Prior analysis focused on changes in performance over a single year— between EOY 
2021/22 and EOY 2022/23. In 2023/24, we can track student performance for some students 
over 2 years. Additionally, in 2023/24 we examine performance from EOY of 1 year to BOY of 
the next to explore how student performance may change over the summer.  
In total, 29,826 (about 23% of the scores in 2023/24) had EOY scores in 2023/24 and 1 year 
earlier (Tables 12 and 13). There were 4,272 students who had scores at EOY in 2021/22, 
2022/23, and 2023/24 on the same assessment. 
Table 12. Number of Students With EOY Scores Over 1 Year 
Students with scores from EOY 
2022/23 and EOY 2023/24  
(EOY 1 year later) 
Number 
Grade K to grade 1 11,305 
Grade 1 to grade 2 7,776 
Grade 2 to grade 3 10,745 
Total 29,826 
Note. Screening assessment data are available only for students in grades K–3, so we cannot 
track scores 1 year later for students in grade 3. Source: District-provided early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 63===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 59 – 
Table 13. Number of Students With EOY Scores Over 2 Years 
Students with scores from EOY 
2021/22, 2022/23 and 2023/24 
(EOY 2 years later) 
Number 
Grade K to grade 2 2,263 
Grade 1 to grade 3 2,009 
Total 4,272 
Note. Screening assessment data are available only for students in grades K–3, so we cannot 
track scores 2 years later for students who were screened in grades 2 or 3. Source: District-
provided early literacy screening assessment data. 
Of the students who had scores in 2022/23 and 2023/24, about one quarter were identified as 
at significant risk at EOY of 2022/23. By EOY of 2023/24, most of these students (74%) were still 
at significant risk (Figure 15). 
As in previous analyses, more students in later grades remained significantly below benchmark 
across years than did students in earlier grades. For example, 65 percent of students who 
ended kindergarten significantly below benchmark were still significantly below benchmark at 
the end of grade 1 compared with 81 percent of grade 1 students who moved to grade 2 and 
78 percent of grade 2 students who moved to grade 3.20  
 
20 Using the 25th percentile and below to identify students as at significant risk shows a similar 
pattern (62% of grade K students remained significantly below benchmark at the next grade 
level compared to 70% of grade 1 students and 73% of grade 2 students). 
===PAGE 64===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 60 – 
Figure 15. More Students At Higher Grade Levels Stayed At Risk from Grade to Grade 
Than Students At Lower Grade Levels 
 
Note. Graph shows EOY to EOY performance across grades. For example, 65 percent of students 
significantly below benchmark at EOY in kindergarten were still significantly below benchmark 
at EOY of grade 1. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Figure 15 shows students who had scores in 2022/23 and 2023/24. Of students who had EOY 
scores in kindergarten or grade 1 that were significantly below benchmark and EOY scores both 
1 and 2 years later, most were also still classified as significantly below benchmark (Figure 16). 
Again, however, fewer students who were identified earlier were at significant risk than 
students identified later. 
===PAGE 65===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 61 – 
Figure 16. Most Students Identified as At Significant Risk in Grades K or 1 Were Still 
Significantly Below Benchmark 1 and 2 Years Later 
 
Note. Graph shows EOY to EOY performance across grades. For example, 64 percent of students 
significantly below benchmark at EOY in kindergarten were still significantly below benchmark 
at EOY of grade 1, and 58 percent were still significantly below benchmark at EOY of grade 2. 
Source: District-provided early literacy screening assessment data. 
More English learner students, students from low income backgrounds, students receiving 
special education services, and Hispanic students remained significantly below benchmark 
across grade levels and years than did their peers not in those groups (Figures D5–D14 in 
Appendix D). For example, 72 percent of Hispanic students who ended kindergarten 
significantly below benchmark remained at that level at the end of grade 1 compared with 
58 percent of non-Hispanic students.  
These results indicate that students who finish a school year below benchmark are likely to 
continue below benchmark in subsequent years. This risk increases as students move from 
kindergarten through grade 3, highlighting the need for early, targeted interventions to disrupt 
these trajectories. They also indicate that the current supports, interventions, and 
opportunities provided to students performing below benchmark have not yet fully achieved 
desired improvements in student outcomes and progress. 
===PAGE 66===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 62 – 
How does student performance change over the summer? 
Key Findings 
• Measuring summer changes in student risk is challenging due to differences in 
assessments and shifting benchmarks. 
• Results vary across assessments. Publisher benchmarks generally show summer 
declines, whereas percentile benchmarks indicate stable or improved performance, 
highlighting the need for further research. 
Focusing on a shorter time period— between EOY of 1 year and BOY of the next— addresses a 
common question about how student performance may change over the summer. However, 
changes in assessments, score scales across grade levels, and shifts in risk benchmarks over time 
complicate the interpretation of results. Figure 17 (next page) shows data for the most commonly 
used screening assessments for students with scores at EOY and the following BOY between 
grades K and 1.  
In general, the publisher-provided benchmarks appear to suggest that student performance 
declines over the summer, such that the percentages of students identified as at significant risk 
at the beginning of the school year are larger than they were at the end of the year before. 
A few screening assessments show a different pattern (i-Ready, FastBridge earlyReading), in 
which the percentages of students identified as at risk decreases between EOY and BOY of the 
following year, which may be due at least in part to how those publishers set their benchmarks. 
However, examining the same data with the 25th percentile as the benchmark to identify 
students as at significant risk, however, shows the percentages staying the same or decreasing 
between EOY and the following BOY except for Star Early Literacy. Both FastBridge and Star 
Early Literacy (which use normative metrics as their publisher-provided benchmark) continue to 
show the same patterns of student performance, with FastBridge percentages of students at 
significant risk decreasing from EOY to the following BOY and Star Early Literacy increasing. 
Taken together, the inconsistent patterns suggest that additional research may be needed to 
determine the most accurate approaches to analyzing changes in the percentages of students 
identified as significantly below benchmark, particularly when analyzing transitions between 
grade levels. 
===PAGE 67===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 63 – 
Figure 17. Differences in Benchmarks Across Assessments Make Assessing Changes 
From EOY to the Following BOY Difficult to Measure 
 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 68===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 64 – 
What is the relationship between screening assessment scores and 
MCAS performance in grade 3? 
Key Findings 
• The 2023/24 analysis confirms prior findings that show that most screening 
assessment benchmarks align with the MCAS level of partially meeting performance. 
• Most students identified as significantly below benchmark on screening assessments 
were not proficient on MCAS. 
• About one third of students who met publisher benchmarks were not proficient on 
MCAS. 
Prior analyses examined the relationship between student performance on screening 
assessments and later performance on MCAS in several different ways: examining the strength 
and accuracy of the predictive relationship between screener scores and MCAS performance 
through statistical analysis, linking screener benchmarks directly to the MCAS scale, and cross-
tabulating the percentages of students at each MCAS performance level by screening 
assessment performance.  
This analysis showed that despite differences between screening assessments and MCAS, scores 
correlate between 0.64 to 0.84 depending on the screening assessment, time of year, and grade 
level when administered. Linking to the MCAS scale shows that most screening assessment 
benchmarks identifying students as at significant risk of reading difficulty map to the MCAS 
Partially Meeting Expectations performance level. Additionally, screening assessment scores do 
discriminate between students who will meet and not meet MCAS proficiency standards, with 
classification accuracy ranging from about 75 to 89 percent. Unsurprisingly, given these findings, 
most students identified as significantly below benchmark on screening assessments did not 
meet expectations on MCAS. 
The 2023/24 data show these same patterns. Table B74 in Appendix B provides MCAS-linked 
values. Figure 18 shows the MCAS performance of students who were identified as significantly 
below benchmark at BOY of grade 2 or grade 3 compared with peers who were not. About 
11 percent of students in grade 2 and about 4 percent of students in grade 3 who were 
identified as significantly below benchmark at BOY met or exceeded standards on MCAS, with 
about one half in the partially meeting category and the remainder in the not meeting category. 
More students who were identified as significantly below benchmark in grade 2 met or partially 
met MCAS standards than did students who were identified as significantly below benchmark in 
grade 3. As described in the Comparability of Screening Assessments and Reporting section, 
most benchmarks indicating reading risk map to the MCAS partially meeting performance level, 
so these results are not surprising. However, as also previously shown, benchmarks that 
indicate little to no risk do not necessarily mean that all students above them will meet MCAS 
===PAGE 69===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 65 – 
standards. In 2023/24, about 65 percent of students who met screening assessment 
benchmarks also met MCAS standards (meaning about one third did not). 
Figure 18. Relatively Few Students Identified as At Significant Risk on Grade 2 and 
Grade 3 Screening Assessments Met or Exceeded Expectations on Grade 3 MCAS ELA 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple assessments. For figure data, see Figure 18 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and state-provided MCAS data. 
How do students identified as at risk in grades 1, 2, and 3 perform on 
MCAS in later grades (e.g., 3, 4, and 5)? Among students identified as 
at risk early (e.g., beginning of grade 1), how does MCAS performance 
in grade 3 differ between those who remain at risk over time and 
those who reach benchmark?  
Key Findings 
• Among students identified as at risk at EOY in 2021/22, few were proficient on MCAS 
2 years later. 
• More students who were identified as significantly below benchmark in earlier grades 
met MCAS expectations than those identified at later grades. 
Prior analysis focused on grade 3 MCAS performance for students in grades 2 and 3 given the 
smaller numbers of students with data beyond grade 3. In 2023/24, additional data are 
===PAGE 70===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 66 – 
available to track student MCAS performance in later grades and also to examine the 
performance of multiple cohorts of students into grade 3 (Cohorts 2 and 3). Specifically, we can 
now examine grade 4 MCAS performance for two groups of students (Cohorts 3 and 4), 
examine Grade 5 performance for one group (Cohort 4), and examine MCAS performance both 
1 and 2 years after students took screening assessments (Table 14).  
Table 14. Available Data in 2023/24 
Year K 1 2 3 4 5 
2020/21 Limited data Limited data Limited data Limited data Limited data Limited data 
2021/22 Cohort 1 Cohort 2 Cohort 3 Cohort 4 No screening 
data 
No screening 
data 
2022/23 Cohort 5 Cohort 1 Cohort 2 Cohort 3 Cohort 4 No screening 
data 
2023/24 Cohort 6 Cohort 5 Cohort 1 Cohort 2 Cohort 3 Cohort 4 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and state-provided MCAS data. 
Among students identified as at risk at EOY in 2021/22, few met expectations on MCAS 2 years 
later, but as in prior analysis, more students who were identified as significantly below 
benchmark in earlier grades met expectations than did those who were identified later. Eleven 
percent of students identified in grade 1 met expectations by grade 3 compared with 
10 percent of those identified in grade 2 and tested in grade 4, and only 6 percent of those 
identified in grade 3 tested in grade 5 (Figure 19). Similarly, more students who were identified 
as significantly below benchmark at grade 2 in either 2021/22 or 2022/23 met expectations as 
3rd graders than did students identified at grade 3 in 2021/22 or 2022/23 as 4th graders (about 
10% compared with 5%).  
===PAGE 71===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 67 – 
Figure 19. Rates of Meeting or Exceeding on MCAS Higher for Students Identified as At 
Risk in Earlier Grades 
 
Note. Using the 25th percentile as an indicator of risk, percentages meeting or exceeding 
expectations on MCAS are 7 percent (grades 1 to 3), 6 percent (grades 2 to 4), and 2 percent 
(grades 3 to 5). Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and state-provided MCAS data. 
To further examine patterns of screening assessment and MCAS performance, we analyzed 
data for a group of students who were identified as at risk early (BOY of grade 1), creating four 
categories: students who never got on track (i.e., never met benchmark) prior to grade 3, 
students who first got on track (i.e., met benchmark) at EOY of grade 1, students who first got 
on track at BOY of grade 2, and students who first got on track at EOY of grade 2. Not all 
students who met benchmark at these time periods stayed at benchmark; some students met 
benchmark but then were identified as at risk or at significant risk in a subsequent time period. 
Nonetheless, the students did get on track at least temporarily prior to MCAS and did so at 
different times.  
Overall, using publisher-provided benchmarks, between 41 and 59 percent of students who 
met benchmark at some point after being identified as at risk at grade 1 BOY met expectations 
on MCAS compared with only 15 percent of students who never met benchmark in grades 1 or 
2 (Tables 15 and 16). Using the 25th percentile and the 40th percentile as indicators of 
significant risk and some risk, the percentages of students who met expectations on MCAS 
ranged from 18 to 34 percent, with students who got on track earlier more likely to meet 
expectations on MCAS (Figure 20). Differences between publisher benchmarks within and 
across grade levels likely explain differences in the patterns of performance. 
===PAGE 72===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 68 – 
Table 15. Pathways for Students Identified as At Risk At BOY Grade 1 to Grade 3 MCAS, 
Publisher Benchmarks 
Time period and 
grade when  
first on track 
Number % of students 
% who met or 
exceeded 
expectations on 
MCAS 
On track EOY G2 209 9% 41% 
On track BOY G2 143 6% 59% 
On track EOY G1 768 33% 50% 
Never on track 1,178 51% 15% 
Total 2,298 100% 32% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table 16. Pathways for Students Identified as At Risk At BOY Grade 1 to Grade 3 MCAS, 
National Percentiles 
Time period and 
grade when  
first on track 
Number % of students 
% who met or 
exceeded 
expectations on 
MCAS 
On track EOY G2 80 8% 18% 
On track BOY G2 103 10% 21% 
On track EOY G1 422 42% 34% 
Never on track 396 40% 5% 
Total 1,001 100% 20% 
Note. National percentile thresholds used in analysis were 25th and below for significant 
risk/significantly below benchmark and 40th percentile for at risk/below benchmark.  
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
The most common pathways for students identified as below benchmark at BOY in grade 1 
were to remain at risk through the remainder of grade 1 and grade 2 (“never on track”) or to 
get on track by end of grade 1 (“on track EOY G1”). In total, over 80 percent of students 
followed these patterns. Only a small number of students got on track anytime after grade 1. 
===PAGE 73===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 69 – 
Among students who met benchmark, those who remained at benchmark were more likely to 
meet expectations on MCAS.  
Figure 20. Students Who Get On Track and Who Get On Track Earlier Based on 
Screening Assessment Data Have Much Higher MCAS Meeting Expectation Rates Than 
Do Students Who Never Meet Screener Benchmarks 
 
Note. Not all students who met benchmark at each time period stayed at benchmark. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and state-provided MCAS data. 
Along with other data, these findings once again point to the importance and benefit of helping 
students meet benchmark as early as possible, though it is important to note that differences in 
screening assessment benchmarks mean that performance pathways to MCAS may not be 
perfectly comparable across screening assessments. 
School Characteristics and Student Performance 
Key Findings 
• School-level enrollment of students from low income backgrounds was significantly 
associated with higher rates of repeated reading risk identification. Schools with 
higher populations of English learners showed a marginal association with increased 
risk. 
• District-level segregation measures were highly correlated with school characteristics. 
• One racial segregation index (White–Minority isolation) was modestly but significantly 
associated with increased student risk after adjusting for other factors. 
• Students just above and students just below benchmark cut scores showed similar 
MCAS outcomes, suggesting interventions might help maintain— but not significantly 
===PAGE 74===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 70 – 
improve— performance among at-risk students or that measurement limitations 
prevent detection of effects of any interventions. 
• Some schools notably outperformed similar schools based on student demographics 
and resources, demonstrating lower risk rates than predicted by statistical models. 
Earlier sections of this report focus on student-level performance and progress. However, 
research has long shown that school-level factors are associated with individual student 
performance. The characteristics of the communities in which schools are located, the 
backgrounds of the families of students in different schools, and the actions of and resources 
available to schools themselves can all influence student opportunities and learning. 
Prior descriptive analysis of screening assessment data (see the Opportunity Gaps issue brief 
[Lemke et al., 2023]) showed that students enrolled in schools with the highest mobility rates, 
lowest attendance rates, highest discipline rates, fewest experienced teachers, lowest teacher 
retention rates, and highest percentages of historically marginalized student groups were more 
likely to be below benchmark and to stay there from BOY through EOY than were their peers in 
schools without those characteristics. Additional multilevel modeling analysis also showed that 
students in schools with above-average percentages of students from low income backgrounds 
and below-average teacher retention and student attendance rates were more likely to be 
identified as significantly below benchmark than were students in average schools.  
In 2023/24, new analyses aimed to provide additional information about how school-level and 
district-level factors may influence student performance. Questions to be addressed include the 
following: 
• How do school-level characteristics relate to the risk of being identified as at significant 
reading difficulty multiple times?  
• To what extent does district-level school segregation (as measured by indices of 
concentration of poverty and race/ethnicity) moderate the relationship of school-level 
factors to student performance? 
• How does MCAS performance differ for those just below compared with those just 
above screener benchmarks identifying students as at risk?  
• Are there schools where students are “outperforming” expectations in terms of 
achievement and/or growth within the school year, based on the demographics of 
students and/or schools or other factors? 
===PAGE 75===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 71 – 
How do school-level characteristics relate to the risk of being identified 
as at significant reading difficulty multiple times?  
The multilevel statistical model described in the Student Performance section and Appendix E 
also examined how school-level factors relate to students’ likelihood of being identified as 
significantly below benchmark more than once during the school year. 
The model included four school-level variables: 
• Percentage of students from low income backgrounds 
• Student mobility rate (measured as schoolwide student stability) 
• Average student attendance rate 
• Percentage of English learner students 
Among these factors, the percentage of students from low income backgrounds in a school 
showed a strong association with repeated risk identification. Specifically, for every one 
standard deviation increase in the percentage of students from low income backgrounds (about 
25 percentage points), the odds of a student being identified as at risk multiple times increased 
by 37 percent (Odds ratio = 1.37, p < .001). 
Other school-level variables (student mobility, attendance rate, and percentage of English 
learner students) did not reach conventional levels of statistical significance, though some 
showed marginal associations. For example, higher attendance rates were modestly associated 
with a lower likelihood of repeated identification (p = .06), while schools with higher 
percentages of English learner students showed a trend toward increased risk (p = .06). These 
patterns may merit further investigation but did not represent statistically significant effects in 
this model. 
To what extent does district-level school segregation (as measured by 
indices of concentration of poverty and race/ethnicity) moderate the 
relationship of school-level factors to student performance? 
Schools and their districts help shape the conditions for student learning. Segregation by 
race/ethnicity and income can influence students’ access to opportunities, including 
experienced teachers, rigorous coursework, and adequate resources, all factors known to 
impact academic achievement and long-term outcomes (e.g., Owens, 2018; Reardon, 2016). 
To explore these dynamics, we incorporated measures of district-level school segregation into 
our analysis of factors predicting students’ repeated identification as significantly below 
benchmark. Using 2023/24 data and segregation indices from the Education Opportunity 
Project at Stanford University (Reardon et al., 2025), we examined the extent to which patterns 
of racial and income-based school segregation at the district level correspond to differences in 
school composition and risk, after adjusting for student and school-level attributes. 
===PAGE 76===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 72 – 
These segregation indices quantify the extent to which students from different groups attend 
school together within a given district. Values range from 0 to 1, with higher values indicating 
greater isolation. For example, a Black-White isolation index of 0.70 indicates that Black 
students attend schools where, on average, 70 percent of the student body (considering only 
Black and White students) is Black. 
Table 17 shows how segregation indices correlate with key school-level characteristics. Racial 
segregation (e.g., White–Black, White–Hispanic) is strongly negatively correlated with indicators 
such as the percentages of students from low income backgrounds (e.g., –0.81), English learner 
students (e.g., –0.69), and high-need students (e.g., –0.84). These patterns suggest that 
decreasing concentrations of White students at the district level are associated with higher 
school-level percentages of historically underserved student groups. District-level school racial 
segregation also shows moderate to strong positive associations with school conditions 
typically associated with higher achievement, such as higher attendance rates and teacher 
retention, particularly for White–Black and White–Hispanic indices. 
In contrast, income-based segregation (e.g., comparing free/reduced-price lunch students to 
those not eligible) is positively correlated with school-level socioeconomic and linguistic 
diversity. For example, the FRL–non-FRL segregation index correlates at 0.90 with percentage of 
students from low income backgrounds and 0.67 with percentage of English learners. These 
findings suggest that income segregation in schools within a district often coincides with 
concentrations of students in schools who often face systemic barriers to educational 
opportunity. 
Because the segregation indices are correlated with one another, we selected one racial 
segregation measure (White–Minority isolation) and one income-based measure (FRL–non-FRL 
isolation) for inclusion in a multilevel logistic regression model predicting repeated risk 
identification.21 These variables were added to the model described earlier that already 
included student and school-level predictors. 
In this model, White–Minority segregation was modestly but significantly associated with 
increased risk (estimate = 0.12, t = 2.26, p = .02), indicating that students in more racially 
segregated contexts were slightly more likely to be identified as significantly below benchmark 
multiple times. The FRL–non-FRL segregation measure, however, was not statistically significant 
(p = .41). 
These results suggest that within district segregation may influence student outcomes primarily 
through its effects on school composition, many examples of which (e.g., concentration of 
students from low income backgrounds, percentage of English learner students) were already 
included in the model. While district-level school segregation measures added some 
 
21 According to Education Opportunity project documentation, “Minority” includes Black, 
Hispanic, and Native American students (Documentation for Segregation Estimates, 
Segregation Explorer Version 1.0). 
===PAGE 77===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 73 – 
explanatory value, especially for racial isolation, their incremental effect was relatively small 
when controlling for school-level characteristics. 
===PAGE 78===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 74 – 
Table 17. Correlations Between School Attributes and District-Level School Segregation Measures 
Segregation index 
measure % churn % LI 
students 
% EL 
students 
% avg 
attendance 
rate 
% 
students 
disciplined 
% teacher 
retention 
% high 
needs 
%  
stability 
Avg 
absences 
White— Black –0.56 –0.68 –0.51 0.47 –0.23 0.34 –0.68 0.54 –0.45 
White— Hispanic –0.65 –0.81 –0.69 0.59 –0.34 0.41 –0.82 0.61 –0.57 
White— Asian –0.31 –0.19 –0.46 0.08 –0.09 0.19 –0.30 0.31 –0.06 
Seg Wht— NAM –0.19 –0.38 –0.32 0.22 –0.08 0.22 –0.38 0.20 –0.22 
Seg Wht— Min –0.66 –0.82 –0.69 0.58 –0.34 0.41 –0.84 0.62 –0.55 
Seg WAS— Min –0.64 –0.83 –0.67 0.58 –0.34 0.41 –0.83 0.59 –0.56 
White— Non-White –0.65 –0.76 –0.70 0.52 –0.31 0.40 –0.80 0.62 –0.50 
FRL— non-FRL 0.70 0.90 0.67 –0.63 0.33 –0.40 0.90 –0.65 0.61 
Note. The “% churn” is the percentage of students who transfer in and out of the district in a school year. The “% LI students” is the 
percentage of students in the school classified as being from a low income background. The “% EL students” is the percentage of 
students classified as English learners. The “% attendance rate” is the percentage of days attended in the school year. The “% students 
disciplined” is the percentage of students disciplined. The “% teacher retention” is the percentage of teachers working in the same 
position across 2 school years. The “% high needs” is the percentage of students classified as at least one of the following: being from a 
low income background, being an English learner, or having an IEP. The “% stability” is the percentage of students remaining in the 
same school throughout the school year. The “Avg absences” is the average number of days students are absent. White–Black isolation 
measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Black 
students. White— Hispanic isolation measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a 
district, considering only White and Hispanic students. White— Asian isolation measures how concentrated White students are in their 
typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Asian students. Seg WH— NAM isolation measures how 
===PAGE 79===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 75 – 
concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Native American 
students. Seg WH— Min isolation measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, 
considering only White and Minority students. Seg WAS— Min isolation measures how concentrated White and Asian students are in 
their typical school environment within a district, considering only White, Asian, and minority students. White–Non-White isolation 
measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Non-
White students. FRL–non-FRL isolation measures how concentrated FRL-eligible students are in their typical school environment within 
a district. Source: Massachusetts public school profile data and education opportunity segregation index data. 
===PAGE 80===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 76 – 
How does MCAS performance differ for those just below compared with 
those just above screener benchmarks identifying students as at risk? 
The goal of early literacy screening is to identify students who may benefit from additional 
support in getting on track as readers. Under a Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS), 
students identified as significantly below benchmark are expected to receive intensive 
intervention, while their peers just above the benchmark may not. Although we lack data on 
whether or how services were provided, we conducted an exploratory analysis comparing 
outcomes for grade 3 students just below versus those just above each benchmark. 
We used a quasi-experimental method, regression discontinuity design (RDD), to examine 
differences in grade 3 spring MCAS scores for students near the cut scores on BOY screening 
assessments. Two analyses were conducted: one focused on students near the significantly 
below benchmark cut score (within ±0.5 SD, n = 8,933) and another focused on students near 
the below benchmark cut score (within ±0.9 SD, n = 15,926). Because students took MCAS at 
the end of the year, this design allows time for any interventions to take effect. The analysis 
was conducted separately by screening assessment given the known differences in risk 
benchmarks. 
Overall, students just above and students just below the benchmark cut scores performed 
similarly on MCAS. One exception was in i-Ready (below benchmark), in which students above 
the cut score scored 4.2 scale score points higher on average than those below (t = 2.89, 
p < .01). We also found that for DIBELS 8th Edition, the relationship between screening scores 
and MCAS outcomes was significantly stronger for students below the cut score than for those 
above, with a slope difference of approximately 9 points (t = –5.03, p < .001). 
Some screening assessments, including i-Ready and Star Reading, also showed stronger 
screening–MCAS relationships for students below the cut score compared with those above. 
However, most other screener-specific effects were not statistically significant. 
In the analysis using the significantly below benchmark cut score, we found no statistically 
significant differences in MCAS outcomes for students just above versus those just below the 
cut score across screening assessments. While there were descriptive differences in slope 
across some screening assessments— for example, FastBridge aReading appeared to have a 
negative relationship below the cut and a positive one above— these differences were not 
statistically significant. 
Importantly, the absence of a detectable MCAS difference for students significantly below 
benchmark does not imply that early literacy interventions are ineffective. First, MCAS scores 
may not detect gains among the lowest performing students well. A student could move from 
very low to moderately low reading ability without showing a measurable MCAS gain. Second, 
interventions may be preventive, helping students maintain their skills rather than fall further 
behind. Such benefits would not be captured in our comparison unless a true control group 
===PAGE 81===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 77 – 
(with no services) were available. Therefore, these results should be interpreted with caution 
and not as evidence against the value of early intervention. 
Are there schools where students are “outperforming” expectations in 
terms of achievement and/or growth within the school year, based on 
the demographics of students and/or schools or other factors?  
Educational researchers have long sought to identify schools that “beat the odds”— that is, 
schools that achieve better outcomes than would be expected based on the demographics and 
characteristics of the students they serve. In 2023/24, we used a multilevel logistic regression 
model to identify such schools, statistically adjusting for differences in student background, 
school context, and district-level school segregation. This approach enables comparisons across 
schools that are more valid by identifying those that perform better than predicted, not simply 
those with the lowest rates of risk. 
Using the school-level random effects from our model, we identified seven schools with the 
lowest adjusted likelihood of students being flagged as significantly below benchmark more 
than once during the year (Table 18). The analysis was conducted both with and without 
segregation measures, and the same schools were identified in both cases, suggesting a robust 
pattern. These schools represent the strongest outliers in terms of performance relative to their 
contexts rather than absolute performance alone. Several additional schools had low rates of 
risk identification, but either they served relatively advantaged populations or we could not 
identify more than two similar schools for comparison within the screener data sample. 
The range in risk identification among these outperforming schools is substantial, spanning 
from 14 to 28 percent.  
Most schools on the list serve moderate- to high-need student populations. School 1 and School 
2 both serve student bodies in which more than 70 percent of students are from low income 
backgrounds, and yet they report risk rates of only 14.9 and 16.5 percent, respectively. These 
figures are lower than predicted based on their school contexts, suggesting that effective 
practices may be helping to buffer students from academic risk. 
Several schools on the list serve some of the highest need student populations in the state. For 
example, School 7 and School 6 serve student populations with about 80 percent of students 
from low income backgrounds and English learner rates exceeding 30 percent. Despite serving a 
population of students with relatively high need, their risk rates were significantly lower than 
expected after adjusting for all student, school, and district variables. Their presence on this list 
illustrates that having high populations of students from historically marginalized groups does 
not preclude strong performance. 
Across schools, certain features appear consistently. Every school maintained an attendance 
rate above 90 percent, with most exceeding 93 percent. Discipline incidents were rare, with the 
vast majority of schools reporting that fewer than 2 percent of students had disciplinary events 
during the year. Notably, many of these schools also serve high percentages of students 
===PAGE 82===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 78 – 
classified as high-need— including students who are from low income backgrounds, are English 
learners, or receive special education services. The fact that these schools emerged as 
outperformers after adjusting for those characteristics provides compelling evidence that 
strong outcomes are possible even in schools serving complex student populations. 
Table 18. Schools Identified as Outperforming 
School 
identifier 
% 
significantly 
below 
benchmark 
multiple 
times 
% LI 
students 
Average 
school 
attendance 
rate 
Number of 
students 
disciplined 
% EL 
students 
% high 
needs 
students 
Number 
of 
students 
1 14.9 71.2 94.5 0.2 26.9 82.3 483 
2 16.5 75 94.2 0.0 14.8 81.1 176 
3 19.6 61.8 92.7 1.6 35.5 82.2 176 
4 24.4 64.4 92 1.9 46.5 83.6 331 
5 25.2 66.1 93.8 0.5 49.2 85.3 203 
6 25.5 78.7 92.8 1.4 39.3 88.5 359 
7 28.0 83.3 92.6 0.0 31.8 91.4 139 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
To further illustrate how these outperforming schools differ from their peers, we identified 
comparison schools with similar demographic and contextual characteristics. For each 
outperforming school, matches were selected based on a set of proximity criteria: comparison 
schools had to fall within 15 percent of the focal school’s values on key variables— percentage 
of students from low income backgrounds, attendance rate, percentage of English learners, and 
percentage of high needs students— and within 30 percent of enrollment size. For instance, a 
school with 50 percent students from low income backgrounds would be compared with 
schools with rates between 42.5 and 57.5 percent. 
Table 19 summarizes these comparisons. Of the seven outperforming schools, all had at least 
four comparable schools.  
The results show consistent and often substantial differences in the percentage of students 
identified as significantly below benchmark multiple times ranging from about 11 to 
27.5 percentage points in favor of the outperforming schools. 
===PAGE 83===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 79 – 
The size of these gaps is particularly notable among schools serving high-need populations. For 
example, School 2 had 16.5 percent of students identified as multiply at risk compared with 
34.6 percent in its matched peers— a gap of 18.1 percentage points. Similarly, School 1 
reported a rate of 14.9 percent versus 42.3 percent in comparison schools, a difference of 
27.4 percentage points. Other high-need schools, such as Schools 6 and 4, also showed sizable 
differences of 23.0 and 19.9 percentage points, respectively. 
These comparisons reinforce that the identified schools are not simply succeeding because of 
advantageous demographics. Instead, they represent clear exceptions to prevailing 
performance patterns. The results suggest that substantial improvements in early literacy 
outcomes are achievable— even in high-need contexts— when schools implement effective 
instructional practices and foster strong, supportive learning environments. 
Table 19. Comparison School Percentages of Students Significantly Below Benchmark 
Multiple Times 
School 
identifier 
% significantly 
below 
benchmark 
multiple times 
Comparison % 
significantly 
below 
benchmark 
multiple times 
(average) 
Number of 
comparison 
schools 
Difference in % 
of significantly 
below 
benchmark 
1 14.9 42.3 4.0 –27.5 
2 16.5 34.6 6.0 –18.2 
3 19.6 30.3 8.0 –10.7 
4 24.4 44.3 8.0 –19.9 
5 25.2 41.2 7.0 –15.9 
6 25.5 48.6 8.0 –23.0 
7 28.0 45.4 7.0 –17.4 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
  
===PAGE 84===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 80 – 
English Learner Student Performance 
Key Findings 
• The vast majority of English learners in the available data are screened only in English 
(about 10 percent of English learner students took Spanish language screening 
assessments).  
• Star screening assessments were the most commonly administered Spanish-language 
assessments in the screening assessment data. 
• Most students who took Star Spanish-language assessments were English learners 
taught primarily in English with a home language of Spanish. 
• Risk identification rates for English learners remained relatively stable throughout the 
year, particularly for students assessed in Spanish, suggesting limited change in 
Spanish literacy skills over the school year. 
• Screening in both languages generally yielded consistent results, though differences 
emerged based on assessment level and language. 
• Students screened with mismatched assessment levels (different levels in English 
versus Spanish) showed distinct risk patterns, emphasizing the need for careful 
interpretation of such data at the school level. 
Massachusetts’s K–3 population includes several thousand students who speak Spanish as a 
home language, participate in Spanish-English dual language bilingual education (DLBE) 
programs, take Spanish-language literacy screening assessments, or engage in some 
combination of these three activities. For a variety of reasons, these students’ screener results 
may differ from students who speak, test, and learn only in English. For example, students 
participating in DLBE programs have been shown to follow different language development and 
achievement trajectories over time (Umansky & Reardon, 2014) compared with multilingual 
students educated only in English. Based on these differential trajectories, literacy norms based 
on monolingual students receiving monolingual English instruction may be inappropriate or 
inaccurate for predicting whether DLBE students are at risk or are developing appropriately. 
Relatedly, research on multilingualism generally confirms that individuals have different 
strengths, knowledge, and profiles in each language (as opposed to knowing and being able to 
do exactly the same things in each language) such that measuring only one language may paint 
a distorted or incomplete picture of students’ language abilities (Faulkner-Bond et al., 2020; 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, 2017).  
DESE’s Early Literacy Screening Guidance (DESE, 2023) and Massachusetts Dyslexia Guidelines 
(DESE, 2020) both include several recommendations for screening multilingual learners. These 
recommendations include screening students in both their home language and English when 
===PAGE 85===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 81 – 
appropriate tools are available, supplementing assessment-based information with 
observation-based protocols, and comparing these students’ results to a set of more closely 
matched “true peers” rather than to the full population of primarily monolingual English 
speaking students. A general theme across these recommendations is to collect additional 
information about the literacy development of multilingual students when possible and to 
interpret their results with more nuance and context than may be needed for monolingual 
English students.  
Following up on preliminary analyses conducted with 2020/21 and 2021/22 data with the larger 
data set available in 2023/24, we further explore the characteristics, achievement profiles, and 
trajectories of students who participated in Spanish-language screening in grades K–3. The 
goals and research questions of these analyses include the following:  
1. Understand which students participate in these assessments. 
a. How many students participate in Spanish-language screening assessments? 
b. What Spanish-language screening assessments are used in the state? 
c. What are the characteristics of students who participate in Spanish-language 
screening assessments? 
d. To what extent are students who participate in Spanish-language screening 
assessments also being taught in Spanish? 
2. Describe achievement profiles in each language and relative to the profiles of students 
who are screened in English, and explore whether students’ language of instruction or 
time in English learner status is associated with different achievement profiles, 
trajectories, or predictive relationships.  
a. To what extent are through-year score patterns on Spanish-language assessments 
similar to patterns on English-language assessments?  
b. To what extent do Spanish-language screening assessment outcomes agree with 
English-language versions? When the results of each screener diverge, are there 
any patterns to the disagreement? 
How many students participate in Spanish-language screening 
assessments? 
Available data suggest that screening students in languages other than English is still a rare 
practice in the state. In the screening data sample, only 2.4 percent of all students and 
approximately 9 percent of all English Learners took a Spanish language screener at any point 
===PAGE 86===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 82 – 
during the 2023/24 school year.22 These percentages suggest that the most common 
experience for all students, regardless of what languages they use in school or at home, is still 
to be screened in English only.  
What Spanish-language screening assessments are used in the state? 
Many of the approved screening assessment publishers provide Spanish language assessments 
that are designed to function similarly to their English-language counterparts. In the 2023/24 
school year data, data for four of these Spanish-language screening assessments were 
available: FastBridge earlyReading Spanish, mCLASS Lectura, Star Early Literacy Spanish, and 
Star Reading Spanish. A total of 3,561 unique students (2.4% of all students in our sample) 
participated in one of these four Spanish-language screening assessments during the 2023/24 
school year (Table 20).23  
Of these, the two Star assessments were by far the most widely used in the screening 
assessment data sample, representing 95 percent of all students who participated in Spanish-
language screening assessments (3,372 students). The mCLASS Lectura and FastBridge 
earlyReading Spanish accounted for <1 percent and 6 percent of students tested in Spanish, 
respectively. Based on the dominance of the Star assessments and the small sample sizes 
available for the other two Spanish-language screening assessments, in this section we focus 
only on students taking the Star assessments. 
Table 20. Number and Percentage of Students Who Participated in Spanish-Language 
Screening Assessments in 2023/24 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
Number of 
participants 
Percentage of all 
participants  
Percentage of 
Spanish-
language 
participants 
FastBridge earlyReading 
Spanish 
3 <0.1% <0.1% 
Star Early Literacy Spanish 2,533 1.7% 71.1% 
Star Reading Spanish 839 0.56% 23.6% 
mCLASS Lectura 186 0.12% 5.2% 
Total 3,561 2.4% 100% 
 
22 The screening data sample includes about half of the schools serving K–3 students in the 
state, but it is possible that some schools reported only English-language screening 
assessment data. 
23 Note that these numbers include some students who took “off grade level” Spanish-language 
screening assessments such as Star Early Literacy in grades 2 or 3. 
===PAGE 87===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 83 – 
Note. Students may appear in multiple rows if they took more than one screening assessment. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
What are the characteristics of students who participate in Spanish-
language screening assessments? 
The 3,372 students who participated in Star Spanish-language screening assessments were 
largely homogeneous on several key characteristics (Figure 21). First, and unsurprisingly, the 
vast majority of these students (3,171; 94%) spoke Spanish as their home language. The second 
most reported home language in this group was English— a common finding in English learner 
data (e.g., see NCES, 2024) that is generally interpreted as representing students who live in 
multilingual households or students who were raised speaking another language but currently 
live in households where English is spoken. Fewer than 3 percent of students reported speaking 
a language other than Spanish or English at home. 
Second, and also not surprisingly, the vast majority of students participating in Star Spanish-
language (3,100 students; 92%) were English learners at the time they were screened. 
Approximately 7 percent of participants (235 students) had never been English learners, and 
just over 1 percent of participants (37 students) were former English learners.  
Third, the vast majority of students participating in Star Spanish-language (3,216; 95%) 
participated in assessments in both English and Spanish. These data suggest that most districts 
that screen students in Spanish are adhering to DESE’s recommended practice of screening 
students in all of their languages to get a picture of student skills and capabilities across their 
full linguistic repertoire. 
Finally, as we discuss more in the next section, the majority of students who took these 
screening assessments (2,757 individuals; 82%) were enrolled in English-only instructional 
programs (structured English immersion [SEI] programs).  
In other respects, the population of students participating in Spanish-language screening 
assessments largely resembled the population of students taking English-language screening 
assessments: 50 percent (1,688) were female, 13 percent (433) received special education 
services, and 85 percent (2,864) were classified as coming from low income backgrounds. 
===PAGE 88===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 84 – 
Figure 21. Most Students Participating in Star Spanish-Language Screening 
Assessments Were Current English Learners, Were Screened in English and Spanish, 
Had a Home Language of Spanish, and Were Taught in English 
 
Note. The first bar shows the percentage of EL students whose native language is Spanish. The 
second bar shows the percentage of EL students who are current EL students (with the 
remainder former or never English learners). The third bar shows the percentage of students 
taking Spanish and English. The fourth bar shows the percentage of students in different EL 
programs who are in SEI programs (other programs include dual language, not enrolled, parent 
opted out). Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS 
collection data. 
Among students who took Star assessments in Spanish, one other notable characteristic within 
the sample is the prevalence of “off grade” testing, particularly in Grade 2 (Table 21). As noted 
elsewhere in this report, Star Early Literacy is generally recommended for students in  
grades K–1, while Star Reading is recommended for most students in grades 2–3. Table 21 
shows that these recommendations are generally being followed. Seventy-two percent of all 
students (2,131 individuals) took either the Early Literacy assessments in grades K–1 
(1,423 students) or the Reading assessments in grades 2–3 (708 students). However, the next 
largest group of students was 1,678 students (57% of all students tested in both languages) in 
grades 2–3 who took the Early Literacy screener in one (755 students) or both (923 students) 
languages, despite this screener being recommended for earlier grades only. It is possible that 
this trend reflects a practice of screening students considered at risk in English using the more 
foundational assessments as a check, though this could not be confirmed in the data. As Table 
21 shows, this group did not stand out from others based on their disability status, nor did they 
appear to participate in DLBE programs at notably higher rates than other groups. This group 
(students in grades 2–3 who were also screened using the Early Literacy assessment in English) 
did have a slightly higher proportion of students classified as new to U.S. schools, suggesting 
===PAGE 89===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 85 – 
that schools may also be using this practice to assess foundational skills for students who are 
enrolling in the U.S. school system for the first time after the earliest grades.  
Table 21. Percentage of Students Taking “Off Grade Level” Star Assessments in 
Spanish and/or English 
Student 
grade 
levels 
Assessment All  
(N) 
All  
(%) 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
SEI DLBE 
1st 
year in 
U.S. 
K–1 On grade in 
both 
languages 
1,423 37% 10% 81% 13% 56% 
2–3 On grade in 
both 
languages 
708 18% 14% 87% 4% 8% 
K–1 “Off-grade” 
(above) in 
Spanish 
14 <1% 0% 43% 29% 36% 
K–1 “Off grade” 
(above) in 
English 
55 1% 5% 84% 4% 27% 
K–1 “Off grade” 
(above) both 
languages 
Sup 
data 
Sup 
data 
Sup data Sup 
data 
Sup 
data 
Sup 
data 
2–3 “Off grade” 
(below) in 
Spanish 
432 11% 14% 94% 0% 9% 
2–3 “Off grade” 
(below) in 
English 
323 8% 17% 89% 3% 16% 
2–3 “Off grade” 
(below) both 
languages 
923 24% 17% 87% 6% 14% 
Note. Students may appear in multiple rows if they took more than two screening assessments. 
“Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students are not shown in 
===PAGE 90===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 86 – 
order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October 
and June SIMS collection data. 
To what extent are students who participated in Spanish-language 
screening assessments also being taught in Spanish? 
Spanish language screening may be particularly appropriate for students who are participating in 
DLBE programs, in which anywhere from 50 to 90 percent of instruction (including instruction of 
academic content) is provided in a language other than English (LOTE) or a partner language. 
Since students in DLBE programs are used to learning and expressing their ideas in a LOTE, they 
may be more likely to benefit from an assessment that invites their response in the language 
they are accustomed to using in school. By contrast, Spanish-language assessments may be less 
helpful for students— including multilingual students— who are instructed only in English 
because these students may be unaccustomed to using their home language in the context of 
academic activities and expression. For example, multilingual students who have been taught 
“heart words” or “sight words” in English only may not be able to easily identify these same 
words if presented with them Spanish. 
DLBE Programs and Related Research  
Depending on the model it uses, a DLBE program may enroll all or exclusively English learners  
(a one-way immersion program), all or exclusively English-only students (a one-way immersion 
world language program), or a mix of English learners and English-only students (a two-way 
immersion program). Research (Bilber, 2022; Morales, 2024; Palacios et al, 2024; Steele et al, 
2017; Umansky & Reardon, 2014; Valentino & Reardon, 2015) has consistently found evidence 
that DLBE programs produce comparable or superior academic and linguistic outcomes in 
English for English learner students over time, with the additional advantages of social–
emotional benefits and full bilingualism and biliteracy in the partner language. 
Starting in 2018 with the passage of the Language Opportunities for Our Kids (LOOK) Act, DESE 
has sought to increase the number of DLBE programs in the state and thereby expand 
students’, and particularly English learners’, access to such instructional opportunities. As these 
expansion efforts continue, a majority of all students in Massachusetts, including English 
learners, continue to receive instruction in monolingual English learning environments.  
In the 2023/24 school year, DESE reported 2,790 K–3 English learners (5.6%) enrolled in DLBE 
programs compared with 46,483 (93.1%) in SEI programs. Given this context, it is perhaps 
unsurprising that, among students who took Spanish-language screening assessments, the vast 
majority of students (2,528 students; 89%) were enrolled in SEI programs to help them learn 
English (Table 22). Just over 10 percent of participants (324 individuals; all but one student 
===PAGE 91===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 87 – 
currently classified as English learners) participated in DLBE programs. This finding is important 
for contextualizing the results that are reported in the remainder of this section because a 
student’s language of instruction is likely to interact with and affect their literacy development 
in that language and the potential validity and utility of their scores on screening assessments in 
that language. 
Table 22. Number of Students Who Took Star Spanish-Language Screening 
Assessments by English Learner Status and English Language Education (ELE) Program 
ELE program Current EL Never EL Former EL 
No program 0 210 (100%) 33 (97%) 
Structured English immersion 2,528 (89%) 0 0 
Dual language education 323 (11%) 0 Sup data 
Guardian opted out Sup data 0 0 
Total 2,851 210 334 
Note. Dual language education includes DLBE, other bilingual programs, and transitional 
bilingual education. Never EL is defined as a student who was never classified as an English 
Learner. Former EL is defined as a student who is not currently an English learner but who has 
been in the past. “Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students 
are not shown in order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy screening assessment 
data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
To what extent are through-year score patterns on Star Spanish-language 
assessments similar to patterns on English-language assessments? 
Current and prior reporting on early literacy screening assessment data has found that, in 
general, students tend to stay in the same risk category over the course of the year. In the 
2023/24 school year, for example, 61 percent of students who began the year significantly 
below benchmark were still at that level at the end of the year, while 89 percent of students 
who began the year not significantly below ended the year at the same status (not significantly 
below). English learner students who take the English-language Star assessments are even more 
likely to remain significantly below benchmark if they begin the year that way (73% of students 
end the year in this status compared with only 61% among all students).  
Among the subset of English learner students who had a score on an English-language Star 
screener during each time period of the school year (5,189 students; 65% of the sample), the 
proportion not significantly below benchmark increased from 27 percent at BOY to 41 percent 
at EOY, while the proportion of students significantly below benchmark decreased from 
===PAGE 92===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 88 – 
73 percent at BOY to 59 percent at EOY (Figure 22). This decrease is largely driven by students 
who improved at MOY and then remained not significantly below benchmark at EOY. In 
general, students who started significantly below benchmark remained significantly below 
benchmark across the year. 
Although the patterns observed for this subset of English learner students are similar to the 
pattern in the overall population (Figure 22), these students showed more movement in their 
risk statuses over the course of the year compared with the overall population (Figure 12). They 
were also more likely to go from not being at significant risk to being at significant risk in the 
following time period than the overall population was. For example, in the overall student 
population, among students who were not significantly below benchmark at MOY and at BOY, 
95 percent were not significantly below benchmark at EOY (Figure 12); this drops to 87 percent 
among the English-screened English learner students. So, although it appears there are 
improvements in performance across the school year for English learner students screened in 
English, positive performance is less consistent throughout the school year than among the 
overall sample of students.  
Figure 22. Most English Learner Students Who Were Screened in English Maintained 
the Same Risk Level From BOY to EOY 
 
Note. See Figure 22 in Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 93===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 89 – 
Interestingly, English learner students who took Star Spanish-language screening assessments 
were also likely to end the year at the same risk level— but with more downward movement 
compared with those who took Star English-language screening assessments. For example, 
87 percent of students who started the year not significantly below benchmark on an English-
language screener remained there at EOY compared with 82 percent of students who took 
Spanish-language screening assessments. Additionally, the percentage of English learner 
students significantly below benchmark dropped from 73 percent in BOY to 59 percent in EOY 
for students taking an English-language screener but stayed virtually the same for English 
learner students taking a Spanish-language screener (Figure 23).  
Figure 23. The Proportion of Students At Risk Based on Spanish-Language Screening 
Assessments Was Largely Stable From BOY to EOY 
 
Note. See Figure 23 in Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
This lack of change from BOY to EOY in the proportion of students at significant risk is explained 
by student shifts in performance over time. Among English learner students who started not 
significantly below benchmark in Spanish at BOY, nearly a third (29%) moved to a lower 
performance level at MOY (significantly below), and a majority of these (72%) remained in that 
status at EOY. Similarly, although 17 percent of students who started significantly below 
===PAGE 94===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 90 – 
benchmark in Spanish at BOY moved to a higher performance level at MOY, roughly half of 
these students (51%) moved back down to significantly below benchmark at EOY. These 
patterns may stem from the fact that the vast majority of students being screened in Spanish 
are not being instructed in Spanish. While students’ development of their home language 
presumably continues outside of school, their knowledge, and ways of using Spanish may not 
align with the skills assessed on a literacy screener. 
To what extent do Spanish-language screening assessment outcomes 
agree with English-language versions? When the results of each 
screener diverge, are there any patterns to the disagreement? 
As noted in earlier sections, research suggests that multilingual learners may have distinct 
strengths and weaknesses in their different languages. Such differences may stem from a 
variety of factors, including the language(s) in which they are instructed at school and the ways 
they use their home language outside of school (e.g., the extent to which they read or are read 
to in their home language; the extent to which they speak or are spoken to in their home 
language; or the extent to which they consume media like television, movies, games, or 
podcasts in their home language) (NASEM, 2017). This reality makes it possible— even likely—
that students may receive different scores or risk categorizations from the different screening 
assessments they take. Particularly in cases of students who are deemed to be at risk by the 
English-language screener, divergent results can be informative and may add important context 
for determinations of which students are genuinely at risk of reading problems or disabilities. 
For example, if students are deemed at risk in English but not in Spanish, this may suggest a 
need for more information or screening to differentiate between typical second language 
development (which may not be used to justify a disability determination) and a potential 
learning disability (U.S. Department of Justice & U.S. Department of Education, Office of Civil 
Rights, 2015). Such students may benefit from opportunities to more directly and explicitly 
connect and leverage their home language to support their English development, or from 
changes to how they are being taught English as a language.  
Overall, the data for students who take Spanish and English-language assessments show that 
the screening assessments agree with one another more often than not. As seen in Table 23, 
when students are screened in both English and Spanish, their risk levels align across the two 
assessments a majority of the time (between 63% and 73%, depending on the time period and 
the combination of tests). Notably, this agreement held even when students took different 
screening assessments in Spanish versus English (e.g., if they took the Early Literacy screener in 
one language and the Reading screener in the other; we address these instances of mismatched 
concurrent screening in more depth later). The data in this section consist primarily of 
18 schools; there are a few additional schools that have fewer than 10 students each.  
===PAGE 95===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 91 – 
Table 23. Risk Identification Agreement Rates for Students Who Took English and 
Spanish-Language Star Screening Assessments 
Risk levels match BOY MOY EOY 
Any 
time 
period 
Early Literacy English— Early Literacy Spanish  
(matched assessments) 
71% 73% 72% 87% 
Reading English— Reading Spanish  
(matched assessments) 
71% 65% 67% 76% 
Early Literacy English— Reading Spanish  
(mismatched; Spanish targets more advanced reading 
skills) 
73% 64% 66% 70% 
Reading English— Early Literacy Spanish  
(mismatched; English targets more advanced reading 
skills) 
64% 63% 64% 67% 
Note. Includes EL and non-EL students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
When risk levels did not align between the two assessments, several patterns emerged. The 
largest group of students with divergent risk levels (n = 455) were those who took Star Early 
Literacy Assessment in both languages in grades K or 1 (Figure 24). This group included a 
roughly even split between English learner students who had attended schools in the United 
States for less than 1 year (n = 199) and those who had attended schools in the United States 
for more than 1 year (n = 230).24 It also included a relatively higher rate of participation in DLBE 
programs (between 2% and 10% of students at any time period) compared with other groups 
we describe.  
Figure 24 shows the proportion of students identified as at significant risk in each language 
(English and Spanish) for all students in this group, with results disaggregated for students who 
attended U.S. schools for less than 1 year (panel 2) or had already spent 1 or more years in 
 
24 Note that while some might consider some of these students “newcomers” based on their 
attendance in U.S. schools for less than 1 year, the majority of English learner students start 
school in kindergarten, like all students, and are thus not necessarily at any disadvantage in 
terms of prior schooling. Additionally, while most English learner students who have attended 
U.S. schools for more than 1 year are presumably in 1st grade and beyond, this group might 
include some kindergarteners if they have participated in a state-sponsored preschool 
program. 
===PAGE 96===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 92 – 
U.S. schools (panel 3).25 The first panel (for all students in this group) shows that, on the Early 
Literacy assessment, the proportion of students deemed to be at risk by the English screener 
was higher than the proportion on the Spanish screener at all points during the year, though 
the discrepancy was highest at BOY (a difference of 40 percentage points). While the risk rates 
in the two languages did converge over the year, this convergence appeared to stem both from 
a decrease in the proportion of students deemed to be at risk by the English-language screener 
and from an increase in the proportion of students deemed to be at risk in Spanish.  
Panels 2 and 3 suggest that English learner students in their 1st year in U.S. schools largely 
drove this trend. These students (shown in panel 2) showed sharp decreases (30 percentage 
points) in English risk rates from BOY to MOY and a comparable increase (of 30 percentage 
points) in Spanish risk rates over the same period. This group stayed on the same trajectory 
from MOY to EOY, but with less dramatic changes (8 percentage points for each group). These 
trends suggest that as these students grew more accustomed to their instructional settings 
(which, as noted, are overwhelmingly English-only), their English screening performance 
improved and their Spanish screening performance decreased. While both screening 
assessments eventually settled at similar risk rates (about 50% in each language by EOY), the 
EOY agreement was 71 percent (similar to Table 23), indicating that nearly one third of students 
were deemed to be at risk in one language but not in the other.  
English learner students attending schools in the United States for 1 or more years (panel 3), by 
contrast, showed essentially no change from BOY to MOY, and slight divergences from MOY to 
EOY (English risk rates increased by 7 percentage points, while Spanish risk rates decreased by 
the same amount). This group also included the most students in DLBE programs (between 
2% and 10% depending on the time of year). 
Taken together, the findings for this group of students suggest that risk rates and agreement 
across languages are affected by the language of instruction. English learner students in their 
1st year in U.S. schools (panel 2) showed considerable decreases in their risk rates in English 
over the course of the year and showed corresponding increases in their Spanish risk rates 
because they spent more time receiving instruction in English. In panel 3, meanwhile, an 
increase in the proportion of students participating in DLBE over the year, where students are 
instructed in both languages, corresponded with a decrease in risk rates on the Spanish 
language screener. 
 
25 Note that per DESE guidance, all English learner students enrolled in their 1st year of 
kindergarten are considered 1st year in the United States. 
===PAGE 97===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 93 – 
Figure 24. Percentages of Students Identified as At Risk on Star Early Literacy English and Spanish Converged Over the 
Year, Particularly for English Learners in Their 1st Year in U.S. Schools  
 
Note. In panel 1, N = 455 at BOY, N = 440 at MOY, and N = 450 at EOY. In panel 2, N = 199 at BOY, N = 180 at MOY, and N = 181 at 
EOY. In panel 3, N = 230 at BOY, N = 243 at MOY, and N = 237 at EOY. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October 
and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 98===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 94 – 
Figure 25 shows that risk rates for students who took Star Reading in both languages and had 
divergent risk categorizations were consistently higher on the Spanish screening assessment 
than the English-language screening assessment— the opposite pattern to that observed for 
students taking Star Early Literacy. Since Star Reading is generally recommended for students in 
grades 2 and 3, and since the vast majority of students screened in both languages (between 
86% and 93%, depending on the time of year) are instructed solely in English, it would follow 
that screening in Spanish might be most challenging or irrelevant for this group because in 
some cases they will be completing their 4th year of English-only education. In alignment with 
this interpretation, more than 80 percent of all students in this group had spent at least 1 year 
in U.S. schools. For this group of students, it might be appropriate to seek other data sources 
(e.g., academic achievement scores, teacher or family input) to determine the likelihood of a 
disability or genuine reading risk rather than also administer Spanish-language screening 
assessments.  
Figure 25. Percentages of Students Identified as At Risk Were Relatively Consistent 
From BOY to EOY in Spanish and English for Star Reading 
 
Note. N = 111 at BOY, N = 158 at MOY, and N = 156 at EOY. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Among students with divergent risk categorizations in English and Spanish, the majority at each 
time point (between 83% and 87%) took the same screener in both languages. However, in the 
remaining 13 to 17 percent of cases, students took Star Early Literacy (generally recommended 
===PAGE 99===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 95 – 
for grades K or 1) in one language and Star Reading (generally recommended for grades 2 or 3) 
in the other.26  
Risk rates on mismatched screening assessments are shown in Figure 26. The first panel shows 
students who took the more advanced of the two assessments (Star Reading) in English. As one 
might expect, risk rates on the English assessment are higher at all time points for this group, 
though they also decrease over time and generally converge with the risk rates in Spanish. This 
assessment scenario might occur if a school seeks to use the Spanish Early Literacy screener as 
a check on basic skills or linguistic knowledge or a follow-up to an English result that is 
ambiguous or does not seem to align with teacher or family observations. The through-year 
trends suggest that students in this scenario generally improve on their English literacy skills 
over the course of the year, but they do not improve similarly in their Spanish literacy skills. As 
noted elsewhere, these divergent trends may stem from the fact that nearly all students in the 
sample are being instructed in English. To the extent that students are continuing to develop 
skills in Spanish, those skills may not be well-captured by a school-based assessment of literacy 
skills.  
The second panel shows results for students with divergent outcomes who took the more 
advanced assessment (the Reading screener) in Spanish. This scenario was least likely to be 
observed in the sample (no more than 100 students at any time point during the year). The 
data show that, for students screened with this combination of assessments, risk rates were 
consistently higher on the English screener and actually increased over the course of the year, 
while Spanish risk rates decreased. Given these divergent trends and the decrease in risk 
classifications on the more challenging Spanish Reading assessment (relative to the English 
Early Literacy assessment), this group of students might be one that districts should look into 
more carefully or with other data sources before making decisions based on English results 
alone. 
 
26 Notably, very few students in this group (12 or fewer at any time point) were English learners 
in U.S. schools for less than 1 year. As such, it is unlikely that any trends in Figure 26 are 
driven by gaps in formal education or students being new to U.S. schools. 
===PAGE 100===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 96 – 
Figure 26. Patterns of Performance Vary Based on Screener Language and Difficulty  
 
Note. In the first panel, N = 59 at BOY, N = 75 at MOY, and N = 95 at EOY. In the second panel, 
N = 32 at BOY, N = 35 at MOY, and N = 29 at EOY. Source: Early literacy screening assessment 
data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
This analysis offers a first look at screening patterns and performance across the year for 
Massachusetts students taking English- and Spanish-language screening assessments, though it 
is limited by the numbers of schools and students with data in both languages. It offers a 
window into practices and results for a small number of cases, which may prove useful in 
identifying areas for further investigation. One such area may be the relationship between 
language of instruction and screening results, including common development trajectories over 
time for students being taught solely in English versus in a DLBE program.  
Given the small sample sizes observed here, ongoing analyses of screening results in all 
languages may help DESE to identify meaningful patterns and best practices for district 
guidance. Districts, in turn, may benefit from receiving guidance on when to screen in both 
languages, how to interpret divergent results, and when (under what circumstances) other 
sources of evidence may be useful to understand student development instead of or in addition 
to Spanish-language screening assessments. Such guidance could also benefit students with a 
home language other than Spanish for whom home language screening assessments are not yet 
available. 
Discussion and Next Steps 
This report provides additional analysis of early literacy screening data using data that 
represents about half of the K–3 student population in Massachusetts. Despite challenges in 
===PAGE 101===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 97 – 
interpreting results due to differences in definitions of risk used across screening assessments, 
3 years of analysis have consistently shown several patterns.  
First, students identified as at risk tend to stay at risk. This pattern is true both within and 
across years and is even more pronounced for historically marginalized students, including 
Black, Hispanic, and English Learner students; students from low income backgrounds; and 
students receiving special education services. At the other extreme, students who begin a 
school year at or above benchmark also tend to stay there within and across school years. This 
year’s analysis allows us to follow students for 2 years rather than just year to year, and these 
same patterns persist.  
At the same time, there is evidence that being identified as significantly below benchmark (or 
above benchmark) is not a permanent designation. In each of the past 3 years of analysis, data 
show that students who move above the significant risk threshold typically maintain that 
improved performance over time. For example, students who improve by midyear tend to stay 
out of the significant risk category through the end of the year. Additionally, students at earlier 
grade levels are consistently less likely to remain at significant risk than are students in higher 
grade levels. Moving students by midyear seems to matter for screening assessment 
performance at EOY or in the following school years and so does moving students in 
kindergarten and grade 1.  
Analysis also shows the importance of schools to individual student performance. In this year’s 
data and in prior reporting, results show that repeated risk identification is associated with the 
environments in which students learn. This year’s analysis also examines district-level factors 
such as school segregation by race/ethnicity and socioeconomic status. Interestingly, the results 
show that we cannot statistically identify independent effects of these factors over and above 
related student- and school-level characteristics— their impact is likely already embedded at 
these levels. Similarly, analysis first carried out last year and repeated again this year shows 
that students from backgrounds that include membership in multiple historically underserved 
groups are more frequently identified as at risk. Further, analyses of English and Spanish 
screening practices highlight the complex relationships between learners, home languages, and 
languages of instruction and assessment. Data suggest that information in two languages may 
tell different stories about student strengths and progress, though the results of Spanish-
language screening assessments tend to show higher risk and less growth over time— likely due 
to the fact that almost all students who are screened in multiple languages are instructed only 
in English.  
And yet, results from last year and this year do point to some schools who appear to be 
outperforming expectations. Continuing to track these schools over time may offer an 
opportunity to identify successful practices.  
New analysis this year attempts to check for effects of being identified as at significant risk on 
later academic performance— specifically on MCAS. We did not identify any such effects, which 
may be due to the fact that interventions meant to be provided to students at risk are not yet 
===PAGE 102===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 98 – 
having their full intended effect or they are keeping students from falling further behind their 
peers. It may also relate to another consistent finding about the relationship between screening 
assessment performance and MCAS. In each of the past 3 years, data show that students who 
are significantly below benchmark are very unlikely to be successful on MCAS, and even 
students performing at benchmark on many screening assessments will not meet expectations 
on MCAS. Without strong and sustained intervention and core instructional programs aligned 
with challenging standards, changes in grade 3 assessment scores are improbable.  
Results of this and prior analysis are descriptive in nature— they do not “prove” anything in the 
same way that a rigorous study of a particular program or intervention does. They simply 
describe what we see in the data, accounting as best we can for factors such as differences 
between screening assessments and other data limitations.  
Addressing data limitations and screening assessment comparability will strengthen DESE’s 
ability to identify important and recurrent trends in performance and progress, but universal 
screening to identify students at risk is just the beginning.  
===PAGE 103===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 99 – 
References 
Amplify. (n.d.). mCLASS Lectura technical manual. 
https://amplify.com/pdf/uploads/2024/04/mCLASS_Lectura_Technical_Manual_final_draft.pdf 
Biancarosa, G., Kennedy, P. C, Park, S., Otterstedt, J., Gearin, B, Ives, C, & Yoon, H. J. (2018–
2020). 8th Edition of Dynamic Indicators of Basic Early Literacy Skills (DIBELS®): Technical 
manual. University of Oregon. https://dibels.uoregon.edu/sites/default/files/DIBELS8-
TechnicalManual_04152020.pdf 
Bibler, A. J. (2022). Language immersion and student achievement. Education Economics, 30(5), 
451–464. https://doi.org/10.1080/09645292.2021.2001788 
Curriculum Associates. (2019). i-Ready® Assessments technical manual. 
Curriculum Associates. (2025). Universal early literacy screening using i-Ready: Guidance to 
identify students who are significantly below benchmark. 
EarlyBird Education. (2024). EarlyBird Kindergarten Dyslexia and Early Literacy Assessment: 
Technical manual. https://knowledgebase.earlybirdeducation.com/knowledge/earlybird-tech-
manuals 
Faulkner-Bond, M., Spycher, P., Olsen, L., & Gándara, P. (2020). The power and promise of 
California’s multilingual learners. In California Department of Education, Improving education 
for multilingual and English learner students: Research to practice (pp. 27–62). 
https://www.cde.ca.gov/sp/el/er/documents/mleleducation.pdf 
Gray, J. S., Warnock, A. N., Good, R. H., III, & Powell-Smith, K. A. (2021). Acadience Reading K–6 
national norms (Technical Report No. 32). Acadience Learning. www.acadiencelearning.org 
Greenberg Motamedi, J., Singh, M., & Thompson, K. D. (2016). English learner student 
characteristics and time to reclassification: An example from Washington state (REL 2016 128). 
U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences, National Center for Education 
Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional Educational Laboratory Northwest. 
http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/edlabs  
Illuminate Education. (2021). Psychometric evidence of FastBridge Universal Screening & 
Progress Monitoring System. https://www.illuminateed.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/07/Psychometric-Evidence-of-FastBridge-Universal-Screening-Progress-
Monitoring-System-2021.pdf  
Kieffer, M. J., & Parker, C. E. (2016). Patterns of English learner student reclassification in New 
York City public schools (REL 2017–200). U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education 
Sciences, National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional 
Educational Laboratory Northeast & Islands. http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/edlabs  
===PAGE 104===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 100 – 
Lemke, M., Murphy, D., Soo Ping Chow, A., & Acuña, A. (2024). Intersections: Student 
background and early literacy performance. WestEd. 
https://www.wested.org/resource/intersections-student-background-and-early-literacy-
performance/ 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (2021). Massachusetts 
dyslexia guidelines. https://www.doe.mass.edu/specialeducation/families/links/dyslexia-
guidelines.pdf 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (2023). Early literacy 
screening guidance. https://www.doe.mass.edu/instruction/screening-guide.pdf 
McCall, L. (2005). The complexity of intersectionality. Signs, 30(3), 1771–1800. 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/426800 
Morales, C. (2024). Dual language immersion programs and student achievement in early 
elementary grades. Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 47(2), 616–623. 
https://doi.org/10.3102/01623737241228829 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. (2017). Promoting the educational 
success of children and youth learning English: Promising futures. The National Academies 
Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/24677 
National Center for Education Statistics. (2024). English Learners in public schools. Condition of 
Education. U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences. Retrieved May 30, 
2024, from https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator/cgf 
Olsen, L. (with Martinez, M., Herrera, C. B., & Skibbins, H.). (2020). Multilingual programs and 
pedagogy: What teachers and administrators need to know and do. In California Department of 
Education, Improving education for multilingual and English students: Research to practice 
(pp. 115–188). https://www.cde.ca.gov/sp/el/er/documents/mleleducation.pdf 
Owens, A. (2018). Income segregation between school districts and inequality in students’ 
achievement. Sociology of Education, 91(1), 1–27. https://www.asanet.org/wp-
content/uploads/attach/journals/jan18soefeature.pdf?ref=postcommon.com 
Palacios, N., Bohlmann, N. L., Bell, B.A., Oh, M. H., & Yue, Y. (2024). Does early elementary dual 
language instruction deliver as promised? AERA Open, 10. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/23328584241264513 
Peng, F., Xue, K., Hall, C., & Newburn, J. (2024). English MAP reading fluency technical report: 
Based on assessments administered during the 2020–2022 school year. NWEA. 
https://www.nwea.org/research/publication/english-map-reading-fluency-technical-report/ 
Reardon, S. F. (2016). School segregation and racial academic achievement gaps. RSF: The 
Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences, 2(5), 34–57. 
https://doi.org/10.7758/RSF.2016.2.5.03 
===PAGE 105===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 101 – 
Reardon, S. F., Owens, A., & Kalogrides, D. (2025). Documentation for segregation estimates, 
Segregation Explorer (Version 1.0) [Data set]. http://edopportunity.org/segregation 
Renaissance Learning. (n.d.). Defining benchmarks in Star Computer Adaptive tests. https://star-
help.renaissance. com/hc/en-us/articles/24424240092827-Defining-Benchmarks-in-Star-
Assessments Renaissance Learning  
Renaissance Learning (2024). FastBridge benchmarks and norms interpretation guide. 
https://fastbridge.illuminateed.com/hc/en-us/articles/1260802348670-FastBridge-
Benchmarks-and-Norms-Interpretation-Guide 
Renaissance Learning (2025a). Star Assessments™ for Early Literacy technical manual. 
https://star-help. renaissance.com/hc/en-us/articles/12483321397019-Star-Assessments-for-
Early-Literacy-Technical-Manual Renaissance Learning 
Renaissance Learning (2025b). Star Assessments™ for Reading technical manual. https://star-
help. renaissance.com/hc/en-us/articles/12542471051803-Star-Assessments-for-Reading-
Technical-Manual 
Slama, R., Molefe, A., Gerdeman, R. D, Herrera, A., Brodziak de los Reyes, I., August, D., & 
Cavazos, L. (2017). Time to proficiency for Hispanic English learner students in Texas (REL 2018–
280). U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences, National Center for 
Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional Educational Laboratory Central. 
http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/edlabs 
Steele, J. L., Slater, R. O., Zamarro, G., Miller, T., Li, J., Burkhauser, S., & Bacon, M. (2017). 
Effects of dual-language immersion programs on student achievement: Evidence from lottery 
data. American Educational Research Journal, 54(1_suppl), 282S-306S. 
https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831216634463 
Thompson, K. D. (2017). English learners’ time to reclassification: An analysis. Educational 
Policy, 31(3), 330–363. https://doi.org/10.1177/0895904815598394 
Umansky, I. M., & Reardon, S. F. (2014). Reclassification patterns among Latino English learner 
students in bilingual, dual immersion, and English immersion classrooms. American Educational 
Research Journal, 51(5), 879–912. https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831214545110 
U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, & U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil 
Rights. (2015, January 7). Dear colleague letter: English learner students and limited English 
proficient parents. https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-el-201501.pdf 
Valentino, R. A., & Reardon, S. F. (2015). Effectiveness of four instructional programs designed 
to serve English learners: Variation by ethnicity and initial English proficiency. Educational 
Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 37(4), 612–637. https://doi.org/10.3102/0162373715573310 
===PAGE 106===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 102 – 
Appendix A. Business Rules and Data 
Processing Specifications 
This report draws on data from multiple sources, including extant student-level data provided 
by Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) and publicly 
available school- and district-level data obtained from DESE’s school and district profiles 
website and Stanford University’s Segregation Tracking Project. The data includes 
• early literacy universal screening assessment data for K–3 students in districts receiving 
certain state grants (e.g., the Early Grades Literacy grant, the Early Literacy Screening 
Assessment and Professional Development grant, the Growing Literacy Equity Across 
Massachusetts grant, Accelerating Literacy, and the High Quality Instructional Materials 
Implementation grant); 
• the state’s Student Information Management System (SIMS) data;  
• Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS) data; 
• Assessing Comprehension and Communication in English State-to-State for English 
Language Learners (ACCESS for ELLs) data; and  
• publicly available school- and district-level data pertaining to educator characteristics, 
student performance, student enrollment and demographic characteristics, 
racial/ethnic segregation, and finances/expenditures. 
These data sources were each cleaned separately using R and Stata and were merged into one 
primary longitudinal analytical file that was used for the analysis. In the following sections, we 
describe the data cleaning and merging progress, data issues that arose, and the decisions that 
were made to resolve these issues.  
Cleaning Early Literacy Universal Screening Assessment Data 
Cleaning of the 2023/24 early literacy screening assessment data primarily consisted of 
dropping student identifiers and assessment-specific variables that would not be needed for 
the analyses (e.g., publisher-assigned ID, race/ethnicity, other measures); renaming variables to 
create a standardized format across assessments; creating variables to contain school and 
district codes for the merging process; creating variables containing the composite (and 
subtest) benchmark levels and reading risk flag status (as defined by the publisher); creating a 
time/test period variable, when needed, that describes when the screening assessment was 
administered (i.e., beginning of year [BOY], middle of year [MOY], and end of year [EOY]); and 
selecting one score per student per time period per grade level per assessment. 
===PAGE 107===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 103 – 
The analytic team used publisher-defined cut scores (obtained through the assessment 
technical manuals or communication with the publishers) to create composite and subtest 
benchmark variables and a reading risk flag variable. Although these variables were typically 
available in DESE- or publisher-provided files, for some assessments, schools and districts could 
establish their own local benchmarks and/or could calculate them manually. To ensure as much 
comparability as possible in the data, benchmark levels were recalculated according to the 
technical documentation provided by the assessment publishers. Where this was not possible 
due to missing information or other reasons, we used the school- or district-provided 
benchmark scores. The MAP Reading Fluency Universal Screener flag, the EarlyBird dyslexia risk 
flag, and the aimswebPlus composite benchmark level were not calculated by the analytic team 
because publisher-defined cut scores were not available. The MAP Reading Fluency flag is 
generated by NWEA using a multivariate predictive model, the EarlyBird dyslexia risk flag is 
generated by EarlyBird using subtests determined to be most predictive of dyslexia, and the 
aimswebPlus composite benchmark is generated by comparing the student’s composite score 
with the seasonal cut scores set after the teacher or school selects the spring performance 
target. Additionally, for the 25th percentile or below analyses, we used publisher-provided 
documentation that identifies the score at the 25th percentile if percentile data were not 
included in the assessment file. 
In some instances, differences between the benchmark level provided in the screening 
assessment file and the benchmark level generated based on the publisher-defined cut scores 
were likely due to the administration of an “off grade level” test; this was observed in 
214 observations. In these instances, a note was included in the database and the observations 
were excluded from the analyses because their scores were not generated from the expected 
grade-level assessment.  
The time period corresponding to each score was typically determined by using a variable 
within the file or was indicated in the file name. For cases with a missing time period, the 
assessment administration date provided within the file and the default testing periods 
provided by publishers were used to determine the expected time period. The Istation and Star 
assessments had additional ways to determine the appropriate time period. Because Istation 
Indicators of Progress (ISIP) Early Reading was typically delivered each month during the school 
year, the analytic team used the September scores as the BOY scores, the January scores as the 
MOY scores, and the May scores as the EOY scores. If September scores were missing, October 
scores were used as the BOY scores; if January scores were missing, February scores were used 
as the MOY scores; and if May scores were missing, June scores were used as the EOY scores. 
The Star assessments also include a variable that identifies the period that the student growth 
percentile for that observation covers. This variable was also used to determine the current 
time period of an observation. 
Some students had multiple scores within the same grade level and time period and on the 
same assessment. To select one score per grade level per time period per assessment, the 
analytic team used the following rules: 
===PAGE 108===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 104 – 
• The observation(s) with a composite score was selected if additional observations did 
not have one. 
• Observations with earlier administration dates were selected (because later scores in 
the same time window were potentially scores being used for progress monitoring 
rather than screening). 
• If multiple observations had the same date or the administration dates were not 
available, the lowest score within the time period was selected because the higher 
score was assumed to be a progress monitoring measure after instruction. 
• If the observations had no composite and the assessments were administered on the 
same date (or the date was unavailable), the observation with more subtest data was 
selected.  
The Star, i-Ready, and NWEA assessments included additional metrics that were used to select 
the score for analysis. 
• Star Curriculum-Based Methods files contained a test purpose variable that indicated 
whether the administration purpose was “screening,” “progress monitoring,” or 
“other.” Some scores did not have an associated test purpose. Observations that were 
used for progress monitoring were dropped during the cleaning process. Observations 
with no stated purpose or with an “Other” purpose were kept if that was the only 
observation for the student for that subtest in the specific time period. The remaining 
duplicates were removed using the previously mentioned rules.  
• i-Ready files contained a variable (i.e., Rush Flag) that indicates whether a student may 
have “rushed” through the diagnostic assessment. Students received a red Rush Flag if 
they answered questions in less than 11 seconds on average per item and a yellow 
Rush Flag if they spent between 12 and 15 seconds on average per item. In determining 
which observations to keep, if there were multiple observations per time period, scores 
without rush flags were kept regardless of administration date. The remaining 
duplicates were removed using the previously mentioned rules. 
• The MAP Reading Fluency assessment included four types of tests: (a) Foundational 
Skills, (b) Foundational Skills: Beginner, (c) Adaptive Oral Reading, and (d) Adaptive Oral 
Reading: Passages Only. If students had observations from multiple assessment types, 
the observation for the assessment type most in line with what is typically administered 
to students in that grade level was used. The remaining duplicates were removed using 
the previously mentioned rules. 
Finally, during the screening assessment cleaning process for the 2023/24 data, the composite 
score for 2,909 Acadience Reading observations and 3,867 DIBELS 8th Edition observations 
were generated by the analytic team using the composite score formulas in the technical 
manuals. These composite scores were only generated if the student either had all necessary 
===PAGE 109===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 105 – 
subtest data or met the discontinue rules (i.e., the student struggled significantly and did not 
take increasingly difficult subtests) or the gating rules (i.e., the student was high performing and 
skipped easier subtests [difficulty level determined by the publisher]). These cases typically 
occurred in district-provided files where the district did not calculate or provide the composite 
score. Further, 69 Acadience Reading scores, 455 DIBELS 8th Edition scores, and 182 mCLASS 
Lectura scores were replaced with composite scores generated by the analytic team using the 
composite score formulas in the technical manual. This recalculation was typically done for files 
in which the data appeared to be manually entered and was done primarily for two main 
reasons: First, some of the observations had incorrectly calculated composite scores based on 
the subtest data provided in the file (specifically, missing scores were treated as zeros). Second, 
some of the observations had composite scores even though the student did not complete the 
necessary grade-level subtests and did not meet the discontinue/gating rules. 
Cleaning Student-Level State Education Data 
In addition to the K–3 early literacy screening assessment data, other student-level data from 
the 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 school years were used for the analysis, including 
October and June SIMS data, MCAS data, and ACCESS for ELLs data. 
The state education data required minimal cleaning. The cleaning process was conducted in 
Stata and generally consisted of renaming variables to meet the standardized format used for 
the early literacy screening files and dropping variables that were unnecessary for the analysis 
or not applicable for K–3 students (e.g., the High School Completer Plan). Additionally, some 
variables were used/manipulated to create indicator variables for the analysis (e.g., DESE-
provided race/ethnicity variables were used to create a separate variable for each racial/ethnic 
group). 
Merging Student-Level Early Literacy Screening Data and State 
Education Data 
Following the cleaning of the student-level screening assessment data and state education 
data, a student-level file was created by merging the two data sources. The following steps 
were taken: 
1. The combined screening assessment file was merged with the June SIMS data where 
possible. The analytic team first attempted to match student screening assessment 
scores with their June SIMS data using the state assigned student identifier (SASID), 
grade level, school code, and district code. Because students may appear multiple times 
within the SIMS data if they transferred to a different school and district within the 
school year, we attempted to connect a student’s screening assessment data with the 
SIMS data that corresponded to the same school and district.  
===PAGE 110===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 106 – 
2. If a match did not occur between the assessment data and June SIMS data using these 
identifiers, we then attempted to match the assessment data, using these same 
identifiers, with the October SIMS data.  
3. If a match did not occur between the assessment data and October SIMS data using 
these identifiers, we then attempted to match the assessment data with their 
appropriate June SIMS observation using the student’s SASID, grade level, and district 
code (i.e., without the school code as a matching variable). The process was repeated 
with the October SIMS data for remaining observations, followed by a merge using 
SASIDs and grade level alone, then a merge using SASIDs and school codes, then a merge 
using SASIDs and district codes, and then a merge based solely on SASIDs. 
4. Some files did not contain the SASID for a student; rather, they only contained the 
student’s locally assigned identifier (LASID), which is unique at the district level. Because 
the identifier is not unique at the state level, all attempted merges used the district code 
as a matching variable.27 
Some screening assessment observations merged with multiple SIMS observations when 
merging on fewer variables than the student identifier, grade level, school code, and district 
code. In these instances, we used the Researcher’s Guide to Massachusetts State Education 
Data28 to determine the appropriate assessment-SIMS match to keep. Typically, we used the 
enrollment status variable, which describes the enrollment status of a student within the school 
(e.g., enrolled students, students who dropped out, students who transferred into the state), 
and the days of membership variable to select the appropriate match. In these instances, 
matches that were higher in the enrollment hierarchy were used; and if two observations had 
the same enrollment status, the observation with the larger number of days of membership 
was selected.  
Because the analysis includes student characteristics, it was important for each observation to 
have the same key demographics, regardless of the SIMS observation that they matched with. 
For the following demographic characteristics, we used the June SIMS data to ensure 
consistency across each observation: gender, race/ethnicity, low income status, English learner 
status, English learner program status, indicator for English learner students attending schools 
in the United States for less than 1 year, Section 504 status, special education status, early 
childhood experience, and native language.  
 
27 Observations with no SASIDs were merged using LASIDs, grade levels, school codes, and 
district codes first, followed by a merge using LASIDs, grade levels, and district codes for 
remaining observations, followed by a merge using LASIDs, school codes, and district codes, 
and finally followed by a merge using LASIDs and district codes. 
28 This resource can be downloaded from Researchers’ Guide to Massachusetts State Education 
Data.  
===PAGE 111===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 107 – 
Out of the 694,858 screening assessment observations used for the analysis for the 2020/21, 
2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 school years, 690,355 (99.4%) matched with a corresponding 
observation in the SIMS data. Of the observations that matched, 688,262 (99.7%) matched with 
an observation in the June SIMS data and 2,093 (0.3%) matched with an observation in the 
October SIMS data. Of the screening assessment observations, 32,247 did not match exactly 
with the SIMS data (i.e., did not match using the grade level, school code, and district code); 
17,457 had a different grade level than their corresponding SIMS observation, 239 had different 
district codes, and 14,832 had different school codes. Almost all grade level differences 
occurred in the 2023–24 school year (99.9%); these differences occurred primarily because 
some screening assessment data were exported by the publisher during the 2024/25 school 
year and thus had the incorrect grade level. Additionally, 93 percent of the school differences 
(13,782 observations) occurred because the screening assessment file did not identify which 
school the student attended. In conducting the analyses, the school and district codes from the 
screening assessment data set were used and the grade levels from the SIMS data set were 
used. Any student with a grade level outside of K–3, according to the SIMS database, was not 
included in the analysis. 
After the screening assessment data were merged with the SIMS collection data, the combined 
file was merged with the MCAS and ACCESS data sets using SASID. The MCAS and ACCESS files 
did not have any duplicate observations; therefore, only the student’s state identifier was used 
to merge the data sets with the combined screening assessment and SIMS file. 
Cleaning and Merging Publicly Available School- and District-
Level Data 
Publicly available school- and district-level data for 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 
were retrieved from DESE’s school and district profiles website to provide contextual data 
about the sample of the students used in analysis. School-level racial/ethnic segregation data 
were retrieved from the Educational Opportunity Project at Stanford University. Overall, the 
data pertain to the following four main categories of information: (a) educator characteristics, 
(b) student performance, (c) student enrollment and demographics, and (d) financial 
information. These data were merged with the student-level longitudinal file using the school 
and district codes from the screening assessment data set. For the observations missing the 
school code from the screening assessment data set, the SIMS school code was used to merge 
with the publicly available school-level data. 
This finalized file with student-level screening assessment data, state education data, and 
publicly available school- and district-level data was provided to DESE. Data are organized 
because a single longitudinal data set with one observation per student, per grade, per time 
period, per screening assessment, per year. Some students have multiple screening assessment 
scores per time period as they took multiple early literacy screening assessments during the 
school year.  
===PAGE 112===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 108 –
Appendix B. Comparability Analysis Details 
Screening Assessment Benchmark Details 
Table B1. Descriptions of Significantly Below Benchmark Score Levels and Availability 
of National Percentile Scores 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to 
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
Acadience 
Reading 
At EOY, a score that indicates performance significantly 
below benchmark (“well below benchmark” in Acadience 
terms) means a student is estimated to have a 10 percent o 
20 percent chance of being above the 40th percentile on 
the Group Reading Assessment and Diagnostic Evaluation 
(GRADE) assessment. MOY risk cut points were established 
such that students were predicted to have a 10 percent to 
20 percent chance of achieving the EOY Acadience Reading 
composite score needed to be above the 40th percentile on 
the GRADE assessment. The BOY score was set such that 
students had the same odds of achieving the MOY 
Acadience Reading composite score. These cut points were 
established based on a study in 13 schools in five school 
districts in 2009/10 with 3,816 participants total 
(1,306 who took the GRADE). 
Yes 
===PAGE 113===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 109 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, a score that indicates performance 
significantly below benchmark (“well below benchmark” or 
“at risk” in DIBELS and mCLASS terms) identifies most 
students who would be expected to score at or below the 
20th percentile on an EOY assessment. For kindergarten, 
the EOY assessment used in analysis was DIBELS Next, and 
it was the Iowa Assessments (total reading score) for 
grades 1–3. The Iowa Assessments test is described as  
“a published, group-administered, multiple-choice, norm-
referenced measure of reading achievement,” and 
technical documentation notes, “Whereas DIBELS Next 
includes letter naming and phonemic awareness 
component skills in the composite score, the Iowa total 
reading score does not assess these same component skills, 
making it a more distal criterion measure.” Based on 
studies carried out between 2017 and 2019 with about 
7,000 K–3 students, the well below benchmark cut score 
will accurately identify 80 percent of students who would 
perform at the 20th percentile or below at EOY. In other 
words, being well below benchmark identifies students 
whose reading skills are still likely to be less well developed 
than those of most of their peers by EOY if they do not 
receive intensive intervention. 
Yes 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
MAP Reading Fluency does not provide a composite score 
based on its subtests. However, it provides a binary 
“Universal Screener outcome flag” that suggests possible 
risk of reading difficulty. MAP Reading Fluency benchmark 
assessments may include different test content for 
different students depending on their grade and skill level, 
and the Universal Screener outcome flag is set differently 
depending on which subtests students take. For students 
who take a foundational skills test form (which can be 
specifically assigned or will be automatically assigned based 
on performance), the Universal Screener outcome is set 
based on results of predictive modeling that identifies 
students as at risk if their performance would likely be 
below the 10th percentile on MAP Growth in reading at 
EOY in that grade level.  
No 
===PAGE 114===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 110 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
mCLASS See the description for DIBELS 8th Edition. (mCLASS 
assessments use DIBELS 8th Edition tasks, and reported 
performance levels are the same.) 
Yes 
mCLASS 
Lectura 
The cut scores were calculated using receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curve analyses, which describe the 
extent to which mCLASS Lectura scores accurately 
predicted performance above or below the 20th percentile 
on external Spanish language criterion measures 
(i.e., Woodcock-Muñoz Análisis de Palabras for 
kindergarten and Star Early Literacy Spanish for  
grades 1–3). This is based on data collected in 2021/2022 
from approximately 1,300 students over about 18 schools 
in 10 districts; it varies by grade level. 
No 
EarlyBird  
(grade K) 
EarlyBird provides different metrics at each time period to 
identify students at risk of reading difficulties. At BOY, 
MOY, and EOY, EarlyBird provides a dyslexia risk flag that is 
used in analysis to identify students at significant risk. 
According to the publisher, dyslexia risk is defined as 
“performing at or below the 16th percentile on the 
Kaufman Test of Educational Achievement, 3rd Edition 
(KTEA-3) Phonological Processing subtest. Any child flagged 
for dyslexia risk is at high risk for low phonological 
processing skills and therefore subsequent low reading 
proficiency and needs intensive instruction targeted to the 
student’s skill weaknesses.” The dyslexia risk flag was set 
based on analysis of data collected in 2019/20 from 
219 students in eight states. The original sample included 
19 schools; it is unclear how many schools were 
represented in the final sample. 
No 
===PAGE 115===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 111 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
FastBridge 
aReading  
(grades 2 and 
3) 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, the FastBridge aReading score that 
indicates performance significantly below benchmark 
(“high risk” in FastBridge terms) means that students are 
performing below the 15th national percentile. The 
15th percentile was selected through studies that used 
predictive analysis (ROC analysis) to assess the classification 
accuracy of those cut points relative to performing below 
the 20th percentile on the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Tests, 
4th Edition (GMRT-4th; MacGinitie, MacGinitie, Maria, & 
Dreyer, 2000) or the measures of academic progress (MAP) 
in 2010/11 in two schools (777 students).   
Yes 
FastBridge 
earlyReading  
(grades K and 
1) 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, the FastBridge earlyReading score 
that indicates performance significantly below benchmark 
(“high risk” in FastBridge terms) means that students are 
performing below the 15th national percentile. The 
15th percentile was selected through studies that used 
predictive analysis (ROC analysis) to assess the classification 
accuracy of those cut points relative to performing below 
the 15th percentile on the GRADE assessment aimed to 
maximize specificity and sensitivity. Data were collected 
from two school districts (numbers of students and schools 
not provided). 
Yes 
i-Ready 
Diagnostic 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, scores that indicate performance 
significantly below benchmark (“at risk” on i-Ready 
Diagnostic) describe the grade level associated with a 
student’s performance in the context of college and career 
readiness standards. That is, “significantly below 
benchmark” generally means that students are performing 
one or more grade levels below their assigned grade. For 
example, at BOY, grade 3 students classified as “at risk” 
based on i-Ready Diagnostic are performing at or below 
grade 1 standards; at MOY, grade 3 students classified as at 
risk are performing at grade 2 standards or below; and at 
EOY, grade 3 students classified as at risk are performing at 
or below a level that indicates partially meeting grade 
3 standards. 
Yes 
===PAGE 116===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 112 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
Star Early 
Literacy 
(English and 
Spanish; 
grades K and 
1)  
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, a score that indicates performance 
significantly below benchmark (“intervention” or “urgent 
intervention” in Star terms) means that students are 
performing below the 25th national percentile based on a 
2014/15 study including more than 500,000 unique 
students who took Star assessments. At least 75 percent of 
students would be expected to perform better than 
students scoring at the intervention or urgent intervention 
level. 
Yes 
Star Reading 
(English and 
Spanish; 
grades 2 and 
3) 
See the description of Star Early Literacy benchmarks in the 
previous row. 
Yes 
Source: WestEd’s compilation based on technical documentation and/or communication with 
publishers. (See the references for a list of technical reports and related documentation.) 
Screening Assessment Agreement Rates 
Table B2. Percentage of Times Screening Assessment Results Match for Same Students 
At BOY, MOY, EOY 
Early literacy screening 
assessments 
BOY  
(N, % agree) 
MOY  
(N, % agree) 
EOY  
(N, % agree) 
DIBELS 8th Edition and  
i-Ready 
997 
74% 
1,110 
73% 
1,100 
62% 
Star Reading and 
mCLASS 
995 
84% 
1,103 
85% 
1,115 
85% 
EarlyBird and mCLASS 355 
47% 
624 
63% 
492 
73% 
i-Ready and mCLASS 185 
84% 
176 
81% 
189 
76% 
EarlyBird and i-Ready 182 
81% 
120 
77% 
310 
72% 
===PAGE 117===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 113 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessments 
BOY  
(N, % agree) 
MOY  
(N, % agree) 
EOY  
(N, % agree) 
Star Early Literacy and 
mCLASS 
178 
68% 
172 
76% 
165 
81% 
Note. Includes students with any number of scores. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Comparability Testing 
As part of the analysis for this year’s report, WestEd tested several different approaches to 
developing comparable metrics for reporting reading risk.  
We tested three approaches:  
1. Equipercentile linking of each screening assessment to MCAS 
2. Equipercentile linking of each screening assessment to DIBELS/mCLASS 
3. Equipercentile linking of each screening assessment to DIBELS/mCLASS, then pooling 
data and calculating the 25th percentile scores using only Massachusetts student data 
We briefly describe each approach here. The descriptions are followed by information to help 
evaluate the quality of the results. We also provide tables that show the numbers of students 
who would be identified as at significant risk at each grade level and time period using these 
three approaches, plus the existing publisher-provided benchmarks and the 25th national 
percentile for comparison purposes. A detailed description of the equipercentile linking 
procedure and additional tables showing grade 3 screening benchmarks linked to the MCAS 
scale follow. 
1. Equipercentile Linking of Each Screening Assessment to MCAS 
In this approach, we take students’ screening assessment scores where we have complete data 
for each time point (beginning, middle, and end of year) and grade level and link to 2024 MCAS 
tests. Using a same-persons (common students) design, we link to the 3rd grade 2024 MCAS 
ELA assessment:  
• Grade 3 screening assessment data are from the 2023/24 school year. 
• Grade 2 screening assessment data are from the 2022/23 school year. 
• Grade 1 screening assessment data are from the 2021/22 school year.  
We only used data from students with both scores. Due to data limitations, sample sizes 
decreased with greater time intervals between screening assessment administration and spring 
2024 MCAS. Note also that we linked Star Reading at grades 2 and 3 and Star Early Literacy at 
grades K and 1 because these are the generally recommended grade levels for students to take 
===PAGE 118===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 114 – 
these assessments. Though there are students who take these assessments at other grade 
levels, those students represent different populations than the typical students at those grades.  
After linking, for purposes of illustrating an approach for the state to select a benchmark, we 
chose an MCAS score of 470 (the cut between Does Not Meet and Partially Meets) as a sample 
cut score indicating risk of reading difficulty.  
2. Equipercentile Linking of Each Screening Assessment to 
DIBELS/mCLASS 
In this approach, two screening assessment scores were linked within a grade level and time of 
year. For this design, common students were not available across different screening 
assessments. Also, the characteristics of the population of students taking different screening 
assessments may vary. To account for these differences, we used coarsened exact matching, a 
statistical technique to group similar students based on demographic characteristics and their 
school MCAS performance. We used matched sample data from the 2023/24 school year where 
we had at least 250 observations at the beginning, middle, and end of year for the linking study. 
The following screening assessments met the sample size requirement to link to 
DIBELS/mCLASS: 
• Acadience Reading 
• FastBridge aReading and earlyReading 
• Star Early Literacy 
• Star Reading 
• i-Ready 
After linking, we used linked scores to illustrate two different approaches for the state to select 
a benchmark. First, we simply applied the DIBELS/mCLASS Below and Well Below Benchmarks 
to all other screening assessments. This method shows how the state could capitalize on an 
existing assessment’s risk benchmarks while still using other screening assessments. The second 
approach uses linked scores to compute a Massachusetts-specific percentile score (in this case, 
the 25th percentile) to show how the state could create a normative benchmark using 
Massachusetts student screening data from multiple assessments. 
3. Equipercentile Linking of Each Screening Assessment to 
DIBELS/mCLASS, Then Pooling Data and Calculating the 25th Percentile 
Scores Using Only Massachusetts Student Data 
For this analysis, we followed a similar procedure to that described earlier, except we then 
combined data by grade and time period and found the 25th percentile value using the linked 
data and used this as an example benchmark. 
===PAGE 119===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 115 – 
Evaluation Metrics 
Where possible we evaluated the following metrics to understand the quality of the linking: 
• linked scores’ correlation with the observed scores 
• standard errors of the linking estimates 
• similarity of the students across linked and observed scores 
In the first section (Tables B3–B29), we provide MCAS linking results. Tables B30–B53 show 
results for DIBELS/mCLASS linking.  
Not surprisingly, overall the MCAS linking is strongest for assessments with larger samples and 
at later grade levels. Correlations between observed and linked MCAS scores range from about 
0.55 to 0.84 depending on the screening assessment and time of year (Tables B3–B5). Tables 
B6–B8 show descriptive statistics comparing linked scores and observed scores. These show 
that on average the linked and observed scores are similar, but there is significant variation 
when comparing individual scores. Tables B9–B11 show similar statistics by MCAS performance 
level, showing more accurate links in the middle of the scale (for students in the Partially 
Meeting Expectations and Meeting Expectations levels). Tables B12–B14 provide estimates of 
the linking error at the specific MCAS cut score of 470, which separates the Not Meeting 
Expectations from Partially Meeting Expectations. Average error tends to be 1–3 MCAS scale 
score points, but it is larger for Acadience. Tables B15–B29 show classification accuracy using 
our illustrative cut point of 470. Applying this as a sample risk indicator to screening assessment 
data and then comparing it to observed MCAS scores, we see that between 71 and 94 percent 
of students would be accurately classified into Does Not Meet or above Does Not Meet 
categories. There is some variation across assessments and grades, but the accuracy would be 
considered in the “good” range. Tables B18–B29 show the classification data by student 
subgroup to assess how well they apply for students with different background characteristics. 
We included results for which we had at least 100 students in each group.  
This disaggregated analysis of the proportion of students with the same Not Meeting 
Expectations (MCAS) scores shows that this linking approach (MCAS) generally maintained good 
agreement rates across student populations. However, agreement rates were higher for 
students without IEPs and for students not from low income backgrounds compared with those 
with IEPs or who were classified as being from low income backgrounds. These variations may 
reflect differences in score distributions rather than linking quality. Gender differences were 
minimal across all screening assessments, with agreement rates varying by less than 
2 percentage points between female and male students. While some differences were 
observed across racial/ethnic groups, most screening assessments maintained acceptable 
agreement levels (0.70 or higher) across demographic categories. These findings suggest that 
the linking methods provide reasonably consistent results across different student groups, 
though educators may benefit from considering these patterns when interpreting linked scores, 
particularly for students with IEPs. 
===PAGE 120===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 116 – 
Tables B30–B53 provide similar information for the DIBELS/mCLASS linking. Table B31 shows 
that the average error was about 1–3 DIBELS/mCLASS scale score points at the Below 
Benchmark cut-score location. Tables B34–B53 show how often classifications using 
DIBELS/mCLASS benchmarks agreed with classifications using each assessment’s original 
benchmarks (i.e., whether or not students were classified as at risk using each). We focused our 
analysis on those identified in the lowest benchmarks (on DIBELS and mCLASS, the performance 
level Well Below Benchmark). Tables B34–B37 show overall classification accuracy, and Tables 
B38–B53 break these down by student subgroups. Like the MCAS analysis, we reported findings 
when sample sizes were at least 100. In most instances, classification accuracy between the 
observed and linked benchmarks was greater than 70 percent and in many instances was above 
80 percent. The differences by demographic characteristics were smaller compared with the 
MCAS analysis. For example, the rates for those with an IEP and those without an IEP were 
similar (see Tables B42–45). This disaggregated analysis provides evidence that the linking 
approach was relatively accurate overall and for each subgroup. 
MCAS Linking Results 
Table B3. Correlations of Linked MCAS Scores to Observed MCAS Scores by Grade, 
Time of Year, and Screening Assessment, Including Sample Size, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.553 (1,350) 0.604 (1,423) 0.626 (1,467) 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 0.611 (1,453) 0.657 (1,838) 0.656 (1,861) 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.641 (666) 0.679 (669) 0.698 (409) 
mCLASS 0.609 (546) 0.641 (568) 0.632 (575) 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 121===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 117 – 
Table B4. Correlations of Linked MCAS Scores to Observed MCAS Scores by Grade, 
Time of Year, and Screening Assessment, Including Sample Size, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 0.640 (443) 0.687 (401) 0.705 (403) 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.670 (2,352) 0.674 (2,550) 0.670 (2,605) 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.683 (3,513) 0.750 (3,760) 0.761 (3,931) 
i-Ready 0.763 (2,199) 0.789 (2,223) 0.800 (2,224) 
mCLASS 0.690 (2,169) 0.685 (2,182) 0.695 (2,570) 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B5. Correlations of Linked MCAS Scores to Observed MCAS Scores by Grade, 
Time of Year, and Screening Assessment, Including Sample Size, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 0.697 (465) 0.700 (467) 0.714 (466) 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.657 (5,724) 0.662 (5,982) 0.645 (5,612) 
FastBridge aReading 0.778 (573) 0.802 (557) 0.824 (583) 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.798 (5,158) 0.824 (5,143) 0.832 (5,207) 
i-Ready 0.809 (3,847) 0.833 (3,873) 0.841 (3,858) 
mCLASS 0.703 (11,208) 0.694 (11,190) 0.682 (10,981) 
===PAGE 122===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 118 – 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B6. Descriptive Statistics of Difference in MCAS Scale Score Estimates by 
Screening Assessment and Grade Level (in MCAS Scale Score Points), Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
DIBELS 8th Edition NSD 19.77 –105 81 
Star Early Literacy –0.55 18.49 –69 93 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready –0.21 16.31 –65 55 
mCLASS –0.28 18.95 –68 66 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B7. Descriptive Statistics of Difference in MCAS Scale Score Estimates by 
Screening Assessment and Grade Level (in MCAS Scale Score Points), Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
DIBELS 8th Edition –0.18 18.08 –99 71 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading –0.79 15.86 –83 74 
i-Ready –0.28 15.16 –76 58 
mCLASS –0.53 17.78 –72 69 
Acadience Reading –0.18 16.51 –57 47 
===PAGE 123===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 119 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B8. Descriptive Statistics of Difference in MCAS Scale Score Estimates by 
Screening Assessment and Grade Level (in MCAS Scale Score Points), Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
DIBELS 8th Edition –0.22 18.54 –93 87 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading –0.35 13.45 –69 83 
i-Ready –0.22 12.97 –66 63 
mCLASS –0.19 18.05 –79 96 
Acadience Reading –0.47 15.78 –59 49 
FastBridge aReading –0.08 13.54 –53 53 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B9. Descriptive Statistics of the Difference in Linked and Observed MCAS Scale 
Scores by Screening Assessment, MCAS Benchmark, Grade Level, and Performance 
Levels, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
===PAGE 124===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 120 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition Not meeting 
expectations 
14.71 19.18 –27 81 
DIBELS 8th Edition Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.24 17.37 –52 68 
DIBELS 8th Edition Meeting 
expectations 
–5.49 17.88 –75 54 
DIBELS 8th Edition Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.03 20.14 –105 24 
FastBridge aReading Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Not meeting 
expectations 
9.30 16.44 –27 93 
Star Early Literacy Partially meeting 
expectations 
–1.42 17.08 –54 64 
Star Early Literacy Meeting 
expectations 
–7.65 18.03 –69 47 
Star Early Literacy Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.84 17.41 –62 16 
===PAGE 125===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 121 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Star Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready Not meeting 
expectations 
13.21 15.87 –23 55 
i-Ready Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.74 15.40 –45 46 
i-Ready Meeting 
expectations 
–4.34 14.59 –59 31 
i-Ready Exceeding 
expectations 
–12.94 17.23 –65 23 
mCLASS Not meeting 
expectations 
14.81 17.28 –26 66 
mCLASS Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.45 16.51 –54 54 
mCLASS Meeting 
expectations 
–4.08 18.22 –68 40 
mCLASS Exceeding 
expectations 
–18.52 15.98 –59 24 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 126===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 122 – 
Table B10. Descriptive Statistics of the Difference in Linked and Observed MCAS Scale 
Scores by Screening Assessment, MCAS Benchmark, Grade Level, and Performance 
Levels, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
14.33 17.01 –25 47 
Acadience Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
3.80 14.49 –48 40 
Acadience Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–0.62 15.28 –37 35 
Acadience Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–15.12 16.37 –57 19 
DIBELS 8th Edition Not meeting 
expectations 
10.69 15.91 –25 64 
DIBELS 8th Edition Partially meeting 
expectations 
3.41 16.83 –51 71 
DIBELS 8th Edition Meeting 
expectations 
–4.24 16.90 –77 59 
DIBELS 8th Edition Exceeding 
expectations 
–17.38 16.06 –99 24 
FastBridge aReading Not meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Partially meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Exceeding 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Star Early Literacy Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 127===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 123 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Star Early Literacy Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
7.55 15.64 –27 74 
Star Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.67 15.07 –57 61 
Star Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–4.03 15.20 –81 47 
Star Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–13.05 14.26 –83 24 
i-Ready Not meeting 
expectations 
6.75 15.10 –26 58 
i-Ready Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.57 14.53 –52 52 
i-Ready Meeting 
expectations 
–3.95 13.78 –63 39 
i-Ready Exceeding 
expectations 
–11.50 16.69 –76 26 
mCLASS Not meeting 
expectations 
9.67 15.94 –27 69 
mCLASS Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.03 16.21 –57 69 
mCLASS Meeting 
expectations 
–4.23 16.86 –70 49 
mCLASS Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.00 15.99 –72 21 
===PAGE 128===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 124 – 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B11. Descriptive Statistics of the Difference in Linked and Observed MCAS Scale 
Scores by Screening Assessment, MCAS Benchmark, Grade Level, and Performance 
Levels, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
13.79 15.65 –22 43 
Acadience Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.96 13.91 –44 41 
Acadience Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–0.54 14.54 –41 49 
Acadience Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–14.60 16.14 –59 23 
DIBELS 8th Edition Not meeting 
expectations 
10.74 17.73 –26 87 
DIBELS 8th Edition Partially meeting 
expectations 
3.13 17.15 –54 66 
DIBELS 8th Edition Meeting 
expectations 
–5.38 16.79 –78 57 
DIBELS 8th Edition Exceeding 
expectations 
–18.97 16.11 –93 25 
FastBridge aReading Not meeting 
expectations 
9.12 14.13 –28 53 
FastBridge aReading Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.58 13.89 –45 33 
FastBridge aReading Meeting 
expectations 
–1.97 11.24 –48 28 
===PAGE 129===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 125 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
FastBridge aReading Exceeding 
expectations 
–9.31 14.08 –53 22 
Star Early Literacy Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
4.90 13.48 –27 83 
Star Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.39 12.69 –57 54 
Star Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–2.89 12.88 –69 46 
Star Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–12.13 13.20 –53 28 
i-Ready Not meeting 
expectations 
5.98 13.69 –27 63 
i-Ready Partially meeting 
expectations 
–0.17 12.12 –49 50 
i-Ready Meeting 
expectations 
–2.67 11.95 –66 48 
i-Ready Exceeding 
expectations 
–11.44 13.32 –51 28 
mCLASS Not meeting 
expectations 
8.71 16.41 –28 96 
mCLASS Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.04 17.32 –55 83 
===PAGE 130===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 126 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
mCLASS Meeting 
expectations 
–5.20 16.41 –79 54 
mCLASS Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.25 14.92 –69 29 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B12. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of MCAS Scale 
Scores, At the Partially Meeting Expectations MCAS Performance Level Cut Score by 
Screening Assessment and Grade, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 1.173 0.703 1.694 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 3.464 3.053 4.100 
mCLASS 2.281 0.959 3.938 
Star Early Literacy 4.163 3.445 5.045 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data 
===PAGE 131===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 127 – 
Table B13. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of MCAS Scale 
Scores, At the Partially Meeting Expectations MCAS Performance Level Cut Score by 
Screening Assessment and Grade, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 12.262 7.881 20.171 
DIBELS 8th Edition 1.502 1.084 1.856 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD 
i-Ready 2.992 2.618 3.189 
mCLASS 1.508 0.981 1.980 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 3.207 2.504 3.801 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data 
Table B14. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of MCAS Scale 
Scores, At the Partially Meeting Expectations MCAS Performance Level Cut Score by 
Screening Assessment and Grade, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 28.284 24.520 30.971 
DIBELS 8th Edition 1.118 0.976 1.288 
FastBridge aReading 4.066 3.050 5.059 
i-Ready 2.492 2.360 2.664 
mCLASS 0.880 0.650 1.085 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 132===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 128 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Star Reading 3.528 2.916 4.167 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data 
Table B15. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.844 4,240 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.866 1,744 
mCLASS 0.864 1,689 
Star Early Literacy 0.765 5,152 
Star Reading N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B16. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.935 1,247 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.883 7,507 
===PAGE 133===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 129 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD 
i-Ready 0.868 6,646 
mCLASS 0.872 6,921 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.872 11,204 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B17. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.941 1,398 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.870 17,318 
FastBridge aReading 0.883 1,713 
i-Ready 0.876 11,578 
mCLASS 0.851 33,379 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.880 15,508 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 134===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 130 – 
Table B18. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and IEP 
Status, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Yes NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.870 3,623 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.689 617 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
i-Ready No 0.896 1,449 
i-Ready Yes 0.715 295 
mCLASS No 0.907 1,402 
mCLASS Yes 0.655 287 
Star Early Literacy No 0.787 4,249 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.659 903 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 135===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 131 – 
Table B19. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and IEP 
Status, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.967 993 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.811 254 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.918 6,171 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.719 1,328 
FastBridge aReading No NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Yes NSD NSD 
i-Ready No 0.904 5,285 
i-Ready Yes 0.731 1,353 
mCLASS No 0.905 5,730 
mCLASS Yes 0.710 1,191 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.897 9,381 
Star Reading Yes 0.738 1,823 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 136===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 132 – 
Table B20. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and IEP 
Status, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.979 1,097 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.804 301 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.925 13,390 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.682 3,921 
FastBridge aReading No 0.941 1,350 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.669 363 
i-Ready No 0.924 8,785 
i-Ready Yes 0.722 2,783 
mCLASS No 0.900 26,023 
mCLASS Yes 0.674 7,353 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.913 12,071 
Star Reading Yes 0.762 3,434 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 137===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 133 – 
Table B21. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and Low 
Income Status, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Yes NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.924 2,237 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.754 2,003 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
i-Ready No 0.886 1,240 
i-Ready Yes 0.815 504 
mCLASS No 0.928 880 
mCLASS Yes 0.795 809 
Star Early Literacy No 0.875 1,519 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.719 3,633 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 138===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 134 – 
Table B22. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and Low 
Income Status, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.947 1,080 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.856 167 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.934 4,582 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.804 2,917 
FastBridge aReading No NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Yes NSD NSD 
i-Ready No 0.911 3,929 
i-Ready Yes 0.806 2,709 
mCLASS No 0.919 3,922 
mCLASS Yes 0.809 2,999 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.917 5,890 
Star Reading Yes 0.822 5,314 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 139===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 135 – 
Table B23. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and Low 
Income Status, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.957 1,220 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.831 178 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.908 11,020 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.804 6,291 
FastBridge aReading No 0.920 1,013 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.830 700 
i-Ready No 0.911 6,764 
i-Ready Yes 0.825 4,804 
mCLASS No 0.909 16,686 
mCLASS Yes 0.792 16,690 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.921 7,904 
Star Reading Yes 0.837 7,601 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 140===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 136 – 
Table B24. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Race/Ethnicity, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading White NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition Asian 0.910 288 
DIBELS 8th Edition Black 0.729 166 
DIBELS 8th Edition Hispanic 0.757 1,350 
DIBELS 8th Edition Other 0.851 181 
DIBELS 8th Edition White 0.895 2255 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Other N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading White N/A N/A 
i-Ready Asian NSD NSD 
i-Ready Black 0.791 129 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.876 121 
i-Ready Other NSD NSD 
i-Ready White 0.868 1,376 
mCLASS Asian 0.900 642 
mCLASS Black 0.743 105 
mCLASS Hispanic 0.834 151 
mCLASS Other NSD NSD 
mCLASS White 0.876 709 
Star Early Literacy Asian 0.823 237 
Star Early Literacy Black 0.778 595 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic 0.707 2,228 
===PAGE 141===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 137 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Other 0.771 236 
Star Early Literacy White 0.822 1,856 
Star Reading Asian N/A N/A 
Star Reading Black N/A N/A 
Star Reading Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Reading Other N/A N/A 
Star Reading White N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B25. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Race/Ethnicity, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading White 0.938 1,121 
DIBELS 8th Edition Asian 0.884 481 
DIBELS 8th Edition Black 0.809 341 
DIBELS 8th Edition Hispanic 0.804 1,675 
DIBELS 8th Edition Other 0.917 349 
DIBELS 8th Edition White 0.914 4,661 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Other NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading White NSD NSD 
===PAGE 142===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 138 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
i-Ready Asian 0.919 248 
i-Ready Black 0.800 330 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.804 1,838 
i-Ready Other 0.920 311 
i-Ready White 0.897 3,919 
mCLASS Asian 0.939 1,290 
mCLASS Black 0.816 629 
mCLASS Hispanic 0.796 1,519 
mCLASS Other 0.843 383 
mCLASS White 0.896 3,100 
Star Early Literacy Asian N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Black N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Other N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Asian 0.938 291 
Star Reading Black 0.832 762 
Star Reading Hispanic 0.816 2,935 
Star Reading Other 0.865 569 
Star Reading White 0.898 6,647 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 143===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 139 – 
Table B26. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Race/Ethnicity, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading White 0.939 1,257 
DIBELS 8th Edition Asian 0.902 961 
DIBELS 8th Edition Black 0.805 734 
DIBELS 8th Edition Hispanic 0.807 4,060 
DIBELS 8th Edition Other 0.880 752 
DIBELS 8th Edition White 0.895 10,811 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic 0.876 177 
FastBridge aReading Other 0.896 134 
FastBridge aReading White 0.886 1,238 
i-Ready Asian 0.922 334 
i-Ready Black 0.868 736 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.808 3,151 
i-Ready Other 0.921 483 
i-Ready White 0.902 6,874 
mCLASS Asian 0.933 2,931 
mCLASS Black 0.807 5,089 
mCLASS Hispanic 0.789 9,520 
mCLASS Other 0.850 1,689 
mCLASS White 0.891 14,150 
Star Early Literacy Asian N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Black N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic N/A N/A 
===PAGE 144===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 140 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Other N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Asian 0.910 466 
Star Reading Black 0.854 1,093 
Star Reading Hispanic 0.827 4,886 
Star Reading Other 0.862 744 
Star Reading White 0.914 8,319 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B27. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Gender, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading MA NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition FE 0.862 2,124 
DIBELS 8th Edition MA 0.827 2,113 
FastBridge aReading FE N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading MA N/A N/A 
i-Ready FE 0.884 865 
i-Ready MA 0.848 879 
mCLASS FE 0.854 793 
===PAGE 145===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 141 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
mCLASS MA 0.874 896 
Star Early Literacy FE 0.778 2,550 
Star Early Literacy MA 0.752 2,602 
Star Reading FE N/A N/A 
Star Reading MA N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B28. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Gender, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.930 631 
Acadience Reading MA 0.940 616 
DIBELS 8th Edition FE 0.899 3,729 
DIBELS 8th Edition MA 0.868 3,766 
FastBridge aReading FE NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading MA NSD NSD 
i-Ready FE 0.891 3,197 
i-Ready MA 0.848 3,437 
mCLASS FE 0.873 3,332 
mCLASS MA 0.870 3,589 
Star Early Literacy FE N/A N/A 
===PAGE 146===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 142 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy MA N/A N/A 
Star Reading FE 0.880 5,652 
Star Reading MA 0.863 5,550 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B29. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Gender, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.944 697 
Acadience Reading MA 0.939 701 
DIBELS 8th Edition FE 0.886 8,524 
DIBELS 8th Edition MA 0.855 8,778 
FastBridge aReading FE 0.904 874 
FastBridge aReading MA 0.862 839 
i-Ready FE 0.887 5,543 
i-Ready MA 0.865 6,019 
mCLASS FE 0.858 16,302 
mCLASS MA 0.843 17,056 
Star Early Literacy FE N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy MA N/A N/A 
Star Reading FE 0.892 7,727 
===PAGE 147===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 143 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Star Reading MA 0.868 7,775 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
DIBELS/mCLASS Linking Results 
Table B30. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of 
DIBELS/mCLASS Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening 
Assessment and Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year,  
Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 1.284 0.825 1.881 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 1.539 1.267 2.022 
i-Ready 0.772 0.486 1.080 
Star Early Literacy 0.606 0.368 0.861 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 148===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 144 – 
Table B31. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of DIBELS/mCLASS 
Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening Assessment and  
Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 2.034 1.299 2.702 
FastBridge aReading 2.643 1.910 3.350 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.975 0.724 1.212 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.908 0.698 1.099 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B32. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of 
DIBELS/mCLASS Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening 
Assessment and Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year,  
Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 2.752 2.341 3.161 
FastBridge aReading 2.633 2.186 2.913 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 1.070 0.925 1.202 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.972 0.843 1.096 
===PAGE 149===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 145 – 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B33. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of 
DIBELS/mCLASS Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening 
Assessment and Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year,  
Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 2.112 1.649 2.504 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 2.662 2.083 3.232 
i-Ready 1.503 1.202 1.991 
Star Early Literacy 1.035 0.786 1.350 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B34. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.934 2,640 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 0.951 2,708 
Star Early Literacy 0.899 14,708 
Star Reading N/A N/A 
===PAGE 150===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 146 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
i-Ready 0.703 11,455 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B35. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.969 2,015 
FastBridge aReading 0.950 2,114 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.959 12,749 
i-Ready 0.808 13,120 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B36. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.929 1,420 
FastBridge aReading 0.922 1,939 
===PAGE 151===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 147 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.933 15,931 
i-Ready 0.813 11,959 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B37. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.948 2,763 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 0.917 2,744 
Star Early Literacy 0.953 14,629 
Star Reading N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.767 9,034 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 152===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 148 – 
Table B38. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Gender, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.920 1,231 
Acadience Reading MA 0.947 1,398 
FastBridge aReading FE N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading MA N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading FE 0.943 1,206 
FastBridge earlyReading MA 0.954 1,334 
Star Early Literacy FE 0.899 7,126 
Star Early Literacy MA 0.898 7,561 
Star Reading FE N/A N/A 
Star Reading MA N/A N/A 
i-Ready FE 0.700 5,590 
i-Ready MA 0.706 5,841 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B39. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Gender, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.972 980 
===PAGE 153===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 149 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading MA 0.966 1,032 
FastBridge aReading FE 0.944 857 
FastBridge aReading MA 0.952 973 
FastBridge earlyReading FE N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading MA N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy FE N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy MA N/A N/A 
Star Reading FE 0.957 6,182 
Star Reading MA 0.960 6,553 
i-Ready FE 0.805 6,296 
i-Ready MA 0.811 6,802 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B40. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Gender, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.944 698 
Acadience Reading MA 0.914 721 
FastBridge aReading FE 0.937 887 
FastBridge aReading MA 0.908 850 
===PAGE 154===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 150 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
FastBridge earlyReading FE N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading MA N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy FE N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy MA N/A N/A 
Star Reading FE 0.931 7,899 
Star Reading MA 0.935 8,018 
i-Ready FE 0.809 5,685 
i-Ready MA 0.816 6,245 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B41. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Gender, Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.950 1,252 
Acadience Reading MA 0.947 1,293 
FastBridge aReading FE N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading MA N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading FE 0.902 1,343 
FastBridge earlyReading MA 0.927 1,270 
Star Early Literacy FE 0.951 7,054 
===PAGE 155===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 151 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy MA 0.955 7,430 
Star Reading FE N/A N/A 
Star Reading MA N/A N/A 
i-Ready FE 0.776 4,374 
i-Ready MA 0.759 4,542 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B42. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and IEP Status, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.938 2,198 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.916 431 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading No 0.952 2,044 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes 0.938 499 
Star Early Literacy No 0.901 12,067 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.885 2,622 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
===PAGE 156===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 152 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment IEP Accuracy N 
i-Ready No 0.717 9,319 
i-Ready Yes 0.645 2,115 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B43. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and IEP Status, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.979 1,552 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.935 460 
FastBridge aReading No 0.968 1,425 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.879 405 
FastBridge earlyReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.961 10,580 
Star Reading Yes 0.948 2,162 
i-Ready No 0.804 10,236 
i-Ready Yes 0.824 2,868 
===PAGE 157===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 153 – 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B44. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and IEP Status, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.945 1,106 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.872 313 
FastBridge aReading No 0.939 1,364 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.863 373 
FastBridge earlyReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.937 12,378 
Star Reading Yes 0.918 3,542 
i-Ready No 0.811 9,035 
i-Ready Yes 0.820 2,901 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 158===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 154 – 
Table B45. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and IEP Status, Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.954 2,064 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.926 484 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading No 0.919 2,193 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes 0.888 420 
Star Early Literacy No 0.955 12,369 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.944 2,115 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
i-Ready No 0.776 7,399 
i-Ready Yes 0.726 1,519 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B46. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Race/Ethnicity, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Black 0.942 120 
===PAGE 159===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 155 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Hispanic 0.936 595 
Acadience Reading Other 0.944 107 
Acadience Reading White 0.934 1,790 
Acadience Reading Asian NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Other N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading White N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Black 0.938 176 
FastBridge earlyReading Hispanic 0.932 322 
FastBridge earlyReading Other 0.962 390 
FastBridge earlyReading White 0.952 1,740 
Star Early Literacy Asian 0.898 480 
Star Early Literacy Black 0.896 1,039 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic 0.876 5,471 
Star Early Literacy Other 0.913 793 
Star Early Literacy White 0.915 6,925 
Star Reading Black N/A N/A 
Star Reading Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Reading Other N/A N/A 
Star Reading White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Asian N/A N/A 
i-Ready Asian 0.744 395 
i-Ready Black 0.706 660 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.690 3,585 
===PAGE 160===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 156 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
i-Ready Other 0.692 520 
i-Ready White 0.709 6,295 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B47. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Race/Ethnicity, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Black NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Hispanic 0.985 328 
Acadience Reading Other NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading White 0.967 1,517 
Acadience Reading Asian NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic 0.940 151 
FastBridge aReading Other 0.952 398 
FastBridge aReading White 0.947 1,398 
FastBridge earlyReading Black N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Hispanic N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Other N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading White N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Asian N/A N/A 
===PAGE 161===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 157 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Black N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Other N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Black 0.956 904 
Star Reading Hispanic 0.956 3,232 
Star Reading Other 0.968 659 
Star Reading White 0.958 7,598 
Star Reading Asian 0.972 356 
i-Ready Asian 0.852 371 
i-Ready Black 0.795 848 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.815 3,614 
i-Ready Other 0.800 564 
i-Ready White 0.805 7,723 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B48. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Race/Ethnicity, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Black NSD NSD 
===PAGE 162===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 158 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Hispanic NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Other NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading White 0.929 1,274 
Acadience Reading Asian NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic 0.962 185 
FastBridge aReading Other 0.886 342 
FastBridge aReading White 0.927 1,244 
FastBridge earlyReading Black N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Hispanic N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Other N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading White N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Asian N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Black N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Other N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Black 0.910 1,140 
Star Reading Hispanic 0.916 5,152 
Star Reading Other 0.939 770 
Star Reading White 0.946 8,393 
Star Reading Asian 0.943 476 
i-Ready Asian 0.799 344 
i-Ready Black 0.788 777 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.822 3,379 
===PAGE 163===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 159 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
i-Ready Other 0.795 502 
i-Ready White 0.813 6,957 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B49. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Race/Ethnicity, Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Black 0.932 103 
Acadience Reading Hispanic 0.914 618 
Acadience Reading Other 0.928 333 
Acadience Reading White 0.963 1,583 
Acadience Reading Asian 0.984 126 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Other N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading White N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Black 0.910 178 
FastBridge earlyReading Hispanic 0.885 331 
FastBridge earlyReading Other 0.921 342 
FastBridge earlyReading White 0.921 1,801 
Star Early Literacy Asian 0.958 721 
===PAGE 164===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 160 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Race/ethnicity Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Black 0.940 1,090 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic 0.945 5,096 
Star Early Literacy Other 0.957 1,018 
Star Early Literacy White 0.961 6,704 
Star Reading Black N/A N/A 
Star Reading Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Reading Other N/A N/A 
Star Reading White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Asian N/A N/A 
i-Ready Asian 0.824 238 
i-Ready Black 0.758 604 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.667 2,783 
i-Ready Other 0.786 457 
i-Ready White 0.819 4,952 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B50. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Low Income Status, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.938 1,623 
===PAGE 165===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 161 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.929 1,006 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading No 0.970 1,286 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes 0.927 1,257 
Star Early Literacy No 0.912 6,615 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.887 8,074 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
i-Ready No 0.726 6,180 
i-Ready Yes 0.676 5,254 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B51. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Low Income Status, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.972 1,384 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.963 628 
FastBridge aReading No 0.969 1,089 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.918 741 
===PAGE 166===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 162 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
FastBridge earlyReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.963 6,976 
Star Reading Yes 0.953 5,766 
i-Ready No 0.812 7,301 
i-Ready Yes 0.803 5,803 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B52. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Low Income Status, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.935 1,238 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.884 181 
FastBridge aReading No 0.945 1,017 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.892 720 
FastBridge earlyReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
===PAGE 167===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 163 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.946 7,971 
Star Reading Yes 0.920 7,949 
i-Ready No 0.820 6,837 
i-Ready Yes 0.803 5,099 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B53. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared With Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores by Grade and Low Income Status, Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.964 1,541 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.925 1,007 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading No 0.945 1,317 
FastBridge earlyReading Yes 0.883 1,296 
Star Early Literacy No 0.962 7,204 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.945 7,280 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
===PAGE 168===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 164 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment LI Accuracy N 
i-Ready No 0.826 4,778 
i-Ready Yes 0.700 4,140 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Tables B54–B72 provide the percentages of students significantly below benchmark using 
different benchmarks (results of comparability testing). 
Table B54. Percentage of Kindergarten Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
Publisher-Provided Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 24% 20% 11% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 38% 25% 13% 
EarlyBird 58% 39% 26% 
FastBridge earlyReading 10% 17% 17% 
MAP Reading Fluency 32% 26% 17% 
Star Early Literacy 42% 24% 22% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
55% 50% 61% 
i-Ready 3% 37% 46% 
mCLASS 40% 35% 24% 
mCLASS Lectura 37% 26% 17% 
All screening assessments 36% 30% 22% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 169===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 165 – 
Table B55. Percentage of Kindergarten Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
25th National Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 21% 29% 28% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 16% 14% 14% 
EarlyBird N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 21% 37% 31% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 42% 25% 23% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
56% 52% 61% 
i-Ready 25% 23% 26% 
mCLASS 20% 25% 24% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 24% 23% 23% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B56. Percentage of Kindergarten Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
Massachusetts 25th Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 20% 18% 18% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 24% 23% 20% 
EarlyBird N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 12% 14% 16% 
===PAGE 170===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 166 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 27% 26% 27% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 22% 24% 23% 
mCLASS 28% 30% 28% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 25% 26% 25% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B57. Percentage of Kindergarten Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
DIBELS Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 30% 24% 14% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 38% 25% 13% 
EarlyBird N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 21% 20% 11% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 37% 30% 22% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 31% 27% 15% 
mCLASS 40% 35% 24% 
===PAGE 171===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 167 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 37% 30% 19% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B58. Percentage of Grade 1 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, Publisher-
Provided Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 22% 29% 23% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 30% 25% 13% 
FastBridge earlyReading 19% 24% 20% 
MAP Reading Fluency 34% 28% 20% 
Star Early Literacy 44% 37% 35% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
76% 79% 79% 
i-Ready 12% 59% 53% 
mCLASS 34% 33% 21% 
mCLASS Lectura 41% 41% 43% 
All screening assessments 32% 35% 26% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 172===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 168 – 
Table B59. Percentage of Grade 1 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
25th National Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 22% 29% 25% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 18% 14% 15% 
FastBridge earlyReading 37% 37% 32% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 45% 38% 36% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
77% 79% 81% 
i-Ready 33% 28% 26% 
mCLASS 22% 22% 23% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 27% 25% 25% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B60. Percentage of Grade 1 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
Massachusetts 25th Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 17% 17% 16% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 21% 20% 19% 
FastBridge earlyReading 11% 16% 18% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 23% 26% 26% 
===PAGE 173===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 169 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 23% 23% 23% 
mCLASS 26% 29% 28% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 24% 25% 24% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B61. Percentage of Grade 1 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
DIBELS Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 24% 22% 12% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 30% 25% 13% 
FastBridge earlyReading 17% 16% 13% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 34% 32% 19% 
Star Early Literacy 
Spanish 
N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 32% 26% 16% 
mCLASS 34% 33% 21% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 32% 29% 18% 
===PAGE 174===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 170 – 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B62. Percentage of Grade 1 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
MCAS Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 14% 14% 15% 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A N/A 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 23% 25% 31% 
Star Early Literacy Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 10% 9% 7% 
mCLASS 8% 10% 10% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 18% 18% 19% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. NSD means that there was not sufficient data to 
report statistics. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B63. Percentage of Grade 2 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, Publisher-
Provided Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 23% 22% 21% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 26% 22% 16% 
===PAGE 175===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 171 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
FastBridge aReading 21% 19% 14% 
MAP Reading Fluency 27% 29% 30% 
Star Reading 38% 26% 23% 
Star Reading Spanish 22% 11% 22% 
i-Ready 27% 50% 55% 
mCLASS 36% 32% 26% 
mCLASS Lectura 33% 24% 18% 
All screening assessments 32% 31% 28% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B64. Percentage of Grade 2 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
25th National Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 28% 23% 24% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 15% 14% 15% 
FastBridge aReading 32% 29% 24% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 39% 26% 23% 
Star Reading Spanish 22% 11% 22% 
i-Ready 28% 28% 26% 
mCLASS 24% 23% 23% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 25% 23% 22% 
===PAGE 176===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 172 – 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B65. Percentage of Grade 2 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
Massachusetts 25th Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 18% 19% 19% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 20% 18% 19% 
FastBridge aReading 11% 13% 10% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 24% 23% 26% 
Star Reading Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 25% 25% 24% 
mCLASS 30% 27% 28% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 25% 24% 25% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B66. Percentage of Grade 2 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, DIBELS 
Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 24% 16% 17% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 26% 22% 16% 
FastBridge aReading 15% 17% 8% 
===PAGE 177===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 173 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 29% 27% 21% 
Star Reading Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 32% 29% 23% 
mCLASS 36% 32% 26% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 31% 28% 22% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B67. Percentage of Grade 2 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, MCAS 
Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 5% 5% 5% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 12% 13% 12% 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 14% 13% 15% 
Star Reading Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 14% 15% 16% 
mCLASS 13% 15% 14% 
mCLASS Lectura N/A N/A N/A 
All screening assessments 16% 17% 17% 
===PAGE 178===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 174 – 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. NSD means that there was not sufficient data 
to report statistics. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B68. Percentage of Grade 3 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
Publisher-Provided Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 14% 13% 12% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 22% 24% 20% 
FastBridge aReading 12% 12% 12% 
MAP Reading Fluency 39% 42% 45% 
Star Reading 39% 30% 32% 
Star Reading Spanish 76% 72% 74% 
i-Ready 36% 41% 62% 
mCLASS 31% 32% 27% 
All screening assessments 31% 31% 32% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B69. Percentage of Grade 3 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
25th National Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 15% 14% 14% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 18% 17% 17% 
FastBridge aReading 21% 22% 19% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 179===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 175 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Star Reading 40% 31% 32% 
Star Reading Spanish 77% 74% 75% 
i-Ready 31% 29% 29% 
mCLASS 26% 24% 24% 
All screening assessments 28% 25% 26% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B70. Percentage of Grade 3 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
Massachusetts 25th Percentile 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 17% 15% 17% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 20% 20% 21% 
FastBridge aReading 15% 18% 16% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 26% 25% 25% 
Star Reading Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 25% 24% 24% 
mCLASS 28% 27% 28% 
All screening assessments 25% 24% 25% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 180===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 176 – 
Table B71. Percentage of Grade 3 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
DIBELS Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 21% 21% 18% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 22% 24% 20% 
FastBridge aReading 19% 21% 15% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 28% 28% 24% 
Star Reading Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 27% 29% 24% 
mCLASS 31% 32% 27% 
All screening assessments 27% 29% 24% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B72. Percentage of Grade 3 Students Significantly Below Benchmark, 
MCAS Benchmark 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 4% 5% 5% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 15% 15% 13% 
FastBridge aReading 11% 12% 13% 
MAP Reading Fluency N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 18% 19% 19% 
Star Reading Spanish N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 181===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 177 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
i-Ready 19% 17% 18% 
mCLASS 19% 18% 18% 
All screening assessments 18% 17% 17% 
Note. N/A means that the statistic was not calculated for the relevant assessment, test period, 
and grade level because the risk performance level did not have a national percentile or the 
assessment was a Spanish-language assessment. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Equipercentile Linking Procedure 
The equipercentile linking procedure that was used to link literacy screening assessment scale 
scores to MCAS ELA scale scores involved the following three steps. A similar process was used 
to link screening assessment scale scores to combined DIBELS/mCLASS data. 
Linking Steps: 
1. Valid MCAS Grade 3 ELA scale scores were collected for students in the concordance 
sample. 
2. The composite score distribution was obtained for each literacy screening assessment 
concordance sample, and the cumulative proportion of students who fell at or below 
each benchmark cut score of interest was estimated. We conducted loglinear pre-
smoothing on the distributions before linking. 
3. The point was found on the MCAS Grade 3 ELA scale at which the estimated proportion 
of students equaled the estimated proportion of students who scored at or below the 
benchmark cut score of interest obtained in the previous step. 
To define percentile ranks in the concordance samples, let KX represent the scale score range on 
Form X of a test (i.e., the literacy screening assessment). Define 𝐹(𝑥) as the continuous density 
function of the probability that scale score X lies within the range P(𝑎 ≤ X ≤ 𝑏). Define the 
cumulative distribution function as the proportion of examinees earning a scale score at or below 
𝑥; that is, 𝐹(𝑥) = ∫ 𝑓(𝑡)𝑑𝑡
 
    , for 𝑀𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑚𝑢𝑚 𝑆𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 ≤ 𝑥 ≤ 𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑖𝑚𝑢𝑚 𝑆𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒. 
Define 𝑥* as a scale score that is closest to 𝑥 such that 𝑥∗ − 0.5(𝑥 − 𝑎) ≤ 𝑥 < 𝑥∗ + 0.5(𝑏 − 𝑥) 
where 𝑎 and 𝑏 are the scale scores that are immediately below and above 𝑥, respectively.  
===PAGE 182===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 178 – 
For example, in a case where consecutive scale scores are 98, 100, and 102, if 𝑥 = 99 then  
𝑥* = 98 and if 𝑥 = 100.99 then 𝑥* = 100. The percentile rank function for Form X can be written 
as 
𝑃(𝑥) = 100  𝐹(𝑎) +  
   
     [𝐹(𝑥) − 𝐹(𝑎)]    (1) 
In equipercentile equating, the interest is in finding a score on Form Y (e.g., MCAS Grade 3 ELA) 
that has the same percentile rank as Form X. To do this, we find the inverse of the percentile 
rank function for Form Y, 𝑄  , to find the equipercentile equivalent of score 𝑥 on Form X. 𝑄   
can be defined as 
𝑄  [𝑃(𝑥)] =
 ( )
      (    
∗ )
    
∗         
∗   +  𝑦 
∗ −
  
∗  (    
∗ )
     (2) 
where 𝑦 
∗  is the lowest scale score with a cumulative percent that is greater than 𝑃(𝑥), and 
𝑦   
∗  is the scale score that is immediately below 𝑦 
∗ . Equations 1 and 2 were used to produce 
the equipercentile linking results shown in Table B73 and earlier results. 
MCAS Grade 3 Linked Values 
Table B73. Number of Districts, Schools, and Students in Benchmark Linking Analysis 
Early literacy  
screening assessment 
Number of 
districts Number of schools Number of  
grade 3 students 
Acadience Reading 3 7 471 
DIBELS 8th Edition 38 99 6,435 
mCLASS 44 188 11,544 
FastBridge aReading 5 15 609 
i-Ready Diagnostic 29 56 3,976 
Star Early Literacy 24 76 982 
Star Reading 24 85 5,378 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 183===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 179 – 
Table B74. Screening Assessment Grade 3 BOY and EOY Benchmark Cut Scores Linked 
to MCAS Grade 3 ELA Scale Scores and Performance Levels Using Equipercentile 
Linking 
Early 
literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Screening 
assessment 
cut score. 
BOY 
Screening 
assessment 
cut score  
EOY 
Benchmark 
MCAS 
scale 
score  
BOY 
MCAS 
scale 
score  
EOY 
MCAS 
performance 
level  
BOY 
MCAS 
performance 
level  
EOY 
Acadience 
Reading 
180 280 Below 
benchmark 
484 481 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition 
314 424 Below 
benchmark 
475 476 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
mCLASS 314 424 Below 
benchmark 
479 477 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
FastBridge 
aReading 
468 483 Some risk 472 472 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
i-Ready 474 545 Some risk 484 499 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
Star Early 
Literacy 
909 943 On watch 486 484 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
Star 
Reading 
909 943 On watch 486 478 Partially 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 184===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 180 – 
Appendix C. Screening Assessment Overview and Student 
Performance 
Table C1 provides the number of students by year and assessment. 
Table C1. Number of Students by Year and Assessment 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Number 
in 
2021/22 
% in 
2021/22 
Number 
in 
2022/23 
% in 
2022/23 
Number 
in 
2023/24 
% in 
2023/24 
Number 
in 
2022/23 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
% in 
2022/23 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
Number 
in 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
% in 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
Acadience 
Reading 
0 0% 1,591 2% 3,224 2% 1,591 2% 3,224 3% 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition 
8,362 30% 17,533 26% 30,152 21% 17,533 27% 30,152 24% 
mCLASS 3,359 12% 13,882 21% 51,006 35% 13,881 21% 51,002 40% 
mCLASS 
Lectura 
0 0% 0 0% 186 <1% 0 0% 0 0% 
EarlyBird 691 2% 1,279 2% 1,796 1% 0 0% 0 0% 
FastBridge 
aReading 
578 2% 217 <1% 1,454 1% 217 <1% 1,454 1% 
===PAGE 185===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 181 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Number 
in 
2021/22 
% in 
2021/22 
Number 
in 
2022/23 
% in 
2022/23 
Number 
in 
2023/24 
% in 
2023/24 
Number 
in 
2022/23 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
% in 
2022/23 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
Number 
in 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
% in 
2023/24 
(25th 
percentile 
metric) 
FastBridge 
earlyReading 
258 <1% 406 <1% 1,994 1% 406 <1% 1,994 2% 
i-Ready 6,627 24% 12,622 19% 16,397 11% 12,622 19% 16,397 13% 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
164 <1% 0 0% 14,021 10% 0 0% 0 0% 
Star Early 
Literacy 
5,763 20% 9,638 14% 11,030 8% 9,638 15% 11,030 9% 
Star Early 
Literacy 
Spanish 
906 3% 0 0% 1,502 1% 0 0% 1,502 1% 
Star Reading 1,483 5% 9,379 14% 10,282 7% 9,379 14% 10,282 8% 
Star Reading 
Spanish 
0 0% 0 0% 823 <1% 0 0% 823 1% 
Total 28,191 100% 66,547 100% 143,867 100% 65,267 100% 127,860 100% 
Note. Excludes screening assessments with no data or insufficient data for reporting for 2023/24. EarlyBird includes only data for 
grade K. FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy (English and Spanish) include only grades K and 1. FastBridge aReading and 
Star Reading (English and Spanish) include only grades 2 and 3. Students may be included in multiple rows for the same school year 
if they took multiple assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 186===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 182 – 
Tables C2 and C3 provide the demographic breakdowns for the early literacy screening 
assessment sample (for 2023/24) by screening assessment. 
Table C2. Comparison of Student Demographics of Early Literacy Screening 
Assessment Sample to Those of the State (by Early Literacy Screening Assessment) 
Grade level/ 
demographic 
Acadienc
e Reading 
DIBELS 
8th 
Edition 
mCLASS mCLASS 
Lectura EarlyBird FastBridge 
aReading State 
Kindergarten 29% 27% 25% 42% 100% 0% 24% 
Grade 1 28% 28% 25% 22% 0% 0% 25% 
Grade 2 28% 23% 26% 20% 0% 52% 26% 
Grade 3 15% 22% 25% 16% 0% 48% 25% 
Low income 36% 39% 55% 44% 33% 43% 43% 
Female 48% 49% 49% 55% 49% 49% 49% 
Male 52% 51% 51% 45% 51% 51% 51% 
Nonbinary Sup data <1% <1% 0% Sup data 0% <1% 
English learner 7% 17% 26% 25% 10% 5% 19% 
Students receiving 
special education 
services 
19% 20% 20% 15% 15% 22% 17% 
White 91% 86% 68% 76% 77% 87% 77% 
Hispanic/Latino 21% 26% 32% 62% 12% 10% 26% 
Black 8% 10% 26% 18% 17% 13% 17% 
Asian 4% 8% 10% 8% 15% 6% 10% 
American 
Indian/Alaska 
Native 
<1% 5% 3% 5% 3% 2% 4% 
Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
<1% <1% 1% 2% Sup data Sup data <1% 
===PAGE 187===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 183 – 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). “Sup data” means that data for student groups with 
fewer than 10 students are not shown in order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Table C3. Comparison of Student Demographics of Early Literacy Screening 
Assessment Sample to Those of the State (by Early Literacy Screening Assessment)—
Continued 
Grade level/ 
demographic 
FastBridge 
early-
Reading 
i-Ready 
MAP 
Reading 
Fluency 
Star 
Early 
Literacy 
Star 
Early 
Literacy 
Spanish 
Star 
Reading 
Star 
Reading 
Spanish 
State 
Kindergarten 48% 22% 25% 49% 47% 0% 0% 24% 
Grade 1 52% 24% 26% 51% 53% 0% 0% 25% 
Grade 2 0% 28% 26% 0% 0% 46% 14% 26% 
Grade 3 0% 25% 24% 0% 0% 54% 86% 25% 
Low income 52% 46% 69% 53% 86% 49% 84% 43% 
Female 49% 48% 48% 49% 51% 49% 50% 49% 
Male 51% 52% 52% 51% 49% 51% 50% 51% 
Nonbinary Sup data Sup data Sup data Sup data 0% Sup data 0% <1% 
English learner 7% 20% 41% 30% 92% 25% 90% 19% 
Students 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
18% 21% 21% 16% 10% 20% 13% 17% 
White 85% 86% 53% 71% 27% 77% 40% 77% 
Hispanic/Latin
o 
14% 30% 44% 36% 96% 31% 97% 26% 
Black 18% 13% 42% 17% 15% 15% 13% 17% 
Asian 5% 5% 9% 6% 1% 5% 1% 10% 
===PAGE 188===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 184 – 
Grade level/ 
demographic 
FastBridge 
early-
Reading 
i-Ready 
MAP 
Reading 
Fluency 
Star 
Early 
Literacy 
Star 
Early 
Literacy 
Spanish 
Star 
Reading 
Star 
Reading 
Spanish 
State 
American 
Indian/Alaska 
Native 
2% 3% 3% 14% 65% 10% 59% 4% 
Native 
Hawaiian/Paci
fic Islander 
<1% <1% 1% <1% <1% <1% Sup data <1% 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). “Sup data” means that data for student groups with 
fewer than 10 students are not shown in order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Table C4 compares the sample of grade 3 students with the state’s grade 3 population by 
comparing the percentage of students meeting or exceeding expectations on the 
Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS; for each screening assessment) to 
the state average. 
Table C4. Comparison of Percentage of Students Meeting/Exceeding Expectations on 
MCAS 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
Sample (% meeting/ 
exceeding expectations) 
State (% meeting/ 
exceeding expectations) 
All screening assessments 37% 42% 
Acadience Reading 59% 42% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 42% 42% 
mCLASS 37% 42% 
mCLASS Lectura 35% 42% 
FastBridge aReading 46% 42% 
i-Ready 36% 42% 
MAP Reading Fluency 32% 42% 
Star Reading 35% 42% 
===PAGE 189===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 185 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
Sample (% meeting/ 
exceeding expectations) 
State (% meeting/ 
exceeding expectations) 
Star Reading Spanish 9% 42% 
Note. No grade 3 students took EarlyBird. Grade 3 students who took FastBridge earlyReading, 
Star Early Literacy, or Star Early Literacy Spanish were not included in the analysis. Source: Early 
literacy screening assessment data and state-provided MCAS data. 
Table C5 provides the number of observations with available benchmarks by time period—
beginning of year (BOY), middle of year (MOY), or end of year (EOY)— for each of the early 
literacy screening assessments. 
Table C5. Number of Observations With Benchmarks by Time Period and Screening 
Assessment 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
BOY  
(N, %) 
MOY  
(N, %) 
EOY  
(N, %) Total 
Acadience Reading 3,120 (35%) 2,866 (32%) 2,852 (32%) 8,838 
DIBELS 8th Edition 26,532 (33%) 27,074 (34%) 26,308 (33%) 79,914 
mCLASS 47,652 (33%) 48,482 (34%) 47,815 (33%) 143,949 
mCLASS Lectura 181 (37%) 178 (36%) 134 (27%) 493 
EarlyBird 1,700 (40%) 1,545 (37%) 969 (23%) 4,214 
FastBridge aReading 1,357 (33%) 1,340 (33%) 1,356 (33%) 4,053 
FastBridge earlyReading 1,629 (30%) 1,919 (35%) 1,904 (35%) 5,452 
i-Ready 14,847 (33%) 14,971 (33%) 15,750 (35%) 45,568 
MAP Reading Fluency 10,909 (34%) 10,756 (33%) 10,749 (33%) 32,414 
Star Early Literacy 9,700 (33%) 9,938 (34%) 9,699 (33%) 29,337 
Star Early Literacy Spanish 1,129 (32%) 1,122 (31%) 1,313 (37%) 3,564 
Star Reading 9,218 (32%) 9,641 (34%) 9,821 (34%) 28,680 
Star Reading Spanish 544 (31%) 548 (32%) 636 (37%) 1,728 
Total 128,518 
(33%) 
130,380 
(34%) 
129,306 
(33%) 
388,204 
===PAGE 190===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 186 – 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table C6 provides the number of benchmark scores by time period, grade level, and 
demographic characteristic. 
Table C6. Number of Benchmark Scores by Time Period, Grade Level, and 
Demographic Characteristics 
Grade level/demographic BOY  
(N, %) 
MOY  
(N, %) 
EOY  
(N, %) Total 
Kindergarten 31,448 (32%) 32,532 (33%) 34,551 (35%) 98,531 
Grade 1 34,328 (34%) 34,165 (34%) 33,474 (33%) 101,967 
Grade 2 31,482 (33%) 31,990 (34%) 31,466 (33%) 94,938 
Grade 3 31,263 (34%) 31,693 (34%) 29,815 (32%) 92,771 
Low income 61,874 (33%) 64,131 (34%) 64,222 (34%) 190,227 
Female 62,256 (33%) 63,381 (34%) 62,833 (33%) 188,470 
Male 64,833 (33%) 65,689 (34%) 65,125 (33%) 195,647 
Nonbinary 42 (37%) 35 (30%) 38 (33%) 115 
English learner 28,686 (32%) 30,370 (33%) 31,642 (35%) 90,698 
Students receiving special 
education services 
24,850 (33%) 25,001 (34%) 24,702 (33%) 74,553 
White 95,009 (33%) 96,078 (34%) 94,940 (33%) 286,027 
Hispanic/Latino 38,651 (33%) 39,787 (34%) 40,024 (34%) 118,462 
Black 24,548 (33%) 25,026 (34%) 25,096 (34%) 74,670 
Asian 10,342 (34%) 10,293 (34%) 9,950 (33%) 30,585 
American Indian/Alaska Native 6,574 (32%) 7,054 (34%) 7,200 (35%) 20,828 
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 971 (33%) 982 (34%) 960 (33%) 2,913 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). A cell may reference the same student more than once 
if they took multiple screening assessments within the school year. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 191===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 187 – 
Table C7 provides the demographic breakdown of students with one benchmark available 
versus students with two benchmarks available versus students with three benchmarks 
available.  
Table C7. Comparison of Demographics of Students With One Available Benchmark 
Versus Two Available Benchmarks Versus Three Available Benchmarks 
Grade level/demographic 
One 
benchmark 
available 
Two 
benchmarks 
available  
Three 
benchmarks 
available  
State  
Kindergarten 8% 23% 69% 24% 
Grade 1 8% 11% 81% 25% 
Grade 2 8% 12% 81% 26% 
Grade 3 7% 13% 79% 25% 
Low income 66% 60% 48% 43% 
Female 46% 48% 49% 49% 
Male 54% 52% 51% 51% 
Nonbinary Sup data Sup data <1% <1% 
English learner 43% 34% 22% 19% 
Students receiving special 
education services 
21% 21% 19% 17% 
White 64% 69% 76% 77% 
Hispanic/Latino 45% 40% 29% 26% 
Black 27% 24% 19% 17% 
Asian 7% 8% 8% 10% 
American Indian/Alaska Native 9% 7% 5% 4% 
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander <1% <1% <1% <1% 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). Student records can indicate more than one. “Sup data” 
means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students are not shown in order to 
protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June 
SIMS collection data.  
===PAGE 192===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 188 – 
Table C8 provides the percentage of students at significant risk by time period and for each assessment, using the benchmark and 
25th percentile metrics.  
Table C8. Assessment Performance by Time Period and Assessment 
Early 
literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Benchmark 
metric BOY 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
BOY  
Benchmark 
metric  
MOY 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
MOY 
Benchmark 
metric  
EOY 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
EOY 
Benchmark 
metric  
total 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
total 
Acadience 
Reading 
22% 23% 24% 27% 18% 25% 21% 25% 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition 
29% 16% 26% 17% 18% 18% 24% 17% 
mCLASS 35% 23% 34% 25% 26% 26% 32% 25% 
mCLASS 
Lectura 
28% N/A 23% N/A 27% N/A 26% N/A 
EarlyBird 38% N/A 26% N/A 23% N/A 30% N/A 
FastBridge 
aReading 
17% 27% 17% 27% 15% 24% 17% 26% 
FastBridge 
earlyReadi
ng 
16% 30% 24% 40% 20% 34% 20% 35% 
i-Ready 22% 31% 49% 29% 56% 29% 43% 30% 
===PAGE 193===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 189 – 
Early 
literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Benchmark 
metric BOY 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
BOY  
Benchmark 
metric  
MOY 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
MOY 
Benchmark 
metric  
EOY 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
EOY 
Benchmark 
metric  
total 
25th 
percentile 
metric  
total 
MAP 
Reading 
Fluency 
34% N/A 32% N/A 30% N/A 32% N/A 
Star Early 
Literacy 
42% 43% 32% 33% 31% 32% 35% 36% 
Star Early 
Literacy 
Spanish 
67% 68% 68% 69% 67% 68% 67% 68% 
Star 
Reading 
40% 40% 31% 32% 31% 32% 34% 35% 
Star 
Reading 
Spanish 
72% 74% 74% 75% 72% 73% 72% 74% 
Total 33% 26% 33% 26% 30% 26% 32% 26% 
Note. The EarlyBird, mCLASS Lectura, and MAP Reading Fluency data did not contain percentiles that could be used for the 
25th percentile or below analysis. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 194===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 190 – 
Tables C9–C12 provide the percentage of students significantly below benchmark by grade 
level, time period, and assessment.  
Table C9. Assessment Performance by Time Period and Assessment for Kindergarten 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 24% 20% 11% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 38% 25% 13% 
mCLASS 40% 35% 24% 
mCLASS Lectura 37% 26% 17% 
EarlyBird 58% 39% 26% 
FastBridge earlyReading 10% 17% 17% 
i-Ready 3% 37% 46% 
MAP Reading Fluency 32% 26% 17% 
Star Early Literacy 42% 24% 22% 
Star Early Literacy Spanish 55% 50% 61% 
Total 36% 30% 22% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table C10. Assessment Performance by Time Period and Assessment for Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 22% 29% 23% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 30% 25% 13% 
mCLASS 34% 33% 21% 
mCLASS Lectura 41% 41% 43% 
FastBridge earlyReading 19% 24% 20% 
===PAGE 195===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 191 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
i-Ready 12% 59% 53% 
MAP Reading Fluency 34% 28% 20% 
Star Early Literacy 44% 37% 35% 
Star Early Literacy Spanish 76% 79% 79% 
Total 32% 35% 26% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table C11. Assessment Performance by Time Period and Assessment for Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 23% 22% 21% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 26% 22% 16% 
mCLASS 36% 32% 26% 
mCLASS Lectura 33% 24% 18% 
FastBridge aReading 21% 19% 14% 
i-Ready 27% 50% 55% 
MAP Reading Fluency 27% 29% 30% 
Star Reading 38% 26% 23% 
Star Reading Spanish 22% 11% 22% 
Total 32% 31% 28% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data.  
===PAGE 196===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 192 – 
Table C12. Assessment Performance by Time Period and Assessment for Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 14% 13% 12% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 22% 24% 20% 
mCLASS 31% 32% 27% 
mCLASS Lectura 16% 20% 20% 
FastBridge aReading 12% 12% 12% 
i-Ready 36% 41% 62% 
MAP Reading Fluency 39% 42% 45% 
Star Reading 39% 30% 32% 
Star Reading Spanish 76% 72% 74% 
Total 31% 31% 32% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 197===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 193 – 
Table C13 provides the percentage of students at significant risk (when using the 25th percentile or below metric) and the relative 
risk of being at significant risk at each time period and by student group. 
Table C13. Percentage of Students Significantly At Risk and At Relative Risk of Being At Significant Risk At BOY, MOY, 
and EOY by Student Group (Using the 25th Percentile or Below Metric) 
Demographic 
At 
significant 
risk at  
BOY  
At 
significant 
risk at  
MOY 
At 
significant 
risk at  
EOY 
Change 
from BOY 
to EOY 
Relative 
risk at  
BOY 
Relative 
risk at  
MOY 
Relative 
risk at  
EOY 
Low income 40% 37% 37% –3% 2.71 2.96 2.80 
Non–low income 15% 13% 13% –2%    
Female 25% 23% 23% –2% 0.94 0.94 0.93 
Male 27% 25% 25% –2%    
Nonbinary Sup data Sup data Sup data Sup data NC NC NC 
English learner  54% 51% 48% –6% 2.87 2.95 2.70 
Non–English learner 19% 17% 18% –1%    
Students receiving special 
education services 
49% 48% 50% 1% 2.36 2.66 2.77 
Students not receiving 
special education services 
21% 18% 18% –3%    
White 24% 22% 22% –2% 0.74 0.70 0.71 
===PAGE 198===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 194 – 
Demographic 
At 
significant 
risk at  
BOY  
At 
significant 
risk at  
MOY 
At 
significant 
risk at  
EOY 
Change 
from BOY 
to EOY 
Relative 
risk at  
BOY 
Relative 
risk at  
MOY 
Relative 
risk at  
EOY 
Hispanic/Latino 43% 41% 40% –4% 2.25 2.32 2.27 
Black 33% 32% 32% –1% 1.31 1.41 1.41 
Asian 12% 12% 12% –1% 0.46 0.49 0.47 
American Indian/Alaska 
Native 
54% 49% 49% –5% 2.19 2.15 2.19 
Native Hawaiian/ 
Pacific Islander 
36% 34% 35% –1% NC NC NC 
Total 26% 24% 24% –2% N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic and multiple race/ethnicity 
categories). Risk ratio indicates the likelihood of a student group ever being classified as at risk compared with students not in that 
group (e.g., students from LI families were 2.71 times more likely than students who were from NLI families to be classified as at 
significant risk at BOY). Includes only students with three scores. “Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 
10 students are not shown in order to protect student privacy. NC means that the percentage was not computed because the group 
made up 5 percent or less of the sample. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection 
data. 
===PAGE 199===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 195 – 
Table C14 provides the percentage of students at significant risk two or more times (when using 
the 25th percentile or below metric), by student group. 
Table C14. Relative Risk of Being Identified as At Significant Risk Multiple Times by 
Student Group 
Demographic 
25th percentile or below  
two or more times  
(%) 
Relative risk of 25th 
percentile or  
below two or more times  
(N) 
Low income 38% 2.9 
Non–low income 13% N/A 
Female 24% 1.0 
Male 25% N/A 
English learner 51% 3.0 
Non-English learner 17% N/A 
Students receiving special 
education services 
49% 2.6 
Students not receiving special 
education services 
19% N/A 
White 22% 0.7 
Non-White 32% N/A 
Hispanic/Latino 41% 2.3 
Non-Hispanic/Latino 18% N/A 
Black 32% 1.4 
Non-Black 23% N/A 
Asian 12% 0.5 
Non-Asian 26% N/A 
American Indian/Alaska 
Native 
50% 2.2 
===PAGE 200===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 196 – 
Demographic 
25th percentile or below  
two or more times  
(%) 
Relative risk of 25th 
percentile or  
below two or more times  
(N) 
Non-American Indian/Alaska 
Native 
23% N/A 
Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
35% NC 
Non-Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
25% N/A 
Total 25% N/A 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). NC means that the percentage was not computed 
because the group made up 5 percent or less of the sample. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data.  
Table C15 provides the percentage of students at significant risk two or more times (when using 
the benchmark level and 25th percentile or below metrics), by assessment. 
Table C15. Benchmark Performance by Screening Assessment 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
Significantly below 
benchmark  
two or more times 
25th percentile or below  
two or more times 
Acadience Reading 21% 25% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 22% 15% 
mCLASS 31% 24% 
mCLASS Lectura 23% N/A 
EarlyBird 22% N/A 
FastBridge aReading 15% 25% 
FastBridge earlyReading 19% 33% 
i-Ready 43% 27% 
MAP Reading Fluency 27% N/A 
===PAGE 201===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 197 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
Significantly below 
benchmark  
two or more times 
25th percentile or below  
two or more times 
Star Early Literacy 31% 32% 
Star Early Literacy Spanish 65% 67% 
Star Reading 32% 33% 
Star Reading Spanish 70% 71% 
Total 30% 25% 
Note. The EarlyBird, mCLASS Lectura, and MAP Reading Fluency data did not contain percentiles 
that could be used for the 25th percentile or below analysis. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data.  
Table C16 shows the number of students across overlapping student groups.  
Table C16. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size 
Demographic Number LI EL 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
LI and EL 
LI and 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
Hispanic and 
White 
26,783 20,447 12,671 5,533 10,687 4,433 
Hispanic and Black 5,164 4,293 2,073 1,090 1,865 953 
Hispanic and Asian 280 153 78 34 52 24 
Hispanic and 
American 
Indian/Alaska 
Native 
4,524 3,823 3,751 543 3,225 450 
Hispanic and 
Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
338 286 174 64 148 56 
===PAGE 202===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 198 – 
Demographic Number LI EL 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
LI and EL 
LI and 
receiving 
special 
education 
services 
Hispanic and Two 
or More Races  
3,657 2,832 1,555 779 1,353 646 
Not Hispanic and 
White 
62,123 17,244 3,343 12,154 2,432 4,684 
Not Hispanic and 
Black 
14,562 10,639 4,020 3,169 3,343 2,342 
Not Hispanic and 
Asian 
7,652 2,581 2,891 887 1,443 352 
Not Hispanic and 
American 
Indian/Alaska 
Native 
326 222 144 56 120 43 
Not Hispanic and 
Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
130 80 49 33 39 26 
Not Hispanic and 
Two or More 
Races  
6,075 2,742 342 1,215 226 728 
Note. Each racial/ethnic grouping contains students who belong only to the two identified 
groups (e.g., “Hispanic and White” refers to students who were identified only as Hispanic and 
White according to their SIMS collection data; “Not Hispanic and White” refers to students who 
were identified as White but not Hispanic according to their SIMS data). Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 203===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 199 – 
Tables C17 and C20 show the percentages of students in the sample for each student group 
identified and the corresponding significant risk rates. 
Table C17. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size and Significant Risk Rate, 
Percentage of Sample 
Demographic MA FE Total 
Low income 25% 24% 49% 
Non–low income 26% 24% 50% 
English learner 12% 11% 23% 
Non-English learner 38% 37% 76% 
Students receiving special education services 13% 7% 19% 
Students not receiving special education 
services 
38% 42% 80% 
Low income and English learner 10% 9% 19% 
Non-low income and English learner 2% 2% 5% 
Students receiving special education services 
and English learner 
3% 1% 4% 
Students not receiving special education 
services and English learner 
9% 10% 19% 
Low income, English learner, and students 
receiving special education services 
2% 1% 3% 
Non–low income, non–English learner, and 
students not receiving special education 
services 
18% 20% 38% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 204===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 200 – 
Table C18. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size and Significant Risk Rate, 
Percentage Significantly Below Benchmark Two or More Times 
Demographic MA FE Total 
Low income 44% 43% 43% 
Non–low income 18% 16% 17% 
English learner 56% 57% 56% 
Non-English learner 23% 21% 22% 
Students receiving special education services 53% 61% 56% 
Students not receiving special education 
services 
24% 24% 24% 
Low income and English learner 60% 61% 60% 
Non-low income and English learner 39% 41% 40% 
Students receiving special education services 
and English learner 
66% 72% 68% 
Students not receiving special education 
services and English learner 
52% 55% 53% 
Low income, English learner, and students 
receiving special education services 
71% 75% 72% 
Non–low income, non–English learner, and 
students not receiving special education 
services 
10% 9% 9% 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data.  
===PAGE 205===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 201 – 
Table C19. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size and Significant Risk Rate  
(by Race/Ethnicity), Percentage of Sample 
Demographic MA FE Total 
White 38% 36% 74% 
White, LI 16% 16% 32% 
White, NLI 21% 20% 41% 
White, EL 7% 6% 13% 
White, spec ed 10% 5% 15% 
White, EL, LI 6% 5% 11% 
White, spec ed, LI 5% 3% 8% 
Hispanic 15% 15% 31% 
Hispanic, LI 12% 12% 24% 
Hispanic, NLI 3% 3% 7% 
Hispanic, EL 8% 7% 15% 
Hispanic, spec ed 4% 2% 6% 
Hispanic, EL, LI 7% 6% 13% 
Hispanic, spec ed, LI 3% 2% 5% 
Black 10% 10% 19% 
Black, LI 7% 7% 14% 
Black, NLI 3% 2% 5% 
Black, EL 3% 2% 5% 
Black, spec ed 3% 1% 4% 
Black, EL, LI 2% 2% 4% 
Black, spec ed, LI 2% 1% 3% 
Asian 4% 4% 8% 
Asian, LI 1% 1% 3% 
===PAGE 206===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 202 – 
Demographic MA FE Total 
Asian, NLI 3% 3% 5% 
Asian, EL 1% 1% 2% 
Asian, spec ed <1% <1% <1% 
Asian, EL, LI <1% <1% 1% 
Asian, spec ed, LI <1% <1% <1% 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). LI refers to students from low income backgrounds, 
NLI refers to students not from low income backgrounds, EL refers to English learner students, 
and “spec ed” refers to students receiving special education services. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Table C20. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size and Significant Risk Rate  
(by Race/Ethnicity), Percentage Significantly Below Benchmark Two or More Times 
Demographic MA FE Total 
White 29% 27% 28% 
White, LI 43% 42% 43% 
White, NLI 18% 16% 17% 
White, EL 57% 58% 58% 
White, spec ed 52% 61% 55% 
White, EL, LI 60% 61% 60% 
White, spec ed, LI 62% 68% 64% 
Hispanic 47% 46% 47% 
Hispanic, LI 52% 50% 51% 
Hispanic, NLI 31% 30% 31% 
Hispanic, EL 61% 62% 61% 
Hispanic, spec ed 65% 71% 67% 
===PAGE 207===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 203 – 
Demographic MA FE Total 
Hispanic, EL, LI 63% 63% 63% 
Hispanic, spec ed, LI 68% 73% 70% 
Black 39% 36% 38% 
Black, LI 44% 41% 43% 
Black, NLI 26% 22% 24% 
Black, EL 59% 58% 58% 
Black, spec ed 59% 66% 61% 
Black, EL, LI 62% 60% 61% 
Black, spec ed, LI 63% 68% 65% 
Asian 16% 15% 16% 
Asian, LI 28% 28% 28% 
Asian, NLI 11% 9% 10% 
Asian, EL 29% 32% 31% 
Asian, spec ed 38% 47% 41% 
Asian, EL, LI 37% 40% 39% 
Asian, spec ed, LI 53% 61% 56% 
Note. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not Hispanic 
and multiple race/ethnicity categories). LI refers to students from low income backgrounds, 
NLI refers to students not from low income backgrounds, EL refers to English learner students, 
and “spec ed” refers to students receiving special education services. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 208===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 204 – 
Tables C21 and C22 show the percentages of students in the sample for each student group 
identified and the corresponding significant risk rates (by Hispanic classification and other race).   
Table C21. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size and Significant Risk Rate  
(by Hispanic Classification and Other Race), Percentage of Sample 
Demographic MA FE Total 
HL and WH 10% 10% 20% 
HL and WH, LI 8% 8% 15% 
HL and WH, NLI 2% 2% 5% 
HL and WH, EL 5% 5% 10% 
HL and WH, spec ed 3% 1% 4% 
HL and WH, EL, LI 4% 4% 8% 
HL and WH, spec ed, LI 2% 1% 3% 
HL and BAA 2% 2% 4% 
HL and BAA, LI 2% 2% 3% 
HL and BAA, NLI <1% <1% <1% 
HL and BAA, EL <1% <1% 2% 
HL and BAA, spec ed <1% <1% <1% 
HL and BAA, EL, LI <1% <1% 1% 
HL and BAA, spec ed, LI <1% <1% <1% 
HL and AIAN 2% 2% 3% 
HL and AIAN, LI 1% 1% 3% 
HL and AIAN, NLI <1% <1% <1% 
HL and AIAN, EL 1% 1% 3% 
HL and AIAN, spec ed <1% <1% <1% 
HL and AIAN, EL, LI 1% 1% 2% 
HL and AIAN, spec ed, LI <1% <1% <1% 
===PAGE 209===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 205 – 
Demographic MA FE Total 
Not HI and BAA 6% 5% 11% 
Not HI and BAA, LI 4% 4% 8% 
Not HI and BAA, NLI 2% 1% 3% 
Not HI and BAA, EL 2% 1% 3% 
Not HI and BAA, spec ed 2% <1% 2% 
Not HI and BAA, EL, LI 1% 1% 3% 
Not HI and BAA, spec ed, LI 1% <1% 2% 
Not HL and AS 3% 3% 6% 
Not HL and AS, LI <1% <1% 2% 
Not HL and AS, NLI 2% 2% 4% 
Not HL and AS, EL 1% 1% 2% 
Not HL and AS, spec ed <1% <1% <1% 
Not HL and AS, EL, LI <1% <1% 1% 
Not HL and AS, spec ed, LI <1% <1% <1% 
Note. HL refers to Hispanic or Latino students, WH refers to White students, BAA refers to Black 
or African American students, AS refers to Asian students, and AIAN refers to American 
Indian/Alaska Native students. LI refers to students from low income backgrounds, NLI refers to 
students not from low income backgrounds, EL refers to English learner students, and “spec ed” 
refers to students receiving special education services. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data.  
===PAGE 210===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 206 – 
Table C22. Intersectional Student Group Sample Size and Significant Risk Rate  
(by Hispanic Classification and Other Race), Percentage Significantly Below Benchmark 
Two or More Times 
Demographic MA FE Total 
HL and WH 45% 45% 45% 
HL and WH, LI 50% 50% 50% 
HL and WH, NLI 30% 30% 30% 
HL and WH, EL 59% 61% 60% 
HL and WH, spec ed 64% 71% 66% 
HL and WH, EL, LI 62% 63% 62% 
HL and WH, spec ed, LI 67% 73% 69% 
HL and BAA 46% 42% 44% 
HL and BAA, LI 49% 45% 47% 
HL and BAA, NLI 32% 25% 29% 
HL and BAA, EL 63% 59% 61% 
HL and BAA, spec ed 67% 65% 66% 
HL and BAA, EL, LI 65% 60% 63% 
HL and BAA, spec ed, LI 68% 67% 68% 
HL and AIAN 61% 59% 60% 
HL and AIAN, LI 63% 61% 62% 
HL and AIAN, NLI 52% 51% 51% 
HL and AIAN, EL 67% 66% 67% 
HL and AIAN, spec ed 75% 82% 77% 
HL and AIAN, EL, LI 68% 68% 68% 
HL and AIAN, spec ed, LI 77% 83% 79% 
Not HI and BAA 39% 37% 38% 
===PAGE 211===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 207 – 
Demographic MA FE Total 
Not HI and BAA, LI 43% 41% 42% 
Not HI and BAA, NLI 27% 24% 26% 
Not HI and BAA, EL 57% 57% 57% 
Not HI and BAA, spec ed 57% 64% 60% 
Not HI and BAA, EL, LI 59% 60% 60% 
Not HI and BAA, spec ed, LI 61% 66% 63% 
Not HL and AS 16% 15% 16% 
Not HL and AS, LI 27% 26% 27% 
Not HL and AS, NLI 11% 9% 10% 
Not HL and AS, EL 29% 30% 30% 
Not HL and AS, spec ed 38% 44% 39% 
Not HL and AS, EL, LI 36% 38% 37% 
Not HL and AS, spec ed, LI 53% 57% 54% 
Note. HL refers to Hispanic or Latino students, WH refers to White students, BAA refers to Black 
or African American students, AS refers to Asian students, and AIAN refers to American 
Indian/Alaska Native students. LI refers to students from low income backgrounds, NLI refers to 
students not from low income backgrounds, EL refers to English learner students, and “spec ed” 
refers to students receiving special education services. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 212===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 208 – 
Appendix D. Student Progress 
Figure D1 shows the progression of students at the 25th percentile or below across the school 
year.  
Figure D1. Progression of Students At 25th Percentile or Below Across School Year 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Only students with scores across each time period on the same 
assessment were included in the figure. See Figure D1 in Appendix F for a full description of this 
figure. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 213===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 209 – 
Figure D2 shows the progression of students above the 40th percentile, at or below the 40th 
percentile, and at or below the 25th percentile across the school year.  
Figure D2. Progression of Students Across School Year 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times per time period if they were administered 
multiple screening assessments. Only students with scores across each time period on the same 
assessment were included in the figure. Students met expectations if they scored above the 
40th percentile on their early literacy assessment; they were below expectations if they scored 
at or below the 40th percentile but above the 25th percentile on their assessment; and they 
were significantly below expectations if they scored at or below the 25th percentile on their 
assessment. See Figure D2 in Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early 
literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 214===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 210 – 
Figure D3 shows the percentage of students who were at significant risk (according to the 25th 
percentile or below metric) at EOY of one grade level and at EOY of the subsequent grade level.  
Figure D3. Progression of Students At 25th Percentile or Below Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Figure D4 shows the percentage of students who were at significant risk (according to the 25th 
percentile or below metric) at EOY of one grade level and at EOY 1 year later and 2 years later.  
Figure D4. Progression of Students At 25th Percentile or Below Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 215===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 211 – 
Figures D5–D14 show the percentage of students who were below or significantly below 
benchmark in one grade level and in the subsequent grade level, by student group. 
Figure D5. Progression of Female and Male Students Below or Significantly Below 
Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. For figure data, see Figure D5 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 216===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 212 – 
Figure D6. Progression of Students From Low Income Backgrounds and Students Not 
From Low Income Backgrounds Below or Significantly Below Benchmark Across School 
Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. For figure data, see Figure D6 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 217===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 213 – 
Figure D7. Progression of English Learner and Non–English Learner Students Below or 
Significantly Below Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. For figure data, see Figure D7 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 218===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 214 – 
Figure D8. Progression of Students Receiving and Not Receiving Special Education 
Services Below or Significantly Below Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. For figure data, see Figure D8 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 219===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 215 – 
Figure D9. Progression of White and Non-White Students Below or Significantly Below 
Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not 
Hispanic and multiple race categories). For figure data, see Figure D9 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 220===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 216 – 
Figure D10. Progression of Hispanic/Latino and Non-Hispanic/Latino Students Below 
or Significantly Below Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not 
Hispanic and multiple race categories). For figure data, see Figure D10 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 221===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 217 – 
Figure D11. Progression of Black and Non-Black Students Below or Significantly Below 
Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not 
Hispanic and multiple race categories). For figure data, see Figure D11 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 222===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 218 – 
Figure D12. Progression of Asian and Non-Asian Students Below or Significantly Below 
Benchmark Across School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not 
Hispanic and multiple race categories). For figure data, see Figure D12 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 223===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 219 – 
Figure D13. Progression of American Indian/Alaska Native and Non–American 
Indian/Alaska Native Students Below or Significantly Below Benchmark Across School 
Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not 
Hispanic and multiple race categories). For figure data, see Figure D13 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 224===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 220 – 
Figure D14. Progression of Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander and Non–Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Students Below or Significantly Below Benchmark Across 
School Years 
 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Students may be included in more than one racial/ethnic category (Hispanic/not 
Hispanic and multiple race categories). For figure data, see Figure D14 in Appendix F. Source: 
Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 225===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 221 – 
Tables D1–D3 shows the progression of students from EOY of one grade level to BOY of the 
subsequent grade level.   
Table D1. Percentage of Students At Significant Risk At End of Kindergarten and 
Beginning of Grade 1 by Assessment 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Number 
Kindergarten 
EOY  
significantly 
below 
Grade 1  
BOY  
significantly 
below 
Kindergarten  
EOY  
25th 
percentile 
Grade 1  
BOY  
25th 
percentile 
Acadience Reading 454 5% 17% 21% 17% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 3,450 16% 27% 16% 15% 
mCLASS  2,713 22% 28% 23% 16% 
FastBridge earlyReading 102 21% 11% 40% 32% 
i-Ready 1,439 51% 11% 32% 32% 
Star Early Literacy 3,902 26% 40% 27% 42% 
Total 12,060 24% 29% 24% 26% 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table D2. Percentage of Students At Significant Risk At End of Grade 1 and Beginning 
of Grade 2 by Assessment 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Number 
Grade 1  
EOY  
significantly 
below 
Grade 2  
BOY  
significantly 
below 
Grade 1  
EOY  
25th 
percentile 
Grade 2  
BOY  
25th 
percentile 
Acadience Reading 459 18% 15% 20% 19% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 2,756 14% 25% 16% 14% 
mCLASS  2,824 17% 26% 19% 16% 
i-Ready 1,718 56% 29% 30% 29% 
Total 7,757 25% 26% 21% 18% 
===PAGE 226===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 222 – 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table D3. Percentage of Students At Significant Risk At End of Grade 2 and Beginning 
of Grade 3 by Assessment 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Number 
Grade 2  
EOY  
significantly 
below 
Grade 3  
BOY  
significantly 
below 
Grade 2  
EOY  
25th 
percentile 
Grade 3  
BOY  
25th 
percentile 
Acadience Reading 408 14% 15% 19% 15% 
DIBELS 8th Edition 2,531 19% 19% 18% 16% 
mCLASS  2,656 20% 20% 18% 16% 
i-Ready 1,796 58% 35% 28% 32% 
Star Reading 3,785 28% 34% 28% 35% 
Total 11,176 28% 27% 23% 25% 
Note. Some students may appear multiple times if they were administered multiple screening 
assessments. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 227===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 223 – 
Appendix E. School Analysis Details 
Multilevel Logistic Regression Model Description 
In this section, we describe the results of a statistical model that incorporated several student- 
and school-level variables to predict students’ likelihood of being significantly below benchmark 
multiple times during the 2023/24 school year considering those variables. 
Students are clustered within schools, which may vary in their effects on student performance. 
To account for this fact, a multilevel logistic regression model, in which students are nested 
within schools was used to examine the impact of student- and school-level factors on the risk 
of being identified as significantly below benchmark more than once during the year. The 
model is shown below.  
logit  𝜋     =  𝛽   +  𝛽 𝑋    +  𝛽 𝑋    + ⋯   +  𝛽 𝑋     +  𝛾    
This equation represents a two-level multilevel logistic regression model in which 
• logit  𝜋   is the natural logarithm of the odds of being significantly below the 
benchmark two or more times for student i in school j; 
• 𝛽 is the intercept, representing the log odds of being at risk when all predictor 
variables and random effects are zero; 
• 𝛽 , β2, ..., βp are the fixed effect coefficients of predictor variables Xij1, Xij2, ..., Xijp; and 
• 𝛾   are school-specific effects. 
The model controls for student- and school-level predictor variables associated with students’ 
likelihood of being significantly below benchmark more than once during the school year. Note 
that multiple models were evaluated before the final model was selected. For example, a 
variable examining the type of English learner program students attended was included in the 
model and found to not be statistically significant, as were variables examining the amount of 
student mobility and teacher experience within schools. These variables were therefore 
removed from the final model. Student-level variables retained in the final model include 
• gender,  
• race/ethnicity,   
• grade-level, 
• screening assessment, 
• low income status,   
• English learner status,  
===PAGE 228===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 224 – 
• indicator of whether the student received special education services, and   
• early childhood program experience (ECP). 
School-level variables include 
• percentage of students from low income backgrounds,   
• percentage of EL students, 
• student mobility rate (i.e., student stability), and 
• student attendance rate. 
The final model results are shown in Table E1.   
Table E1. Multilevel Logistic Regression Results That Predict the Likelihood of Being 
Significantly Below Benchmark More Than Once During the 2023/24 School Year 
Term Estimate SE Statistic p.value Odds odd_ll odd_ul 
(Intercept) –2.08 0.12 –16.81 0.00 0.12 0.10 0.16 
Grade 1 –0.01 0.03 –0.31 0.75 0.99 0.93 1.05 
Grade 2 0.10 0.03 3.54 0.00 1.11 1.05 1.17 
Kindergarten –0.10 0.03 –3.21 0.00 0.90 0.85 0.96 
Male 0.01 0.03 0.33 0.74 1.01 0.95 1.07 
Asian –0.52 0.07 –7.64 0.00 0.60 0.52 0.68 
Black 0.32 0.04 7.49 0.00 1.38 1.27 1.50 
Hispanic 0.51 0.03 15.36 0.00 1.66 1.56 1.78 
Other Race 0.05 0.06 0.84 0.40 1.05 0.93 1.19 
Formal ECP –0.19 0.02 –10.52 0.00 0.82 0.79 0.85 
Informal ECP –0.08 0.08 –1.07 0.29 0.92 0.79 1.07 
English learner 1.10 0.05 22.21 0.00 3.00 2.72 3.30 
Has IEP 2.25 0.04 61.33 0.00 9.49 8.83 10.20 
DIBELS 8th Edition –0.08 0.13 –0.61 0.54 0.93 0.72 1.19 
FastBridge 
aReading 
–0.67 0.20 –3.34 0.00 0.51 0.34 0.76 
===PAGE 229===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 225 – 
Term Estimate SE Statistic p.value Odds odd_ll odd_ul 
FastBridge 
earlyReading 
–0.31 0.18 –1.68 0.09 0.74 0.51 1.05 
i-Ready 0.99 0.14 7.32 0.00 2.70 2.07 3.52 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
–0.98 0.14 –6.88 0.00 0.38 0.29 0.50 
mCLASS –0.04 0.12 –0.30 0.76 0.96 0.76 1.23 
Star Early Literacy 0.18 0.13 1.41 0.16 1.20 0.93 1.56 
Star Reading 0.03 0.13 0.22 0.83 1.03 0.79 1.33 
Low income 0.60 0.02 30.47 0.00 1.82 1.75 1.89 
School low 
income % 
0.32 0.04 7.86 0.00 1.37 1.27 1.48 
School stability % 0.00 0.03 0.05 0.96 1.00 0.94 1.06 
School EL % 0.06 0.03 1.89 0.06 1.06 1.00 1.12 
School 
attendance % 
–0.05 0.03 –1.89 0.06 0.95 0.90 1.00 
Male:has IEP –0.35 0.04 –8.78 0.00 0.71 0.65 0.76 
Asian:has IEP –0.34 0.11 –3.25 0.00 0.71 0.58 0.87 
Black:has IEP –0.49 0.06 –8.01 0.00 0.61 0.54 0.69 
Hispanic:has IEP –0.60 0.04 –13.35 0.00 0.55 0.50 0.60 
Other Race:has 
IEP 
–0.11 0.09 –1.19 0.24 0.90 0.75 1.07 
Grade 1:English 
learner 
0.02 0.05 0.33 0.74 1.02 0.91 1.13 
Grade 2:English 
learner 
–0.05 0.06 –0.95 0.34 0.95 0.85 1.06 
Kindergarten:Engli
sh learner 
0.23 0.06 4.07 0.00 1.26 1.13 1.41 
Male:Asian –0.05 0.09 –0.53 0.59 0.95 0.80 1.14 
Male:Black –0.03 0.05 –0.60 0.55 0.97 0.87 1.08 
===PAGE 230===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 226 – 
Term Estimate SE Statistic p.value Odds odd_ll odd_ul 
Male:Hispanic –0.06 0.04 –1.53 0.13 0.94 0.87 1.02 
Male:Other Race –0.01 0.08 –0.09 0.93 0.99 0.84 1.17 
Male:English 
learner 
–0.14 0.04 –3.33 0.00 0.87 0.80 0.95 
Note. The estimate column represents the fixed effect coefficients from the linear mixed model. 
Each estimate shows the expected change in the outcome variable when each term changes by 
one unit while holding all other variables constant. For continuous terms, the estimate column 
represents a linear slope; for categorical terms, the estimate represents a mean level change in 
the outcome compared with the reference group. Source: Early literacy screening assessment 
data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
The reference group in the model is grade 3, White, female students who are not English learner 
(EL) students, are not from low income backgrounds, do not receive special education services (do 
not have an IEP), do not attend an early childhood program, are from average schools (i.e., school 
characteristics and random effects equal to 0), and took Acadience. Such students had a 
12 percent likelihood of being significantly below benchmark multiple times during the 2023/24 
school year.  
A handful of student-level predictors showed strong associations with the likelihood of being 
significantly below benchmark multiple times during the 2023/24 school year. Many student-
level attributes were positively associated, such as having Black and Hispanic ethnoracial 
backgrounds, having English learner status, receiving special education services, or coming from 
low income backgrounds, increasing the risk by 38 percent, 66 percent, 200 percent, 
849 percent, and 82 percent, respectively. Two student-level attributes, Asian students and 
those involved with formal early childhood programs, were associated with a reduced 
likelihood of risk identification, reducing the probability by 40 percent and 18 percent, 
respectively. A handful of interactions were associated with students who had an IEP and were 
English Learners. For Asian, Black, and Hispanic students who had an IEP, the risk of being 
identified two or more times decreased by 29 percent, 39 percent, and 45 percent, respectively 
(Figure E3). For English learners, those in kindergarten were 26 percent more likely to be 
identified two or more times, whereas males were about 13 percent less likely to be identified 
two or more times (Figure E2). 
There was evidence of a different likelihood of being identified more than once by the 
screening assessment the student took. Two, FastBridge aReading and Map Reading Fluency, 
were negatively associated, whereas i-Ready was positively associated when compared with 
the Acadience Reading reference group. Students who took FastBridge aReading and Map 
Reading Fluency were 49 percent and 62 percent, respectively, less likely to be identified more 
than once compared with those who took Acadience Reading. In contrast, students who took  
===PAGE 231===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 227 – 
i-Ready were 170 percent more likely to be identified more than once compared with those 
who took Acadience Reading. No other assessment showed differences compared with the 
Acadience Reading reference group, and there were no reliable estimates of interactions with 
the screening assessment that the student took (Figure E1). 
Finally, one school-level effect was identified as being associated with being significantly below 
the benchmark multiple times during the 2023/24 school year (Figure E4). Schools with a larger 
percentage of students from low income backgrounds were associated with an increased 
likelihood of students being identified. A one standard deviation increase in the percentage of 
students from low income backgrounds was associated with an increased likelihood of 
37 percent. 
Figure E1. Model Fixed Effect Results for Terms Without Interaction Effects Showing 
the Model-Implied Probabilities of a Student Being Identified Two or More Times 
During the School Year 
 
Note. For figure data, see Figure E1 in Appendix F. Source: Early literacy screening assessment 
data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 232===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 228 – 
Figure E2. Model-Implied Probabilities of Being Identified Two or More Times During 
the School Year for the Interaction Between Gender and EL Status 
 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Figure E3. Model Implied Probabilities of Being Identified Two or More Times During 
the School Year for the Interaction Between Gender, Race/ethnicity, and IEP Status 
 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 233===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 229 – 
Figure E4. Model-Implied Probabilities of Being Identified Two or More Times for 
School Low Income Percentage 
 
Note. Y-axis is in standard deviation units. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and 
October and June SIMS collection data. 
Neighborhood Segregation Analysis Description 
The impact of neighborhood segregation was explored by use of the same modeling approach 
(Table E2). Additional school-level attributes were added that represented data on 
neighborhood segregation. The neighborhood segregation attributes were collinear, meaning 
they had high correlations with one another and represented similar measures. Therefore, the 
number of characteristics in the model was reduced to estimate the model. No attributes were 
identified as being important in helping predict the likelihood of a student being identified 
more than once during the school year. The White to Minority segregation measure showed 
the largest descriptive association, an estimated odds increase of 13 percent for a one standard 
deviation increase in the segregation measure. 
===PAGE 234===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 230 – 
Table E2. Multilevel Logistic Regression Results That Predict the Likelihood of Being 
Significantly Below Benchmark More Than Once During the 2023/24 School Year With 
Neighborhood Segregation 
Term Estimate SE Statistic p.value Odds odd_ll odd_ul 
(Intercept) –2.09 0.12 –16.84 0.00 0.12 0.10 0.16 
Grade 1 –0.01 0.03 –0.36 0.72 0.99 0.93 1.05 
Grade 2 0.10 0.03 3.53 0.00 1.10 1.05 1.17 
Kindergarten –0.10 0.03 –3.23 0.00 0.90 0.85 0.96 
Male 0.01 0.03 0.34 0.74 1.01 0.95 1.07 
Asian –0.52 0.07 –7.60 0.00 0.60 0.52 0.68 
Black 0.33 0.04 7.62 0.00 1.39 1.27 1.51 
Hispanic 0.51 0.03 15.49 0.00 1.67 1.57 1.79 
Other 0.05 0.06 0.88 0.38 1.06 0.94 1.19 
Formal ECP –0.19 0.02 –10.50 0.00 0.82 0.80 0.85 
Informal ECP –0.08 0.08 –1.06 0.29 0.92 0.79 1.07 
English learner 1.10 0.05 22.20 0.00 3.00 2.72 3.30 
Has IEP 2.25 0.04 61.31 0.00 9.49 8.83 10.20 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition 
–0.07 0.13 –0.57 0.57 0.93 0.72 1.19 
FastBridge 
aReading 
–0.74 0.20 –3.65 0.00 0.47 0.32 0.71 
FastBridge 
earlyReading 
–0.38 0.19 –2.05 0.04 0.68 0.47 0.98 
i-Ready 0.98 0.14 7.27 0.00 2.67 2.05 3.49 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
–1.00 0.15 –6.82 0.00 0.37 0.28 0.49 
mCLASS –0.02 0.12 –0.13 0.89 0.98 0.77 1.26 
Star Early 
Literacy 
0.18 0.13 1.39 0.17 1.20 0.93 1.55 
===PAGE 235===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 231 – 
Term Estimate SE Statistic p.value Odds odd_ll odd_ul 
Star Reading 0.02 0.13 0.17 0.86 1.02 0.79 1.33 
Low income  0.60 0.02 30.42 0.00 1.82 1.75 1.89 
School low 
income %  
0.34 0.06 5.65 0.00 1.40 1.25 1.58 
School 
stability %  
0.00 0.03 –0.12 0.91 1.00 0.94 1.06 
School EL %  0.08 0.03 2.58 0.01 1.09 1.02 1.16 
School 
attendance %  
–0.06 0.03 –1.99 0.05 0.95 0.89 1.00 
Isolation—
White to 
Minority  
0.12 0.05 2.26 0.02 1.13 1.02 1.25 
Isolation— FRL 
to NFRL  
0.06 0.07 0.83 0.41 1.06 0.93 1.20 
Male:has IEP  –0.35 0.04 –8.78 0.00 0.71 0.65 0.76 
Asian:has IEP  –0.34 0.11 –3.24 0.00 0.71 0.58 0.87 
Black:has IEP  –0.49 0.06 –8.02 0.00 0.61 0.54 0.69 
Hispanic:has 
IEP  
–0.60 0.04 –13.34 0.00 0.55 0.50 0.60 
Other 
Race:has IEP  
–0.11 0.09 –1.20 0.23 0.90 0.75 1.07 
Grade 
1:English 
learner 
0.02 0.05 0.33 0.74 1.02 0.91 1.13 
Grade 
2:English 
learner 
–0.05 0.06 –0.96 0.34 0.95 0.85 1.06 
Kindergarten: 
English learner 
0.23 0.06 4.05 0.00 1.26 1.13 1.41 
Male:Asian –0.05 0.09 –0.54 0.59 0.95 0.80 1.14 
Male:Black –0.03 0.05 –0.60 0.55 0.97 0.87 1.08 
===PAGE 236===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 232 – 
Term Estimate SE Statistic p.value Odds odd_ll odd_ul 
Male:Hispanic –0.06 0.04 –1.53 0.13 0.94 0.86 1.02 
Male:Other 
Race 
–0.01 0.08 –0.10 0.92 0.99 0.84 1.17 
Male:English 
learner 
–0.14 0.04 –3.33 0.00 0.87 0.80 0.94 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
“Outperforming” School Selection 
We used the multilevel logistic regression results to select the top 10 schools identified by the 
model. To do these, we identified the schools with the largest negative random effects which 
would be associated with schools that had the least likelihood of having students identified two 
or more times during the 2023/24 school year after adjusting for the covariates included in the 
models.  
Regression Discontinuity Design Analysis 
Regression discontinuity design (RDD) explores a treatment effect for those just above and 
those just below a specific cut score. In a strict RDD, those below the cut score receive the 
treatment, whereas those above the cut score do not. When applied to the screening 
assessment data, those above the benchmarks are eligible for treatment to help boost reading 
and English skills. In contrast, those above the cut score typically would not be eligible. School 
situations are complicated, and the screening assessment score is likely not the only criterion 
for which a student may become eligible for treatment.  
Furthermore, we do not have specific treatment information for these students. Therefore, our 
setup would be closer to an intent-to-treat framework. We want to show an abundance of 
caution here that this analysis does not represent a treatment effect for any specific treatment 
or screening assessment because there is significant school and treatment heterogeneity. 
Instead, this analysis helps to make groups similar to compare students just above to those just 
below a screening assessment cut score to help adjust for sample differences across screening 
assessments.  
Within a screening assessment and time of year, the screening assessment scores were 
standardized by subtracting the specific cut score and dividing by the sample specific standard 
deviation for each screening assessment. This allows the screening assessments to be analyzed 
together in a single analysis, with the RDD model using coefficients to adjust for each screening 
assessment. Centering the screening assessment scores on the specific benchmark allowed us 
to set up the discontinuity at the benchmark score and identify students below 0 as those 
===PAGE 237===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 233 – 
eligible for treatment compared with those who would not be eligible for treatment. The 
general form of the RDD model was as follows:  
𝑀𝐶𝐴𝑆    =  𝛽  + 𝛽  𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑠   +  𝛽  𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑠  +  𝛽 𝐵𝑒𝑙𝑜𝑤 
+  𝛽 𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑠: 𝐵𝑒𝑙𝑜𝑤  +  𝛽   𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟 : 𝐵𝑒𝑙𝑜𝑤 
+  𝛽  𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟 : 𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑠  +  𝛽  𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟 : 𝑆𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑠: 𝐵𝑒𝑙𝑜𝑤 
+  𝛾    +  𝜖    
where  
• 𝑀𝐶𝐴𝑆   is the grade 3 spring MCAS scores for student i and school j, 
• 𝛽  is the intercept, 
• 𝛽  is the screening assessment specific effects for screening assessment test, T, 
• 𝛽  is the association between the fall screening assessment scores and the grade 3 
MCAS scores, 
• 𝛽  is the mean difference at the cut score for those below compared with those above 
the screening assessment cut score for the reference group, 
• 𝛽  is the interaction between screening assessment composite scores and below the 
cut score indicator allowing the association between screening assessment scores and 
MCAS scores to differ above versus below the cut score, 
• 𝛽   is the interaction between specific screening assessments and the mean of those 
below versus above the screening assessment cut score allowing for different effects 
for different screening assessments, 
• 𝛽   is the interaction between screening assessment names and the composite 
screening assessment scores allowing different associations by screening assessment, 
• 𝛽   is the three-way interaction between screening assessment composite scores, 
specific screening assessments, and below or above the cut score indicators that allows 
there to be different slopes for different screening assessments below versus above the 
cut scores.  
• 𝛾   are school-specific random effects to adjust for school effects, and 
• 𝜖  , are student-specific residuals. 
Two analyses were explored for the 2023/24 school year data, one using the below-benchmark 
and another using the significantly below-benchmark for each screening assessment to 
establish the cut-score location. The DIBELS 8th Edition screening assessment served as the 
reference group for the analysis. The optimal cut score was 0.927 for the below benchmark 
analysis and 0.544 for the significantly below benchmark analysis. To account for multiple 
statistical tests being performed and to keep the familywise type I error rate in control, test 
===PAGE 238===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 234 – 
statistics larger than 2.58 in absolute value were considered, which would be equivalent to a  
p-value of 0.01 with a standard normal distribution.  
Tables E3 and E4 show the study results for each analysis. For the below benchmark analysis, 
there was evidence of a positive association between fall screening assessment scores and spring 
MCAS scores across all screening assessments. For DIBELS 8th Edition, the association was weaker 
for those below the cut score. In contrast, the association was stronger for i-Ready and Star 
Reading for those below the cut score. Finally, there was an estimated discontinuity for i-Ready, 
with those below the cut score having an average spring MCAS score about 4.2 points higher than 
those who took DIBELS 8th Edition (Figure E5). When looking at the significantly below benchmark 
analysis, one term was important showing a positive association between fall screening 
assessment scores and spring MCAS scores across all screening assessments (Figure E6).  
Table E3. Regression Discontinuity Analysis Results That Estimate the Difference 
Between Those Just Above Compared With Those Just Below the Benchmark by 
Screening Assessment 
Term Estimate SE Statistic 
(Intercept) 494.415 0.89 553.31 
Acadience Reading 3.126 3.76 0.83 
FastBridge aReading –4.471 3.39 –1.32 
i-Ready 1.268 1.36 0.93 
mCLASS –1.842 1.09 –1.69 
Star Reading –1.677 1.25 –1.35 
Not below cut –2.227 0.97 –2.29 
Screening assessment score 21.678 1.38 15.74 
Not below cut:screening assessment score –9.748 1.94 –5.03 
Acadience Reading:not below cut –4.641 4.01 –1.16 
FastBridge aReading:not below cut –1.005 3.60 –0.28 
i-Ready:not below cut 4.223 1.46 2.89 
mCLASS:not below cut 1.268 1.21 1.05 
Star Reading:not below cut 3.303 1.34 2.47 
===PAGE 239===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 235 – 
Term Estimate SE Statistic 
Acadience Reading:screening assessment score –1.516 6.96 –0.22 
FastBridge aReading:screening assessment score –1.301 5.84 –0.22 
i-Ready:screening assessment score –3.686 2.11 –1.75 
mCLASS:screening assessment score –3.841 1.67 –2.30 
Star Reading:screening assessment score –2.757 1.97 –1.40 
Acadience Reading:not below cut:screening 
assessment score 
9.620 8.21 1.17 
FastBridge aReading:not below cut:screening 
assessment score 
14.426 7.03 2.05 
i-Ready:not below cut:screening assessment score 13.861 2.94 4.72 
mCLASS:not below cut:screening assessment score 2.349 2.41 0.98 
Star Reading:not below cut:screening assessment 
score 
15.836 2.70 5.87 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Table E4. Regression Discontinuity Analysis Results That Estimate the Difference 
Between Those Just Above Compared With Those Significantly Below Benchmark by 
Screening Assessment 
Term Estimate SE Statistic 
(Intercept) 482.304 1.20 400.96 
Acadience Reading 0.807 5.40 0.15 
FastBridge aReading –11.045 6.13 –1.80 
i-Ready 1.117 1.82 0.61 
mCLASS 0.474 1.43 0.33 
Star Reading 3.018 1.68 1.80 
Not below cut 1.217 1.45 0.84 
===PAGE 240===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 236 – 
Term Estimate SE Statistic 
Screening assessment score 17.689 3.32 5.32 
Not below cut:screening assessment score 2.730 4.49 0.61 
Acadience Reading:not below cut 12.316 7.14 1.73 
FastBridge aReading:not below cut 1.213 7.19 0.17 
i-Ready:not below cut –2.652 2.16 –1.23 
mCLASS:not below cut 0.467 1.75 0.27 
Star Reading:not below cut –0.838 1.94 –0.43 
Acadience Reading:screening assessment score –17.249 18.63 –0.93 
FastBridge aReading:screening assessment score –28.985 25.01 –1.16 
i-Ready:screening assessment score –2.416 5.45 –0.44 
mCLASS:screening assessment score 1.445 3.97 0.36 
Star Reading:screening assessment score –4.096 4.77 –0.86 
Acadience Reading:not below cut:screening 
assessment score 
–12.669 23.55 –0.54 
FastBridge aReading:not below cut:screening 
assessment score 
30.959 27.69 1.12 
i-Ready:not below cut:screening assessment score 4.570 7.17 0.64 
mCLASS:not below cut:screening assessment score –8.695 5.43 –1.60 
Star Reading:not below cut:screening assessment 
score 
7.841 6.16 1.27 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 241===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 237 – 
Figure E5. Model-Predicted MCAS Scores for the RDD Analysis, Estimating Gaps 
Between Those Just Above Versus Just Below the Below Benchmark Cut Score 
 
Note. See Figure E5 Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 242===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 238 – 
Figure E6. Model-Predicted MCAS Scores for the RDD Analysis, Estimating Gaps 
Between Those Just Above Versus Just Below the Significantly Below Benchmark 
Cut Score 
 
Note. See Figure E6 Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
 
===PAGE 243===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 239 – 
Appendix F. Corresponding Data Tables and 
Figure Descriptions 
Figure 2. Corresponding Data Table 
Demographic characteristic Percentage in sample Percentage in state 
Kindergarten 26% 24% 
Grade 1 26% 25% 
Grade 2 24% 26% 
Grade 3 24% 25% 
MCAS meeting/exceeding 37% 42% 
Low income 51% 43% 
Female 49% 49% 
Male 51% 51% 
English learner students 25% 19% 
Special education students 20% 17% 
White 74% 77% 
Hispanic 32% 26% 
Black 20% 17% 
Asian 8% 10% 
American Indian/Alaska Native 6% 4% 
Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 1% 0.7% 
Note. See Figure 2. 
===PAGE 244===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 240 – 
Figure 8. Corresponding Data Table 
Assessment 
Significantly below 
benchmark two or more 
times (25th percentile) 
Significantly below 
benchmark two or more 
times (publisher-provided 
benchmark) 
DIBELS 8th Edition 15% 22% 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
n/a 27% 
Star Early Literacy 32% 31% 
mCLASS 24% 31% 
Star Reading 33% 32% 
i-Ready 27% 43% 
Total 25% 30% 
Note. See Figure 8. 
Figure 11. Corresponding Data Table 
Demographic characteristic Non-Hispanic/Black Hispanic/Black 
Non-LI 26% 29% 
Not Hispanic/Black 38% 44% 
LI 42% 47% 
EL 57% 61% 
EL, LI 60% 63% 
SpecEdSvc 60% 66% 
SpecEdSvc, LI 63% 68% 
Note. See Figure 11. 
Figure 12. Full Description 
This Sankey diagram tracks the academic progression of students who have beginning-of-year 
(BOY), middle-of-year (MOY), and end-of-year (EOY) screening assessment scores, showing how 
===PAGE 245===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 241 – 
performance levels (either significantly below benchmark or not significantly below benchmark) 
change across the academic year and into final outcomes. 
Initial Distribution (BOY) 
• Not significantly below at BOY: 67% of students 
• Significantly below at BOY: 33% of students 
From BOY to MOY 
• Of students not significantly below at BOY, 89% maintained that performance level at 
MOY, while 11% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students significantly below at BOY, 75% remained significantly below at MOY, while 
25% improved to not significantly below. 
From MOY to EOY 
• Of students who remained at not significantly below from BOY to MOY, 95% 
maintained that performance level at EOY, whereas 5% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students who fell to significantly below from BOY to MOY, 58% maintained that 
performance level at EOY and 42% improved to not significantly below. 
• Of students who remained at significantly below from BOY to MOY, 76% maintained 
that performance level at EOY, whereas 24% improved to not significantly below. 
• Of students who improved to not significantly below from BOY to MOY, 83% 
maintained that performance level at EOY and 17% fell to significantly below. 
Final Outcomes 
• Not significantly below at EOY: 73% of students 
• Significantly below at EOY: 27% of students 
Note. See Figure 12. 
Figure 13. Full Description 
This Sankey diagram tracks the academic progression of students who have beginning-of-year 
(BOY), middle-of-year (MOY), and end-of-year (EOY) screening assessment scores, showing how 
performance levels (met benchmark, below benchmark, or significantly below benchmark) 
change across the academic year and into final outcomes. 
Initial Distribution (BOY) 
• Met at BOY: 48% of students 
===PAGE 246===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 242 – 
• Below at BOY: 20% of students 
• Significantly below at BOY: 32% of students 
From BOY to MOY 
• Of students who met at BOY, 88% maintained that performance level at MOY, while 9% 
fell to below 
• Of students who were below at BOY, 33% improved to met, 36% remained below, and 
31% fell to significantly below 
• Of students who were significantly below at BOY, 11% improved to met, 14% improved 
to below, and 75% remained significantly below 
From MOY to EOY 
• Of students who remained at met from BOY to MOY, 95% maintained that performance 
level at EOY. 
• Of students who fell to below from BOY to MOY, 60% improved to met. 
• Of students who were below at BOY and improved to met at MOY, 81% maintained 
that performance level at EOY. 
• Of students who remained below from BOY to MOY, 43% improved to met at EOY. 
• Of students who were below at BOY and fell to significantly below at MOY, 62% 
remained at that performance level at EOY. 
• Of students who were significantly below at BOY and improved to met at MOY, 77% 
remained at that performance level at EOY. 
• Of students who remained at significantly below from BOY to MOY, 14% improved to 
below at MOY and 76% remained at that performance level at EOY. 
Final Outcomes 
• Met at EOY: 60% of students 
• Below at EOY: 13% of students 
• Significantly below at EOY: 27% of students 
Note. See Figure 13. 
===PAGE 247===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 243 – 
Figure 18. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade and BOY status Not 
meeting 
Partially 
meeting Meeting Exceeding 
G2 BOY significantly below 
benchmark 
35% 49% 11% 0% 
G2 BOY not significantly below 
benchmark 
4% 38% 49% 9% 
G3 BOY significantly below 
benchmark 
46% 54% 4% 0% 
G3 BOY not significantly below 
benchmark 
4% 41% 47% 8% 
Note. See Figure 18. 
Figure 22. Full Description 
This Sankey diagram tracks the academic progression of English learner students who have 
beginning-of-year (BOY), middle-of-year (MOY), and end-of-year (EOY) screening assessment 
scores on the Star Early Literacy or Star Reading assessments in English, showing how 
performance levels (either significantly below benchmark or not significantly below benchmark) 
change across the academic year and into final outcomes. 
Initial Distribution (BOY) 
• Not significantly below at BOY: 27% of students 
• Significantly below at BOY: 73% of students 
From BOY to MOY 
• Of students who were not significantly below at BOY, 81% maintained that 
performance level at MOY, whereas 19% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students who were significantly below at BOY, 24% improved to not significantly 
below, whereas 76% remained significantly below. 
From MOY to EOY 
• Of students who remained at not significantly below from BOY to MOY, 87% 
maintained that performance level at EOY, while 13% fell to significantly below. 
===PAGE 248===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 244 – 
• Of students who fell to significantly below from BOY to MOY, 49% improved to not 
significantly below, whereas 51% remained significantly below. 
• Of students who improved to not significantly below from BOY to MOY, 62% 
maintained that performance level at EOY, whereas 38% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students who remained at significantly below from BOY to MOY, 15% improved to 
not significantly below, whereas 85% remained significantly below. 
Final Outcomes 
• Not significantly below at EOY: 41% of students 
• Significantly below at EOY: 59% of students 
Note. See Figure 22. 
Figure 23. Full Description 
This Sankey diagram tracks the academic progression of students who have beginning-of-year 
(BOY), middle-of-year (MOY), and end-of-year (EOY) screening assessment scores on Star Early 
Literacy or Star Reading assessments in Spanish, showing how performance levels (either 
significantly below benchmark or not significantly below benchmark) change across the 
academic year and into final outcomes. 
Initial Distribution (BOY) 
• Not significantly below at BOY: 31% of students 
• Significantly below at BOY: 69% of students 
From BOY to MOY 
• Of students who were not significantly below at BOY, 71% maintained that 
performance level at MOY, whereas 29% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students who were significantly below at BOY, 17% improved to not significantly 
below, whereas 83% remained significantly below. 
From MOY to EOY 
• Of students who remained at not significantly below from BOY to MOY, 82% 
maintained that performance level at EOY, whereas 18% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students who fell to significantly below from BOY to MOY, 28% improved to not 
significantly below, whereas 72% remained significantly below. 
• Of students who improved to not significantly below from BOY to MOY, 49% 
maintained that performance level at EOY, whereas 51% fell to significantly below. 
===PAGE 249===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 245 – 
• Of students who remained at significantly below from BOY to MOY, 8% improved to not 
significantly below, whereas 92% remained significantly below. 
Final Outcomes 
• Not significantly below at EOY: 31% of students 
• Significantly below at EOY: 69% of students 
Note. See Figure 23. 
Figure D1. Full Description 
This Sankey diagram tracks the academic progression of students who have beginning-of-year 
(BOY), middle-of-year (MOY), and end-of-year (EOY) screening assessment scores, showing how 
performance levels (where performing at or below the 25th percentile means at significant risk 
and where performing above the 25th percentile means not at significant risk) change across 
the academic year and into final outcomes. 
Initial Distribution (BOY) 
• Not at significant risk at BOY: 74% of students 
• At significant risk at BOY: 26% of students 
From BOY to MOY 
• Of students who were not at significant risk at BOY, 94% maintained that performance 
level at MOY, whereas 6% moved to at significant risk. 
• Of students who were at significant risk at BOY, 26% improved to not at significant risk, 
whereas 74% remained at significant risk. 
From MOY to EOY 
• Of students who remained not at significant risk from BOY to MOY, 95% maintained 
that performance level at EOY, whereas 5% moved to at significant risk. 
• Of students who moved to at significant risk from BOY to MOY, 42% improved to not at 
significant risk at EOY, whereas 58% remained at significant risk. 
• Of students who improved to not at significant risk from BOY to MOY, 73% maintained 
that performance level at EOY, whereas 27% moved to at significant risk. 
• Of students who remained at significant risk from BOY to MOY, 16% improved to not at 
significant risk at EOY, whereas 84% remained at significant risk. 
===PAGE 250===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 246 – 
Final Outcomes 
• Not at Significant Risk at EOY: 76% of students 
• At Significant Risk at EOY: 24% of students 
Note. See Figure D1. 
Figure D2. Full Description 
This Sankey diagram tracks the academic progression of students who have beginning-of-year 
(BOY), middle-of-year (MOY), and end-of-year (EOY) screening assessment scores, showing how 
performance levels (where above 40th percentile means met benchmark, at or below 40th 
percentile means below benchmark, and below 25th percentile means significantly below 
benchmark) change across the academic year and into final outcomes. 
Initial Distribution (BOY) 
• Met at BOY: 60% of students 
• Below at BOY: 14% of students 
• Significantly below at BOY: 26% of students 
From BOY to MOY 
• Of students who met at BOY, 89% maintained that performance level at MOY, whereas 
8% fell to below. 
• Of students who were below at BOY, 39% improved to met, 38% remained below, and 
23% fell to significantly below. 
• Of students who were significantly below at BOY, 11% improved to met, 15% improved 
to below, and 73% remained significantly below. 
From MOY to EOY 
• Of students who remained at met from BOY to MOY, 93% maintained that performance 
level at EOY. 
• Of students who fell from met at BOY to below at MOY, 43% improved to met and 39% 
maintained that performance level at EOY. 
• Of students who were below at BOY and improved to met at MOY, 72% maintained 
that performance level at EOY. 
• Of students who remained below from BOY to MOY, 31% improved to met and 45% 
maintained that performance level at EOY. 
===PAGE 251===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 247 – 
• Of students who fell from below to significantly below from BOY to MOY, 62% 
maintained that performance level at EOY. 
• Of the students who were significantly below at BOY and improved to met at MOY, 66% 
maintained that performance level at EOY. 
• Of the students who were significantly below at BOY and improved to below at MOY, 
37% fell back to significantly below at EOY. 
• Of students who remained significantly below from BOY to MOY, 84% maintained that 
performance level at EOY. 
Final Outcomes 
• Met at EOY: 62% of students 
• Below at EOY: 14% of students 
• Significantly below at EOY: 24% of students 
Note. See Figure D2. 
Figure D5. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Gender Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 Female 69% 63% 
Grades K–1 Male 72% 66% 
Grades 1–2 Female 84% 80% 
Grades 1–2 Male 86% 82% 
Grades 2–3 Female 82% 79% 
Grades 2–3 Male 82% 77% 
Note. See Figure D5. 
Figure D6. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Income status Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 Low income 75% 70% 
Grades K–1 Non–low income 66% 56% 
===PAGE 252===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 248 – 
Grade level Income status Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades 1–2 Low income 88% 83% 
Grades 1–2 Non–low income 82% 78% 
Grades 2–3 Low income 86% 81% 
Grades 2–3 Non–low income 77% 73% 
Note. See Figure D6. 
Figure D7. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level English learner 
status Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 English learner 78% 72% 
Grades K–1 Non–English learner 67% 59% 
Grades 1–2 English learner 89% 87% 
Grades 1–2 Non–English learner 83% 78% 
Grades 2–3 English learner 88% 83% 
Grades 2–3 Non–English learner 79% 75% 
Note. See Figure D7. 
Figure D8. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Special education 
status Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 Special education 84% 78% 
Grades K–1 Non–special education 66% 59% 
Grades 1–2 Special education 92% 88% 
Grades 1–2 Non–special education 81% 76% 
Grades 2–3 Special education 90% 84% 
Grades 2–3 Non–special education 77% 73% 
Note. See Figure D8. 
===PAGE 253===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 249 – 
Figure D9. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 White 71% 64% 
Grades K–1 Non-White 71% 67% 
Grades 1–2 White 85% 81% 
Grades 1–2 Non-White 83% 78% 
Grades 2–3 White 81% 78% 
Grades 2–3 Non-White 84% 79% 
Note. See Figure D9. 
Figure D10. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Hispanic status Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 Hispanic 77% 72% 
Grades K–1 Non-Hispanic 66% 58% 
Grades 1–2 Hispanic 88% 84% 
Grades 1–2 Non-Hispanic 84% 79% 
Grades 2–3 Hispanic 86% 81% 
Grades 2–3 Non-Hispanic 80% 76% 
Note. See Figure D10. 
Figure D11. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 Black 71% 64% 
Grades K–1 Non-Black 71% 65% 
Grades 1–2 Black 86% 80% 
===PAGE 254===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 250 – 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades 1–2 Non-Black 85% 81% 
Grades 2–3 Black 86% 80% 
Grades 2–3 Non-Black 81% 78% 
Note. See Figure D11. 
Figure D12. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 Asian 54% 46% 
Grades K–1 Non-Asian 72% 66% 
Grades 1–2 Asian 79% 81% 
Grades 1–2 Non-Asian 85% 81% 
Grades 2–3 Asian 77% 75% 
Grades 2–3 Non-Asian 82% 78% 
Note. See Figure D12. 
Figure D13. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades K–1 American 
Indian/Alaska Native 
80% 75% 
Grades K–1 Non–American 
Indian/Alaska Native 
69% 63% 
Grades 1–2 American 
Indian/Alaska Native 
79% 72% 
Grades 1–2 Non–American 
Indian/Alaska Native 
85% 82% 
===PAGE 255===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 251 – 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly below 
benchmark 
Grades 2–3 American 
Indian/Alaska Native 
85% 80% 
Grades 2–3 Non–American 
Indian/Alaska Native 
81% 78% 
Note. See Figure D13. 
Figure D14. Corresponding Data Table 
Grade level Race/ethnicity Below benchmark Significantly 
below benchmark 
Grades K–1 Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
64% 64% 
Grades K–1 Non–Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 
71% 65% 
Grades 1–2 Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
100% 78% 
Grades 1–2 Non–Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 
85% 81% 
Grades 2–3 Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander 
78% 78% 
Grades 2–3 Non–Native 
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 
82% 78% 
Note. See Figure D14. 
Figure E1. Corresponding Data Tables 
Screeners 
Screening Assessment Value 
Star Reading Approx. 0.12 
Star Early Literacy Approx. 0.14 
mCLASS Approx. 0.11 
===PAGE 256===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 252 – 
Screening Assessment Value 
MAP Reading Fluency Approx. 0.05 
i-Ready Approx. 0.25 
FastBridge aReading Approx. 0.06 
DIBELS 8th Edition Approx. 0.11 
Acadience Reading Approx. 0.12 
Grade 
Grade Value 
K Approx. 0.09 
3 Approx. 0.11 
2 Approx. 0.12 
1 Approx. 0.10 
Early Child Programs 
Program type Value 
None Approx. 0.10 
Informal Approx. 0.09 
Formal Approx. 0.08 
Low Income 
Low income status Value 
Yes Approx. 0.17 
No Approx. 0.10 
Note. See Figure E1. 
===PAGE 257===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 253 – 
Figure E5. Full Description 
Figure contains six scatterplots with fitted regression lines, each showing screener scores 
(centered on cutoff below benchmark scores) on the x-axis and predicted MCAS scores on the 
y-axis. A vertical dashed line marks the cutoff. For each screener, two regression lines are 
plotted: one for students scoring below the cutoff and one for students scoring above. In every 
panel, predicted MCAS scores increase with higher screener scores. 
• DIBELS 8th Edition: The upward slope is slightly steeper before the cutoff, with a bit of 
discontinuity at the cutoff, after which the slope flattens slightly. 
• Acadience Reading: Similar upward slopes are visible on both sides of the cutoff, with a 
small discontinuity at the cutoff. 
• FastBridge aReading: Slopes upward at similar rates on both sides, with a bit of 
discontinuity at the cutoff. 
• i-Ready: Shows consistent upward slopes on both sides, with a bit of discontinuity at 
the cutoff. 
• mCLASS: The upward slope is somewhat steeper before the cutoff, with little to no 
discontinuity at the cutoff, after which the slope flattens. 
• Star Reading: Both sides slope upward at similar rates, and the lines meet at nearly the 
same point at the cutoff, showing little to no discontinuity. 
Note. See Figure E5. 
Figure E6. Full Description 
Figure contains six scatterplots with fitted regression lines, each showing screener scores 
(centered on cutoff significantly below benchmark scores) on the x-axis and predicted MCAS 
scores on the y-axis. A vertical dashed line marks the cutoff. For each screener, two regression 
lines are plotted: one for students scoring below the cutoff and one for students scoring above. 
• DIBELS 8th Edition: Predicted MCAS scores increase at similar rates below and above 
the cutoff, with minimal discontinuity at the cutoff. 
• Acadience Reading: The regression line below the cutoff is nearly flat, whereas the line 
above the cutoff is also nearly flat with a slight downward slope. At the cutoff, there is 
a positive discontinuity of about 10 points, with predicted MCAS scores higher for 
students above the cutoff. 
• FastBridge aReading: Below the cutoff, the regression line slopes slightly downward, 
whereas above the cutoff it slopes upward, with little to no discontinuity at the cutoff. 
• i-Ready: Predicted MCAS scores increase steadily with screener scores, with minimal 
discontinuity at the cutoff. 
===PAGE 258===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 254 – 
• mCLASS: Both lines slope upward with screener scores, with a small discontinuity at the 
cutoff. 
• Star Reading: Both lines slope upward with screener scores, and there is little to no 
discontinuity at the cutoff. 
Note. See Figure E6. 
 
===PAGE 259===
 
 
 
