Stormwater Utility Budget
Finance Committee 
February 5, 
2026

What is a Stormwater Utility?
A stormwater utility treats stormwater management as a public service that is provided like electricity, heating, and water.  
The utility operates as a 
dedicated enterprise fund 
and is supported by property assessments based on the contribution of stormwater runoff to municipally managed storm sewer systems. 
A stormwater utility is a 
stable source of revenue 
that can be used to create enterprise funds to plan and complete more comprehensive stormwater-related programs and improvements beyond the MS4 program requirements. 

What is stormwater?
Water that 
runs off all properties 
after a rain or snowstorm picking up litter, bacteria, chemicals, sand, and other debris as it flows over the land and into storm drains and water bodies. 
Stormwater carries these pollutants to our streams, lakes, &amp; wetlands (
Hickory Hills, Shirley, Whalom
).   
Cleaner stormwater runoff means cleaner water for drinking, swimming, fishing, boating and for protecting wildlife.

Why do we need to manage stormwater?
Stormwater runoff results from rainfall and snow melt and represents the 
single largest source responsible for water quality impairments 
in the Commonwealth’s rivers, lakes, ponds, and marine waters. 
Town Bylaw § 204-1 Stormwater management
NPDES Phase II permit, MS4 Permit – Federal/State

MS4 Permit
United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), General Permits For Stormwater Discharges From Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems In Massachusetts. 
A permit issued by the EPA or jointly with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (MassDEP) that 
authorizes the discharge 
of stormwater to waters of the Unites States.

Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) 
A MS4 is a system of publicly owned or operated conveyances, like pipes, ditches, and storm drains, used to collect and convey stormwater runoff, which is then discharged to waters of the United States.

MS4 Permit Six Minimum Control Measures
1. Public Education &amp; Outreach – 
(every year)
Municipalities must educate residents, businesses, and developers about stormwater impacts and good housekeeping practices and how daily activities affect stormwater quality—e.g., fertilizer use, pet waste, proper disposal of household chemicals.
 
2. Public Involvement &amp; Participation 
(SWTF)
Towns must:
Provide opportunities for public comments.
Involve residents in stormwater planning (e.g., public meetings).

MS4 Permit Six Minimum Control Measures
3. Illicit Discharge Detection &amp; Elimination (IDDE) – 
(program in place)
The permit requires an extensive IDDE program including:
A legally enforceable prohibition on illicit discharges.
Complete mapping of all outfalls and storm sewers.
Procedures for identifying and eliminating illicit discharges.
Documentation of sanitary sewer overflows.
4. Construction Site Stormwater Runoff Control 
(rules in place)
Municipalities must have:
Local rules for erosion and sediment control.
Procedures for reviewing construction site plans.
Site inspection requirements.
These apply to disturbances of ≥1 acre or part of a larger common plan.
Enforce local controls on sediment and runoff

MS4 Permit Six Minimum Control Measures
5. Post‑Construction Stormwater Management 
(bylaws in place)
Towns must ensure long‑term control of runoff from new development/redevelopment. Requirements include:
Stormwater best management practices (BMPs).
Local bylaws/ordinances ensuring long‑term pollutant reduction.
6. Pollution Prevention / Good Housekeeping for Municipal Operations
This includes: 
(funding required)
Operations &amp; Maintenance Plans for storm systems.
Training municipal staff on proper stormwater practices
Catch basin cleaning schedules to maintain &lt;50% capacity.
Annual inspection/maintenance of stormwater structures.
Street sweeping at least annually.
Winter road maintenance procedures minimizing salt use

MS4 Permit Additional Core Requirements
Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) – 
(completed)
Municipalities must maintain a written Stormwater Management Plan describing how they meet all six minimum control measures.
Annual Reporting - 
(funding required)
Each municipality must submit an Annual Report by May 1 each year to EPA and MassDEP documenting permit compliance.
Notice of Intent (NOI) - 
(completed)
Municipalities must file an NOI to obtain permit coverage.
Requirements for TMDL‑ or Impaired Waters 
(funding required)
If town stormwater drains to waters with pollutant problems (nitrogen, phosphorus, bacteria, etc.), extra requirements apply.

MS4 Permit – Why Meeting 
The Requirements Matters
Compliance protects local waterways, drinking water, and recreation areas.
Failing to comply can result in enforcement actions or costly corrective work.
MS4 requirements are long-term and require annual budgeting and staff capacity
.
Deferred maintenance costs more in the future (often 2-5 times more).

How Are The Requirements Paid For?
Present DPW Operations Budget
FY 26 Budget - $110,000
Public Outreach
Illicit Discharge Detection &amp; Elimination screening if suspected
Training 
BMP Inspections
Engineering for small projects
Small projects
Stormwater Utility Budget
Budget - $496,793
Public Outreach
Illicit Discharge Detection &amp; Elimination screening – dedicated program
Training 
BMP Inspections
Engineering for big and small projects 
Small projects – future capital projects
Catch basin cleaning
Roadway sweeping
Future Requirements
Stream restoration
New stormwater BMP’s
Develop pesticide, herbicide, and fertilizer program

MS4 Permit Criminal Penalties
Negligent Violations - $2,500 to $25,000 per day per violation or by imprisonment of not more than two years, or both.
Knowing Violations - $5,000 to $50,000 per day per violation or by imprisonment for not more than 3 years, or both.
Knowing Endangerment - $250,000 or by imprisonment of not more than 15 years, or both. 
False Statement - $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than 2 years.
Civil Penalties – Administrative – Class I - $11,000 per violation up to $32,500.
Civil Penalties – Administrative – Class II - $11,000 per violation up to $157,500.

How is this paid for now?
Presently, the DPW Operational Budget pays for the work required by the MS4 Permit.
However, the work performed 
does not meet 
the requirements of the MS4 Permit.
An additional $340,000 per year would need to be added to the Operational Budget to get close to compliance. 
Capital Funds are used for equipment.
Chapter 90 Funds are used for drainage projects.

Why are we not meeting requirements?
There are not enough funds available to sufficiently fund the work required and the equipment needed to fully comply with the MS4 Permit including:
Roadway Sweeping
Catch basin cleaning
Reporting Requirements
Day to Day Stormwater Operations
Necessary upgrades
Emergencies

New MS4 Permit Requirements
A 2024 draft revision, which is currently under review, builds on previous MS4 obligations by:
Updating IDDE and monitoring requirements
Adding new impaired waters monitoring obligations
Additional funding needed to meet the new requirements

Stormwater Utility Budget 
(Compliance Only)

New Personnel and Existing Personnel
Note:  The Sewer Enterprise Utility pays these costs

Why Hire New Personnel?
A Stormwater Project Manager is required to produce billing, document the work performed by the Utility, inspect the work of contractors and in-house personnel, and help develop contract specifications for stormwater related projects.  The Stormwater Project Manager will inspect Stormwater BMP's on private properties to ensure compliance with Operation and Maintenance Manuals when a utility fee abatement program is in place.  The Stormwater Project Manager would reduce our dependency on consultants to perform this work; thus, resulting in cost savings.  Presently, there is no available staff to perform all this work. Hiring would occur in the second quarter of the first year of the Stormwater Utility.

Other Personnel Costs
Fringe Benefits include the following:  Medicare, Retirement, Health Insurance, Life Insurance.  Fringe Benefits can be up to 31% of an employee's yearly salary.
The DPW Director will oversee the Stormwater Utility and its employees.  The 15% represents the amount of time the DPW Director spends directly working for the Stormwater Utility.  The same amount is allocated to the Sewer Utility.

Indirect Costs
Note:  The Sewer Enterprise Utility pays these costs

Expenses
Note:  The Sewer Enterprise Utility pays these costs

Expenses
Office Space is required for the Stormwater Engineer/GIS Manager.  The Sewer Utility has two employees and pays $6,000 per year for office space.  Therefore, say $3,000.
Office Expenses include paper, pens, printer ink, envelopes, file folders, and other necessities for a typical office environment.  The Sewer Utility has averaged $900 in the past three years.  As the Stormwater Utility is new, more office supplies will be required.

Expenses
The cost of a stamp is $0.74.  There are approximately 4,800 properties that will receive a bill.  Billing will be once per year.  $0.74 X 4,800 = $3,552.  Say 25% of properties will require Demand letters: $0.74 X 4,800 X 25% =   $888.  Total of $4,440.
The estimated cost of Legal Counsel per year is $4,000 based on an average of $3,900 over the past three years for the Sewer Utility.

Expenses
An estimated budget of $1,000 is needed for other expenses such as newspaper advertisements, field supplies, etc.

Vendors
Note:  The Sewer Enterprise Utility uses vendors



Vendors
Engineering for MS4 Permit.  For the past 8 years, the Town has used CEI, Inc for engineering assistance with the MS4 Permit.  In FY 2025, $21,000 was spent on this effort. 
There are 1,000 know catch basins in the UA (Urbanized Area).  Some catch basins will be full of sand (say 2 CY) and others will have very little.  For this estimate, use 0.25 CY per catch basin.  Per MassDOT weighted bid prices, use $325 per CY.  A budget of $81,250 is required.
There are 72 miles of roadway in the UA that require sweeping 2X per year, and both shoulders will be swept.  Use $800 per mile, from a recent MassDOT contract.  A budget of $230,400 is required.

Preliminary 
Stormwater Utility Rate Schedule
The fee for Residential Single Family Homes will be less than $100 per year.
A tiered fee structure will be used for all other properties based on how much impervious area each property has.
This Rate Schedule will raise enough funds for the proposed budget.

Stormwater Utility    vs. 	DPW Operational                    						Budget
Funding comes from Fees.
Funds are dedicated to MS4 permit compliance.
Charges are based on the contribution of stormwater runoff to municipally (impervious area).
Abatements for BMP’s (future)
Funds can used to meet grant matching requirements.
Funds can be used for projects.
Long-term, sustainable sources of funding.
Funding comes from Taxes.
Stormwater funds can be used for other work or removed from the budget entirely (like Pavement Management).
Unbalanced contribution of funds from properties.
No abatements.
Tax exempt properties do not contribute.

Stormwater Utility    vs. 	DPW Operational                    						Budget
MS4 Reporting requirements
Roadway sweeping
Catch basin cleaning
Illicit discharge detection
Stream restoration
New stormwater BMP’s
Develop pesticide, herbicide, and fertilizer program
MS4 public education
MS4 Reporting requirements
Roadway sweeping
Catch basin cleaning
NOTE:  only if funding is available

Why is a Utility Fee Not a Tax?
A tax is defined as a financial charge or other levy imposed on an individual or legal entity by a state or a functional equivalent of a state.  
The purpose of a tax is simply to raise revenue, and 
there need not be any single, predetermined use of the revenue
. 
Taxes could be raised to pay for MS4 compliance but then appropriated elsewhere in the Town’s budget.
A fee is the price one pays as 
payment for services
, such as fees paid for by users of a municipal utility.
Fees are dedicated to MS4 compliance

Other Towns With A Stormwater Utility
Groton
Pepperell
Ayer
Rutland
Westford
Concord
Chelmsford
Hudson
30 more

Core Messages
We need a stormwater utility because many of our rivers and streams are polluted from chemicals found in stormwater.
Our lives depend on having clean, healthy water.
Stormwater Utilities are a fair way to pay for reduction in stormwater pollutants.
Ignoring stormwater pollutions leads to flooding, health problems, and property damage.
Ignoring the problem now leads to increased future costs.
Utility funds can be used to overcome the polluted runoff from our paved surfaces including parking lots, driveways and roads.
The average homeowner will pay less than $100/year, much less than they pay for cable television and smartphone combined.
We all cause pollution; we all need to work and pay to clean it up.

Next Steps for the Stormwater Task Force?
Outreach to Boards and Committees.
Public outreach.
Finalize the cost for homeowners and businesses.
Warrant article at the Spring 2026 Annual Town Meeting to establish the Stormwater Utility (no budget, just the establishment of the Utility).

Thank you!
Stormwater Task Force
Timothy 
Willsmer
, Chair (Planning Board Representative)
John Beale, Member At Large
Renee Emkey (Select Board Representative) 
Jenny 
Pewtherer
, Member (Conservation Commission Representative)
Mark Muzzi, Member At Large
Bill Bernard, Staff – DPW Director