===PAGE 1===
 Lunenburg  Trust  Fund  Commission 
 Bilotta  Meeting  Room/PACC 
 Lunenburg  Town  Hall 
 November  25,  2025 
 The  meeting  was  called  to  order  at  5:00  pm  by  Chairman  Bowen.  Present  were  Mr  Howard  and 
 Chairman  Bowen. 
 Members  recited  the  Pledge  of  Allegiance.  Chairman  Bowen  proceeded  to  read  the  posted 
 open  meeting  notice  from  the  Agenda.. 
 There  was  no  Public  comment:  No  comment  from  either  Mr  Howard  or  Chairman  Bowen.  There 
 was  no  public  present  in  the  meeting  room  nor  on  the  Zoom  platform.. 
 There  were  no  Treasurer  or  Finance  Director  reports. 
 New  Business:  Review  and  ratify  meeting  minutes.  Chairman  Bowen  made  a  Motion  to 
 approve  the  minutes  of  Nov  13,  2025  as  written,  motion  seconded  by  Mr  Howard.  The  Motion 
 passed  unanimously  with  both  Mr  Howard  and  Chairman  Bowen  voting  ‘Aye’. 
 Chairman  Bowen  and  Mr  Howard  discussed  the  application  process  to  request  funds  from  the 
 Trust  Fund  Commission.  Privacy  is  a  concern.  While  we  wish  to  preserve  the  anonymity  and 
 dignity  of  anyone  who  applies,  some  information  must  be  made  public.  Both  Mr  Howard  and 
 Chairman  Bowen  also  discussed  the  importance  of  performing  some  level  of  due  diligence  for 
 applicants  that  may  require  the  assistance  of  outside  organizations.  As  an  example,  the 
 American  Legion  requires  that  any  recipient  be  honorably  discharged,  so  we  need  to  verify  with 
 the  agent  of  Veteran  Affairs  as  an  appropriate  check  and  balance.  Chairman  Bowen  stated  that 
 he  sent  a  copy  of  the  Attorney  General’s  Office  PC-IF  form  to  the  Town  Manager  and  Myleen 
 Millari  as  this  will  be  necessary  to  begin  distribution  of  funds  since  some  of  the  language  on  the 
 original  declarations  are  obsolete. 
 Chairman  Bowen  feels  the  monies  have  been  neglected,  $87,000  that  should  have  gone  to 
 needy  members.  There  are  two  funds  that  as  originally  written  and  intended  (Gazebo  trust  and 
 Sidewalks  trust)  cannot  be  distributed  unless  modified.. 
 Chairman  Bowen  stated  that  he  has  not  heard  back  from  the  Superintendent  of  Schools 
 regarding  Scholarships. 
 The  Commission's  goal  is  to  begin  distributing  funds  as  soon  as  possible,  this  will  likely  not  be 
 until  early  2026. 
===PAGE 2===
 Chairman  Bowen  discussed  Interns.  To  date  we  have  not  filed  anything  with  any  educational 
 institutions,  not  received  any  help  from  any  interns  and  are  still  working  on  defining  roles.  If  we 
 do  bring  in  Interns  the  focus  will  be  on  real  estate  transactions.  There  is  some  administrative 
 work  involved  to  get  the  program  started,  the  Intern  role  needs  to  be  better  defined  and 
 Chairman  Bowen  is  working  on  that  issue. 
 Both  members  discussed  the  vacancy  on  the  Trust  Fund  Commission,  making  pleas  to  the 
 viewing  audience  to  get  involved.  Without  a  third  member,  progress  by  the  Trust  Fund 
 Commission  could  be  brought  to  a  halt  if  either  Mr  Howard  or  Chairman  Bowne  disagree  on  any 
 decision  requiring  a  vote.  Per  Chairman  Bowen,  when  questioned  by  Mr  Howard  on  the 
 appointment  process,  interested  candidates  would  be  placed  on  the  board  via  a  joint 
 appointment  between  the  two  Trust  Fund  Commissioners  and  the  Board  of  Selectmen. 
 The  Town  Manager  has  requested  we  review  any  changes  to  be  filed  on  Form  PC-IF  (Office  of 
 the  Attorney  General  -  Instructions  for  Institutional  Fund  Form)  with  Town  Counsel  before  formal 
 submission.  Chairman  Bowen  noted  we  do  not  have  to  get  approval  from  Town  Counsel,  the 
 Select  Board  or  any  other  members  of  the  Executive  Branch,  that  as  Trustees  we  can  rewrite 
 without  further  approval.  The  Trust  Fund  Commission  in  our  spirit  of  transparency  will  solicit 
 public  opinion  on  any  proposed  rewording  before  sending  the  document  to  the  Attorney 
 General’s  office.  The  Attorney  General’s  office  will  identify  any  language  changes  that  need  to 
 be  made. 
 Mr  Howard  and  Chairman  Bowen  began  to  review  and  make  edits  to  the  Risk  Management 
 policy.  Due  to  time  constraints,  the  review  was  not  completed  and  will  be  finished  in  a  future 
 meeting. 
 There  was  no  public  comment  from  members,  no  members  of  the  public  and  no  participants  on 
 the  Zoom  platform. 
 The  next  scheduled  meeting  is  planned  for  December  11,  2025. 
 A  motion  to  adjourn  was  raised  by  Chairman  Bowen.  The  motion  was  seconded  by  Mr  Howard. 
 Motion  passed  unanimously  with  both  members  voting  ‘aye’.  The  Meeting  was  adjourned  at 
 6:32pm  on  November  25,  2025. 
 <end> 