===PAGE 1===
Trust Fund Commission
Thursday, July 10, 2025
5:00 PM
AGENDA
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/ ) and will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg Access YouTube after the meeting.  Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the
Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI
Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that 
AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application.  You are hereby notified that this AI 
technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this 
in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy
to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless
otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make 
plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate  in the meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://zoom.us/j/7927370353 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 792 737 
0353 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “ raise hand ”  feature to request to speak.
The  agenda  lists  all  the  topics  which  may  be  discussed  at  the  meeting  and  are  those  reasonably  anticipated  by  the  Chair.  Votes  may  be
taken  as  a  result  of  these  discussions.  Not  all  the  items  listed  may  in  fact  be  discussed  and  other  items  not  listed  may  also  be  brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
5:30 PM CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
I. OPEN •PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
II. PUBLIC COMMENT***  COMMISSION • PUBLIC
III. ANNOUNCEMENTS
IV. COMMUNICATIONS FROM BOARDS/COMMISSIONS/COMMITTEES/INDIVIDUAL TRUST
REPRESENTATIVES
(communication strictly related to funds managed by the Trust Fund Commission)
V. SCHEDULED MEETINGS
(every 2 nd  and 4 th  of every month, exempting holidays or unless otherwise noted)
VI. TREASURER AND FINANCE DIRECTOR REPORTS RELATED TO FUNDS UNDER CHARGE
(strictly related to funds managed by the Trust Fund Commission as needed by request of the commission)
None
===PAGE 2===
VII. NEW BUSINESS
1. Continued Discussion of MGLA 203c “ Prudent Investor Rule ”  As passed by The Town of Lunenburg in 2024
Special Town meeting for Investment of Trust Funds into an investment pool.
2. Public Sharing of the List of Trust Funds currently organized in the investment pool and a discussion of other 
funds which may be added (i.e. Scholarship Funds-Excluding Library)
3. Play Video Clip (35 minutes) of Budget Task Force meeting From August 2024 explaining MGLA 203C
4. Discuss the creation of  Policy to govern all Trust Funds Under the care and control of the Trust Fund 
Commission. Targeting the requests and needs for compliance and use of the funds (Notating the pre-emption 
of Statute MGLA) including incorporating MGLA 203c. The Focus of Policy will be on the entirety of the 
trust accounts as a managed liquid pooled investment and the impact of withdrawals therefrom and its impact 
on the rate of return. Specifically the need to manage any negative financial impact from any withdrawals 
including its overall impact on the pooled investment and any associated penalties that will apply for early 
withdrawals during the investment cycle, how they will be paid (either from interest earned or from the 
general fund) and how to manage all impacts keeping this commissions focus predominantly on the rate of 
return while allowing the specific use of these funds (as outlined in their accompanying documents and in 
Massachusetts Statute) to continue to provide their individual benefits.
5. Discussion to Identify the quarterly dates when the investment of trust funds will be able to shift direction 
between specific paper and bond investments and investment percentages of each.
VIII.  OLD BUSINESS
1. Update on percentages invested between bonds and paper evaluating market trends and historical market 
trends of these investments and the individual investments for stabilization of the specific investments, in a 
balanced approach, focusing on the rate of return.
2. Goals of the Commission (i.e. Policy, management, investment firm evaluation, etc.)
IX. MINUTES/ACTION ITEMS
1. Approve Minutes From June 26, 2025
2. Write a letter/email to the T reasurer and the investment Firm Bartholomew and Company to acquire 
information as discussed in New Business and any other information beneficial to the commission in the 
exercise of its duties
X. INDIVIDUALS/COMMITTEE/BOARDS WHOSE FUNDS ARE UNDER CHARGE
REPORTS/COMMENT
XI. SPECIFIC INDIVIDUAL TRUST FUND INVESTMENT DIRECTION AND REVIEW/COMMENTS
XII. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
• July 24, 2025, Regular Meeting of the Commission
• August 21, 2025 Executive Session to review parameters of Trust Accounts not open for public inspection
XIII. PUBLIC COMMENT**  PUBLIC • TREASURER/FINANCE DIRECTOR • COMMISSION
XIV. ADJOURN
** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes (this may be shortened or lengthened by the Commission Chair), we 
request consideration of no more than 3 minutes per speaker (this will be decided at the discretion of the Chair)- please Note 
that Public comment is not required by law and may at times not be permitted for any reason. The agenda will always be 
notated when the chair decides to engage public comment.