===PAGE 1===
** Per Policy, Public comment will be decided at the discretion of the Chair - please Note that Public comment 
is not required by law and may at times not be permitted for any reason. 
 
BOARD OF TRUST FUND COMMISSIONERS 
Friday July 24, 2026  
5:00 PM-6:00PM 
Sudolnik Meeting Room, Lunenburg Public library 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting.  Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its 
hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions 
of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching 
the Zoom application.  You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or 
following the conclusion of the meeting.  
  
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the 
public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise 
required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. 
virtual attendance accordingly.  
  
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To 
Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://zoom.us/j/86144009272 
 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 86144009272 # If you have not registered with 
Zoom you will be asked for your name and e-mail address. 
  
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer 
and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
  
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a 
result of these discussions. Not all the items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may a lso be brought up for discussion to 
the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 5:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
I. OPEN•PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
II. PUBLIC COMMENT**COMMISSION 
III. TRUST REP COMMUNICATION  
1. American Legion Post 283 Fund 
Devise Ernie Sund  
IV. MEETINGS (every 2nd and 4th Thursday) 
V. TREASURER AND FINANCE 
 DIRECTOR REPORTS  
VI. NEW BUSINESS 
1. Ernie Sund Past American Legion 
Commandant Post 283 Former Trust 
Fund Chairman Clarification of Trust 
Declarations for the American Legion 
Post 283 Fund and the American legion 
Poor Fund 
2. Town Attorney meeting and Report 
regarding answer to breach Notice filed 
with the Attorney General  
3. School Department Trust Funds and 
charitable gifts issues letter titled 
“Supplemental Compliance Complaint 
and Request for Investigative Action" 
Draft Letter Review.(follow up) 
4. Meeting Minutes Ratification 
VII. OLD BUSINESS 
1. (Status update) Attorney General Notice 
of Breach for town failure to meet their 
legal obligations that triggers specific 
rights, duties, or consequences for the 
commission. 
2. (Status Update) Regarding school 
department and letter to the school 
regarding gifts and scholarships not 
within exempted authority under 
MGLA chapter 71 and Chapter 55 
1. Updates to website postings 
2. Vacancy 
3. Goals of the Commission  
4. Update on interns (ongoing) 
5. Real estate investigations (ongoing) 
6. Review rewritten risk management 
policy ratify with corrections (finalize 
and vote) 
VIII. BENEFICIARY/COMMENT 
IX. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS  
1. August 13, 2026 
X. PUBLIC COMMENT**  
PUBLIC•TREASURER/FINANCE 
DIRECTOR • COMMISSION 
XI. ADJOURN 