===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
• Dave facilitated the meeting as the Chairperson.
• Minutes from the previous meeting could not be accepted because a quorum was not present.
Operations:
• Tessa reported activity statistics from the collections to date (town participation and load trends); an average
of 29 people use the service each month - slightly higher than predicted. Trends showed increased
participation by residents in towns that conducted extra outreach activities.
• Dona expressed concern that the user fees collected may not be sufficient to cover disposal costs based on
trends to date and proposed that a price increase be considered. All agreed to set a minimum fee of $10,
compared to the current charge of $4, and to keep the half and full car rates consistent for the first year.
• Dave expressed concern that the service's association with GoDaddy, which has provocative advertising,
could reflect poorly on the Collaborative. After confirming that it is not obvious to the website user that
GoDaddy is the Internet host, attendees agreed there was no urgent need to find a different provider.
Dona confirmed that operational efficiencies eliminated the need for a load estimator (who also had
contractual concerns) and second volunteer. At this time Tessa is able to manage the activity, but there may
be need to reevaluate if she is unable to get time for on the job training for lead chemist responsibilities.
• Dona alerted attendees to the fact that Tessa's actual hours worked are higher than the number budgeted,
due to extra start-up activities that could not be delegated; both agree that the budgeted hours should be
sufficient in subsequent months. Dona also informed the OC that she continues to dedicate an average of 25
hours per month to the project and expressed constraints to continue to do so without funding. A request
was made that the OC consider allocating additional funds for both if the budget would support it.
• The OC was polled for interest in reusing paint collected; no attendees had the need. To date the amount of
used oil collected has not warranted promoting reuse.
• Dona shared an updated version of the budget/actual expenses to date with a forecast of the remaining year
for preliminary discussion. Additional details are being incorporated in the spreadsheet and will be sent for
additional review and input prior to the next meeting.
Next Steps:
• Dona and Tessa will reach out to all new member prospects during the month of November to see if the
towns are interested in joining at the start of the next fiscal year and to provide confirmation of expenses to
include in their municipal budget planning process.
Dave is pursuing a cost estimate for a metal 30 x 50 metal roof.
The operating budget for FY13 will be discussed and voted on at November meeting. Dona will create and
distribute a draft in advance for review.
Next Meeting Date is November 9. The focus will be on finalizing and voting on the annual operating
budget for next year. Please plan to attend to ensure a quorum.
