===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Devens Regional Household Hazardous Products Collection Center Approued 3/1512
Oversight Committee Meeting
January 24, 2012, 8:30-10, Devens DPW
Meeting Minutes
Attendees:
• David Blazon (Devens), Laura Caron-Gustus (Lunenburg), Jim Clyde (Littleton), Tessa David (Program
Manager), Tom Delaney (Groton), Rich Nota (Harvard), Donald Lowe (Bolton), and Andy Sheehan
(Townsend).
• Public present: Dona Neely
• Member town not represented: Ayer and Lancaster
Welcome:
• David Blazon, Chaired the Meeting.
• MOTION: Rich made the motion to accept the minutes from the December 1, 2011 meeting, David
seconded the motion and it passed unanimously.
Operations:
• Collection and Participation Results:
• Tessa recommended that Key Performance Indicators be identified and tracked. She proposed Total
Costs/Load, Revenue/Load, Average Wait Time, Attendees, Loads received and Labor cost. Members
felt this would be useful information and would be beneficial for tend analysis and presenting to
communities and residents. Tessa presented a 6 Month Waste Summary spreadsheet which detailed
categories of waste collected and highlighted six types of waste which represent 87% of the waste by
volume and 85% by cost. Two represented 53% of the waste collected, oil based paint 32% and
pesticides 21%. She also presented Load and Attendance Statistics which list participation by
community. Before closing for the winter in December participation was about 60% more than the
average to date at 72 attendees for the month.
• Tessa reported that the containers received an uneventful inspection by Fire Department and a
suppression system semi-annual test.
• Management Of Administrative Duties
• David proposed the formation of two committees, an Operation and a Finance subcommittee so the
group may better manage functions, establish group memory and back up knowledge. Rich, Laura and
Tom volunteered to be on the Operation subcommittee and Don and Andy volunteered to be on the
Finance subcommittee. Tessa will follow up with Ayer and Lancaster to see which committee they want
to participate. Don suggested that each subcommittee be chaired by the current chair and vice chair.
• The duties list included in the December 1st meeting minutes were reviewed. Dona stated that most of
the functions listed on the front page were complete and confirmed that her contract ended December
31. However, she expressed interest in volunteering and continuing involvement with the project
transition. The committee decided that the project and contracts will be managed by the Program
Manager and noted that contracts are awarded by the committee. The group next focused on the draft
on-going duties listed on the second page. David said he will assume MassDevelopement liaison duties.
The committee requested that Tessa assume the Administration, Operations and Budget duties with the
support of the subcommittees. The committee said her contract should be updated and requested that
Tessa determine duties necessary to assume these responsibilities and present time required at the next
meeting.
Motion
Andy Sheehan (Townsend): made a motion to form an Operation subcommittee and a Finance
subcommittee. Seconded by: Donald Lowe. Unanimously approved.
===PAGE 2===
Financials:
• Updated Budget Tessa recommended and presented a one page draft profit and loss spreadsheet based on
MassDevelopment Finance Department report dated 12/31/11. Members felt this would be a basic document
helpful to communicate financial position. Dona reported that not all receipts were included in the
MassDevelopment report. Dona distributed updated budget and forecasts documents and acknowledged that
documents were just completed and not yet reviewed by her and Tessa. Members requested that
collaboration be conducted to confirm complete information.
Facility:
• Roof update Dave informed the Committee that the updated cost estimate for the roof is $48,000. The
excavation and foundation work is estimated to be $3,000 to $5,000 and miscellaneous material expenses is
estimated to be $1,500. The current estimate to install a roof structure which meets new building code
requirements is $41,500. However, David also noted that a more favorable price for the structure may be
obtained through the bidding process.
• New Member Update Tessa reported that
• Ashby, John Pankosky Solid Waste Superintendent is exploring adding a warrant item for spring town
meeting or putting a line item in his budget to join the collaborative.
• Shirley, Butch Farrar BOH member is negotiating the town's trash contract in June and exploring
requesting HHW funds in the contract. He also plans to work with other department budgets such as the
Water Dept. and the Fire Dept. to identify funds for membership. He feels that spreading the cost over
two fiscal years will help.
• Pepperell Steve Themelis BOS member expressed interest & plans to continue to discuss the HHW
collaborative opportunity with the BOH chair who dismissed the program because it is not conducted in
Pepperell.
• Berlin Paul Mikelk BOH chair - PowerPoint presentation was updated by Tessa and Dona and presented
to the BOH committee on December 6" by Dona.
• Promotion
• Tessa presented at a GrotonLocal meeting 1/15/12 and at a Pepperell Rotary meeting 1/12/12
• Several news articles have promoted Devens HHW including 1/22/12 Lowell Sun article "Groton Local
"Talks Trash" (esp. Hazardous Waste) on 1/26/12 at NRWA". Tessa will be co-presenting.
MOTION: Tom made a motion to adjourn, Jim seconded the motion and it passed unanimously.
Next Meeting Dates:
• Operations subcommittee February 16, 8:30am
• Finance/budget subcommittee February 17, 8:30am
• Oversight Committee March 15, 8:30am
Submitted by Tessa David
