===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Beardmore School Comm; Matt Brenner Planning Board
The meeting convened at 6:30 pm
Chiefs Gammel and Sullivan attended in person, to share their thoughts on qualities for our next
Town Manager.
Communication, including active listening, was a central theme from both. A management style
that included collaboration, visibility, leadership, delegating to department heads, and employee
recognition. Both chiefs conveyed that employees feel overworked, stressed, and that employee
moral is low
There was a robust discussion by committee members and the chiefs on performance reviews, with
the pros and cons debated.
There were no other department heads attending in person, or remotely. Murphy read into the
record emails from Dr. Burham from the school, Sue Doherty from the Adult activity Center, and Bill
Bernard from DPW. Those emails are attached hereto.
The committee then reviewed the Solicitation proposal prepared by Julie Belliveau (Asst. Town
Manager) for hiring a recruitment firm. In section 2.0 "minimum qualifications" the committee
added that a successful candidate have conducted at least one successful search in the North
Central region of Massachusetts.
It was then agreed to postpone the next sched mtg of Sept 5, 2024 to Sept. 11, to allow for the
solicitation process to be completed. The proposal must allow two weeks for respondents to reply.
A motion to adjourn was voted and approved at 7:45
Respectfy ly submitted
Tim Murphy, Chair
===PAGE 2===
August 19, 2024
Tim Murphy
Chair
Town Manager Screen Committee
Re:
Input on Traits/Strengths of an Ideal Candidate
Dear Mr. Murphy,
Thank you for soliciting my input on the traits/strengths of an ideal candidate for Town Manager.
In my 32+ year professional carcer the best managers I have worked under had the ability to
know what is happening in cach department and not just what projects or tasks are being
completed at the timo, but also be aware of how staff were performing.
The best managers know the major details of projects and tasks, such as deadlines, anticipated
completion dates, scope of work, the role of all personnel, consultants, contractors, impact of the
project on citizens, budgets, potential cost over runs, etc. They know what the role of each staff
member is and if they are doing their job well. The best managers know who the unhappy
people are. They work to put staff in position to succeed by listening to their concerns and
finding ways to address them.
The best managers regularly solicit input from staff and take the advice of Department Heads
seriously. They are not micromanagers. They make decisions that are best for the overall
organization and explain the decision to those who disagree or are disappointed by the decision.
It is my opinion that most of the staff is overworked, underpaid, and underappreciated. Most of
the staff want the Town Manager to know what they are doing for the Town. A Town Manager
should have a way of connecting with the staff and empathizing with the concerns. This
knowledge should be used to make decisions that positively affect staff. These decisions may
not always be the most financially beneficial to the Town, but the Town cannot properly function
with a disgruntled staff. The next Town Manager will need to have the skill to retain employees
and recruit new employees. They will need the skills to work with the HR Director, the
Personnel Committee, the Department Heads, and the staff on all matters related to the Salary
Administration Plan and labor unions.
CEMETERY - HIGHWAY - SEWER
===PAGE 3===
William Be
William Bernard, Director
Lunenburg DPW
CEMETERY - HIGHWAY - SEWER
===PAGE 4===
From: Susan Doherty, Director
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Lunenburg Adult Activity Center
Thank you for inviting me to this meeting. Untortunately, I am unable to attend, but I would uke to
share my thoughts on the qualities I believe are essential for our next Town Manager.
Losing Heather Lemieux has undoubtedly been a significant challenge for our town. In these
turbulent times, this change adds another layer of complexity to our situation. It is essential that we
support our new Town Manager with respect and allow she or he to perform their duties effectively,
with the full backing of the Selectboard.
To ensure our new Town Manager is successful, the following qualities are crucial:
1. Strong Leadership: The ability to inspire and guide the team, making informed decisions
and setting a positive example for others.
2. Ethics, Integrity, and Fairness: Upholding high moral standards and treating all individuals
with fairness and honesty, fostering trust within the community and the workforce.
3. Effective Communication: Clear and open communication with both employees and the
public, ensuring transparency and understanding in all interactions.
4. Conflict Resolution Skills: The capability to address and resolve conflicts constructively,
===PAGE 5===
Sent: Fri, Aug 16, 2024 at 12:25 PM
Subject: Fw: [External] Dept Head Letter
Annie M. Aubrey
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA 01462
978-582-4144
www.lunenburgma.gov
Please be advised that the Massachusetts Secretary of State and the Massachusetts Attorney General consider e-mail to be a public
record, and therefore subject to the Massachusetts Public Records Law, M.G.L. c. 66 § 10
From: Kate Burnham <kburnham@lunenburgschools.net>
Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2024 8:01 PM
To: Anne Aubrey <aaubrey@lunenburgma.gov>
Subject: Re: [External] Dept Head Letter
Hi Annie,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input. A list of qualities and strengths listed below.
Kate
Qualities
Integrity
Humility
Empathy
Compassion
Confident
Honest
Reflective
Optimist
Respectful
Patient
Determined
Organized
Collaborative
Strengths
===PAGE 6===
Kate Burnham, Ed.D.
Superintendent
Lunenburg Public Schools
1025 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
kburnham@lunenburgschools.net
978-582-4100
On Mon, Aug 5, 2024 at 12:48 PM Anne Aubrey < aaubrey@lunenburgma.gov> wrote:
Hi All,
I placed letter in your town hall mailboxes and then realized the date in the body of the letter was incorrect,
please disregard and see attached. The Screening Committee will hold their next meeting on August 19th
6:30PM in Town Hall.
Thank you
Annie M. Aubrey
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA 01462
978-582-4144
www.lunenburgma.gov
Please be advised that the Massachusetts Secretary of State and the Massachusetts Attorney General consider e-mail to be a
public record, and therefore subject to the Massachusetts Public Records Law, M.G.L. c. 66 § 10
The Secretary of the Commonwealth has ruled that email is a public record.
The Secretary of the Commonwealth has ruled that email is a public record.
