===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting convened at 6pm ... Peter Beardmore acting as the host for zoom purposes
There were no minutes to review.
Each member gave a follow-up since the last meeting.
Alonza reported that the selectboard has hired an interim town manager
Murphy reported that the selectboard authorized up to 15k to potentially hire a recruitment firm.
Murphy reported that Ms. Lemieux has stated the process of securing a recruitment firm would
need to go through the procurement process. He reported that he spoke to Asst, Town manager
Beliveau (procurement officer). She was unable to send out the bids before her vacation, but will
do so upon her return on August 5th.
Brenner reported that he spoke to former Land Use director Burney who had positive feedback
about the recruiting firm Community Paradigm.
The committee heard from one citizen during public comment. She questioned spending up to 15k
on a recruitment firm.
The committee then interviewed Ms. Lemieux, after thanking her for attending an evening meeting
the evening before her last day of employment.
Ms. Lemieux suggested we seek someone with a strong financial background, especially with some
large future expenses. eg. building projects, to passios bldg. She opines we are in sound financial
position even though our financial director is still new
She suggests the town needs someone who can build consensus. She suggested that the next Town
Manger will need to deal with a divided board. She further stated there are two related areas of
concern going forward: retaining staff and competitive wages.
In response to a question from Brenner she agreed that we are no longer a small town. That we are
losing our "rural" status and that the next Town Manager will need to be a long term thinker.
After Lemieux the Committee met with Community Paradigm Assoc, to learn what a recruitment
firm could offer. Murphy stated that our last two successful hires came from Ads in MMA, and as
our citizen had stated earlier, why engage a firm?
Bernie Lynch and John Petrin outlined their significant experience. Since 2016 they have done 110
municipal management searches. They spoke of their network of town manager/administrators, as
===PAGE 2===
They offer to create the profile, place the Ads, recruit candidates, do background checks, and
everything necessary right up to the selectboard making a decision and negotiating a contract.
They opine the process takes 14-16 weeks, and can't be shortened by much.
Having concluded the agenda, a motion was made and seconded to adjourn at 7:29pm.
Respedtfully submitted
нитридну,
SEP O $ 2024
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
