===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, January 6, 2025 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin, Matt Proctor 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
No Minutes were approved 
 
155 ARBOR STREET 
 
Justin LeClair met with the board on behalf of the owner.  155 Arbor Street is a residence which abuts 
171 Arbor Street.  177 Arbor Street i s an old sand pit that has not be used in many years.  This is a 
potential ANR subdivision of the property for 171 Arbor Street. 
 
In 20013 the Board of Health granted a well variance for less than 50 feet to a property line for the well 
located at 155 Arbor Street.  As a part of the proposed subdivision of the abutting property, the owners 
are attempting to rectify the non-conformance and are proposing a land swap, which would increase the 
rear setback to 79.9 feet.  Additional, the owners of 177 Arbor Street are conveying a 1,429 square foot 
piece of property at abuts the side yard.  They are proposing to place a deed restriction to may this 
additional land to make this property undevelopable.  Allowing the land swap and deed restriction will 
provide a 46.5 foot undisturbed buffer to the on well located at 155 Arbor Street. 
 
The property that with potentially be divided through an ANR is 171 Arbor Street. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the 28 foot 
offset to one property line with the understanding that as a part of the ANR there will be an additional 
50 foot buffer as well as the 17 foot offset being reduced to 13 feet with the addition of a 46.5 foot buffer 
that will never be developed.  This is al l in accordance with a deed restriction that will be recorded in 
conjunction with the proposed ANR on 177 Arbor Street. 
 
All in favor. 
 
413 HOLLIS ROAD 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The existing system on this property is in 
failure and there is high groundwater.  A Presby system is proposed.   Because of the grade and the 
location of the existing pluming, a variance is required for inlet and outlet tees less than 12 inches. 
 
Variances requested are: 
 
Groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet 
The use of a Sieve Analysis 
Inlet and outlet tees 
Use of an IA system 
===PAGE 2===
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Proctor, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
43 BROWN ROAD 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure with groundwater 
at 36 inches with 6 MPI perc.  A replacement system has been designed.  Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to groundwater:   4 feet to 3 feet 
Inlet and Outlet tees 
 
After discussion and on motion Proctor and Second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in favor. 
 
499 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
 
Justin LaClair met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This property is the Pat Brody Cat Shelter.  
The owner is proposing to build a 1,000 square foot addition to include 7 new cat rooms (kennels under 
Title 5 definitions) to the shelter to provide more rooms the shelter cats.  Currently the septic system is 
designed for a three bedroom residence, 6 kennels, 5 employees and 1 surgical room. 
 
The owner of the shelter owns addition land which increases the size of the lot by 2.82 acres.  This 
additional land eliminates the need for a recirculating sand filter. 
 
What is being proposed is an increase the leach area to allow for the increase in flow.   
 
After a lengthy discussion the board advised that they would support an expansion of the existing septic 
system rather than a completely new system.  As this was an informal discussion, no vote was needed. 
 
BUDGET 
 
The Board of Health Budget as propo sed includes a 10% for Nashoba Associated Boards of Health as 
well as the contractual increase for Admin Asst. Andrea Schnepf.  All other line items remain the same. 
 
On motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the budget. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:05 pm, all in favor. 
 
 