===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 5, 2025 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Matt Proctor,  
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
March 17, 2025 and April 7, 20 25 on motion by Fortin and second by Proctor , the minutes were 
approved. 
 
52 BIRCH ISLAND WAY 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner .  This system is in failure.  This is a small lot 
with gravely soils and is served by public water.  There are no other options for a replacement system 
 
Variances requested: Offset to foundation from 10 feet to 5 feet 
   Offset to wetland from 50 feet to 18 feet 
   Two deep holes – no land available for deep hole 
   Use of an IA system 
 
A Geomat system with a Singular tank is being proposed.  The will enhance nitrogen removal from the 
effluent.  This system will require a maintenance agreement. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Proctor, the variances were approved to include 
a 2 year maintenance agreement.  All in favor. 
 
RUBBISH REGULATIONS 
 
The Lunenburg Board of Health Rubbish regulations were created at the time the Lunenburg landfill was 
closed and Lunenburg moved to rubbish collection.  The spirit of the regulations was to oversee residents 
home waste and recycling. 
 
There has been a change in the way Lunenburg now handles building permits as they have moved to an 
online program.  The application is now captu ring construction waste which was not the intent of the 
Rubbish Regulations.  Construction waste falls within the building code.  To that end 
 
On motion by Proctor and second by Fortin the board voted to have the Lunenburg rubbish regulation 
pertain only to household waste.  All in favor. 
 
TOWN COUNSEL OPEN HOURS 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Proctor, the board voted to allow Nashoba Agent Cara Olejarz access 
to Town Council open hours when necessary.  All in favor. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
142 WHITE STREET 
 
Nashoba Agent Cara Olejarz provided an update. 
 
The was an in-person hearing on Friday.  At this point in time we are at a stalemate with regard to interior 
repairs.  The owner is having difficulty gaining access to finish repairs.  Counsel has tried to intervene.  
There was discussion about filing an injunction to gain access but it was not felt that that would be 
appropriate at this time. 
 
110 BURRAGE STREET 
 
The developer’s response to our denial did not answer any of the board’s questions nor did they provide 
any further information.   Andrea Schnepf will make arrangement to sign up for counsel hours to discuss 
this matter. 
 
SHADY POINTE CAMP GROUND 
 
Shady Pointe Campground submitted their annual request for porta potties based on previous volumes. 
 
On motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the request was approved.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Proctor and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 6:15 pm, all in favor. 
 
 