===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, March 3, 2025 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin, Matt Proctor, Jim Garreffi - Nashoba 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
January 6, 2025 on motion by Fortin and second by Proctor, the minutes were approved. 
 
73 ROUND ROAD AND 57 ROUND ROAD 
 
Dan Wolfe met with the board on behalf of both owners.  Due to reduced water in their shallow wells, 
these adjoining neighbors are drilling new artesian wells and abandoning the shallow wells on the 
respective properties.  Because they are using the same w ell driller and permissio n is necessary to 
traverse 73 Round Road to access 57 Round Road, this requests are being heard together. 
 
Variances Requested: 57 Round Road offset to property line from 50 feet to 12 feet 
   73 Round Road offset to property line from 50 feet to 22 feet 
 
After review of plans and discussion, and on motion by Proctor and second by Emond, the board voted 
to approve the variance request on 57 Round Road from 50 feet to 12 feet and 73 Round Road from 50 
feet to 22 feet.  All in favor. 
 
90 YOUNGS ROAD 
 
This property has a new 2 bedroom system without variances.  Due to Title 5 Statutes, all septic systems 
that are less than 3 bedroom system require a deed restriction by voted of the board. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Proctor and second by Emond, the 2 bedroom deed restriction was 
approved.  All in favor. 
 
110 BURRAGE STREET 
 
Haley Ward, on behalf of MDO Partners, LLC, submitted a Preliminary Subdivision Plan entitled Pine 
Ridge Estates for review.  The property is located at 110 Burrage Street, which was/is owned by the 
Penniman Family and is the subject of DEP clean -up due to contamination  as well as monitor ing of 
surrounding wells for contamination. 
 
After a lengthy review by Cara Olejarz of Nashoba, Jim Garreffi of Nashoba as well as the board, and 
on motion b y Proctor and second by Fortin, the subdivision plan was denied based on the potential 
residual contamination of the property.   The board may revisit this project with more information 
provided which will need to include but not be limited to: 
 
 All DEP information, including clean-up location noted on the subdivision plan; 
 Extensive testing of the entire site; 
===PAGE 2===
 Complete DEP flies including final disposition; 
 Some narrative solution to potable water for the site. 
 
All in favor. 
 
Notes provided by Cara Olejarz, Agent, Nashoba Associated Boards of Health 
 
110 Burrage St - Subdivison 
A preliminary submission for a subdivision at the above-mentioned property has been 
submitted. I am working on potential comments for the subdivision submittal and will have 
them available for Monday’s meeting. I have attached some additional information to give 
background information on this property, including summary results of water monitoring. 
The property has a Release Tracking Number (RTN 2-15139). The property is 
approximately 56 acres. The property is associated with a release of volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs). The property was also used for sewage disposal in several sewage 
disposal pits. Two (2) of which were the focus of assessment activities are located in the 
western portion of the property. According to the Post Temporary Solution Status report, 
dated December 2024 by Cushing, Jammalo & Wheeler, Inc, the “site” is approximately 
one (1) acre of the 56-acre property. 
At some point between the late 1960’s and early 1980’s, an undetermined volume of 
“industrial waste” was disposed in one of the former sewage pits (designated as Pit No. 1). 
On November 4th, 2003, sub-surface soil samples were taken in the vicinity of pits #1 and 
#2, which revealed two (2) VOCs were detected in two (2) of the nine (9) samples above 
the reportable concentration. The VOCs identified were tetrachloroethene and 
trichloroethene. The results were 14.8 parts per million (ppm) and 10.9 ppm, respectively. 
The reportable concentrations are 0.5 ppm and 0.4 ppm, respectively. 
In 2004, sixteen (16) drums were discovered which were partially filled with an unknown 
material. These drums were removed and transported for disposal. In 2005, approximately, 
30.15 tons of drum carcasses and contact soil were transported off site for proper disposal. 
There are two monitoring wells on the property that have been tested since 2004. The last 
water tests results in 2023 were non-detect for VOCs. The wells have not been tested since 
then. 
Two properties that are served by private wells within 500 ft from 110 Burrage St agreed to 
having their water tested. Other properties within this area either declined the testing or did 
not respond. These two properties are 77 Burrage St and 131 Burrage St. The results from 
the pre and post treatment samples from 724/2023 to 10/16/2024 are attached. Most of the 
results are under the Massachusetts Maximum Contaminant Level (MMCL). There was one 
occurrence in June 2024 at 77 Burrage St where the result for trichloroethylene 
===PAGE 3===
exceeded the MMCL. These wells are being treating by a Point of Entry Treatment carbon 
filter (POET) that the owners of 110 Burrage St are providing. 
In 2021, the monitoring wells at 110 Burrage St were tested for PFAs. The total for all 
PFAS compounds detected was 20.3 which exceeds MassDEP’s GW-1 drinking water 
reportable concentration which is 20 ng/1. The monitoring well that was tested is beyond 
500 ft from all known drinking wells, so the level was not reportable. 77 Burrage St was 
also tested for PFAS, and the results were below the MMCL. 
 
CENTRAL MASS MOSQUITO CONTROL 
 
Andrea Schnepf has been in contact with Tim McGlinchy, Executive Director of Central Mass Mosquito 
Control to get a clear understanding on how member towns pay for Mosquito Control.  Mr. McGlinchy 
stated that he will contact Mass Department of Revenue to get a clear answer. 
 
The Central Mass Mosquito Control website has a YouTube presentation that provides information on 
the program and what is provided to towns and cities.  Andrea Schnepf will forward this presentation to 
the board by email. 
 
142 WHITING STREET 
 
A Stipulation is in place for the repair o f the property.  Agent Cara Olej arz reinspected the property on 
February 25, 2025.  Several violation had been corrected.  The owner stated that work was scheduled for 
repair on February 26, 2025 and will address the mold on March 4, 2025.  Additionally, a permit 
application for the porch has been submitted.  The work is currently on hold due to outstanding bills/taxes 
on a different property. 
 
The owner has reach out on several occasions regarding access issue to the property.  The occupant has 
been adamant that she needs to be present at the time of repairs.  Ms Olejarz have informed the occupant 
that this is not a requirement of the housing code.  The owner has continued to provide reasonable notice 
in an attempt to make repairs. 
 
Per recommendation by Town Council, given the progress of repairs and issues with access to the 
property, town council has reco mmended extending the stipulation another 30 days.  Town council is 
reaching out to the owner’s attorney requesting a time for the repair once the permit issued.  Ms. Olegarz 
has scheduled a reinspection for March 5, 2025. 
 
A reminder that caucus is Monday, March 10th at the high school. 
 
Board Goals and Central MA MOSQUITO CONTROL be discussed at the March 17th meeting. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Proctor and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 6:15 pm, all in favor. 
 
 