===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, July 21, 2025 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Matt Proctor, Paul Fortin, Lorraine Rudd and Nick Pirro.  Also present, Cara Olejarz 
of Nashoba 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
No minutes were approved. 
 
833 FLATT HILL ROAD 
 
Gary and Susan Ropiak, owners, met with the board.  They are proposing adding a 3 season porch to 
their home.  On reviewing the file, it was noted that the number of bedrooms as well as the total number 
of rooms are in excess of what is allowed with their 3 bedroom septic system.  The additional rooms 
were construction with the appropriate building permits. 
 
What is being requested is a 3 bedroom deed restriction be placed on the primary residence to allow 
them to move forward with a building permit for the 3 season porch. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Rudd and second by Pir ro, the approval of a three bedroom deed 
restrict was granted.  All in favor. 
 
177 BURRAGE STREET 
 
Cara Olejarz advised that someone is interested in purchasing the property at 177 Burrage Street, which 
is across the street from 110 Burrage Street and also owned by the Penniman family.  There is a trailer 
on the site as well as an existing well.  Ms. Olejarz is asking that the board require not only the standard 
well test be performed on the existing well but would also like testing for PFAS as well.  
 
After discussion and on motion by Rudd and second by Fortin, the board voted to require PFAS also be 
included in the well testing.  All in favor. 
 
143 ISLAND ROAD 
 
Marc Patacchiola, owne r, met with the board with regard to a housing order.  Mr. Patacchiola has 
repaired a majority of the violations cited but is requesting the following be considered by the board: 
 
1 Rescind requirement for a cook top; 
2 A variance in the required unobstructed light from outdoors in a bedroom; 
3 Extend time to repair downstairs shower leak; 
4 Extend time to provide home insurance paperwork. 
 
After discussion the board voted as follows: 
 
===PAGE 2===
Rescind requirement for a cooktop.  Motion by Pirro and second by Fortin.  All in favor 
 
Repair of downstairs shower.  Motion by Pirro and second by Fortin to extend time to repair for 60 days.  
All in favor. 
 
Reduced light in a bedroom.  Motion by Rudd and second by Pir ro to grant variance until the property 
is unoccupied.  All in favor. 
 
Home insurance paperwork.  Motion by Fortin and second by Pirro to grant extension indefinitely.  All 
in favor. 
 
110 FIRE ROAD 12 
 
An anonymous complain was received with regard to the above address.  The complaint included and 
statement about a possible unlicensed camp ground.  Matt Proctor was to the property within the past 
months and did not see anything.  Other member of the board live on Lake Shirley and will check into 
this.  No action to be taken by the board at this time. 
  
 
Having no further business and on motion by Rudd and second by Proctor the meeting was adjourned at 
6:00 pm.  All in favor. 