===PAGE 61===
Two members of PACC resigned during FY25; Paul Sarapas and Pete Lincoln, leaving two vacancies on the 
committee.  Brian Vienneau joined the committee as the fourth member at the end of FY25.  There is one 
vacancy remaining. 
 
Programming 
 
CH8 – Government 
Most content on the Government Channel (Ch8) is locally broadcasted meetings.  In addition to several live 
weekly municipal meetings and re-broadcasts, other government programs downloaded from MassAccess 
MMX (massaccess.telvue.com), include Massachusetts State Agency PSA’s and programs of a political 
nature.   
 
There was an increase in local government meetings being recorded and uploaded to the government and 
YouTube channels, including the newly formed Trust Funds Committee, School Committee’s Superintendent 
Interview special meetings, Council on Aging, Stormwater Task Force, Economic Development Committee 
and special forums with the Master Plan Steering Committee. 
 
PAC produced “Talk of the Town” program in FY25, which is an interview program featuring the Town 
Manager.  This show airs on both the Government channel (Channel 8) and the Public Channel (Channel9).  
“Talk of the Town” is in the process of being revamped for FY26. 
 
Government meetings are recorded at the request of board/committee members and reviewed by PAC.  PAC 
makes every effort to accommodate requests based on availability.  Meetings are recorded and scheduled to 
rebroadcast on Ch8 and uploaded to the PAC’s YouTube Channel.  These YouTube meetings can be watched 
and/or downloaded at the convenience of viewers.  The number of rebroadcast meetings on Ch8 is over 150 
hours per month.  Rebroadcast meeting hours fluctuate depending on the time of year and number of meetings.   
 
CH9 – Public 
 
Public Access Cable (PAC) produced 75% of the local programming on Ch9 in FY25, down 3% from FY24.  
The total number of Public (Ch9) programs, both local and AccessShare (outside resources), decreased from 
125 in FY24 to 80 programs in FY25 resulting in a decrease of overall programs of 36 %.  This decrease in 
Ch9 programs was due to the growth of government recordings, a reduction of videographers and the transfer 
of LHS sports from Public Channel (Ch9) to the Educational Channel (Ch22). 
 
Sixty (75%) local programs included presentations, band concerts and featured projects. The remaining 20 
(25%) programs were obtained through shared media sources. 
 
 
 
Several categories of local programming were aired on Public Ch9. Among the top programs were 
Informational (31%), Events (25%), and Entertainment (32%), making up the majority of Ch9 programming 
(see chart below). 
 
6%
19%
Local 
Productions…
57
===PAGE 62===
Two of the top three program categories, Informational and Events (56%) provided viewers with presentations 
and overviews that helped to familiarize them with resources and information, as well as current events 
happening around town.  
 
 
 
Locally produced programs and government meetings are available on the LunenburgAccess YouTube 
Channel.  http://www.youtube.com/LunenburgAccess 
 
Links to the YouTube channel for local Ch9 programs can be found on Lunenburg Public Access’ Facebook 
Page https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable 
 
CH22 – Educational 
 
In May of FY20, PAC added an Educational Channel, Comcast Channel 22.  The additional channel has 
allowed PAC to feature local educational content to viewers in addition to the bi-monthly School Committee 
meetings.   
 
Many programs are shared between Channel 9 (Public) and Channel 22.  As of FY25, most of the channel’s 
content remains to be LHS sports, school events and concerts, as well as, downloaded resources such as 
“Democracy NOW” and “Kim’s Art Show.”  Other shows added to the channel have an educational or 
entertainment component to them, including “Wicked Good Food” and “Health Matters.” 
 
While it is optimal to receive programming from the local schools, PAC frequently subsidizes local 
programming with imported resources.  School Committee meetings, shared between Gov’t. (Ch8) and 
Educational (Ch22), airs frequently for the viewers convenience.  Other school events are recorded, often with 
the use of multiple cameras, as they occur throughout the year. 
  
“Lunenburg Storytime – The Books We Love” produced by PAC airs twice daily on Ch22 as an anchor of this 
channel.  Storytime has experienced tremendous popularity amongst residents as well as other media centers 
on the MMX database.  Community volunteers read children’s books in studio recorded monthly for 
broadcast.   
 
PAC continues to work toward content growth on all channels. 
 
As a member of the MassAccess organization, 
PAC is given access to the Telvue Connect 
(massaccess.telvue.com) (MMX) database for 
sharing productions of both state and 
nationwide programming.  Many shows downloaded and aired on Channel 9 and Ch22 are sourced from this 
outlet. 
Informati…
Even…
Entertainme…
Ch9 Program 
Categories
58
===PAGE 63===
In FY20, PAC began sharing their own locally produced programs with the MassAccess Telvue Connect 
content database, or MMX.  The results were outstanding!  PAC now has 108 affiliates on the database and 
growing.  The PAC produced programs uploaded by media centers are “Movie Talk”, “Talkin’ Baseball” and 
“Storytime – The Books We Love.”  These programs are downloaded and aired by over 85 affiliates around 
the country.  Most stations that downloaded our programs are in Massachusetts but reach as far as California.  
We are
 delighted to showcase programs to the community while using the MMX database to add to PAC 
content.  A Catholic Mass out of Burlington, VT is downloaded to air weekly on Ch9, as well as, a sports 
podcast from Boston.  PAC strives to increase local content, however, these types of programs integrate well 
into the schedule by helping to fulfill our commitment to the community.     
In addit
ion to MassAccess Telvue (MMX) downloads, PAC also receives local programs from nearby access 
stations that air on Ch9, including “Barbara and You” and Chess Chat from Fitchburg Access Television 
(FATV). 
Studio an
d Equipment 
PAC has
 had studio space in the TC Passios school since 2013.  We encourage the public to take advantage of 
the facilities and equipment offered for creative productions. The PAC manager also supports various town 
departments in the use of public access’ resources for their communication needs. 
In FY25 P
AC completed the upgrade of the audio system in the Bilotta Room at Town Hall with a Symetrix 
system.  This improvement was paid for through ARPA funding.  The speaker system was replaced and the 
control room upgraded with a tablet-based control panel for audio administration. 
The audio quality now experienced at meetings has been remarkable and has exceeded expectations.  
The studio has continued to experience the benefits of the FY24 upgrades, including the new switcher and 
cameras.  In FY25, PAC has added more lighting kits, portable wireless microphones and new and reused 
furniture for the set.  Many organizations have taken advantage of the studio using it for purposes such as 
event announcements. 
Staff 
In 
FY25, there was one full-time Manager, a Production Technician, 5 part-time videographers and a part-time 
contracted Bulletin Administrator.  One videographer resigned, leaving 2 vacancies in the organization. One 
videographer was hired to fill the open position at the end of FY25, leaving one open videographer position 
for FY26.  
The PAC Manager administers the day-to-day operation of the organization, including all production and 
programming schedules, staff scheduling, equipment and services procurement, social media and equipment 
and system troubleshooting.  Videographers provide video recording of government meetings and are 
available for local video assignments and projects.   
The Production Technician manages the day-to-day operations of the studio and assists the videographers with 
training and equipment needs.  Reporting to the Manager, he provides technical assistance for production and 
studio support.  The team relies on the Production Technician to oversee and assist with troubleshooting issues 
that arise.  He also advises on new equipment and supervises set up and administration of large productions. 
PAC’s 5 Videographers work 2-10 hours per week recording board and committee meetings, sports, events 
and special projects.  They work “in the field” as well as in the studio producing such shows as “Talkin’ 
Baseball” and “Movie Talk.”  The staff responds to recording requests from town officials and management on 
59
===PAGE 64===
a regular basis and help cover larger productions such as the LHS home football games and Town Meetings, 
resulting in high quality 4 camera productions. 
 
Videographer coverage has been entered in Google Calendar since FY25, which streamlines the scheduling 
process.  A calendar link is sent to the staff at the end of the month listing their upcoming assignments and is 
available for all videographers to access.  Dates for coverage are assigned and automatic reminders are sent 
out 2 days before an event to the videographer’s email.   
 
PAC is always looking for producers.  If a community member has a special skill or interest, PAC will help 
make the show happen.  Our studio and staff are equipped to assist new producers in video production. 
 
Financials 
 
PAC receives its income from Comcast in quarterly payments (received August, November, February and 
May) and monthly interest payments deposited into the Enterprise Fund. The overall revenue received for 
FY25 from Comcast was $180,792 a decrease from the previous year’s $ 192,954 (6.3% reduction).  The 
budget starting balance was set at $208,772 for FY25 projected expenses and capital costs. 
 
FY25 REVENUE vs EXPENSES 
Revenue (from 
Comcast) $180,792 
Enterprise Fund 
Interest $  46,343 
Investment Interest $  35,430 
Subtotal $262,565 
Expenses $178,140 
Beginning Balance $208,772 
Ending Balance $  30,632 
 
 
FY25 LINE ITEMS AS A PERCENTAGE 
Line Item Expenses 
% of 
Expense 
Salaries $98,868.97 55.50% 
Purchase of 
Services     $633.50 0.36% 
Consultant $40.00 0.02% 
Lease $6,000.00 3.37% 
Office Supls $0.00 0.00% 
Advertising $0.00 0.00% 
Equip/Maint $7,156.03 4.02% 
New Equip $0.00 0.00% 
Videographers $37,512.50 21.06% 
Indirect Costs $27,929.97 15.68% 
Vendor 
Expenses $0.00 0.00% 
60
===PAGE 65===
Total $178,140.97 100.00% 
Summary 
P
AC experienced a significant decrease in Public Channel (Ch9) growth in FY25.  There were several 
reasons for the decline, including videographer’s hours and an increase in government meetings.  LHS 
sports were moved from Ch9 to the Educational Channel (Ch22) for the year, resulting in the decrease of 
public programming.  However, with careful planning and full videographer staff, PAC’s goal is to surpass 
FY25 growth in FY26. 
PAC offers more informational, entertainment and event category programs to the community.  These 
programs are popular on our stations, as well as on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel.  Viewers are 
able to access a wide variety of shows, including concerts and LHS sports.  Content has been created with 
minimal staff, as videographers juggled multiple commitments to deliver local programming. 
While our shared PAC programming on MassAccess’ MMX database steadily grew in popularity, PAC’s 
local programming experienced a declined.  The MMX database content uploaded for sharing, include our 
popular featured PAC produced programs.  These shows are a strong representation of PAC’s ability to 
create quality content in the upgraded studio. The Educational Channel (Ch22) programming remains at a 
consistent rate of growth, while Government (Ch8) has increased with the addition of committee/board 
meetings.     
PAC staff is the core of the group.  The team is supportive and dedicated to the goals of the organization.  
Videographers are always learning new skills and training on new equipment.  They also continually cover 
hybrid board and committee meetings as requested without hesitation.  There are currently over 20 board 
and committee meetings that are recorded either through Zoom or in hybrid mode.  While often short 
staffed, PAC videographers have managed to keep up with government recordings and local shows of 
interest. 
Salaries 55%
Videographe
rs
21%
Indirect Costs 15%
Salaries Purchase of Services Lease
Equip/Maint New Equip Videographers
Indirect Costs
61
===PAGE 66===
Funding from Comcast has been declining each quarter, however PAC is able to continue operations at a 
high level. Although the funding is limited, PAC has strategically drawn on available resources to continue 
coverage of important meetings and events.   
Won’t you join us as a producer or volunteer?   
PAC’s supportive staff offers production assistance, making it easy to produce your own show. Our 
community is thriving with talented and creative individuals – now is your time to shine!  If producing 
doesn’t appeal to you, then consider “behind the camera” options.  Become a volunteer. Volunteers are the 
“life blood” of media centers around the state, and without that involvement PAC will not be able to grow.  
Consider volunteering to help provide the necessary resources needed for PAC’s continued success.   
 
We need you! 
Jo Toale, Manager 
617-763-3018 
jtoale@lunenburgma.gov 
pac@lunenburgma.gov  
 
SENIOR PROPERTY TAX WORK-OFF PROGRAM 
JANUARY 1, 2025 – NOVEMBER 1, 2025 
 
The Senior Property Tax Work-Off Committee is administered by the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director. 
 
What is the Senior Property Tax Work-Off? 
 
The Senior Property Tax Work-Off Program offers income eligible senior citizens age 60+ an opportunity to 
have an abatement applied to their property tax bill. Participants work in various town departments doing jobs 
such as general office work, custodial, library shelving, meals on wheels, school assistance, etc., to earn the tax 
abatement. 
 
The 2025 tax abatement maximum is $1,500 and applied to the participant’s 3rd quarter real estate tax bill. 
 
The current hourly rate is $15.00 per hour. 
 
Eligibility Requirements 
 
· Applicants must be 60 years of age or older 
· Must occupy and be the owner of the property as of July 1st 
· Receive a property tax bill in their name or their spouse’s name (60 years+) 
· Meet the income guidelines of (proof of income is required): 
     one person household - $50,000  
     two person household - $75,000 
 · All new applicants are required to have a CORI background check 
 · Earnings are exempt from state taxes 
· Earnings are subject to OBRA if participants are not receiving a pension from either    
  Worcester Regional Retirement or Massachusetts State Teachers Retirement 
· Final amount earned will be applied to the 3rd quarter real estate tax  
· All Property Tax Workers must re-apply and be accepted annually for participation in the  
  program 
  
62
===PAGE 67===
2025 Participation 
 
During 2025, there were six residents who participated in the Program in the following departments: 
· Council on Aging 
· Public Library                
· Tax Collector 
· Assessors                                               
· Sewer 
 
These individuals as a whole, accumulated 293.75 hours amounting to $4,406.25, before deductions, in real 
estate tax abatements.  
  
 
SEWER COMMISSION 
 
The Sewer Commission bears the responsibility of overseeing the Sewer Enterprise Fund, planning for the 
future, and developing and implementing rules, regulations, and policies. Under the Town’s Charter, 
responsibility for the day-to-day operation, care and maintenance of the sanitary sewers are under the 
supervision of the Town Manager who delegates the responsibility to manage and maintain the operational side 
of the system to the Department of Public Works’ Director. The Town of Lunenburg does not operate a sewer 
treatment plant. Approximately 89% of Lunenburg sewer is discharged to the City of Leominster, and the other 
11% is discharged to the City of Fitchburg. 
 
The Sewer Commission started FY25 with the following members: John Reynolds-Chair, Brett Ramsden-Vice 
Chair, and Mike Mackin as Clerk.  At the end of August, John Reynolds stepped down from the Commission, 
leaving only 2 members. A mailing was sent out to all sewer customers, seeking new members. Four men 
applied and three new commissioners started on 9/24/24. With a full board, the Commission reorganized with 
Mike Mackin (Chair), Brett Ramsden (Vice Chair), Scott Dall (Clerk) and members Joe Hurley and Eli Torres. 
In early 2025 Mike Mackin and Eli Torres left the Commission but were replaced in May by Dan Proctor and 
Arthur Katis.   
 
At the end of August 2024, Paula Bertram resigned as Sewer Business Manager and it was several months 
before a replacement was found.  In the meantime, DPW Director Bill Bernard stepped in as acting Business 
Manager, in addition to running the DPW, and Paula consulted part-time assisting Bill with quarterly billing 
plus other tasks.  Andrew Valliere was hired in January 2025 and quickly learned the job with some training 
from Paula.  During all this transition, there were still multiple issues with doing the billing on Munis.  Outside 
consultants were brought in to enable the bills to go out relatively on time.  To Andrew’s credit, he persevered 
through some tough billing cycles and found ways to deal with the Munis issues. In May 2025, Susan Sullivan 
was hired as Assistant Sewer Business Manager.     
 
Currently there are 1,226 properties connected to the Lunenburg system and another 270 which have access to 
Town Sewer but are not yet connected. During FY25, 14 new accounts connected to Town Sewer. The 
Commission billed out $1,187,341.09 in quarterly sewer bills and $67,187.77 went to owners’ December 2024 
FY25 tax bills for non-payment of sewer charges. The delinquency rate has been averaging 18% and continues 
to be an issue.  
 
The Commission received $100,000 in ARPA funds for repairs to manholes that are allowing clean water to 
enter the system as I/I (Inflow & Infiltration).  The Manhole Repair IFB went out in September 2024 and the 
contract was awarded to Insituform Technologies for replacement of frames and covers, along with repairs to 
the inside of some manholes.  Due to various delays, work was scheduled to begin in July 2025.   
 
Major repair projects were completed in FY25 at the Mass 1 and Dana Street pump stations by our maintenance 
63
===PAGE 68===
contractor (CTE) and sub-contractor Pride Environmental.  The repair at Mass 1 involved replacing a rotting 
pipe under the station, repairing suction lines and replacing the gate valves at a cost of $98,000. The work was 
completed in November 2024. The Dana Street station is the main pump station that most of the waste goes 
through. It also had some rotting pipes that needed replacement similar to Mass 1 and the project was scheduled 
for the end of June 2025 at an estimated cost of $123,600.  As the pump stations are approaching 20 years of 
use, these projects will protect the stations from very costly emergency repairs.   
 
As in FY24, clogs in the pump stations continued to be a major concern. The Commission sent out reminders to 
users and placed notices in the Lunenburg Ledger noting how important it is to only flush waste and toilet paper 
down the system. Clogs jam the pumps and can cause costly repairs, which can impact sewer costs.  
 
At the 5/3/25 Annual Town Meeting, the Commission put forward 4 articles. The FY26 budget article 
appropriated $1,886,150.22 from anticipated Sewer Enterprise receipts of $1,583,917.45 and $302,232.77 from 
Retained Earnings to balance the budget. The second article transferred monies to the Capital Reserve 
Stabilization Fund in the amount of $5,133.15. The third warrant article transferred $19,104.40 into the Sewer 
Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund used for mitigating I/I from entering the system. The fourth article 
transferred the sum of $1,545.00 into the OPEB Sewer Trust Fund. All four articles passed at Town Meeting. 
 
Prior to the end of FY25, the Commission discussed drawing up guidelines and a fee structure for proposed 
ADUs (Accessory Dwelling Units). Many of these units are being proposed and the Commission will be 
working with Town Counsel to incorporate changes into the by-laws in FY26.   
 
Sewer Commission as of report submittal (Feb 2026): 
Brett Ramsden, Chair 
Scott Dall, Vice-Chair 
Dan Proctor, Clerk 
Arthur Katis, Member 
 
 
VETERANS’ SERVICES 
 
Massachusetts leads the way in taking care of Veterans because only in MA, is there a Veterans Service 
Officers in every Town, either Full Time (Population over 12,000) or Part Time.   
 
Also, MA is the only State that offers Chapter 115 Benefits to its Veterans, Veterans families, or widows who 
qualify, can be provided this monthly financial assistance, which are reimbursements for specific living 
expenses such as heating fuel, medical care, and pharmacy co-payments.   
 
This Veteran Agent is State Certified by the Department of Veterans Affairs, so this Veteran Agent is an 
authorized representative, to process and file VA claims for Veterans benefits. 
 
Some other examples of Veterans’ Service Office assistance services include: 
 
--Assistance obtaining military service records 
--Housing assistance, including Veterans Shelters and Veterans Homes  
--Payments of “Welcome Home” bonuses for deployed Veterans  
--Assistance obtaining certain Massachusetts automobile and motorcycle license plates  
--Employment assistance  
--Property tax exemptions  
--Tax Exempt State Annuities for parents or spouses of those killed in Action or those who are 100% disabled.  
64
===PAGE 69===
--Burial Assistance   
 
During FY25 (July 1, 2024- June 30, 2025), Lunenburg started serving 5 recipients on Chapter 115 Benefits and 
ended with serving 7 recipients (Veterans, Families, or Widows) per month. Lunenburg paid out $50,323.27 in 
benefits, which is on average $4,193.61 per month. Lunenburg was reimbursed $38,283.61 by State, which is 
the maximum allowable 75% share. 
 
This Veteran Agent is located at the Ritter Building, 960 Massachusetts Ave. Office hours are Thursdays, 9:00 
AM thru 12:00 PM.  
 
If you are a Veteran, Family of a Veteran or know a Veteran, Please contact me at:  
mdurkee@Lunenburgma.gov, or 978-400-1938.  
 
Thank you,  
Michelle Durkee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65
===PAGE 70===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROTECTION OF PERSONS  
& PROPERTY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66
===PAGE 71===
BOARD OF HEALTH 
 
The Board of Health Office is located in the old Ritter Library building on the corner of Mass. Ave and 
Leominster Road.  Our office is on the upper level at the end of the hall on the right.  We can be reached at 978-
345-4146, extension 430.  
 
The Board of Health, with the assistance of its Agent, the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health, continued its 
mission to maintain its focus on public health and safety issues during 2025, reviewing Title  V Inspection 
Reports, building permits, septic and well permits, nuisance investigations, housing inspections, complaints and 
general public health related issues as well as resident concerns.    
 
In addition, our local Board continued to be tasked with responding to emerging health responsibilities.  The Board 
of Health assisted residents and businesses in understanding ever changing guidance and compliance with those 
orders.  We continued to conducted compliance checks and responded to complaints.  Through Nashoba Associated 
Boards of Health, vaccine clinics are held.   
 
Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness P lanning is ongoing.  Meetings continue between our agents, 
other Town Departments and regional entities to develop a plan for not only Lunenburg but with our partner 
towns in our region.   
 
This year, we processed applications for Septic Permit Lot Tests, permits for new construction, new wells, 
repairs or upgrades to septic systems, well permits and food service permits.  The Board continues its vigilance 
with regard to septic systems, wells, food service inspections, housing and nuisance complaints and its general 
mandate to protect the environment and groundwater of the Commonwealth.   
 
The Board of Health provides numerous other services in cooperation with our Health Agents, the Nashoba 
Associated Boards of Health. This year, clinics provided our residents with inoculations for Flu as well as 
Senior well adult clinics.  
 
The Town of Lunenburg participates in the Central Mass. Mosquito Control Project.  Mosquito Control 
monitors the mosquito population in Lunenburg and advises of any potential diseases such as EEE and West 
Nile Virus and sprays frequently to control the population during the warmer times of the year.  Residents who 
want to have their property sprayed can do so by emailing to:  cmmcp@cmmcp.org , calling (508) 393-3055, 
completing a request on their webpage at:  http://www.cmmcp.org, or calling the Board of Health office.  This 
service is free of charge to residents. 
 
Please contact our office in the Ritter Building for more information.     
 
Please remember that our Board Members volunteer their time and efforts on behalf of you, the Citizens of 
Lunenburg. If you have something that you think we can help you with, we are at your service. Contact the 
Board office at 582-4146 ext. 430.    
 
 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health continues to serve the Lunenburg Board of Health in meeting the challenges 
of environmental and public health needs in your community.  
 
In 2025, the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health (NABH) continued to advance regional public health through 
the ongoing support of two key grants: the Public Health Excellence (PHE) Grant and the Contact Tracing and 
Case Investigation (CT/CI) Grant.  
 
67
===PAGE 72===
The PHE Grant has enabled the onboarding of staff over time, including two Health Agents, an 
Education/Communication Specialist, and part- time staff to help with food inspections and manage the grant; the 
CT/CI Grant has further supported NABH by funding a full-time Public Health Nurse.  Staff provided by these 
grants have enhanced NABH’s ability to provide inspections, community outreach, and health education, fostering 
a more robust and adaptable public health infrastructure across participating municipalities.  
 
In response to the closure of the Nashoba Valley Health Center and the Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health’s new public health services delivery model, Foundational Public Health Service (FPHS), the Association 
contracted for a Community Health Needs Assessment (CHNA) to better understand the needs of our community; 
the contractor delivered their report at the end of December. The work was made possible by the CT/CI Grant. 
 
Together, these grants have strengthened NABH’s ability to meet evolving community needs, improving disease 
surveillance, emergency preparedness, and equitable access to high-quality public health services. Through a 
collaborative and resource-sharing approach, NABH has built a resilient and modern public health system that 
continues to effectively serve all member communities.  
 
Environmental Health Department 
 
The Nashoba Sanitarian serving your community is always available at our Ayer office and has regular hours in the 
Town Hall to serve your residents and work with your Town Hall staff. 
 
Food Service Licensing and Inspections (64)        
This office licenses, inspects, responds to complaints and conducts follow-up on concerns in licensed operations.  
Our staff review plans for new/renovated facilities to ensure they are constructed in accordance with the Food 
Code. 
 
Recreational Permitting and Inspections (11)       
This office licenses, inspects and responds to complaints regarding recreational camps for children, bathing beaches 
and public and semi-public pools.  We sample bathing beaches weekly, providing the results to community partners to 
ensure swimming only occurs at the public and semi-public beaches which meet State regulations. 
 
Housing & Nuisance Investigation (27)        
This office inspects dwelling units for compliance with the State Sanitary Code upon complaints, and prior to 
occupancy.  We issue orders to affect corrective actions, reinspect, and initiate legal action if necessary.  Similarly, 
complaints from residents concerning unsanitary conditions, environmental concerns and/or pollution are 
investigated and actions taken as required. 
 
Title 5 related work – On-site Sewage Disposal 
We received 83  applications for soil testing (testing necessary for the design of a sewage disposal system) and 
witnessed 158 tests performed (perc tests and soil evaluation holes). We have received 49 applications for sewage 
disposal systems and reviewed 32 plans for new and replacement systems.       
Our office has prepared 34 sewage disposal system permits for the Board’s review and approval: 15 for new 
construction and 19 for the replacement of failed systems. We conducted 92 inspections during the construction of 
sewage disposal systems. 
 
We provide consultation to your residents on matters relating to sewage disposal systems (operations, inspection 
and expansion (including the proposed accessory dwelling units (ADU)).  As part of this work, we reviewed 86  
Title 5 inspection reports. 
 
Private Wells 
We reviewed water quality and quantity reports and interpreted the results for your residents.  As water quality 
awareness has increased, we have assisted communities with systematic water testing programs (generally upon 
68
===PAGE 73===
property transfer); providing consultation and direction on how to comply with local requirements. 
 
Private wells are regulated by local regulation, and we issued 17 permits for new and replacement private water 
supply wells.     
 
Rabies Clinics 
The number of residents attending our community clinics has dropped.  Understanding the importance of service, 
we have offered regional clinics to ensure convenient access to a clinic.   
   
Community Health Nursing 
  
Nashoba’s Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health service to its member 
communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) Standards of Public Nursing Practice.  Our 
nursing team underwent significant changes this year, a retirement and staff moving to new positions.  As of the 
end of 2025 the nursing team has been rebuilt, and we are working quickly to restore services while remaining 
adaptable to changes requested by our member communities and to meet the obligations outlined in the FPHS. 
Town Nurse Hours were “on pause” July through December 2025 while we re-built our public health nursing 
team. During this time, the core, State-mandated communicable disease case investigation and reporting 
continued. 
The Nashoba nursing team reviewed, investigated and reported on all mandated communicable and infectious 
diseases (including respiratory diseases) while working closely with the Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health’s (MDPH) epidemiology team. Though this daily reporting and investigation work is not always visible, 
it is vital to protect the public from the spread of disease and includes: 
• Working with MDPH and local Boards of Health to identify and manage clusters of disease/exposures in 
the district.  
• Working with school nurses and childcare providers in the district to provide information, offer advice 
and support. 
• In conjunction with our Health Agents, we work with individuals in challenging living conditions 
(unsanitary, hoarded) to facilitate services to mitigate situations which would allow an individual to 
remain in their home. 
• We work with Councils on Aging, community outreach workers and other staff in town to help residents 
find services they need. 
Communicable Disease Number of Cases investigated: 
 
 Calicivirus/Norovirus .................................................. 5 
 Hepatitis C ................................................................... 1 
 Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis ........................... 4 
 Influenza ...................................................................... 136 
 Novel Coronavirus (SARS, MERS, etc) .................... 59 
 Salmonellosis .............................................................. 1 
 Streptococcus pneumoniae ......................................... 1 
 
The Nashoba nursing staff provided monitoring and guidance to travelers and residents testing positive for TB 
infection (not contagious) throughout the district this calendar year and have also been managing 2 active TB 
cases in the District during 2025.   The towns in the Nashoba District fall into a LOW RISK TB category (as 
defined by MDPH). 
 
In addition to the mandated disease surveillance and reporting, our staff serves as a resource to the community, 
69
===PAGE 74===
addressing questions and concerns from the public on a variety of health and safety issues (immunizations, head 
lice, chronic disease management, safe drug/sharps disposal etc.) in a variety of ways including:  
• Monthly town nurse hours were offered from January through June 2025 and were “paused” July 
through December while we rebuilt our Public Health Nursing team. Nashoba nursing staff conducted 
town nurse hour events this year, including 6 in Lunenburg (including the regional flu clinic). Town 
nurse hours include an opportunity for blood pressure checks, diet/nutrition information and teaching, 
medication review, and assistance with identifying and coordinating community resources and referral 
as needed.  
• In 2025 we partnered with local pharmacies to offer our seasonal vaccine clinics, expanding vaccine 
availability with COVID and RSV vaccines in addition to influenza and preserving local public health 
funding and capacity.  In collaboration with these pharmacies, we conducted 11 vaccine clinics 
throughout the district vaccinating 1019 attendees and providing 1,498 vaccines.  
• The nurses are available to make home visits to make general assessments, assist with coordinating care 
and services, provide support/teaching and make referrals to other local community resources.  Our 
nurses made twenty-one home visits and received twenty-eight resident calls. 
• Nashoba has offered community outreach and educational programs covering topics such as disease 
prevention, chronic disease management, emergency preparedness, mental health awareness, and overall 
wellness.  We continued to offer grief support group availability. 
• Nashoba staff attend and regularly participate in collaborative meetings, trainings, and conferences to 
keep current with the latest developments in local public health.  
• Nashoba staff facilitated several meetings with key stakeholder groups to promote partnership, 
encourage strong regional communication, and foster working relationships.  This has helped to identify 
common goals and guide future public health initiatives and outreach. 
 
Community Health- Communications and Public Health Education Summary, 2025 
The Public Health Educator/Communications Specialist (PHE/CS) role has continued to evolve since its 
inception in Sept 2021 to best support the needs of the district. In the past year, the PHE/CS has been 
communicating timely and relevant public health information to towns and stakeholders and providing 
educational opportunities across the district with a social determinants of health (SDOH) lens.  This work has 
included: 
• Providing community educational opportunities to residents both independently and collaboratively with 
the PH nursing team based on community need- Harm reduction, emergency preparedness, positive 
aging, etc. 
• Serving as project lead for a community health assessment from June to December, integrating 
contractor management, stakeholder engagement, communications, marketing, and logistical planning 
• Partnering with CHNA9 and THFCM to launch a local Nashoba Health Equity Micro-Coalition 
supported by the NABH Shared Services Coordinator 
• Maintaining up-to-date distribution lists, communicating within the district via channels such as 
quarterly newsletters, regular email updates, etc. pertaining to public health news, information, and 
events such as vaccine and rabies clinics.  Continuing to explore and evaluate communication methods 
to reach as many community members as possible.   
• Maintaining social media presence to reach more people in district with current, relevant, and seasonal 
public health information.  Serving as a resource for community members with public health related 
questions across a broad range of topics 
• Overseeing and administering a grant and donation-funded community grief support program 
70
===PAGE 75===
• Offering and instructing adult mental health first aid certification courses for municipal staff, community 
volunteers, and other groups serving NABH region residents 
• Providing education and advocacy related to harm reduction, treatment and de-stigmatization of 
substance use disorder 
• Serving on the Governor’s Nashoba Valley Health Planning Working Group to identify data and 
community-driven local priorities for closing critical healthcare gaps 
• Organizing technical assistance and resource-sharing meetings for municipalities related to opioid 
abatement settlement funds, with a fully executed IMA between 7 towns realized in 2025 
• Collaborating with the new Shared Services Coordinator to maximize resources and identify 
opportunities for capacity building 
• Building and maintaining relationships with stakeholders through meetings and attending community 
events to represent NABH 
• Serving as the primary administrator for NABH’s annual vaccine clinics in our first year partnering with 
a pharmacy 
• Attending trainings with an emphasis on health equity and public health service regionalization.  
• PHE/CS has utilized an SDOH lens to identify health inequities that most impact the NABH region to 
focus efforts and collaborate with community partners to lessen these gaps. 
• Developing educational and communications materials for district and individual towns by request 
including print, electronic, presentation, and TV/news media materials.  Publishing the first NABH 
regional Annual Report document 
• Maintaining and improving upon NABH website to keep info relevant and accessible 
• Co-organizing events to facilitate the exchange of information such as a springtime Social Services 
Networking Fair 
 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are dedicated to 
providing the highest quality, most cost-effective fire, and emergency medical services to the citizens of the town 
of Lunenburg. 
 
In 2025, your Fire Department responded to 2006 calls for service, which broke down as follows:  
 
Fires, Alarms & Hazardous Conditions        387 
Emergency Medical                                        1233 
Inspections 320 
Other 29 
 
This level of activity was similar to 2024, with a slight decrease in fires, alarms and hazardous conditions, but 
an increase in EMS responses.  The closure of Nashoba Valley Medical Center continues to strain the Region’s 
EMS Services.  Ambulances traveling to distant hospitals or “holding the wall” waiting for a bed locally have 
resulted in increased out of service times for all services in the area.  For our Department, this has resulted in a 
36% increase in mutual aid EMS responses and an average of 15 additional minutes in turnaround time for an 
ambulance to become available.  It is not uncommon for one of the ambulances to be “holding the wall” in the 
local Emergency Department for 20 minutes or more waiting for a bed. 
 
The Department consists of 10 Career and 30- 35 On Call/Per Diem Firefighters and Emergency Medical 
Technicians, plus a full -time Administrative Assistant. The Station is staffed by three Firefighter/EMT’s or 
Paramedics. This coverage is provided by a combination of our Career Staff and Per Diem Firefighters. The 
71
===PAGE 76===
greatest issue we continue to confront is having enough part time staff to cover the 96 hours of Per Diem 
coverage each week.  This is particularly true of having enough Part time Firefighter/Paramedics.  The addition 
of a 4
th shift of 3 Firefighter/Paramedics is critical to our future operations.  This would allow Career Staff to 
cover 7 days per week, not 6.  This would improve working conditions for our staff and decrease the amount of 
forced overtime we are experiencing.  The Per diem coverage could then be reallocated to assist with staffing 
our second ambulance for much of the week.  This is a concern that is coming to the forefront with increasing 
numbers of ambulance calls and longer transport and turnaround times at hospitals.  In 2025 we had to rely on 
mutual aid 65 times for a mutual aid ambulance.  This was due to either insufficient staffing to cover the second 
ambulance, an ambulance being out of service or both ambulances were already on calls. 
 
Staffing the Station with dual trained Fire/EMS personnel ensures that we are prepared to respond to whatever 
emergency occurs. As many calls require more personnel than are on duty, we continue to rely heavily on the 
dedication and commitment of our On Call Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians.   
 
The Department’s Paramedic Program is now in its third year.  Having this level of service in- house allows us 
to provide advanced level EMS care to our residents and not draw on resources from other communities.  Of the 
Staff on Duty, One-two are always Firefighter/Paramedics. Paramedic training is more than two thousand hours 
and requires anywhere from 9- 18 months of college level classroom education, clinical time, and field 
internships to obtain certification. Firefighter/Paramedics Andrew Bolton and Jenny Smith serve as our ALS 
and EMS Coordinators. 
 
Lieutenant Christos Lekaditis and Firefighter Carl Gamberdella make up the Department’s Fire Prevention 
Division and conducted 350 Inspections in 2025. This is in addition to multiple fire drills and public education 
initiatives. By law, we are required to inspect Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detector installations when a home 
is sold. We are also required to inspect all new oil burners and propane gas installations. Any business holding a 
liquor license also requires a yearly inspection for fire safety issues. In addition, all new construction projects 
must have their plans reviewed for proper fire protection, as well as ongoing inspections during the construction 
process. Other Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during 2025 include: 
 
- Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953 to assist with Fire Safety 
Education in both the schools and with Senior Citizens. This Grant provides funding for both materials 
and personnel to bring fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations. Firefighter Olivia Hayes 
serves as our Coordinator for this program. 
- Participation in the Senior Center’s “Sand for Seniors” Program. This program provides buckets of 
walkway sand for Senior Citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the winter months. In 
partnership with this program, Firefighter Olivia Hayes delivers the sand to the residents and when 
possible, inspects their homes for Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detectors. If the resident was lacking 
detectors, Firefighter Hayes can install free detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant.  
- It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent 
smoke detectors. 
 
 Fire Prevention has become increasingly complex as codes change and new technologies appear. To keep pace, 
both Inspectors hold certifications with the State as Fire Prevention Officers - Level 1 or 2.  In addition two 
other members have also completed the Level one training and other staff have completed the Basic Level 
training. 
 
Four Firefighters from Lunenburg continue to be members of the Fire District 8 Technical Rescue and Dive 
Teams. These regional teams respond to high risk and specialized rescue situations, such as Confined Space, 
Rescue from Heights, Building and Trench Collapse, Swift/Floodwater and Underwater Search and Recovery. 
In conjunction with these Teams, Lunenburg operates both a Water Rescue Unit and a Collapse/Trench Rescue 
Trailer.  
 
72
===PAGE 77===
Our Apparatus fleet is currently in particularly good condition, with two pumpers and the Ladder truck at or 
under 10 years old. Engine 2, our 1989 GMS Brush Fire Truck, has exceeded its lifespan and is currently 
scheduled for replacement under the proposed FY ’27 Capital Plan.  Our Rescue Pumper, Squad 3, remains in 
good condition though it is nearing the end of its projected life span. This unit is scheduled for Replacement in 
FY’29. This unit is a dual-purpose Pumper and Rescue Unit, carrying the Jaws of Life, High Pressure Air Bags, 
and other specialized rescue tools. 
 
The Ambulances are experiencing increased wear and tear as we see not only more calls for service but longer 
transport times to more distant hospitals and critical care facilities. 35 years ago, we had four hospitals within a 
10–15-minute transport time. Today there is only one. In addition, many cardiac and trauma patients require 
definitive treatment in specialty facilities. This often requires transport to Worcester or occasionally even 
Boston.   Our new Rescue 1 arrived in the spring of 2025 and is in service as our Primary Ambulance.  Rescue 
2, a 2019 unit has been rotated to be the back up ambulance.  The former Rescue 1, a 2014 International has 
been rotated to replace our water rescue truck which was a 1998 ambulance. 
 
State and Federal Grants provided additional equipment to the Department including: 
- Drying Rack for drying firefighting clothing after washing/decontamination 
- Replaced broken/obsolete chain saws 
- New Forest Fire Helmets and gloves to replace ones over 20 years old 
- 2 Handheld Thermal Imaging Cameras 
 
As I write what will be my last Town Report before my retirement, I must reflect on the progress the Fire 
Department has made in the last 13 years.  When I assumed the role of Fire Chief in 2012, much of our front -
line apparatus was approaching or over 20 years old.  Our staffing only provided 2- 3 Firefighters during the 
day.  Our On Call staff responded to all calls after 6pm.   We relied on other services to provide Advanced Life 
Support for our ambulance patients.  Today nearly all our front -line apparatus has been updated and is 10 years 
or less in age.  We have 24/7 coverage at the Station and provide our own Advanced Life Support.  These 
improvements were possible due to the unwavering support of Town residents, Town Government and most of 
all the men and women of the Lunenburg Fire Department.  It is my fervent wish that this support continues to 
bring the Department over its next great hurdle.  The need for the 4
th Shift. 
 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their outstanding 
commitment to the Town. Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication are what truly make the 
Department the high- quality organization that it is.  I do not say it enough, but so many of our staff deserve 
accolades for the work they do “behind the scenes” every day to make the Department what it is. I cannot ask 
for a better group of men and women, and it is my profound honor to have served with them. 
 
I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards, and commissions for their continuing support 
during my tenure The level of inter-departmental cooperation that occurs daily is invisible to most people, but it 
continues to be critical to the smooth operation of the Town. Finally, my thanks also go out to the citizens of 
Lunenburg for their ongoing support of public safety. Such support allows us to continue providing the high 
level of service you have come to expect from us. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
73
===PAGE 78===
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2025 
     
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of 
Department+* 
  
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief   
 
Career Firefighters+  
      
A Shift  B Shift  C Shift  
      
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT  Kenneth Jones, 
Captain/AEMT 
 Christos Lekaditis, 
Lieutenant/AEMT 
 
Carl Gamberdella, 
FF/Paramedic 
 Austin Flagg, FF/Paramedic  Melissa Buchanan, 
FF/Paramedic 
 
Andrew Bolton, FF/Paramedic  Jennie Smith, FF/Paramedic  Olivia Hayes, FF/Paramedic  
      
  
Karen Weller, 
Administrative Assistant+    
  
  Call Firefighters    
      
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT    Samuel Johnson, FF/EMT  
Jorge Baiz, FF/EMT    Manuel Lafountaine, Firefighter  
Robert Barrett, FF/Paramedic    Mari Laundree, FF/EMT  
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT    Corey Lopez, FF/Paramedic  
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT 
   
Mitchell Mabardy, 
FF/Paramedic* 
 
Brady Burns, Firefighter    Daniel Motyka, FF/EMT  
Frank Byrne, FF/Paramedic    Stephen Morse, FF/EMT  
Michael Byrne, FF/AEMT    Timothy O’Connell, FF/EMT  
Joseph Cardone, EMT    Tyler Pelkey, FF/Paramedic  
Larissa Couture, 
Firefighter/EMT    
James Ricci, Firefighter  
Philip d’Entremont, 
FF/Paramedic*    Anthony Russo, FF/EMT  
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT    Daniel Sanchez-Morfin, FF/EMT  
Matthew Glenny, FF/EMT    Tyler Thibodeau, FF/EMT  
Alan Hyatt, Firefighter/EMT    Jared Wayne, FF/Paramedic  
Ronald Hyatt, FF/Paramedic      
 
 
*Indicates member of District Technical Rescue Team 
+ Indicates Career/Full Time Staff 
FF- Firefighter 
EMT- Firefighter/Emergency Medical Technician- Basic 
AEMT- Advanced Emergency Medical Technician 
 
 
 
74
===PAGE 79===
Reserve Police Officers 
Ofc. Robert DaCosta 
Off. Benjamin Campbell 
Off. Paul Duquette 
 
 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
     
Mission Statement:  
We, the members of the Lunenburg Police Department, strive to provide the highest quality of police services to 
our community members and visitors alike.  We believe in Community Policing, and all the benefits that are 
realized from this concept.  We will strive to maintain the strong partnerships that have been developed with our 
community and continuously look for ways to improve that relationship.  We will strive to deliver police 
services in a fair and impartial manner, consistent with all applicable laws, while respecting all individual 
rights.  We will use innovative and modern ideas and techniques to solve crimes, apprehend criminal offenders, 
and help resolve quality of life issues.   
 
Values: 
• We are committed to ensuring that all of our actions reflect the utmost integrity and honesty.  
• We are committed to respecting individual rights, human dignity, and the values of all members of the 
community and members of the Lunenburg Police Department. 
• We are a proactive and problem-solving agency. 
• We strive to serve our citizens in a professional manner with compassion, respect, and empathy. 
• We are committed to providing the highest quality of police services to our community. 
• We recognize the value of our employees and recognize they are our most valued resource.  We will 
strive to provide our employees with the necessary resources, training, and career development to 
enhance their professionalism. 
• We recognize that the well-being of our employees is of the utmost importance.  We will strive to 
provide the necessary assistance to assure our employees enjoy a long and satisfying career.  
 
Department Personnel:  
Administration 
Chief Jeffrey Thibodeau 
Lt. Sean Zrate 
Police Executive Assistant: Kennedy Jackson 
Public Safety Desk Clerk: Evelyn Rowe 
Part-Time Admin Assistant: Gail Kemp 
 
Patrol Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Shift 
Sgt. John Morreale 
Ofc. Jon Broc 
Ofc. Gage Russell 
Ofc. Elijah Weiss 
Evening Shift 
Sgt. Vacant 
Ofc. Anthony Cappucci 
Ofc. Jesse Reed 
Ofc. George Tibbetts 
Ofc. Brody Tapply 
Night Shift 
Sgt. Paul Theodoulou 
Ofc. Jenna Morse 
Ofc. Chris Bergeron 
Ofc. Grace Kerr 
 
Split Shift 
K9 Ofc. John Wagner 
Traffic Ofc. Joel Ortega 
Investigative Bureau 
Detective Josh Mathieu 
Community Policing 
Bureau 
SRO Bradley McNamara 
(Accompanied by 
Comfort Dog: Hank) 
SRO Kamerin Munroe 
 
Animal Control Officer 
Kathleen Comeau 
75
===PAGE 80===
 
Department Review: 
It is a privilege to present the Lunenburg Police Department’s Annual Report. In 2025, the Department 
continued to face challenges related to economic conditions, population growth, increased traffic and increase 
of cyber-crimes involving within the community. Ongoing nationwide difficulties in police recruitment and 
retention have also impacted the Department; however, progress has been made in addressing these challenges. 
Despite these obstacles, the Department remains proactive and fully committed to ensuring the safety of the 
community.  
 
Promotions:  
In October 2024, Chief Thomas Gammel retired, and Lieutenant Jeffrey Thibodeau was promoted to Interim 
Chief of Police. In November 2024, Sergeant Sean Zrate was promoted to Acting Lieutenant. Both positions 
later became permanent. In 2025, Interim Chief Thibodeau was formally appointed Chief of Police in April, and 
Acting Lieutenant Zrate was appointed to the rank of Lieutenant in August. 
 
New-Hire Updates: 
In May 2025, Officer Brody Tapply was appointed as a student officer and attended the Basic Recruit Academy 
at Fitchburg State University. Upon successfully completing the academy, he was sworn in as a full-time patrol 
officer in September 2025. 
 
In October 2025, the Department welcomed two additional officers, Officer Grace Kerr and Officer Elijah 
Weiss. Officer Kerr is a graduate of Fitchburg State University and previously served with the Fitchburg State 
University Police Department beginning in September 2023. Officer Weiss joined the Department from the 
Mendon Police Department, where he served since October 2023. Prior to that, he was employed by Fitchburg 
State University from 2021 through 2023. 
 
Programming Updates:  
Through a partnership with the Lancaster Police Department and Open Sky Community Services, the 
Department was able to secure funding to implement a Co-Response Model for mental health–related calls. As 
a result, Co-Response Clinician Vanessa Rivera began working with the Department in December. This 
program enhances our ability to respond effectively to mental health incidents and support community members 
during mental health related calls, as they continue to increase. The department has addressed the emerging 
nationwide trend of cyber-crimes and fraud. We have been fortunate to have highly trained and proactive 
Officers with the expertise and guidance of Officer Bradley McNamara in combatting these cyber-crime trends. 
Officer McNamara has had many successful prosecutions and seizure of illicit funds that lead to the victims 
recovering their financial loses. 
 
2025 Statistical Information: 
The overall goal of the Lunenburg Police Department is a reduction of crime, assure quality of life issues are 
addressed, and provide a safe community to live, work and visit.  The Department evaluates effectiveness, in 
part, by statistical information that is generated through the Records Management System.  
 
The following statistical information is to provide some insight into our officers’ activity for 2025. 
 
Activity           2024                    2025  
   Calls for Service   22,880 18,822  
Arrests Total   315          435  
Arrests Custody   92 147  
Arrests Summons   222 288  
76
===PAGE 81===
Protective Custody   1 7  
Motor Vehicle Accidents (MVA) Total   289 315  
MVA w/Injury   72 65  
MVA w/o Injury   190 217  
MVA Hit & Run   27 33  
Motor Vehicle Stops   3,031 2,960  
Civil Citations (fines)   53 140  
Citations Warnings   1836 1297  
Citations Criminal Offenses   120 381  
MV Arrests 
OUI 
Radar Operations 
  28 
16 
3,255 
100 
19 
2,290 
 
Domestic Violence Related Incidents   65 79  
   Restraining/Harassment Orders   59 59  
   Cyber-Crimes/Fraud                                                                    40 60  
   Internet crimes against Children                                                  
               Burglary/B&E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  4 
 
 12                       6                                                
10  
      
      
Shoplifting                                                                  67 71  
   Animal Control Calls for Service   286 305  
Dog Bites   10 18  
Kennel Inspections   20 19  
Barn Inspections   41 47  
Mental Health Related Incidents   88 131  
Attempted/Threat of Suicide   21 25  
Mental Health Evaluations   20 18  
Firearms Licensing   306 382  
License to Carry   260 289  
Firearms Identification Card   8 15  
Over 70 (age) FID/LTC   36 71  
License to Sell/Ammunition/Gunsmith 
   Machine gun 
  N/A 
2 
3 
4 
 
      
Training: 
Training continues to be a priority for the Department. We obtained a department MILO advanced training 
system with earmark funding from the state. We now have the ability to train in virtual simulation-based 
programs. We have department instructors for specialized areas including Firearms, Less Than Lethal, 
Defensive Tactics, RAD, Active Shooter, MILO instructors, ALERRT &ALICE trainers and Resiliency 
(Officer Well Being).  The Department’s in-house trainers look for up to date ways to complement our annual 
MPTC state mandated in-service training for all officers.   
 In addition, many officers have attended specialized training in various areas of Policing as a part of the 
department’s professional development.  Training includes Cybercrimes, Accident reconstruction, Crisis 
Intervention Team, Critical Incident Management System, FBI-LEEDA, Servant Officer and Intentional 
77
===PAGE 82===
Leadership Programs.   
The Department also provides training designed for our non-sworn members, such as Police Executive 
Assistant Conference, and Massachusetts Public information requests training.     
 
 
Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District: 
The Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District (NVRDD) is a Regional Emergency Communications Center 
located in Devens, MA. NVRDD serves as the 911 public safety answering point and dispatch center for Police, 
Fire and EMS for the communities of Lunenburg, Berlin, Bolton, Boxborough, Havard, Lancaster, Devens, 
Hudson and Department of Defense at Devens.  NVRDD serves a total population of just over 55,000 residents 
and thousands more visitors to the orchards, farms, businesses, and attractions within its eight communities. 
 
Conclusion:  
I would like to thank the Citizens and businesses of the Lunenburg community for their continued support of the 
police department. Without collaboration with our community partners, we would not be successful.  We look 
forward to the New Year and continue to bring the very best in policing to our community. 
 
Most importantly I would like to thank all the employees and their families of the Lunenburg Police Department 
for their dedication to the Community, and the work that they perform daily. When working for a public service 
department the employees work twenty-four hours a day 365 days a year to keep our community safe, this is not 
an easy task for any Law Enforcement Officer and their families. The personnel of the Lunenburg Police 
Department play a vital role day to day in making the Town of Lunenburg a great and safe place to live, work 
and visit for all.   
 
 
Thank you,  
Chief Jeffrey Thibodeau  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
78
===PAGE 83===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79
===PAGE 84===
PLANNING BOARD 
Two (2) ANR Plans (land division plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law, but 
still requiring Board endorsement) were approved. 
Lunenburg’s Stormwater Bylaw requires the Board review and approval for any 
development/redevelopment project that disturbs one or more acre(s) of land. This Bylaw safeguards the 
public health, safety, welfare and the environment by minimizing adverse impacts of contaminated 
stormwater both off-site and downstream. These updates are more likely to affect large commercial 
projects and multi-family dwellings; not the average homeowner wanting to put in a shed, garden, pool, 
etc. The Board approved stormwater permits for the following. 
 
• Construction of 3 Single-Family homes, 171 Arbor St 
• Reconfigure parking, 494 Electric Ave 
• Construction of a single-family home, 70 Kilburn St 
• Construction of Single-Family home & Expand Common Driveway, 560 Goodrich St 
• Construction Single-Family home, 795 Leominster Rd 
• Construction Single-Family home, 791 Leominster Rd 
• Construction 5 Multi-Family homes, 213 Electric Ave 
• Construction Single-Family home, 255 Sunnyhill Rd 
• Construction 5 Single-Family homes on 5 ANR lots, 100 Townsend Harbor Rd 
 
Lunenburg has four designated Scenic Roads; Lancaster Avenue, Flat Hill Road, Northfield Road, and 
Leominster Road. As these are Scenic Roads, any repair, maintenance, re-construction, or paving work 
in the Town’s right-of-way cannot involve the cutting or removal of trees or the tearing down or 
destruction of stone walls without consent of the Planning Board and/or Tree Warden.
 
• Removal of large dying maple tree, 63 Lancaster Ave 
 
The Planning Board received and approved site plans for the following 
• Battery Energy and Storage System, 485 Leominster-Shirley Rd 
• 1092 SF addition, 110 Pleasant St 
• 10 Space gravel parking area, 801 Northfield Rd 
• 10 Space parking area, 994 Northfield Rd 
• Construction of quality air controlled building, 1260 Reservoir Rd 
• Change Use, 1335 Mass Ave 
• Construct a commercial building, 494 Electric Ave 
 
The Planning Board approved two (2) Site Plan Modifications. 
• Reduce project size, 260 Falulah Rd 
• Addition 10x12 Ft Shed, 230 Flat Hill Rd 
 
Five (5) Special Permits were issued. Four (4) for Common Driveways. 
• 1523 Mass Ave 
• 443 West Townsend Rd 
• 171 Arbor St 
• 560 Goodrich St 
 
And One (1) for a free standing Sign. 
80
===PAGE 85===
• 3 Lancaster Ave. 
 
The Planning Department saw the start and resignation of Planning Director Christopher Reilly and the 
resignation of Administrative Assistant Logan O’Connell. 
 
The Master Plan Steering Committee continues to work on the Master Plan Meetings continue 
at Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom. 
 
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be 
reached at 978-582-4146 extension 413. Various forms are available online at 
https://lunenburgma.gov/ on the Planning Board’s homepage. The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of 
Lunenburg, MA (which contains the Protective [Zoning] Bylaws), Rules and Regulations Governing 
the Subdivision of Land, Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, and 
Permitting Guidebook are available online. 
 
Matthew Brenner, Chair Timothy Willsmer, Vice 
Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member Vacant, Member Richard Harris, Interim Land 
Use 
Director 
 
 
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard S everal petitions during the calendar  year 202 5. There were several 
applicants seeking special permits and special permits for dimensional variations. The Zoning Board meetings 
are held on the second and Fourth Wednesdays of the month at Town Hall at 7:00PM on an “as needed” basis 
or Zoom as an alternative.  
 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members: Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, James Besarkarski, Vice-
Chairman, Members: David Blatt, Patrick Callahan and Anthony Nicastro and Donald Gurney, Associate 
members. 
 
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statutes are as follows:  
 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the 
By-laws.  
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws.  
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General Laws, 
as amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or enforcement 
action from the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional Planning Agency, abutting City 
or Town or other Administrative Official.  
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 
40B. The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits submitted to the Board 
under Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing. These requests can, by law, 
circumvent local zoning ordinances.  
The office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts 
Avenue, Lunenburg. Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 
PM Tuesday and Thursday, closed Friday. If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals, please 
contact us at 978-582- 4146, ext. 421 during regular business hours. Zoning Board applications are available in 
the office and online at www.lunenburgma.gov  
81
===PAGE 86===
 
Alfred Gravelle, Chairman  
James Besarkarski, Vice Chairman  
David Blatt, Member  
Patrick Callahan, Member  
Anthony Nicastro, Associate Member  
Donald Gurney, Associate Member  
The board has opening for two Associate members 
 
 
AD HOC OPEN SPACE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE PLANNING BOARD 
 
The Open Space Committee’s efforts in 2025 principally focused on gaining a better understanding of the Town 
of Lunenburg’s portfolio of vacant, undeveloped, “general municipal” lands, and assessing which of those 
properties may be repurposed more specifically to meet needs identified in the Town’s Open Space and 
Recreation Plan.   
 
The Open Space Committee applied for and received an extension to the Open Space and Recreation Plan 
required by the state.  The revised plan is now due June 30, 2029. 
 
The Open Space Committee also reviewed several Chapter 61 withdrawal notifications this past year as part of 
the town’s defined multi-board process.  
 
The Open Space Committee has drafted a Town Bylaw for consideration at the May 2026 Town Meeting.  The 
Bylaw changes the status of the Open Space Committee from ad hoc committee of the Planning Board to a 
standing standalone committee.   
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Michael Toohill, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82
===PAGE 87===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDUCATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83
===PAGE 88===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Superintendent’s Message 
 
To the Citizens of Lunenburg, 
 
It is with profound joy and a deep sense of honor that I submit my first annual report as your Superintendent of 
Schools. As I conclude my first year in this role, I reflect on the warm welcome I have received from this 
community. I extend my deepest gratitude to the Town Manager, Town Department Heads, the Select Board, 
the Finance Committee, and the School Committee for their partnership and support. It is a privilege to serve a 
town that cares so deeply about its children. 
 
My tenure began with a commitment to listen. Before setting a new course, I needed to understand the heart of 
Lunenburg. Through three comprehensive surveys and countless conversations, I heard from 491 students, 106 
staff members, and 186 families. 
 
What I learned was powerful. I discovered a district with a strong heartbeat; where staff take immense pride in 
their colleagues and where families value the safety and opportunities our schools provide. However, I also 
heard clear calls for growth. While 70% of our students feel supported, we learned that a sense of belonging is 
fragile; too many students told us they do not yet feel fully accepted for who they are. Families expressed a 
need for stability in the budget and a focus on student mental health, while staff highlighted that years of fiscal 
constraints have impacted trust. 
 
These findings became the compass for our work this year. They confirmed that our mission must be to move 
our "One Community" spirit from a theme to a daily practice: welcoming all, lifting each other up, learning with 
purpose, and leading with heart. 
 
Guided by what I learned, we established four strategic goals to steer the district through the 2025- 2026 school 
year. 
 
First, we focused on Improving Instruction. With the appointment of Dr. Kimberly Sarfde as our Director of 
Teaching and Learning, we raised the bar for classroom excellence. Our goal has been to ensure every educator 
receives high-quality, actionable feedback that drives student achievement. A central pillar of this work is our 
steadfast commitment to early literacy, with the explicit goal that every child will be reading fluently by the end 
of third grade. We are seeing the "joy of rigor" emerge in every classroom, where high expectations meet high 
engagement. 
 
Second, we prioritized Fiscal Leadership and Transparency. A critical step in this direction was the hiring of 
Christopher McNamara as our Business Manager. Mr. McNamara has made strong gains in implementing 
accounting practices that are clear and publicly communicated, allowing effective insight for town elected 
officials and citizens. Understanding the financial pressures facing the town, we developed a budget process 
defined by "radical clarity." We presented distinct budget scenarios—level-service, town-allocation, and 
restoration which fostered an honest, collaborative dialogue about what we value and what we fund. 
 
Third, we dedicated ourselves to Building a Culture of Belonging. We strove to create an environment where 
kindness is the norm and every student sees themselves as a valued member of the community. 
 
Looking back on the past year, we have achieved milestones. 
 
 We completed universal screenings in mathematics and literacy for grades K–5 to ensure no child slips through 
the cracks. Our educators modeled the instructional excellence we strive for. To support this work, we provided 
targeted professional development in the Open Sci Ed curriculum and the development of literacy skills. 
84
===PAGE 89===
 
We built from a position of fiscal stability. Throughout the year, our budget remained healthy and on track. Our 
mantra was no surprises for the staff, school committee and the community that entrusts us to be stewards of 
limited resources.  Furthermore, in compliance with state requirements, we responsibly reinvested funds into 
our food services program, upgrading critical infrastructure like walk-in freezers to better serve our students. 
 
 The spirit of Lunenburg shone brightly this year. From the always spirited Homecoming parade to an 
undefeated regular season for our Field Hockey team and a Championship title for our Football team, our 
students gave us much to cheer for. Perhaps most inspiring was our Unified Basketball program, which 
continues to be a beacon of inclusion, proving that we win when we play together. Even in our youngest grades, 
we saw this culture taking root, with Primary School students demonstrating unprompted acts of kindness that 
remind us all of the power of empathy. 
 
As we look toward the coming year, my commitment to the town of Lunenburg remains steadfast: to lead 
visibly, communicate plainly, and budget transparently. We acknowledge the challenges ahead, but we face 
them with the strength of a united community. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to serve this incredible town. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent 
 
 
 
*Based on Oct 1
st state enrollment reporting  
Grade Level Lunenburg Resident 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Total 
PK 55 0  55 
K 108 0  108 
1 116 0 116 
2 110  0 110 
Primary Total 389 0 389 
3 113 0 113 
4 135 0 135 
5 108 0 108 
Elementary Total 356  0  356 
6 122 0 122 
7 151 0 151 
8 109 0 109 
Middle School Total 382  0 382 
9 89 5 94 
10 110 6 116 
11 116 4 120 
12 118 2 120 
High School Total 433  17 450 
 Advanced Community 
Experience 
Program(ACE)  
8 0 8 
All Schools Total  1568 17 1585 
85
===PAGE 90===
 
School Facilities Department 
Town Report 2025 
 
Lunenburg Schools Facilities has been working diligently on the up keep of our infrastructure and the 
completion of several Capital Planning Projects throughout the summer of FY 25. 
Capital Program 
 
All of the projects below have been completed: 
 
l)  Primary Elementary School mini split project was completed at a cost of $499,900 in August of 
FY25. The project included the installation of (13)2-ton condensers, (13)2-ton indoor wall units. These 
units will provide cooling in the warmer months and help out with the buildings original heating 
system as well as act as supplemental heat if needed. Lunenburg has worked with Green Communities 
for grants to help pay the cost as well as rebates from Unitil and National Grid. This project was 
awarded to Daikin Applied. 
 
2) THES Fire Alarm Upgrade was completed August of FY25 at a cost of $354,990. This system 
brought the Turkey Hill Elementary School up to code with all new hardware and software. The 
project was awarded to Relay Fire & Safety. 
 
3) Exterior door upgrade at Turkey Hill Elementary was completed August of FY25 at a cost of 
$164,482. This project included the replacement of doors and hardware on entrances 1, 2, 3 and 10. 
This project has helped make the building safer, reliable and weather tight. This project was awarded 
to Suburban Glass and Mirror. 
 
4) Primary and Turkey Hill got an upgrade of cameras and security card access that was 
completed August of FY25 at a cost of $135,426. The project was rewarded to Galaxy Integrated 
Technologies. 
 
5)  All 3 schools received upgraded refrigeration controls of the walk in freezers and refrigerators at 
a cost of $12,778 .This was funded through Green Communities Grants and Utility rebates. These new 
controls help them work more efficiently and cost effective. Grouped in with this is was weather 
stripping for exterior doors at Primary & Elementary.
 
Summer FY25 Facilities Projects 
 
l)  The Lunenburg Schools Facilities Dept. was tasked with moving Central Office. This move was 
from the deteriorating Passios School to Turkey Hill Elementary School. The District hired a moving 
company Esquire Movers at a cost of $9,820. The Maintenance Department continued moving 
anything residual. A storage container was needed and purchased for a cost of $3,575.
 
 
2)  Facilities Department worked with Kitchen Services to make several upgrades in the District 
Schools kitchens. New mechanicals were installed for the Turkey Hill freezer and refrigerator. A new 
dish machine was installed at Primary as well as a new grease trap. New steamer was installed at 
86
===PAGE 91===
LMHS as well as new milk coolers. The projects were funded through Kitchen Services. 
Preventative Maintenance 
 
The Facilities and Grounds Department has been working conscientiously on up keep of grounds and 
snow removal as well as maintaining climate equipment within the schools. Such tasks include 
cleaning of uninvents, replacement of motors, filters, actuators and heating coils. Custodial is always 
taking advantage of vacations and breaks for deep cleanings of all schools. The Facilities Department 
always strives to cut costs and keep work in house as much as possible. This summer was very active 
and as a department we met the challenge. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Christopher Stevens, Director of Facilities 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools IT Review 
Town Report 2025 
 
The Lunenburg P
ublic Schools Information Technology (IT) Department played a critical role in addressing 
the technology needs both inside and outside of the classroom. The Department also focused heavily on 
building security upgrades. The following projects were completed as part of an emphasis on building 
security: 
1. Turkey Hill Elementary School received additional cameras to cover many blind spots both in and 
out of the building. 
2. Turkey Hill Elementary School also received a new access control system with swipe pads at 
various entrances around the building. 
3. Turkey Hill Elementary School also was given a brand new alarm system as part of the security 
upgrade. 
4. Lunenburg Primary School received additional cameras to cover blind spots as well as had a 
problematic door fixed. 
5. Pending in 2026 is replacement of the door entry cameras at both locations as well as district-wide 
security center replacement to replace end of life equipment. 
 
Solutions supporting cyber safety were also addressed this year. CrowdStrike was added to all windows 
devices to monitor any malicious activities on the staff devices and lab computers. 
GoGuardian was expanded to not only cover the LMHS one-to-one devices but all student 
Chromebooks. Staff Chromebooks were also introduced which are natively more secure. 
 
Technology continued to be a prevalent tool in the classroom. In response, the district continued to support 
devices for each student by providing new devices to 6th and 9th graders as well as introducing new devices in 
grades 2 and 3 to replace end of life equipment. 
 
The IT Department continued to manage and respond to all help desk requests with an extra focus on 
following best practices, student technology usage and excellent customer service. The team will continue 
to direct efforts towards improving end-user experience and protecting the district’s technology 
environment from potential cyber threats in the new year. 
 
 Respectfully Submitted, 
87
===PAGE 92===
Information Technology Team 
 
Special Services Department 
Town Report – FY25 (data taken from 2024-2025 school year) 
From the March 1, 2025 report (SIMS Report 5-Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), there are 246 
students with disabilities receiving special education or related services in Lunenburg (last year there were 242).  
This represents 15.7% of our total student population of 1,568 students (it was 15.5% last year).  The state 
average from the 2024- 2025 elected Populations Report (data was last updated on January 23, 2025) 
(https://profiles.doe.mass.edu/statereport/selectedpopulations.aspx) is 20.6%.  Fr om the March 1, 2025 report 
(SIMS Report 7 -SPED Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), the total number of students receiving 
services outside the district was 10 (last year was 8).  Of the 10 students, 6 are placed in Collaborative 
Placements, 3 are in Day Placements and 1 is in a Residential Placement.  Our Advanced Community 
Experience Program (ACE), which serves students ages 18- 22 years old, had 10 students enrolled last year.  
Additionally, from the March 1, 2025 report, 122 students identified with a disability received accommodations 
via 504 plans in Lunenburg (last year was 119). 
For the 2025 school year, our Accountability Overall Classification was “not requiring assistance or 
intervention”.  The reason for this classification was “Substantial Progress Towards Targets” at 50% (last year it 
was 60%).  This data can be found at the DESE website:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5
& 
 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole Special 
Services Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each year.  For 
our Indicators, the following information is available below and also can be found at: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000&  
 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. The state target for Students with IEPs was 79.33% (was 78.33% last year). 
Lunenburg’s rate was 90.0% (was 61.9% last year) and the overall state rate was 79.7% (was 80.4% last year) 
for Students with IEPs.   
 
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  The state target for Students with IEPs was 12.47% (was 12.97% last year). 
Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was “Suppressed” due to enrollment counts fewer than 6 (it was 11.1% 
two years ago) and the overall state rate was 13.3% (was 13.6% last year).   
 
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS -Alt. “In Massachusetts the highest possible 
score on the MCAS -Alt, the state's alternate assessment, is Progressing. Therefore, the data reported in the 
SPP/APR for the "Number of Children with IEPs Scoring At or Above Proficient Against Alternate Academic 
Achievement Standards is zero '0'” District- level data on the performance of all students with IEPs on MCAS -
Alt is available at: 
● https://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/achievement_alt_level.aspx?linkid=116&orgcode=01620000&fy
code=2024&orgtypecode=5 
 
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, our FY2023 
rate (most current data available) was 0.0% (last year it was 0.0%).  The state rate was .8%.   Additionally, 
Indicator 4B records significant discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 
FY2022 (most current data available), Lunenburg was not found to have any significant discrepancies due to 
these factors.  
 
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6- 21 with IEPs. For 2023- 2024, the state’s rates are 
88
===PAGE 93===
as follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 67.8%, Partial Inclusion = 12.6%, Substantially Separate 
Placements = 12.9%, and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 6.6%.  In 
Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:  Full Inclusion = 69.8%, Partial = 8.4%, Substantially Separate = 
18.1% (this target was NOT met by district) and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 3.7%.  
 
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3- 5 with IEPs.  The 2023-2024 state rates showed 
the percent of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full Inclusion 
early childhood program was 51.7%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was 15.2%, a Substantially Separate 
Placement (special education class, separate school, or residential facility) was 20.9%, and students not 
attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was 12.2%.  In 
Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 26.3% (this target was NOT met by district), our Partial 
Inclusion rate was 5.3%, Substantially Separate rate was 57.9% (this target was NOT met by district) , and 
Related Services was 10.5%. 
 
Indicator 7 – Early Childhood Outcomes.  The 2023-2024 state targets for Summary Statement 1 (Growth), 
which measures preschoolers who substantially increased their rate of growth by the time they exited the 
program.  In Lunenburg, our growth rate was 88.90% for Positive Social-Emotional Skills (state rate 83.3%), 
88.9% for Acquisition and Use of Knowledge and Skills (state rate 83.3%), and 77.8% for Use of Appropriate 
Behavior (state rate 83.2%) (this target was NOT met). 
 
The state targets for Summary Statement 2 (Proficiency), which measures children functioning within age 
expectations by the time they exited. In Lunenburg, our proficiency rates were 11.1% for Social-Emotional 
Skills (state rate 38.0%) (this target was NOT met), 11.1% for Knowledge and Skills (state rate 41.4%) (this 
target was NOT met), and 11.1% for Appropriate Behavior (state rate 47.0%). In Lunenburg, our proficiency 
rates were 11.1% for Social-Emotional Skills (this target was NOT met). 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special 
education who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results for 
students with IEPs.  For 2023-2024 the state target was 90 %.  Lunenburg’s rate was 7.3% and the state’s rate 
was 10.7% (from information collected in the Spring of 2022) (this target was NOT met).  
 
Indicator
 9 & 10 - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special 
Education Categories.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in either 
case.  
 
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   This indicator measures the % of children with parental consent to 
evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established timeline (20 23-2024). Data is reported for all initial 
evaluations initiated in October, November, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 100% in 
compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 86%.  
 
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, found 
eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third 
birthdays. The state target for this indicator was  100% and Lunenburg in 2023- 2024 was 100%. Data is 
suppressed if the number of students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is 
fewer than 10. 
 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 100%.  This 
indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that includes appropriate 
measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based upon an age appropriate transition 
assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will reasonably enable the student to meet those 
postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's transition services needs.  In 2023-2024 
Lunenburg was 100% in compliance.  
89
===PAGE 94===
 
Indicator 14 – Post- School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students with 
IEPs who exited high school during the 2023-2024 school year and self -reported post-school engagement in 
education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through three 
measurements:  
● Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
● Measur
ement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving 
high school. 
● Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training 
program; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high 
school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post -
secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2023-2024 school year, state targets for the three 
measurements of Post-School Outcomes are Measurement A: 46%; Measurement B: 7 6%; and Measurement C: 
82%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows (from reporting year 2023-2024):  Measurement A = 33.3%, 
Measurement B =50%, and Measurement C = 66.6%.  State targets were not met.  
 
The Pare
nt Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support 
group for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, which 
currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I services and parents of students with disabilities.  
Meeting/Support Groups are currently being held monthly, 6pm, via Zoom and/or in person.  As of January 
2026, the executive board is made up of Chairpersons: Cheri Cordella and Sondria Harp.  For more information, 
go to:  
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-directory/special- services/pacsal?authuser=0  
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to meet the 
varying needs of our students in the least restrictive environment. We have an experienced, hard working staff 
that works together with parents to provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts 
to develop challenging and focused educational programs for children.  We remain committed to the Lunenburg 
Public Schools mission, “The mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, 
confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active 
citizenship, and rewarding lives.” We are proud of our staff, students, and families and their collaboration and 
dedication to meet the needs of all students.   
    
For additional information, please visit our website at: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-directory/special-services,  
or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 129 Northfield Road, (978) 
582-4100, ext. 5213. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
 
Teaching & Learning Update 
Town Report 2025 
Teaching and learning remains the central focus of Lunenburg Public Schools. During the 2024–2025 school 
year, the district continued to strengthen curriculum implementation, instructional practices, and systems of 
student support across all grade levels. This work reflects a sustained commitment to research-based instruction, 
data-informed decision-making, and long-term instructional coherence, carried out amid ongoing fiscal 
constraints and increasing uncertainty in state and federal funding. 
Collectively, these instructional systems are designed to ensure that students receive consistent, high-quality 
90
===PAGE 95===
instruction every day, regardless of school or grade level. The district’s emphasis on strong core instruction, 
early identification of need, and timely, targeted support is intended to prevent small gaps from becoming long-
term barriers to learning. For students and families, this work results in clearer expectations, earlier 
intervention, and improved access to grade-level learning. 
Across content areas, the district has prioritized instructional approaches that emphasize conceptual 
understanding, reasoning, and application while maintaining alignment with the Massachusetts Curriculum 
Frameworks and expectations established by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education. 
Literacy Instruction and Student Support Systems 
Lunenburg Public Schools continues to implement a coherent, research-aligned literacy system designed to 
improve outcomes for all students while maximizing the impact of limited and increasingly uncertain resources. 
Rather than relying on isolated or short-term initiatives, the district has focused on aligning curriculum, 
assessment, professional learning, and intervention into an integrated system that can be sustained over time. 
High-quality Tier 1 classroom instruction serves as the foundation of the district’s literacy framework. Research 
consistently demonstrates that strong daily instruction is the most effective way to improve literacy outcomes at 
scale, particularly in districts with limited supplemental staffing. At the elementary level (Grades K–5), HMH 
Into Reading provides a structured, evidence-based approach that integrates foundational skills, vocabulary 
development, knowledge-building, and comprehension. 
In Grades K–2, instruction emphasizes early reading development—including phonological awareness, phonics, 
spelling, and fluency—while intentionally embedding oral language and comprehension from the outset. These 
practices are designed to prevent reading difficulty rather than respond after gaps widen. In Grades 3–5, 
instruction shifts toward consolidating fluent reading and strengthening vocabulary, background knowledge, 
and comprehension of increasingly complex texts. 
At the middle school level, the district has devoted significant time to deepening implementation of Amplify 
English Language Arts. Educators engage in sustained Professional Learning Community (PLC) work focused 
on text complexity, pacing, instructional routines, and scaffolding to ensure students consistently engage with 
rigorous, grade-level material while receiving appropriate instructional support. 
Assessment data are used instructionally to guide teaching and support decisions. Elementary students are 
universally screened using Dynamic Indicators of Basic Literacy Skills (DIBELS), enabling educators to 
identify risk early, adjust instruction, and provide targeted intervention through the district’s Multi-Tiered 
System of Supports (MTSS). Intervention time and intensity are determined by data and refined through regular 
progress monitoring and collaborative review. 
Beginning in February 2026, Lunenburg Primary School will engage in a short, high-impact partnership with 
the HILL for Literacy. This classroom-based work will focus on modeling effective instruction and providing 
real-time feedback to teachers, intentionally strengthening internal instructional capacity that can be sustained 
despite declining external funding. 
Mathematics Instruction and Conceptual Understanding 
Mathematics instruction across grades K–12 emphasizes conceptual understanding, reasoning, and application 
rather than rote memorization of procedures. Programs and practices are aligned with the Massachusetts 
Mathematics Frameworks and DESE expectations for high-quality instruction. 
In Grades K–5, mathematics instruction is delivered through HMH Into Math, with a strong emphasis on 
number sense, multiple representations, mathematical discourse, and problem-solving. Students regularly 
engage with visual models, hands-on materials, and structured discussion to develop deep and lasting 
91
===PAGE 96===
understanding of mathematical concepts. 
At the middle school level, mathematics instruction is delivered through EdGems, an inquiry-based program 
that emphasizes reasoning, sense-making, and productive struggle. Instruction encourages students to articulate 
their thinking, engage with complex problems, and develop confidence as mathematical learners. 
At the high school level, mathematics instruction follows a coherent sequence aligned with state frameworks 
and college- and career-readiness expectations. Students complete required coursework in Algebra, Geometry, 
and Algebra II, with additional opportunities in Precalculus, Statistics, Calculus, Business Math, and Advanced 
Placement courses. Multiple pathways ensure access to rigorous, standards-aligned instruction that supports a 
range of postsecondary goals. 
Universal screening for early numeracy using the Universal Screener for Number Sense (USNS) supports 
MTSS decision-making in the elementary grades. Data are reviewed collaboratively to guide instruction, 
intervention, and progress monitoring. 
Science Instruction and Inquiry-Based Learning 
Science instruction across grades K–12 is aligned with the Massachusetts Science and Technology/Engineering 
Frameworks and the Next Generation Science Standards. Instruction emphasizes inquiry, investigation, and the 
application of scientific concepts. 
In Grades K–2, science instruction is delivered through locally designed, standards-aligned units that promote 
curiosity, observation, questioning, and hands-on exploration, supporting early scientific thinking and language 
development. 
In Grades 3–5, science instruction utilizes OpenSciEd materials, which engage students in real-world 
phenomena and integrate science and engineering practices, disciplinary core ideas, and crosscutting concepts. 
This approach supports sustained investigation, explanation, and sense-making over time. 
Middle school science is delivered through Glencoe/McGraw Hill iScience, incorporating hands-on 
investigations, laboratory experiences, literacy connections, and assessments aligned with state standards. 
At the high school level, students complete coursework in Biology and have additional opportunities in 
Chemistry, Physics, Environmental Science, Anatomy and Physiology, Biotechnology, and Advanced 
Placement sciences. Instruction emphasizes laboratory experiences, scientific inquiry, and the application of 
scientific concepts. 
Data-Informed Instruction, MTSS, and Professional Collaboration 
Across content areas, structured data review and professional collaboration remain central to instructional 
improvement. Professional Learning Communities meet regularly to analyze student performance, refine 
instructional practices, and adjust MTSS supports. Progress is reviewed through ongoing data analysis, 
classroom observation, and collaborative reflection to ensure instructional practices remain effective, equitable, 
and responsive to student need. 
This work reflects the expertise, professionalism, and sustained commitment of Lunenburg educators, who 
continue to refine practice and support students despite significant resource constraints. 
Safety, Preparedness, and School Environment 
Student and staff safety remains a district priority. Staff have participated in ALICE safety training, and schools 
maintain strong partnerships with local police and fire departments to support emergency preparedness and age-
appropriate safety education. 
 
92
===PAGE 97===
Federal and State Funding: Strategic Use and Uncertainty 
The district continues to use federal ESSA Title funds strategically to support instructional priorities, 
professional learning, intervention services, and capacity-building aligned with identified student needs. 
However, the future of these funding sources is increasingly uncertain. 
Lunenburg Public Schools does not anticipate receiving its full allocation of Title I funds in future years and is 
actively planning for potential reductions. In addition, the district is preparing for the likely loss of Title II and 
Title IV funding moving forward. These funds have historically supported professional development, 
instructional leadership, and student support initiatives that cannot be readily absorbed into the local operating 
budget. 
As funding uncertainty increases, the district has prioritized protecting the instructional core. This includes 
maintaining high-quality curriculum, preserving early literacy and numeracy screening, sustaining MTSS 
structures, and ensuring educators have access to the professional collaboration necessary to respond effectively 
to student needs. 
The district is also actively pursuing additional grant opportunities to offset anticipated losses and support 
continued instructional improvement. Despite these efforts, the loss of federal funding will further limit 
flexibility and place additional pressure on already constrained instructional systems. 
Fiscal Context and Sustainability 
All instructional work described in this report has been carried out amid repeated budget reductions, staffing 
losses, declining grant funding, and growing uncertainty surrounding federal education dollars. These fiscal 
realities have required careful prioritization and an ongoing focus on instructional coherence and sustainability. 
 
The district is operating with limited remaining flexibility. Continued progress depends on stability in staffing 
and funding. Additional reductions—particularly the loss of federal Title funds—would compromise 
instructional systems and place current gains at risk. 
 
Looking Ahead 
Lunenburg Public Schools remains committed to continuous improvement, transparency, and collaboration with 
families and the community. The district’s instructional systems are designed to ensure that access to high 
quality instruction and timely support is based on student need rather than circumstance. 
By investing in coherent curriculum, strong instruction, and data-informed systems of support, the district 
continues to work toward improved outcomes for all students while responsibly managing limited and uncertain 
resources. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Dr. Kimberly Sarfde, Director of Teaching & Learning 
 
 
Lunenburg School Food Service 
Town Report 2025 
 
Food Service Director 
Nadine Lorenzen 
 
Cook/Managers 
John Terho 
Elin Forgues 
Marlene Aubuchon-Hoaglund 
93
===PAGE 98===
 
General workers 
Eleni Tsiakalos 
Vanessa Cole 
Jessica McCarthy 
Jennifer Cotoni 
Kathy Dunlop 
Jessica Ouellette 
Jennifer Pasciuti 
Carol Jones 
Morgan Joslin 
Nicole Newcomb   
Katelyn Walsh 
As the Commonwealth of Massachusetts continues to supplement the National School Lunch Program, all 
students are able to access healthy school meals regardless of household income. Universal free meals have 
eliminated the stigma often associated with qualifying for free and reduced-price meals, and student 
participation continues to grow as a result. 
Increased meal participation and reimbursement revenue have allowed the program to make several much-
needed equipment upgrades across district kitchens. At the Primary School, A new dish machine was installed. 
Turkey Hill Elementary School upgraded the walk-in freezer and purchased a new slicer. The Middle High 
School replaced the steamer and milk coolers. 
LINQ Nutrition Software has proven to be a valuable asset to the program, supporting menu planning and 
nutrition analysis while saving staff time. Additionally, allowing students to enter their own identification 
numbers during meal service has significantly improved efficiency. 
The Lunch Program continues to participate in Harvest of the month promoting a different Massachusetts-
produced food each month in our cafeterias. This initiative supports local farms and encourages students to 
enjoy locally grown foods. 
We also welcomed a new employee to our team, Katelyn Walsh.
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Nadine Lorenzen, Food Service Director 
 
Lunenburg Primary School 
Town Report 2025 
Lunenburg Primary School is a student-centered early childhood school serving children from preschool 
through Grade 2. Educating students ages three through eight, we remain committed to fostering a nurturing, 
inclusive, and engaging environment where each child’s academic, social, and emotional development is 
supported. Our school community consists of students, families, educators, instructional assistants, and support 
staff working collaboratively to ensure that every child’s individual needs are met. By focusing on the whole 
child, we strive to cultivate strong foundational academic skills alongside the essential social-emotional 
competencies that prepare students for continued success throughout their educational journey. We are proud to 
maintain a welcoming and enriching atmosphere where all children feel valued and encouraged to reach their 
full potential, and we look forward to another year of shared growth, learning, and community. 
As of February 2026, Lunenburg Primary School reported a total enrollment of 406 students to the Department 
of Elementary and Secondary Education. This includes 65 preschool students attending various half-day 
94
===PAGE 99===
sessions across two classrooms. The school serves 110 Kindergarten students across five classrooms, with class 
sizes ranging from 21 to 23 students; 119 Grade 1 students across five classrooms, with class sizes of 23 to 24 
students; and 112 Grade 2 students across five classrooms, with class sizes ranging from 22 to 24 students. This 
structure ensures that each grade level is supported by dedicated classroom spaces designed to promote optimal 
learning conditions. We remain proud to provide a strong academic foundation that supports both student 
achievement and developmental growth. 
Throughout the 2025–2026 school year, our professional development efforts have centered on strengthening 
inclusive practices and refining high-quality instructional strategies. We continue to implement the HMH Into 
Reading and Into Math curricula to guide literacy and mathematics instruction. Common Planning Time 
remains a priority within our schedule, enabling teachers to collaborate regularly, analyze student performance 
data, and align instruction to meet the needs of all learners. In partnership with consultants and district 
curriculum coordinators, our staff continues to deepen the use of evidence-based practices and ensure a 
consistent and cohesive learning experience across grade levels. 
In addition to academic excellence, we place strong emphasis on cultivating a positive, inclusive, and 
supportive school culture. Our educators consistently work to create classroom environments where students 
feel safe, respected, and empowered. The Responsive Classroom model continues to be implemented school 
wide to strengthen community and promote social-emotional learning. We also maintain our commitment to 
Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), a tiered framework designed to enhance student 
behavior and engagement through aligned systems and practices. Monthly school wide themes encourage 
reflection and character development among students and staff. Through our continued partnership with our 
School Resource Officer and his emotional support canine, Hank, we celebrate students through the Hank’s 
Helper Awards, recognizing acts of kindness, respect, and helpfulness within our school community. During 
monthly assemblies, selected students also participate in “Snack with the Principal,” providing opportunities for 
small-group connection and student voice. These initiatives reflect our dedication to supporting both academic 
achievement and character development. 
Lunenburg Primary School remains committed to ensuring that all students receive the support necessary to 
succeed. We continue refining our tiered instructional system to provide timely and targeted interventions. 
Students in Kindergarten through Grade 2 participate in common reading and mathematics assessments in the 
fall, winter, and spring to monitor progress and evaluate instructional effectiveness. Using this data, we identify 
students who may require additional support and provide targeted interventions through our Multi-Tiered 
System of Supports (MTSS). This year, we were pleased to secure two no-cost reading intervention programs 
for the district:  High Dosage Tutoring and Hill for Literacy to further strengthen our literacy support services. 
Our MTSS framework provides individualized interventions in reading, mathematics, speech and language, 
occupational therapy, and social-emotional support. Through a comprehensive and data-driven approach, we 
aim to ensure that every student is equipped with the tools and resources needed to thrive. 
The Lunenburg Primary School Council continues to meet monthly to review school initiatives, advise the 
principal, and contribute to the development of the school improvement plan and building budget. The 2025–
2026 Council members include Principal Carla Squier; Assistant Principal Michael Smith; parents Skylar Joly-
Pelliter, Janet Winer, Sarah Wright, and Ryan Hilgendorf; School Committee Representative Mandy Gilman; 
and School Building Leadership Team members Jennifer Hochard, Amy Raffaele, Christa Palma, Julie Hudson, 
and Laura Refrigeri. The Council’s collaborative efforts and diverse perspectives ensure that decisions are made 
in the best interest of our students and school community. 
We are sincerely grateful for the opportunity to work alongside our dedicated district colleagues, supportive 
families, and engaged community partners in serving Lunenburg’s youngest learners. The continued 
collaboration and commitment of our school community make a meaningful difference in the lives of our 
students each day. For more information about Lunenburg Primary School, please visit the Lunenburg Primary 
School website. 
95
===PAGE 100===
Respectfully submitted, 
Carla Squier, Principal 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL STAFF ROSTER 
Carla Squier - Principal 
 
Second Grade Teachers 
Mike Smith - Asst. Principal 
 
2B - Julie Hudson  
Krissy Carbone - Admin Secty 
 
2C - Sara Kenney  
Chelsea Drake - Nurse 
 
2D - Nicole Bienvenu  
Vi-Anne Brown- Counselor / 
LCSW 
 
2E - Brittany Gibbons  
Eileen Ahern - Psychologist 
 
2F - Melissa Bourgeois   
  
Preschool  
 
Special Education 
Jessica Coelho- Teacher 
 
Michelle Withers – Special Ed 
K & 1 
                Sarah Call-Para 
 
Julie Drake - Para 
Linda Williams- Para 
 
Shannon Loughlin-Para   
Laura Refrigeri – Special Ed 1 
& 2 
Jennifer Hochard - Teacher 
 
Karen Turley-Para 
Mari Braithwaite- Para 
 
Kaitlin Clement-Para  
Candis Doucette - Para 
 
  
  
 
Unified Arts 
Achieve/TLC  
 
Derek Guimond-PE 
Brittany Pepoli - ACH Teacher 
 
Heidi Quinlivan-Art 
Melissa Nolan - Para 
 
Deborah DiFruscia-Music 
Sherry Williams - Para 
 
Tara Bastien-STEM 
Kristen Kosteki- Para 
 
  
Lyndsi Smith- Para 
 
Amanda Lucey-TLC Inclusion  
Alysia Batallas - Para     Maureen Dupuis-Para 
Alexis Wasiuk - TLC Teacher   Kelsey Bertram-Para 
Ivana Thompson - Para 
 
Serene Pease-Para 
Skye Abreu- Para 
 
  
Courtnay La Venture- Para 
 
Kindergarten Teachers  
K1-Nicholette Dumont 
 
Amy Shepherd-Para 
K2-Carly Guinee 
 
 
K3-Arabella Sauer  
 
Specialists 
K4-Deb Zivojinovic  
 
Mary Sieling-Speech 
K6-Amy Raffaele 
 
Sue Richards-Phys. Ther. 
 
 
Jayne Dusek-COTA 
First Grade Teachers 
 
Kat Barry-Grove-OT  
1A- Michael Courtemanche 
 
Mary Young-BCBA 
1B-Patti Kilcommins 
 
Elena Oksanish-Speech 
1C-Kara Slattery  
  
1D-Christa Palma 
 
Cafeteria 
1E-Jackie Favreau 
 
Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager 
 
 
Jessica McCarthy / Carol Jones 
ELL Teachers 
 
  
Meredith Weiss 
 
Facilities &Custodians 
Emily Ribble 
 
Chris Stevens-Director of 
Facilities 
 
 
Jose Marcial Allende 
Erin McNamara-Library/Media 
 
Jason Flinkstrom  
96
===PAGE 101===
 
  
MTSS 
 
SRO 
Beth Robinson 
 
Kam Munroe  
   
  Ext Day/ELC 
  Patty McCarthy-Guillette-
Director 
  Annette Queen & Natalie 
Marabello 
   
  CFCE Grant Program 
  Meaghan Lamachia 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
Town Report 2025 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School is an elementary school serving students in third grade through fifth grade.  As 
of Feb 2026, Turkey Hill Elementary School serves 355 enrolled students. There are five sections of grade 3, 
grade 4, and grade 5.  Grade 3 has 111 students. Grade 4 has 136 students and Grade 5 has 108 students. 
Our unified arts areas include physical education, art, music, library, and STEM. We are also served by a full 
time assistant principal, full time nurse, a psychologist, a full time adjustment counselor/social worker, and 21 
full time teachers.  Other support personnel who work across the district include an ELA coach (through 
December), a Math Specialist, a Director of Teaching and Learning, two EL teachers, a Speech and Language 
Pathologist, OT, and PT.  In addition, we have a half-time interventionist targeted support for small groups of 
students.  
Staff continually work on the development of the whole child by supporting students' development and growth 
in the areas of social emotional learning, literacy, math, social studies and science.  We are able to meet student 
needs with the support of the district curriculum of teaching and learning and the two coaches which enables 
teachers to have the opportunity to meet at grade levels to develop and provide evidence based instruction, 
common learning experiences, and student data analysis and share effective teaching strategies to support 
student academic growth.  Students continue to have benchmark assessments three times throughout the school 
year (beginning, middle and end of year) that are used to help us celebrate students’ academic growth and 
effort.   The data provided by these assessments also helps refine our focus for interventions.  We began the 
implementation of the OpenSci Ed curriculum with initial training and a trial unit.  The implementation will 
continue next school year.  
This fall our fifth grade students had their annual trip to Nature's Classroom. It was a successful week with good 
weather
, community building, and the creation of fond memories of a unique time together, thanks to the 
combined efforts of our entire fifth grade staff. 
We held an open house in September. It was a well-attended event and for many parents their first opportunity 
to be physically present in our building.  It was accompanied by a book fair facilitated by our librarian, Mrs. 
McNamara. Parent conferences in January offered both in person and virtual options and appointments were 
fully booked within a few days.  
We held our annual Penny Wars fundraiser, it was a huge success and the money raised will be put toward the 
purchase and installation of a shade structure in our playing field.  As always, our PTO assisted in the weeklong 
collection. We could not be successful without their efforts. We were able to bring back a fifth grade band and 
all students will be performing in an upcoming spring concert under the direction of our music teacher, Mr. 
Anthony Balester.  Turkey Hill also held its annual Turkey Trot in November.  Led by Mr. Derek Guimond, the 
Turkey Trot was a wonderful experience.  
97
===PAGE 102===
The Turkey Hill School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns.  Serving as an advisory 
group to the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and developing the 
school improvement plan.   
 
Members of the Council for the 2025-2026 school year are: 
Principal:                Norman Yvon 
Assistant Principal:   Bethann Cormier 
Teachers:      Kate Robinson, Rhonda Connery 
Parents:         Nichole Camelo, Steve Lahti, Katie Gingras 
 
Our school’
s success relies upon the combined and collaborative efforts of our wonderful staff, parents, and 
community members.  We continue to seek out opportunities to engage and effectively communicate with our 
families. I am honored to be your principal. 
For more information about the work that we do at the Turkey Hill Elementary School please visit our website: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/thms/welcome 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Norman P. Yvon, Principal 
THES STAFF ROSTER 
Administration/Office Room # Grade 3 Team Color 
Norman Yvon Principal Quinn Cavaco Red 
Bethann Cormier Assistant Principal Amy Harrington Red 
Alicia McAllister Adm. Secretary Nancy Murray Blue 
    Rich Bowen Blue 
    Erin Gyles  White 
Nurse/Health & 
Behavioral Health        
Elizabeth Schatia Nurse Grade 4  Team Color 
Kathleen Lantiegne Social Worker Erin Blanchette Blue 
Eileen Ahern Psychologist Danielle Celona Blue 
    Gina Cote White 
    Charlotte Guinto Red 
    Lynn Marabello Red 
Special Areas       
Anthony Balester Music Grade 5   
Derek Guimond Physical Education Narci Woods Red 
Heidi Quinlivan Art Brian Chartrand White 
Erin McNamara Library Rhonda Connery White 
Tara Bastien STEM Kate Robinson Blue 
    Heather Witham Blue 
        
Learning 
Center/Special 
Education       
Christine Defelice Gr. 3 Teacher Achieve/TLC   
Amy Sabbio Gr. 4 Teacher/MTSS Amber Gothie Teacher 
98
===PAGE 103===
Kristin Anthony Gr. 5 Teacher Allison Melvin  Achieve Para 
Meredith Weiss ELL Teacher Vicki Poulin Achieve/TLC Para 
Emily Ribble  ELL Teacher Kathy Jones Achieve Para  
Kathryn Barry-Grove Occupational Therapist Katie Donell Achieve/TLC Para 
Sue Richard PT Becky Staffiere Achieve/TLC Para 
Elena Oksanish Speech Samantha Price TLC Para 
Carol Saranich Speech Susie Suppa  TLC Para 
        
Grade level 
Paraprofessionals    Custodians   
Carrie Arciprete Gr. 3 Para  James Gentilella  Senior Custodian 
Kathy Cordeiro Gr. 4 Para  Paul Reddin  Custodian/Night 
Kerry Roder Gr. 5 Para  Scott Hoaglund  Custodian/Night 
 SRO    Maintenance   
Kamerin Munroe  SRO Tim McKenna  Maintenance 
Cafeteria  Norman Cormier Maintenance 
 Marlene Hoaglund   Ryan Leger Maintenance 
 Katherine Dunlap     
 Morgan Joslin      
 Katekyn Walsh     
      
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
Town Report 2025 
 
Lunenburg Middl
e School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support 
students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated, 
creative, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest 
communication. The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the 
philosophy of educating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by 
which all students become positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in high school 
and beyond. 
 Lunenburg Middle School is a co-located middle - high school serving grades six through eight. Our effective, 
student centered middle school embraces interdisciplinary teams of teachers that enable teachers to work with 
smaller groups of students. Smaller groups of students allow teachers to learn and engage students in their 
preferred learning style, making them more confident and successful. 
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of 
different interests and talents through special areas and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities. One of 
our goals is for students to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue exploring as they 
move through high school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for students that foster 
critical thinking and problem-solving skills that prepare them for high school and beyond or where their passion 
may lead them to. 
Our grade eight team of teachers continue to implement a schedule that mirrors the high school schedule. Our 
philosophy is to ease the difficult transition from middle school to the first year of high school by developing 
student’s independent skills they will require to be successful in high school. Grade eight teachers function as 
99
===PAGE 104===
one inclusive team where students take classes with a variety of different teachers as they would in a high 
school setting. This differs from our two interdisciplinary team of teachers that have been a successful model in 
grades six and seven.    
 Lunenburg Middle School has benefited from a top notch guidance support team. A guidance counselor and a 
school Adjustment Counselor coupled with our shared school psychologist has been able to provide a high level 
of social emotional support to our students and their families. Our guidance team has been able to meet the 
needs of our students while preparing them to be available for academic learning.  
                              2025 Spring MCAS Scores                        
Grade/Subject % Meeting or Exceeding % State Meeting or 
Exceeding 
Grade 6 ELA 47 42 
Grade 6 Math 51 41 
Grade 7 ELA 52 42 
Grade 7 Math 47 39 
Grade 8 ELA 55 44 
Grade 8 Math 42 38 
Grade 8 Sci/Tech/Eng 48 37 
Grade 8 Civics 59 39 
2025 Spring MCAS testing at LMS shows the percentage of students who scored in the “ meeting or 
Exceeding” category and then the column next to it shows our scores in comparison with the state scores in 
schools who service similar grade levels. As you can see, LMS scores are above the state percentage in all eight 
areas tested. In grade 8 Civics, a newly tested content area, our scores are 20 points higher than the state 
average, an impressive number. Lunenburg Middle School continues to be a high performing school when 
compared to other schools in the state that service similar grade levels.  
 
Athletics and clubs 
LMS successfully participated in middle school Field Hockey and Boys and Girls Cross Country and this winter 
we will continue with middle school basketball. The opportunities middle school sports provides students to 
participate, learn and become part of an effective team atmosphere is immeasurable. 
100
===PAGE 105===
Science Olympiad, Drama Club, Yearbook Club, Ski and Drama Club and middle school Student Government 
return as favorite activities for students to engage in. Student Government continues to provide opportunities for 
students to engage in age appropriate extracurricular activities like dances, spirit weeks and movie nights. 
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that ensure 
student success and promote a passion for lifelong learning. The key components to our success continue to be 
our talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community who 
support our teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to 
learning. Together we continue to make a difference in the lives of students. 
 
Lunenburg Middle School Staff Roster 2025 
Administration: 
 
6th Grade: 
Santry, Timothy – LMHS Principal 
 
Arsenault, Beth DH 
McGrath, Robert – LMS Assistant Principal 
 
Clarke, Emily 
Carpenter-Bowen, Mona – MS Secretary 
 
Reardon, Susan 
  
 
Pouliot, Melanie 
Guidance: Middle School 
 
Gardner, Andrea 
Antaya, Katherine - Grades 7 & 8 
 
  
 
 
7th Grade: 
Saranich, Carol  (Speech) 
 
Bertoni, Meagan 
Shea, Lori (Psychologist) 
 
Sheasgreen, Tim 
Tata, Toni (School Adjustment Counselor) Grade 6 
 
Diamantopoulas, Krista DH 
Young, Mary (Behaviorist) 
 
Grebinar, Dawn 
Health Office: 
 
Gaines, Nancy 
McGuire, Katie (nurse) 
 
 
  
 
8th Grade: 
Achieve: Middle School 
 
LeBlanc, Lisa 
Moore, Jamie 
 
Cormier, Meredith 
101
===PAGE 106===
Catalina, Christine (para) 
 
Rios, Jen 
Goldin, Chrissy (para) 
 
Rooney, Nicole 
Goode, Laurian (para) 
 
Notaro, Alma 
Malloy, John 
 
 
Ouellette, Jen (para) 
 
 Custodian: 
Russell, Jessica (para) 
 
 Lafontaine,Renee 
Garcia, Jennifer (para) 
 
  
 
 Cafeteria: 
Specialists: Middle School 
 
Terho, John 
Therrien, Nicole (PE) 
 
 
Matthew Marrazzo (PE) 
 Special Ed. Middle School: 
Sheldon, Geoffrey (Music) MS 
 
Lizek, Maura 6th DH 
Buiwit, Heather (Tech) MS 
 
Klingler, Terry (para) 
Warren, Robin (Art) MS 
 
 Barone, Judy (para) 
Vallee, Pam (Library) 
 
Mobley, Melanie 7th 
  
 
Cuddahy, Jamie (para) 
 
 
Strickland, Amy (para) 
 
 
 Fernandes, Ana Sophia 
 
 
 Nano, Kirsti 
 
 
 Ross, Nick (para) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
102
===PAGE 107===
 
Lunenburg High School 
Town Report 2025 
 
 
Lunenburg High School and its faculty continue to focus on rigorous curriculum, high standards and 
opportunities for students, both academic and extracurricular, so that every student feels supported and included 
in our community. LHS faculty is student centered in their teaching practices, and strive to learn and to change 
in order to best serve all of our students.  
 
2025 School Year 
 
Lunenburg High School is rich with tradition and core values that center around student success. A talented and 
experienced faculty are skilled in supporting students in their learning and creating an environment that fosters 
independence and resilience. Our goal is for students is to acquire the skills necessary to earn a high school 
diploma and be successful in post-secondary education as well as in the work force. 
  
A reduction in faculty and opportunities for student choice have challenged our school community to adapt and 
shift to best meet the ever changing needs of the students we serve. We continue with an upward trend in both 
the number of students taking Advanced Placement coursework as well as the percentage of students scoring a 3 
or higher in those courses.  
 
We have also developed programs that support students in their daily classroom instruction. We are fortunate to 
have an Intervention teacher that provides direct instruction to students who were identified by their teachers as 
to needing additional support to be successful in the classroom. Students receive instruction in the specific class 
or classes they are struggling in. The data show the students participating in the intervention classroom show 
substantial improvement in the completion of classwork and in their overall grades. 
 
MCAS RESULTS 
Lunenburg High School - Spring 2025 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
Subject Test Exceeding Expectations / 
Meeting Expectations 
State Average (EE/ME) 
ELA 58% 51% 
Math 53% 45% 
Science  46% 46% 
 
The results indicate the LHS percentage scores for meeting and exceeding expectations are at or higher than the 
state average in all tested areas. In mathematics, 8 percentage points higher than the state average when 
compared to schools who serve students in similar grade levels.  
 
We were also very pleased to learn that 29 students at Lunenburg High School received the state’s John and 
Abigail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose MCAS performance 
places them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one 
exam and Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English and Math exams.  That is approximately 30 
% of grade 10 students receiving the award.   
 
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
 
Homecoming weekend was a wonderful and well attended by students, families and alumni. The weather was 
beautiful and highlighted the community event. The parade was a huge success with a huge turnout to support 
103
===PAGE 108===
the school. Many community members noticed the care and time that were placed into the floats at each grade 
level.  The Blue Knights played well and won the football game and we always enjoy watching the LHMS 
Marching Band perform.    
 
Lunenburg High School Athletic Accomplishments 
Fall 
The golf team delivered an outstanding season, finishing 9-1 in league play and 10-1 overall in the postseason, 
earning the title of Mid Wach C League Champions. To cap off an exceptional year, one of our student-athletes 
was honored as the league MVP. 
 
The girls’ soccer team also enjoyed a remarkable season, posting an impressive league record of 8-1-3 and an 
overall postseason record of 13-2-3. Their consistent excellence earned them the title of Mid Wach C League 
Champions. 
 
The boys’ soccer team demonstrated tremendous resilience and perseverance throughout the season. While the 
record did not fully reflect their effort and growth, the team’s commitment to integrity and teamwork was 
recognized with the prestigious Sportsmanship Award for their league. 
The field hockey team finished in dominant fashion with an undefeated league record of 6-0-3, securing the Mid 
Wach C League Championship. They concluded the postseason with an outstanding 12-1-4 overall record and 
were further recognized by Central Mass officials for exemplary sportsmanship. 
 
The cross country program had another strong year. The girls’ team was recognized for outstanding 
sportsmanship in their league, while the boys’ team showed grit and determination through the final meets of 
the season. Two of our student-athletes were honored as Telegram & Gazette All-Stars, highlighting the 
program’s continued success. 
 
Football captured the Mid Wach E League Championship with an impressive 7-3 record. The team’s success 
was further highlighted by two student-athletes earning league MVP nominations. 
 
Cheerleading continued to build momentum this fall, earning placements at several competitions while also 
seeing encouraging growth in participation numbers. 
 
Unified basketball had an incredible season, culminating at the Fitchburg High School Jamboree. The event 
showcased the true spirit of unified athletics, as it was inspiring to see all of our student-athletes competing and 
celebrating together. 
 
At the middle school level, both cross country and field hockey enjoyed exciting seasons focused on skill 
development and growth. Coaches reported noticeable improvement and strong enthusiasm from our 
developing student-athletes. 
 
Winter 
The indoor track team has put together a tremendous season competing at both the Reggie Lewis Center and 
New Balance in Boston—elite venues that serve as the only sites where performances are officially recognized 
for meeting MIAA qualifying standards. The girls team achieved the remarkable distinction of being crowned 
Division 5 State Champions, while the boys team delivered an outstanding performance, finishing just behind 
them and placing 6th place out of 40 schools. Many hitting personal records and medaling at the meet. 
Boys basketball, currently holding an 11-7 record, has advanced to the finals of the Clark Tournament—one of 
the oldest and most respected tournaments in the country. This marks the program’s first finals appearance in 34 
years, with the team set to compete on February 20th. They have also secured a postseason berth as the #25 seed 
in Division 4. 
 
Girls basketball has also had a strong campaign, posting a 12-7 record and earning a Division 4 postseason 
104
===PAGE 109===
berth as the #20 seed. While they fell short in the Clark Tournament, the team’s consistent play has positioned 
them well for tournament competition. 
 
Winter cheer made an exciting return this year for the first time in several years, and participation numbers were 
strong. The team has played a key role in reigniting school spirit and bringing great energy and hype to boys 
basketball games. They have also attended several competitions this season and are eager to earn placements as 
the program continues to grow. 
 
The ski team, a cooperative program with Littleton, Narragansett, and Leominster, has competed well at 
multiple meets this season, with several student-athletes advancing to their respective tournaments. 
 
The ice hockey team, currently 12-6-1, has put together an impressive season and earned the #16 seed heading 
into postseason play. 
 
Our cooperative girls hockey team at Leominster High School includes three dedicated student-athletes from 
Lunenburg. The team is currently seeded #22 in Division 2 and will continue into postseason competition. 
 
Our middle school basketball teams recently concluded one of their most engaging seasons to date. With many 
new participants and clear skill development on display at home contests, the future of Blue Knights basketball 
looks extremely promising as these young student-athletes continue to grow and refine their game. 
CURRICULUM 
Teachers and administrators continue to refine, revise and create curriculum that is aligned to the state 
frameworks and is rigorous and challenging. This year’s focus is to teachers will be to engage in NEASC -
aligned curriculum work and unit planning to support coherent, standards -based instruction across content 
areas. Professional development time will be used to review, refine, and align instructional units to ensure 
consistency, intentional sequencing, and alignment with school wide expectations for teaching and learning.  
 
Lunenburg High School continues to provide a high quality education that ensures student success and 
promotes a passion for lifelong learning.  The key components to our success continue to be our talented 
faculty, our parents and our community members who support our teaching and learning. Most of all, our 
students who inspire us through their commitment to learning. Together we continue to make the difference in 
the lives of students.   
 
Lunenburg High School Faculty/Staff Roster 
Administration/Office Staff Title Administration/Office Staff Title 
Timothy Santry Principal Sandra Sheehy 
Guidance 
Secretary 
Karma Tousignant Assistant Principal   
Yanina Burns Assistant Principal Language Arts  
 Lisa Lavery  Nurse Timothy Macuga Teacher 
Math  Mike Estabrook Teacher 
Joshua Rusack Teacher Mary Foyle*  Teacher 
Andrew Cantatore Teacher Paul Harmon Teacher 
Jennifer Miller* Teacher Julia Callahan Teacher 
Eric Short Teacher   
Jennifer Morse Teacher Social Studies  
Jacob lanpher Teacher Warren Stevenson* Teacher 
  Bradford Hausler Teacher 
105
===PAGE 110===
Science  Casey McDonnell Teacher 
Dawn Gearin* Teacher Hailee Attorri Teacher 
Mitchell Friedman Teacher James McSweeney Teacher 
Craig Pingsterhaus Teacher   
Jennifer Biery Teacher Unified Arts  
Mark Hannah Teacher Alexis Pukaite Teacher 
  Steven Boone Teacher 
Foreign Language  Sarah McGregor Teacher 
Taylor Smith Teacher Scott Barry-Grove* Teacher 
Jessica Ayer* Teacher Amy Monahan Teacher 
Tamara Yourk Teacher Pamela Vallee Teacher 
 Lynn Radford Teacher   
  Athletic Director  
Special Services  Yanina Burns AD 
Joshua Koziol* Teacher   
Jessica Walker Teacher Athletic Secretary  
Bryan Speck Teacher Courtney Fuller Secretary 
Amanda Duggan Teacher   
Christina Conklin Teacher Media Specialist  
  Pamela Vallee Teacher 
Paraprofessionals    
James Hayner Para Guidance  
Kimberly Poli-Monsini Para Jeff Dionne Guidance 
Samantha Collyer Para Gail Okerman* Guidance 
Tricia Sicard Para Jonathan Ciullo Guidance 
Lisa Szocik-Maillett Para   
Dennis McDonnell Para Interventionist  
Joseph Adamowicz Para Meghan Arnold Teacher 
Lyndsi Smith Para   
  Cafeteria  
 Dana LeMarbre Para John Terho-Manager Cafe 
Lindsey Hughes Para Jen Cotoni Cafe 
Ashley Hale Para Eleni Tsiakalos Cafe 
    
  Renee LaFountaine Head Custodian 
  Richard Krafve Custodian 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
106
===PAGE 111===
 
  
107
===PAGE 112===
 
 
 
As the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District approaches its 
upcoming 60th anniversary, it is apparent that our school community refuses to rest on its 
past laurels and successes. Instead, Monty Tech continues to seek out and implement 
innovative strategies and partnerships that will best address our diverse student body’s 
post-secondary goals as they proceed on their workforce or educational pathways. 
Personally, it marked my eleventh year at Monty Tech and third as its very fortunate 
superintendent as I continue to be so appreciative of the commitment to success of our 
students, families, instructors, staff, administrators and community partners. As always, I 
am honored to provide our eighteen cities and towns with this annual report which 
summarizes the District’s achievements and innovations during the 2024-2025 school 
year. 
 
As the school year opened, Monty Tech experienced a welcome growth spurt as the District officially launched the 
inaugural year of the Montachusett Vocational Partnership (MVP) Academy. Created as an innovative proposal to 
address the building capacity issue that results in hundreds of students being deprived of the opportunity to be 
enrolled at Monty Tech, MVP Academy allowed nearly 80 juniors and seniors from three of our sending districts, 
the opportunity to receive workforce training in Electrical or House Carpentry during the school day while remaining 
enrolled in their sending school. Thus, as Monty Tech instructors and students worked to complete the renovation of 
the program’s future home, the initial MVP 
instruction began in an outdoor classroom 
located          on our main campus. As winter 
approached, however, the MVP students joined 
their Monty Tech peers to assist with the facility 
renovations and, in April 2025, Monty Tech 
welcomed dignitaries from throughout the 
commonwealth to simultaneously celebrate the 
grand opening of the MVP Academy and the 
graduation ceremony of the program’s first 40 
graduates. Looking ahead, the program hopes to 
expand by adding a third program, Plumbing, in the 
fall of 2026. 
 
Of course, innovative programs like MVP Academy are not possible without the District’s efforts to alleviate the 
burden of costly new initiatives that could fall on the eighteen cities and towns of our regional community. 
Consequently, in order to avoid that scenario, 2024-2025 became noteworthy as the District’s most successful in 
terms of accessing competitive grants from a variety of resources. This included opportunities involving 
cybersecurity, equitable access, workforce training in clean energy fields and for adults with disabilities, skills 
capital equipment, partnership/implementation programs, no-cost adult workforce training and even anonymous 
corporate partner donations. In total, during the 2024-2025 school year, Monty Tech was awarded almost $3.7 
million in external grants and donations. Such results clearly reflect the District’s commitment to offering innovative 
state-of-the-art workforce training to a variety of highly skilled workers while also being mindful of the financial 
implications such valuable training could have on our sending communities.  
 
Without question, the MVP program represents a significant expansion of workforce training that goes beyond our 
annual secondary-level training efforts. However, it is important to acknowledge the ongoing efforts of our post -
secondary training programs. For example, our Continuing Education program, also known as Monty Tech Nights, 
maintained its consecutive run of expanding enrollment across the spectrum of its offerings. Between the 2020-2021 
and the 2024-2025 school years, Monty Tech Nights has experienced 25-30% growth in its enrollment. An essential 
element of this growth has been the expanded offerings of our no- cost training through the Career Technical 
108
===PAGE 113===
Initiative (CTI). In 2024- 2025 alone, the efforts in CTI resulted in 108 graduates in HVAC, Plumbing, Auto Body 
and Carpentry. Furthermore, the District, once again, applied for the most recent round of grants through CTI and 
was awarded the Round 10 CTI grant. Meanwhile, in June, the District’s Practical Nursing Program held its 
ceremonial “pinning” of 45 graduates who completed their training during the 2024-2025 school year. Monty Tech 
takes great pride in the fact that so many of these well-trained nurses choose to work within our local communities as 
nearly half of the graduates reported that they would be working for local healthcare providers including Gardner 
Rehabilitation, The Highlands, Fitchburg Healthcare, Athol Hospital, Dept. of Developmental Services, CAPS 
Collaborative, Heyward Affiliated Medical Group, MCI Gardner, Wachusett Manor and Spring Hill Recovery 
Center. 
 
Additionally, while expansive programs like MVP Academy, Monty Tech Nights and the Practical Nursing Program 
are certainly elements of our district that we take great pride in supporting, we have the same sense of pride when it 
comes to the small individual equipment purchases or facility renovations that happen on a year- to-year basis. For 
example, during the 2024-2025 school year, through a variety of fiscal resources including annual Chapter 74 funds 
from state aid, Monty Tech introduced new appliances to our culinary program, supplemented the HVAC program’s 
energy efficiency equipment, installed new rooftop air conditioning equipment, replaced flooring in our student 
support classrooms and repaired the roof to our auditorium entry way. Such ongoing efforts to maintain a clean and 
safe learning environment, as well as a well -equipped instructional tool kit, are the backbone to ensuring that our 
students earn the industry recognized credentials and state/national SkillsUSA awards that indicate our vocational 
excellence. It should not be overlooked that, in 2024-2025, thanks to the wonderful support of our industry partners 
across the region, Monty Tech had a record- breaking year as 288 students were placed at cooperative learning sites 
allowing them to have real world industry training while earning money as an employee.  
 
Similarly, it is these critical efforts that allow for our consistent academic achievement as demonstrated by our 
MCAS Passing Rates (97% in ELA, 95% in Math and 95% in Biology) and our growing Advanced Placement 
results including 2024-2025 as Monty Tech experienced its highest number of AP exams administered (292), highest 
number of students earning a qualifying score (135) and, notably, nearly doubling the number of students who were 
designated AP Scholars for earning a qualifying score on three different AP exams (35). 
 
To conclude, while it is clear that there will be changes to traditional vocational school operations across the 
Commonwealth, Monty Tech will continue to focus on overall student achievement, outstanding instructional 
practice and the support for our sending communities. Without question, as an institution, we take great pride in the 
numerous achievements highlighted in this annual report, but we additionally acknowledge that our success as a 
school is dependent on the ongoing support of the civic leadership and residents of our eighteen communities. 
 
On behalf of everyone at Monty Tech, we are grateful for that continued support and greatly value the opportunity to 
be an educational partner to all of our communities.    
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Thomas R. Browne, Superintendent-Director 
               
109
===PAGE 114===
 
 Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School—known throughout the region as Monty Tech—
is a four-year career and technical high school serving eighteen member communities: 
 
 
Ashburnham 
Ashby 
Athol 
Barre 
Fitchburg 
Gardner 
Harvard 
Holden 
Hubbardston 
Lunenburg 
Petersham 
Phillipston 
Princeton 
Royalston 
Sterling 
Templeton 
Westminster 
Winchendon 
 
 
 
 
 
During the 2024-2025 school year, Monty Tech served 1,417 
students in grades 9 –12 across 21 rigorous vocational -
technical programs, with a balanced enrollment of male and 
female students representing a wide range of academic 
interests and achievements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110
