===PAGE 115===
Each year, Monty Tech’s Business Manager works in conjunction with the Superintendent and 22- member 
School Committee, to develop a cost -effective budget that reflects the values and priorities of the institution.  
The final fiscal year 2024- 2025 Educational Plan totaled $33,334,174 which represented a modest 2.46% 
increase over the 2023 -2024 Educational Plan.  Remarkably, Monty Tech has been able to deliver highly 
effective, meaningful academic and vocational training programs, operating on one of the Commonwealth’s 
more conservative budgets.  In fact, the FY25 budget exceeded the minimum spending required by 
Massachusetts General Law Chapter 70 by only 0.8%, while other Massachusetts vocational school districts 
operated on budgets that exceeded the FY25 Required Net School Spending by as much as 65%.  Further, a 
historical review of district expenses confirms a commitment to provide resources where they benefit 
students most – instruction.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While we are proud to offer vital education and training programs at a minimal cost to our member 
communities, we understand that vocational education is, in fact, more costly than a traditional, 
comprehensive academic program.  To that end, school officials pursue countless grant opportunities to 
expand and improve training programs each year.   For the fiscal year 2025, state and federal grant sources 
provided the district with $4,728,144.  Programs funded by these grants include: Special Education Services 
and Program Improvement, Title I Support, Perkins Occupational Education, Vocational Capital Equipment 
Enhancements, Student Support and Academic Enrichment, and No-Cost Evening Training Initiatives.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111
===PAGE 116===
Workforce
34%
4yr College
33%
2yr College
24%
Tech. School
4%
Military
3%
Other
2%
CLASS OF 2025 POST-GRADUATE PLANS
754
861 852 827 786
371 370 365 355 355
0
200
400
600
800
1000
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Students Applying for Admission
# applied # admitted
 
 
 
Like almost all vocational schools across 
Massachusetts, Monty Tech has a limited 
building capacity, which drives the school’s 
acceptance.  When more students apply for 
admission than there are available seats, 
Monty Tech has, for many years, relied on 
the state -approved admission policy to 
determine which students would be 
accepted.  Guided by the District 
Agreement, which ensures students from all 
eighteen sending communities are accepted annually, the school’s admission policy has undergone intense 
review.  In 2024- 2025, school leaders determined that the admission policy, which has always included 
scoring elements like grades, attendance, discipline, and even a personal interview, would change moving 
forward.  Beginning 2025-2026, students will be accepted by lottery, removing merit -based elements such as 
grades or discipline.  While we understand that a lottery will not address the overarching issue of capacity, 
we remain committed to increasing access through innovative programming, like MVP Academy and no-
cost training programs through the School of Continuing Education, which (combined ) provide vocational 
training to approximately 200 more students annually.  With a waitlist exceeding 400 students each year, we 
still have work to do and look forward to creative solutions and meaningful partnerships with area 
comprehensive school districts and even employers who can help us address increasing student interest and 
workforce demands across North Central MA.    
 
In our 60- year history, Monty Tech has 
earned a reputation for providing 
innovative, engaging lessons that produce 
students and graduates that feed our 
regional workforce.  While our reputation 
is strong, and our graduates are successful 
contributors, we are often met with the 
same questions – why do so many of your 
students go to college after graduation?  
Shouldn’t they be ready to enter the 
workforce?  At Monty Tech, first and 
foremost, we aim to provide students with 
a well-rounded high school education that 
prepares the student for both college and 
career pathways, because roughly half of our vocational programs require continued education and training 
to enter the labor market, earning a livable wage (i.e. Engineering Technology, Health Occupations, Early 
Childhood Education).  The other half of our vocational training programs do not require a college degree to 
be competitive in the workforce.  Students who graduate from programs such as Carpentry, Masonry, and 
Cosmetology are prepared for entry -level positions within their trades.  Having such a range of workforce 
training programs demands that we prepare students for college and/or career upon graduation.  It is not 
surprising, then, to see that 34% of the Class of 2025 entered the workforce, while another 57% enrolled at a 
2 or 4-year college or university.  What should be noted, though, are those students who do both.  So often 
students who enroll in a 2-year college (24% of the Class of 2025) are balancing their continued studies with 
part-time (or even full- time) employment.  Those students, no doubt, are relying on the skills they gained at 
Monty Tech, to help as they work their way through a degree program. 
112
===PAGE 117===
 
 
 
While students attending Monty Tech benefit from the hands -on, project -based learning that defines a 
vocational-technical high school experience, they are also held to the same rigorous academic expectations 
as their peers in comprehensive districts. At Monty Tech, we believe a well -rounded high school education 
includes both meaningful academic instruction and high- quality vocational training. Many of our vocational 
programs also require postsecondary education and industry-recognized credentials, making strong academic 
preparation essential for student success. We are proud of our students’ accomplishments in the classroom as 
well as in their vocational shops. 
Monty Tech students continue to demonstrate strong academic and postsecondary readiness outcomes while 
participating in a rigorous vocational -technical education. In the spring of 2025, 10th- grade students 
participated in the MCAS assessments in English Language Arts, Mathematics, and Biology. In addition, 
select 9th -grade students also took the MCAS Biology exam. Overall, students performed well across all 
subject areas, achieving passing rates of 97% in English Language Arts, 95% in Mathematics, and 95% in 
Biology. From an accountability perspective, Monty Tech continues to make moderate progress toward state 
targets, with average scaled scores exceeding 500 in all three subjects. Students performing at or above this 
level met grade- level expectations and are academically on track for success in their current 
coursework.  These outcomes align with Chapter 74 and DESE expectations that vocational -technical 
students demonstrate academic proficiency comparable to their peers in comprehensive districts while 
preparing for postsecondary education, training, and career 
pathways. 
 
When compar
ing Monty Tech’s results with Massachusetts and global performance, student outcomes 
Grade 10 English Language Arts     
  2022 2023 2024 2025 
Exceeding Expectations 7 11 13 8 
Meeting Expectations 54 56 57 55 
Partially Meeting Expectations 38 32 27 34 
Not Meeting Expectations 1 2 3 3 
Grade 10 Mathematics     
  2022 2023 2024 2025 
Exceeding Expectations 8 3 8 9 
Meeting Expectations 45 55 48 42 
Partially Meeting Expectations 43 40 39 44 
Not Meeting Expectations 4 2 5 4 
     
Grade 10 Science     
  2022 2023 2024 2025 
Exceeding Expectations 12 11 13 17 
Meeting Expectations 54 51 51 45 
Partially Meeting Expectations 29 37 33 33 
Not Meeting Expectations 5 2 3 5 
Monty Tech students also demonstrated 
outstanding achievement on Advanced 
Placement (AP) exams. Participation 
continues to increase, with 192 students 
taking AP courses and a record total of 
292 AP exams administered.  
As a 
result, a record number of students—135 
in total—earned qualifying scores of 3 
or higher, making them eligible to 
receive college credit. These results 
reflect our continued commitment to 
providing rigorous academic 
opportunities that support both college 
and career pathways and prepare 
students for long-term success.  
 
The subjects with the highest number of 
students earning qualifying scores 
included AP English Language & 
Composition (41 students), AP English 
Literature & Composition (40 students), 
AP Psychology & AP Statistics (both 
with 21 students). 
113
===PAGE 118===
exceeded state and/or global qualifying score percentages in three subject areas: 
 
• AP Research: 100% of students earned qualifying scores 
• AP English Language & Composition: 86% of students earned qualifying scores 
• AP Environmental Science: 85.7% of students earned qualifying scores  
Notably, Monty Tech had 35 AP Scholars, nearly double the 19 AP Scholars 
recognized following the 2024 AP exams. AP Scholars earn qualifying scores of 3 or 
higher on at least three AP exams.  
Monty Tech continues to offer a broad range of Advanced Placement opportunities 
across multiple content areas, to include:  English: AP English Literature & 
Composition, AP English Language & Composition, English 10 AP Seminar 
(planned for 2025–2026); Mathematics: AP Calculus, AP Statistics, AP Pre-Calculus 
(planned for 2026 -2027); Science: AP Environmental Science, AP Chemistry, AP 
Physics; and Electives: AP Seminar, AP Research, AP Psychology. 
These results underscore the dedication of our staff and the effectiveness of district -wide curriculum 
alignment, instructional support, and targeted professional development. In addition, several Advanced 
Placement courses were taught by new instructors or teachers in their first few years of delivering AP 
content. As these instructors and newly implemented courses continue to develop, Monty Tech anticipates 
sustained improvement in student performance and exam outcomes over time.   
While AP exam scores play an important role in earning college credit, the greatest value of Advanced 
Placement courses lies in the academic experience of the curriculum itself. AP coursework engages students 
in college-level reading, writing, problem -solving, and critical thinking, helping them develop the skills and 
habits needed for success in postsecondary education. Through sustained inquiry and rigorous instruction, 
students gain confidence, resilience, and a deeper understanding of their subject areas —benefits that extend 
well beyond the exam. 
These efforts reflect the district’s commitment to equity and access by intentionally expanding high-quality 
Advanced Placement opportunities for a broader and more diverse group of students, supported through 
structured teacher mentoring, collaborative planning, and ongoing professional development aligned to AP 
frameworks and Massachusetts standards. During the 2024- 2025 school year, Monty Tech implemented a 
new AP Psychology course and plans to launch English 10 AP Seminar in the 2025–2026 school year. In 
addition, the continued incorporation of new and updated instructional materials and curricula to expand 
STEM opportunities —through PLTW, AP, and dual enrollment options, particularly in mathematics and 
science—remains a strong priority as the district strengthens inclusive college and career readiness pathways 
for all students. 
Monty Tech also continues to offer a variety of after -school dual enrollment opportunities, expanding access 
to school-day dual enrollment, with a particular focus on strengthening STEM pathways for students. 
Monty Tech maintains a long-standing partnership with Mount Wachusett Community College 
through the Introduction to Biotechnology course, providing students with the opportunity to 
earn college credit upon successful completion. 
114
===PAGE 119===
Monty Tech will further expand its post -secondary partnerships by offering college credit 
through a four-year institution for the first time. Students who successfully complete Concepts 
in Biology and Anatomy & Physiology will earn college credit through a partnership with 
Worcester State University. This milestone reflects the continued strengthening of Monty 
Tech’s postsecondary collaborations and underscores the district’s commitment to expanding 
equitable access to rigorous, college-level learning opportunities. 
While Monty Tech’s academic programs continue to evolve, the district maintains a strong commitment to 
equity and access by intentionally supporting and honoring the language proficiency of our multilingual 
students. Monty Tech is a proud participant in the Massachusetts State Seal of 
Biliteracy program, which recognizes multilingualism as an asset and promotes 
equitable access to postsecondary and career opportunities for English Learners. 
In its inaugural year of participation, Monty Tech demonstrated strong outcomes. 
All participating seniors earned the Massachusetts Seal of Biliteracy, with students 
earning the Seal in Spanish and French, and one student also earning the Seal of 
Distinction in Haitian Creole. Overall, 77% of test takers earned the Seal, reflecting 
a high level of language proficiency among participating students. In addition, a 
Monty Tech staff member earned the Seal of Biliteracy with Distinction in Spanish, further modeling the 
value of multilingualism within our school community.  
This DESE- recognized credential affirms students’ attainment of high levels of English proficiency 
alongside another language, strengthens college and career readiness, and enhances students’ 
competitiveness in the workforce and global economy. Monty Tech remains committed to providing English 
Learners with inclusive, standards -aligned instruction and multiple pathways to demonstrate mastery, while 
celebrating the linguistic and cultural diversity that enriches our school community. 
Finally, 2024- 2025 brought much- needed enhancements and renovations to Monty Tech’s science 
department.  A storage expansion project added new cabinetry to six science labs, with cabinets designed and 
constructed by Monty Tech students.  Seven of the school’s twelve science laboratories have received new 
laboratory cabinetry, instructional workstations, and specialized equipment to ensure alignment with current 
safety standards, instructional expectations, and the Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks.  Each year, 
science instructors work closely with the Director of Academic Programs to determine facility and 
professional development needs that would enhance the student experience and improve outcomes.  With 
continued support from Massachusetts Life Sciences Center, Monty Tech aims to further integrate state -of-
the-art technology into the science program, bringing students the latest technology.   
At Monty Tech we understand 
students work and learn best when 
introduced to materials in a variety 
of ways, so, to compliment lectures 
and with grant support from our 
industry partners, students will be 
introduced to all new STEM 
experiences through AR/VR 
technology products, engaging with 
fully interactive, visual content  in 
Biology, Anatomy and Physiology 
coursework.     
115
===PAGE 120===
Introducing students to new technology and learning platform s that include 3D gross and micro -anatomy 
views, histology slides, illustrations, and animations, will bring science lessons to life, adding to the 
improved science/STEM educational experience for all Monty Tech students.   
 
There is something special about a Massachusetts vocational school.  Our students have chosen this path to 
not only grow and learn in a traditional academic sense, but also to develop lifelong skills in one of the 
twenty-one vocational programs available.  Our vocational instructors are expert tradesmen and women, 
first.  They are proud of their vocations and have a vested interest in training the next generation of their 
workforce.  Each year, students are introduced to a variety of hands -on learning opportunities, that may 
occur on campus (fixing and replacing lights or the water fountains in the hallways) or off -campus 
(completely retrofitting an old warehouse to create a state -of-the-art training space).  Their high school years 
are marked with successes that may point back to years from now, knowing they have made an impact here 
at Monty Tech and in their own communities. The following are some of the more notable accomplishments 
across our vocational programs. 
 
Advanced Manufacturing:  Advanced Manufacturing students now work and learn in a state -of-the-art 
machine shop and have the opportunity to earn a number of industry- recognized credentials to demonstrate 
their technical capacity. All junior students completed the NC3 PMI 6 Certification.   These students have six 
stackable credentials in measuring. The seniors have earned six stackable credentials in Advanced Measuring 
Instrument this year, which expands upon the PMI credentials into more advanced measuring skills. Over 
two hundred credentials in metrology were earned. All Freshman students successfully completed safety 
training earning Career Safe OSHA 10 -hour general industry certification. We completed many projects for 
the community including tags for the Royalston Fire Department, and a plaque for the Town of Ashburnham. 
Fourteen Seniors and eleven Juniors earned co -op placements, working and learning in area machine shops. 
(Total student enrollment: 50) 
  
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology:   Monty Tech Auto Body students earned valuable industry 
credentials in the 2024-2025 School year. Students earned the OSHA 10-hour general industry card, EPA 6H 
spray certification, and ALI Certification. Students also earned I -CAR Certifications in Collision Repair 
Fundamentals, Disassembly and Re-assembly, Plastic Repair, Aluminum and Steel Small Dent Removal, and 
Preparation for Refinishing. Seven Seniors and three juniors earned co -op placements and were reported to 
be valuable contributors to local repair shops in the area. One Junior was placed on externship at the Gardner 
Fire Dept. At the SkillsUSA District Competition, seven out of nine students won a medal, earning a silver 
and gold in Auto Refinishing and Collision Repair. Two students were able to attend the SkillsUSA National 
Competition. We maintained several school vans, and painted multiple railings, stairs, and brackets for our 
MVP building. We painted a UTV for the Gardner Fire Department, repaired water leaks from a Petersham 
Police car, and repaired a car for Second Chance Cars to be given to a local family in need. We are currently 
working on a 1968 Ford Bronco, which will be auctioned off, and all proceeds will be donated to the Teen 
Challenge of New England.  (Total student enrollment: 67) 
  
Automotive Technology:  In Automotive Technology we 
serviced, repaired, and diagnosed approximately three hundred 
vehicles throughout the year.  These jobs included basic 
maintenance, inspections, alignments, brakes, exhaust, tires, and 
more. We also serviced the Petersham Police Department 
vehicle. The Upperclassmen earned their NC3/Snap on Apollo 
D8 Certification, Juniors earned their NC3/Snap on Multimeter 
certification, and the freshmen students earned the Career Safe 
116
===PAGE 121===
OSHA 10 Certification. Seven Seniors and one junior earned a Co- op placement. For the SkillsUSA 
Competition, our Junior students placed third and fifteenth. While two Seniors placed fifth and fifteenth in 
the State Competition.   (Total student enrollment: 69)  
  
Business Technology: Monty Tech’s Business Technology program continues to thrive through its financial 
literacy initiatives. All Juniors and Seniors earned a financial literacy certificate through the MassMutual 
Foundation FutureSmart program. This year, one student represented the program in the Customer Service 
competition at the SkillsUSA District level. In addition, four Seniors and seven Juniors secured co -op 
placements for the 2024–2025 school year. Freshmen and Sophomores successfully completed the Career 
Safe OSHA 10 -hour training and CareerSafe Interview Skills modules. The department also engaged in 
several collaborative projects: a Macy’s Day Parade project with Information Technology, an Oreo Cookie 
Redesign project with Culinary and Advanced Manufacturing, and an International Hotel Project with CAD 
Drafting & Design. Weekly case studies have been introduced to highlight companies, product development, 
and international relations. These activities foster teamwork, communication, and collaboration both within 
Business Technology and across other technical areas. (Total student enrollment: 58) 
  
Cabinetmaking: Monty Tech Cabinetmaking students are called upon for a number of projects small and 
large, across the campus and in our communities. During the 2024- 2025 school year, students completed 
projects that included: build and install cabinets and countertops for the MVP Academy, build and install 
cabinets and countertops for the new IT office, and the existing dental shop. A number of projects were made 
for charitable gifts such as, flag shadow boxes for veterans, a toy box for the Christmas toy drive, and a coat 
storage unit for the Monty Tech Foundation. Fourteen Seniors & Thirteen Juniors earned co- op placements, 
representing the program well in the local workforce. Cabinetmaking freshmen completed OSHA Careersafe 
10 hr online course. (Total student enrollment: 70) 
 
CAD/Drafting & Design:  In 2024-2025, five Monty Tech CAD/Drafting & Design Senior students and one 
Junior earned Co-op Placement. Students were also able to achieve a number of valuable industry-recognized 
certifications including Autodesk Inventor, Revit, Autodesk AutoCAD and SolidWorks. Freshmen students 
completed the 10hr OSHA CareerSafe Online course. All students earned the Fundamental of Building 
Green Certifications. Two students competed in the SkillsUSA District Competition. The shop completed a 
variety of signs, banners, and posters for the school. We collaborated with Business Technology for a hotel 
design project and website. We designed the addition to the Phillipston Animal Control Facility. (Total 
student enrollment: 45) 
  
Cosmetology:  The Monty Tech Cosmetology program is one of the only programs that students may leave 
and directly enter the industry, fully-licensed and ready for a career.  The state-approved program is rigorous 
and provides students with countless opportunities to refine their cosmetology skills on clientele who 
understand and appreciate the learning environment. Freshmen completed the Career Safe Online OSHA 
course. Eighteen senior students earned their cosmetology licenses. Seven students earned Co- op Placement 
opportunities. One Senior placed Gold in SkillsUSA Districts and went to the SkillsUSA State Competition. 
Students earned certification in Pravana Color Certification, barbicide, and dermalogica certifications. Two 
Junior students went to SkillsUSA State Competition. Freshmen and Sophomores participated in Family & 
Friends Service Day. We participated in Beauty Battles at Worcester Voke, in which several sophomores 
won 1st & 2nd in nails and 1st in textured hair. One junior 
placed 1st for formal hair. (Total student enrollment: 85) 
  
Culinary Arts:  Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and 
instructors operate a full-service restaurant and bakery, serving 
70-90 patrons daily.  In September, they hosted a Welcome 
Back/New Teachers reception serving hors d’oeuvres and mini 
pastries for 60 people after school.  They prepared a luncheon 
for Principals & Counselors Day for 30 people in 
117
===PAGE 122===
October.  They prepared dinner for both Program Advisory Dinner/meetings for over 380 people each time. 
Students and staff hosted the Westminster Senior Center holiday party for 110 people, funded by the Ryan 
Patrick Jones Foundation. The program also continued to donate leftover baked goods to the Salvation Army 
of Fitchburg. Freshmen earned their Career Safe OSHA 10 hour Culinary certification, sophomores & 
juniors earned their Allergen Awareness certification, and juniors and seniors earned their Servsafe 
certification. One Senior competed at the state level in the SkillsUSA cooking competition. Junior students 
toured Johnson & Wales University of Providence RI. Sophomores students went to Great Wolf Lodge in 
Fitchburg where they toured the property and learned about the hotel industry and career opportunities.  
(Total student enrollment: 66)  
  
Dental Assisting: Monty Tech Dental Assisting instructors have emphasized the need for students to earn 
valuable industry-recognized credentials, as a means to demonstrate technical skill and proficiency.  In 2024-
2025, students obtained their certificate from CDC for Infection Control. Sophomores & Seniors received 
certification from American Red Cross for Basic Life support, and all freshmen received the Career Safe 10 
Hour OSHA. Eight Seniors and seven Juniors earned co- op placements, while the remaining Juniors and 
Seniors earned experience in affiliation/externship in area dental clinics and offices. Through the Community 
Health Connections Caring for Kids Program, Monty Tech students could receive free dental cleaning, 
radiographs, and sealants.  Our students were allowed to assist in their procedure. Junior students provided 
dental education for the pre-school children at the Guild of St. Agnes at Devens and Head Start in Fitchburg. 
One Senior received a gold medal to go to SkillsUSA states competition. (Total student enrollment: 60) 
  
Early Childhood Education:  Seven Seniors & eight Juniors earned co- op placements, gaining valuable 
experience working with young children in local childcare centers. Two Seniors and one Junior gained 
experience on externships. All Sophomore & Seniors completed their Pediatric and Adult First 
Aid/CPR/AED training.  Four Seniors have earned the Child Development Associate National certification. 
Six Seniors earned the MA Department of Early Education and Care Teacher certification. Nine juniors 
completed the 12 hour MA Strongstart Early Education and Care Essential Training. We hosted a mock baby 
shower with donations of diapers & wipes being donated to Montachusett Opportunity Council to benefit 
families in the community. Sophomores & juniors assisted in Head Start Preschool classrooms to acquire 
training hours for the national certification. Three Juniors went to SkillsUSA Districts, one junior placed 
bronze at States. All Freshmen completed the Career Safe 10 hr OSHA. We went on a field trip to the Eric 
Carle Museum to learn about children's literature and illustration and another Field trip to Turn BackTime (a 
nature-based education center) in Paxton to explore outdoor classroom environments. (Total student 
enrollment: 41) 
  
Electrical: Throughout 2024- 2025, students and instructors in the Monty Tech Electrical program wired 
numerous electrical projects within the school. The Majority of Seniors & fourteen Juniors earned Co-op 
placement, which allowed them to gain important on-the- job skills and additional training in the industry. 
Students and instructors completed the wiring at the MVP Academy building. We wired mini -splits for the 
American Legion in Baldwinville. The Freshman class was filled with 24 first choice students, and all 
successfully completed the Career Safe 10 -hour OSHA training and certification. (Total student   enrollment: 
95) 
  
Engineering Technology:  The Engineering Technology 
program at Monty Tech is a rigorous program, infused 
with a nationally certified curriculum provided by Project 
Lead the Way, and countless hands -on learning 
opportunities that provide students with opportunities to 
demonstrate creativity, make connections with prior 
learning, earn college credits, and industry recognized 
certifications. Seven Seniors earned Co-op placement. All 
Freshmen completed the OSHA 10-hour General Industry 
118
===PAGE 123===
training and certification program. Students competed in SkillsUSA Districts. 17 Students earned SACA 
Industry Certifications. (Total student enrollment: 54) 
  
Graphic Communications:  Throughout the 2024-2025 
school year, students in the Graphic Communications 
program produced over 300 projects for our district cities 
and towns, and a variety of non- profit organizations within 
the district. Our copy center ran throughout the school year 
providing printed materials for the school. We completed a 
268-page full color yearbook for Monty Tech. Two Seniors 
and one junior were on Co- op, which allowed them to 
continue their on -the-job training in a real -world work 
setting. Ten students medaled in 5 competitions in 
SkillsUSA district competition; 7 medaled in States; and 2 
students are going to Nationals. One student for Pin Design 
and the other for Dye Sublimation. This is the 4th year in a 
row returning to Nationals. All Freshmen completed their OSHA 10 certification. All of the seniors 
presented their senior thesis project at the end of the year to the community and industry professionals (Total 
student enrollment: 84)  
  
Health Occupations:  The Health Occupations program continues to be one of the more competitive 
programs here at Monty Tech, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and 
practice, balanced by hands-on learning opportunities in the on- site Sim Lab and through the use of state -of-
the-art Anatomage technology.  We continue to improve the instructional spaces, technology and equipment 
for student training purposes. 25 Seniors were partnered with area clinics, through the co- op program, where 
they continued to learn and flourish in their chosen field, while back on campus, students focused on 
achieving important industry- recognized credentials. 17 Students passed their Clinical Medical Assistant 
exam to become nationally certified medical assistants. 14 Juniors passed their Nurse Aide Exam.   All 
Sophomores obtained their CPR, First Aid, and Alzheimer’s Association Certification. All Freshmen 
completed the 10 Hour Career Safe OSHA Certification. We had two students compete in SkillsUSA state 
competition. We held the Pediatric Health Fair and the Women’s Resource Mock Baby Shower. (Total 
student enrollment: 110) 
  
House Carpentry: Monty Tech House Carpentry program completed a number of projects, large and small 
during this 2024- 2025 school year. We completed the renovations of the MVP Academy building. We 
continue to support local charitable organizations with donations of our Adirondack chairs built by the 
Freshmen in the program. All Juniors received their Hot Works Certification. Nine Seniors & Eight Juniors 
participated in the Co -op program this year. Sophomores received their OSHA 10 hr Construction 
Certifications. Freshmen received their Career Safe OSHA 10 Certification. Sophomores completed a 
custom-built wedding arbor for a community member. The first shed of the newly revamped shed building 
program was raffled off and the sophomores have started work on the next one. Freshmen are using leftover 
cypress scraps to build small planter boxes that are being sold in the MT Greenhouse. (Total student 
enrollment: 69) 
  
HVAC & Property Maintenance: In 2024- 2025, Monty Tech’s HVAC & Property Maintenance junior 
student was chosen to be a "delegate" for SkillsUSA Nationals. Our shop sent 2 sophomores to states for 
Facilithon and 1 junior for sheet metal. This was the third year Monty Tech competed in the Facilithon, 
Leadership in Facilities Management competition for the SkillsUSA competition. Five Seniors & seven 
juniors earned Co-op placement in area businesses. All Juniors earned EPA Universal License to work with 
HVAC Refrigerants and their Hot Works Certification. Freshmen completed the Career Safe OSHA 10 hr 
General Industry Certification & Sophomore completed OSHA 10 hr Construction. Sophomores completed a 
3 day Building Science and Energy auditing course, earning 2 new industry credentials (GPRO, BPI, and 
119
===PAGE 124===
Health Homes). These certificates open the door to positions in energy auditing companies, as well as, 
weatherization and insulation jobs. Seniors completed the R410a Certification as well as an Indoor Air 
Quality Certification. We serviced leaf blowers, string trimmers and a generator. At the new MVP Academy, 
our shop completed a total of 9 heating and AC systems as well as 2 building fresh air ventilation systems. 
We installed a second commercial heat pump system at the American Legion in Baldwinville.  (Total student 
enrollment: 69) 
  
Information Technology:  The Information Technology program continues to offer students opportunities 
to earn a wide range of industry- recognized certifications that affirm the technical skill proficiency needed 
for entry-level careers in networking and information technology.  In 2024-2025, all Freshmen completed the 
Career Safe OSHA 10 -hour General Industry training. One Senior competed in the SkillsUSA State 
Competition. Four Seniors and one Junior were on co- op placements applying their technical skills in area 
businesses. Eight seniors achieved their Cisco Intro to Networks course certification. An open team of 4 
Seniors and one Junior achieved 1st Place Gold Tier award in the Cyberpatriot National Youth Cyber 
Education State Competition. Two seniors won 2nd and 3rd place State Awards in the Competition. Students 
in the Sophomore class designed a website for the MT Greenhouse. We also fixed computer hardware for 
individuals in the community. (Total student enrollment: 34) 
   
Masonry:  The talents of Monty Tech Masonry students 
are on display throughout district communities, as 
projects that were completed during the 2024-2025 
school year include: completing work at the MVP 
Academy, Repairs for Winchendon Housing, Concrete 
work for Hubbardston DPW, paver patio at Clarke 
Memorial in Winchendon. Sophomores received their 10 
hr OSHA Construction Certification, and freshmen 
completed their Career Safe 10hr Industry Certification. 
Juniors and Seniors were Hot Works Certified. Six 
seniors and four juniors earned co- op placements and 
continued to refine their skills working with business 
partners through the school’s co -op program.  The 
Masonry Students competed in the Mass Trowel Trades 
Competition at Bay Path and had four students compete in various competitions at the annual SkillsUSA 
meeting. (Total student enrollment: 68)  
 
Plumbing: For the 2024- 2025 school year, Students and instructors completed the work at the MVP 
Academy building. Students also worked fixing numerous plumbing issues within the Monty Tech building. 
Juniors successfully completed their HotWorks safety training and earned that important credential. 
Freshmen also completed the Career Safe 10 -hour OSHA general industry safety training, while Sophomore 
students completed the 10- hour OSHA Construction safety training and certification. Nine Seniors and six 
Juniors earned co- op placements, which allowed them to continue to grow in the trade, working with 
plumbing professionals in the area. Sophomores and Seniors were trained in Viega PEX/copper press, 
earning a valuable certification. One Senior earned the PHCC 2026 Vocational Plumbing All Star Award, 
given by the Plumbing, Heating, and Cooling Contractors Association of Massachusetts. He received a 
scholarship for his continuing education in the plumbing licensure program and a fine set of tools. Another 
senior was awarded the Central Mass Plumbing & Gas Inspectors Association $500 Scholarship. This will be 
applied to his continuing education in the profession. (Total student enrollment: 74) 
  
Veterinary Science:   For the 2024- 2025 school year, the Monty Tech Veterinary Clinic completed 
approximately 900 appointments, seeing 668 dogs and cats and servicing 284 district families. We are so 
happy to be helping so many clients and patients in need. Twelve seniors and three juniors earned co-op 
placement. Twenty seniors passed the Recover CPR, Fear Free Level 1 and seven seniors completed the 
120
===PAGE 125===
Human Animal Bond Certification. All juniors passed their Certified Veterinary Assistant Exam. For 
SkillsUSA, two freshmen competed at the state competition in Safety Poster Design. All freshmen completed 
the Career Safe OSHA 10 hr General Industry course. (Total student enrollment: 79) 
  
Welding/Metal Fabrication:  The Welding/Metal Fabrication Department 
completed over twenty community service projects in the 2024- 2025 school 
year. We completed projects for the MVP Academy Building by making 
staircases with railings, roof support beams with saddles, frames for concrete 
decking, handrails with guardrail for mezzanine staircase, guardrails for the 
upper mezzanine, lockable conduit rack for electrical, wire reel rack for 
electrical, and other miscellaneous parts. We fabricated and donated three fire 
pits to the community. Three juniors also earned the AWS FCAW 1G E71T -C 
Certification. Three juniors and thirteen seniors earned Co- op placements. 
Juniors completed the Hot Works Certification, and all freshmen students 
completed the Career Safe OSHA 10 -hour Construction Certification. One 
junior received a Bronze medal in SkillsUSA Districts. One student earned the 
Defense/Military Welding Certification in Aluminum GTAW. (Total student 
enrollment: 62)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Monty Tech Cooperative Education Program is an extension of the student’s technical education that 
combines classroom instruction  with on-the-job-training.  The popular Co-op Program provides students 
with an opportunity to further develop academic, technical and employability skills in an industry- related 
33
61 70
93
138
51
97 109
162
194
92
119 125
176
223
127
147 156
202
235
119
168
228
288
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
September October December February May
Students Participating in the Cooperative Education Program
2020-2021
2021-2022
2022-2023
2023-2024
2024-2025
121
===PAGE 126===
work environment. All students are eligible to participate in  the Co-op Program, provided they satisfy state 
and school grade, attendance and performance requirements, and all Co-op students must have completed the 
OSHA recognized Career Safe online health and safety course prior to being placed in a work environment. 
 The Cooperative Education Program is beneficial for both students  and employers.  For the student, it is a 
chance to gain on-the-job training  that improves both their technical proficiency  and employability skills, 
and making industry connections enhances post -graduate employment opportunities.  The Co -op Program 
also allows students to earn while they learn, which has allowed many students to learn valuable life skills, 
financial literacy skills, and gain a deeper understanding of the importance of career advancement and self -
advocacy. 
  
Employer benefits include addressing workforce needs in an efficient manner.  Co -op students provide a 
pool of trained talent, ready to assume temporary, part -time or even full -time opportunities, thus reducing 
employer training costs.   Co-op work hours may also be tailored to suit the needs of partnering employers. 
  
With approximately 100 area employers participating in Cooperative Education, providing valuable 
experience to 286 students by the end of the 2024/2025 school year, school officials remain grateful for their 
continued support, and look forward to future collaborations.  
    
 
 
Monty Tech’s Department of Student Support Services houses the district’s school counseling services, 
oversees special education programming, and maintains efforts to provide social/emotional learning and 
resources to all students.  Throughout the 2025-2026 school year, department staff continued to prioritize the 
district's effort to educate and develop the next generation 
of young adults, ensuring students have access to support in 
academic and vocational programming, as well as services 
related to social and emotional wellness.   
 
Throughout an individual's high school career, Monty Tech 
offers numerous opportunities and support for individuals 
to explore vocational interests, develop skills, and make 
strides in personal growth and independence.  All students 
establish goals and identify pathway interests that align 
with DESE’s MyCAP (My Career and Academic Plan) 
initiative. Additionally, our trained and compassionate staff 
work to provide structured support for students as they 
acclimate to the demands, pace and rigor of high school 
academics, vocational programming and extracurricular activities.   
 
Balancing curriculum and course pathways with current social norms, Monty Tech recognizes young adults 
are growing up in a world that is rapidly changing.  With increased exposure to technology and social media, 
the means in which young adults communicate and connect has shifted.  With that, the foundational skills 
and social norms have also changed, taking on an array of variances that schools must recognize and address 
to effectively prepare students to be successful young adults.  
  
Recognizing the shift in experiences and brain development, Monty Tech has focused support on the 
growing concerns and struggles with age -appropriate interactions, use of social media, and the need for 
meaningful connections. The Department of Student Support has concentrated its efforts on creating a safe 
and supportive environment, offering opportunities and experiences that challenge our students to reflect, 
122
===PAGE 127===
grow, and learn in all areas of their experiences.  The department continued its important mission to break 
the stigma of mental health, shifting our perspective to find balance and mental wellness. This unified 
approach, support, and collaboration helps our student body develop socially, build resilience, communicate 
effectively, grow individually and meet success.      
  
 
Monty Tech has joined forces with CareSolace , matching individuals with mental 
health and/or substance abuse counselors.  CareSolace Coordinators address the 
growing need to locate support and match individuals with therapists, saving students 
and families hours of time, phone calls, waitlists and frustration.  CareSolace 
supports the matching process and follows up with individuals to ensure each 
connection was a success.   Most importantly, CareSolace Match Services are free to 
our students, family, staff and community: https://caresolace.com/site/montytech.    
  
During the 2024 -2025 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District provided 
specialized services to approximately three hundred students – measuring progress of over two hundred 
students on Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and approximately one hundred students adhering to 
individualized Section 504 plans.  While the Student Support Services Department encompasses special 
education, the department provides support that is available to all Monty Tech students. Students have access 
to direct tutoring both before and after school.   School counselors are available to assist students with 
vocational placement and post-secondary planning.  Furthermore, our counselors are equipped with the skills 
to engage students in workshops and groups that support the development of social resilience, functional 
academics, finding balance, and referral services for those experiencing struggles.   
 
  
  
 
 
Keeping up with technology is essential to any industry, but in vocational education, it is critical.  Students 
and staff access traditional platforms, found and used often in school districts across the nation, but are also 
introduced to industry-specific technology and tools that demand mastery prior to entering the workforce. 
 
The Monty Tech Technology Department is a crucial 
department that not only keeps technology operating, but 
they consistently seek and secure the latest platforms, 
operations, and applications to streamline education, 
training, and day- to-day work efforts.  In 2024 -2025, the 
district’s Technology Director attend ed the LDR512: Cybersecurity Leadership Conference.  There he 
gained advanced technical and leadership skills to effectively manage the district’s security programs and 
learned more about key topics like security architecture, vulnerability management, cloud security, and 
GenAI security.   
 
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts provided a state match through a well -deserved Municipal Local 
Cybersecurity Grant, making this opportunity possible.  As a result, the Monty Tech Technology Department 
is better equipped and more prepared to successfully manage evolving threats, quickly address i ncident 
responses, identify hacker tools and techniques, and understand and share cyber threat intelligence to the 
school community.   
 
Supporting and maintaining student devices and instructional technology continues to comprise the bulk of 
123
===PAGE 128===
the department’s efforts.  With each student having a school -issued Chromebook, and academic and 
vocational teachers using a wide variety of instructional technology, the talented technology team continues 
to streamline troubleshooting and support efforts to ensure more than 1,600 student and staff are online daily, 
and able to fully participate in educational activities at all times.   
 
 
and able to fully participate in educational activities at all times.   
 
 
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) is a leadership program 
focused on instilling values of citizenship, service, personal responsibility, and accomplishment in young 
adults. Throughout the 2024- 2025 school year, cadets served over 3,000 hours in community service and 
volunteerism, highlighting their growth and increased efforts in community outreach. 
 
  
 
During the 2024 - 2025 school year, twenty- six cadets attended a joint Cadet Leadership Course (CLC) in 
southern Massachusetts, where they engaged in team -building activities and challenged their mental and 
physical capabilities through obstacle courses and squad competitions. This four -day camp fostered 
camaraderie and leadership development with cadets from other JROTC programs in New England. 
 
Additionally, cadets supported three community 5K runs, including the Friends of Fitchburg Veterans 5K, 
the Rock and Roll 5K at Wachusett Brewery, and the Heroes Live Forever 5K. They provided assistance 
with parking, run route coordination, and vendor support. Participation in the annual Blacksmith Festival in 
Fitchburg, MA, offered them insights into community volunteerism and the craft of blacksmithing. 
 
In collaboration with the Fitchburg Salvation Army, cadets participated as bell ringers and conducted 
volunteer tolls, successfully collecting over $25,000 in donations to support the less fortunate in the Monty 
Tech community. This fundraising goes on to assist with the costs associated with clothing, housing, food, 
and transportation requirements for numerous community members. 
 
The Monty Tech Color Guard supported in excess of 25 color guards at numerous events, including Monty 
124
===PAGE 129===
Tech home football games, community, and veteran ceremonies, as well as graduate and undergraduate 
celebrations at Fitchburg State University. 
 
A special Veterans Day ceremony on November 10th honored Monty Tech staff and student veteran family 
members through a collage display and sword detail presentation. Also, on November 10th, the MCJROTC 
celebrated the 250th birthday of the United States Marine Corps with a Birthday Ball. Over 250 cadets and 
guests attended for a four-course meal, music, and dancing.  
 
Cadets have also participated in several different competitions including National Marksmanship 
competitions, cyber- security competitions, and numerous Raider challenges with an emphasis on confidence 
and discipline. 
 
This year emphasized the cadets' well -rounded approach to continued improvements and dedication to 
community outreach and volunteerism, as well as team building and small unit leadership development. 
 
 
 
In recent years,  the Mont y Tech School of Continuing Education, has received 
more than $2.7M in funding from Commonwealth Corporation, to provide 
valuable workforce training at no-cost for individuals who may be unemployed or 
underemployed.  These grant-funded training opportunities are an example of the 
collaboration between the MassHire Workforce Investment Board, MassHire 
North Central Career Center, the Executive Office of Labor and Workforce 
Development, and generous sponsorship from Commonwealth Corporation, 
making it possible for Monty Tech to offer meaningful job readiness training 
in occupations with high demand and self-sustaining wages. 
  
In 2024- 2025, school leaders were pleased to offer 200- hour training programs in Automotive Collision 
Repair, Carpentry, Plumbing, and HVAC to qualified participants.  Of the 64 students who enrolled, 56 
participants persisted in completing their selected training program.  Of those, 21 having since secured full -
time employment in their chosen occupations.  In addition to these grant-funded opportunities, the School of 
Continuing Education, continues to offer the area’s most affordable and comprehensive cosmetology training 
program, effectively preparing participants to sit for the Massachusetts State Board examinations.  In FY25, 
nine cosmetology students graduated from the program.  
  
Serving more than 1,700 community members annually, the School of Continuing Education is proud to 
offer training to a non -traditional student population, while working to develop new and important 
relationships with business partners in need of a talented candidate pool.  The Continuing Education staff 
understands that the strength of any vocational training program is dependent upon mutually beneficial 
relationships between the school and our business partners, and they work tirelessly to build relationships 
throughout the year.  In May 2025, the School of Continuing Education hosted the annual Job Fair, 
welcoming more than thirty area employers who spent time visiting with both day and evening students 
seeking job opportunities.  Numerous students attended the event, presented resumes to business 
representatives, and made contacts with employers that led to a first -time job placement and entry into the 
trades. Additionally, the School of Continuing Education hosted its first annual Fall and Spring Open 
Houses, designed to offer prospective students the opportunity to learn more about training programs, meet 
instructors and ask questions.   
 
125
===PAGE 130===
The Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School Practical Nursing Program class of 2025 achieved 
a remarkable 93% NCLEX-PN Pass Rate on their first attempt, exceeding the national first- time pass rate of 
86.6% for U.S.- educated Practical Nursing candidates.  This achievement highlights the hard work and 
commitment of our students, along with the ongoing support and guidance from our faculty and staff. 
 
Our success starts with a learning environment that is supportive, student -focused, and built to help students 
grow into confident, capable nurses. Our faculty play a key role —not only teaching in the classroom and 
clinical setting but also mentoring students throughout the program. Coursework and clinical training are 
designed to strengthen clinical judgment and build a solid understanding of nursing practice. We emphasize 
evidence-based practice, critical thinking, patient safety, and compassionate, culturally aware care. 
 
We also know that student success includes more than academics. The program offers strong student support 
services, including academic advising, wellness resources, and assistance navigating financial assistance. 
Faculty advisors work closely with students, providing consistent encouragement and mentorship from day 
one through graduation. 
 
To continue expanding clinical learning opportunities, we are actively building new community clinical 
partnerships to give students experience in a variety of healthcare environments. These efforts support our 
goal of growing the program and preparing Practical Nurses who are ready to meet workforce needs across 
North Central Massachusetts. 
 
Ongoing improvement is a priority for our program. We regularly review and update our curriculum, invest 
in faculty development, and expand student resources to support learning and licensure success. We will 
continue incorporating technology and evidence-based teaching strategies to help students graduate prepared 
and career-ready. 
 
Community interest in the program remains strong, with more than 150 inquiries each year for 48 available 
seats in our annual cohort. 
 
Our graduates have successfully transitioned into nursing roles in many local healthcare settings within our 
school district, to include the following employer partners: 
 
• CAPS Collaborative • MA Department of Developmental Services  
• The Highlands • Fitchburg Healthcare 
• Gardner Rehabilitation and 
Nursing 
• Wachusett Manor 
• Heywood Hospital • Spring Hill Recovery 
• Athol Hospital • MCI-Gardner 
126
===PAGE 131===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What may be considered the single greatest 
accomplishment of the 2024- 2025 school year 
was not achieved on our campus, but rather one 
mile down the road.  After securing $3.4M in 
competitive grant funding, school leaders 
celebrated the opening of the MVP Academy, the 
district’s first satellite campus, designed in 
partnership with Fitchburg, Gardner, and 
Narragansett Regional Public Schools, to provide 
vocational training in Carpentry, Electrical and 
Plumbing (beginning F all 2026)  to interested 
students.  Renovating an empty 16,000 sq. ft. 
warehouse to create an all -new training academy, 
provided meaningful training and skill -building 
opportunities for our own students, who 
completed a majority of the impressive work.   
 
A combined 72 students (Juniors and Seniors) from our partnering districts participated in the Academy’s 
inaugural year.   Led by expert carpenters and electricians, MVP students work every day to prepare for 
careers in a variety of occupations.  Students use equipment and technology funded entirely by grants, 
earning valuable industry-recognized credentials before graduating. 
 
Juniors and Seniors in Electrical began by completing ladder safety training and shop safety exercises, before 
advancing to complete week -long hands-on projects in their own booths, demonstrating safe practices and 
127
===PAGE 132===
skill development.  Following industry- standard Mike Holt curriculum, Seniors also satisfied Year 1 of the 
Electrical Apprentice Classroom Instruction hours, streamlining entry into this high- demand, high- wage 
occupation.  Juniors and Seniors in the Carpentry trade learned about foundations and footings, while 
adhering to the Massachusetts Carpenters Unions curriculum.  They, too, completed shop safety training 
prior to using any power tools, and became skilled in cutting, shaping, and construction foundation skills.   
Employers visited with instructors and students to guide learning and encourage job placements upon 
graduation, which motivated students and only reaffirmed the relevance 
of MVP training. 
 
In April 2025, MVP Academy welcomed state and local leaders, 
vocational educators from across the Commonwealth, students and even 
proud parents to the Ribbon Cutting Ceremony. The celebration marked 
not only completion of a building, but also new and life -changing 
opportunities now available to regional students.  Student speakers 
spoke of a high school experience that lacked engagement before 
attending MVP, where they found renewed spirit and meaning in all 
lessons, including those academic lessons they were previously 
disinterested in.  The celebration further substantiated school leaders’ 
commitment to expanding access and marked a significant step in 
addressing the chronic lack of seats in vocational training programs in 
our region.  Since that celebration, school leaders have been asked to 
speak at national conferences, provide tours of the facility for those who 
did not attend, and even offer guidance in grant applications that may 
fund a similar satellite campus and partnership program, in districts 
across Massachusetts.   
The district continues to benefit from a talented leadership team whose varied educational 
backgrounds, professional experiences, and areas of expertise contribute to the success of the school. 
Working collaboratively, and under the direction of the Superintendent , the team has transformed the 
school into one of the most sought-after high schools in North Central Massachusetts.  
 
Thomas R. Browne, Superintendent-Director 
Dayana Carlson, Principal 
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager 
Kim Curry, Co-Operative Education Coordinator 
Taryn DiVito, Data Analysis and Accountability Coordinator 
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs 
Michael Gormley, Director of Facilities 
Donald Kitzmiller, Director of Technology 
Christine Leamy, Dean of Admissions 
Kathryn Schmidt, Assistant Principal 
Katy Whitaker, Development Coordinator 
Brian Williams, Director of Vocational Programs 
Victoria Zarozinski, Director of Student Support Services 
 
In addition, t he Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee is comprised of 
twenty-two dedicated individuals, whose expertise proves invaluable in advising the district’s operations, 
128
===PAGE 133===
policies, and procedures. Our students continue to benefit from the broad scope of their experiences and 
varying perspectives, and we are thankful to the following members of the 2024- 2025 School Committee for 
their outstanding service. 
  
John Columbus, Templeton 
Chair 
 
Eric Commodore, Gardner 
Vice Chair 
 
Julie Marynok 
Secretary 
 
Jeffrey Gallant 
District Treasurer 
  
   
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham 
Shelly Jones, Ashby 
Jeffrey Raymond, Athol 
Whitney Marshall, Barre 
Robert Campbell, Fitchburg 
Michael Hurley, Fitchburg 
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg 
Evelyn Bosworth, Fitchburg 
Calvin Brooks, Gardner 
Christina Smith, Holden 
Scott Carignan, Hubbardston 
Stephanie Quinn, Lunenburg 
Jada McConologue, Petersham 
Eric Olson, Phillipston 
John P. Mollica, Princeton 
Ashley Hadmack, Royalston 
William Brassard, Sterling 
Ross Barber, Westminster 
Tamarah Estes, Winchendon
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
129
===PAGE 134===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
130
===PAGE 135===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN CLERK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
131
===PAGE 136===
TOWN CLERK 
 
VITALS REPORT: 
 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND US DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF TOWN, NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS HAVE 
BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURANCES OF EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE AND 
DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR. 
 
DURING 2025 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTH –114    DEATHS –123 MARRIAGES – 33 
 
 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
Annual Town Meeting - May 3, 2025 
 
The Moderator called the meeting to order at 9:03 AM declaring a quorum, announced that the warrant was 
properly served, then led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance. He then went over ground rules of the 
meeting, then made announcement about vacancies on various committees. Flowers were presented to Tom 
Alonzo and Michael Ray Jefferies for their years of service to the town as selectmen. Various Town and School 
employees were recognized for their years of service. The new police chief, Jeffrey Thibodeau was welcomed. 
The Moderator then had the meeting test the electronic devises for recording the vote taken on each article. 
Robert Bowen was made the Deputy Moderator and the Moderator explained the Consent Calendar and moved 
for consideration Articles 4, 5, 18, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 32, and 33. The Consent Calendar was passed 
unanimously by voice vote. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 1:  To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town 
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. Heard Select Board Report on Brooks 
House and Storm Water Task Force by DPW Director. 
 
ARTICLE 2:  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Town Treasurer/Tax Collector, with the approval of 
the Select Board, to borrow money from time to time in anticipation of the revenue of the Fiscal Year 2026, the 
period from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026, in conformity with the provisions of the Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 44, Section 4, and to issue a note or notes as may be given for a period of less than one year in 
accordance with Massachusetts General Laws,  Chapter 44, Section 17, and to authorize the Treasurer/Tax 
Collector to enter into a compensating balance agreement or agreements for Fiscal Year 2026 pursuant to 
Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44, Section 53F; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED (yes 
145; no 25; abstain 1, 114 needed for 2/3rds majority) to authorize the Town Treasurer/Tax Collector, 
with the approval of the Select Board, to borrow money from time to time in anticipation of the revenue 
of the Fiscal Year 2026, the period from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026, in conformity with the 
provisions of the Massachusetts General Laws,  Chapter 44, Section 4, and to issue a note or notes as may 
be given for a period of less than one year in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws,  Chapter 44, 
Section 17, and to authorize the Treasurer/Tax Collector to enter into a compensating balance agreement 
or agreements for Fiscal Year 2026 pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws,  Chapter 44, Section 53F.  
Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 3:  To see if the Town will vote to accept any and all state highway assistance funds authorized by 
the state legislature and approved by the Massachusetts Highway Department under the so-
called Chapter 90 Highway Assistance Program to be expended for the maintenance, repair and construction of 
Town roads in anticipation of reimbursement under the direction of the Select Board and the Town Manager for 
work on roads located on the State Aid Primary System as approved by the Massachusetts Highway 
132
===PAGE 137===
Department, and further to authorize the Town Treasurer/Tax Collector, with the approval of the Select Board, 
to borrow money from time to time during Fiscal Year 2026, for the period from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 
2026, in anticipation of reimbursement of said highway assistance in conformity with the provisions of 
Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44, Section 6A; or take any other action relative thereto. Select Board 
and Finance Committee recommend Approval. VOTED (yes 120, no 14, abstain 1, 90 needed for 2/3rds 
majority) to accept any and all state highway assistance funds authorized by the state legislature and 
approved by the Massachusetts Highway Department under the so-called Chapter 90 Highway 
Assistance Program to be expended for the maintenance, repair and construction of Town roads in 
anticipation of reimbursement under the direction of the Select Board and the Town Manager for work 
on roads located on the State Aid Primary System as approved by the Massachusetts Highway 
Department, and further to authorize the Town Treasurer/Tax Collector, with the approval of the Select 
Board, to borrow money from time to time during Fiscal Year 2026, for the period from July 1, 2025 
through June 30, 2026, in anticipation of reimbursement of said highway assistance in conformity with 
the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44, Section 6A. 
 
ARTICLE 4:   To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, 
committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town’s General 
Bylaws; or take any other action relative thereto. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to authorize revolving 
funds for various departments, boards, committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts 
General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2025 to be expended in 
accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town’s General Bylaws. Finance Committee and Select Board 
recommend Approval. 
 
Revolving Fund FY 2026 Spending 
Limit 
Ambulance Billing $100,000 
Timber Rights $10,000 
School Custodial Special Details $13,000 
Green Thumb $5,000 
Library Revolving $12,000 
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $60,000 
Stormwater Task Force $5,000 
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector Revolving $55,000 
Technology Revolving  $30,000 
Local Wetlands Protection Bylaw Fees $50,000 
CoA Meal Site $20,000 
Parks Programming $77,000 
 
ARTICLE 5:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT to PASS OVER Article 5. 
 
ARTICLE 6:  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary to 
amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2025 Budget, under Article 7 of the May 4, 2024 Annual Town 
Meeting and Article 1 of the November 12, 2024 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action relative 
thereto.  UNANIMOUS VOICE VOTE to PASS OVER Article 6. Finance Committee and Select Board 
recommend Approval to pass over Article 6. 
 
ARTICLE 7:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, the 
sum of $465,000 to cover FY 2025 and prior year operating deficits in the following accounts:  
133
===PAGE 138===
 
School Department (Unanticipated SPED Move-Ins) $50,000 
Snow & Ice $415,000 
Total  $465,000 
  
 
VOTED (yes 171, no 12, abstain 2) to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $50,000.00 to Line 79 of the FY 
2025 Omnibus Budget, “School Department,” and further to transfer from Free Cash the sum of 
$408,966.86 to Line 70 of the FY2025 Omnibus Department, “Snow Removal Expense.” Finance 
Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 8:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, and/or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to purchase or lease/purchase and equip either the FY 2026 Program of Capital Projects 
Option 1 or FY 2026 Program of Capital Projects Option 2, including all costs incidental or related thereto, 
and, as needed, to authorize lease/purchase agreements for periods of up to or in excess of three years for 
such purposes; or take any other action relative thereto.     
 
FY 2026 Program of Capital Projects Option 1 
 
CPC 
Ranking Department Project Name Project Cost Cumulative 
Cost 
1 Police Patrol Cruiser $72,058 $72,058 
2 Schools 
Primary School Feasibility Study for 
Entry & Drive Way Expansion $30,000 $102,058 
3 Fire 
Fire Prevention / Duty Officer 
Vehicle $75,000 $177,058 
4 Facilities 
Library HVAC Upgrade and Control 
Design $32,000 $209,058 
5 Facilities Town Hall HVAC Upgrades $113,000 $322,058 
6 Schools 
Primary School Designer Services, 
Playground Equipment $30,000 $352,058 
7 Schools THES Hot Water Tank $20,000 $372,058 
8 Facilities Senior Center, Flooring $41,000 $413,058 
9 Facilities Teen Center, Replace Floors $35,000 $448,058 
10 Facilities 
Public Safety Building 2nd Floor 
Design – Office/File Space $42,000 $490,058 
11 Police Patrol Cruiser $72,058 $562,116 
12 Facilities Town Hall, Window Replacement $210,000 $772,116 
13 DPW Compact Backhoe $115,000 $887,116 
15 Schools 
Replacement of Security Camera 
Central Server $40,000 $927,116 
16 Facilities Senior Center Parking Design $32,000 $959,116 
17 DPW 1 Ton Truck - Utility Body / Plow $70,000 $1,029,116 
19 Schools Primary School Window Safety Film $26,865 $1,055,981 
20 DPW North Cemetery Expansion Area Prep $50,000 $1,105,981 
22 Facilities Marshall Pond Weed Treatment $50,000 $1,155,981 
  Contingency $69,019 $1,225,000 
  Total F2026 Capital  $1,225,000 
134
===PAGE 139===
 
 
FY 2026 Program of Capital Projects Option 2 
 
CPC 
Ranking Department Project Name Project Cost Cumulative 
Cost 
1 Police Patrol Cruiser $72,058 $72,058 
3 Fire 
Fire Prevention / Duty Officer 
Vehicle $75,000 $147,058 
4 Facilities 
Library HVAC Upgrade and Control 
Design $32,000 $179,058 
5 Facilities Town Hall HVAC Upgrades $113,000 $292,058 
8 Facilities Senior Center, Flooring $41,000 $333,058 
9 Facilities Teen Center, Replace Floors $35,000 $368,058 
10 Facilities 
Public Safety Building 2nd Floor 
Design – Office/File Space $42,000 $410,058 
11 Police Patrol Cruiser $72,058 $482,116 
12 Facilities Town Hall, Window Replacement $210,000 $692,116 
13 DPW Compact Backhoe $115,000 $807,116 
16 Facilities Senior Center Parking Design $32,000 $839,116 
17 DPW 1 Ton Truck - Utility Body / Plow $70,000 $909,116 
20 DPW North Cemetery Expansion Area Prep $50,000 $959,116 
22 Facilities Marshall Pond Weed Treatment $50,000 $1,009,116 
N/A Schools 
Primary School Heat Pump System 
(Local Funding for Green 
Communities Award) $146,865 $1,155,981 
  Contingency $69,019 $1,225,000 
  Total F2026 Capital  $1,225,000 
 
Amendment to Line #20 rejected by Moderator.  VOTED Option 2 as presented (Yes 152, No 30, Abstain 
2) to raise and appropriate the sum of $244,576; transfer from Free Cash the sum of $655,424; and 
transfer from Article 6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $325,000; for a total 
appropriation of $1,225,000 to fund the FY26 Capital Plan, Option 2, as appearing in the May 3, 2025 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant Booklet. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9:  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds the sum of $152,500 for a program 
of special projects as follows; or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Project Sum 
A.  Decommission Portions of TC Passios $75,000 
B.  Grant Writing Services Pilot Program $50,000 
C.  Board of Assessor – Phase 1 DOR 
Directives 
$27,500 
VOTED (Yes 147, No 22, Abstain 2) to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $152,500 for a program of 
special projects as follows: 
 
Project Sum 
135
===PAGE 140===
A.  Decommission Portions of TC Passios $75,000 
B.  Grant Writing Services Pilot Program $50,000 
C.  Board of Assessor – Phase 1 DOR 
Directives 
$27,500 
 Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 10:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2026 and to fix the salaries and compensation of 
all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager; or take any 
other action relative thereto . VOTED (Yes 162, No 18) to raise and appropriate the sum of $48,942,526.53, 
transfer the sum of $307,125.25 from Sewer Enterprise Fund, transfer the sum of $38,453.78 from the 
Artificial Turf Revolving Fund, transfer the sum of 31, 271.94 from the PEG Access and Cable Related 
Enterprise Fund, and transfer the sum of $55,087.50 from Water Betterment Revenue to defray the 
charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2026 of $49,374,465.00, and to fix the salaries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town 
Manager.  Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 11:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate $2,099,337 to supplement the Lunenburg 
Public School’s budget for Fiscal Year 2026, contingent upon the passage of a Proposition 2 ½ ballot question; 
or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED (Yes 96, No 94)  to raise and appropriate $2,099,337 to 
supplement the Lunenburg Public School’s budget for Fiscal Year 2026, contingent upon the passage of a 
Proposition 2 ½ ballot question. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Disapproval. 
 
ARTICLE 12:  To see if the Town will vote to transfer the sum of $500,000 from Certified Free Cash to the 
Lunenburg Public Schools Fiscal Year 2026 Operating Budget; such transfer to occur only if voters fail to 
approve a Proposition 2½ override, so- called, on or before May 17, 2025, to supplement funding for the 
Lunenburg Public Schools in an amount equal to or greater than $2,099,337; or take any other action relative 
thereto. VOTED (Voice) to amend date from May 17, 2025 to November 15, 2025.  VOTED (Yes123, No 
45, Abstain 2) vote to transfer the sum of $500,000 from Free Cash to the Lunenburg Public Schools 
Fiscal Year 2026 Operating Budget; such transfer to occur only if voters fail to approve a Proposition 2½ 
override, so-called, on or before November 15, 2025, to supplement funding for the Lunenburg Public 
Schools in an amount equal to or greater than $ 2,099,337. Finance Committee and Select Board 
recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Schedule A, entitled 
“Salary Administration Plan,” as follows: that the existing position of DPW Director be assigned to Grade 17; 
and that the position of Communications and IT Manager be added and assigned to Grade 12; or take any other 
action relative thereto.  VOTED (Yes 121, No 16, Abstain 1) to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, 
Schedule A, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” as follows: that the existing position of DPW Director 
be assigned to Grade 17; and that the position of Communications and IT Manager be added and 
assigned to Grade 12. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg, 
Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” Section 70- 8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” Subsection A, and 
specifically Schedule A as referenced therein, as amended, with a  FY 2026 Salary Schedule, which authorizes 
wage increases for Fiscal Year 2026, for permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit 
agreement or individual contract; and, further, to transfer a sum of money from available funds to fund the wage 
increase for FY2026; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED (Yes 125, No 12) to replace the 
current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” 
Section 70-8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” Subsection A, and specifically Schedule A as referenced therein, 
as amended, with a  FY 2026 Salary Schedule, which authorizes wage increases for Fiscal Year 2026, for 
136
===PAGE 141===
permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract; and, 
further, to transfer the sum of $43,406.20 from the FY2026 Salary Reserve Fund to fund the wage 
increase for FY2026, for Salary Administration Plan employees. Finance Committee and Select Board 
recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 15  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary 
Administration Plan,” Section 70-19, entitled “Paid Holidays”, by amending Section C as follows (additions are 
shown in bold italics for emphasis only); or take any other action relative thereto: 
 
C. Holiday leave will be granted on the day the Town observes the holiday, when possible. If the holiday falls 
on a Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed 
on the following Monday. If an eligible employee is required to work on the day the Town observes the holiday, 
they will be entitled to a Floating Day, which has to be used within 30 days, by agreement of the supervisor and 
employee. If the department head determines that holiday leave cannot be granted, the employee shall receive 
payment at one and one-half times the base hourly rate for all hours worked on the holiday, in addition to his or 
her holiday pay. Final determination is to be made by the Town Manager.  Call Firefighters assigned to work a 
Duty Shift at the Fire Station on a holiday shall be paid one and one half times their hourly rate for the 
hours worked. For purposes of this section only, Holiday time shall be considered the calendar date of the 
holiday, regardless of the day of the week it falls on.  VOTED (Yes 123, No 7) to amend the Code of 
Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” Section 70-19, entitled “Paid Holidays”, 
by amending Section C as follows: 
 
C. Holiday leave will be granted on the day the Town observes the holiday, when possible. If the holiday 
falls on a Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be 
observed on the following Monday. If an eligible employee is required to work on the day the Town 
observes the holiday, they will be entitled to a Floating Day, which has to be used within 30 days, by 
agreement of the supervisor and employee. If the department head determines that holiday leave cannot 
be granted, the employee shall receive payment at one and one -half times the base hourly rate for all 
hours worked on the holiday, in addition to his or her holiday pay. Final determination is to be made by 
the Town Manager.  Call Firefighters assigned to work a Duty Shift at the Fire Station on a holiday shall 
be paid one and one half times their hourly rate for the hours worked. For purposes of this section only, 
Holiday time shall be considered the calendar date of the holiday, regardless of the day of the week it falls 
on. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 16.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. UNANIMOUS VOICE VOTE to 
PASS OVER Article 16. 
 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum 
of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. UNANIMOUS 
VOICE VOTE to PASS OVER Article 17.  
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take 
any other action relative thereto.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to Transfer from Free Cash the sum 
of $222,500 to the OPEB Trust Fund established at the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting.  
Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 
40, Section 13D, thereby establishing a reserve fund for the future payment of accrued liabilities for 
compensated absences due upon the termination of employment, said fund to be known as the "Compensated 
Absences Reserve Fund"; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED (Yes 127, No 6, Abstain 1) to 
137
===PAGE 142===
accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section 13D, thereby establishing a 
reserve fund for the future payment of accrued liabilities for compensated absences due upon the 
termination of employment, said fund to be known as the "Compensated Absences Reserve Fund." 
Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, the sum 
of $10,000 to the Compensated Absences Reserve Fund, heretofore established under Massachusetts General 
Laws Chapter 40, Section 13D; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED (Yes 131, No 8 Abstain 1) to 
raise and appropriate or transfer from Free Cash the sum of $10,000 to the Compensated Absences 
Reserve Fund, heretofore established under Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section 13D.  
Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds the sum of $1,545.00 into the 
OPEB Sewer Trust Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT  to 
transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $1,545.00 into the OPEB Sewer Trust 
Fund established at the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting. Finance Committee and Select Board 
recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2026; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED 
(Yes 125, N0 6, Abstain 1)  to appropriate from Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of $1,276,792.20 and 
appropriate from Sewer Revenue retained earnings the sum of $281,638.61 for a total appropriation of 
$1,558,430.81, to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2026; and further that the sum of 
$307,125.25 be included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the 
Sewer Enterprise Fund. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 23.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds the sum of $19,104.40 into the 
Sewer Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto .  VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT to transfer from Sewer Retained Earnings the sum of $19,104.40 to the Sewer 
Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund.  Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 24.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds the sum of $5,133.15 into the 
Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $5,133.15 to the Sewer 
Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 25.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2026; or take any other action 
relative thereto. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise 
Anticipated Revenues the sum of $500,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Fund for FY 
26. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 26.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2026; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues the sum of $45,000 to operate 
the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 26. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 27.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to fund the FY 2026 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating and capital 
budgets; or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from 
PEG Access and Cable Related revenues the sum of $194,655.55 to fund the operating and capital 
budgets of PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund foe FY26; and further that $31,271.94 be 
138
===PAGE 143===
included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs  and be allocated to the PEG Access 
and Cable Related Enterprise Fund. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 28  To see if the Town will appropriate a sum of money to pay costs of designing, constructing and 
equipping improvements to Marshall Park, including, but not limited to, construction of a basketball court, three 
pickleball courts, a universally accessible playground, a picnic area, a picnic pavilion with restroom facilities 
and a concession stand, a baseball diamond, and softball diamond and adjacent restroom facilities, additional 
parking lots and walking paths, and to pay all other costs incidental and related thereto; and to determine 
whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; provided, however, that the vote taken 
hereunder shall be expressly contingent upon approval by the voters of a Proposition 2½ debt exclusion 
question, so-called, in accordance with G.L. c. 59, § 21C(k); or take any other action relative thereto.  Article 
28 was DEFEATED (Yes 85, No 63, Abstain 1 – 100 needed for 2/3rds majority). Finance Committee and 
Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 29:   To see if the Town will appropriate a sum of money to pay costs of (i) reconstructing, 
equipping and furnishing the Meeting House and the Ritter Memorial Building, including the costs of related 
architectural and engineering services and all other costs incidental and related thereto, and (ii) constructing, 
equipping and furnishing a new Town Hall to be located adjacent to the Ritter Memorial Building, including the 
costs of related architectural and engineering services and all other costs incidental and related thereto, with the 
anticipated scope of such work more fully described in the report presented to the Town by Taylor & Burns 
Architects, dated February 24, 2025; to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or 
otherwise; provided, however, that the vote taken hereunder shall be expressly contingent upon approval by the 
voters of a Proposition 2½ debt exclusion question, so- called, in accordance with G.L. c. 59, § 21C(k);  or take 
any other action relative thereto. Article 28 was DEFEATED (Yes 77, No 48, Abstain 1 – 84 needed for 
2/3rds majority). Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 30.     To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, being the 
Town’s “Protective Bylaw,” Article IV, entitled “Use Regulations,” by deleting therefrom in its entirety Section 
4.8, entitled “Floodplain District,” and by substituting the following therefor:  
 
§ 250-4.8.  Floodplain District. 
A. The purpose of the Floodplain Overlay District is to: 
(1) Ensure public safety through reducing the threats to life and personal injury 
(2) Eliminate new hazards to emergency response officials 
(3) Prevent the occurrence of public emergencies resulting from water quality, contamination, and pollution 
due to flooding 
(4) Avoid the loss of utility services which if damaged by flooding would disrupt or shut down the utility 
network and impact regions of the community beyond the site of flooding 
(5) Eliminate costs associated with the response and cleanup of flooding conditions 
(6) Reduce damage to public and private property resulting from flooding water. 
 
B.  Zone 
The Floodplain District is herein established as an overlay district.  The District includes all special flood hazard 
areas within Lunenburg designated as Zone A and AE on the Worcester County Flood Insurance Rate Map 
(FIRM) dated July 8, 2025 issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for the 
administration of the National Flood Insurance Program.  The exact boundaries of the District shall be defined 
by the 1%-chance base flood elevations shown on the FIRM and further defined by the Worcester County Flood 
Insurance Study (FIS) report dated July 8, 2025.  The FIRM and FIS report are incorporated herein by reference 
and are on file with the Town Clerk, Planning Board, Building Official and Conservation Commission. 
 
C. Definitions 
 
139
===PAGE 144===
DEVELOPMENT means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not 
limited to building or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling 
operations or storage of equipment or materials. 
 
FLOODWAY. The channel of the river, creek or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be 
reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more 
than a designated height. 
 
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is 
located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that 
are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, 
but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.  
 
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction 
next to the proposed walls of a structure.  
 
HISTORIC STRUCTURE means any structure that is: 
(a) Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the Department of 
Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for 
individual listing on the National Register; 
(b) Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical 
significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify 
as a registered historic district; 
(c) Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation programs which 
have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or 
(d) Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation 
programs that have been certified either: 
(1) By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or 
(2) Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs. 
 
NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective 
date of the first floodplain management code, regulation, ordinance, or standard adopted by the authority having 
jurisdiction, including any subsequent improvements to such structures. New construction includes work 
determined to be substantial improvement.  
 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE means a vehicle which is: 
(e) Built on a single chassis; 
(f) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection; 
(g) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and 
(h) Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, 
camping, travel, or seasonal use. 
 
REGULATORY FLOODWAY - The channel of the river, creek or other watercourse and the adjacent land 
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water 
surface elevation more than a designated height.  
 
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land area subject to flood hazards and shown on a Flood Insurance 
Rate Map or other flood hazard map as Zone A, AE, A1-30, A99, AR, AO, AH.   
 
START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date of issuance for new construction and substantial improvements to 
existing structures, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, 
placement or other improvement is within 180 days after the date of issuance. The actual start of construction 
140
===PAGE 145===
means the first placement of permanent construction of a building (including a manufactured home) on a site, 
such as the pouring of a slab or footings, installation of pilings or construction of columns.  Permanent 
construction does not include land preparation (such as clearing, excavation, grading or filling), the installation 
of streets or walkways, excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, the erection of temporary 
forms or the installation of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not 
part of the main building. For a substantial improvement, the actual “start of construction” means the first 
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects 
the external dimensions of the building.  
 
STRUCTURE means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including a gas or 
liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.  
  
SUBSTANTIAL REPAIR OF A FOUNDATION. When work to repair or replace a foundation results in the 
repair or replacement of a portion of the foundation with a perimeter along the base of the foundation that 
equals or exceeds 50% of the perimeter of the base of the foundation measured in linear feet, or repair or 
replacement of 50% of the piles, columns or piers of a pile, column or pier supported foundation, the building 
official shall determine it to be substantial repair of a foundation. Applications determined by the building 
official to constitute substantial repair of a foundation shall require all existing portions of the entire building or 
structure to meet the requirements of 780 CMR.  
 
VARIANCE means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management regulation. 
 
VIOLATION means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's 
flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other 
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in §60.3 is presumed to be in violation until such time 
as that documentation is provided. 
 
D.   Use Regulations. 
(1) The Floodplain District is established as an overlay district to all other districts. All development, including 
structural and nonstructural activities, must be in compliance with MGL c. 131, § 40 and with the 
requirements of the Massachusetts State Building Code pertaining to construction in the floodplain. 
 
(2) Permitted Uses. The following uses of low flood damage potential and causing no obstructions to flood 
flows shall be allowed, provided they are permitted in the underlying district and they do not require 
structures, fill or storage of materials or equipment: 
(a) Agricultural uses such as farming, grazing, truck farming, horticulture, etc. 
(b) Forestry and nursery uses. 
(c) Outdoor recreational uses, including fishing, boating, play areas, etc. 
(d) Conservation of water, plants, wildlife. 
(e) Wildlife management areas, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths. 
(f) Temporary nonresidential structures used in connection with fishing, growing, harvesting, storage or 
sale of crops raised on the premises. 
(g) Buildings lawfully existing prior to the effective date hereof. 
 
(3) Uses permissible by special permit granted by the Planning Board. No structure or building  shall be 
erected, constructed, substantially improved or otherwise created or moved, no earth or other materials 
dumped, filled, excavated or transferred, unless a special permit is granted by the Planning Board. Said 
Board may issue a special permit hereunder, subject to other applicable provisions of this bylaw, if the 
application is in compliance with the following provisions: 
 
(a) The proposed use shall comply in all respects with the provisions of the underlying district; and 
(b) Within 10 days of receipt of the application, the Board shall transmit one copy of the development plan 
141
===PAGE 146===
to the Conservation Commission, Board of Health and Building Commissioner. Final action shall not 
be taken until reports have been received from the above boards or until 35 days have elapsed; and 
(c) All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements to existing structures 
and other development, are prohibited unless certification by a registered professional engineer is 
provided by the applicant demonstrating that such encroachment shall not result in any increase in 
flood levels during the occurrence of the one-hundred-year flood; and 
(d) The Board may specify such additional requirements and conditions it finds necessary to protect the 
health, safety and welfare of the public and the occupant of the proposed use. 
 
E. Designation of Community Floodplain Administrator 
 
The Town hereby designates the position of Building Commissioner to be the official floodplain administrator 
for the Town. 
 
F. Special Permits are required for all proposed development in the Floodplain District 
 
The Town requires a special permit for all proposed construction or other development in the Floodplain 
District, including new construction or changes to existing buildings, placement of manufactured homes, 
placement of agricultural facilities, fences, sheds, storage facilities or drilling, mining, paving and any other 
development that might increase flooding or adversely impact flood risks to other properties. 
 
G.   Assure That All Necessary Permits Are Obtained 
 
The Town’s special permit review process includes the requirement that the proponent obtain all local, state and 
federal permits that will be necessary in order to carry out the proposed development in the Floodplain District. 
The proponent must acquire all necessary permits. 
 
H. Floodway Encroachment 
 
In Zones A and AE, along watercourses that have not had a regulatory floodway designated, the best available 
Federal, State, local, or other floodway data shall be used to prohibit encroachments in floodways which would 
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. 
 
In Zone  AE, along watercourses that have a regulatory floodway designated on the Town’s FIRM, 
encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other 
development within the adopted regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and 
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment 
would not result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood 
discharge. 
 
I. Unnumbered A Zones 
 
In A Zones, in the absence of FEMA BFE data and floodway data, the Building Department will obtain, review 
and reasonably utilize base flood elevation and floodway data available from a Federal, State, or other source as 
criteria for requiring new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in Zone A and as the 
basis for elevating residential structures to or above base flood level, for floodproofing or elevating 
nonresidential structures to or above base flood level, and for prohibiting encroachments in floodways. 
 
J.    Subdivision proposals 
 
All subdivision proposals and development proposals in the Floodplain District shall be reviewed to assure that: 
(a) Such proposals minimize flood damage. 
142
===PAGE 147===
(b) Public utilities and facilities are located & constructed so as to minimize flood damage. 
(c) Adequate drainage is provided. 
 
K. Base flood elevation data for subdivision proposals 
 
When proposing subdivisions or other developments greater than 50 lots or 5 acres (whichever is less), the 
proponent must provide technical data to determine base flood elevations for each developable parcel shown on 
the design plans. 
 
L. Recreational Vehicles 
 
In A and AE Zones, all recreational vehicles to be placed on a site must be elevated and anchored in accordance 
with the zone’s regulations for foundation and elevation requirements or be on the site for less than 180 
consecutive days or be fully licensed and highway ready. 
 
M. Watercourse alterations or relocations in riverine areas 
 
In a riverine situation, the Building Commissioner shall notify the following of any alteration or relocation of a 
watercourse: 
• Adjacent Communities, especially upstream and downstream 
• Bordering States, if affected 
• NFIP State Coordinator 
 Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation 
• NFIP Program Specialist 
      Federal Emergency Management Agency, Region I 
 
N. Requirement to Submit New Technical Data 
 
If the Town acquires data that changes the base flood elevation in the FEMA mapped Special Flood Hazard 
Areas, the Town will, within 6 months, notify FEMA of these changes by submitting the technical or scientific 
data that supports the change(s). Notification shall be submitted to: 
• NFIP State Coordinator 
 Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation 
• NFIP Program Specialist 
  Federal Emergency Management Agency, Region I 
 
O.   Variances to Building Code Floodplain Standards 
 
The Town will request from the State Building Code Appeals Board a written and/or audible copy of the portion 
of the hearing related to the variance, and will maintain this record in the community’s files. 
 
The Town shall also issue a letter to the property owner regarding potential impacts to the annual premiums for 
the flood insurance policy covering that property, in writing over the signature of a community official that (i) 
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium 
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and (ii) such construction 
below the base flood level increases risks to life and property. 
 
Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance actions for the referenced development in 
the Floodplain District. 
 
P. Variances to the Zoning Bylaw related to community compliance with the National Flood Insurance 
Program (NFIP) 
143
===PAGE 148===
 
A variance from this Bylaw must meet the requirements set out by State law, and may only be granted if:  
 
(1) Good and sufficient cause and exceptional non-financial hardship exist;  
(2) The variance will not result in additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, or 
fraud or victimization of the public; and  
(3) The variance is the minimum action necessary to afford relief. 
 
Q. Abrogation and Greater Restriction 
 
The floodplain management regulations found in this Floodplain District Bylaw shall take precedence over any 
less restrictive conflicting local laws or codes. 
 
The degree of flood protection required by this Bylaw is considered reasonable but does not imply total flood 
protection. 
 
R.    Severability Section 
 
If any section, provision or portion of this Bylaw is deemed to be unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the 
remainder of the Bylaw shall be effective; 
 
or take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED (Yes 82, No 4 – 58 needed for 2/3rds majority). . Finance 
Committee-NDFI and Select Board recommends Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 31.   To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, being the Town’s 
“Protective Bylaw,” so as to bring it into compliance with certain provisions of the Affordable Homes Act, 
being Chapter 150 of the Acts of 2024, specifically those provisions relative to so-called accessory dwelling 
units, or ADUs, as follows:   
i. within Article IV, entitled “Use Regulations,” Section 4.1, entitled “Permitted and prohibited uses,” 
Subsection G, the “Use Table,” Item 4.1.H.(1), by adding the word “Unit” following “Accessory Dwelling”; 
and  
ii. by deleting from the same Article IV and Section 4.1, Subsection H, entitled “Residential uses,” the entirety 
of Paragraph (1) and by substituting the following therefor:  
 
(1)  ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU) — a self-contained housing unit, inclusive of sleeping, cooking 
and sanitary facilities on the same lot as a principal dwelling, subject to otherwise applicable dimensional and 
parking requirements, that: (i) maintains a separate entrance, either directly from the outside or through an entry 
hall or corridor shared with the principal dwelling sufficient to meet the requirements of the state building code 
for safe egress; and (ii) is not larger in gross floor area than 1/2 the gross floor area of the principal dwelling or 
900 square feet, whichever is smaller; provided, however, that an ADU shall further satisfy the following 
criteria:  
  
(a)   An ADU that conforms to the requirements contained herein shall be permitted by-right as an accessory 
use in accordance with the Use Table.  
  
(b)  The ADU may be a detached dwelling on the same lot or part of the same structure as the principal 
dwelling unit.  
  
(c)   An ADU shall conform to the dimensional requirements of Section 250-5.2; provided, however, that no 
minimum lot size is required for an ADU per 760 CMR 71.03(3)(b)(2).  
   
(d)  An ADU may not be used for short-term rental as defined in Section 1 of MGL Chapter 64G.  
144
===PAGE 149===
   
(e)  Not more than 50% of the lot area may be occupied by the principal and accessory dwelling(s)”;   
   
iii. within Article V, entitled “Dimensional Regulations,” Section 5.2, entitled “Setbacks and yards,” 
Subsection E, entitled “Side and rear yards,” Item (3), entitled “Retail Commercial, Commercial, Office 
Park and Industrial Districts,” by: (1) deleting the phrase “Retail Commercial” from the title of said Item 
(3) and substituting the phrase “Limited Business/Residential” therefor; and (2) adding to said Item (3), 
Subitems (a) and (b), the phrase “not containing an accessory dwelling unit,” twice, following the phrase 
“detached accessory building”;  
  
or take any other action relative thereto. VOTED (Yes 84, No –0, Abstain 1) to amend the Code of 
Lunenburg, Chapter 250, being the Town’s “Protective Bylaw,” so as to bring it into compliance with 
certain provisions of the Affordable Homes Act, being Chapter 150 of the Acts of 2024, as printed in the 
May 3, 20255 Annual Town Meeting Warrant Booklet.  Finance Committee -NDFI.  Select Board and 
Planning Board recommend Approval. 
  
ARTICLE 32:  To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 59, Section 5, 
to increase the maximum qualifying amount of whole estate or assets for FY2026 from $40,000 to $68,244, 
under Clause 17E, and to increase the exemption amount for FY2026 from $185 to $343, under Clause 17F; or 
take any other action relative thereto.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT pursuant to Massachusetts 
General Laws, Chapter 59, Section 5, to increase the maximum qualifying amount of whole estate or 
assets for FY2026 from $40,000 to $68,244, under Clause 17E, and to increase the exemption amount for 
FY2026 from $185 to $343, under Clause 17F. Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 33:  To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 59, Section 5, 
Clauses 41C and 41D, to increase the single income maximum qualifying amount from $24,000 to $32,571 for 
FY2026, to increase married income amount from $30,000 to $40,946 for FY2026,  to increase the Single Asset 
maximum qualifying amount   from $40,000 to $54,492 for FY2026, and to increase the Married Asset 
maximum qualifying amount from $55,000 to $75,172 for FY2026.  Thereafter, COLA provisions, already 
accepted by the Special Town Meeting of November, 2024, would apply to Income and Assets for 41D, or take 
any other action relative thereto.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT pursuant to Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 59, Section 5, Clauses 41C and 41D, to increase the single income maximum qualifying 
amount from $24,000 to $32,571 for FY2026, to increase married income amount from $30,000 
to $40,946 for FY2026,   to increase the Single Asset maximum qualifying amount   from $40,000 
to $54,492 for FY2026, and to increase the Married Asset maximum qualifying amount from $55,000 
to $75,172 for FY2026.  Thereafter, COLA provisions, already accepted by the Special Town Meeting  of 
November, 2024, would apply to Income and Assets for these Clauses. Finance Committee and Select 
Board recommend Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 34:  Will the citizens of Lunenburg, Massachusetts Adopt the following: 
1. Adopt the following definitions governing the powers and duties of the Lunenburg Cemetery 
Commission’s powers and duties as enshrined in the Charter of the Town of Lunenburg and in the 
Cemetery Commission’s Rules and Regulations; 
 
Definitions: 
“Sole” as in separate; 
 
“Care” as in “duty of care a legal responsibility of an organization to avoid any behaviors or omissions that 
could reasonably be foreseen to cause harm to others.” 
 
“Superintendence” as in “The function of watching, guarding, or overseeing.” 
 
145
===PAGE 150===
“Management” as in “To direct the the transactions of government."  
 
“Town” as in “body politic; “inhabitants of a Town”” as it states in statute and the Rules and Regulations of the 
Cemetery Commission wherein it states in part “;and, subject to the approval of the town, may make such 
regulations, consistent with law, as it deems expedient.” 
 
2. And direct the Cemetery Commission to act as an oversight elected body, for which it has been 
directed as such by statute, enshrined in MGLA CH. 114 SECTION 23; and as pursuant to The Charter 
of the Town of Lunenburg, which has enshrined the supreme power and duties as supervisor of the 
cemeteries day-to-day care and maintenance authority to the Town Manager in SECTION 3-5 (b) 
CEMETERY COMMISSION: 
 
MGLA Ch. 114 Sec. 23 
“Said board shall have the sole care, superintendence and management of all public burial grounds in its town, 
may lay out any existing public burial grounds in its town or any land purchased and set apart by said town for 
such cemeteries, in lots or other suitable subdivisions, with prop paths and avenues, may plant, embellish, 
ornament and fence the same and erect therein suitable edifices and conveniences and make such improvements 
as it considers convenient; and, subject to the approval of the town, may make such regulations, consistent with 
law, as it deems expedient.’ 
 
SECTION 3-5 (b) CEMETERY COMMISSION 
“… The day-to-day care and maintenance of the cemeteries shall be under the supervision of the town 
manager.” 
 
3. Direct the Town Manager pursuant to her Charter authority over all Town Property Article 4 Section 
4-1 (i) and her granted authority pursuant to Article 5 Section 5-1 (a) to Conjoin (merge) the powers and 
duties governing the supervisory authority of the cemetery property, (multiple parcels of land owned by 
the Town of Lunenburg), by changing the working of the power and duties granted to the Town Manager 
to the Department of Public Works the words which will clearly reference with the word “property”, or 
“land” by adding the words “including all cemetery lands” which is under the authority of the Town 
Manager and the Department of Public Works who presently share supervisory of all lands (property) in 
the Town of Lunenburg excepting the School Department. 
 
4. All changes to the Rules and Regulations of the Cemeteries shall be made under the following schedule 
and processes and only upon approval by the majority vote of the Inhabitants of the Town of Lunenburg 
at the Annual Town Meeting or Special Town Meeting according to the following schedule and process: 
 
a. The cemetery commission shall be permitted to make a RULES AND REGULATION changes not 
requiring the expense of any money, only by submission of a warrant article, at the Annual Town Meeting 
or Special Town meeting for a Vote of the Inhabitants of The Town of Lunenburg, subject to the approval of 
the article by the Town Manager, and a two-thirds majority vote of the finance committee and selectboard 
 
b. The Cemetery Commission shall be permitted to make a RULES AND REGULATION change 
requiring the expense of any money, (including expenses derived from the following funds, but not limited 
to, the Sale of Lots Fund, Perpetual Care Fund, or a Family Trust Fund, a Gift or Donation or any and all 
monies allocated or procured, including the granting of any refunds), only by a submission of a warrant 
article, which Shall be presented with a comprehensive collaborative written plan, for its specified use, 
which includes a presentation of the Director of the Department of Public Works, Cemetery Superintendent 
and the Town Manager and then presented at the Annual Town Meeting for a Vote of the Inhabitants of the 
Town of Lunenburg, subject to the approval of the warrant article by the Town Manager, and a two-thirds 
majority vote of the Finance Committee and Selectboard. 
 
146
===PAGE 151===
5.  The Cemetery Commission shall be permitted to use money held by the Town of Lunenburg, (see list 
as included as reference mentioned in section 4 (b) of this article), only upon a submission of a 
comprehensive written plan and presentation from the Cemetery Commission and the Director of the 
Department of Public Works, Cemetery Superintendent and the Town Manager, and it must be 
presented to the Selectboard and Finance Committee and meet the guidelines for approval pursuant to 
the process in 4 (b) of this article to be presented at annual town meeting for finalization. 
 
The following sections of the commission, which must require approval for monies include but are not 
limited to the following: 
 
a.  For the perpetual care and maintenance of the cemeteries and 
b.  For the layout of any existing public burial grounds in the town 
c.  Or to purchase any land for such cemeteries, either in lots or other suitable subdivisions, with proper 
paths and avenues, to plant, embellish, ornament or fence 
d. and erection therein such suitable edifices and conveniences and make such improvements as it 
considers convenient 
 
ARTICLE 34 was DEFEATED (Yes 12, No 67) 
 
Meeting Dissolved at 5:01PM 
 
 
 
Excerpts: SPECIAL TOWN MEETING November 18, 2025 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM in the Middle/High School Auditorium. The Moderator 
declared that we had a quorum present and that the warrant was properly served. We then pledged 
allegiance to the flag; we were reminded of the ground rules for the meeting and finally we tested the 
electronic devices to be used for voting. The Moderator explained the Consent Calendar and moved 
same: that Town Meeting advance for consideration Articles 5,6,and 14 and that it take action on said 
Articles without debate: VOTED 2/3RDS (YES-95, NO-2, ABSTAIN-1.  
 
ARTICLE 1:  To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town 
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee: No Direct Financial 
Impact. Select Board recommend Approval (5-0) VOTED (Yes-74, No-20, Abstain-2) to hear and accept the 
regular written reports of Stormwater Task Force and Master Plan Steering Committee.  
 
ARTICLE 2:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, all sums 
necessary to amend the amounts voted in the FY2026 Omnibus Budget under Article 10 of the May 3, 2025 
Annual Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee & Select Board 
Recommend Approval.  VOTED (Declared 2/3rds) (Yes-91, No-10, Abstain-2, needed 69 for 2/3rds 
Majority) to: (i) raise and appropriate the sum of $160,052 to the Town Accountant line, thus increasing 
the amount raised and appropriated under Article 10 of the May 3, 2025 Annual Town Meeting; (ii) 
transfer the sum of $49,276.43 from the Salary Reserve Fund appropriation made under Article 10 of the 
May 3, 2025 to fund the first year of the FY 26-FY 28 New England Police Benevolent Association, Local 
353 dated July 1, 2025- June 30, 2028, the sum of $8,911.56 from said Fund to the Town Accountant line, 
the sum of $19,950 from said Fund to the Police Department line, and the sum of $7,409.48 from said 
Fund to the Informational Technology Department; and (iii) transfer the sum of $27,500 from Article 9 
of the May 3, 2025 Annual Town Meeting to the Assessors Administration line.   
 
 ARTICLE 3:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto.   (Finance Committee & 
147
===PAGE 152===
Select Board recommend approval)     
ARTICLE 3. Part 1-VOTED (Yes 110, No 4, needed for 9/10th 103) to authorize the payment of prior 
year expenses as follows: (i) raise and appropriate the sum of $4,617.32, transfer the sum of $61,382.68 
from Article 5 of the May 1, 2021 Annual Town Meeting and transfer the sum of $24,000.00 from Article 
6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting, all for the payment of prior year expenses to the City of 
Fitchburg; said sum or sums to be reimbursed to the General Fund from the Water Enterprise Fund or 
the Retained Earnings thereof in future fiscal year(s). 
 
ARTICLE 3. Part 2-VOTED (Yes 104, No 1, needed for 9/10
th 95) to authorize the payment of prior year 
expenses as follows: (ii) pay the sum of $266.00  from the FY26 Physical line to  Heywood Hospital for an 
unpaid bill of a prior year; (iii) pay the sum of $390.00 from the FY26 Facilities and Buildings- Part 
Department Line for an unpaid bill of a prior year; and (iv) pay the sum of $3,500.00 from the FY26 
Town Accountant line for an unpaid bill of a prior year. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 4:  AUTHORIZATION TO FUND SPECIAL PROJECTS 
(Submitted by the Town Manager) 
 
To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds a sum of money for a program of special projects 
as follows; or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Project Sum 
Stormwater Consulting  $42,900.00 
 
Finance Committee recommends Approval (3-2). Select Board recommends approval (4-1). VOTED  (Yes 64, 
No 45, Abstain 1) to transfer the sum of $42,900 from funds previously appropriated under Article 5 of 
the May 1, 2021 Annual Town Meeting for capital expenditures for the so-called Stormwater Consulting 
project.  
 
ARTICLE 5.  PUBLIC ACCESS CABLE COMMITTEE TRANSFER OF FUNDS 
(Submitted by Public Access Cable Committee)  
 
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the sum of $35,271 from Retained Earnings of the PEG Access and 
Cable Related Enterprise Fund to fund the FY26 PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise operating and 
capital budgets; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee Recommend Approval. Select 
Board Recommends Approval (5-0).  VOTED (2/3rds Declared) CONSENT CALENDAR TO PASS OVER 
ARTICLE 5. 
 
ARTICLE 6.  CEMETERY COMMISSION TRANSFER OF FUNDS 
(Submitted by the Cemetery Commission)   
 
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the sum of $10,000 from the Cemetery Sale of Lots Fund 8115 to the 
Capital Article Fund 3006; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee recommends Approval 
(5-0). Select Board recommends Approval (5-0).  VOTED (2/3rds Declared) CONSENT CALENDAR to 
transfer the sum of $10,000.00 from the Sale of Cemetery Lots Fund 8115 to Capital Article Fund 3006. 
 
ARTICLE 7.  AUTHORIZATION TO FUND A SUM OF MONEY FOR PROJECT ESTIMATORS 
(Submitted by Town Manager)   
 
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, the sum of $50,000 for 
the engagement of one or more consultant(s) to assist with capital project estimations; or take any other action 
148
===PAGE 153===
relative thereto. Finance Committee recommends Approval (4-1). Select Board recommends Approval (5-0).  
VOTED (Yes 70, No 21, Abstain 3) to transfer the sum of $50,000 from funds previously appropriated 
under Article 5 of the May 1, 2021 Annual Town Meeting for capital expenses to fund the engagement of 
one or more consultant(s) to assist with capital project estimations. 
 
ARTICLE 8.  ESTABLISHMENT OF A SPECIAL EDUCATION RESERVE FUND 
(Submitted by the School Committee)   
 
To see if the Town will accept the provisions of MGL Chapter 40, Section 13E, to establish a Special Education 
Reserve Fund to be utilized in the upcoming fiscal years, to pay, without further appropriation, for unanticipated 
or unbudgeted costs of special education and recovery high school programs, out -of-district tuition or 
transportation; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee Recommends Disapproval.  Select 
Board recommends Approval (4- 1).  VOTED (Yes 65, No 24, Abstain 1) to accept the provisions of MGL 
Chapter 40, Section 13E, to establish a Special Education Reserve Fund to be utilized in the upcoming 
fiscal years, to pay, without further appropriation, for unanticipated or unbudgeted costs of special 
education and recovery high school programs, out-of-district tuition or transportation. 
  
ARTICLE 9.  41A PROPERTY TAX DEFERRAL 
(Submitted by the Board of Assessors)   
 
To see if the Town will vote to increase the gross receipts that seniors may have in the prior calendar year to be 
eligible to defer property taxes under Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 41A, from 
$20,000 to 100% of the amount established annually by the Commissioner of Revenue as the income limit for 
single seniors who are not heads of households to qualify for the “circuit breaker” state income tax credit, so-
called, for the preceding tax year, with such increase to be effective for deferrals granted for taxes assessed for 
fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2026. Finance Committee recommends Approval. Select Board 
recommends Approval (5-0). VOTED (Yes 82, No 12, Abstain 2) to increase the gross receipts that seniors 
may have in the prior calendar year to be eligible to defer property taxes under Massachusetts General 
Laws Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 41A, as printed in the November 18, 2025 Special Town Meeting 
Warrant Booklet.  
 
ARTICLE 10.  21 MAIN STREET EASEMENT 
(Submitted by Town Manager and Select Board)   
 
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board to acquire by gift, meaning for nominal 
consideration, an easement, determined to be unique, through and within certain property known as and 
numbered 21 Main Street, Lunenburg, Massachusetts, a.k.a. Assessor’s Parcel ID 060-0006-0000, situated 
adjacent to Town Hall, said easement being comprised of 442 square feet, more-or-less, shown as the 
"Permanent and Exclusive Easement 442+-S.F." on a plan of land entitled "Easement Plan in Lunenburg, 
Massachusetts," prepared by Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group, dated March 13, 2025, and on file with the 
office of the Town Clerk, for the purposes of maintaining, repairing, replacing and/or installing anew, and for 
the ongoing use of, the deck, ramp and walkway appurtenant to and accessing and the aforementioned Town 
Hall, or for incidental purposes; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee: No Direct 
Financial Impact. Select Board recommends Approval.  VOTED (Yes 86, No 2, Abstain 3) to authorize the 
Select Board to acquire by gift an approximately 442-square-foot easement through and within certain 
property known as and numbered 21 Main Street, as shown on a plan of land on file with the Town 
Clerk, for the deck, ramp and walkway adjacent to Town Hall, all as more specifically described in the 
November 18, 2025 Special Town Meeting Warrant Booklet.  
 
ARTICLE 11.  TRANSFER THE CARE, CUSTODY, AND CONTROL OF KIDS KINGDOM AND 
THE LAND IT IS ON FROM THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE TO THE SELECT BOARD 
(Submitted by Town Manager and Select Board)   
149
===PAGE 154===
 
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of a portion of the land with the building 
thereon, known as Kids Kingdom, located at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, more specifically identified in the 
Assessor’s records as Map 60, Parcel 55, and as shown on a plan of land entitled “Approximate Parce 
Configurations: Passios Building and Brooks House,” dated April 15, 2016 and on file with the office of the 
Town Clerk, from the School Committee, presently held for school purposes, to the Select Board, for general 
municipal purposes; or take any other action relative thereto. Finance Committee: No Direct Financial Impact. 
Select Board recommends Approval (5-0).VOTED (Yes 70, No 17) TO PASS OVER ARTICLE 11. 
 
ARTICLE 12.  NOTICE OF TOWN MEETING 
(Submitted by Town Manager and Select Board)   
 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 81, entitled “Town Meetings,” 
Subsection 1, entitled “Warrants,” by making certain deletions (in strikethrough) and additions (in bold italic) as 
follows: 
 
§81-1 Warrants  
 
A. Warrants for all Town Meetings shall be served by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public 
places in the Town, 14 days, at least, before the day appointed for said meeting, one in each Precinct: 
 (1) Precinct A: Town Hall, 17 Main Street. 
(2) Precinct B: Whalom Variety Store, 423 Electric Avenue in the Whalom-Bakerville District. 
 (3) Precinct C: Powell Stone & Gravel Co. Inc., 225 Leominster-Shirley Road. 
 (4) Precinct D: JAXX Country Variety, 1383 Massachusetts Avenue. 
 
B. The warrant for any Town Meeting, with report and recommendation of the Finance Committee (required by 
Chapter 12, A
rticle I, § 12-2, of these bylaws), together with the warrant for the Annual Town Election shall 
be posted to the Town website and available at Town Hall  mailed by the Select Board to each dwelling unit in 
the Town in which a registered voter resides, at least 14 days prior to such meeting. The warrant for the Annual 
Town Election shall be included in the mailing for the Annual Town Meeting.  The Select Board shall cause a 
notification of the date of Town Meeting and availability of the Warrant to be mailed to each dwelling in the 
Town in which a registered voter resides at least 14 days prior to such meeting. Or take any other action 
relative thereto. Finance Committee recommends Approval (3-2-0). VOTED (Yes 55, No 26, Abstain 1) to 
PASS OVER ARTICLE 12. 
 
ARTICLE 13
.  MBTA ZONING ACT COMPLIANCE 
(Submitted by Planning Board)   
 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, being the Town’s “Protective 
Bylaw,” so as to bring it into compliance with the MBTA Communities Act, being M.G.L. Chapter 40A, 
Section 3A, by adding a new Section 4.19 thereto, entitled “Multi-family Overlay District,” as follows: 
 
Section 250-4.19 Multi-family Overlay District. 
 
A.  Purpose 
 
The purpose of the Multi -family Overlay District (MOD) is to allow multi- family housing at a density of 26.1 
units per acre as of right per Section 3A of the Zoning Act (Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40A). This 
zoning provides for as of right multi-family housing to accomplish the following purposes: 
 
1. Promote public health, safety and welfare by encouraging the production of various housing 
sizes and types to provide equal access to new housing throughout the community to meet the various 
150
===PAGE 155===
needs for people and households of all incomes, ages and sizes.  
 
2. Preserve open space in a community by locating new housing within or adjacent to existing 
developed areas and infrastructure. 
 
3. Increase the municipal tax base through private investment in new residential developments. 
 
B.  Establishment and Applicability 
 
This MOD is an overlay district superimposed over the underlying zoning district and is shown on the Zoning 
Map. 
 
1. Underlying Zoning. The MOD is an overlay district superimposed on underlying zoning districts. 
The regulations for use, dimension, and all other provisions of the Zoning Bylaw governing the 
respective underlying zoning district(s) shall remain in full force, except for uses allowed as of right in 
the MOD. Uses not identified in Section 250- 4.19 are governed by the underlying zoning district(s) 
requirements. 
 
2. Density Protection. The Planning Board shall have the authority to modify any conflicting 
dimensional or design standards imposed by other sections of the zoning by -law if such standards would 
result in a reduction of the base density of 26.1 units per acre for multifamily housing within the MOD. 
 
C.  Definitions. 
 
For Section 250- 4.19, the following definitions shall apply. See Section 250- 2 of the Zoning By- laws for all 
other definitions. 
 
1. Affordable unit. A multi -family housing unit that is subject to a use restriction recorded in its 
chain of title limiting the sale price or rent or limiting occupancy to an individual or household of a 
specified income, or both. 
 
2. Affordable housing. Housing that contains Affordable Units eligible for listing in the EOHLC’s 
Subsidized Housing Inventory. 
 
3. Applicant. A person, business, or organization that applies for a building permit, Site Plan 
Review, or Special Permit. 
 
4. Area Median Income (AMI). The median family income for the Fitchburg- Leominster, MA 
statistical region includes the Town of Lunenburg as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD). 
 
5. As of right. Development that may proceed under the Zoning in place at the time of application 
without needing a special permit, variance, zoning amendment, waiver, or other discretionary zoning 
approval. 
 
6. Building coverage. The maximum area of the lot can be attributed to the footprint of the 
buildings (principal and accessory) on that lot. Building Coverage does not include surface parking. 
 
7. Compliance Regulations. Compliance Regulations for Multi -Family Zoning Districts Under 
Section 3A of the Zoning Act as further revised or amended from time to time - see 760 CMR 72.00: 
MULTI-FAMILY ZONING REQUIREMENT FOR MBTA COMMUNITIES. 
 
151
===PAGE 156===
8. EOHLC. The Executive Office of Housing and Livable Communities (formerly Department of 
Housing and Community Development, also known as DHCD) or any successor agency. 
 
9. Development standards. Provisions of Section 250- 4.19.G. General Development Standards 
made applicable to projects within the MOD. 
 
10. MBTA. Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. 
 
11. Multi-family housing. A building with three or more residential dwelling units or two or more 
buildings on the same lot with more than one residential dwelling unit in each building. 
 
12. Multi-family zoning district. A zoning district, either a base district or an overlay district, in 
which multi-family housing is allowed as of right. 
 
13. Open space. Contiguous undeveloped land within a parcel boundary. 
 
14. Parking, structure. A building used for the storage of motor vehicles in two or more tiers or 
levels. Parking Structure does not include underground parking. 
 
15. Parking, surface. One or more parking spaces without a built structure above the space. A solar 
panel designed to be installed above a surface parking space does not count as a built structure for this 
definition. 
16. Residential dwelling unit. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one 
or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. 
 
17. Section 3A. Section 3A of Chapter 40A of the Massachusetts General Laws. 
 
18. Site plan review authority. The Planning Board is responsible for Site Plan Approval within the 
MOD. 
 
19. Special permit granting authority. The Special Permit Granting Authority shall be the Zoning 
Board of Appeals for the issuance of special permits in the MOD. 
 
20. Subsidized Housing Inventory (SHI). A list of qualified Affordable Housing Units maintained by 
the Executive Office of Housing and Livable Communities (EOHLC) used to measure a community's 
stock of low-or moderate-income housing for M.G.L. Chapter 40B, the Comprehensive Permit Law. 
 
D.  Permitted Uses 
 
1. Uses Permitted As of Right. The following uses are permitted as of right within the MOD: Multi-
family housing, up to 26.1 units per acre. See Section 4 of the Zoning By- laws for all other uses allowed 
as of right in the underlying zones. 
 
2. Accessory Uses. The following uses are considered accessory as of right to any of the permitted 
uses in Section 250-4.19.D. 
 
a. Parking, including surface parking on the same lot as the principal use. 
 
b. As of right accessory uses appropriate to the above permitted uses, per Section 3 of the 
Zoning By-laws for uses allowed as a right or special permit in the underlying zones. 
 
E.  Dimensional Standards 
152
===PAGE 157===
 
1. Dimensional Standards. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Zoning, the 
dimensional requirements applicable in the MOD are as follows: 
  Minimum Front Yard: 40 feet 
  Minimum Side Yard: 25 feet 
  Minimum Rear Yard: 25 feet 
  Maximum Height: 38 feet 
Minimum Open Space: At least 10% of the total site area shall be devoted to open space; 
required setbacks shall be considered as part of the total area required for open space. The 
required open space shall not be used for parking or loading purposes and shall be open and 
unobstructed to the sky. Items such as benches, walkways, planters, landscaping, kiosks, gazebos 
and similar structures shall not be considered obstructions. 
 
2. Multi-Building Lots. In the MOD, lots may have more than one principal building. 
 
3. Exceptions. The limitation on height of buildings shall not apply to chimneys, ventilators, 
towers, silos, spires, or other ornamental features of buildings, which features are in no way used for 
living purposes and do not constitute more than 25% of the ground floor area of the building. 
 
F.  Off-Street Parking 
 
Multifamily development in the MOD shall provide two parking spaces per dwelling unit. Stand- alone Parking 
Structures are prohibited. 
 
G.  General Development Standards 
 
1. Development standards in the MOD are applicable to all multi- family and mixed -use 
development. These standards are components of the Site Plan Review process in Section 250-4.19.J. 
Site Plan Review. 
 
2. Site Design. 
 
a. Connections. Sidewalks shall provide direct connections among building entrances, the 
public sidewalk (if applicable), bicycle storage, and parking. 
 
b. Vehicular Access. Where feasible, curb cuts shall be minimized, and shared driveways 
encouraged. 
 
c. Screening for Parking. Surface parking adjacent to a public sidewalk shall be screened by 
a landscaped buffer of sufficient width to allow the healthy establishment of trees, shrubs, and 
perennials, but no less than 6 (six) feet. The buffer may include a fence or wall of no more than 
three feet in height unless there is a significant grade change between the parking and the 
sidewalk. 
 
d. Parking Materials. The parking surface may be concrete, asphalt, decomposed granite, 
bricks, or pavers, including pervious materials but not including grass or soil not contained 
within a paver or other structure. Pervious materials are encouraged. 
 
e. Open Space and Plantings. Plantings shall include species that are native or adapted to 
the region. Plants on the Massachusetts Prohibited Plant List, as may be amended, shall be 
prohibited. 
 
153
===PAGE 158===
f. Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be Dark Sky–compliant, employing fully shielded, 
full-cutoff LED luminaires and meeting current Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) design 
recommendations for the intended use; fixtures shall be mounted and aimed to prevent glare, 
light trespass onto adjoining properties, and skyglow, and shall utilize controls (timers, dimming 
and/or motion sensors) to reduce illumination outside operating hours. 
 
g. Mechanicals. Mechanical equipment at ground level shall be screened by a combination 
of fencing and plantings. Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened if visible from a 
public right-of-way. 
 
h. Dumpsters. Outdoor dumpsters will be enclosed on all sides by a building, fence, and/or 
wall that has a landscaping buffer on at least 2 of the non-gated sides.  
 
i. Stormwater Management. Strategies that demonstrate compliance of the construction 
activities and the proposed project with the most current versions of the Massachusetts 
Department of Environmental Protection Stormwater Management Standards, the Massachusetts 
Stormwater Handbook, Massachusetts Erosion Sediment and Control Guidelines, the Town’s 
Stormwater Bylaw, as amended, and, if applicable, additional requirements under the Town of 
Lunenburg MS4 permit.  
 
3. Buildings: Multiple Buildings on a Lot. 
 
a. Parking and circulation on the site shall be organized to reduce the amount of impervious 
surface. Where possible, parking and loading areas shall be connected to minimize curb cuts onto 
public rights-of-way. The minimum horizontal distance between any two curb cuts on the same 
lot shall be no less than 100 feet. 
 
b. A paved pedestrian network shall connect parking to the entries to all buildings and the 
buildings to each other and all walkways and connections shall meet accessibility standards. 
 
c. The orientation of multiple buildings on a lot should reinforce the relationships among 
the buildings. All building façade(s) shall be treated with the same care and attention in terms of 
entries, fenestration, and materials. The relationship of the buildings to the site, including the 
siting of buildings, structures and open spaces, shall be designed to permit passive solar energy 
and to permit maximum protection of pedestrian areas from adverse impact of winds, vapors or 
other emissions, shadows and/or noise. The minimum horizontal distance between any two 
principal buildings on the same lot shall be no less than 40 feet. 
 
d. The building(s) adjacent to the public street shall have a pedestrian entry facing the 
public street. 
 
4. Buildings: Shared Outdoor Space. Multi -family housing shall have common outdoor space that 
all residents can access. Such space may be in any combination of the courtyard, rooftop, or terrace. 
 
5. Buildings: Principal Façade and Parking. Parking shall be subordinate in design and location to 
the principal building façade while minimizing the extent of impervious surface. Vehicular parking 
spaces and garage doors shall be located behind the primary plane of the principal building façade. 
 
a. Surface Parking. Surface parking shall be located at the rear or side of the principal 
building. For the purposes of this section, a side location must be behind the primary plane of the 
principal building façade and must be screened from the public right -of-way by landscaping or 
fencing. Parking shall not be located in the required front setback between the building and any 
154
===PAGE 159===
lot line adjacent to the public right-of-way. 
 
b. Integrated Garages. Garage doors for residential units are prohibited on any principal 
façade that faces a public street. Integrated garages are permitted on a side or rear façade, 
including garage doors for ramps to underground parking. 
 
6. Waivers. Upon the request of the Applicant and subject to compliance with the Compliance 
Regulations, the Site Plan Review Authority may waive the requirements of this Section 250-4.19.G. 
General Development Standards,. 
 
H. Affordability Requirements. 
 
1. Purpose.  
 
a. Promote the public health, safety, and welfare by encouraging a diversity of housing 
opportunities for people of different income levels;  
 
b. Provide for a full range of housing choices for households of all incomes, ages, and sizes;  
 
c. Increase the production of affordable housing units to meet existing and anticipated 
housing needs; and  
 
d. Work to overcome economic segregation allowing the Town of Lunenburg to be a 
community of opportunity in which low and moderate -income households have the opportunity 
to advance economically. 
 
2. Applicability. This requirement is applicable to all residential and mixed -use developments with 
2 or more dwelling units, whether new construction, substantial rehabilitation, expansion, 
reconstruction, or residential conversion. No project may be divided or phased to avoid the requirements 
of this section.  
 
3. Affordability requirements. Subsidized Housing Inventory: All units affordable to households 
earning 80% or less of AMI created in the MOD under this section must be eligible for listing on 
EOHLC’s Subsidized Housing Inventory. 
 
4. Provision of Affordable Housing. In Applicable Projects, 10% of housing units constructed shall 
be Affordable Housing Units. For purposes of calculating the number of units of Affordable Housing 
required within a development project, a fractional unit shall be rounded down to the next whole 
number. The Affordable Units shall be available to households earning income up to 80% of the AMI.  
 
5. Development Standards. Affordable Units shall be:  
 
a. Integrated with the rest of the development and shall be compatible in design, 
appearance, construction, and quality of exterior and interior materials with the other units and/or 
lots;  
 
b. Dispersed throughout the development;  
 
c. Located such that the units have equal access to shared amenities, including light and air, 
and utilities (including any bicycle storage and/or Electric Vehicle charging stations) within the 
development;  
 
155
