===PAGE 1===
1 
 
Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
LUNENBURG POLICE DEPARTMENT FY2024 BUDGET NARRATIVE 
 
     
 
 
It is an honor to again provide the Lunenburg Police Department’s FY2024 Budget request to the Finance 
Committee.  2022 continued to be a challenging year for the Police Department as the community came out of 
the grips of Covid-19.  We have also faced the challenges associated with the economy, population growth, and 
increased traffic within the community.  A nationwide trend of recruiting and retaining Police Officers continue 
to have an effect on our Department.  Although faced with these challenges, the Department remains committed 
to being pro-active, and strives to make the Community safe for all. 
 
Mission Statement:  
 
We, the members of the Lunenburg Police Department, strive to provide the highest quality of police services to 
our community members and visitors alike.  We believe in Community Policing, and all of the benefits that are 
realized from this concept.  We will strive to maintain the strong partnerships that have been developed with our 
community, and continuously look for ways improve that relationship.  We will strive to deliver police services 
in a fair and impartial manner, consistent with all applicable laws, while respecting all individual rights.  We 
will use innovative and modern ideas and techniques to solve crimes, apprehend criminal offenders, and help 
resolve quality of life issues.   
 
 
 
 
CHIEF 
Thomas L. Gammel 
TEL: (978) 582-4151 
FAX: (978) 582-4159 
              
    655 Massachusetts Avenue 
    Lunenburg, MA 01462 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Values: 
• We are committed to ensuring that all of our actions reflect the utmost integrity, and honesty.   
• We are committed to respecting individual rights, human dignity, and the values of all members of the 
community and members of the Lunenburg Police Department. 
• We are a proactive and problem solving agency. 
• We strive to serve our citizens in a professional manner with compassion, respect, and empathy. 
• We are committed to providing the highest quality of police services to our community. 
• We recognize the value of our employees, and recognize they are our most valued resource.  We will 
strive to provide our employees with the necessary resources, training, and career development to 
enhance their professionalism. 
• We recognize that the wellbeing of our employees is the upmost importance.  We will strive to provide 
the necessary assistance to assure our employees enjoy a long and satisfying career.        
Current Department Organization 
 
The Police Department is currently comprised of 20 Full Time Officers, a Public Safety Coordinator, Animal 
Control Officer, 4 Reserve Officers, a Public Safety Desk Clerk, a part time Principal Clerk.  The Department 
operates on a 24 hour a day, 7 day per week basis.  The structure of the Department is divided into two 
divisions, the Administrative Division and the Operations Division.  Within each division Bureaus are 
established to effectively and efficiently deliver police services to the community.   
Administrative Division: 
Administrative Bureau:   
The Administrative Bureau consists of the Chief of Police, Lieutenant, the Public Safety Coordinator, the Public 
Safety Desk Clerk, and the part time Principal Clerk.  The Administrative Bureau is under the direct supervision 
of the Chief of Police. 
The Administrative Bureau is responsible for managing the overall operations of the Police Department.  This 
includes but is not limited to managing the Department’s budget and payroll, scheduling, hiring, promotions, 
accreditation, court prosecution, Internal Affairs, accounting, and benefits.   
Operations Division:  
Patrol Bureau:  
The Patrol Bureau consists of uniformed Patrol Officers, who are divided into four patrol shifts, with a Sergeant 
assigned to each shift for direct supervision. Patrol Officers are responsible for but not limited to the protection 
of life and property, criminal investigations, maintaining public order, traffic control and enforcement, motor 
vehicle accident investigation, and domestic violence investigations.  Patrol Officers also participate in 
Community Policing events throughout the year. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The following is the current patrol schedule:  
  A.  Day Shift:   7:00 AM to 3:00 PM 
  B.  Evening Shift:   3:00 PM to 11:00 PM 
  C. Night Shift:  11:00 PM to 7:00 AM 
  C. Split Shift:  Evening Shift/Night Shift Split; Evening Shift/Day Shift Split 
Investigative Bureau:   
The Investigative Bureau is comprised of two Detectives, with a Detective Sergeant (future) for direct 
supervision.  Detectives are responsible for investigative services that include but are not limited to criminal 
investigations, sexual assaults, child abuse, follow-ups for criminal and civil cases, crime scene processing, 
drug investigations, and area task force initiatives. 
Currently the Investigative Bureau has one Detective assigned until the Department has backfilled recent 
vacancies.  As the Department continues with the 10 year hiring plan we will add to the Investigative Bureau.   
Traffic Bureau:  
The Traffic Bureau consists of a uniformed Patrol Officer(s) assigned as a Traffic Officer.  Traffic Officer(s) are 
responsible for but not limited to traffic enforcement, accident investigations, traffic analysis reports, and other 
related traffic control services.  The Traffic Officer is under the direct supervision of the Split Shift Sergeant, 
and the Lieutenant.     
Community Policing Bureau:   
The Community Policing Bureau consists of a uniformed Patrol Officer assigned as a School Resource Officer 
(SRO), and a Community Outreach Officer.  The SRO and the Community Outreach Officer is currently a 
combined position.  As we continue with our hiring plan we intend to split the position, and have a dedicated 
SRO and a dedicated Community Outreach Officer.     
The SRO is a liaison to the Lunenburg School District, spending time within each school in the district.  The 
SRO provides a safe and healthy environment for students and school employees.  The SRO is instrumental in 
developing positive relationships with students during their formative years thus fostering a strong and trusting 
relationship between the community and police department.  The SRO also assists students and faculty during 
stressful situations by providing a Comfort Dog, Hank.  The SRO provides Hank on a volunteer basis, and does 
so without hesitation.  
The Community Outreach Officer participates in numerous programs throughout the year including but not 
limited to Domestic Violence Outreach, proms, graduation and critical stress debriefing.  The Community 
Outreach Officer will also work with the community groups such as the Council on Aging, and the Boys and 
Girls Club. 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Department Personnel:  
 
Administration 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel 
Lt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau 
Public Safety Coordinator Amanda Moore 
Public Safety Desk Clerk Kennedy Jackson 
Principal Clerk-Vacant 
 
Patrol Bureau 
Day Shift 
Sgt. Joshua Tocci  
Off. Jonathan Broc 
Off. Gage Russell 
Off. Kamerin Munroe 
 
Evening Shift 
Sgt. Sean Connery 
Off. Anthony Cappucci 
Off. Paul Theodoulou 
Off. George Tibbetts 
 
Night Shift 
Sgt. Sean W. Zrate 
Off. Jeffrey Hill 
Off. Jesse Reed 
Off. Deven O’Brien 
 
Split Shift 
Sgt. John Morreale 
Off. Jack Wagner (K9) 
 
Traffic Bureau 
Off. Jacob LaChance 
 
Investigative Bureau 
Detective Joshua Mathieu 
 
Community Policing Bureau 
SRO/Community Outreach:  Off. Bradley McNamara (Comfort Dog, Hank) 
Vacant  
 
Reserve Police Officers 
Off. Robert DaCosta 
Off. Benjamin Campbell 
Off. Paul Duquette 
Off. Joel Ortega 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Organizational Chart: 
Department Review: 
 
K9 Jerry will be retiring at the end of the fiscal year.  Jerry has been with the Department since 2014, and has 
performed admirably throughout his career.  Jerry will remain with Sgt. Tocci, who has agreed to keep him 
throughout his retirement years.  We wish Jerry good health and a long retirement.  Job well done Jerry.   
 
Off. Nicholas Marino accepted a position with the Acton Police Department.  We thank Nick for his service, 
and wish him the best of luck with Acton PD.   
 
Reserve Officer/Desk Officer Lisa Melnicki has accepted a position in the private sector.  We thank Lisa for her 
service, and wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors.  
 
Off. Matthew Pingitore has accepted a position with Massachusetts State Police.  We thank Matt for his service 
to community and the Department.  In his short time with the Department Matt excelled, and we are sorry to see 
him leave.  We wish Matt the best of luck with the MSP.   
 
Off. Jesse Reed was hired to the full times ranks.  We are happy to welcome a veteran police officer from Berlin 
Police Department who will bring his experience and knowledge to the Department.   
 
Off. Deven O’Brien has returned to the Department as a full time police officer.  Off. O’Brien started his career 
with our Department as a Reserve Officer in 2013 and in 2014 was appointed as a full time police officer.   In 
Chief of Police
Thomas L. Gammel
Day Shift
0700-1500
Sgt. Joshua Tocci
Off.  Jonathan Broc
Off.  Gage Russell
Off.  Kamerin 
Munroe
ACO Kathy Comeau Reserve 
Off. Robert Dacosta
Reserve 
Off. Benjamin 
Campbell
Reserve 
Off. Paul Duquette
Reserve 
Off. Joel Ortega
Evening Shift
1500-2300
Sgt. Sean Connery
Off. Anthony 
Cappucci
Off. Paul Theodoulou
Off. George Tibbetts
Night Shift
2300-0700
Sgt. Sean Zrate
Off. Jeffrey Hill
Off. Jesse Reed
Off. Deven O'Brien
Split Shift
Sgt. John Morreale
K9  Off. Jack Wagner
Traffic Bureau
Off. Jacob Lachance
Traffic Officer
10 Yr. Plan - Vacant 
Investigative Bureau
Detective Sergeant 
10 Yr. Plan - Vacant 
Detective Joshua 
Mathieu
Detective 
10 yr. plan
Vacant
Community Policing 
Bureau
SRO/Community 
Outreach
Off. Brad McNamara
SRO/Community 
Outreach
Vacant
SRO/Community 
Outreach 10 Yr. Plan 
- Vacant 
Lieutenant Jeffrey 
M. Thibodeau
Lieutenant
10 Yr. Plan - Vacant 
Public Safety 
Amanda Moore
Principal Clerk
Vacant
Front Desk Clerk 
Kennedy Jackson
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
2018 Off. O’Brien accepted a position with the Marlborough Police Department.  We were happy to welcome 
Off. O’Brien back to the Department, and continue his service where his Law Enforcement career began.     
 
Off. Paul Theodoulou was hired to the full time ranks after serving a short period time as a Reserve Officer with 
the Department.  Off. Theodoulou is a veteran police officer from Fitchburg Police Department as well 
Townsend Police Department.  Off. Theodoulou brings a wealth of experience and knowledge to our 
Department.  We were fortunate to have landed Off. Theodoulou.  
 
Off. George “Trey” Tibbetts was elevated to a full time position after serving a short period of time as a 
Reserve Officer with the Department.  Off. Tibbetts was added to the Department in accordance with the 
Department’s 10 year hiring plan.  Trey completed his training in a relatively short period of time, and we are 
excited to watch him grow with the Department.  
 
The front desk position has been reclassified, and is now Public Safety Desk Clerk.  Kennedy Jackson has been 
hired as our new Public Safety Desk Clerk.  Kennedy comes from a family of Law Enforcement professionals, 
and is a recent graduate of Fitchburg State University with a Bachelor’s Degree in Criminal Justice. 
 
As we became fully staffed we anticipated filling our vacant positions.  The first and foremost was filling a 
vacant Sergeant’s position that would provide us much needed supervision for the Patrol Bureau.  We also 
anticipated filling a vacant Detective’s position, as well as adding an additional School Resource/Community 
Outreach Officer.      
 
Sgt. John Morreale was promoted to fill the vacant Sergeant’s position.  Sgt. Morreale has been with the 
Department since 2014 when he began his career as a Reserve Officer, and has worked up through the ranks as 
he has progressed in his career.  Sgt. Morreale has been assigned as the Department’s Accreditation Manager as 
well as the split shift patrol supervisor.   
 
Det. Joshua Mathieu was elevated to the Detective position.  Det. Mathieu started with the Department in 2011 
and has risen through the ranks to his current position.  Det. Mathieu brings a wealth of experience, knowledge 
and training to the position.  Det. Mathieu is an excellent investigator, and will be an excellent addition to the 
Investigative Bureau.    
 
On October 26, 2022 the Department was certified through the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission 
(MPAC), which is recognition as a best practice organization.  Through the tireless work of Sgt. Morreale, and 
the cooperation and collaboration with members of our Department we were able to complete the first phase of 
accreditation.  The Department was recognized and received the MPAC award on October 26, 2022 at the 
Commission’s award ceremony held that Marlborough Country Club.  We look forward to an accelerated 
process and becoming fully accredited by the summer of 2023.    
 
We continue to work towards a Co-response Model approach to mental health type of calls.  This would involve 
partnering officer(s) with a mental health clinician to assist with individuals in crisis.  We have been meeting 
with Community Health Link and Advocates to assess our needs, and develop a Co-response plan.  We have 
also been exploring a partnership with the Town of Lancaster to share a clinician between the towns.  We hope 
to have this program become a reality by the fall of 2023.            
 
2022 Statistical Information/Performance Measures: 
 
The overall goal of the Lunenburg Police Department is a reduction of crime, assure quality of life issues are 
addressed, and provide a safe community to live, work and visit.  The Department evaluates effectiveness, in 
part, by statistical information that is generated through the Records Management System.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
The following statistical information is to provide some insight into our officers’ activity for a three year 
comparison from 2020-2022: 
 
Activity 2020 2021 2022 
Calls for Service 20,118 26,063 27,156 
Arrests Total 382 407 400 
Arrests Custody 118 142 134 
Arrests Summons 256 254 261 
Protective Custody 8 11 5 
Motor Vehicle Accidents (MVA) Total 236 265 307 
MVA w/Injury 58 51 74 
MVA w/o Injury 134 180 197 
MVA Hit & Run 44 34 36 
Motor Vehicle Stops 2,480 3,680 3,572 
Citations Civil (fines) 114 122 89 
Citations Warnings 627 1,474 1340 
Citations Criminal Offenses 175 183 189 
MV Arrests 43 65 46 
Domestic Violence Related Incidents 101 72 77 
Arrests/Summons 34 22 22 
Restraining Orders (RO) 56 30 36 
RO Violations 16 11 12 
Animal Control Calls for Service 260 205 205 
Dog Bites 15 3 11 
Kennel Inspections 11 7 16 
Barn Inspections n/a n/a 23 
Mental Health 44 49 69 
Attempted/Threat of Suicide 23 23 33 
Mental Health Evaluations 21 26 36 
Firearms Licensing 267 269 222 
License to Carry 232 240 185 
Firearms Identification Card 8 8 11 
Over 70 (age) FID/LTC 22 21 25 
License to Sell/Ammunition/Gunsmith 3 N/A 1 
Machine Gun License 2 N/A N/A 
 
As result of the above calls our officers generated a total of 1,777 written reports.  There were 434 reports 
involving Incident Based Reporting (IBR), and National Incident Based Reporting (NIBRS), which is a State 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
and Federal Crime reporting data base.  The Officers also generated an additional 483 written reports that did 
not fall into the IBR/NIBRS category.   
 
According to NIBRS, reported crimes are broken down into three categories, Crimes Against Persons, Crimes 
Against Property, and Crimes Against Society.  These are further broken down into Group A and Group B 
categories to closely match the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) program.  The Lunenburg Police Department 
regularly reports IBR information to the State, which in turn reports the information to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation. 
     
In 2022 there has been a 19% increase in Group A, Crimes Against Persons, with Aggravated and Simple 
Assaults as well as Intimidation (witness/victim) accounting for the majority of the incidents with 39 out of 62 
total reported incidents.  These numbers appear to have a direct correlation to the Domestic Violence calls that 
officers have responded to in 2022.   
 
In 2022 there has been a 34% decrease in Group A, Crimes Against Property.  Although we have observed a 
decrease in property crimes, the area we have observed an increase is shoplifting, accounting for a majority of 
the incidents with 40 out of 142 total reported incidents.    
 
Budget Development: 
 
Our Budget is based on several key factors, such as Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA), current needs, 
future needs, and State mandates.  We have examined our previous fiscal budgets and looked for areas that need 
to be adjusted, whether it be reducing costs or reallocating finances to other areas of the budget. 
 
As an example, one of the areas that we examined is related to the 10 year hiring plan.  Staffing is evaluated 
based on minimum safe staffing levels for officer safety, the population of the town, our current workload 
assessment, the nature of calls for service, specialty assignments, and future growth of the town and 
surrounding communities.  We also look at national trends and possible future trends in Law Enforcement 
techniques, and criminal activity throughout the nation.   
  
Within our Budget Presentation there is a request for an additional salary for half year for a new officer 
according to the 10 year plan.  We are aware and understand why, that the Town Manager is putting the plan on 
pause for this fiscal year due budgetary concerns.  We have left this item in our request to show the overall costs 
associated with the addition.  Refer to Attachment A.  
 
We have examined our current budget and we have been able to identify areas that can be level funded or 
reduced.  We have been working with the Town Manager to determine the areas that could be reduced, or level 
funded from the previous year(s).  We believe we have provided a fiscally responsible budget while maintaining 
outstanding service to the community.    
 
FY23 Operating Budget Expenditures: 
 
Throughout the fiscal year we meet monthly to determine if we are on target with spending.  We review current 
spending based on payroll expenditures and other expenses to date.  Based on percentages we can reasonably 
determine where, if any, interdepartmental transfers will be needed or where we will have a surplus.  In that last 
two fiscal years we have had a surplus in salary lines due to staffing attrition and the amount of time we need to 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
properly vet potential candidates to fill open positions.  We have also had a surplus in our Lockup lines which is 
largely due to the ability to send detainees to Worcester County Sheriff’s Office Safekeep program.     
 
Early in the fiscal year an internal transfer was needed due to CBA being settled and ratified after the start of 
the new fiscal year.  Based on our current trend we will realize a surplus in the lockup expenses.  Currently all 
other line items are on target based on the expended percentages and the remaining weeks of the fiscal year.  
Refer to Attachment B.     
 
FY24 Operating Budget:  
 
Police Budget Allocation by percentage: 
 
• Personnel:   81% 
• Purchase of Services:  1% 
• Police Supplies:  1% 
• Other Expenses:  1% 
• Animal Control:  2% 
• Lockup:   1% 
• Radio Watch:   3% 
• Regional Dispatch:  8% (Public Safety Dispatch) 
• Vehicle Maintenance:  2% 
Salaries 
 
Personnel salaries are calculated based on the number of personnel within the Department, the Police Union 
Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) and Clerical Union CBA, and the Salary Administration Plan.  The 
salary expenses accounts for 72% of the personnel expenditures.  Refer to Attachment B.   
 
• Chief:     $115,005.00 
• Lieutenant (1):    $96,508.67 
• Sergeants (4):    $335,682.88 
• Detective (1):    $78,347.36 
• Patrol Officers (13):   $903,129.75     
• Public Safety Coordinator (1): $62,878.40 
• Part Time Clerical(1):   $8,873.28 
Total:      $1,600,425.34 
 
Incentives: 
 
Incentives are based on the CBA with the Police Union.  Incentives account for 11% of the personnel 
expenditures.  
 
• Court Officer Stipend:  $3,100.00 
• Shift Differential:   $31,848.02 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
• Longevity Pay:   $15,552.28 
• Uniform Allowance:   $31,000.00 
• Educational Incentive:  $132,901.37 
• SRO Stipend:    $2,000.00 
• Traffic Officer Stipend:  $2,000.00 
• K9 Care Stipend:   $19,095.09 
• FTO Differential:   $600.00 
• OIC Differential:   $1,440.00 
Total:      $229,286.76 
    
Overtime Expenses: 
 
A majority of the overtime costs are related to contractual obligations, which include backfilling shifts when 
officers take off for vacation, sick, personal, holiday and compensatory time.  Vacation and personal time off is 
calculated by the number of officers that are entitled to the benefit, and also takes into account their respective 
assignments.  Sick, holiday, compensatory is based on a five year average that takes into account the officers’ 
benefited time by contract.  The costs are then based on time and half to the Top Step Patrol scale due to the 
unknown nature of who will be filling the shifts.      
 
Investigative Field Services (IFS) overtime is any overtime that is not related to shift coverage.  This is usually 
related to officers staying past their shift to complete reports or finish investigations.  This also used for the 
Detective when conducting investigations that are beyond his scheduled hours or he is called in for a case.  
Again, this calculated based on a five year average.    
 
Community policing overtime is related Department initiatives that are brought to the community such as RAD, 
and radKIDS.  Comfort Dog Hank has made appearances throughout our community and region for various 
community events.  Our goal is to continue to provide community based services/events in FY24 such as 
Citizen’s Police Academy, and possibly a youth academy program.     
 
Overtime related expenses for the listed items accounts for 13% of the personnel expenses.  Overtime related to 
shift coverage accounts for 59% of these expenses.  Refer to Attachment C.       
   
• Overtime (Shift Coverage): $175,000.00 
• Community Policing:  $12,995.18 
• Holiday Pay:   $54,993.64 
• Court Time:   $15,800.00 
• IFS:    $36,695.72 
Total:     $295,484.54 
 
Training: 
 
Training is a critical the Department’s overall mission.  We constantly strive to provide our officers with most 
current and up to date training.  We also continuously look for innovative training opportunities to bring to our 
Department.  In recent training years officers have participated in mental health training, as well Crisis 
Intervention Team trainings, empathetics, and Bias trainings.   
 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
The Department also has two in-house officers trained as Active Shooter instructors, as well as five in-house 
firearm instructors.  This has training has been critical with recent and continuous events that occur around the 
nation.  It is our belief that the better our officers are trained the better they will perform in the field.   
 
A minimum of 40 hours of In-service Training is required by the state.  This includes Criminal and Motor 
Vehicle Legal updates, and Use of Force/Defensive Tactics.  We also are required to provide an additional 16 
hours of firearms training, 4 hours of CPR training, Less Lethal training, and specialized training as well as 
professional development.    
 
Training is calculated based on the amount officers at 70 hours at the overtime rate.  Training accounts for 4% 
of the overall budget.   
 
• In-Service/Specialized: $71,352.79 
• Firearms Training:  $16,309.21 
• Less-Lethal:   $8,154.60 
Total:     $95,816.60 
 
Total Personnel related expenses: $2,221,013.28 
 
Purchase of Services: 
 
Purchase of Services (POS) is related maintenance of Department equipment, printing and postage costs, 
Motorcycle lease.  POS accounts for 1% of the overall budget.  
 
• Equipment Maintenance: $12,700 
• Printing:   $3,500 
• Postage:   $750 
• Motorcycle Lease:  $5,000 
Total:     $21,950   
 
Supplies: 
 
Supply expenses relate to administration office supplies, firearms ammunition and related equipment, badges, 
and K-9 expenses for K9 and Comfort Dog.  Supplies account for 1% of the overall budget.  
 
• Officer Supplies:  $5,600 
• Firearms:   $15,000 
• Badges:   $1,050 
• K-9 Expenses:   $8,000 
Total:     $29,650 
 
Other Charges and Expenses: 
 
Other Charges and Expenses are software, dues and memberships, and training course fees.  
The expenses account for 1% of the overall budget. 
 
===PAGE 12===
12 
 
• DTS Software:   $4,080 
• Dues/memberships:   $6,000 
• Training Course Fees:   $23,600 
Total:      $33,680 
 
Animal Control: 
 
The Animal Control Officer (ACO) is a stipended position.  Expenses related to the ACO accounts for 2% of 
the overall budget.  
 
• ACO Salary:   $20,000 
• Care and Custody:  $15,000 
• Veterinary Charges:  $6,000 
• Printing:   $500 
• Office Supplies:  $3,500 
• Temporary Kennel:  $4,000 
• Animal Inspector  $1,000 
Total:     $50,000 
 
Lockup: 
 
The Department has the ability to house individuals who have been arrested and are unable to be released.  The 
Department has five adult cells and one juvenile cell.  These cells are meant to be temporary in nature with the 
longest stay being a long weekend.  We have been able to reduce the costs in this area primarily due to the 
Safekeep program through the Worcester County Sheriff’s Department (WCSO).  WCSO will house male 
detainees overnight and weekends, and will also provide transportation to their next court appearance.  Female 
detainees have to be house within the Department’s facility.  
 
Lockup expenses account for 1% of the overall budget.   
 
• Payroll:   $20,000 
• Purchase of Service:  $2,800 
• Supplies:   $2,800 
 
Total:     $25,600 
 
Radio Watch: 
 
This expense is related to covering the front desk Monday through Friday, 07:00 AM – 7:00 PM.  The dayshift, 
07:00 AM to 3:00 PM is covered by the Public Safety Desk Clerk.  The 3:00 PM to 7:00 PM shift is put out to 
shift bid with Reserve Officers having first right of refusal.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 13===
13 
 
Radio Watch expenses account for 3% of the overall budget.  
 
• Salaries Clerical:  $49.052.48 
• Salaries Reserves/Call FF $46,729.74 
Total:     $95,782.22 
 
NVRDD Assessment: 
 
Lunenburg Police/Fire/EMS are a part of the Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District.  The expense is 
related to the Town’s portion paid to NVRDD for emergency dispatch services.   
 
Total:     $2112, 921.42 
 
Vehicle Maintenance:  
 
The Department vehicle are maintained by the mechanic at the Department of Public Works, which also 
maintain the Department’s fuel supply.  The costs includes tires, breaks, oil and other related services.   
 
Vehicle maintenance expenses accounts for 2% of the budget.  
 
• Purchase of Service:  $9,000 
• Supplies:   $18,000 
• Fuel:    $40,000 
Total:     $67,000 
 
 
Total Operating Budget:  $2,757,596.88 
 
As we have stated we continuously evaluate our budget, and look for areas that can be reduced and or level 
funded.  We believe that we have requested a fiscally responsible budget to the Town Manger that she has 
tentatively approved.   
 
Capital Purchases:  
 
Upon completing the evaluation of the Department fleet and equipment we have determined that we can delay 
our 10 year Capital Purchase Plan by a year.  In FY2025 we will again evaluate our needs, and determine what 
we our need(s) will be at that point. 
 
FY23 Capital Purchases Update: 
 
• F150 
o Scheduled for Delivery 
• Ford Explorer Hybrid 
o In Production 
 
 
===PAGE 14===
14 
 
• K9 
o Off. Wagner 
o Researching Breeds 
o Purchase Scheduled Closer to Training Date 
FY23 New Budget Requests Funded: 
 
• Part Time Administrative Clerk 
o Interviewing 
• Motorcycle Lease 
o Motorcycle delivered in use 
• Comfort Dog Hank  
o Expenditures in progress 
Department Goals: 
 
1. Increase the staffing levels according to the 10 year hiring plan.  Although this plan has been paused for 
a year due to budgetary constraints this still is a priority moving forward.  
a. By increasing staffing levels the Department will be able to provide more efficient and effective 
police services. 
b. Specialty positions, such as Detectives, School Resource Officers, Community Outreach Officer, 
and Traffic Officers can be filled and utilized to their full potential.  
2. Develop a Co-Response team for Mental Health calls for service. 
a. Mental Health Clinician to be embedded within the Department. 
b. Respond with officers to calls for individuals who are in crisis, and provide expert guidance in 
the field.  
c. Provide follow up and resources to assist with treatment.  
3. Maintain the Department Training hours to be in compliance with State (MPTC) mandates for In-
Service training, and POSTC standards.   
a. In-Service Training for all officers. 
i. 40 hours In-Service  
ii. 16 hours of Firearms Training 
iii. 8 hours of Less Lethal 
iv. 4 hours of yearly CPR 
v. 16 hours of Professional Development 
4. Develop and implement an evaluation process for all Department Employees.  The evaluation has been 
on our radar and part of goals each year.  We will continue to list this as a goal until we accomplish. 
a. Allows for recognition of employees. 
b. Allow to focus on areas of training that an officer may be deficient in.  
c. Provides guidance and direction for officers seeking promotion and advancement.  
5. Accreditation 
a. We are anticipating full Accreditation by summer of 2023.  
b. Maintain the standards and requirements according to Massachusetts Police Accreditation 
Commission.  
===PAGE 15===
15 
 
 
Conclusion:  
 
I would like to thank the Citizens of Lunenburg for their continued support.  Without collaboration with our 
Community we would not be successful.  We look forward to the New Year, and to continue to bring the very 
best in policing to our Community. 
 
I would also like to thank the women and men of the Lunenburg Police Department for their dedication to the 
Community, and the work that they perform on a daily basis.  The personnel of the Department play a vital role 
in making Lunenburg a great place to live, work and visit for all.   
 
Thank you,  
 
 
 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel  
 