===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Police Department 
 
Policy Number: 
4.38 
Subject:  
Hiring Process 
Reserve Police Officers 
Issue Date: 
11/20/2020 
Revision Date: 
10/23/2021; 2/3/2022 
Effective Date:  
11/20/2020 
Massachusetts Police Accreditation 
Standards Referenced: 
16.3.9; 32.1.1; 32.1.4; 32.2.1; 32.2.2; 32.2.2; 
32.2.10 
Issuing Authority: 
 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel 
 
 
Page 1 of 9 
 
I. POLICY 
The Lunenburg Police Department is committed to hiring the most qualified candidates 
for a Reserve Police Officer position within the Department.  The intention of the 
Department is to be reflective of the community that it serves, and provide a diversified 
work force.    
II. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS [32.2.1]  
A. Successfully completed a Massachusetts Police Training Committee (MPTC) 
accredited Reserve Intermittent Police Academy or equivalent.   
B. Must meet requirements of POST Certification equal to that of full-time in 
accordance with MGL Ch. 6E § 4(g). 
C. High School Graduate, General Education Diploma (GED), or equivalent. [16.3.9] 
D. Bachelor Degree preferred, a combination of education and experience will be 
considered.  
E. No Felony convictions. 
F. Possess a License to Carry (LTC) Class A at the time of employment. 
G. Possess a valid Driver’s License. 
III. REQUIREMENTS [32.1.4]  
A.  Candidates must meet the Essential Functions of a Police Officer, as defined by the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts (Appendix A).  
IV. APPLICATION PROCESS [32.1.4]  
 A.  Resume. 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 9 
 
 B.  Completed Town of Lunenburg Employment Application.  
V. EMPLOYMENT PROCESS 
 A.  Interview with a panel, who are selected by the Chief of Police and Lieutenant.  
 B.  A ranked list will be established by the panel.  
 C.  Final interview with Chief of Police and the Lieutenant.  
 D.  Conditional Offer of Employment. 
E.  Successfully completed Background Investigation. [32.2.1; 32.2.2; 32.2.3] prior to 
appointment to probationary status, which includes: 
a. verification of qualifying credentials; 
b. a review of any criminal record; and 
c. verification of at least three personal references. 
d. Background Investigation records for hired candidates will be retained 
permanently. 
 F.  Pass Pre-employment Medical Examination.  
 G.  Pass Pre-employment Psychological Examination. 
H.  Successfully complete the MPTC Physical Ability Test (PAT).  
VI. PROBATIONARY PERIOD [32.2.10] 
A.  Upon appointment Reserve Officers will complete a probationary period of 12 
months.   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 9 
 
Appendix A:  Essential Functions of a Police Officer 
I. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS POLICE OFFICER TASK LIST 
 
A. Patrol And Incident Response 
 
1. Provide back-up to other police personnel. 
2. In response to a report of child abuse, observe and evaluate the physical or 
mental condition of the child, notify the appropriate agencies, and/or place the 
child in protective custody to protect the child from physical or mental harm. 
3. Respond to a crime in progress and secure the area to effect an arrest. 
4. When confronted with victim(s), conduct patient assessment and administer 
immediate care to prevent further injury, trauma, or death. 
5. Communicate/negotiate with a hostage taker to reduce his/her anxiety and 
prevent the loss of life pending arrival of hostage negotiator. 
6. Appraise the situation, separate individuals, and discuss the grievances to restore 
order at a domestic dispute. 
7. Use communications equipment (e.g., radio, computer, telephone) to exchange 
information relative to official duties (e.g., reporting status and location to 
dispatcher, maintaining contact with other agencies). 
8. Operate a Department vehicle at a high rate of speed, using emergency lights and 
siren and maintaining public safety, to respond to emergency calls for service. 
9. Request assistance from other police personnel. 
10. Respond to an alarm, secure area, and inspect for entry to protect life and 
property and apprehend the violator or violators. 
11. Participate in a large scale coordinated search for one or more persons (e.g., 
escapees, mental patients, lost people, etc.) to locate or apprehend the person(s). 
12. Separate individuals in a fight or disturbance (not a domestic dispute) to restore 
order and minimize injury to those individuals or property. 
13. Operate a Department vehicle under non-emergency conditions within a 
specific geographic area to observe and detect unusual activities or circumstances, 
or violations of the law in order to deter crime and provide service to the public. 
14. Protect one or more persons (confidential sources, witnesses, etc.) to provide for 
the safety and security of the person(s) and the public. 
15. Respond to incidents requiring your presence as specified in Departmental 
policies. 
16. Maintain current information such as names, faces, and previous arrest records 
of known criminals believed to be in the area. 
17. Observe and check entrances to buildings and premises to maintain security of 
property. 
18. Identify a person as disturbed (e.g., mentally, emotionally) or incapacitated 
(e.g., drunk, epileptic) and detain that person in order to provide for placement. 
19. Erect physical barriers, bodily serve as a barrier, issue verbal commands, and/or 
utilize the necessary degree of authority to effect the safe, peaceful, and orderly 
flow of a crowd of people. 
20. Patrol a specific geographic area on foot to observe and detect unusual activities 
or circumstances, or violations of the law. 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 9 
 
21. Serve on special details to help maintain peace (e.g., abortion demonstrations, 
animal rights).  
 
B. Traffic Enforcement 
 
1. When outside of vehicle (e.g., making a traffic stop), monitor pedestrian or 
vehicular traffic to reduce risk of injury to self or others and take evasive action 
when necessary. 
2. Conduct field sobriety tests to determine probable cause for breath or blood test 
and/or arrest for alcohol or drug use. 
3. Protect an accident scene to allow for a determination of the facts of the accident. 
4. Direct/reroute traffic, place emergency signaling devices (e.g., flares) or take 
other necessary action to ensure a safe and orderly flow of traffic when 
confronted with unusual traffic conditions (e.g., accidents, stoplight out, parades). 
5. Determine the status (e.g., stolen, disabled) of a stopped or abandoned vehicle, 
including checking for inhabitants (e.g., children, victims). 
6. Estimate vehicle speed visually or use speed detection equipment (e.g., radar, 
lydar, vascar, stopwatches) to determine the speed of a vehicle. 
7. Stop vehicles for cause and check for required documents, defective equipment 
(e.g., headlights, tires), and other violations to issue citations or warnings and to 
aid in the safe and legal operation of vehicles on the road. 
8. Issue a citation to a traffic violator. 
9. Impound or supervise impounding of equipment or vehicles left on the roadway. 
 
C. Investigations 
 
1. Identify and collect evidence at a crime scene to preserve that evidence for use in 
an investigation. 
2. Protect a crime scene from contamination by controlling access to the scene and 
erecting physical barriers to preserve the evidence of a crime. 
3. Document the elements of a crime and identify potential witnesses and suspects 
to produce a prosecutable case. 
4. Evaluate evidence (e.g., article, substance) to determine its relationship to an 
investigation. 
5. Transport evidence to various locations (e.g., lab, court), maintaining an 
unbroken chain of custody. 
6. Canvass the neighborhood, asking questions of persons in order to locate and 
identify one or more witnesses, victims, or suspects of a crime. 
7. Inspect a suspected controlled substance to make a preliminary determination of 
its identity and request further lab tests as needed. 
8. Determine the probable facts of the incident from examination and comparison of 
statements and other evidence. 
9. Interview and take written statements from the general public, witnesses, victims, 
or suspects to obtain and record information pertinent to the enforcement, 
regulatory, and service functions of the Department. 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 9 
 
10. Evaluate individuals to determine their credibility and/or manner in which they 
should be handled (e.g., during interrogations). 
11. Identify assets for potential seizure at a crime scene. 
12. Observe one or more persons, places, and/or things to collect information and 
evidence of criminal activities. 
 
D. Arrest-Related Activities 
 
1. Display or discharge a Departmentally approved firearm to protect self and/or the 
public. 
2. Display or utilize a Departmentally issued non-firearm weapon (baton, spray) in 
a defensive manner to control one or more persons in accordance with 
Department policy. 
3. Search one or more persons for weapons, fruits of a crime, or contraband to 
effect an arrest, protect oneself and the public, and/or to obtain evidence. 
4. Search a vehicle for weapons, fruits of crime, or contraband to effect an arrest, 
protect self and the public, and/or to obtain evidence. 
5. Distinguish between felony and misdemeanor classifications when making 
arrests. 
6. Search a building for individuals, weapons, fruits of a crime, or contraband to 
effect an arrest, protect self and the public, and/or to obtain evidence. 
7. Physically restrain or subdue a violent or resisting individual or arrestee to 
protect self, the person being restrained, and the public, or to effect custody of an 
arrestee. 
8. Determine applicability of Miranda when arresting and detaining suspects. 
9. Signal a felon to stop (e.g., emergency light, siren, P.A.) in order to effect an 
arrest or contain the felon and await backup. 
10. Make judgments about probable cause for warrantless searches. 
11. Operate a Department vehicle at a high rate of speed, maintaining public safety 
and in compliance with Departmental pursuit policy, to pursue and apprehend one 
or more violators. 
12. Determine whether suspects require medical attention. 
13. Physically restrain or control a non-violent individual or arrestee to protect self, 
the person being restrained, and the public, or to effect custody of an arrestee. 
14. Ensure prisoners are held and detained in compliance with Departmental policy 
and applicable statutes. 
15. Legally force entry into building to apprehend suspect and/or evidence. 
16. Record the arrest of an individual (e.g., fill out forms, photograph) to document 
that arrest and possible detention. 
17. Pursue a suspect or violator on foot. 
18. Review computer and/or booking sheet to obtain information about booked 
suspects (e.g., criminal history, outstanding warrants). 
19. Make recommendations for strip or body cavity search. 
20. Transport person(s) (e.g., witness, victim), maintaining safety, for some official 
purpose. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 9 
 
E. Evidence/Property Management 
 
1. Ensure the secure storage of evidence and property in the designated location. 
2. Ensure the maintenance of chain of custody for evidence. 
3. Release property or evidence to authorized individuals. 
 
F. Record And Report Management 
 
1. Write narrative reports (e.g., incident reports, intelligence reports) providing 
complete, accurate and consistent information. 
2. Summarize in writing the statements of witnesses and complainants. 
3. Fill in forms requiring specific information accurately and completely. 
4. Record information required by Department guidelines in proper logs. 
5. Document incoming communications (e.g., requests for information, training) 
and communicate that information to other personnel as necessary. 
6. Maintain logs (written and/or computerized) of activities occurring during the 
shift (e.g., accidents, significant incidents) to maintain a record. 
 
G. Court 
 
1. Appear and testify as a witness in an official proceeding (e.g., traffic court, trial, 
Civil Service hearing) to assist in fulfilling the Department's role in the judicial 
and administrative process. 
2. Review search and arrest warrants prior to presentation to judge or prosecutor for 
signing. 
3. Review and discuss the details of a specific investigation with prosecutor to plan 
investigatory strategy, prepare for a court presentation, etc. 
4. Prepare search or arrest warrants. 
 
H. Community Relations 
 
1. Communicate with neighborhood youths to facilitate police-community 
relationships and deter criminal behavior. 
2. Participate in cooperative operations (e.g., Task Forces, executing warrants) to 
address community conditions and crime. 
3. Contact the immediate family of an individual (in person) or notify uniformed 
personnel to provide information to the family concerning that person's injury or 
death. 
4. Attend meetings (e.g., community meetings, concerned citizens) to discuss and 
exchange information, address problems, coordinate and develop plans of action, 
etc. 
5. Provide information upon request to individuals and groups (e.g., business 
people, neighborhood groups) to increase awareness of potential victimization and 
deter crime. 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 9 
 
6. Provide assistance and information to civilians seeking help (e.g., directions, 
explanations of municipal codes and ordinances, referrals to other Department 
personnel or other agencies/entities). 
7. Maintain current information about available social agencies and their roles for 
use in referring citizens seeking help. 
8. Discuss police actions with relatives of prisoners or complainants. 
 
I. Police Department Property Management 
 
1. Clean and inspect weapons. 
2. Conduct inventory of assigned vehicles and equipment to ensure that necessary 
equipment is available when needed. 
3. Recognize vehicle and/or equipment damage or malfunctions(s) and ensure that 
necessary repairs are performed. 
4. Maintain clothing and personal equipment to satisfy inspection requirements. 
5. Maintain personal copies of Departmental directives as required by Department 
policy. 
 
J. Supervision 
 
1. Attend or conduct roll call. 
2. Determine whether or not to terminate vehicle pursuits based on location of 
pursuit, weather, severity of crime, etc. 
3. Visit hospital to check on officers involved in shooting incidents. 
4. Ensure investigative activities (e.g., court affidavits, court-ordered surveillance, 
searches) are executed in compliance with legal requirements. 
5. Monitor radio traffic to keep informed of personnel activities and ensure proper 
assignment (e.g., need for backup, reassignment of officers). 
6. Monitor subordinates who have contact with seized property (e.g., narcotics). 
7. Attempt to resolve conflicts that arise between subordinates. 
8. Field check activities of subordinates to monitor performance and compliance 
with Department policies, procedures and applicable laws. 
 
K. Personnel Evaluation And Counseling  
 
1. N/A 
 
 
 
L. Personnel Assignment And Coordination 
 
1. N/A 
 
M. Training Delivery 
 
1. N/A 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
N. Command 
 
1. Assume command at hostage/barricaded suspect situations pending arrival of 
command staff and specialized units.  
2. Establish staging area at serious incident scene for briefing of personnel, etc. 
pending arrival of the command staff and specialty units.  
3. Direct evacuations to ensure the safety of police personnel and the public. 
4. Recognize emergency situation and implement emergency mobilization plan.  
5. Monitor police activity by radio. 
6. Assume command at incident scene during routine situations, issue assignments, 
orders, and instructions to personnel to coordinate, direct, and assist them with 
their activities (e.g., rerouting traffic, securing crime scene, evidence collection). 
7. Attend briefings to discuss tactical plans and assignments when required. 
 
O. Internal/External Communications & Coordination 
 
1. Monitor police activity by radio. 
2. Notify dispatcher of special conditions that may affect or are affecting sector 
operations as required by Department procedures. 
3. Communicate with other Department personnel informally to discuss and 
exchange information (e.g., intelligence), address problems, etc.  
4. Monitor and respond to routine communications (e.g., phone).  
5. Consult with superior to provide/receive assistance with assigned operational 
activities and keep him/her apprised of potential developments/problems.  
6. Request documents in records systems (e.g., pictures, criminal histories, etc.). 
7. Notify other Police Department units of unusual situations and conditions as 
necessary and appropriate.  
8. Contact other police Departments and law enforcement agencies (e.g., FBI) for 
information and assistance. 
9. Communicate with individuals from other city/state/federal agencies/entities to 
exchange information and accomplish work objectives.  
10. Respond to requests for information from superior personnel.  
11. Answer investigative inquiries from other law enforcement agencies or refer 
inquiry appropriately.  
12. Contact outside agencies and organizations (e.g., social service agencies) for 
information. 
 
 
P. Research And Planning 
 
1. Read and review professional literature, technical journals, and newsletters to 
determine their application to Division operations and to keep abreast of current 
practices and developments. 
2. Make suggestions to improve the effectiveness or efficiency of Department units. 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 9 
 
Q. Financial Management 
 
1. N/A 
 
R. Professional Development 
 
1. Participate in in-service training and recertification programs including firearms, 
policies, and practical/tactical exercises (e.g., defensive tactics) to receive 
information and develop skills.  
2. Read and keep up-to-date on federal, state, and local statutes/ordinances and 
court decisions to ensure appropriate enforcement and investigatory activities. 
3. Read internal reports and training materials to keep current on procedures and 
issues.  
4. Read and keep up-to-date on Departmental policies and procedures to ensure 
appropriate enforcement, investigatory, and administrative activities. 
Read outside literature (e.g., texts and journals) to keep current on law enforcement topics. 