===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
FISCAL YEAR 2025 
 
 
 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 
& 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
Annual Town Meeting 
May 4, 2024- 9:00 A.M. 
Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium 
 
Annual Town Election  
May 18, 2024 
T.C. Passios Building 
Polls open at 7:00 A.M. and close at 5:00 P.M. 
PLEASE BRING THIS WARRANT WITH YOU TO TOWN MEETING 
===PAGE 2===
 
2 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
2024 ANNUAL TOWN ELECTION WARRANT 
May 18, 2024 
Worcester, ss:  
To John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings:  
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the inhabitants of 
the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the Thomas C. Passios Building in 
said Lunenburg on Saturday, the 18th day of May next, at 7:00 o'clock in the forenoon, and then and there to act on 
the following: 
*********************************************************************************************  
POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M.  POLLS SHALL BE CLOSED AT 5:00 P.M.      
*********************************************************************************************  
Shall the Town vote to choose by ballot the following officers? 
  
MODERATOR        3  YEARS 
SELECT BOARD MEMBER 3  YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER 3  YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER 3  YEARS 
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER 3  YEARS 
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER 3  YEARS 
ASSESSOR 3  YEARS 
ASSESSOR 1  YEAR 
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER   3  YEARS 
PARK COMMISSIONER 3  YEARS 
PARK COMMIISSIONER 2  YEARS 
COMMISSIONER OF TRUST FUNDS 3  YEARS 
CEMETERY COMMISSIONER 3  YEARS 
CEMETERY COMMISSIONER 2 YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 3  YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 3  YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 3  YEARS 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 5  YEARS 
 HOUSING AUTHORITY 5  YEARS 
    
QUESTION 1.   OVERRIDE 
 
Shall the Town of Lunenburg be allowed to assess an additional $948,136 in real estate and personal property taxes 
for the purpose of funding the Lunenburg Public School Department for the fiscal year beginning July first two 
thousand and twenty four? 
 
Yes_____  No_____ 
 
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public places in the 
Town, seven (7) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one of which places shall be at the Town 
Hall, one at Whalom Variety Store in the Whalom-Bakerville District, one at Powell’s, and one at Jaxx Variety and 
by mailing a copy to each dwelling unit in the Town in which a registered voter resides at least seven (7) days prior 
to such election. 
Hereof, fail not and make due return of this Warrant, with your doings thereon, to the Town Clerk at the time and 
place aforesaid. 
Given under our hands, this 9th day of April in the year two thousand and twenty four  
 
A True copy attest:  Michael Ray Jeffreys, Chairman          
Kathryn M. Herrick, Town Clerk  Louis J. Franco, Vice-Chairman 
  Caesar J. Nuzzolo, Clerk  
  Thomas A. Alonzo, Member 
  Renee Emkey, Member 
===PAGE 3===
 
3 
 
 
 
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM- A blueprint for planning a community’s capital expenditures 
that comprises an annual capital budget and a five -year capital program.  It coordinates community 
planning, fiscal capacity and physical development.   
CHERRY SHEET/STATE AID – Revenue allocated by the Commonwealth to cities, towns, and regional 
school districts.  Estimates of local aid are transmitted to cities, towns, and districts annually by the “Cherry 
Sheets”.  Most Cherry Sheet aid programs are considered general fund revenues and may be spent for any 
purpose, subject to appropriation. 
DEBT EXCLUSION- An action taken by a community through a referendum vote to raise the funds 
necessary to pay debt service costs for a particular project from the property tax levy but outside of the 
limits under Proposition 2 ½.  By approving a debt exclusion, a community calculates its annual levy limit 
under Proposition 2 ½, then adds the excluded debt service cost.  The amount is added to the levy limit for 
the life of the debt only and may increase the levy above the levy ceiling. 
EXCESS LEVY CAPACITY- The difference between the levy limit and the amount of real and personal 
property taxes actually levied in a given year.  Annually, the Selectmen must be informed of excess levy 
capacity at the Tax Rate Hearing and this is submitted to DLS when setting the tax rate. 
FREE CASH  – Remaining, unrestricted funds from operations of the previous fiscal year including 
unexpended free cash from the previous year, actual receipts in excess of revenue estimates shown on the 
tax recapitulation sheet, and unspent amounts in budget line -items.  Unpaid property taxes and certain 
deficits reduce the amount that can be certified as free cash.  The calculation of free cash is based on the 
balance sheet as of June 30, which is submitted by the Town Accountant.  Free Cash is not available  for 
appropriation until certified by the Director of Accounts. 
LOCAL RECEIPTS- Locally generated revenues, other than real and personal property taxes.  Examples 
include motor vehicle excise, investment income, meals tax, fees, rentals, and charges.  Annual estimates 
of local receipts are shown on the tax rate recapitulation sheet. 
OVERLAY – (Allowance for Abatements and Exemptions) An account established annually to fund 
anticipated property tax abatements, exemptions and uncollected taxes in that year.   
RESERVE FUND - This fund is used by the Finance Committee to provide for extraordinary or unforeseen 
expenditures.  The total amount appropriated in any one year may not exceed 5% of the tax levy.  No direct 
drafts against this fund can be made, but transfers from the  fund can be authorized by the Finance 
Committee. 
RETAINED EARNINGS-  An equity account reflecting the accumulated earnings of an enterprise fund, 
which may be used to fund capital improvements, reimburse the general fund for prior year subsidies, 
reduce user charges, or provide for enterprise revenue deficits (operating losses). 
STABILIZATION FUND – A fund designed to accumulate amounts for capital and other future spending 
purposes, although it may be appropriated for any lawful purpose.  Communities may establish one or more 
stabilization funds for different purposes and may appropriate any amoun ts into them.  A two -thirds vote 
of town meeting is required to establish, amend the purpose of, or appropriate money from a stabilization 
fund.  A majority vote of town meeting is required to appropriate money into a stabilization fund.   
 
 
RECOMMEND APPROVAL:  The board voted to recommend passage by Town Meeting. 
NOT RECOMMENDED:   The board voted to not recommend passage by Town Meeting. 
NO RECOMMENDATION:  The board voted to make no specific recommendation to Town Meeting.   
NO DIRECT FINANCIAL IMPACT:  The Finance Committee votes this article does not have a 
financial impact. 
DEFERRED:  A recommendation will be announced by this board when the article is considered at 
Town Meeting. 
 
DEFINITIONS OF RECOMMENDATIONS UNDER EACH ARTICLE 
FINANCIAL TERMS 
===PAGE 4===
 
4 
 
CAPITAL PLANNING REPORT 
Fiscal Year 2025 Capital Plan 
 
The Capital Planning Committee began the capital planning process for Fiscal Year 2025 in 
August 2023. The Capital Planning documents were sent to departments in early September and 
the Capital Planning Committee met the departments throughout November and finalized their 
review of all the capital projects requests as a group in December. The Capital Planning 
Committee prioritized 35 capital projects for a total of $3,474,767. The Committee presented the 
prioritized list to the Town Manager in January as required by the Town Charter and the Town 
Manager is recommending funding 10 of the prioritized projects totaling $1,317,119 using a 
combination of Free Cash and unexpended funding from previous capital projects. 
 
Below is the FY 2025 Capital Plan being recommended for approval at the Annual Town 
Meeting: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More information on the individual capital requests can be found on the town website at: 
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/552/FY25-FY34-Capital-Planning-Documents 
 
 
Capital Planning Committee Members: 
Tom Alonzo, Chair, Select Board Representative 
Chris Menard, Vice-Chair, Finance Committee Representative 
Peter Beardmore, Clerk, School Committee Representative 
Matthew Brenner, Planning Board Representative 
George Martin, Member At Large 

===PAGE 5===
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX OF MAY 4, 2024 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
Article Description Cost Source 
 
1 
 
Reports from Committees 
 
N/A 
 
N/A 
2 Re-Authorize Revolving Funds $266,000 Various Revenue 
Sources 
3 Creation of Wetland Revolving Fund $50,000  Fees collected under 
Wetlands Protection 
Bylaw and regulations 
4 Payment of Prior Year Expenses $1,994.55 Transfer from Free Cash 
 
5 
Amendments to Appropriations and Sources of Funds for 
FY 2024 
N/A Transfer from Available 
Funds 
6 FY 2025 Capital Improvement Plan $1,317,119.98 Transfer from Available 
Funds 
7 FY 2025 Omnibus Budget $44,024,349.19 Raise & Appropriate, 
Transfer from Available 
Funds 
8 FY 2025 Proposition 2 ½ for the purpose of supplemental 
funding for the Lunenburg School Department 
$948,136 Raise & Appropriate 
9 Amendment to Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Schedule A 
for adding, changing, and amending position titles/grades 
 
N/A 
             N/A 
10 Amendment to Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Schedule 
A-Salary Administration Plan FY24 and FY25 Wage 
Schedule 
 
 FY24: $89,771.61 
FY25: $110,948.87 
 
Transfer from Available 
Funds 
11 Amendment to Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Section 20 
“Sick Leave” 
N/A                  N/A 
12 Regular Stabilization Fund $100,000 Transfer from Free Cash 
13 Special Purpose Stabilization Fund $250,000 Transfer from Free Cash 
14 OPEB Trust Fund (Town and Sewer Enterprise) $187,061 
$1,500 
Transfer from Free Cash 
and 
Transfer from Sewer 
Retained Earnings 
 
15 
 
FY 2025 Sewer Enterprise Budget 
 
$1,712,419.87 
Anticipated Receipts 
and Retained Earnings 
& Transfer from 
available funds 
===PAGE 6===
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund 
 
 
 
$35,000 
Transfer from Retained 
Earnings 
 
17 FY 2025 Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise 
Budget 
 
$500,000 
Solid Waste Disposal 
Enterprise Revenues and 
Retained Earnings 
18  
FY 2025 Water Enterprise Budget         $45,000 Water Enterprise 
Revenues 
 
19 
 
FY 2025 PEG Access Budget 
 
$180,843.03 
PEG Access Anticipated 
Receipts and Retained 
Earnings 
 
20 
 
  Care, Improvement and Embellishment of Town Cemeteries 
 
$10,000 
Transfer from Sale of 
Cemetery Lots 
 
21 Decrease the age of exemption as allowed by G.L. c. 59, 
section 5 (41C) from 70 to 65, exemption amount, and 
income and asset limits according to the statute 
  
22 Re-adopt provisions of Section 20 of Chapter 32B of G.L., 
as amended by Section 15 of Chapter 218 of the Acts of 
2016 establishing an Other Post-Employment Benefits 
Liability Trust Fund 
  
23 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, “Boards, 
Commissions and Committees” by adding new Article IV 
“Historical Commission” codifying affirmed May 1979 and 
May 2008 ATM votes 
  
24 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, Section 4.G “Use 
Table” and Section 4.13 “Solar energy systems” for Battery 
Energy Storage Systems 
  
25 Amendment to Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.9, 
Protective Bylaw “Water Supply Protection District” 
  
===PAGE 7===
 
7 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
May 4, 2024 
Worcester, ss: 
To:  John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings: 
 
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the 
inhabitants to the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the 
Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium in said Lunenburg  on Saturday, t he 4th day of May 
next, at 9:00 o'clock in the morning (9:00 A.M.), for the purpose of taking action on the Town Meeting 
Warrant, and then and there to act on the following articles, viz: 
 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town 
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval  
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, 
committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town’s General 
Bylaws; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
Revolving Fund FY25 Spending  
Limit 
Ambulance Billing $100,000 
Timber Rights $10,000 
School Custodial Special Details $13,000 
Green Thumb $5,000 
Library Revolving $12,000 
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $45,000 
Stormwater Task Force $5,000 
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector Revolving $46,000 
Technology Revolving  $30,000 
 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c. 44, § 53E½, to amend 
the General  Bylaws of the Town of Lunenburg, Chapter 138, entitled “Departmental Revolving Funds,” 
Subsection 5, entitled “Authorized revolving funds,” further Subsection D, by adding thereto the 
following revolving fund, and by identifying the authority designated to spend said fund, its source of 
revenue, its authorized uses and any restrictions or conditions thereon: 
===PAGE 8===
 
8 
 
 
Revolving 
Fund 
Department, 
Board, 
Committee, 
Agency or 
Officer 
Authorized to 
Spend from 
the Fund 
Fees, 
Charges or 
Other 
Receipts 
Credited to 
the Fund 
Program or 
Activity 
Expenses 
Payable from 
Fund 
Restrictions 
or Conditions 
on Expenses 
Payable from 
Fund 
Fiscal 
Years 
Local 
Wetlands 
Protection 
Bylaw Fees 
Conservation 
Commission 
Fees collected 
under the 
Wetlands 
Protection 
Bylaw and 
accompanying 
regulations 
Costs related 
to the 
administration 
and 
enforcement 
of the 
Wetlands 
Protection 
Bylaw and 
accompanying 
regulations 
None 
Fiscal Year 
2025 and 
subsequent 
years 
 
and, further, to authorize a spending limit of $ 50,000 for said fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 
2024, to be expended in accordance with the aforementioned Chapter 138, as now amended; or take any 
other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Deferred     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Deferred  
 
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary 
to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2024 Budget, under Article 7 of the May 6, 2023 Annual 
Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 14, 2023 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action 
relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Deferred       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Deferred 
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available 
funds a sum of money for the FY 2025 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee 
Report; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 6-1     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval   
 
===PAGE 9===
 
9 
 
ARTICLE 7.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2025 and to fix the salaries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town 
Manager; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-1-1      
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval   
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate $948,136 to supplement the 
Lunenburg Public School’s budget for Fiscal Year 2025, contingent upon the passage of a Proposition 
2 ½ ballot question; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-2     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 3-2 
 
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary 
Administration Plan,” Section 70-8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” Subsection A, and specifically Schedule 
A as referenced therein, being the Classification and Salary Schedule of the Town of Lunenburg for FY 
2025, as follows: the position of Library Page to be assigned to Grade 2; the position of Council on Aging 
Meal Site Manager to be assigned to Grade 7; the position of Outreach Coordinator to be assigned to 
Grade 8; the position of PAC Manager to be assigned to Grade 12; the position of Police Executive 
Assistant to be added and assigned to Grade 10; and to rename the Reserve Officer position title to Police 
Reserve Officer; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Personnel Committee)   
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact 6-0-1  
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of 
Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” Section 70-8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” 
Subsection A,  and specifically Schedule A as referenced therein, as amended, with a  FY 2024 Salary 
Schedule and FY 2025 Salary Schedule as recommended by the Personnel Committee, which authorizes 
wage increases for Fiscal Year 2024 and Fiscal Year 2025, for permanent employees not covered by a 
collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract; and, further, to transfer a sum of money from 
available funds to fund the wage increase for FY2024 and transfer a sum of money from available funds 
to fund the wage increases for FY2025, for Salary Administration Plan employees; or take any other 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by Personnel Committee)   
  
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval  
 
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled 
“Salary Administration Plan,” Section 20, entitled “Sick Leave,”, as follows, with additions underlined :  
F. Sick Time can be used for any of the following reasons:  
1. Care for the employee’s own physical or mental illness, injury or medical condition that 
requires home care or rest, professional medical diagnosis or care, or preventative medical 
care;  
2. Care for the employee’s child, spouse, parent or parent of a spouse, who is suffering from 
a physical or mental illness, injury, or medical condition that requires home care, professional 
medical diagnosis or care, or preventive medical care;  
3. Attending the employee’s routine medical appointment or a routine medical appointment 
for the employee’s child, spouse, parent, or parent of spouse; 
===PAGE 10===
 
10 
 
4. If an employee becomes a parent with or without giving birth (e.g. because the employee’s 
spouse gives birth to a baby, or the employee adopts a child). Employees may access up to 8 
weeks (40 days) of sick leave.  All other available accrued time such as vacation and personal 
time, must be exhausted first however, employees are able to retain up to one week of 
vacation/personal time for use during the fiscal year. 
 
with such amendment to be effective as of July 1, 2024; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by Personnel Committee)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0-1        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Deferred 
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town 
Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.  
(Submitted by the Town Manager) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town 
Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2025; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Sewer Commission) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $35,000 into the Sewer 
Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Commission) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2025; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
===PAGE 11===
 
11 
 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2025; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the FY 2025 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating 
and capital budgets; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the PAC Committee) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of 
Cemetery Lots account to be used for the care, improvement, and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries; 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the vote of Article 33 of the May 6, 2006 Annual 
Town Meeting to decrease the age of the exemption as allowed by M.G.L. c. 59, § 5 (41C), from 70 to 65, 
to amend the reimbursement amount up to 100 percent of the exemption, and further to adjust the income 
and asset limits according to the statute; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board 
of Assessors) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to re-adopt and accept the provisions of Section 20 of 
Chapter 32B of the Massachusetts General Laws, as amended by Section 15 of Chapter 218 of the Acts of 
2016, establishing an Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) Liability Trust Fund; to authorize the 
Select Board and Treasurer to execute a declaration of trust creating an expendable trust for the purpose 
of holding monies appropriated to such fund; to designate the Treasurer as the trustee of such trust; to 
authorize the transfer of any and all monies currently held for the purpose of paying retiree health and life 
benefits to such trust; and to authorize the trustee to invest and reinvest the monies in such fund 
accordance with the Prudent Investor Rule established under Chapter 203C of the Massachusetts General 
Laws; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 23.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, entitled 
“Boards, Commissions and Committees,” by adding a new Article IV thereto, thus codifying the affirmed 
===PAGE 12===
 
12 
 
votes of the May 1979 Annual Town Meeting  (Articles 21 and 22) and the May 2008 Annual Town 
Meeting (Article 18), as follows: 
 
Article IV  Historical Commission 
§ 12-7  Establishment, membership, terms and transition. 
There has been established, and its existence hereby acknowledged and ratified, an Historical 
Commission, pursuant to and under the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section 
8D.  The Historical Commission shall be composed of five (5) members appointed by the Select Board 
for terms of three years each with said terms staggered so that as nearly an equal number of members 
shall be appointed each year.  
 
§ 12-8  Powers and duties. 
The Historical Commission shall exist for the purposes and with the rights and duties provided by 
law.  The local Historical Commission is the agency responsible for identifying and recording the historic 
assets of its community and for developing and implementing a program for their preservation.  The 
Historical Commission cooperates with other municipal agencies such as the Planning Board and 
Conservation Commission to ensure that the goals of historic preservation are considered in planning the 
future development of the community.  The Historical Commission also coordinates the activities of local 
groups with interests involving history or historic preservation, such as local historical societies and 
private preservation organizations, serving as a liaison between these groups and the state and federal 
agencies and preservations organizations. 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-1 
 
ARTICLE 24.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify: (i) §250-4.1G, 
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Use Table,” by inserting a new use entitled “Battery 
Energy Storage Systems” and by noting the manner in which it is permitted or prohibited in the various 
zoning districts, as detailed below; and (ii) §250-4.13, which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled 
“Solar energy systems,” by inserting a Subsection F entitled “Battery Energy Storage Systems” to 
reasonably regulate the installation of Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of a Solar Generating 
Facility and as a Standalone use, as detailed below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Planning Board) 
 
A. Proposed changes to §250-4.1G “Use Table” 
 
(a) Insert “Small Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems” into the Use Table and note that the 
use is permitted in all zoning districts. 
 
(b) Insert “Accessory Battery Energy Storage Systems” into the Use Table and note that the use is 
permitted in all zoning districts as an accessory use. 
 
(c) Insert “Medium-Scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems” and “Large-Scale Standalone 
Battery Energy Storage Systems” into the Use Table and note that the uses are permitted as 
follows: 
 
(1) by right or by Site Plan Approval in the Solar Overlay District as provided. 
(2) by Site Plan Approval in the Commercial District and the Office Park/Industrial District. 
===PAGE 13===
 
13 
 
(3) by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the RA, RB, O, LB/R, R, VCD, SS, and W 
districts. 
 
(d) Insert a footnote applicable to “Small Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems”, “Accessory 
Battery Energy Storage Systems”, “Medium-Scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems”, 
and “Large-Scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems” indicating the uses are permitted 
as provided in §250-4.13F. 
 
B. Proposed §250-4.13F 
 
(1) Purpose 
The purpose of this subsection is to reasonably regulate the development and operation of Battery 
Energy Storage Systems (BESS) by providing standards for the placement, design, construction, 
operation, monitoring, modification, and removal of such systems that address public safety, 
minimize impacts on scenic, natural, and historic resources and to provide adequate financial 
assurance for the decommissioning of such systems in a manner which fulfills the following 
objectives: 
 
(a) To designate properties suitable for the location, construction and operation of BESS; 
(b) To ensure compatible land uses in the vicinity of the areas affected by BESS; 
(c) To mitigate the impacts of BESS on environmental resources, other protected resources, and 
private property; and 
(d) To create synergy between BESS development and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Act 
to Advance Clean Energy that established the Clean Peak Standard Energy Storage System. 
 
(2) Applicability 
Provisions of this subsection §250-4.13F shall apply as follows: 
 
(a) To all Battery Energy Storage Systems as defined herein, which are permitted, installed, or 
modified in the Town of Lunenburg excluding general maintenance and repair. 
(b) To modifications, retrofits or replacements of an existing BESS that increase the total battery 
energy storage. 
(c) Except as an accessory to an approved solar generating facility, BESS facilities shall not be 
constructed or installed prior to the effective date of this by-law. 
 
(3) Definitions: 
The definitions below are specific to the requirements of this subsection §250-4.13F and are 
intended to supplement the standard definitions of the Zoning Bylaws, Article II (§250-2.1). 
 
(a) Battery Energy Storage Management System: A system that protects energy storage systems 
from operating outside their safe operating parameters and disconnects electrical power to the 
energy storage system or places it in a safe condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or 
other conditions are detected. 
(b) Battery Energy Storage System: One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing 
energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time to the local power loads, to the 
utility grid, or for grid support. For the purposes of this definition, a BESS shall not be 
considered a Public Utility and Facility. 
===PAGE 14===
 
14 
 
(c) Battery Energy Storage System, Accessory: A Battery Energy Storage System installed and 
operated to support an on-site Solar Generating Facility. This would include a Solar Parking 
Canopy as defined in §250-4.5A and §250-4.6A. 
(d) Battery Energy Storage System, Standalone: A system that is capable of absorbing energy 
from the electric grid, storing it for a period of time and thereafter distributing electricity. 
(e) Battery Energy Storage System, Small scale: A system which serves 
[1] a residential, commercial, industrial, or institutional development or 
[2] a parking facility which is not a solar generating facility but has one or more Electric 
Vehicle Charging stations and the BESS is primarily associated with the Electric V ehicle 
Charing station functions. 
(f) Battery Energy Storage System, Medium scale: A pad site or sites no more than 10,000 
square feet on a single parcel of land. 
(g) Battery Energy Storage System, Large scale: Pad site(s) larger than 10,000 square feet on a 
single parcel of land. 
(h) Pad compound: The enclosure (including the fence) in which one or more pads are installed 
upon which standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems are installed. 
(i) Pad site: Locations within a pad compound on which Battery Energy Storage Systems 
equipment are positioned. 
(j) Site Safety Plan: A plan which demonstrates the safe development, operation, and access 
to/from the facility taking into consideration such factors as, but not limited to, means of 
access, roadway conditions, proximity to residential and other populated structures, 
hazardous materials, and monitoring protocols, etc. 
(k) Site Security Plan: A plan which details how the BESS will be secured from unauthorized 
entry and details the method of monitoring of entry. 
 
(4) Permitted Locations 
 
(a) Small BESS facilities may be located as part of the residential, commercial, industrial, or 
institutional development or parking facility it is serving provided it is included on the site 
plan or permit application approved by the Town of Lunenburg for such facility. 
 
(b) Accessory Battery Energy Storage Systems may be located as a part of any large-scale solar 
energy generating facility permitted and developed in accordance with Section 250-4.13 of 
the Zoning Bylaw, provided the BESS is depicted on the plans for which the solar energy 
generating facility is permitted. 
 
(c) Medium- or Large-scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems may be allowed by right 
within the Solar Overlay District provided they are to be located on parcels meeting the 
following minimum parcel sizes and spacing: 
 
[1] Medium-scale Standalone BESS installation: 6 acres and no less than 200 feet from 
residentially developed property. 
[2] Large-scale Standalone BESS installation: 20 acres and no less than 200 feet from 
residentially developed property. 
 
(d) Medium- or Large-scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems may be permitted to be 
located within the Solar Overlay District by Site Plan Approval in accordance with section 
===PAGE 15===
 
15 
 
250-8.4 of the Zoning Bylaw where the site does not conform to the size or spacing 
restrictions in Section 250-4.13F(4)(c) above. 
 
(e) Medium- or Large-scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems may be allowed 
following Zoning Districts only upon Site Plan Approval granted by the Planning Board: 
 
[1] Commercial District 
[2] Office Park/Industrial District 
 
(f) Special Permit Required. Outside of the Solar Overlay District, Commercial District, and 
Office Park/Industrial District, medium- and large-scale Standalone Battery Storage Systems 
may be located on any lot containing more than 20 acres by special permit issued by the 
Planning Board. 
 
(5) Project Approval Criteria – Medium- and Large-Scale Standalone BESS projects 
 
(a) Standards – Site Plan Approval. In granting the Site Plan Approval, the Planning Board shall 
find that the permit may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and 
without nullifying or substantially derogating from the intent and purpose of this bylaw, and 
shall find that: 
 
[1] The project conforms to the standards for Site Plan Approval set forth in § 250-8.4E. 
[2] The granting of Site Plan Approval will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, 
sunlight, and other amenities. 
[3] There will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians. 
[4] Environmental features of the site are protected, and surface runoff will not cause 
damage to surrounding properties or increase soil erosion and sedimentation of 
nearby streams and ponds. 
 
(b) Standards – Special Permit. In granting the Special Permit, the Planning Board shall find that 
the permit may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without 
nullifying or substantially derogating from the intent and purpose of this bylaw, and shall find 
that: 
 
[1] The project conforms to the standards for Site Plan Approval set forth in § 250-8.4E. 
[2] The specific site is an appropriate location for such an installation. 
[3] The proposed installation will not adversely affect the existing neighborhood by the 
following: 
[a] Historical significance, 
[b] Scenic vistas, 
[c] Natural and rural character, or 
[d] Public safety. 
[4] The granting of the Special Permit will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, 
sunlight, and other amenities. 
[5] There will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians. 
[6] Environmental features of the site are protected, and surface runoff will not cause 
damage to surrounding properties or increase soil erosion and sedimentation of 
===PAGE 16===
 
16 
 
nearby streams and ponds. 
 
(c) The Planning Board may also impose conditions as it finds reasonably appropriate to 
safeguard the town or neighborhood including, but not limited to, screening, lighting, noise, 
fences, modification of the exterior appearance of electrical cabinets, battery storage systems, 
or other structures, limitation upon system size, and means of vehicular access or traffic 
features. 
 
(6) General Requirements – All BESS facilities 
 
(a) Building and Electrical Permits. Unless the Building Commissioner determines otherwise, a 
building permit and electrical permit are required prior to installation of the BESS facility. 
 
(b) Dimensional requirements. For purposes of dimensional requirements, facilities containing 
BESS equipment shall be treated as a building and subject to the more stringent requirements 
of the Zoning District in which it is located or this Section 250-4.13(F). 
 
(7) General Requirements – Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS facilities 
 
(a) Containment. In the event an Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS facility failure may 
result in dispersal of chemicals, liquids, etc. which could be hazardous to the environment – 
particularly the ground water supply, BESS equipment storage/operations facilities shall be 
constructed with a means of properly containing such unplanned dispersals. Any such 
containment shall be provided, sized, and constructed as deemed appropriate and necessary 
by the Lunenburg Fire Chief or their designee. 
 
[1] If the Fire Chief or their designee determines that the facility does not require a 
containment structure, they shall state such in their Letter of Review of the Site Safety Plan 
which is to be included the proponent’s application to the Planning Board (Section 250-
4.13F(13). 
 
(b) Security. A site security plan detailing all security measures and providing for an active 
security system monitored 24 hours per day shall be developed for each proposed Accessory, 
Medium- and Large-Scale BESS. Pursuant to 250-4.13F(15), this plan shall be submitted to 
and approved by the Lunenburg Police Chief prior to submission of an application for project 
approval to the Planning Board. A copy of the Police Chief’s letter of approval must be 
included in the proponent’s application. 
 
(c) Inspection. All medium and large-scale BESS facilities shall be open to inspection by the Fire 
Department, Police Department, and Building Commissioner during regular business hours 
with 24 hours' notice of request for such inspection to be made by the Town department or 
official. A property contact shall be available to such Town department or official 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week. 
 
(d) Maintenance and Operations 
===PAGE 17===
 
17 
 
[1] The owner/operator shall be responsible for maintenance of the facility including but not 
limited to the site, access, stormwater management system, structures, and security system. 
The owner/operator shall be solely responsible for the cost of maintaining the installation. 
[2] The applicant shall submit, as part of an application for Site Plan Approval and Special 
Permit for an Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS, a maintenance and operations 
plan. 
 
(e) Hazardous Materials 
 
[1] Hazardous materials that are stored, used or generated on site shall not exceed the amount 
for a "Very Small Quantity Generator of Hazardous Waste" as defined by the Department of 
Environmental Protection (DEP) pursuant to 310 CMR 30.000 and shall meet all 
requirements of the DEP and Massachusetts Contingency Plan, including storage of 
hazardous materials in a building with an impervious floor that is not adjacent to any floor 
drains to prevent discharge to the outdoor environment. 
 
[A] If hazardous materials are utilized within the energy storage equipment, then 
impervious containment areas capable of controlling any release to the environment and 
to prevent potential contamination of groundwater are required. 
 
(f) Safety Standards 
 
[1] At a minimum, all Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS installations including 
equipment shall comply with the following: 
 
[a] NFPA-855 
[b] UL9540 
[c] UL9540A 
[d] UL1973 
[e] 527 CMR 1 (Massachusetts Fire Code) 
 
(8) Design Standards – Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS  
 
(a) The design standards specified below shall be applicable to all Accessory, Medium-scale, and 
Large-scale BESS projects. 
 
[1] Lighting and security. Lighting of applicable BESS facilities shall be sufficient for 
security and safe operational purposes and consistent with local, state and federal law. 
Lighting shall be reasonably shielded from abutting properties. Where feasible, any required 
lighting shall be directed downward and shall incorporate full-cut-off fixtures to reduce light 
pollution. Surveillance and security cameras shall be shielded from viewing abutting private 
property or invading the privacy of any abutting residential property owner. 
 
[2] Signage. Signage shall be consistent with local, state, and federal law. Signs shall be 
located and sized compliant with § 250-6.5 of the Zoning Bylaw and shall not be used for 
displaying any advertising except to identify the owner and/or operator of the solar 
installation and a twenty-four-hour emergency contact telephone number. 
===PAGE 18===
 
18 
 
 
[3] Vegetation and Land clearing. Clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to what is 
necessary for construction, operation, and maintenance of the installation. Any land 
disturbance, including earth removal of land cleared greater than one acre is subject to § 204-
1 of the Code of Lunenburg regarding stormwater management and as otherwise prescribed 
by applicable laws, regulations, and bylaws. In approving an applicable BESS project, the 
Planning Board may require clearing of combustible materials within proximity to the 
proposed BESS equipment facilities if advised that such clearance is warranted by the 
Lunenburg Fire Department. 
 
[4] Safety, emergency service and environmental standards. Design of the layout of the 
BESS facility shall be consistent with the  
 
[a]Site Safety Plan approved by the Lunenburg Fire Chief 
[b]Emergency Response Plan approved by the Lunenburg Fire Chief and Police 
Chief 
[c]Site Security Plan approved by the Lunenburg Police Chief. 
 
[5] Visual impact. Any applicable BESS installation shall be designed to minimize visual 
impacts, particularly as viewed from public roadways, and adjoining or nearby residential 
properties. Examples of methods of minimizing such impacts include preserving natural 
vegetation to the maximum extent possible, using architectural features, blending in 
equipment with the surroundings, incorporating earth berms, and adding vegetative buffers to 
screen abutting residential properties, whether developed or not. Siting of installations shall 
be such that the view of the installation from other areas of Town shall be as minimal as 
possible. Buffer strips shall surround the proposed project. 
 
[a] A screening plan, which assures the facility is shielded to greatest extent possible 
from public view, should be included in the submission for Site Plan Approval or 
Special Permit whichever is required. 
[b] The Planning Board may require development of a screening plan with specified 
features prior to acting upon an application for Site Plan Approval or Special Permit. 
 
[6] Buffer strips in all districts. All applicable accessory, medium-scale, and large-scale 
BESS installations shall be surrounded by a buffer strip. 
 
[a] If it abuts a residential use or a Residential or Recreation District, the buffer strip 
shall be at least 200 feet deep. 
[b] If it does not abut a residential use or a Residential or Recreation District, the 
buffer strip shall only be required to 50 feet deep. 
[c] The buffer strip shall be measured along the entirety of the common property 
lines. 
[d] However, if the applicant can demonstrate to the Planning Board’s satisfaction 
that adequate buffering can be provided in a narrower buffer strip, the Planning 
Board may waive the aforementioned depths and approve a narrower buffer strip, 
 
===PAGE 19===
 
19 
 
[7] Height. The height of any structure (includes elements containing equipment) associated 
with an installation shall not exceed 20 feet. 
 
[8] Roads/Access. 
 
[a] Sufficient access for operation, maintenance, and emergency response must be 
provided and maintained to each of the equipment structures included with each 
installation. 
[b] All access roads and interior roads shall be constructed to minimize grading, 
removal of stone walls or trees and to minimize impacts to environmental or historic 
resources. 
[c] Spacing between equipment containers or structures shall be in accordance with 
applicable Fire Codes and addressed as part of the Site Safety Plan review by the 
Lunenburg Fire Chief and during the Site Plan Approval process. 
 
[9] Hazardous materials. Storage of hazardous materials, if any, must be consistent with 250-
4.13F(7)(e) herein. 
 
[10] Noise. Noise generated by an Accessory, Medium-scale, or large-scale BESS 
installation, and by any associated equipment and machinery, shall conform to applicable 
state and local noise regulations, including the Department of Environmental Protection's 
Division of Air Quality noise regulations, 310 CMR 7.10. 
 
[a] The site shall not produce any other vibration, harmonics, or interference which 
would be perceived or impact the normal function of electronics off site. 
[b] As general rule, noise levels measured greater than 60dBA as measured at any 
property line upon which residential buildings are located shall be deemed to be 
excessive and the operator/owner of the installation shall take efforts to reduce noise 
to levels not greater than 60dBA. 
 
[11]  Utility Lines. Reasonable efforts should be made to place all utility connections 
underground, depending on appropriate soil conditions, shape and topography of the site. 
 
[12] Fencing Requirements. All mechanical equipment shall be within an enclosed 
structure which shall be shielded by a 7-foot-high fence. 
 
(b) Waiver. The Planning Board may waive one or more of these requirements in its sole 
discretion under appropriate circumstances based on input from the Lunenburg Fire 
Department, Police Department, Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, and a 
determination by the Planning Board that granting of the waiver will be consistent with the 
purpose of the Zoning Bylaw. 
 
(9) Required Application Documents. 
 
(a) In addition to the documents required for Site Plan Approval under the Planning Board’s rules 
and regulations, the following will be required for applications for Site Plan Approval/Special 
Permit for a medium-scale or large-scale BESS installation: 
===PAGE 20===
 
20 
 
 
[1] Requirements set forth for project in section 250-4.13D(8) of the Zoning Bylaw 
[2] A copy of the letters from the Fire Chief and Police Chief regarding review and approval 
of the Site Safety Plan, Site Security Plan, and Emergency Response Plan. 
[3] Documentation that the proposed installation will conform to the Requirements and 
Design Standards of this section 250-4.13F. 
 
(b) Waiver. The Planning Board may waive one or more of these requirements in its sole 
discretion under appropriate circumstances. 
 
(10) Modifications. All modification requests for an accessory, medium-scale, or large-scale 
BESS installation, made after issuance of the required building permit shall require review 
through Site Plan Review in accordance with Section 250-8.4 of this Zoning Bylaw. 
 
 
(11) Ownership/Operator Changes. 
 
(a) Prior to a change in ownership/operator of the Accessory, Medium-Scale, and Large-Scale 
BESS facility taking effect, the existing owner/operator shall notify the Zoning Enforcement 
Officer in writing of such pending change in Owner and/or Operator. 
(b) The existing owner/operator and the proposed owner/operator shall submit the notification of 
the pending changes and the proposed owner/operator shall certify that they are aware of and 
agree to adhere to the conditions of the Site Plan Approval and/or Special Permit and agree to 
adhere to said conditions and provide a new surety in accordance with the Board’s approval. 
(c) Failure of the owner/operator to make the required notification shall mean that the Site Plan 
Approval and/or Special Permit will be void. Reinstatement of said Site Plan 
Approval/Special Permit shall follow the same process as a new Site Plan Approval/Special 
Permit application. 
 
(12) Abandonment, removal, and site restoration – Accessory, Medium-Scale, and Large-Scale 
BESS 
 
(a) Absent notice of the proposed date of decommissioning or written notice of extenuating 
circumstances, the Battery Energy Storage System shall be considered abandoned when it 
fails to operate for more than one year without the written consent of the Planning Board. 
 
(b) The owner or operator shall physically remove the installation and stabilize/restore the site to 
the condition specified in the “restoration plan” approved by the Planning Board when the 
Planning Board approved the subject facility. This restoration plan shall be implemented no 
more than 150 days after the date of abandonment or the proposed date of decommissioning 
operations, unless the Planning Board grants a waiver of this time requirement. 
 
(c) The owner or operator shall notify the Planning Board by certified mail of the proposed date 
of discontinued operations and plans for removal and restoration. The notification shall 
consist of the methodology of physical removal of all structures, equipment, security barriers 
and transmission lines (located on the project site as part of the project operations), disposal 
of all solid and hazardous waste and stabilization or revegetation of the site. 
===PAGE 21===
 
21 
 
[1] The Planning Board shall either approve or reject the plan at their next meeting. 
[2] If the Planning Board rejects the plan, they shall do so only upon a finding that the plan 
fails to reasonably remove the facility and restore the site to a condition usable for purposes 
allowed within the zoning district in which the site is situated and shall state clear reasons for 
such rejection. 
 
(d) Landscaping, etc. may be left upon approval of the Planning Board. 
 
(e) If the owner or operator fails to remove the installation in accordance with the above criteria, 
the Town may, after the receipt of an appropriate court order or consent of the property 
owner, enter the property and physically remove the installation at the owner's expense. 
 
(f) As a condition of a project permit, the project operator and property owner shall agree to 
allow the Town entry to remove an abandoned or decommissioned installation in the event it 
is not removed pursuant to notice given by the Town. 
 
(g) The cost for the removal will be charged to the property owner in accordance with the 
provisions of MGL c. 139, § 3A as a tax lien on the property. 
 
(13) Financial surety.  
 
(a) Proponents of medium and large-scale BESS projects shall provide a form of surety in a form 
acceptable to the Town (generally, either through an escrow account, bond or similar 
method), to cover the cost of removal and site restoration in the event the Town must remove 
the installation and remediate the landscape, in an amount and form determined to be 
reasonable by the Planning Board, but in no event to exceed more than 125% of the cost of 
removal and compliance with the additional requirements set forth herein. 
[1]  The project proponent shall submit a fully inclusive estimate of the costs 
associated with removal and site restoration, prepared by a qualified engineer.  
[2] The Town’s consulting engineer on the project review shall review and confirm 
or modify the estimated costs and submit a recommendation to the Planning Board. 
[3] The surety shall include a mechanism for calculating increased 
removal/restoration cost due to inflation. 
[4] Site restoration shall be for the purpose of restoring the site to a condition which 
allows reuse of the site for a purpose permitted by right within the zoning district in 
which the site is located. 
 
(14) Site Safety Plan. A site safety plan for an accessory, medium-, or large-scale BESS 
facility shall be developed and submitted to the Fire Chief for approval prior to submission of an 
application for Planning Board consideration. As part of the application to the Planning Board, 
the applicant shall provide a letter from the Fire Chief or his authorized representative approving 
the Site Safety Plan. Any changes/revisions to the Site Safety Plan shall be approved by the Fire 
Chief prior to implementation. 
 
(a) As part of the site safety plan submission to the Lunenburg Fire Department, the proponent 
shall provide: 
[1] the proposed equipment’s UL 9540A certification documentation. 
===PAGE 22===
 
22 
 
[2] Sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with NFPA 855 and UL 9540 
 
(15) Emergency Response Plan 
 
(a) Prior to submission of an application for an accessory, medium-, or large-scale BESS facility, 
all proponents for installation of a BESS facility shall 
 
[1] Meet with the Lunenburg Fire Department and the Lunenburg Police Department to 
discuss and identify emergency plans/contingency plans for the site; 
[2] Submit an Emergency Response Plan to the Lunenburg Fire Chief and Lunenburg Police 
Chief for approval. 
 
(b) As part of the application to the Planning Board, the applicant shall provide a letter from the 
Fire Chief and Police Chief or their authorized representatives approving the Emergency 
Response Plan. 
 
(c) Any changes/revisions to the Emergency Response Plan shall be approved by the Fire Chief 
and Police Chief prior to implementation. 
 
(16) Site Security Plan. A Site Security Plan for an accessory, medium-, or large-scale BESS 
facility shall be developed and submitted to the Lunenburg Police Department through the Police 
Chief (or their authorized representative) for approval prior to submission of an application for 
Planning Board consideration. 
 
(a) The plan shall be in conformance with the requirements of the Lunenburg Police Department, 
to demonstrate that there is no undue burden on Town public safety officials as a result of the 
proposed business. 
 
(b) The security plan shall include the details of all security measures for the site to ensure the 
safety of employees and the public and to protect the premises property from theft or other 
criminal activity. 
 
(c) As part of the application to the Planning Board, the applicant shall provide a letter from the 
Police Chief or his authorized representative approving the Site Security Plan. Any 
changes/revisions to the Site Security Plan shall be approved by the Police Chief prior to 
implementation. 
 
(17) Training 
 
(a) All developers/operators of Accessory, Medium, and Large-scale BESS facilities shall 
provide, at their expense, the Town of Lunenburg emergency response agencies with one 
training session regarding the Emergency Response Plan and appropriate procedures 
associated with the facility at a date and time to agreed to by the Lunenburg Fire Chief in 
consultation with other appropriate emergency responding agencies. 
 
(b) If the Accessory, Medium, or Large-scale BESS facility is altered due to new technology 
which results in changes to the Emergency Response Plan and appropriate procedures, the 
===PAGE 23===
 
23 
 
operator of the facility shall conduct a new training session regarding the Emergency 
Response Plan and appropriate procedures associated with the facility, if requested by the 
Lunenburg Fire Chief, at a date and time agreed to by the Lunenburg Fire Chief in 
consultation with other appropriate emergency responding agencies. 
 
(18) Waiver. The Planning Board may waive one or more of the dimensional requirements 
specified under §250-4.13F(4)(c), §250-4.13F(6)(b), and §250-4.13F(8) in its sole discretion 
under appropriate circumstances based on input from the Lunenburg Fire Department, Police 
Department, Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, and a determination by the 
Planning Board that granting of the waiver will be consistent with the purpose of the Zoning 
Bylaw. 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Deferred  
 
ARTICLE 25. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to delete §250-4.9 Water 
Supply Protection District as written and replace by inserting §250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District 
as written below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) 
 
250-4.9 WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT 
 
A. PURPOSE OF DISTRICT 
The purpose of this Water Supply Protection District is to: 
(1). promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community by 
ensuring an adequate quality and quantity of drinking water for the 
Town of Lunenburg; 
(2). preserve and protect existing and potential sources of drinking water; 
(3). conserve natural resources in the Town of Lunenburg; and 
(4). prevent temporary and permanent contamination of the environment. 
 
 
B. SCOPE OF AUTHORITY 
(1). The Water Supply Protection District is an overlay district superimposed on 
the zoning districts. This overlay district shall apply to all new construction, 
reconstruction, or expansion of existing buildings and new or expanded uses. 
Applicable activities and uses in a portion of one of the underlying zoning 
districts that fall within the Water Supply Protection District must additionally 
comply with the requirements of this bylaw. Uses prohibited in the underlying 
zoning districts shall not be permitted in the Water Supply Protection District. 
(2). Nothing in 250-4.9 imposes regulation on parcels or portions of parcels located 
within Zone I. 
 
C. DEFINITIONS 
Automobile Graveyard: An establishment that is maintained, used, or operated for storing, 
keeping, buying, or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or motor vehicle parts as defined in 
===PAGE 24===
 
24 
 
MGL c.140B, s.1. 
 
Aquifer: A geologic formation composed of rock, sand or gravel that contains significant 
amounts of potentially recoverable water. 
 
CMR: Code of Massachusetts Regulations. 
 
Commercial Fertilizer: Any substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients 
which is used for its plant nutrient content and which is designed for use, or claimed to have 
value in promoting plant growth, except un-manipulated animal and vegetable manures, marl, 
lime, limestone, wood ashes, and gypsum, and other products exempted by state regulations. 
 
Discharge: The accidental or intentional disposal, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, 
leaking, pouring, or placing of toxic or hazardous material or hazardous waste upon or into 
any land or water such that it may enter the surface or ground waters. 
 
Dry Well: A subsurface pit with open-jointed lining or holes through which storm- water drainage 
from roofs, basement floors, foundations or other areas seep into the surrounding soil. 
 
Water Supply Protection District: The land area consisting of aquifers, Zone II recharge 
areas, and Zone III areas, all ass approved by MassDEP and identified on a map and adopted 
pursuant to this bylaw. 
 
Hazardous Material: Any substance in any form which because of its quantity, concentration, 
or its chemical, corrosive, flammable, reactive, toxic, infectious or radioactive characteristics, 
either separately or in combination with one or more substances, constitutes a present or 
potential threat to human health, safety, welfare, or to the environment, when improperly 
stored, treated, transported, disposed of, used, or otherwise managed. Hazardous material 
includes, without limitation, synthetic organic chemicals, petroleum products, heavy metals, 
radioactive or infectious materials, and all substances defined as toxic or hazardous under 
MGL c. 21E. This term shall not include hazardous waste or oil. 
 
Historical High Groundwater Table Elevation: A groundwater elevation determined from 
monitoring wells and historical water table fluctuation data compiled by the United States 
Geological Survey. 
 
Hazardous Waste: A substance or combination of substances, which because of quantity, 
concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly 
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating 
reversible illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, or 
welfare or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, used or disposed 
of, or otherwise managed. 
This term shall include all substances identified as hazardous pursuant to the Hazardous 
Waste Regulations, 310 CMR 30.000. 
 
Impervious Surface: Material or structure on, above, or below the ground that does not allow 
precipitation or surface water runoff to penetrate into the soil. 
 
Interim Wellhead Protection Area (IWPA): The MassDEP designated protection radius around 
===PAGE 25===
 
25 
 
a public water well that lacks a Zone II. 
 
Junkyard: An establishment that is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, 
or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, as defined in 
MGL c.140B, s.1. 
 
Landfill: A facility established in accordance with a valid site assignment for the purposes of 
disposing solid waste into or on the land, pursuant to the Solid Waste Regulations, 310 CMR 
19.006. 
 
MassDEP: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. MGL: Massachusetts General Law. 
 
Petroleum Product: Includes, but not limited to, fuel oil; gasoline; diesel; kerosene; aviation jet 
fuel; aviation gasoline; lubricating oils; oily sludge; oil refuse; oil mixed with other wastes; 
crude oils; or other liquid hydrocarbons regardless of specific gravity. Petroleum product shall 
not include liquefied petroleum gas including, but not limited to, liquefied natural gas, propane 
or butane. 
 
Non-Sanitary Wastewater: Wastewater discharges from industrial and commercial facilities 
containing wastes from any activity other than collection of sanitary sewage including, but not 
limited to, activities specified in 310 CMR 15.004(6). 
 
Open Dump: A facility operated or maintained in violation of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act 42 U.S.C. 4004(a)(b), or state regulations and criteria for solid waste disposal. 
 
Recharge Areas: Land areas, such as a Zone II or an Interim Wellhead Protection Area, where 
precipitation and surface water infiltrates into the ground to replenish groundwater and 
aquifers used for public drinking water supplies. 
 
Septage: The liquid, solid, and semi -solid contents of privies, chemical toilets, cesspools,  
holding tanks, or other sewage waste receptacles. This term shall not include any material that 
is a hazardous waste, as defined by 310 CMR 30.000. 
Sludge: The solid, semi -solid, and liquid residue that results from a process of wastewater 
treatment or drinking  water treatment including wastewater residuals. This term shall not 
include grit, screening, or grease and oil which are removed at the headworks of a facility 
 
Treatment Works: Any and all devices, processes and properties, real or personal, used in the 
collection, pumping, transmission, storage, treatment, disposal, recycling, reclamation, or 
reuse of waterborne pollutants, but not including any works receiving a hazardous waste from 
off the site of the works for the purpose of treatment, storage, or disposal. 
 
Utility Works: Regulated activities providing for public services, including roads, water, 
sewer, electricity, gas, telephone, transportation and their associated maintenance activities. 
This term shall include the installation of detention and retention basins for the purpose of 
controlling storm water. 
 
Very Small Quantity Generator: Any public or private entity, other than residential, which 
produces less than 27 gallons (100 kilograms) a month of hazardous waste or waste oil, but not 
including any acutely hazardous waste as defined in 310 CMR 30.136. 
 
===PAGE 26===
 
26 
 
Waste Oil Retention Facility: A waste oil collection facility for automobile service stations, 
retail outlets, and marinas which is sheltered and has adequate protection to contain a spill, 
seepage, or discharge of petroleum waste products in accordance with MGL c.21. s.52A.  
 
Zone I: A protective radius around a public water supply well or wellfield as approved by 
MassDEP and defined under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. 
No parcels or portions of parcels within Zone I shall be subject to any regulations imposed by 
250-4.9. 
 
Zone II: The delineated recharge area to a public drinking water well as approved by 
MassDEP and defined under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. 
For the purposes of this § 250-4.9, Zone II shall not extend within that area included in Zone I. 
Accordingly, no parcels or portions of parcels located within Zone I are considered to be 
included within Zone II.  
 
Zone III: An area beyond a Zone II recharge area, as approved by MassDEP and defined 
under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. 
 
D. ESTABLISHMENT AND DELINEATION OF WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION 
DISTRICT 
For the purposes of this bylaw, there are hereby established within the Town of Lunenburg 
certain water supply protection areas a Zone I, Zone II, and Zone III which consist of a protective 
radius around a public water supply well or wellfield (Zone I), aquifers or recharge areas (Zone II), 
and certain protected areas beyond those Zone II areas (Zone III). These areas are delineated on 
a map entitled Lunenburg Water District Aquifer Protection Zones dated July 2021 which is 
hereby made part of the Water Supply Protection District Bylaw and is on file in the office of 
the Town Clerk. 
 
E. DISTRICT BOUNDARY DISPUTES 
(1). If the location of the Water Supply Protection District in relation to a particular 
parcel is in doubt, resolution of the boundary dispute shall be through a Special 
Permit application to the Special Permit Granting Authority. Any application 
for a special permit for this purpose shall be accompanied by adequate 
documentation. 
(2). Burden of proof shall be upon the landowner to demonstrate that the location 
of the Water Supply Protection District with respect to a particular parcel(s) of 
land is uncertain. At the request of the landowner, the Town may engage a 
professional engineer, hydrologist, geologist, or soil scientist to determine 
more accurately the boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District with 
respect to a particular parcel(s) of land, and may charge the owner for the cost 
of the investigation. 
(a) Changes to the Water Supply Protection District require town meeting 
approval. 
(b) Changes to the Zone II boundary require approval from the MassDEP. 
(3). Where the Zone II boundary line of the Water Supply Protection District 
divides a lot or parcel, the requirements established by this bylaw shall apply 
===PAGE 27===
 
27 
 
to the land 20 feet beyond the Zone II boundary. 
 
 
F. PERMITTED USES 
(1). The following uses are permitted within Zone II and Zone III of the Water 
Supply Protection District, provided that all necessary permits, orders, or 
approvals required by local, state, or federal law are also obtained: 
 
(a) conservation of soil, water, plants, and wildlife; 
(b) outdoor recreation, nature study, boating, fishing, and hunting 
where otherwise legally permitted; 
(c) foot, bicycle and/or horse paths, and bridges; 
(d) normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and 
dams, splash boards, and other water control, supply and 
conservation devices; 
(e)  maintenance, repair, and enlargement of any existing structure, 
subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning 
Bylaw; 
(f)  residential development, subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 
250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw; 
(g)  farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting, and 
grazing, subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this 
Zoning Bylaw; 
(h)  construction, maintenance, repair, and enlargement of drinking 
water supply related facilities such as, but not limited to, wells, 
pipelines, aqueducts, and tunnels; and 
(i)  any use permitted in the underlying zoning by-right or by special 
permit, except for those uses specifically prohibited in § 250-4.9 
G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw. 
(j)  
 
G. PROHIBITED USES 
(1). The following land uses and activities are prohibited in Zone II unless 
designed in accordance with the specified performance standards : 
(a) landfills and open dumps; 
(b) automobile graveyards and junkyards,; 
(c) landfills receiving  only wastewater residuals and/or septage, 
including those approved by MassDEP pursuant to MGL c. 21 s.26 
through s.53, MGL c.111 s.17, and MGL c.83 s.6 and s.7; 
(d) facilities that generate, treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste 
that are subject to MGL c.21C and 310 CMR 30.000, except for: 
[1] very small quantity generators as defined under 310 CMR 30.000; 
[2] household hazardous waste centers and events under 310 CMR 30.390; 
===PAGE 28===
 
28 
 
[3] waste oil retention facilities required by MGL c. 21, s.52A; and 
[4] water remediation treatment works approved by 
MassDEP for the treatment of contaminated waters. 
(e) petroleum, fuel oil, and heating oil bulk stations and terminals including, 
but not limited to, those listed under North American Industry 
Classification System (NAICS) Codes 424710 and 454311, except for 
liquefied petroleum gas. 
(f) storage of liquid hazardous materials and/or liquid petroleum 
products unless such storage is above ground level and on an 
impervious surface and either: 
[1] in container(s) or above ground tank(s) within a building; or 
[2] outdoors in covered container(s) or above ground tank(s) 
in an area that has a containment system designed and 
operated to hold either; 10% of the total possible storage 
capacity of all containers or 110% of the largest container’s 
storage capacity, whichever is greater. 
however, these storage requirements shall not apply to the replacement 
of existing tanks or systems for the keeping, dispensing or storing of 
gasoline provided the replacement is performed in a manner consistent 
with state and local requirements; 
 
(g) storage of sludge and septage, unless such storage is in compliance 
with 310 CMR 32.30 and 310 CMR 32.31; 
(h) storage of deicing chemicals, with the exception of small quantities 
stored in containers and ready for application, unless such storage, is 
within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of 
contaminated runoff or leachate; 
(i) storage of animal manure, with the exception of small quantities stored 
in containers and ready for application, unless contained within a 
structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of contaminated 
runoff or leachate; 
(j) storage of commercial fertilizers, with the exception of small quantities 
stored in containers and ready for application, unless such storage is 
within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of 
contaminated runoff or leachate; 
(k) stockpiling and disposal of snow and ice containing deicing chemicals 
brought in from outside the Water Supply Protection District; 
(l)  earth removal, consisting of the removal of soil, loam, sand, gravel, or 
any other earth material to within 4 feet of historical high groundwater 
as determined from monitoring wells and historical water table 
fluctuation data compiled by the United States Geological Survey, 
except for excavations for building foundations, roads, utility works or 
wetland restoration work conducted in accordance with a valid Order of 
Condition issued pursuant to MGL c. 131, s.40; and 
(m) treatment or disposal works subject to 314 CMR 5.00, for non- 
===PAGE 29===
 
29 
 
sanitary wastewater, including those activities listed under 310 
CMR 15.004(6), except for: 
[1] treatment works approved by MassDEP designed for 
the treatment of contaminated ground or surface water 
and operating in compliance with 314 CMR 5.05(3) 
or 5.05(13); and 
[2] publicly owned treatment works. 
 
H. USES AND ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A SPECIAL PERMIT 
(1). In Zone II the following uses and activities are permitted only upon the 
issuance of a Special Permit by the Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) 
under such conditions as they may require: 
(a) enlargement or alteration of existing uses that do not conform to the 
Water Supply Protection District; 
(b) except as prohibited under § 250-4.9 G of this bylaw, activities that 
involve the handling of toxic or hazardous materials in quantities 
greater than those associated with normal household use and which are 
permitted in the underlying zoning district; 
(c) rendering impervious any lot or parcel more than 15% or 2,500 square 
feet, whichever is greater; unless artificial recharge, that will not 
degrade water quality, is provided using methods demonstrated to be 
capable of removing contaminants from storm water and which are 
consistent with methods described in MassDEP's Stormwater 
Handbook, Vol. I, II and III, as amended. 
 
I. PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMIT 
(1). The Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under this bylaw shall be the 
Planning Board. A special permit shall be granted if the SPGA determines, 
with advisement from the Lunenburg Water District, Building Commissioner, 
Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, and Board of Health, 
that the intent of this bylaw, as well as its specific criteria, are met. The SPGA 
shall not grant a special permit under this section unless the petitioner's 
application materials include, in the SPGA's opinion, sufficiently detailed, 
definite, and credible information to support positive findings in relation to the 
standards given in this section. The SPGA shall document the basis for any 
departures from the recommendations of the other municipal boards, 
departments or commissions in its decision. 
 
(2). Upon receipt of the special permit application, the SPGA shall transmit one 
copy to the Lunenburg Water District, Building Commissioner, Conservation 
Commission, Department of Public Works, Board of Health, and Lunenburg 
Fire Department. Failure to respond in writing within 35 days of receipt shall 
be considered as no desire to comment. The necessary number of copies of the 
application shall be furnished by the applicant. 
 
(3). The SPGA may grant the required special permit upon finding that the 
proposed use meets the following standards, those standards and requirements 
===PAGE 30===
 
30 
 
specified in § 250-4.9 G of this bylaw, and any regulations or guidelines 
adopted by the SPGA. The proposed use must: 
(a) in no way, during construction or thereafter, materially adversely 
affect the quality or quantity of the water supplies protected by the 
Water Supply Protection District; and 
 
(b) be designed to avoid substantial disturbance of the soils, 
topography, drainage, vegetation, and other water-related natural 
characteristics of the site to be developed, except as depicted on an 
approved site plan. 
(4). The SPGA may adopt controls to govern design features of projects. Such 
controls shall be consistent with the Town's subdivision regulations, Site Plan 
Approval, and Stormwater Bylaws. 
(5). The applicant shall file 10 copies of a site plan and attachments. The site plan 
shall be drawn at a proper scale as determined by the SPGA and be stamped by 
a professional engineer. All additional submittals shall be prepared by 
qualified professionals. The site plan and all supporting materials must meet 
the requirements outlined in the Planning Board Rules & Regulations for Site 
Plan Approval and Special Permit and at a minimum include the following 
information where pertinent: 
(a) a complete list of the categories of chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, 
fertilizers, fuels, and other potentially hazardous materials to be used 
or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated 
with normal household use; and 
(b) for activities using or storing hazardous materials or wastes, a 
management plan shall be prepared and filed with the Fire Chief and 
the Board of Health. The plan will be consistent with the standards 
and requirements set forth in § 250-4.9 G above and shall include: 
[1] provisions to protect against the discharge of hazardous 
materials or  wastes to the environment due to spillage, 
accidental damage, corrosion, leakage, or vandalism, including 
spill containment and clean-up procedures; 
[2] provisions for indoor, secured storage of 
hazardous materials or wastes with impervious 
floor surfaces; 
[3] evidence of compliance with the Massachusetts 
Hazardous Waste Regulations 310 CMR 30.000; and 
[4] proposed down-gradient location(s) for groundwater 
monitoring well(s), should the SPGA deem the activity a 
potential groundwater threat. 
 
(6). The SPGA shall hold a hearing, in conformity with the provision of MGL 
c.40A s. 9, within 65 days after the filing of the application. Notice of the 
public hearing shall be given by publication and posting and by first-class 
mailings to "parties of interest" as defined in MGL c.40A s.11. The decision of 
the SPGA and any extension, modification, or renewal thereof shall be filed 
with the SPGA and Town Clerk within 90 days following the closing of the 
===PAGE 31===
 
31 
 
public hearing. Failure of the SPGA to act within 90 days shall be deemed as a 
granting of the permit. 
 
(7). If there are material changes to the categories of potentially hazardous 
materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those 
associated with normal household use after the Special Permit has been 
granted, the owner/operator will file updated information on those categories of 
hazardous materials with the Fire Department, the Board of Health, and the 
Planning Board. 
 
J. USES AND ACTIVITIES PERMITTED BY SITE PLAN REVIEW 
(1). In Zone III, the following uses and activities (these are the same uses and 
activities which are permitted only by Special Permit in Zone II as detailed in 
§ 250-4.9 H) are permitted only upon the issuance of Site Plan Approval by the 
Planning Board under such conditions as they may reasonably require. 
 
(a) enlargement or alteration of existing uses that do not conform to the 
Water Supply Protection District; 
(b) except as prohibited under § 250-4.9 G of this bylaw, activities that 
involve the handling of toxic or hazardous materials in quantities 
greater than those associated with normal household use and which 
are permitted in the underlying zoning district; 
(c) rendering impervious any lot or parcel more than 15% or 2,500 
square feet, whichever is greater; unless artificial recharge, that will 
not degrade water quality, is provided using methods demonstrated 
to be capable of removing contaminants from storm water and which 
are consistent with methods described in MassDEP's Stormwater 
Handbook, Vol. I, II and III, as amended. 
(2). Site Plan Approval will be granted, with the input of the Building 
Commissioner, Board of Health, Conservation Commission, and Department 
of Public Works, and a determination by the Planning Board that the intent of 
the Bylaw, as well as its specific criteria, are met. 
(3). The submitted Site Plan Approval application will comply with the 
requirements of § 250-8.4 of this Bylaw. 
(4). If there are material changes to the categories of potentially hazardous 
materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those 
associated with normal household use after Site Plan Approval is granted, the 
owner/operator will file updated information on those categories of hazardous 
materials with the Fire Department, Board of Health, and the Planning Board. 
 
 
K. ENFORCEMENT 
(1). Written notice of any violations of this bylaw shall be given by the Building 
Commissioner to the responsible person as soon as possible after detection of a 
violation or a continuing violation. Notice to the assessed owner of the 
property shall be deemed notice to the responsible person. Such notice shall 
===PAGE 32===
 
32 
 
specify the requirement or restriction violated and the nature of the violation, 
and may also identify the actions necessary to remove or remedy the violations 
and preventive measures required for avoiding future violations and a schedule 
of compliance. 
(2). A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Land Use Director, Building 
Commissioner, Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, and 
Board of Health. The cost of containment, clean-up, or other action of 
compliance shall be borne by the owner/operator of the premises. 
(3). The Building Commissioner may use any portion of Section 250-8.2 of these 
Zoning Bylaws to assist in the enforcement of the requirements of this Bylaw. 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Deferred  
 
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public 
places in the Town, seven (7) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one of which 
places shall be the Town Hall, one at Baker’s Whalom Variety in the Whalom-Bakerville District, one 
at Powell’s and one at Jaxx Country Variety, and by mailing a copy to each dwelling unit in the Town 
in which a registered voter resides at least seven (7) days prior to such meeting. Hereof, fail not and 
make due return of this Warrant, with your doings thereon, to the Town Clerk at the time and place 
aforesaid. 
 
Given under our hands this 9th day of April in the year Two Thousand and Twenty-Four. 
 
A true copy, Attest:                                                     LUNENBURG SELECT BOARD  _ 
Kathyrn M. Herrick, Town Clerk Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman 
                                                                                     Louis J. Franco, Vice Chairman 
             Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk 
                                                                                     Tom Alonzo, Member 
                                                                                     Renee Emkey, Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 33===
 
33 
 
Article 7: FY 2025 Omnibus Budget 
 
 
FY 2025 Projected Omnibus Budget
 
Line Expended Expended Expended Budgeted Budgeted FY25 TM Rec
No. FY2020 FY2021 FY22 FY23 FY24 Budget
Maturing Debt & Interest
1 Principal-Loans 3,094,944.33$      3,226,042.07$      3,178,668.94$      3,220,578.72$      2,335,199.75$      1,832,252.62$      
2 Interest -Loans 1,523,597.55$      1,460,268.79$      1,376,939.69$      1,272,700.60$      1,169,576.83$      1,101,717.02$      
3 Interest-Temporary Loans 57,794.48$           8,844.48$             3,588.98$             1,824.90$             11,405.65$           5,986.48$             
3A Administrative Fees - Loans 5,335.23$             4,366.12$             3,395.97$             2,619.13$             1,830.58$             1,365.38$             
3B Bond Issuance Costs -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
Total Maturing Debt 4,681,671.59$      4,699,521.46$      4,562,593.58$      4,497,723.35$      3,518,012.81$      2,941,321.50$      
Unclassified   
4 Liability Insurance 188,702.67$         193,224.64$         184,061.00$         225,644.23$         248,986.44$         249,188.81$         
5 Workers Compensation 126,497.00$         115,293.00$         141,492.00$         154,173.60$         161,882.28$         169,976.39$         
6 Group Health Insurance 2,103,153.63$      2,080,164.63$      2,170,118.63$      2,455,674.99$      2,957,469.53$      3,059,912.01$      
7 Group Life Insurance 10,776.25$           10,523.75$           11,539.16$           15,000.00$           15,000.00$           15,000.00$           
8 Physicals 5,245.33$             4,575.00$             4,925.00$             3,500.00$             3,500.00$             3,500.00$             
9 Print Town Reports 10,411.96$           11,634.48$           14,480.69$           12,000.00$           12,000.00$           12,000.00$           
10 Mont Reg Planning Assess 3,529.37$             3,617.60$             3,708.04$             4,158.25$             4,262.20$             4,368.76$             
11 Historical Commission 450.00$                40.00$                  3,000.00$             3,000.00$             3,000.00$             3,000.00$             
12 Band Concerts 4,200.00$             -$                     4,200.00$             6,000.00$             6,000.00$             6,000.00$             
12A Agricultural Commission -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
13 Reserve Fund             16,890.00$           -$                     20,000.00$           75,000.00$           275,000.00$         200,000.00$         
13A Salary Reserve Fund 34,402.04$           48,693.40$           94,000.00$           13,379.78$           106,197.88$         185,000.00$         
14 Unemployment Expense 7,752.00$             5,030.39$             (4,352.00)$           10,000.00$           10,000.00$           10,000.00$           
14A Unemployment Expense - Stab Fund -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
15 Medicare - Town's Share      276,529.29$         291,878.53$         315,513.36$         320,560.00$         341,070.00$         375,177.00$         
Total Gen Gov Unclassified 2,788,539.54$      2,764,675.42$      2,962,685.88$      3,298,090.85$      4,144,368.33$      4,293,122.97$      
General Government
16 Finance Committee Expense 980.07$                380.99$                343.98$                800.00$                1,300.00$             1,800.00$             
17 Annual Town Audit 44,750.00$           41,900.00$           41,900.00$           42,100.00$           44,100.00$           44,100.00$           
18 Charter Review Committee -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
19 Selectmen's Administration 98,756.60$           121,997.37$         132,934.61$         145,003.84$         156,488.18$         152,792.68$         
20 Selectmen Salaries -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
21 Town Manager Salary 132,713.79$         135,675.60$         152,534.54$         157,232.16$         165,043.60$         165,043.60$         
22 Town Manager Expense 4,289.61$             1,760.19$             2,905.66$             16,000.00$           16,000.00$           16,200.00$           
23 Town Accountant 210,550.68$         215,009.99$         229,536.73$         246,124.75$         248,150.00$         260,802.01$         
24 Treasurer's Administration 83,602.74$           88,548.64$           88,373.26$           95,695.50$           111,237.90$         115,793.88$         
25 Banking Charges 30.00$                  -$                     -$                     1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             
26 Tax Collector's Admin 83,080.35$           87,659.26$           101,195.43$         111,055.66$         122,299.62$         126,599.48$         
27 Assessor's Salaries -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
28 Assessor's Administration 190,363.38$         172,520.74$         178,901.61$         240,633.44$         236,950.96$         289,822.16$         
29 Information Technology Dept 211,533.37$         180,982.76$         298,008.91$         316,022.89$         402,881.35$         402,222.25$         
30 Legal Expenses 94,361.05$           99,950.08$           96,410.20$           110,000.00$         110,000.00$         110,000.00$         
31 Town Clerk Salary 50,418.00$           51,678.45$           53,228.80$           54,560.00$           77,500.00$           79,437.50$           
32 Town Clerk's Administration 33,177.91$           39,000.27$           53,930.20$           53,072.72$           57,607.76$           60,959.80$           
33 Elections 15,079.07$           25,870.70$           5,185.96$             16,353.00$           16,735.00$           18,525.00$           
34 Registration & Census 9,587.15$             16,212.88$           12,883.79$           24,450.00$           24,450.00$           25,950.00$           
35 Planning Board 150,963.57$         154,338.95$         155,668.18$         166,871.32$         164,509.80$         162,677.24$         
35A APDC Expenses -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     5,000.00$             5,000.00$             
35B Grant Writing -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     50,000.00$           
36 Zoning Board of Appeals 1,461.10$             2,154.03$             1,194.78$             3,900.00$             3,900.00$             4,500.00$             
37 Conservation Commission 55,119.83$           56,941.71$           63,996.98$           73,621.44$           64,393.71$           84,738.30$           
Total General Government 1,470,818.27$      1,492,582.61$      1,669,133.62$      1,874,496.72$      2,029,547.88$      2,177,963.90$      
===PAGE 34===
 
34 
 
 
FY 2025 Projected Omnibus Budget
 
Line Expended Expended Expended Budgeted Budgeted FY25 TM Rec
No. FY2020 FY2021 FY22 FY23 FY24 Budget
Central Purchasing
38 Central Purchasing 48,926.62$           45,868.43$           62,398.99$           77,800.00$           80,300.00$           80,300.00$           
Total Central Purchasing 48,926.62$           45,868.43$           62,398.99$           77,800.00$           80,300.00$           80,300.00$           
Protection
39 Police Department 1,648,174.04$      1,796,266.73$      1,901,809.69$      2,106,792.23$      2,313,544.21$      2,413,368.85$      
40 Police Lock Up 28,872.06$           26,015.31$           13,844.52$           50,600.00$           25,600.00$           20,600.00$           
41 Injury Leave -$                     9,179.06$             -$                     4,000.00$             4,000.00$             4,000.00$             
42 Police/Fire Medical Expenses 1,617.50$             2,500.00$             1,160.00$             4,000.00$             4,000.00$             4,000.00$             
Subtotal Police 1,678,663.60$      1,833,961.10$      1,916,814.21$      2,165,392.23$      2,347,144.21$      2,441,968.85$      
43 Fire Department 1,086,726.58$      1,165,755.61$      1,325,964.95$      1,520,274.20$      1,585,259.90$      1,621,515.10$      
43A Capital - Fire Dept. 12,258.48$           14,350.32$           25,490.49$           30,000.00$           30,000.00$           30,000.00$           
44 Fire Hydrant Expense 15,121.00$           14,644.00$           13,000.00$           15,194.00$           17,000.00$           17,000.00$           
45 Radio Equipment Mtc. 4,395.01$             2,105.00$             6,192.77$             10,000.00$           10,000.00$           10,000.00$           
Subtotal Fire Dept. 1,118,501.07$      1,196,854.93$      1,370,648.21$      1,575,468.20$      1,642,259.90$      1,678,515.10$      
46 Radio Watch 279,835.00$         304,130.90$         305,162.53$         312,144.71$         312,993.24$         305,313.71$         
Subtotal Radio Watch 279,835.00$         304,130.90$         305,162.53$         312,144.71$         312,993.24$         305,313.71$         
47 Emergency Management 5,000.00$             6,000.00$             5,000.00$             7,000.00$             7,000.00$             7,000.00$             
48 Sealer of Weights & Measures 4,110.00$             4,000.00$             4,736.88$             4,300.00$             4,300.00$             4,300.00$             
49 Wiring Inspector -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
50 Building Inspector 128,696.07$         148,146.55$         154,062.64$         161,942.40$         168,529.03$         161,494.44$         
51 Municipal Hearing Officer -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
53 Animal Control 40,000.00$           40,000.00$           39,997.67$           45,000.00$           49,000.00$           45,125.00$           
Subtotal Other Protection 177,806.07$         198,146.55$         203,797.19$         218,242.40$         228,829.03$         217,919.44$         
Total Protection 3,254,805.74$      3,533,093.48$      3,796,422.14$      4,271,247.54$      4,531,226.38$      4,643,717.10$      
Health & Sanitation
54 General Health Expense 36,994.08$           40,861.97$           45,756.98$           46,332.44$           50,076.44$           53,427.16$           
55 Nashoba Board of Health 27,240.51$           28,602.52$           30,032.67$           36,759.84$           39,516.83$           43,468.51$           
56 Nashoba Nursing 12,431.23$           13,052.79$           13,705.43$           16,848.26$           18,111.88$           19,923.07$           
57 Mental Health -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
58 Animal Inspector Salary 1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             
Total Health & Sanitation 77,665.82$           83,517.28$           90,495.08$           100,940.54$         108,705.15$         117,818.74$         
Department of Public Works
59 Highway Labor 392,645.77$         425,505.77$         490,429.71$         563,104.17$         594,412.60$         609,066.45$         
60 Highway OT 10,951.09$           11,258.20$           8,864.10$             10,512.87$           12,000.00$           12,000.00$           
61 General Highway Maintenance 523,549.33$         689,600.72$         647,904.44$         745,500.00$         863,250.00$         888,250.00$         
61A Capital - General Highway -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
62 Town Highway Garage 1,038.11$             894.86$                1,039.22$             1,040.00$             1,100.00$             1,100.00$             
63 Traffic Signs & Devices 22,896.69$           13,252.95$           27,619.48$           28,253.00$           28,500.00$           28,500.00$           
64 Vehicle Mtc. - Highway 47,967.02$           35,743.84$           54,641.52$           73,480.00$           62,750.00$           62,750.00$           
65 Vehicle Mtc - Police 54,626.45$           73,023.09$           57,310.92$           67,000.00$           67,000.00$           67,000.00$           
66 Vehicle Mtc. - Fire 53,349.30$           31,858.59$           35,930.79$           42,000.00$           45,000.00$           45,000.00$           
67 Park Department 77,271.56$           70,525.39$           80,520.65$           99,826.04$           -$                     -$                     
68 Cemetery Department 58,432.72$           70,878.59$           107,632.67$         100,115.88$         113,027.48$         118,110.48$         
69 Tree Removal 24,205.47$           50,279.85$           27,458.29$           29,142.96$           33,500.00$           38,500.00$           
70 Snow Removal Expense 355,925.37$         347,052.55$         446,439.30$         350,000.16$         355,000.16$         355,000.16$         
Total DPW 1,622,858.88$      1,819,874.40$      1,985,791.09$      2,109,975.08$      2,175,540.24$      2,225,277.09$      
===PAGE 35===
 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FY 2025 Projected Omnibus Budget
 
Line Expended Expended Expended Budgeted Budgeted FY25 TM Rec
No. FY2020 FY2021 FY22 FY23 FY24 Budget
Facilities and Buildings
71 Facilities and Grounds 417,610.05$         404,450.78$         468,470.07$         662,012.93$         666,986.31$         699,011.38$         
72 Public Buildings 199,442.74$         210,482.37$         235,583.27$         235,553.10$         205,553.10$         206,453.10$         
72A Additional Utilities, Library -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
72B Park Department 111,312.30$         117,246.64$         
Total Facilities & Buildings 617,052.79$         614,933.15$         704,053.34$         897,566.03$         983,851.71$         1,022,711.12$      
Solid Waste/Recycling Program
73 Recycling Program 207,751.70$         217,865.78$         284,193.26$         312,634.00$         352,775.00$         469,775.00$         
Total Solid Waste/Recycling 207,751.70$         217,865.78$         284,193.26$         312,634.00$         352,775.00$         469,775.00$         
Public Assistance
74 Council on Aging 144,251.09$         160,072.46$         163,808.91$         189,169.11$         229,647.85$         230,123.00$         
Subtotal C.O.A. 144,251.09$         160,072.46$         163,808.91$         189,169.11$         229,647.85$         230,123.00$         
75 Veterans’ Benefits 83,366.08$           73,222.19$           68,808.49$           99,275.00$           99,275.00$           99,275.00$           
76 Veteran's Administration 5,035.00$             5,000.00$             5,380.15$             10,250.00$           10,250.00$           10,250.00$           
77 Registrar of Vets' Graves 572.30$                347.93$                -$                     500.00$                500.00$                500.00$                
78 Memorial Day 750.00$                70.00$                  70.00$                  750.00$                750.00$                750.00$                
Subtotal Veterans 89,723.38$           78,640.12$           74,258.64$           110,775.00$         110,775.00$         110,775.00$         
Total Assistance 233,974.47$         238,712.58$         238,067.55$         299,944.11$         340,422.85$         340,898.00$         
Schools    
79 School Department 20,697,449.67$    20,644,561.33$    21,631,599.27$    22,325,309.00$    22,883,442.00$    23,901,908.00$    
79A Unemployment School - Stab/Free Cash -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
79B Curriculum Update 17,618.72$           17,686.00$           17,686.00$           17,686.00$           17,686.00$           -$                     
80 Monty Tech Assessment 777,473.00$         876,598.00$         876,289.00$         1,054,376.00$      1,181,390.00$      1,225,646.00$      
81 Vehicle Mtc - School -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
Total Schools 21,492,541.39$    21,538,845.33$    22,525,574.27$    23,397,371.00$    24,082,518.00$    25,127,554.00$    
 Library
82 Lunenburg Public Library 419,175.46$         426,673.23$         438,956.42$         503,955.70$         555,780.60$         583,889.77$         
Total Library 419,175.46$         426,673.23$         438,956.42$         503,955.70$         555,780.60$         583,889.77$         
Total Omnibus  36,864,490.23$    37,445,012.55$    39,209,765.41$    41,641,744.92$    42,903,048.95$    44,024,349.19$    
===PAGE 36===
 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FY23 FINAL BUDGET  FY24 FINAL BUDGET 
 FY25 TM REC. 
BUDGET EXPENDITURES 
 FY23 FINAL 
BUDGET 
 FY24 FINAL 
BUDGET 
 FY25 TM REC. 
BUDGET 
PROPERTY TAXES
Prior Year Levy Limit 27,131,063.00$               28,043,722.60$                29,375,035.67$                Maturing Debt 3,220,578.72$              2,335,199.75$              1,832,252.62$              
2 1/2% Increase  678,277.00$                   701,093.07$                    734,375.89$                    Interest/Issuance Costs on Debt 1,277,144.63$              1,182,813.06$              1,109,068.88$              
Estimated New Growth 234,383.00$                   400,000.00$                    400,000.00$                    Gen Gov Unclassified 3,378,711.07$              4,144,368.33$              4,293,122.97$              
Debt Exclusions 2,831,933.00$                2,477,704.00$                  2,313,898.33$                  General Government 1,852,491.65$              2,029,547.88$              2,177,963.90$              
Override Central Purchasing 77,800.00$                   80,300.00$                   80,300.00$                   
Protection 4,239,354.99$              4,531,226.38$              4,643,717.10$              
TAXES: Total 30,875,656.00$              31,622,519.67$               32,823,309.89$               Health & Sanitation 99,259.90$                   108,705.15$                 117,818.74$                 
Public Assistance 294,404.08$                 340,422.85$                 340,898.00$                 
Facilities & Grounds 897,566.03$                 983,851.71$                 1,022,711.12$              
Solid Waste/Recycling Progam 312,634.00$                 352,775.00$                 469,775.00$                 
STATE PROVIDED FUNDS Department of Public Works 2,101,444.93$              2,175,540.24$              2,225,277.09$              
Cherry Sheet/State Aid                                 10,500,128.00$               10,793,838.00$                10,682,086.00$                Schools 23,397,371.00$             24,082,518.00$             25,127,554.00$             
Police Career Incentive Library 492,983.92$                 555,780.60$                 583,889.77$                 
Additional Aid
Subtotal State Aid 10,500,128.00$              10,793,838.00$               10,682,086.00$               Omnibus Total 41,641,744.92$             42,903,048.95$             44,024,349.19$             
Prior Year Budget Adjustments
PROJECTED  LOCAL RECEIPTS CHERRY SHEET CHARGES
Water Betterments (Meadow Woods) 58,837.50$                     57,587.50$                      56,337.50$                      
Local Receipts 3,110,153.00                  3,160,153.00                   3,251,514.05                   Cherry Sheet Offset 139,987.00$                 146,944.00$                 123,521.00$                 
Subtotal Receipts 3,168,990.50                 3,217,740.50                  3,307,851.55                  State & County 179,650.00$                 179,509.00$                 192,938.00$                 
Choice/Charter Assessments 1,002,610.00$              934,947.00$                 865,150.00$                 
OTHER REVENUES
Overlay Surplus
Free Cash 2,150,230.39$                2,625,123.98$                  1,655,777.91$                  Subtotal CS Charges 1,322,247.00$              1,261,400.00$              1,181,609.00$              
Unexpended Articles 212,089.61$                   14,951.93$                      300,397.62$                    
Premium Reserved for Capital
Comcast Tech Capital Fund
Borrowing Allow for Abatements/Exemptions 116,041.33$                 120,000.00$                 120,000.00$                 
Special Purpose Stabilization Fund Worc Cty Retirement Assessment 1,689,147.00$              1,917,969.00$              2,127,801.00$              
Health Insurance Stabilization Fund 271,000.00$                    105,762.48$                    
MSBA Reimbursements 474,239.00$                   Tax Title 29,000.00$                   29,000.00$                   29,000.00$                   
FY2009 Revenue Reduction (5/1/09 FY10 Recap)
MSBA Reserve for Debt/Premiums 60,262.26$                     59,968.64$                      4.20$                              Capital Articles 2,162,849.00$              1,039,010.00$              1,317,119.98$              
Overlay Article for FY23 Tax Assessments 1,500,000.00$              
Trust & Special Revenue Funds Cemetery Improvements 10,000.00$                   10,000.00$                   10,000.00$                   
Sewer Enterprise APR Article
Sewer Betterments 300th Anniversary Committee 5,000.00$                     
Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund
Student Transportation Offset Receipt Fund Special Purpose Stabilization Fund(s) 450,000.00$                 250,000.00$                 250,000.00$                 
Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings 36,204.86$                     37,621.37$                      36,500.00$                      Sewer Capital Reserve 35,548.86$                   36,621.37$                   35,000.00$                   
Cemetery Sale of Lots Account 10,000.00$                     10,000.00$                      10,000.00$                      Marshall Park Engineering 184,000.00$                 
Artificial Turf Revolving Fund 42,134.74$                     39,321.78$                      41,478.43$                      Woodruff Property Article 100,000.00$                 
Sale of Real Estate Revolving Account TC Passios Design/Eng. Article
 Subtotal Other Revenue 2,985,160.86$               3,057,987.70$                 2,149,920.64$                 Old Primary School Article 250,000.00$                 
Snow & Ice Estimate
OPEB Liability 266,696.00$                 282,855.00$                 187,061.00$                 
Sewer OPEB Liability 656.00$                       1,000.00$                     1,500.00$                     
Other Financing Sources Historical Commission Article 25,000.00$                   
Sewer Project Transfer to Health Insurance Stab. Acct
Septic Loan Revenue Prior Year Expense 2,304.54$                     1,423.52$                     1,994.55$                     
Transfer to Stabilization Fund (5% Oper) 100,000.00$                 100,000.00$                 100,000.00$                 
PEG Access Enterprise Fund 211,375.00$                   210,764.00$                    208,773.00$                    PEG Access Enterprise 163,567.00$                 163,261.00$                 180,843.03$                 
Solid Waste Enterprise 302,000.00$                   302,000.00$                    500,000.00$                    Solid Waste Enterprise 302,000.00$                 302,000.00$                 500,000.00$                 
Water Enterprise 25,000.00$                     25,000.00$                      45,000.00$                      Water Enterprise 25,000.00$                   25,000.00$                   45,000.00$                   
Sewer Enterprise 2,007,150.47$                2,086,219.10$                  2,114,689.00$                  Sewer Enterprise 1,213,182.00$              1,339,850.95$              1,712,419.87$              
TOTAL REVENUE $50,075,460.83 $51,316,068.97 $51,831,630.08 TOTAL EXPENDITURES 50,068,983.65$            51,307,439.79$            51,823,697.62$            
Credit/(Debit) $6,477.18 $8,629.17 $7,932.46
Excess Levy Capacity Excess Levy Capacity Excess Levy Capacity
PROJECTED REVENUES/EXPENDITURES FY2025
===PAGE 37===
 
37 
 
Article 15: FY 2025 Sewer Enterprise Budget 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of FY25 Sewer Enterprise Budget
Revenues Amount
User Charges 1,230,400.00        
Penalties & Interest 10,000.00             
Connection Fees 20,000.00             
Permit Fees 3,715.00               
Estimated Betterment Revenue 473,774.00           
Inflow/Infiltration Fees 5,300.00               
Investment Income 8,000.00               
1,751,189.00       
Expenses Amount
Payroll 92,566.50             
Infastructure Maintenance 87,600.00             
Outsourcing (Pump Stations & Generators) 148,155.00           
Inflow/Infiltration Remediation 10,000.00             
Utilities 42,668.00             
Legal 4,000.00               
Engineering 30,000.00             
Office Expenses 4,025.80               
Capital Expenditures 368,748.99           
Supplier Capital Expenditures Contribution 57,656.64             
Supplier Connection Fees 7,725.00               
Supplier User Fees 859,273.94           
Indirect Costs 90,600.97             
Betterment Debt Service 311,668.16           
2,114,689.00       
Budget Deficit/Surplus (363,500.00)         
Transfer From Retained Earnings to Opeb Trust 1,500.00               
Transfer from Retained Earnings to Capital Reserve Stabilization 35,000.00             
400,000.00           
Total Revenue
Total Expenditures
Total Retained Earnings Appropriation
===PAGE 38===
 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Green Grass and Clear Water 
Many of us value having nice lawns and enjoy the time we 
spend working on them. However, some lawn care practices 
can create water quality problems. Plants need nutrients to 
grow, but excess nutrients, including the nitrogen  and 
phosphorus found in fertilizers, can run off our properties 
when it rains and cause problems in local waterbodies. Too 
many nutrients in our water can trigger algal blooms that 
cloud water and rob it of oxygen. 
Here are some easy practices for creating and  maintaining a 
truly healthy lawn that looks great and is safer for the 
environment! 
1. Test your soil! Only apply fertilizer when necessary. 
2. Apply fertilizer sparingly and ensure proper fertilizer application rates. 
3. Apply fertilizers in the spring and early fall when grass is vigorously growing. 
4. Select fertilizers with low or no phosphorus unless a soil test indicates otherwise. 
5. Apply organic fertilizers if possible. 
6. Choose slow release fertilizers when possible. 
7. Try not to apply fertilizers near waterbodies. 
8. Don’t overwater. Typically, 1-inch of water per week applied over 1 or 2 days is enough. 
9. Mow grass no shorter than 3” high. 
10. Cut grass often enough so you never remove more than 1/3 of the blade at a time. 
11. Leave the clippings after mowing so they can return nutrients to the soil. 
Using these water-quality friendly lawn care and fertilizer recommendations is a small change that can make a 
big difference. 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 39===
 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG                 PRSRT STD                                                                                                                         
P. O. BOX 135                                                                                               U.S. POSTAGE PAID                                                          
LUNENBURG, MA 01462-0135                                                                  ECRWSS                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                         LUNENBURG, MA                                                        
                                                                                                                         PERMIT NO. 8                                                         
 
                  
 
 
                                                                      
 
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER 
 
LUNENBURG, MA 01462 
 
 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG ANNUAL TOWN MEETING 
SATURDAY, MAY 4, 2024; 9:00 A.M.   
LUNENBURG MIDDLE/HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
 