===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
FISCAL YEAR 2016 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
 
Special  Town Meeting
   
November 16, 2015 7:00 PM 
Lunenburg High School Auditorium 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
 
PLEASE BRING THIS WARRANT WITH YOU TO TOWN MEETING 
  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FINANCIAL TERMS 
 
UNRESERVED FUND BALANCE - Previously referred to as Surplus Revenue, Excess and Deficiency Account, 
or E & D Account.  The amount by which the cash, accounts receivable and other assets exceed the liabilities and 
reserves. 
FUND BALANCE AVAILABLE FOR APPROPRIATION - (Free Cash) Unreserved Fund Balance less any 
uncollected prior year’s property taxes, and less any unprovided for or overdrawn accounts.  This must be certified 
as available funds by the State Director of Accounts before it can be voted in lieu of taxes. 
PROVISION FOR ABATEMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS  - (Overlay) Provision by Assessors for abatements 
and exemptions.  This may not exceed 5% of the tax levy unless otherwise authorized by the State Tax 
Commission. 
FUND BALANCE RESERVED FOR ABATEMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS SURPLUS  (Overlay Reserve) 
Any unused balances in the Provision for Abatements and Exemptions Account is available for appropriation. 
RESERVE FUND - This fund is used by the Finance Committee to provide for extraordinary or unforeseen 
expenditures.  The total amount appropriated in any one  year may not exceed 5% of the tax l evy.  No direct drafts 
against this fund can be made, but transfers from the fund can be authorized by the Finance Committee. 
STABILIZATION FUND - Monies placed (voted) into a Stabilization Fund may be appropriated at an Annual 
Town Meeting by a two- thirds vote for any lawful purpose.  This account is sometimes referred to as the “Town’s 
savings account”. 
CHERRY SHEET - The Cherry Sheet is named for the cherry colored paper on which the State notifies  the cities 
and towns of the estimated County and State Assessments and the estimated State distributions  to be used in 
determining the tax rate as an offset to amounts that would otherwise be raised by taxation. 
 
CITIZEN’S CHECK LIST - To Be Considered On Each Vote 
 
 IS IT NECESSARY?  Or is it something that is not really needed or perhaps already being provided by 
a private or public group? 
 
 CAN WE AFFORD IT?   Remember, there is no limit to what we would like, but there is a limit on 
what we can afford. 
 
 WHAT WILL IT COST ULTIMATELY?   Many proposals are like icebergs -- only a small fraction 
of the total cost is apparent on the surface. 
 
 HOW WILL IT AFFECT BASIC LIBERTIES ?  If it imposes unreasonable or illegal restraints on 
your life or that of others, it should be vigorously opposed. 
 
 IS IT IN THE BALANCED BEST INTEREST OF ALL?  If it is designed to benefit a small group or 
special interest, while taking unfair disadvantage of others, work for its defeat. 
 
 IS IT A“FOOT-IN-THE-DOOR” PROPOSITION?  Comprising a little now may bring an oppressive 
burden later, either in more regulations or more taxes or both. 
 
 DOES IT PLACE TOO MUCH POWER IN THE HANDS OF ONE INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP?   
Once decisive power is granted to a non- elected public official, a commission or a municipal authority, 
the private citizens lose effective control. 
 
 DOES IT RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF THE INDIVIDUAL AND MINORITY 
OPINION? 
 
 This is the cornerstone of our Republic.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX OF NOVEMBER 16, 2015 SPECIAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
 
ARTICLE 1. Collective Bargaining Agreement for Professional Firefighters PFFM, Local 4358A 
ARTICLE 2. Prior Fiscal Year Bills 
ARTICLE 3. Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Adjustment 
ARTICLE 4. Rescind Borrowing Authorization, Article 2 of 11/16/2001 STM 
ARTICLE 5. Rescind Borrowing Authorization, Article 4 of 05/07/2005 STM 
ARTICLE 6. Rescind Borrowing Authorization, Article 5 of 10/01/2002 STM 
ARTICLE 7. Rescind Borrowing Authorization, Article 4 of 05/03/2003 STM 
ARTICLE 8. Bylaw Regulating Use of Vehicles on Whalom Lake 
ARTICLE 9. Bylaw Restricting Public Consumption of Marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol 
ARTICLE 10. Bylaw Authorizing Board of Selectmen to License Suitable Persons to Carry On the 
                        Business of Pawnbroker, etc.  
ARTICLE 11. Amend Existing Bylaw, Article XXIX, Agricultural Commission 
ARTICLE 12. Authorize the Board of Selectmen to Enter into Alternative Energy Power Purchase and/or  
                        Net Metering Credit Purchase Agreements 
ARTICLE 13. Amend Salary Administration Plan 
ARTICLE 14. Appropriate or Transfer Funds to Stabilization Fund 
ARTICLE 15. Authorize a Non-Binding Resolution Opposing the Northeast Energy Direct Project   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
NOVEMBER 16, 2015 
 
Worcester, ss: 
To: John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the county of Worcester, Greetings: 
 
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the inhabitants of 
the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the Lunenburg High School 
Auditorium in said Lunenburg on Monday, the 16th day of November next, at 7:00 o’clock in the evening (7:00 
P.M.), for the purpose of taking action on the Town Meeting Warrant, and then and there to act on the following 
articles, viz: 
 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY’15, FY’16 and FY’17 Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM, 
Local 4358A Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 – June 30, 2017, or take any action relative thereto. 
(Submitted By Town Manager) Board of Selectmen recommends approval _____ 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town 
Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends approval _____ 
 
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds all sums of money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY2016 Budget, under Article 15 of the May 2, 2015 Annual 
Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) 
Board of Selectmen recommends approval _____ 
 
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $284,263.59, the remaining borrowing authorization, 
from Article 2 of the 11/06/2001 STM for engineering and construction of sewers; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval _____ 
 
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $28,708, the remaining borrowing authorization, 
from Article 4 of the 05/07/2005 STM for engineering and construction of sewers; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval 
_________ 
 
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $125,000, the remaining borrowing authorization, 
from Article 5 of the 10/01/2002 STM for the renovation of the Turkey Hill Middle School heating system; or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval _________ 
 
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $56,550, the remaining borrowing authorization, 
from Article 4 of the 05/03/2003 STM for the construction and/or renovations of the heating system at the Thomas 
Passios Elementary School; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval _________ 
 
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the enactment of a bylaw regulating the use of vehicles on 
Whalom Lake 
Table of Contents 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
Section 2. Definitions 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles prohibited 
Section 5. Public Access Only 
Section 6. Penalties 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
The purpose and scope of this bylaw is to protect the safety of the public, to prevent the destruction of  aquatic life, 
waterfowl or other wildlife, the decay of water quality and damage to abutting  private and public lands by the 
inappropriate use of motor vehicles, recreation vehicles or snow vehicles on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake; 
to promote voluntary compliance with all applicable laws relating to the operation of motor vehicles and when necessary 
to deter noncompliance through fines and penalties.  
Section 2.  Definitions 
a) Motor Vehicle: any motor vehicle as defined in M.G.L Chapter 90, § 1. 
b) All-terrain vehicle: means a motorized recreational vehicle designed or modified for travel on three or four low 
pressure tires and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control, and 
recreational vehicle or off-highway vehicle as defined in CMR 323, § 3.02 and governed by M.G.L Chapter 90B. 
c) Snow vehicle: a motor vehicle designed to travel over ice or snow, having a curb weight of not more than 453 
kilograms or 1000 pounds, driven by track or tracks in contact with the snow or ice and steered by a ski or skis in 
contact with the snow or ice as defined in CMR 323, § 302 and governed by M.G.L Chapter 90B. 
d) Operation: (1) to ride in or on and control the operation of, or to maintain, suffer, supervise, or permit the 
operation of, or to push a snow vehicle or a recreational vehicle, or, (2)  in the case of a motor vehicle, any person 
who makes use of any mechanical or electrical agency, which alone or in sequence will set in motion the motive 
power of the vehicle, whether or not the engine is not running; or (3) any person who utilizes any combination of 
actions that would set the vehicle in motion. 
e) Public Access: shall mean the public access located in the City of Leominster or any other place where Whalom 
Lake can be accessed by the public.  
f) Law Enforcement Officer: any police officer, constable or other officer authorized to make arrests or serve 
process provided he is in uniform or displays his/her badge of office.  
g) Board: Town of Lunenburg, Board of Selectmen 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
A. No person, or group of persons shall operate, or cause to be operated on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom 
Lake, any snow vehicles that are not in compliance with Massachusetts CMR 323 § 2.01 to 3.09 & MGL c. 90 § 
21 to 35.  
B. When the Town of Lunenburg or any other agency or state agency duly authorized by law has posted the waters 
or frozen waters of Whalom Lake to prohibit access for or use of snow vehicles or all- terrain vehicles, no person, 
or group of persons shall operate any snow vehicle or all-terrain vehicle upon such waters or frozen waters.  In the 
absence of such a posting, persons utilizing water or the frozen water of Whalom Lake do so at their own risk and 
the Town of Lunenburg assumes no responsibility either implied or expressed for the safety of any person who 
voluntarily assumes a known and obvious risk inherent in such activities. No person shall operate a snow vehicle 
or all-terrain vehicle upon any frozen waters of Whalom Lake under any circumstance unless a minimum of five 
inches
 of solid ice cover is present. The operator shall determine the thickness of the ice, and assumes all 
responsibility in undertaking an activity with an inherent and known risk.  
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles Prohibited 
A. No person, group of persons or organizations shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle, as defined 
in MGL c. 90 § 1 on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake.  
Section 5. Public Access Only 
B. No Snow Vehicle or All-terrain vehicle shall enter upon Whalom Lake except by public access or by written 
permission by the landowner. 
Section 6. Penalties 
This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited to, enforcement by 
criminal complaint or fines pursuant to G.L. C.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectman, the Town Manager or their duly 
authorized agents, or any police officer. Whether enforced through criminal or civil process, the fine for a violation of this 
bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300.) for each offense.                                                  (Submitted by Police Chief)  
 
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to enact a bylaw that restricts the public consumption of Marijuana or 
Tetrahydrocannabinol.   
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
The bylaw shall consist of two sections: 
Section 1: No person shall ingest or otherwise use or consume marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol, (as defined in G.L. 
c.94C§ 1, as amended,) other than a qualified patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating condition, all as 
defined under state law, while in or upon a street, sidewalk, public way, footway, or pathway, passageway, stairs, bridge, 
park, playground, beach, recreation area, boat landing, public building, schoolhouse, school grounds, cemetery, parking 
lot, or any area owned by or under the control of the town; or in or upon any bus or other passenger conveyance operated 
by a common carrier; or in any town owned vehicle; or in any place accessible to the public. No person, including a 
qualifying patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating condition, as defined under state law, shall smoke 
marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol in any public place set forth herein.  
Section 2: This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited to, 
enforcement by criminal complaint of fines pursuant to G.L. c.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectman, the Town Manager, 
or their duly authorized agents or any police officer. Whether enforced through criminal or civil process, the fine for a 
violation of this bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300) for each offense. Any penalty imposed under this bylaw shall 
be in addition to any civil penalty imposed under G.L. c. 94C, § 32L.                                    (Submitted by Police Chief) 
 
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town would vote to enact a bylaw authorizing the Board of Selectman to license suitable 
persons to carry on the business of pawnbrokers, buyers and sellers, or dealers in metal, as provided by MGL c.140  
as amended.   
Table of Contents 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
     Subsection A 
     Subsection B 
Section II. Interest Rates 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention  
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
    Subsection A 
    Subsection B 
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
    Subsection A 
    Subsection B 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
   Subsection A 
   Subsection B 
   Subsection C 
   Subsection D 
   Subsection E 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
   Subsection A 
   Subsection B 
   Subsection C 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
   Subsection A 
   Subsection B 
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
Section II. Definitions 
Section III. License Required 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
Section V. Waiting Period 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Article III.  Violations and Penalties; Fees 
Section I. Violations and Penalties 
Section II. License and Administration Fees 
Amendments 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
Subsection A.  
The Board of Selectmen may license suitable persons to be pawnbrokers or buyer of goods pursuant to law. Such licenses 
shall not be valid to protect the holders thereof in a building or place other than that designated in the license, unless 
consent to removal is granted by the Board of Selectmen. Applications for new licenses under this bylaw may be filed at 
any time with the Board of Selectmen. Applications for the reissue of licenses already existing should be filed at least 30 
days before the expiration of such licenses. Persons whose licenses have expired and have not been reissued will be liable 
to prosecution if carrying on business for which the license is required. Every person so licensed shall, at the time of 
receiving such license, file a bond as provided by MGL c. 140 § 77 as amended.  
Subsection B.  
Persons who engage in or carry on the business of lending money on mortgages, deposits or pledges of wearing apparel, 
jewelry, ornaments, household goods or other personal property, or of purchasing such property on condition of selling 
the same back again at a stipulated price, when the property so mortgaged, pledged or purchased is deposited with the 
lender, must be licensed as pawnbrokers. This provision, however, does not apply to loans made on stocks, bonds, notes 
or other written or printed evidence of ownership of property or of indebtedness to the holder or owner of such securities. 
(MGL c. 140, § 70 – 85) 
Section II. Interest Rates 
A. Licensed pawnbrokers may charge interest at the rate of 3% per month, and in no event may they charge more 
than the rate allowed by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. 
B. No such pawnbrokers shall charge or receive any greater rate of interest, and interest shall be determined on the 
precise sum advanced by the lender. 
C. No pawnbroker shall make or receive any extra charge or fee for storage, care or safekeeping of any goods, 
articles or things pawned with him. (MGL c. 140, § 78) 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Subject to the laws of this Commonwealth, any officer of the Lunenburg Police may at any time, enter upon any premises 
used by a licensed pawnbroker or buyer for the purposes of his or her business, ascertain how he or she conducts his or 
her business and examine all articles taken in pawn or bought, or kept or stored in or upon said premises, and all books 
and inventories shall be exhibited to any above name whenever a demand shall be made for such exhibition. (MGL c. 140, 
§§ 73, 74) (Penalty for refusal, MGL c. 140, §§ 73, 74) 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall, at the time of making any loan, attach a number to the article taken in pawn or 
bought, and shall make entry of such number in the book provided for in Section V. of this article.  
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall keep a book of style and size in which shall be legibly written in ink, 
in the English language, at the time of making each loan, an account and description, including all distinguishing 
marks and numbers, and serial numbers of the goods, articles or things pledged or pawned, the amount of money 
loaned or paid thereon, the day and hour when it was pawned, the rate of interest to be paid on such loan, the 
number of such article as same. No entry made in said book shall be erased, obliterated or defaced.  Electronic 
Record Keeping by the pawnbroker or buyer is acceptable as long as the records meet all the bylaw 
requirements.  
B. Every pawnbroker or buyer shall photograph any person pawning or pledging articles and keep such photographs 
with said books as part of his or her records. (MGL c. 140, § 79).  
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
C. For all transactions, every pawnbroker or buyer shall also require positive identification and shall record the type 
of identification presented and record the date of birth from any person pawning, pledging or selling any article. 
Positive identification shall mean any picture identification card issued by a governmental agency. 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention 
Each pledger shall be required by the pawnbroker to sign his or her name, age and address on a card. In the event that the 
pledger is unable to write, the pawnbroker shall fill in the name, age and address on such card, together with a notation 
stating that the pledger was unable to do so. Such card shall be retained seven years in an alphabetical index file by the 
licensed pawnbrokers.  
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Every pawnbroker or buyer shall, at the time of making such loan, deliver to the person who pawns or pledges any goods, 
articles or things, a memorandum or note signed by him, containing the substance of the entry required to be made in his 
book by the provisions of section V. and no charge shall be made or required by any pawnbroker or buyer for any such 
entry, memorandum or note. (MGL c. 140, § 80) 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
    Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall make out and deliver a report of transactions to the Lunenburg 
Police Chief or his designee, every day before the hour of 10:00 a.m., a legible and correct list containing an accurate 
description, including all distinguishable marks, numbers and serial numbers of all articles taken in pawn or bought during 
the preceding business day, the respective numbers of such articles as provided by Section IV of this bylaw, the amount 
loaned or paid thereon, and the time when such articles were pawned or bought. This report can be done electronically or 
faxed to the Lunenburg Police Chief or his designee. If during the preceding day no articles have been taken in by such 
pawnbroker or buyer, he or she is not required to report. This report can be done both electronically via the Internet and 
by fax. 
   Subsection B. If any goods or articles pawned or pledged and in the possession of a pawnbroker or buyer are 
subsequently determined to be stolen property by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or the Massachusetts 
State Police, or if the rightful owner identifies property in the possession of a pawnbroker or buyer and the property so 
identified is confirmed to be stolen goods by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or Massachusetts State 
Police, said property shall be returned to the rightful owner at no cost to such owner.  
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
   Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall post in a conspicuous place in his or her shop or office a copy 
of the statutes, bylaws and police regulations relating to pawnbrokers/buyers to be furnished by the Lunenburg Police 
Department’s Police Chief or designee, and shall put in some suitable and conspicuous place in his shop a sign having 
his/her name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon in lettering of a size and font so as to be easily and readily viewed 
by the public. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall place or maintain any signs or devices upon or in connection with his or 
her licensed premises indicating or tending to indicate that any form of business is conducted therein which he or she is 
not legally authorized to pursue. 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Pawnbroker or buyer shall have his or her shop open for transactions between sunrise and 10:00 p.m. in the evening of 
any weekday and weekend. Under no circumstances can a pawnbroker or buyer operate after the hour of 10:00 p.m. to 
sunrise. 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
   Subsection A. Articles deposited in pawn with a licensed pawnbroker shall unless redeemed, be retained by him on the 
premises occupied by him for his business for at least four months after the date of deposit. 
   Subsection B. After the expiration of the applicable period of time he may sell the article by public auction, apply the 
proceeds thereof in satisfaction of the debt or demand and the expense of the notice and sale, and pay any surplus to the 
person entitled thereto on demand. 
   Subsection C. No such sale of any article, which is not of a perishable nature, shall be made unless not less than 10 days 
prior to the sale a written notice of the intended sale shall have been sent by registered mail to the person entitled to the 
payment of any surplus as aforesaid, addressed to his residence, as appearing in the records of such pawnbrokers. Proof of 
registered mail shall be kept on file for one year after the date of sale. 
   Subsection D. No article taken in pawn by such pawnbroker or buyer shall be disposed of otherwise than as above 
provided, any agreement or contract between the parties thereto to the contrary notwithstanding. 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
   Subsection E.  Articles of personal apparel shall not be deemed to be of a perishable nature within the meaning of this 
section.    
                            (MGL c. 140, § 71) 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
   Subsection A. No pawnbroker or buyer shall make a loan, directly or indirectly, to a person under the age of 18, 
knowing or having reason to believe him or her to be such. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall loan money secured by deposit or pledge of a firearm, rifle, shotgun or 
machine gun.  
                            (MGL c. 140, § 131B) 
   Subsection C. Unless otherwise qualified and licensed under MGL c. 140, no pawnbroker or buyer shall hold a license 
to sell, rent, or lease a firearm, rifle, shotgun, or machine gun. 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
   Subsection A. Complaints concerning licensed pawnbrokers or buyers shall be investigated by the Lunenburg Police 
Department under the direction of the Chief of Police. 
   Subsection B. In the event the Chief of Police determines that disciplinary action should be instituted against a licensed 
pawnbroker or buyer, the Chief of Police shall cause to be served upon the licensed pawnbroker or buyer notice as to the 
time, date and place of hearing, and of the charge with a statement of the reasons for the proposed disciplinary action. 
Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with law.  
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
The Board of Selectmen may suspend or revoke licenses provided for by this article for any cause which the Board of 
Selectmen deems sufficient. Offenses which may result in the suspension or revocation of a pawnbroker's or buyer’s 
license include but are not limited to the following: 
a) A violation of any section of this article. 
b) A violation of any provision of any statute or applicable law. 
c) Any substantial evidence demonstrating, in the opinion of the Board of Selectmen, that the license is no longer 
suitable. 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
The Town of Lunenburg finds that there is a cognizable risk for stolen metals to end up in the possession of even 
legitimate businesses which trade in metals, including precious metals. Certain criminals bring stolen metals, including 
precious metals, to dealers in jewelry and scrap metal. The victims of theft have only a small hope of recovering their 
property unless the people and entities who receive scrap metals and jewelry are regulated in a manner which identifies 
both the metal received by the dealers and the persons who deliver the metal to these dealers. There is an Internet alert 
system used by the Lunenburg Police Department, which reports stolen metals. Monitoring transactions within the town 
and identifying both the metals and the persons selling or delivering these metals will serve both to deter theft and to 
enable the Lunenburg Police Department to trace and recover stolen property and return it to the rightful owners. 
Section II. Definitions 
As used in Article II, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
ARTICLE: Any metal which is subject to Article II and is exchanged, sold, collected, bartered or received by a person 
dealing in metals. 
CHIEF OF POLICE:  The Chief of the Lunenburg Police Department or his designee. 
EXCHANGE: Receiving, purchasing, selling or bartering metals, including precious metals and industrial scrap metals. 
METAL: A chemical element that is malleable, opaque and ductile, usually solid, which has a characteristic luster, is a 
good conductor of heat and electricity, and can be melted or fused, hammered into thin sheets, or drawn into wires, e.g., 
copper, aluminum, gold, silver or iron or other metals. 
PRECIOUS METAL(S): Any metal which is considered valuable, such as silver, gold, platinum, and copper, without 
regard to the form or amount of such precious metal. 
BOARD:  Board of Selectmen 
Section III. License Required 
a) No person shall collect, deal in, exchange, buy, or keep a shop or place for the exchange, purchase, sale or barter of 
metals, including precious metals and industrial metals, in any building or place within the limits of the town without 
having a license issued by the Board of Selectman. The license requirement and the other requirements of this Article II 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
shall not apply to commercial haulers having valid, current United States Department of Transportation stickers affixed to 
their vehicles. 
b) Board of Selectmen may, for a fee set by said board and based upon an application devised by said board, license 
suitable persons to be dealers in and keepers of shops or locations for the purchase, sale or barter of precious metals at 
such places within the town as may be designated in such license. The Board of Selectmen may place reasonable 
conditions on such licenses which shall be inscribed on the face of the license. A license shall be limited to a specific 
address stated thereon. Subject to the notice and appeal provisions contained in 23 of this Article II, the Board of 
Selectmen may deny a license to any person who, in the exercise of his reasonable discretion, is unsuitable. 
c) All metal dealer licenses shall expire annually on the last day in December. The license holders shall be responsible for 
submitting an application for license renewal with the license fee to the Board of Selectmen at least 30 days prior to the 
last day in December. Upon receipt of an application for renewal, the Board shall consider the performance of the licensee 
during the previous year and shall determine whether the licensee had been found in violation of this Article II and other 
bylaws and regulations of the town applicable to metal dealers. 
d) The Board of Selectmen may promulgate reasonable regulations not inconsistent with this Article II which shall be 
binding upon all licensees. No regulation shall take effect until the expiration of 30 days from the date the regulation(s) is 
delivered or mailed to the person(s) then licensed. The Board of Selectmen shall deliver a complete set of regulations and 
any amendments thereto to the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk shall maintain the complete set of all regulations in a book 
available to the public. 
e) The obligation to obtain a license as required by this section will take effect 45 days after approval by Town Meeting of 
this bylaw. 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
No licensee shall, directly or indirectly, exchange any metals with a person under the age of 18. 
Section V. Waiting Period 
No article exchanged, purchased or received shall be sold, or altered in appearance, form or substance until a period of at 
least twenty-one (21) days have elapsed from the date of its purchase or receipt. All articles exchanged, purchased or 
received must be made available to the Lunenburg Police Department upon request within 24 hours of such request, and 
the Police Department may investigate to determine if any article is, or may be, stolen property. This waiting period does 
not apply to scrap metal yards which are exempt from any waiting period. 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Every licensee shall electronically create and send to the Police Chief or his designee, on a form, in the manner and at the 
time prescribed by the Police Chief or his designee, a legible, a complete and accurate list containing an accurate 
description of all metal articles received by the licensee during the previous 24 hours. The description must include: the 
type of metal; the size and/or quantity; whether the article is or may be a precious metal; if applicable, whether the article 
is typically used by or associated with a male or female; the wording of any engraving; whether the article has any gems 
or precious stones; any identifying number and every other identifiable trait. 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
A. Every licensee shall, at the time of making any exchange or receipt of any article, assign and attach a number to each 
article received and shall make entry of such number in the book described in Subsection B.  
B. Every licensee shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written in ink, in the English language, at the time the 
licensee receives any article, the following information: 
1) An account and description, including all distinguishing or identifying marks and numbers of every article received by 
the licensee. 
2) The amount of money, if any, paid for the article. 
3) The date and hour when it was received. 
4) The name, age, permanent address and telephone number of the person from who purchased or received. 
5) A copy of the document used to identify the person giving the article to the licensee.  
A. Every licensee shall require positive identification from any person selling or exchanging any article. The licensee shall 
copy and record the type of identification presented and the date of birth from any person giving or exchanging any 
article. Positive identification means only a government-issued document with the person's name and photograph. The 
licensee shall photograph any person exchanging any article(s). A copy of the identification and the photograph shall 
be kept with the book required by this section as part of his records. 
B. No entry made in the book required by this section shall be erased, obliterated or defaced in any manner whatsoever. 
The book shall at all times be open for the inspection by the Police Chief or any police officer. The licensee shall keep 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
and maintain all the records required by this Article II for a period of three years from the date of the last entry in any 
book. 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Every licensee shall post in some suitable and conspicuous place where he or she receives or exchanges articles, a sign 
having his/ her full legal name, and his/her business name, if different, and his/her occupation legibly described thereon in 
large letters. The current license shall also be so posted. The location where transactions occur, the store or shop and all 
articles exchanged and or kept therein or received therein and the book and documents required by this Article II, may at 
all times be examined by the Police Chief or any police officer at their request. 
Article III. Violations and Penalties; Fees 
Section I. Violations and Penalties 
A. Whoever not having a valid license as required by this Article II, exchanges, collects, deals in or barters metals in any 
place or manner other than that designated in his license, or after notice to him that his license has been revoked, or 
whoever violates this Article II or any rule, regulation or restriction contained in his license, or any regulation 
promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg shall be subject to the fines and sanctions described in this section. Each day of 
such violation shall constitute a separate offense. 
B. The fine for breach of the duty imposed by this Article II is three hundred dollars ($300). Each day on which the person 
continues in violation shall be considered as a separate violation. 
C. This Article II may also, at the discretion of the Chief of Police, be enforced by civil process or by noncriminal 
disposition as provided in MGL c. 40, § 21D. The Chief of Police or any Lunenburg Police Officer may issue tickets to 
enforce this Article II. If enforced civilly by ticket each day on which a violation exists shall be deemed to be a separate 
offense, and the violator shall be subject to the following fines: 
       1) First violation: $150. 
       2) Second violation: $200. 
       3) Third violation: $300. 
       4) Fourth and each subsequent violation: $300. 
D.  In addition to the penalties set forth above, the enforcing authority may seek an injunction from an appropriate court to 
restrain any violation of this Article II, any regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed 
on a license. 
E. The Board of Selectmen may suspend or terminate any license or refuse to renew any license for violation of this 
Article II, a regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed on the license. The Board of 
Selectmen, if electing to take action under this section, shall use the procedure described in this section. 
     1) Notice of violation. Whenever it comes to the attention of the Board of Selectmen that a violation of this Article II, a 
regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or a condition inscribed on a license, the Board shall by written notice, 
deliver personally or send by certified mail to the licensee notify him of the violation and order the person to cease and 
desist. Depending on the severity of the violation as determined by him, the Board of Selectmen may suspend or terminate 
the license. The Board shall also provide notice described herein if it denies an application for a license stating the reasons 
therefor.  
      2) Contents of notice. The written notice to the licensee shall contain a description of the violation(s) and the date(s) of  
occurrence and a citation to the section of the ordinance, regulation or license condition which the licensee is alleged to  
have violated. The notice will, if applicable, describe what the licensee must do to comply, whether the Board of 
Selectmen intends to terminate the license and the effective date of the termination which shall afford the licensee at least 
seven days to file an appeal of the proposed termination to the Board. In the case of denial of a license, the notice shall 
state the reasons for the denial. 
1) Appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of license termination, or denial, the licensee may, within seven days of 
receipt of the notice, file a written appeal by delivery or certified mail to the Board of Selectmen's office 
during the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on days when Town Hall is open for business. When the Board of 
Selectmen receives an appeal, he or she shall appoint a neutral hearing officer who will take testimony from 
any persons with knowledge of the facts including any police officer and the appellant. The appellant may be 
represented by counsel and any person so testifying will be subject to cross examination. The proceedings will 
be governed by the rules of evidence applicable to an informal administrative hearing. The hearing officer will 
assure that an appropriate record, including any documents submitted, is made and kept. The decision of the 
hearing officer will be written and final. 
A. In addition to the other actions available under this bylaw, the Board of Selectmen, subject to the process described in 
this section, may refuse to renew any license. The Board shall not issue a license to any person convicted of a felony. 
===PAGE 12===
12 
 
Section II. License and Administration Fees 
            1) Buyer of Goods and Electronics Annually $250.00 
            2) Buyer of Metal and Precious Metals Annually $250.00 
            3) Pawnbroker License Annually $1000.00                                                                                                                                                                   
(Submitted by Police Chief) 
 
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to add the below boded wording to Article XXIX Agricultural 
Commission,  
Section 1. Said Commission, once appointed shall develop a work plan to guide its activities. Such activities may include, 
but are limited to the following; encouraging the continued pursuit of agriculture in Lunenburg; promoting agricultural-
based economic opportunities in Town; mediating, advocating, educating and/or negotiating on farming issues; working 
for the preservation of prime agricultural lands; to oversee, operate or run a Farmers’ Market; and pursuing all 
initiatives appropriate to retaining farming in Lunenburg, or take any action thereto.  
(Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) 
 
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into alternative energy 
power purchase and/or net metering credit purchase agreements, including solar and wind energy and related net 
electricity metering credits, for terms of more than three years, on such terms and conditions as the Board of 
Selectmen deem in the best interest of the Town; and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to take all actions necessary 
to administer and implement such agreements; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by Board of Selectmen/Town Manager)  
 
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to delete Article XV, Salary Administration Plan, of General Bylaws and 
replace with a new Article XV, Salary Administration Plan, as printed below, or take any other action relative thereto.  
(Submitted by Town Manager on behalf of Personnel Committee) 
 
INSERT HERE 
 
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to 
the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) 
 
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to adopt a Non-Binding Resolution opposing the Northeast Energy Direct 
Project as printed below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen/ Town Manager) 
 
Non-Binding Resolution Opposing the Northeast Energy Direct Project 
WHEREAS, Kinder Morgan has proposed a new 36” high pressure gas pipeline through Massachusetts and New 
Hampshire, as part of a Northeast Energy Direct Project hereinafter called “the Project”; and 
WHEREAS, the Project also proposes a new 12” high pressure (1460 psi) natural gas pipeline, which it calls the 
“Fitchburg Lateral”, to be installed, not in Fitchburg, but in Lunenburg, Townsend, and Mason NH; and 
WHEREAS, Lunenburg is already crossed by a Kinder Morgan pipeline hereinafter called the “South Lunenburg Lateral”, 
which runs from Lancaster to the proposed southern terminus of the Fitchburg Lateral; and 
WHEREAS, the South Lunenburg Lateral has already caused financial damage to Lunenburg citizens; and 
WHEREAS, the completion of the Project appears to create a connection between the proposed Fitchburg Lateral and the 
South Lunenburg Lateral; and 
WHEREAS, said connection could provide Kinder Morgan the opportunity to provide gas service to Worcester through 
Lunenburg including a possible future addition of a compressor station in Lunenburg, or other re-adaptation and re-use of 
the South Lunenburg Lateral; and 
WHEREAS, Kinder Morgan has been silent about its plans to create such a connection, despite its proposing a metering 
station in Lunenburg at the Southern terminus of the proposed Fitchburg Lateral in its Resource Report 1 filed with the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and 
 
===PAGE 13===
13 
 
WHEREAS, the currently proposed pipeline route was chosen in a private, closed process so that there has been no 
chance for open, public discussion or debate of alternate routing possibilities and tradeoffs; and  
WHEREAS, Kinder Morgan identified properties in Lunenburg that it intends the Fitchburg Lateral to cross but declined 
to provide the town of Lunenburg with detailed and current information on the exact route it is proposing; and 
WHEREAS, landowners are being asked to permit surveying on their property or to sign agreements to forfeit some of 
their property rights; and 
WHEREAS, federal eminent domain powers may be used to forcibly take pipeline easements from unwilling landowners; 
and  
WHEREAS, a high-pressure gas pipeline, by its nature, carries the potential for leak, rupture or devastating explosion 
causing untold damage to property and lives; and 
WHEREAS, said pipeline goes against current Massachusetts commitments to renewable energies and combating global 
climate change; and 
WHEREAS, our energy challenges are better addressed through investment in energy conservation measures as well as 
green and renewable energy solutions; and 
WHEREAS, Lunenburg and our neighboring communities have adopted comprehensive master plans, zoning bylaws, 
wetlands bylaws and other land use controls to provide for the orderly development of our communities and the 
conservation and protection of our communities for future generations to come, as good stewards of the land should; and 
WHEREAS, the elimination of environmental threats to our forests and streams from improvident developments is the 
fundamental purpose for the adoption of our land use controls and master plans; and 
WHEREAS, Lunenburg and our neighboring communities have publicly and privately set aside large tracts of land and 
restricted their development for conservation and open space purposes as part of their master plans; 
NOW, THEREFORE, be it RESOLVED that the Town of Lunenburg does hereby declare that it: 
STANDS IN OPPOSITION to Kinder Morgan’s proposed Energy Direct Project and to the Fitchburg Lateral; and 
STANDS IN OPPOSITION to any effort to locate the proposed Fitchburg Lateral within Lunenburg’s borders; and 
FURTHER COMMITS to participate in and provide comments to any meetings held under the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) review process with regard to the proposed Fitchburg Lateral to oppose Kinder Morgan’s 
application; and 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Town of Lunenburg does hereby call upon its state and federal legislators and 
Executive branch officers to enact legislation and take any such other actions as are necessary to oppose such energy 
projects that go against our commitment to public safety, our environment, our economic well-being and our sense of 
community. 
 
 
 
 
 
 