===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
P. O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA 01462-0135
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER
LUNENBURG, MA 01462
TOWN OF LUNENBURG SPECIAL TOWN MEETING WARRAN
Monday, November 28, 2017; 7:00 P.M.
LUNENBURG MIDDLE/HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM
1079 Massachusetts Avenue
PLEASE BRING THIS WARRANT WITH YOU TO TOWN N
===PAGE 2===
3
4
5
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Employees Union Collective Bargaining Agreement
Architectural & Engineering Services for
Conceptual Design and Construction Cost Estimates
of Municipal Offices at T.C. Passios
Supplement May 6, 2017 ATM Article 7 for Wallis
Park Playground Project
Establish Revolving Fund for Technology Fees
Accept Provisions of M.G.L. c. 40, $3
Establish Revolving Fund for Artifical Turf Field
Establish Revolving Fund for T.C. Passios and
Brooks House
Accept Deed in Lieu of Foreclosure for property
located at 842 Chase Road
Moratorium on Sale of Municipal Land & Buildings
located at 960 Mass. Ave., 30 School St., 17 Main
St., 1033 Mass. Ave. & 1025 Mass. Ave.
Lease Agreement with Telecommunications Co. for
Space at Town Hall
Amend Article XV of Town Bylaw to Add Positions
to Salary Administration Plan
Accept M.G.L. c. 90, § 17C
Accept M.G.L. c. 90, § 18B
Accept M.G.L. c. 90, § 20A 1/2
Lease Agreement for Early Learning Mobile
Technology Platform
PILOT Agreement for 265 Pleasant Street
Amend Zoning Bylaw by Deleting Chapter 250, §
Amend General Bylaws by Adding Chapter 204, 81,
§2
TBD
Available Funds
Raise & Appropriate
$25,000
$30,000
To Be Determined
Revenue collected
from E-Permitting
Technology Fees
Revenue collected
from rental and lease
Revenue collected
from rental and lease
2
===PAGE 3===
Worcester, ss:
To: John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings:
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the inhabitants of
the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the Lunenburg Middle/High
School Auditorium in said Lunenburg on Tuesday, the 28th day of November next, at 7:00 o'clock in the evening
(7:00 P.M.), for the purpose of taking action on the Special Town Meeting Warrant, and then and there to act on
the following articles, viz:
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, all sums of money
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2018 Budget, under Article 8 of the May 6, 2017 Town
Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a
recommendation at Town Meeting)
2/3 Vote Required
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to
fund the first year of the FY 18, FY 19 and FY 20 Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM, Local 4358A Collective
Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2017 - June 30, 2020; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted By Town
Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
2/3 Vote Required
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to
fund the first year of the FY18, FY19 & FY20 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2017 - June 30, 2020 with
AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal Employees Union; or take any other action relative thereto (Submitted By Town
Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
2/3 Vote Required
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, the sum of money
to fund architectural and engineering services for the conceptual design and construction cost estimates for the
construction of municipal offices at the T.C. Passios Building; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by
Board of Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
2/3 Vote Required
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money in
the amount of $25,000 to supplement the amount voted under Article 7 of the 2017 Annual Town Meeting on May 6,
2017 under the Capital Planning Report which provided $12,000 to be used for the Playground Project at Wallis Park; or
take any other action relative thereto. (Citizens Petition) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a
recommendation at Town Meeting)
2/3 Vote Required
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to authorize in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 44, §53E½, a revolving fund
for the deposit of proceeds from a technology fee for the purpose of payment of software fees, software upgrades, and
equipment related to electronic permitting. Charges and money received in connection with this program are to be
deposited in said revolving fund and expended by the Town Manager, IT Director, and Land Use Director without further
3
===PAGE 4===
lease of the artificial turf field located at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue starting in fiscal year 2018, which began on July 1,
2017; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Accountant) (Board of Selectmen and Finance
Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to establish a revolving fund for the deposit of proceeds from the rental and
lease of the T.C. Passios Building located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue and the Brooks House located at 1033
Massachusetts Avenue starting in fiscal year 2018, which began on July 1, 2017; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by Town Accountant) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town
Meeting)
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to accept a deed in lieu of foreclosure to property known as and numbered
842 Chase Road, more specifically identified in the Assessor's records at Map 13, Parcel 013-0001, such property to be
held in the care, custody and control of the Conservation Commission for conservation purposes, and to thereby treat as
having been paid real estate taxes and other municipal charges and liens on said property, all in accordance with M.G.L.
Chapter 60, § 77C; or take any action relative thereto. (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a
recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to place a moratorium of no less than ten years on the sale of the land and/or
buildings situated thereon known as the Ritter Memorial Building located at 960 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on
Assessor's Map 071, Lot 074; the land and/or buildings situated thereon known as the old Primary School Building
located at 30 School Street, shown on Assessor's Map 071, Lot 076; the land and/or buildings situated thereon known as
Town Hall located at 17 Main Street, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 005; the land and/or buildings situated thereon
known as the Brooks House located at 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055; and the land
and/or buildings situated thereon know n as T.C. Passios School located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Assessor's Map
060, Lot 055; or take any other action relative thereto. (Citizens Petition) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee
will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into a lease agreement with a
telecommunications company for the lease of space at the Town Hall, for a term of ten (10) years, with three (3), five (5)
year extensions on such terms and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deem in the best interest of the Town; and to
authorize the Board of Selectmen to take all actions necessary to administer and implement such agreement; or take any
action relative thereto. (Submitted By Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a
recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 13 . To see if the Town will vote to amend Article XV of the Town's Bylaw entitled "Salary Administration
Plan" of the Town of Lunenburg as follows: the position of Beach Director be added and assigned to Grade 7; the position
of Lifeguard be added and assigned to Grade 1; the position of Local Inspector be added and assigned to Grade 10; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Personnel Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will
make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to accept M.G.L. c. 90, §17C, authorizing the establishment of a speed limit
of 25 miles per hour on any roadway inside a thickly settled or business district that is not a state highway; or take any
4
===PAGE 5===
ARTICLE 17. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Lunenburg Public Schools to enter into a lease agreement for
up to five years for the purchase of a perpetual license agreement with "Footsteps 2 Brilliance" for an early learning
mobile technology platform; or take any other action relative thereto (Submitted by the School Committee)
(Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 18. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate, approve, and enter into a
tax agreement pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 38H (b), and Chapter 164, Section 1, or any other
enabling authority, between the Town and Nugen, LLC, or its successors or assigns, for personal property attributable to
solar photovoltaic facilities to be installed and operated in the Town of Lunenburg on land located at 265 Pleasant Street
and as shown on Assessor's Map 97, Parcel 90 for a term of up to 25 years and on such terms and conditions and for such
consideration as the Board of Selectmen deems appropriate, and further to authorize the Board of Selectmen to take such
action as may be necessary to carry out the vote taken hereunder; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by
Board of Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Loning Bylaw, by deleting Chapter 250 Section 6.%,
Stormwater Management - NPDES Phase Il Permits and Section 6.8 Discharges to the Municipal Storm Sewer System
and Waters of the Commonwealth NDES Phase Il Permits; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
ARTICLE 20. To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws, by adding the following text as Chapter 204
Sections 1 and 2; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen and Finance
Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting)
204-1. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT - NPDES PHASE II PERMITS
A. Purpose and intent.
(1) Regulation of discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) is necessary for the protection of the
Town of Lunenburg's water bodies and groundwater, and to safeguard the public health, safety, welfare and the
environment. Increased and contaminated stormwater runoff associated with developed land uses and the
accompanying increase in impervious surface are major causes of impairment of water quality and flow in lakes,
ponds, streams, rivers, wetlands, and groundwater which result in the contamination of drinking water supplies;
erosion of stream channels; alteration or destruction of aquatic and wildlife habitat; and flooding. This bylaw
establishes minimum stormwater management standards for the final conditions that result from development and
redevelopment projects to minimize adverse impacts off-site and downstream which would be borne by abutters,
townspeople and the general public.
(2) This regulation requires local review and approval of a stormwater management plan for all development and
redevelopment projects that disturb one acre or more. In addition to these regulations, the owner and/or developer is
also obligated to meet the requirements of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) regulations for
stormwater management.
B. The objectives of this bylaw are:
===PAGE 6===
they work as designed,
(6) To comply with state and federal statutes and regulations relating to stormwater discharges; and
(7) To establish Lunenburg's legal authority to ensure compliance with the provisions of this bylaw through inspection,
monitoring, and enforcement.
C. Applicability. No person may undertake a construction activity following the effective date of this Bylaw, including
clearing, grading and excavation that results in a land disturbance that will disturb equal to or greater than one acre
of land or will disturb less than one acre of land but part of a larger common plan of development or sale that will
ultimately disturb equal to or greater than one acre of land draining to the Town of Lunenburg's municipal separate
storm sewer system, without a permit from the special permit granting authority. Construction activity does not
include routine maintenance that is performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity or the
original purpose of the site. Construction activities that are exempt are:
(1) Normal maintenance and improvement of land in agricultural use as defined by the Wetlands Protection Act
regulation, 310 CMR 10.04;
(2) Maintenance of existing landscaping, gardens or lawn areas associated with a single-family dwelling;
(3) The construction of fencing that will not substantially alter existing terrain or drainage patterns;
(4) Construction of utilities other than drainage (gas, water, electric, telephone, etc.) which will not alter terrain or
drainage patterns;
(5) Work activities of municipal, state or federal agencies or their agents outside of the Phase II boundaries as shown on
the latest U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase
Il maps.
(6) As authorized in the Phase II Small MS4 General Permit for Massachusetts, stormwater discharges resulting from
the activities identified in Subsection C(1) that are wholly subject to jurisdiction under the Wetlands Protection Act
and demonstrate compliance with the Massachusetts Stormwater Management Policy as reflected in an order of
conditions issued by the Conservation Commission are exempt from compliance with this bylaw.
D. Permits and procedures.
(1) The special permit granting authority (SPGA) under this bylaw shall be the Lunenburg Planning Board. Such special
permit shall be granted if the SPGA determines, in conjunction with the Conservation Commission, Department of
Public Works, Board of Health and Building Commissioner, that the intent of this bylaw, as well as specific criteria,
are met. The SPGA shall not grant a special permit under this section unless the petitioner's application materials
include, in the SPA's opinion, sufficiently detailed, definite, and credible information to support positive findings
in relation to the standards given in this section. The SPGA shall document the basis for any departures from the
recommendations of the other Town boards or departments in its decision.
6
===PAGE 7===
(3) Entry. Filing and application for a permit grants the SPGA, or its agent, permission to enter the site to verify the
information in the application and to inspect for compliance with the resulting permit.
(4) Other boards. The SPGA shall give one copy of the application package to the designated technical reviewers, which
include the Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, and Building Commissioner, for the purpose of
reviewing the permit application. The SPA may also engage the services of a peer review engineer at its discretion.
(5) Fee structure. The SPGA shall obtain with each submission an application fee established by the SPGA. The SPGA
is authorized to retain a registered professional engineer or other professional consultant to advise the SPGA on any
or all aspects of these plans. Applicants must pay review fees before the review process may begin.
(6) Actions. The SPA's action, rendered in writing, shall consist of either:
(a) Approval of the stormwater management permit application based upon determination that the proposed plan meets
the standards in Subsection E(2) and will adequately protect the water resources of the community and is in
compliance with the requirements set forth in this bylaw;
(b) Approval of the stormwater management permit application subject to any conditions, modifications or restrictions
required by the SPGA which will ensure that the project meets the standards in Subsection E(2) and adequately
protects water resources, as set forth in this bylaw;
(c) Disapproval of the stormwater management permit application based upon a determination that the proposed plan, as
submitted, does not meet the standards in Subsection E(2) or adequately protect water resources, as set forth in this
bylaw.
(7) Project completion. At completion of the project, the permittee shall submit as-built record drawings of all structural
stormwater controls and treatment best management practices required for the site. The as-built drawing shall show
deviations from the approved plans, if any, and be certified by a registered professional engineer.
E. Contents of stormwater management plan.
(1) Application. The stormwater management plan shall contain sufficient information for the SPGA to evaluate the
environmental impact, effectiveness, and acceptability of the measures proposed by the applicant for reducing
adverse impacts from stormwater. The plan shall be designed to meet the Massachusetts stormwater management
standards as set forth in Subsection E(2) below and the current edition of the Department of Environmental
Protection guidelines and policies. The plan shall be designed to also meet the policy standards of the SPGA. The
stormwater management plan shall fully describe the project in drawings, and narrative. It shall include:
(a) Locus map;
(b) The existing zoning, and land use at the site;
(c) The proposed land use;
7
===PAGE 8===
(i) Estimated high groundwater elevation in areas to be used for stormwater retention, detention, or infiltration;
(k) The existing and proposed vegetation and ground surfaces, with runoff coefficient for each;
(1) A drainage area map showing pre- and post-construction watershed boundaries, drainage area and stormwater flow
paths;
(m) A description and drawings of all components of the proposed drainage system, including:
[1] Locations, cross sections, and profiles of all brooks, streams, drainage swales and their method of stabilization,;
[2] All measures for the detention, retention, or infiltration of water;
[3] All measures for the protection of water quality;
[4] The structural details for all components of the proposed drainage systems and stormwater management facilities;
[5] Notes on drawings specifying materials to be used, construction specifications, and typicals; and
[6] Expected hydrology, with supporting calculations;
(n) Proposed improvements, including location of buildings or other structures, impervious surfaces, and drainage
facilities, if applicable;
(o) Timing, schedules, and sequence of development, including clearing, stripping, rough grading, construction, final
grading, and vegetative stabilization;
(P) A maintenance schedule for the period of construction; and
(9) Any other information requested by the SPGA.
(2) Standards. Projects shall meet the standards of the Massachusetts Stormwater Management Policy, which are as
follows:
(a) No new stormwater conveyances (e.g., outfalls) may discharge untreated stormwater directly to or cause erosion in
wetlands or water of the commonwealth.
(b) Stormwater management systems must be designed so that post-development peak discharges rates do not exceed
pre-development peak discharge rates.
(c) Loss of annual recharge to groundwater should be minimized through the use of infiltration measures to the
maximum extent practicable. The annual recharge from the post-development site should approximate the annual
8
===PAGE 9===
(")
management BMPs. The use of infiltration practices without pretreatment is prohibited.
Stormwater discharges to critical areas must utilize certain stormwater management BMPs approved for critical
areas (see MA DEP's Stormwater Management Volume I: Stormwater Policy Handbook). Critical areas are
outstanding resource waters (ORWs), cold-water fisheries, and recharge areas for public water supplies.
(g) Redevelopment of previously developed sites must meet the stormwater management standards to the maximum
extent practicable. However, if it is not practicable to meet all the standards, new (retrofitted or expanded)
stormwater management systems must be designed to improve existing conditions.
(h) Erosion and sediment controls must be implemented to prevent impacts during disturbance and construction
activities.
(i) All stormwater management systems must have an operation and maintenance plan to ensure that systems function
as designed.
(i) When one or more of the standards cannot be met, an applicant may demonstrate that an equivalent level of
environmental protection will be provided.
(3) Project changes. The permittee, or its agent, shall notify the SPGA in writing of any change or alteration of a land-
disturbing activity authorized in a stormwater management permit before any change or alteration occurs. If the
SPGA determines that the change or alteration is significant, based on the design standards listed in Subsection E(2)
and accepted construction practices, the SPA may require that an amended stormwater management permit
application be filed and a public hearing held. If any change or deviation from the stormwater management permit
occurs during a project, the SPA may require the installation of interim measures before approving the change.
F. Operation and maintenance plans. An operation and maintenance plan (O&M plan) is required at the time of
application for all projects. The maintenance plan shall be designed to ensure compliance with the permit, this bylaw
and that the Massachusetts Surface Water Quality Standards, 314 CMR 4.00 are met in all seasons and throughout
the life of the system. The operation and maintenance plan shall remain on file with the SPGA and shall be an
ongoing requirement. The O&M plan shall include:
(1) The name(s) of the owner(s) for all components of the system.
(2) Maintenance agreements that specify:
(a) The names and addresses of the person(s) responsible for operation and maintenance.
(b) The person(s) responsible for financing maintenance and emergency repairs.
(3) Maintenance schedule for all drainage structures, including swales and ponds.
(4) List of easements, with the purpose and location of each.
9
===PAGE 10===
(b) The purpose of each easement shall be specified in the maintenance agreement signed by the property owner.
(c) Stormwater management easements are required for all areas used for off-site stormwater control, unless a waiver is
granted by the SPGA.
(d)
Easements shall be recorded with the Worcester County Registry of Deeds prior to issuance of a certificate of
completion by the SPGA.
(7) Changes to operation and maintenance plans.
(a)
The owners) of the stormwater management system must notify the SPA of changes in ownership or assignment
of financial responsibility.
The maintenance schedule in the maintenance agreement may be amended to achieve the purposes of this bylaw by
mutual agreement of the SPA and the responsible parties. Amendments must be in writing and signed by all
responsible parties. Responsible parties shall include the owners), persons with financial responsibility, and persons
with operational responsibility.
G.
Surety. The SPGA may require the permittee to post, before the start of land disturbance or construction activity, a
surety bond, cash, or other acceptable security. The form of the bond shall be approved by Town Counsel, and be in
an amount deemed sufficient by the SPA to ensure that the work will be completed in accordance with the permit.
it the project is phased, the SPA may release part of the bond as each phase is completed in compliance with the
permit, but the bond may not be fully released until the SPGA has received the final inspection report as required by
Subsection Hand issued a certificate of completion.
H. Inspections.
(1) At the discretion of the SPGA, periodic inspections of the stormwater management system construction may be
conducted by the Town via the Planning Board, Conservation Commission, DPW or a professional engineer
approved by the SPGA. Written reports shall include:
(a) Inspection date and location.
(b) Evaluation of compliance with the stormwater permit.
(c) Any variations from approved specifications or any violations of the stormwater management plan.
(2) At a minimum, the SPGA or its designee may inspect the project site at the following stages:
(a) Initial site inspection: prior to approval of any plan.
(b) Erosion control inspection: to ensure erosion control practices are in accord with the filed plan.
10
===PAGE 11===
as called for in the stormwater management plan, it shall be corrected by the permittee before the pertormance
guarantee is released. It the permittee fails to act, the Town of Lunenburg may use the surety bond to complete the
work. If the system does not comply with the plan, the permittee shall be notified in writing of the violation and the
required corrective actions. A stop-work order shall be issued until any violations are corrected and all work
previously completed has received approval by the SPGA.
I. Waivers.
(1) The SPGA may waive strict compliance with any requirement of this bylaw or the rules and regulations promulgated
hereunder, where such action:
(a) Is allowed by federal, state and local statutes and/or regulations;
(b) Is in the public interest; and
(c) Is not inconsistent with the purpose and intent of this bylaw.
(2) Any applicant may submit a written request to be granted such a waiver. Such a request shall be accompanied by an
explanation or documentation supporting the waiver request and demonstrating that strict application of the bylaws
does not further the purposes or objectives of this bylaw.
(3) All waiver requests shall be discussed and voted on at the public hearing for the project.
(4) If, in the SPGA's opinion, additional time or information is required for review of a waiver request, the SPGA may
continue the hearing to a date certain announced at the meeting. In the event the applicant objects to a continuance,
or fails to provide requested information, the waiver request shall be denied.
J.
Certificate of completion. The SPGA will issue a letter certifying completion upon receipt and approval of the final
inspection reports and/or upon otherwise determining that all work of the permit has been satisfactorily completed in
conformance with this bylaw.
K. Enforcement.
(1) Enforcement agents. The Building Commissioner, in conjunction with the Planning Board, Conservation
Commission and DPW Director, shall enforce this bylaw, regulations, orders, violation notices, and enforcement
orders, and may pursue all civil and criminal remedies for such violations.
L. Civil relief. If a person violates the provisions of this bylaw, regulations, a permit, notice, or order issued thereunder,
the Planning Board, through the Building Commissioner, may seek injunctive reliet in a court of competent
jurisdiction restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
M. Orders.
11
===PAGE 12===
(2) If the Building Commissioner, in conjunction with the Planning Board, Conservation Commission and DPW
Director, determines that abatement or remediation of contamination is required, the order shall set forth a deadline
by which such abatement or remediation must be completed. Said order shall further advise that, should the violator
or property owner fail to abate or perform remediation within the specified deadline, the Town may, at its option,
undertake such work, and expenses thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(3) Within 30 days after completing all measures necessary to abate the violation or to perform remediation, the violator
and the property owner will be notified of the cost incurred by the Town, including administrative costs. The violator
or property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount or basis of costs with the Planning Board within
30 days of receipt of the notification of the cost incurred. If the amount due is not received by the expiration of the
time in which to file a protest or within 30 days following a decision of the Planning Board affirming or reducing the
costs, or from a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, the costs shall become a special assessment
against the property owner and shall constitute a lien on the owner's property for the amount of said costs. Interest
shall begin to accrue on any unpaid costs at the statutory rate provided in MGL c. 59, § 57 after the 31st day at
which the costs first become due.
N. Noncriminal disposition; right of entry.
(1) As an alternative to criminal prosecution or civil action, the Planning Board may elect, through the Building
Commissioner, to utilize the noncriminal disposition procedure set forth in MGL c. 40, § 2ID, and Chapter 1, Article
I, of the General Bylaws of the Town, in which case the Planning Board, its authorized agents and the Building
Commissioner of the Town shall be the enforcing person. The penalty for the first violation shall be $25. The penalty
for the second violation shall be $50. The penalty for the third violation shall be $100 and $200 for the fourth and
each subsequent violation. Each day or part thereof that such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(2) Entry to perform duties under this bylaw. To the extent permitted by state law, or if authorized by the owner or other
party in control of the property, the Planning Board, its agents, and employees may enter upon privately owned
property for the purpose of performing their duties under this bylaw and regulations and may make or cause to be
made such examination surveys or sampling as the Planning Board deems reasonably necessary.
O. Appeals. The decisions or orders of the Planning Board, in conjunction with the Conservation Commission and
DPW, shall be final. Further relief shall be to a court of competent jurisdiction.
P. Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this bylaw are not exclusive of any other remedies available under
any applicable federal, state or local law.
Q. Severability. The invalidity of any section, provision, paragraph, sentence, or clause of these regulations shall not
invalidate any section, provision, paragraph, sentence, or clause thereof, nor shall it invalidate any permit or
determination that previously has been issued.
12
===PAGE 13===
(3) The objectives of this bylaw are:
(a) To prevent pollutants from entering the Town's municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4);
(b) To prohibit illicit connections and unauthorized discharges to the MS4;
(c) To require the removal of all such illicit connections;
(d) To comply with state and federal statutes and regulations relating to stormwater discharges; and
(e) To establish the legal authority to ensure compliance with the provisions of this bylaw through inspection,
monitoring, and enforcement.
B. Definitions. For the purposes of this bylaw, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY
The Planning Board (hereafter the "Board"', its employees or agents designated to administer/enforce this bylaw.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP)
An activity, procedure, restraint, or structural improvement that helps to reduce the quantity or improve the quality
of stormwater runoff.
CLEAN WATER ACT
The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) as hereafter amended.
DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS
The addition from any source of any pollutant or combination of pollutants into the municipal storm sewer system or
into the waters of the United States or commonwealth from any source.
GROUNDWATER
Water beneath the surface of the ground.
ILLICIT CONNECTION
A surface or subsurface sewer or conveyance, which allows an illicit discharge into the municipal storm sewer
system, including without limitation sewage, process wastewater, or wash water and any connections from indoor
drains, sinks, or toilets, regardless of whether said connection was previously allowed, permitted, or approved before
the effective date of this bylaw.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE
Direct or indirect discharge to the municipal storm sewer system that is not composed entirely of stormwater, except
as exempted in Subsection H. The term does not include a discharge in compliance with an NDES stormwater
discharge permit or a surface water discharge permit, or resulting from fire-fighting activities exempted pursuant to
13
===PAGE 14===
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT
A permit issued by United States Environmental Protection Agency or jointly with the state that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States.
NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE
Discharge to the municipal storm sewer system not composed entirely of stormwater.
An individual, partnership, association, firm, company, trust, corporation, agency, authority, department or political
subdivision of the commonwealth or the federal government, to the extent permitted by law, and any officer,
employee, or agent of such person.
POLLUTANT
Any element or property of sewage, agricultural, industrial or commercial waste, runoff, leachate, heated effluent, or
other matter, whether originating at a point or nonpoint source, that is or may be introduced into any sewage
treatment works or waters of the commonwealth. Pollutants may include but are not limited to:
(1) Paints, varnishes, and solvents;
(2) Oil and other automotive fluids;
(3) Nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
(4) Refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordnances, accumulations and floatables;
(5) Pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers;
(6) Hazardous materials and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens;
(7) Dissolved and particulate metals;
(8) Animal wastes;
(9) Rock, sand, salt, soils;
(10) Construction wastes and residues;
(11) Noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PROCESS WASTEWATER
Water which during manufacturing or processing comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use
14
===PAGE 15===
the discharge of pollutants to waters of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL OR WASTE
Any material which, because of its quantity, concentration, chemical, corrosive, flammable, reactive, toxic,
infectious or radioactive characteristics, either separately or in combination with any substance or substances,
constitutes a present or potential threat to human health, safety, welfare, or to the environment. Toxic or hazardous
materials include any synthetic organic chemical, petroleum product, heavy metal, radioactive or infectious waste,
acid and alkali, and any substance defined as toxic or hazardous under MGL c. 21C and c. 21E, and the regulations
at 310 CMR 30.000 and 310 CMR 40.0000.
WASTEWATER
Any sanitary waste, sludge, or septic tank or cesspool overflow, and water that during manufacturing, cleaning or
processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate
product, finished product, byproduct or waste product.
WATERCOURSE
underground stream.
A natural or man-made channel through which water flows or a stream of water, including a river, brook or
WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH
All waters within the jurisdiction of the commonwealth, including, without limitation, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds,
springs, impoundments, estuaries, wetlands, and groundwater.
C. Applicability. This bylaw shall apply to flows entering the municipally owned storm sewerage system and waters of
the commonwealth.
D. Authority. This bylaw is adopted pursuant to the regulations of the Federal Clean Water Act found at 40 CFR 122.34
and the Phase II ruling from the Environmental Protection Agency found in the December 8, 1999 Federal Register.
E. Responsibility for administration. The Planning Board, in conjunction with the Conservation Commission,
Department of Public Works Director and Building Commissioner, shall administer, implement and enforce this
bylaw. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the above may be delegated in writing by the above to
employees or agents of the above.
F.
Regulations. The Planning Board may promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this bylaw.
Failure by the Planning Board to promulgate such rules and regulations shall not have the effect of suspending or
invalidating this bylaw.
G. Prohibited activities.
(1) Illicit discharges. No person shall dump, discharge, cause or allow to be discharged any pollutant or non-stormwater
discharge into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4), into a watercourse, or into the waters of the
commonwealth.
15
===PAGE 16===
that the source is not a significant contributor of a pollutant to the municipal storm sewer system:
(a) Water line flushing;
(b) Flow from potable water sources;
(C) Springs;
(d) Natural flow from riparian habitats and wetlands;
(e) Diverted stream flow;
(f) Rising groundwater;
(g) Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration as defined in 40 CFR 35.2005(20), or uncontaminated pumped
groundwater;
(h) Water from exterior foundation drains, footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl
space pumps, or air conditioning condensation;
(i) Discharge from landscape irrigation or lawn watering;
(i) Water from individual residential car washing;
(k) Discharge from dechlorinated swimming pool water (less than one ppm chlorine), provided the water is allowed to
stand for one week prior to draining and the pool is drained in such a way as not to cause a nuisance;
(1) Discharge from street sweeping;
(m) Dye testing, provided verbal notification is given to the Planning Board prior to the time of the test;
(n) Non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NDES permit or a surface water discharge permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order administered under the authority of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the
Department of Environmental Protection, provided that the discharge is in full compliance with the requirements of
the permit, waiver, or order and applicable laws and regulations;
(0) Discharge for which advanced written approval is received from the Planning Board as necessary to protect public
health, safety, welfare or the environment.
(3) Discharge or flow that results from exigent conditions and occurs during a state of emergency declared by any
agency of the federal or state government, or by the Town of Lunenburg Town Manager, the Planning Board or the
Board of Health.
16
===PAGE 17===
necessary steps to ensure containment and cleanup of the release. In the event of a release of oil or hazardous
materials, the person shall immediately notify the municipal fire and police departments and the Planning Board and
the Lunenburg Board of Health. In the event of a release of nonhazardous material, the reporting person shall notify
the Planning Board no later than the next business day. The reporting person shall provide to the Planning Board
written confirmation of all telephone, facsimile or in-person notifications within three business days thereafter. If the
discharge of prohibited materials is from a commercial or industrial facility, the facility owner or operator of the
facility shall retain on-site a written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such
records shall be retained for at least three years.
K. Enforcement.
(1) The Building Commissioner, in conjunction with the Planning Board, Conservation Commission and DPW Director,
shall enforce this bylaw, regulations, orders, violation notices, and enforcement orders, and may pursue all civil and
criminal remedies for such violations.
(2) Civil relief. If a person violates the provisions of this bylaw, regulations, permit, notice, or order issued thereunder,
the Planning Board, through the Building Commissioner, may seek injunctive relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(3) Orders.
(a) The Planning Board, in conjunction with the Conservation Commission and DPW Director, may issue a written
order to the Building Commissioner to enforce the provisions of this bylaw or the regulations thereunder, which may
include:
[1] Elimination of illicit connections or discharges to the MS4;
[2] Performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
[3] That unlawful discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist; and
[4] Remediation of contamination in connection therewith.
(b) If the Building Commissioner, in conjunction with Planning Board, Conservation Commission and DPW Director,
determines that abatement or remediation of contamination is required, the order shall set forth a deadline by which
such abatement or remediation must be completed. Said order shall further advise that, should the violator or
property owner fail to abate or perform remediation within the specified deadline, the Town may, at its option,
undertake such work, and expenses thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(4) Costs. Within 30 days after completing all measures necessary to abate the violation or to perform remediation, the
violator and the property owner will be notified of the costs incurred by the Town, including administrative costs.
The violator or property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount or basis of costs with the Planning
Board within 30 days of receipt of the notification of the costs incurred. If the amount due is not received by the
17
===PAGE 18===
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate ottense.
(6) Entry to perform duties. Under this bylaw, to the extent permitted by state law, or if authorized by the owner or other
party in control of the property, the Planning Board, its agents, and employees may enter upon privately owned
property for the purpose of performing their duties under this bylaw and regulations and may make or cause to be
made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the Planning Board deems reasonably necessary.
(7) Appeals. The decisions or orders of the Planning Board, Conservation Commission and DPW shall be final. Further
relief shall be to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(8) Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this bylaw are not exclusive of any other remedies available under
any applicable federal, state or local law.
L.
Severability. The provisions of this bylaw are hereby declared to be severable. If any provision, paragraph, sentence,
or clause of this bylaw or the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this bylaw.
M. Transitional provisions. Residential property owners shall have 180 days from the effective date of the bylaw to
comply with its provisions or petition the Planning Board for an extension, provided good cause is shown for the
failure to comply with the bylaw during the specified period. All other property owners shall have 180 days from the
effective date of the bylaw to comply with its provisions or petition the Planning Board for an extension, provided
good cause is shown for the failure to comply with the bylaw during the specified period.
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public places in the
Town, fourteen (14) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one of which places shall be the Town
Hall, one at Whalom Variety Store in the Whalom-Bakerville District, one at Powell's and one at Jaxx Country
Variety, and by mailing a copy to each dwelling unit in the Town in which a registered voter resides at least
fourteen (14) days prior to such meeting. Hereof, fail not and make due return of this Warrant, with your doings
thereon, to the Town Clerk at the time and place aforesaid.
Given under our hands this 25th day of October in the year Two Thousand and Seventeen
LUNENBURG BOARD OF SELECTMEN
A true copy attest:
Kathyrn M. Herrick, Town Clerk
James E. Toale, Chairma
2
Ebersde, Vice Chairman
Paula J. Bertram, Clerk
18
===PAGE 19===

===PAGE 20===

