===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 
& 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
 
 
 
Special Town Meeting  
November 13, 2018 - 7:00 PM 
Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium 
 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
FISCAL YEAR 2019 
PLEASE BRING THIS WARRANT WITH YOU TO TOWN MEETING 
===PAGE 2===
2  
 
INDEX OF NOVEMBER 13, 2018 SPECIAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
Article Description Cost Source 
 
1 
 
FY 2019 Budget Adjustment Article 
 
TBD 
Raise & 
Appropriate and/or 
Transfer from 
Available Funds 
2 Special Purpose Stabilization Fund TBD Raise & 
Appropriate 
3 FY 2019 Lunenburg Laborers’ International Union 
Collective Bargaining Agreement $10,687.26 Transfer from 
Available Funds 
 
4 
 
Appropriation of Premium Bonds from Pavement 
Management Plan towards cost of project 
 
$104,659.15 
Appropriation from 
Net Premium paid 
to Town for sale of 
Bonds 
5 Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund $6,449.63 Sewer Retained 
Earnings 
 
6 
 
Interim Report from the Charter Review Committee 
  
 
7 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 (Salary 
Administration Bylaw) 
  
8 Salary Survey for Salary Administration Plan 
employees $5,000 Transfer from 
available funds 
9 Noise Control Bylaw   
10 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12 (Americans 
with Disabilities Committee) 
  
11 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 134 (Demolition 
Delay) 
  
12 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250 Section 8.3C 
(Board of Appeals) 
  
13 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, Section 6.5 
E-F (Signs) 
  
14 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, Section 2.1 
(Terms defined) 
  
15 Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, Section 
4.1G (Use Table) 
  
 
16 
Amend Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, Section 4.15 
C-D (Temporary Moratorium on Recreational 
Marijuana) 
  
17 Reduction of Plastic Bags Bylaw-Citizen Petition   
18 Conveyance of 174 Northfield Road Rear- Citizen 
Petition 
  
===PAGE 3===
3  
 
 
 
Worcester, ss: 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
NOVEMBER 13, 2018 
To: Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the county of Worcester, Greetings: 
 
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the inhabitants of 
the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the Lunenburg Middle/High 
School Auditorium in said Lunenburg on Tuesday, the 13th day of November, 2018, at 7:00 o’clock in the evening 
(7:00 P.M.), for the purpose of taking action on the Special Town Meeting Warrant, and then and there to act on 
the following articles, viz: 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, all sums of 
money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2019 Budget, under Article 7 of the May 5, 2018 Town 
Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
 
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to 
the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
(Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
 
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to 
fund the first year of the FY 19, FY 20 and FY 21 Lunenburg Laborers’ International Union, Public Employees Local 39 
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2018 – June 30, 2021; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval for $10,687.26 to be transferred 
from the Salary Reserve Account) 
 
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate all or a portion of the net premium paid to the Town upon the 
sale of the Town’s $3,685,000 General Obligation Municipal Purpose Loan of 2018 Bonds dated April 25, 2018, to pay 
costs of the capital projects financed by such bonds and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed for such projects 
by a like amount, and/or to reserve all or a portion of the net premium to be appropriated for future capital projects; or to 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Finance Director) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee 
recommend approval for $104,659.15 from net premium to pay costs of the Pavement Management Plan) 
 
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from the Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $6,449.63 
into the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Commission) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
 
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to hear an interim report from the Charter Review Committee; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Charter Review Committee) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval) 
(Finance Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled “Salary Administration 
Plan” as follows: to amend §70.17, 70.21, and 70.28, as shown on a document entitled “Amendments to the Salary 
Administration Plan Bylaw” dated October 22, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken- 
through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk and Board of Selectmen; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will 
make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
 
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to fund a salary survey for positions within the Salary Administration Plan; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a 
recommendation at Town Meeting) 
===PAGE 4===
4  
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg by adding a new Chapter 174, entitled 
“Noise Control”, as shown on a document entitled “Noise Control Bylaw” dated October 17, 2018, the entire text of 
which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk and Board of Selectmen; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Police Chief) (Board of Selectmen will make recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance Committee 
voted no financial impact) 
 
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, entitled “Americans with 
Disabilities Committee”, as shown on a document entitled “Amendments to the Americans with Disabilities Committee” 
dated October 22, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken through therein, the entire text of 
which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk and Board of Selectmen; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance 
Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 134, entitled “Demolition Delay”, 
to modify §134-4.D by deleting the number “180” from line 2, i.e. being the length of the demolition delay in days, and 
inserting the number “540” in its place; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Historical 
Commission) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
 
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, entitled “Zoning”, to modify 
§250-8.3.C(1) by inserting a reference to G.L. c. 40A, § 9 by deleting §250-8.3.C.(3) and (4) in their entirety and by 
renumbering §250-8.3.C(5) as §250-8.3.C.(3), all regarding the Board of Appeals, with additions to the Bylaw underlined 
and deletions stricken through below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board 
of Selectmen will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
C. Procedure. 
 
(1) In exercising the powers granted by Subsection B above, the Board of Appeals shall act in accordance with the 
provisions of MGL c. 40A, §§ 9, 11, 14, 15 and 16. 
 
(3) Where action by the Board of Appeals is required under this bylaw, a written application therefor shall be submitted 
by delivery or by registered mail (with return receipt requested) to the Clerk of the Board of Appeals or to such other 
person as the Board may have authorized to receive such applications. If submission is by delivery, the Clerk or 
other authorized person shall give a written receipt therefor, indicating the date of such submission. The Board of 
Appeals shall hold a public hearing with regard to any such application within 65 days of the filing. 
 
(a) In the case of special permits under Subsection B(2), the Board of Appeals shall act thereon within 90 days of the 
filing of the application. 
 
(b) In the case of appeals or applications for variances under Subsection B(1) and (3), the Board of Appeals shall act 
within 75 days of the filing of the application. 
 
(4) Should the Board of Appeals fail to act within the time limits specified above, the application shall be deemed 
approved and the Building Commissioner shall, upon receipt of evidence of such submission and failure to act, issue 
forthwith a permit for the proposed use, provided such use is otherwise in conformity with this bylaw. 
 
(53) Any approval granted by the Board of Appeals for a special permit shall lapse within two years from the grant 
thereof and time for an appeal as provided in MGL c. 40A, § 17, if a substantial use thereof has not sooner 
commenced or, in the case of a permit for construction, if construction has not begun by that date. A special permit 
is further limited by the six-month period provided in § 250-8.1. 
 
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, entitled “Zoning”, to modify 
§250-6.5.E(1) by inserting the words “a home occupation per §250-4.2.(4) or” and §250-6.5.F by inserting §250-6.5.F(4), 
both regarding Signs, with additions to the Bylaw underlined below, to allow some signs By-Right in Commercial 
===PAGE 5===
5  
Districts; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen will make a 
recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
§ 250-6.5 Signs. 
 
E. Signs permitted in Residence A, Residence B, Outlying and Limited Business/Residential Districts. (Class A). In 
addition to signs permitted by Subsection B, the following signs are permitted in all residential districts: 
 
(1) One nonilluminated or indirectly illuminated identification sign for each separate street line of a home occupation 
per §250-4.2.(4) or an approved special permit use not to exceed nine square feet nor eight feet in height; and further 
limited as follows: Said sign shall be subject to the applicable side and rear yard requirements for principal buildings 
and a minimum of 50% of the applicable front yard requirements for principal buildings; the height of such sign 
shall not be a greater than the distance it is located from any lot line, but in no case greater than eight feet in height; 
the square foot area of such sign shall not be greater than 1/2 the linear foot distance it is located from any lot line, 
but in no case greater than nine square feet. 
 
(2) Other signs shall be limited to directional signs necessary for public safety or convenience and shall be designated 
and approved as an integral part of the development plan and for an allowable special permit use. 
 
F. Signs permitted in nonresidential districts. In addition to signs permitted by Subsection B, the following signs are 
permitted in Commercial, Retail/Commercial and Office Park and Industrial Districts: 
 
(1) One sign for the purpose of advertising the sale or lease of the premises, which shall not exceed 32 square feet in 
signboard area. 
 
(2) One of the signs permitted, per use, in nonresidential districts may be internally illuminated. All internally 
illuminated signs located within the building but visible from the exterior of the building shall constitute one of the 
signs permitted. 
 
(3) Other signs, limited to directional signs necessary for public safety or convenience, may be designated and approved 
as an integral part of the development plan as approved by the Planning Board. 
 
(4) One free standing sign that meets the following criteria: 
 
(a) The square footage will not exceed twelve square feet (12 ft2), with no less than a 1:3 ratio between the 
perpendicular sides. 
 
(b) The sign shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25) from the front property line and a minimum of twenty (20) feet 
from the side property line. 
 
(c)    No sign installed under this provision may be lighted. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, entitled “Zoning”, to modify 
§250-2.1, regarding Definitions, by DELETING the definitions for Assisted Living Residence; Bed and Breakfast or Bed 
and Breakfast Establishment; Car Wash; Gasoline Station/Service Station or Filling Station; Hotel, Inn, Motel, Tourist 
Home or Lodging House; Kennel; Office Park; Professional Building; Rooming House or Boarding House; Shopping 
Center; and Townhouse with deletions to the Bylaw stricken through below; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance 
Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
§ 250-2.1 Terms defined; word usage. 
For the purposes of this bylaw, certain terms and words are herein defined as follows. Words used in the present tense 
include the future; words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular; 
===PAGE 6===
6  
the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory; the word "lot" includes the words "plot" and "parcel," and "land" includes 
the words "marsh" and "water." 
 
ASSISTED-LIVING RESIDENCE 
A residential development with support services as defined by Chapter 19D of the General Laws of Massachusetts 
and which conforms to the requirements of said chapter. 
 
BED-AND-BREAKFAST or BED-AND-BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT 
A private owner-occupied dwelling for rent which meets the definition of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Department of Revenue for "bed-and-breakfast." 
 
CAR WASH 
A facility for washing, cleaning and waxing vehicles, including light trucks and vans. 
 
GASOLINE STATION/SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION 
An establishment which provides for the servicing of motor vehicles and operations incidental thereto limited to: 
 
A. Retail sale of gasoline, oil, tires, batteries and new accessories. 
 
B. The changing and repairing of tires, but not including recapping. 
 
C. Battery service, charging and replacement, but not including repair or rebuilding. 
 
D. Radiator cleaning and flushing, but not including repair or steam cleaning. 
 
E. Installation of minor accessories. 
 
F. The following operations, if conducted wholly within an enclosed building: 
 
(1) Lubrication of motor vehicles. 
 
(2) Brake adjustment, replacement of brake cylinders and brake fluid lines. 
 
(3) Minor repair, including the testing, adjustment and replacement of carburetors, coils, condensers, distributor caps, 
fan belts, filters, generators, points, rotors, spark plugs, voltage regulators, fuel pumps, motor hoses and wheel 
balancing. 
 
G. Any area of land, including structures thereon, that is used for the sale of gasoline or any other motor vehicle fuel 
and oil and other lubricating substances, including any sale of motor vehicle accessories and which may or may not 
include facilities for lubricating, washing or otherwise servicing motor vehicles, but not including the painting 
thereof by any means, or major body, engine or transmission work. 
 
HOTEL, INN, MOTEL, TOURIST HOME OR LODGING HOUSE 
A building, or portion thereof, or a group of buildings on a single lot, intended to be used for the temporary 
occupancy of three or more persons who are lodged, with or without meals and in which major provisions for 
cooking may be made in a central kitchen but may not be in individual rooms or suites. 
 
KENNEL 
One pack or collection of dogs on a single premises, whether maintained for breeding, boarding, sale, training, 
hunting, or other purposes and including any shop where dogs are on sale, and also including every pack or 
collection of more than three dogs three months old or over owned or kept by a person on a single premises 
irrespective of the purpose for which they are maintained (MGL c. 140, § 136A). 
 
OFFICE PARK 
===PAGE 7===
7  
An area planned for occupancy by more than one office building, with shared common areas and/or parking areas. 
 
PROFESSIONAL BUILDING 
An office or offices of recognized professions such as doctors, dentists, lawyers, architects, engineers and others 
who are qualified to perform, with or without staff, personal services of a professional nature, provided that the 
residential character of the exterior is maintained. 
 
ROOMING HOUSE OR BOARDINGHOUSE 
A building or premises, other than a hotel, inn, motel, tourist house or lodging house, where rooms are let and where 
meals may be regularly served by pre-arrangement for compensation; not open to transient guests, in contrast to 
hotels, restaurants and tourist homes, open to transients. 
 
SHOPPING CENTER 
An area or building planned for occupancy by more than one retail business, with shared common areas and/or 
parking areas. 
 
TOWNHOUSE 
A single-family dwelling attached to another single-family dwelling in such a manner that each dwelling has a door 
at ground level and front and rear access to the outside. Said dwelling may be in separate ownership from the unit(s) 
to which it is attached 
 
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, entitled “Zoning”, to modify 
§250-4.1.G by inserting the letter “Z” after “SP” for Single and Two-Family Dwelling Uses and deleting Note 3, both 
regarding permitted and prohibited uses, as shown on a document entitled “Amendments to the Code of Lunenburg, §250- 
4.1.G”, dated October 17, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken through therein, the entire 
text of which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
(Finance Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
ARTICLE 16 . To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, entitled “Zoning”, to modify 
§250-4.15.C by deleting November 30, 2018 and inserting May 31, 2019 and §250-4.15.D by inserting a comma at the 
end thereof followed by “the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect” both regarding the temporary 
moratorium on the sale and distribution of recreational marijuana, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions 
stricken through below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen 
will make a recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
§ 250-4.15 Temporary moratorium on sale and distribution of recreational marijuana. 
[Added 5-6-2017 ATM by Art. 33] 
 
C. Temporary moratorium. For the reasons set forth above and notwithstanding any other provision of the Zoning 
Bylaw to the contrary, the Town hereby adopts a temporary moratorium on the use of land or structures for 
recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers. The moratorium shall be in effect through November 
30May 31, 20182019. During the moratorium period, the Town shall undertake a planning process to address the 
potential impacts of recreational marijuana in the Town, consider the Cannabis Control Commission regulations 
regarding recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers and related uses, determine whether the 
Town will prohibit on-site consumption at recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers and shall 
consider adopting new provisions of the Zoning Bylaw to address the impact and operation of recreational marijuana 
establishments and marijuana retailers and related uses. 
 
D. Severability. The provisions of this bylaw are severable. If any provision, paragraph, sentence, or clause of this 
bylaw or the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid the remaining 
portions shall remain in full force and effect. 
===PAGE 8===
8  
ARTICLE 17. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town Bylaws by adding a Bylaw for the 
reduction of plastic bags, as follows:  
 
Section 1. Purpose and Intent  
The production and use of thin-film single-use plastic checkout bags have significant impacts on the 
environment, including, but not limited to: contributing to the potential death of marine animals through 
ingestion and entanglement; contributing to pollution of the land environment; creating a burden to solid 
waste collection-and recycling facilities; clogging storm drainage systems; and requiring the use of millions 
of barrels of crude oil nationally for their manufacture. 
 
The purpose of this bylaw is to eliminate the usage of thin -film single-use plastic bags by all retail and 
grocery stores in the Town of Lunenburg, by J une 1, 2019. 
 
Section 2. Definitions 
2.1 Checkout bag: A carryout bag provided by a store to a consumer at the point of 
sale. Checkout bags shall not include bags, whether plastic or not, in which loose 
produce or products are placed by the consumer to deliver such items to the point 
of sale or checkout area of the  store. 
 
2.2 Grocery Store: A retail establishment where  more than fifty percent (50%) of the 
gross floor area is devoted to the sale of food products for home preparation and 
consumption, which typically  also offers home care and personal care  products. 
 
2.3 Retail Store: An establishment that offers the sale and display of merchandise 
within a building. 
 
2.1 Reusable checkout bag: A bag, with handles, that is specifically designed for 
multiple use and is made of thick plastic, cloth, fabric or other durable materials. 
 
2.2 Thin-film single-use plastic bags: Typically with plastic handles, these are bags 
with a thickness of 2.5 mils or less and are intended for single -use transport of 
purchased products. 
 
Section 3. Use Regulations 
3.1 Thin-film single-use plastic bags shall not be distributed, used, or sold for checkout 
or other purposes at any retail or grocery store within the Town of Lunenburg. 
 
3.2 Customers are encouraged to bring their own reusable or biodegradable shopping 
bags to stores. Retail or grocery stores are strongly encouraged to make reusable 
checkout bags available for sale to costumers at a reasonable  price. 
 
3.3 Thin-filmed plastic bags used to contain dry cleaning, newpapers, produce, meat, bulk 
foods, wet items and other similar merchandise, typically without handles, are still 
permissible. 
 
Section 4. Enforcement Process 
Enforcement of this bylaw shall be the responsibility of the Town Manager or his/her designee. 
The Town Manager shall determine the inspection process to be followed, incorporating the 
process into other town duties as appropriate. Any retail or grocery store distributing plastic 
grocery bags in violation of this bylaw shall be subject to a non-criminal disposition fine as 
specified in Appendix A of the Regulations for Enforcement of Town Bylaws under M.G.L 
===PAGE 9===
9  
Chapter 40, 21D and the Bylaw for Non-Criminal Disposition of Violations. Any such fines 
shall be paid to the Town of Lunenburg. 
 
And to amend Appendix A of the Non-Criminal Disposition Bylaw by adding the following: 
 
Bylaw Fine Schedule Fine Allowed Enforcement Agency 
Plastic Bag 1st Offense Warning Town Manager’s 
Reduction Bylaw 2nd Offense $25.00 Designee 
3rd  & each subsequent $50.00 
Offense 
 
Or take any other action relative thereto. (Citizen Petition) (Board of Selectmen will make a recommendation at Town 
Meeting) (Finance Committee voted no financial impact) 
 
ARTICLE 18. To see if the Town will vote to transfer its right, title, and interest to the land at 174 Northfield Road Rear 
shown on Assessors Map 41, Block 3, Lot D from the Board of Selectmen for which said property is held to convey all of 
such property to Deborah St. Vrain on such terms and conditions and for such consideration, as the Board of Selectmen 
deems appropriate; or take any action relative thereto. (Citizen Petition) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will 
make a recommendation at Town Meeting) 
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public places in the 
Town, fourteen (14) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one of which places shall be the Town 
Hall, one at Whalom Variety Store in the Whalom-Bakerville District, one at Powell’s and one at Jaxx Country 
Variety, and by mailing a copy to each dwelling unit in the Town in which a registered voter resides at least 
fourteen (14) days prior to such meeting. Hereof, fail not and make due return of this Warrant, with your doings 
thereon, to the Town Clerk at the time and place aforesaid. 
 
Given under our hands this 16th day of October in the year Two Thousand and Eighteen  
 
LUNENBURG BOARD OF SELECTMEN 
 
A true copy attest: 
 
James E. Toale, Chairman 
 
Kathyrn M. Herrick, Town Clerk 
 
Robert E. Ebersole, Vice Chairman 
 
 
Damon McQuaid, Clerk 
 
 
Phyllis M. Luck, Member 
 
 
Kathryn Adams, Member 
===PAGE 10===
10  
 
 
 
 
