===PAGE 1===
  Page 1 of 2 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Brian Laffond, Chairman 
Marilyn Stokes, Vice-Chairman 
John Male 
Barbara Reynolds  
Martha McDonald, Secretary 
Mark Erickson 
Mike Mackin 
             
  
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee  
Minutes 
 August 26,  2010 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
Location: Town Hall 
Present: Brian Laffond, Martha McDonald, Marilyn Stokes, Barbara Reynolds, Mike Mackin 
Absent: John Male 
Also Present: Kerry Speidel 
 
1)  Meeting called to order by the Chairman at 7:04 PM. 
 
2)   Welcome New/Returning Members 
 
•  Committee welcomed new member, Mike Mackin, and returning members, John Male 
and Barbara Reynolds. 
 
3)  Minutes 
 
•  Open Meeting Law Workshop held August 5; handouts from meeting provided. 
•  Review of 4/29/2010 minutes; motion by BR to approve and seconded by ME; all 
approved. 
•  Review of 7/29/2010 minutes; motion by MS to accept and seconded by MM; all 
approved. 
 
4)  Reorganization of FY2011 Finance Committee 
  
•  Chairman – BR nominated Brian Laffond, MS seconded; Vice-Chair – BR nominated 
Marilyn Stokes, ME seconded; Secretary – BR nominated Martha McDonald (MMc), 
Mike Mackin (MM) seconded. 
•  Committee/Department Liaison Assignments; ME moved to adopt slate as listed 
below and MM seconded, all approved. 
1.  Capital Planning – Mike Mackin 
2.  DPW – Martha McDonald 
3.  Library – Barbara Reynolds 
4.  Monty Tech – Barbara Reynolds 
5.  Public Safety – Marilyn Stokes 
6.  Sewer Commission – John Male 
7.  Schools – Mike Mackin 
8.  School Regionalization – Mark Erickson 
9.  Service Level Team – Mark Erickson, John Male 
 
5)  Committee/Department Reports 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 2 
•  School Regionalization – efforts slow due to personnel changes at North Middlesex 
schools. 
•  DPW – new Pavement Management Plan presented showing cost for each road; in 
the current year we have $319K available to be used on portions of Lancaster Ave. 
and New W. Townsend Rd.; will also do a crack/seal project for about $40K. 
•  Library – highest circulation month ever in July; more out-of-town borrowing taking 
place. 
•  Monty Tech – voted to certify a revised budget assessment with a $2896 reduction to 
Lunenburg’s assessment. 
•  Schools – next School Committee will determine how new $231K funds will be spent; 
will be handled like ARRA funds; i.e. recall and add employees, fund retirement 
accounts. 
 
6)  Town Manager Updates/New Business
 
•  DPW Facility Update Project had first meeting yesterday; state law requires hiring a 
designer and then contractor; RFP for designer underway; procurement laws made 
project slow to start; most work should be done next spring. 
•  DPW did not spend $15K from FY2010 budget because they were instructed not to 
spend due to overages in snow and ice line item. 
•  Small town hall project – Town Manager to meet with architect. 
•  Town clock has been repaired by Clock Fund. 
•  Municipal Relief Act has an Early Retirement incentive; caps replacement cost as a 
percentage in years 1, 2 and 3. 
•  Municipal Electrical Aggregation – Colonial Electric brings groups together that want 
to purchase as an aggregate; this would allow residents to potentially do the same 
rather than purchase from UNITIL; feasibility study completed and results will be 
presented to the Board next week; BL requested follow-up on earlier discussions on 
UNITIL assisting with few tasks at the school; Vegetation Management Program is said 
to be at 70% of their 5 to 7 year plan; program work currently on hold until approval by 
DPU. 
•  Final FY2010 transfer reviewed – MM made motion to approve, MS seconded, all 
approved. 
•  Water line repairs completed on Reservoir Road but road has not been repaired; 
Town Manager will follow-up with Water District. 
•  Discussion on Lunenburg resident who is a retired teacher who works with communities 
to find ways to save money and is paid on a percentage of savings. 
 
7)  Adjournment 
 – ME made motion to adjourn at 8:41 PM and MS seconded. 
 
Minutes respectfully submitted by Martha McDonald 