===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chair 
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chair 
Peter Beardmore, Secretary 
John Henshaw 
Jay Simeone 
David Passios 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
May 14, 2020 Meeting  
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting 
Present: Terri Burchfield, Michelle Walton, Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, John 
Henshaw, Jay Simeone 
Absent: None 
 
1. Call to Order 
 
o Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read 
the COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement. 
o This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:   
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSOVTrqv66U 
 
2. Announcements:   
 
• (~3:15 to 8:20) Peter Beardmore said he heard from a colleague 
who is involved with Belmont’s government.  The prospect is that 
state aid could decline by 20% to 25%.  Peter emailed 
Representative Hay and Senator Tran to check this out.  Senator 
Tran characterized the information as “not unrealistic”.   Sen, 
Tran’s advice was to plan conservatively assuming up to a 20-25% 
cut in local aid.  The recommendation from the state was to operate 
as conservatively as possible, ideally on a month to month basis.   
• (~8:20 to 10:00 +)   Heather Lemieux said she read Sen. Tran’s 
response differently as far as tone.  She also spoke with Rep. Hay 
and as there has been “zero guidance from any leadership at the 
state about numbers”, she cautioned that voicing the prospect of a 
20-25% cut in state aid was “a dangerous pattern”.  Rep.  Hay told 
her a majority of legislators are reaching out to leadership that 
state aid and education funding is their priority.  

===PAGE 2===
• Heather said the rainy-day funds and the Cares Act could help.  She 
encourages Peter B. stated the rainy day fund will “be depleted 
before we can blink our eyes”. He said, “right now we have to 
assume the worst.” 
• Terri wondered whether the reference to a one twelfth budget 
means the state wondering whether there will be Annual Town 
Meetings.”  
 
3.  Town Manager:  Report on the list of projects and costs sent to Rep. Hay in 
February. Details at (13:55-15:00) 
• There is a chance to get partial funding from the state. 
• The state bill for funding of these projects is a bond issuance.   
 
4.  Capital Projects:  Damon McQuaid called the Capital Planning Committee to 
order.   Present:  Damon McQuaid, Jim LaVeck, John Henshaw.   
• Dave Passios suggests that items #1, 3, 6 and 10 should be 
postponed either until ATM or next year.  He would like to get a 
funding source for the streetlights.  The streetlights will reduce 
expenses.  Now that there is sufficient free cash this is less urgent. 
• Asbestos abatement:  John Londa--if it gets funded at ATM the 
project would be done over the summer.  If postponed until the 
November Town Meeting would push it out to summer 2021. 
• Peter B.  If Town Meeting were to be postponed under the rules of 
the 1/12th budget scenario, could the Town appropriate free cash?  
Heather said that the Town could.  (~31 - 32 min) 
• Terri B. asked how would deferring the replacement of ALS 
equipment affect the Fire Department, Chief Sullivan said that 
postponement could mean not   getting the equipment until the fall 
and perhaps as late as July, 2021 and without it “we’re dead in the 
water as far as certifying and billing at the Paramedic level.  We 
need ALS certification well as the equipment to be able to use the 
ALS equipment.   
• If the ALS equipment is funded at the Fall Town Meeting, the 
department could get the ALS equipment in early 2021.   
• Damon M. emphasized the risk that costs of ALS equipment, which 
is highly specialized gear, could increase.    
• Self-of new Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus would replace old 
SCBA apparatus which is at end of life. 
• Dave Passios also brought up the advantages of consequential 
savings on the streetlight conversion project.   
 
5.  Setting Up a Debt Group:   (~1:30:00 to 1:41) 
===PAGE 3===
• Peter B. listed the big projects:  TC Passios, The Turkey Hill 
Building and the renovation or disposal of  any space that would be 
vacated as a result of the renovation of T. C. Passios.  Totaling all 
the costs may be about what the cost of the Middle-High School 
project.  It may affect debt levels and the tax rate.  A task is to 
construct those scenarios and their effects?  
• Dave P.  said the debt policy needs a review in this context. 
• Peter B. stated that he would like us to have a set of numbers or 
ballpark figure work through this prior to the Town Meeting. 
• Heather L. stated that having an idea of projected revenues is 
important too. 
• Terri suggested setting an agenda at our May 28 meeting. 
 
6.  Committee Reports:  None 
 
7.  Public Comment:  
• Peter B. said that citizens have different sensibilities regarding COVID.  
Perhaps when the current situation abates enough to meet in person, if 
there is a way to have a hybrid meeting--some participants present and 
others participating remotely.   
 
8. Next Meeting:   
 
9.  Adjournment  Dave moved to adjourn, Peter Seconded:  Approved 6 - 0.  8:52 PM 
 