===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee
T
hursday, April 2, 2020
  7:00 PM 
AGENDA 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.  
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board 
of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the 
spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be 
broadcast live through local access cable, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/ ) and will be able to be found on the 
LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely:  
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://zoom.us/j/187355235 or From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 187355235 #  If 
you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
 The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up 
for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
I. ANNOUNCEMENTS
II.CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Budget Calendar
2. Discussion re FY2020 and FY2021 budgets
3. Update from Town Manager/Finance Director
4. Committee Reports
III. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
IV. PUBLIC COMMENT
V. ADJOURN
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per speaker except at the 
discretion of the Chairperson. 