===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chairman 
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman 
Peter Beardmore, Secretary 
John Henshaw 
Jay Simeone 
David Passios 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
April 2, 2020 Meeting  
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting 
Present: Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Michelle Walton, Jay 
Simeone, Peter Beardmore 
Remote:  
Absent:  
 
1. Call to Order 
 
o Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7 PM. And read the 
COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z3sckC1rJi4 
 
2. Review Budget Calendar 
o Town manager does not anticipate bringing back departments that have 
already presented. Those that have not presented already, as well as 
changes to the proposed budget will be reviewed prior to the public 
hearing. 
o An updated schedule was distributed by email which can be found here: 
https://1drv.ms/b/s!Ah6AdYK_60697laWdu4LIjhI9jQn?e=uxauyp 
o The town manager reported that all state revenue and local aide numbers 
are unclear. There are upcoming meetings scheduled that will include 
legislative leaders that will hopefully provide more guidance. Her 
approach for will be to budget with Fiscal 20 revenue projections. Local 
receipts will likely be reduced, as will tax collections projections. New 
positions postings and additional hours for employees will all be 
postponed in favor of expected increases in operating expenses.  
o John Henshaw reported that he had reviewed new growth numbers for 
years following previous recessions.  

===PAGE 2===
o HB4580 is pending which would allow 1/12 budgets and gives flexibility in 
accessing free cash and stabilization funds.  
o We have not heard from either Senator Tran or Rep. Hay about attending 
a meeting. Peter Beardmore agreed to write a description of the 
information we are requesting (comment on local aide and Student 
Opportunity Act) to share with the legislators’ offices. 
o The town manager has directed a spending and hiring freeze to all 
departments. Pandemic-related expenses are being tracked for future 
reimbursement.  
 
3. Committee Reports 
o Peter Beardmore reported that the School Committee met on 3/25. They 
instituted a hiring freeze and voted to continue to pay and employ 
cafeteria and extended day staff through April 7. The projected cost to 
carry the staff through May 7 is approximately $138,000. There are 
revolving funds and cost savings that can cover these costs. John Henshaw 
inquired of costs savings relating to busing and heating. We currently 
don’t have this information, but the busing contract is subject to 
negotiation. 
 
4. Calendar / Upcoming Meetings 
o April 9, 7PM 
 
5. Public Comment 
o none 
 
6. Adjournment 
o John Henshaw motion, Peter Beardmore 2nd, Unanimously approved, 
7:49PM 
 
 