===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 14, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Acting Chairperson Chris Menard, Peter Beardmore (arrived 15 minutes late), Dave Passios, Jay 
Simeone, Tom Balish, Tom Gray, Evan Watters 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Land Use Director Adam Burney, Karen Brochu via Zoom, 
Select Board Member Lou Franco via Zoom, Lunenburg resident Rhonda Lissio 
1. Call to Order 
Chris Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement concerning 
the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/ueog2Zsqgtw 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: None 
 
4. Public Comment: None 
 
5. Public Hearing on Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles: Mr. Menard opened the public 
hearing. Ms. Lemieux, Ms. Brochu, and Mr. Burney went into detail on most proposed warrant 
articles to be heard at Special Town Meeting. Committee members agreed to hold another 
public hearing on November 4, 2021 to discuss those articles still missing key details.  
 
a. Mr. Menard read Article A out loud. Ms. Lemieux explained there would be an increase 
of $4,912 in the Town Accountant’s budget to replace the retiring principal clerk with an 
assistant accountant, as well as adding four hours for the new position. Ms. Lemieux 
also explained the technology budget would increase by $65,352 to cover hiring an 
outside consultant, as well as an upgrade to Microsoft 365, along with network and 
infrastructure upgrades. Ms. Lemieux is in the process of applying for grants to assist 
covering those costs. Whether the town will be awarded the grants will not be known 
until after the Special Town Meeting. Ms. Lemieux also explained an increase in the 
town’s share of Medicare by $39,935, however a reduction in the group health 
insurance along with a reduction in the Monty Tech Assessment will cover that cost. Ms. 
Lemieux also explained that revenue adjustments reflecting new growth along with 
changes in the sewer enterprise budget totaled $156,487 which makes a balanced 
budget for the town.  Mr. Watters and Mr. Simeone asked about whether the schools’ 
technology program came under the town’s budget. Ms. Lemieux explained the schools 
are talking with the town’s technology consultant about proposals, and that the schools’ 
technology will be covered separately from the town.  
===PAGE 2===
b. Article B, concerning payment of prior year expenses totaling $7,519 in technology 
invoices that weren’t known about until after FY21 was closed out. Mr. Beardmore 
asked whether the technology budget was underspent that year. Ms. Brochu answered 
that the FY21 technology budget closed out at $72,000 with $30,000 to cover salaries. 
The committee determined there was enough money left in that budget to cover those 
outstanding invoices. 
c. Ms. Lemieux did not have a number to discuss with the committee concerning the 
Lunenburg Professional Fire Fighters Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
d. Adjusting Elderly Exemption limits on income and assets: Ms. Lemieux explained the 
article aims to adjust the exemption amount from $750 to $1,000 for those single 
seniors with incomes of $31,000 or less and/or assets totaling $52,700 or less, and those 
married seniors with incomes of less than $72,600 and/or assets totaling $72,000 or 
less. Ms. Lemieux explained the adjustment would have an estimated impact of $7,500, 
which could be covered by the overlay account. Mr. Balish and Mr. Beardmore 
commented that the wording of the article doesn’t explain the exemption amount, 
which makes the article appear misleading. Mr. Passios opined that oftentimes it’s the 
asset limit that bumps some a lot of the town’s seniors out of the program. 
e. Easement of land adjacent to Leominster Shirley Rd: Mr. Menard expressed his concern 
about the lack of visibility at the current intersection. Mr. Burney explained that the 
applicant is working with the abutting business to improve visibility by cutting back 
existing vegetation. 
f. Sewer Enterprise budget: Ms. Lemieux explained the fund will provide an increase in 
hours for the assistant to Sewer Business Manager to make it a benefitted position. Mr. 
Passios made clear that those funds would be covered by the Sewer Enterprise fund.  
g. Sewer Commission to transfer $14,875 into their Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund. Ms. 
Brochu explained that there is a certain amount of revenue that gets set aside each year 
to be deposited into Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund.  
h. Demolition Delay: Ms. Lemieux explained the article was submitted by the Historical 
Commission. The article aims to amend the bylaw. The committee agreed Article H 
would have no financial impact. 
i. Salary Administration Plan: Ms. Lemieux explained that the approved positions by the 
Personnel Committee are to be incorporated into the compensation and classification 
grid.  
j. T.C. Passios Building Committee Report: The committee agreed to support hearing a 
report at Special Town Meeting, with hope that more information, and/or a preview will 
be available at the public hearing scheduled for November 4, 2021.  
k. Mr. Menard suggested discussing both Articles K and L together, and pointed out that 
there are currently no known values on tearing down and rebuilding the T.C. Passios 
building. Mr. Passios said there are figures for Article K. Mr. Beardmore expressed his 
preference to discuss Article K when a comparative analysis among other town building 
projects are complete. Ms. Lemieux informed the board that the debt exclusion for 
Article K is $23,570,000. Mr. Beardmore said he had a discussion with Ms. Lemieux, the 
Town’s financial advisor, and Mr. Menard about debt analysis, and that the voters need 
===PAGE 3===
to informed on how the Turkey Hill Elementary School project, as well as any debt 
incurred from any T.C. Passios project will affect their tax rates.  
Ms. Lemieux added that for Article L, the $250,000 figure may change as she anticipated 
an actual number from the architect before the next time the article will be discussed.  
Lunenburg resident Rhonda Lissio commented she would vote no on both articles, and 
opined that the town has unilaterally decided how to use the T.C. Passios building. Ms. 
Lissio encouraged the town to control its impulses, and to look at its office space as a 
whole instead of rendering two buildings useless and charging taxpayers to renovate, or 
build another 55,000 sq. ft. building, and that the only way to reduce the cost is to 
reduce the size. 
Mr. Menard opined that looking further into how some space can be used would be 
beneficial for a decision on Article L. Mr. Passios rebutted, saying that the needs of the 
town have been assessed several times in the last eight years, and it has come to the 
point where the proposals on the T.C. Passios building need to move forward, and be 
voted on by the town.  
 
m. Flat Hill Culvert: Ms. Lemieux explained that easements are needed to repair a culvert 
on Flat Hill Road.  
n. Ms. Lemieux explained that Article N was voted on already, but the Map and parcel 
numbers were wrong at the time. Article N reflects the correct numbers. 
p. Ms. Lemieux explained that the parks commission submitted Article P to include 
Marshall Park in the sewer service area map. 
q. Mr. Burney explained the Article Q aims to rename some districts in town. 
r. Mr. Burney explained that Article R aims to change what the town’s bylaw says to match 
the town’s water district map. 
s. Mr. Burney explained that Article S would then update the town’s zoning map to reflect 
the change in the water district map. 
t. Mr. Burney explained that Article T aims to establish lot size requirements in the Limited 
Business/Residential District and do away with the Retail Commercial District.  
At 8:25 p.m. Mr. Beardmore motioned to close the public hearing, Mr. Watters seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
6. Vote recommendations on Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles: 
a.  Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article A, Mr. Passios seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
b. Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article B, Mr. Balish seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
c. Mr. Beardmore motioned to defer a recommendation until Special Town Meeting on 
Article C, Mr. Watters seconded. Upon discussion committee members agreed they may 
discuss this article again on November 4, 2021. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
d. Mr. Beardmore motioned to defer a recommendation until Special Town Meeting on 
Article D, Mr. Passios seconded. Upon discussion committee members agreed they may 
discuss this article again on November 4, 2021. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
===PAGE 4===
e. Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article E, Mr. Passios seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
f. Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article F, Mr. Balish seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
g. Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article G, Mr. Watters seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
h. Mr. Beardmore moved to find no financial impact on Article H, Mr. Passios seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
i. Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article I, Mr. Watters seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
j. Mr. Beardmore motioned to recommend approval on Article J, Mr. Balish seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously.  
k. Mr. Beardmore motioned to defer articles K and L to Special Town Meeting, Mr. Passios 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
l. Mr. Beardmore moved that the committee find no financial impact for articles M 
through T, Mr. Watters seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
7. Warrant Letter or Other Content for Special Town Meeting: Mr. Beardmore will write a letter 
from the finance committee to Lunenburg voters concerning the potential financial impact of 
articles K and L to be distributed with the Warrant Articles. 
 
8. Minutes: Mr. Beardmore motioned to approve the minutes of the September 23, 2021, and 
October 7, 2021 meetings. Mr. Passios seconded. Mr. Simeone stated he did not read the 
minutes. Motion carries. 6 Yeas, 1 abstain. 
 
9. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective committees. 
 
10. Public Comment: none 
 
11. Items for Future Meetings: Mr. Passios suggested discussing the information the Green 
Communities Committee has collected on replacing the current street lights with L.E.D. street 
lights. The committee agreed to put the item on an agenda in December. 
 
12. Next Meetings: The joint meeting with the school committee regarding Chapter 70 funds will be 
held October 28, 2021. A public hearing will be held November 4, 2021 on outstanding warrant 
articles.  Special Town Meeting November 16, 2021. 
 
13. Adjourn: Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn at 8:25 p.m. Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  