===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, August 12, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris Menard, Evan Watters, Tom Gray, Tom Balish 
 
Absent: None 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg Police Chief Thomas Gammel, DPW Director Rob Oliva, School 
Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault. 
 
1. Call to Order 
Peter Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and read a statement concerning the Open 
Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZBYyoyyTYEE&ab_channel=LunenburgAccess 
 
2. Announcements:  
Mr. Beardmore introduced new recording secretary Amanda Koeck to the committee. 
Mr. Beardmore informed the committee there would be an upcoming joint meeting with the school 
committee regarding Chapter 70 funds on a date to be determined. 
 
3. Public Comment: None 
 
4. Town Manager/Finance Director Report 
Ms. Lemieux shared updates from the latest Select Board meeting, and stated the proposals for the 
School Street project are due Aug. 17, 2021, and that the Flat Hill Road culvert project is still being 
worked on as the engineer has found the prices for materials are still very high, and the backlog of work 
is long due to the pandemic. The project will be put on hold while the Town applies for a small bridge 
grant with hope prices go down in the meantime. The project could start in spring of 2022. 
 
Ms. Lemieux also informed the committee that a structural engineer has looked at the town hall 
envelope as well as the clock tower, and that project is moving forward. 
 
The Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club Food Pantry will be moving from the second floor of the 
public safety building to the TC Passios kitchen area. Ms. Lemieux and the school facilities director are 
calculating operating costs and how those may impact the special revolving account, which involves 
revenue from rent from organizations that currently use the building. Ms. Lemieux is working on finding 
grant opportunities that address food security. Mr. Passios asked whether the food pantry had any 
budgetary impact on the public safety building, Ms. Lemieux replied no. 
 
The town has received 50 percent of funds from the American Rescue Plan Act, which was $614,000 in 
municipal funds. Ms. Lemieux stated there was a determination that the county allocation comes out to 
$2,279,580, 50 percent of which will be paid directly to the town by or around August 16, 2021 with no 
request process. Expenses must be dedicated by December 31, 2024, and performance must be 
complete by December 31, 2026. 
 
Ms. Lemieux informed the committee that the next Special Town Meeting is slated for November 16, 
2021 on the condition that the Select Board approves of the date at their next meeting scheduled for 
August 17, 2021. Articles for the Town Warrant will be due by September 28, 2021 at 5:00 p.m. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Mr. Menard asked about the Flat Hill Road culvert being deemed “safe,” and asked how long it would 
take to complete the project. Ms. Lemieux responded that the culvert is at the same standard it was 
when the Department of Transportation was out to inspect, and that traffic in the area is down to one 
lane.  
 
5. Discussion with DPW Director 
 
Mr. Beardmore explained that all department heads have been invited to finance committee meetings 
proceeding budget presentations to see what the committee has to expect for the upcoming FY23 
budget season, as well as getting reacquainted face to face after a year of remote meetings.  
 
Mr. Oliva informed the committee that the Complete Streets project should be finishing up over the 
next two weeks, and that there are still minor details to be worked out with the Pleasant Street bridge 
project, but that should also be completed soon. 
 
Mr. Beardmore pointed out that the Oak Ave and Main St island, which is involved in the Complete 
Streets project, was not reconfigured as he thought the project stated. Mr. Oliva replied that the grading 
did not go as expected, and wouldn’t allow for the original proposed changes. 
 
Mr. Beardmore asked for an update on the Pavement Management Plan. Mr. Oliva responded that he is 
continuing with the plan, and that he will work on updating it now that Burrage, Prospect, and Whalom 
Rd have been paved and are about to be striped.  
 
Mr. Oliva informed the committee there are $628,000 in Chapter 90 funds still to be spent, and the 
Pavement Management Plan is at about $526,000 to $270,000 including the drainage portion for debt 
exclusion. 
 
Mr. Passios asked about the divots on Pleasant St. Mr. Oliva responded that the divots will be raised to 
grade after the winter. 
 
Mr. Beardmore asked about the DPW’s need for equipment. Mr. Oliva responded that last year the 
department got funding for a new dump truck and pick-up truck, and that on next year’s capital plan 
there’s a ten-wheeler, but since the DPW is no longer using sand, the need for that no longer exists. Mr. 
Oliva said that the biggest need for the DPW is to address roadside vegetation, and that the current 13 
year-old flail mower that attaches to the trackless is not the right tool for the job, and is also in need of 
constant repair. Mr. Oliva stated the DPW needs a large tractor with a rotary mower to efficiently 
handle roadside vegetation, and will probably cost more than $160,000. Mr. Oliva added that the 
trackless does have an attachment for road repair, that works well, but the department doesn’t use it as 
much as it should because interchanging the attachments is laborious. Mr. Passios suggested the 
possibility of upgrading the flail mower. Mr. Oliva replied that one would cost $30,000, but would not be 
the right tool for the job. 
 
Mr. Menard asked how the department is doing in terms of staffing. Mr. Oliva replied that the 
department is still in need of an assistant facilities custodian, a cemetery assistant, and a temporary 
recreation director. Mr. Passios asked if there are any intentions to grow the department. Mr. Oliva 
replied there is not at this time. 
 
Mr. Beardmore commented that the parks department had a rough start to the summer, and expressed 
his opinion that regardless of which entity is in charge of scheduling the parks and fields, all of the land 
should belong to the tax payers. Mr. Oliva responded that the Town Manager and school administration 
are working on better coordination of time management for school use and community use of the parks 
===PAGE 3===
and fields. Mr. Beardmore added that when the committee is looking into potential projects, the 
scheduling issue could make him hesitant to invest. 
Mr. Menard suggested that scheduling on parks and school fields, as well as use of the TC Passios 
building, should all be on the same platform, and that the process should be open to all who are looking 
to schedule the time. Ms. Lemieux explained how requests for use of fields, parks, and buildings are 
currently processed, and considered the possibility of changing the scheduling platform so the schedule 
can be made visible to those groups interested in booking time at parks and fields.  
 
Mr. Menard asked about the status of bridges and culverts over the next five to ten years. Mr. Oliva 
acknowledged a plan needs to be developed to address those issues, and that he hasn’t come up with 
that plan yet. Mr. Passios asked if there were other items on the watch list, drawing attention to a 
culvert on Page St. Mr. Oliva stated that the construction for that culvert will come forward in this year’s 
capital plan.  
 
Mr. Simeone asked about the street sign upgrade project. Mr. Oliva said there is a list of what’s needed, 
and the department is working on that list. 
 
6. Discussion with Police Chief 
 
Mr. Gammel informed the committee that his department is sticking to their 10-year plan, that they are 
moving forward with personnel and have recently hired their nineteenth officer, and that two more 
officers are about to be appointed. As the department continues with the plan, another lieutenant will 
be added to the force, as well as a part-time clerical employee. Mr. Gammel harkened back to 2002 
when the department had fourteen officers and a full time Public Safety Coordinator with an assistant 
who was part-time.  
 
Mr. Menard asked how the workload has changed since the pandemic. Mr. Gammel responded that 
there’s been an uptick in mental health calls, and domestic violence calls, and as the pandemic has 
slowed down, traffic violations have gone up, along with arrest warrants. 
 
Mr. Gammel informed the committee that there will be additional mandatory in-service training for full 
time, as well as reserve officers as a result of the police reform bill signed into law last year. Mr. 
Beardmore asked if the chief would have a better idea of what those trainings will entail as budget time 
gets closer. Mr. Gammel said he will as he will be attending meetings and a hearing in upcoming weeks 
and months, and that he already knows that achieving certification for full time and reserve officers will 
pose a challenge. Mr. Gammel also pointed out that reserve officers will be trained as full time officers 
from now on, and that reserve academies have been phased out. Mr. Gammel emphasized the 
importance of the reserve officers that currently supplement the full time police force, and how much 
they save the town on overtime, but since the police reform law will not allow for reserve officers any 
longer, the department will need to figure out how to move forward without them. Mr. Gray asked how 
many reserve officers are currently on the force. Mr. Gammel said there are currently eight in addition 
to the 19 full time officers currently on the police force.  
 
Mr. Gammel added that now that he has built the force up to 19 officers he will be creating specialty 
jobs including a traffic officer, and when the next two recruits come out of the academy, the 
department will have a detective. Mr. Gammel also wants to separate the community outreach/school 
resource officer into two positions rather than having one officer do both jobs.  
 
The department is also working on collaborations with different groups to better deal with the new 
kinds of challenges police departments are facing by creating crisis intervention teams and involving 
social workers.  
 
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Beardmore then asked the chief how the department is doing in terms of equipment. Mr. Gammel 
responded that the cruisers are very well cared for, and that the department has received new bullet-
proof vests this year. Mr. Beardmore asked about the new body cameras the officers wear. Mr. Gammel 
responded that the body cameras are a helpful addition for compiling reports, and that they’re working 
out very well. Mr. Gammel said he’d also like to outfit the cruisers with cameras, and he’ll be seeking 
out grant funds for that. 
 
Mr. Beardmore asked about the hybrid vehicles. Mr. Gammel responded that the hybrids are good 
vehicles, and they’ll be ordering two more. Mr. Beardmore pointed out that the department went with 
purchasing a hybrid vehicle over a new K9 vehicle. Mr. Gammel stated that the K9 cruiser is not in use all 
the time, so it still has a couple years left in it and that Jerry, the current K9 officer is close to retirement, 
and he has to think on how he will replace the dog, and pointed out that major funds are needed to 
train an officer to work with a dog.  
 
Mr. Gammel discussed and opportunity to lease motorcycles, and pointed out the positive impact the 
motorcycles have on the community when it comes to parades, and providing escorts for funerals, as 
well as traffic tools.  
Mr. Beardmore asked if there is a substantial training requirement. Mr. Gammel explained that the 
training would be covered in his budget.  
Mr. Passios asked about including cruiser replacement into the department’s budget as opposed to 
capital plan. Mr. Gammel responded that if his budget was consistent, he’d be fine with that idea. Mr. 
Passios added another scenario would be that purchasing a motorcycle could start with being covered 
under the capital plan and its replacement should be funded within the department’s budget. Mr. 
Gammel opined that he’s not opposed to something like that as long as there are funds available, but 
that he certainly would not want to end up in a situation where he had to sacrifice personnel positions 
in order to pay for equipment.  
 
Mr. Gray asked if the police department checks on other towns’ department’s salaries to be sure 
Lunenburg officers are within range. Mr. Gammel said they do check on towns the same size as 
Lunenburg especially around negotiations.  
 
7. Old Business 
a. ARPA Planning 
Ms. Lemieux said that she’s still gathering estimates. Mr. Beardmore added that he’s been looking 
into a way to integrate broadband with the replacement of streetlights, but he has received no 
response from Verizon. Mr. Menard commented that the city of Worcester received $110 million 
in ARPA funds, and is spending $10 million on their parks. Mr. Beardmore commented it would be 
good if the town could spend ARPA funds on projects like Marshall Park and the now vacant 
Primary School Building. Ms. Lemieux pointed out that plans for any projects would have to be 
completed so the money could be spent by 2024.  
 
b. 40B commentary 
Ms. Lemieux stated the public comment period for the latest 40B project has been extended to 
September 2, and all correspondence should be submitted to Town Hall by August 28, 2021. 
 
c. Finance Committee procedures and goals document review and approval 
Mr. Beardmore stated that he and Ms. Lemieux spoke the day before about the committee’s 
proposed procedure on off budget spending in excess of $20,000. Ms. Lemieux stated that the 
committee’s proposal is contradictory to the roles and responsibilities of the Finance Committee 
and the Town Manager in the Town Charter. Mr. Beardmore opined that the committee’s 
proposal is non-binding, and is a written request that only lasts for one year, in order to be 
reviewed and decided on for the next fiscal year, and is not a policy or a proposed bylaw, or a 
proposal to change the Charter. It is a request to make sure the only subcommittee of Town 
===PAGE 5===
Meeting is fully informed of where the money is going that’s flowing through the town. Mr. 
Menard expressed his confusion as to how the committee’s request goes against the charter. 
Ms. Lemieux replied that there is no language in the charter that lends itself to the paragraph in 
the request that is interpreted as an approval of the expenditure of funds. Mr. Menard pointed 
out that the Finance Committee goes through an extensive process to develop the budget 
presented at Town Meeting, and then the day to day operations are handed back to the 
executive side of town government. Mr. Menard then opined that it would make sense that off 
budget spending would come back to the finance committee. Mr. Beardmore explained that 
there are things the flow through the town such as earmarks, and Chapter 90 reimbursement, 
that don’t flow through the town’s budget, and so the finance committee is not made aware. 
Mr. Beardmore explained that Lunenburg has a system of checks and balances, and that the 
finance committee is a subcommittee of the legislative branch, and that though the Charter is 
specific to the executive side of government, it is fairly vague when it comes to this 
subcommittee of the legislature.  Mr. Beardmore opined that the finance committee’s request 
only seeks to make the process more transparent. Mr. Menard added that the special reserve 
fund should be included as part of the town’s budget.  
Mr. Gray asked what knowing about an expenditure would do for the committee if they 
wouldn’t act on it. Mr. Passios opined that not having information on off budget expenditures 
takes away from the committee’s ability to review and recommend for future discussions. 
Mr. Gray asked if the committee gets to see expenditures at any point. Mr. Beardmore said the 
finance committee does have access to the audit, but audits have not been discussed by the 
committee for the past two years, but the procedure and goals document aims to create a 
formal discussion on off budget spending. Mr. Balish asked if quarterly reports are discussed 
amongst the finance committee. Mr. Beardmore said that mostly the committee gets them, and 
that they go on the Select Board’s agenda. Ms. Lemieux said she has attended Finance 
Committee meetings where the Finance Director has given updates. Ms. Lemieux stated that 
she has tried to keep the Finance Committee updated on projects, and earmarks, and needs of 
departments, but putting it in writing makes it feel as if it’s a requirement which doesn’t align 
with the Charter. Ms. Lemieux committed to continue to deliver verbal updates and to be as 
transparent as possible. Mr. Balish pointed out that the language in the paragraph could be 
interpreted in various ways, and pondered whether there could be a compromise with the 
language in the paragraph. Mr. Gray expressed he understands the tension around the 
paragraph, because a manager should be free to make decisions without someone looking over 
their shoulder, but at the same time, the committee wants to know as much information as 
possible.  
 
Mr. Beardmore defined the topic at hand as a resolution of the finance committee that will be 
shared with any interested party. That the resolution explains the committee’s expectations and 
how they want to operate, and it is not a directive to anybody. 
Mr. Passios moved to adopt the wording of the Finance Committee Resolution as presented.  
Mr. Menard seconded. On vote, Mr. Beardmore: aye, Mr. Simeone: abstain, Mr. Watters: nay, 
Mr. Balish: nay, Mr. Gray: nay. Motion does not pass.  
Mr. Beardmore stated he would leave the document in the shared drive for review, and the 
topic can be discussed at the next meeting. 
 
d. Committee assignments: 
Mr. Watters volunteered to serve as liaison to the Planning Board by checking in with the town’s 
Land Use Director periodically. 
 
 
8. New Business 
 
a. Special Town Meeting Timeline 
===PAGE 6===
Ms. Lemieux informed the committee that the next Special Town Meeting is slated for November 
16, 2021 on the condition that the Select Board approves of the date at their next meeting 
scheduled for August 17, 2021. Articles for the Town Warrant will be due by September 28, 2021 at 
5:00 p.m. 
Finance Committee recommendations on the warrant are due by October 14, 2021, which will be 
advertised as a public hearing. 
Ms. Lemieux suggested putting the discussion of warrant articles on all agendas beginning in 
September. 
 
b. Senior Citizen Tax Exemption 
Ms. Lemieux and the Select Board have been discussing ways to incorporate a senior citizen 
discount program into real estate taxes that would mirror the current circuit breaker program for 
state income taxes. 
Mr. Beardmore suggested the committee watch the Select Board meeting from July 27, 2021, 
where the board discussed eligibility requirements, and that the exemption is about to become a 
hot topic that will come up in November.  
 
c. APR 
Ms. Lemieux informed the board that the Town was notified by Department of Agricultural 
Resources that the Pierces have withdrawn their application. Therefore the article passed at the 
last Town Meeting will be rescinded and the $66,500 will become free cash to be appropriated by 
the Town Manager. 
 
9. Minutes 
Mr. Simeone motioned to approve the July 22, 2021 meeting minutes as amended. Mr. Menard 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
10. Committee Reports 
Committee members updated each other on their respective assignments 
 
11. Public Comment 
None 
 
12. Items for future meetings 
On November 3, 2021 a joint meeting of the school committee and finance committee will take place to 
learn about Chapter 70 funds from the Massachusetts Association of School Committees.  
 
13. Next Meetings 
August 26, 2021, and September 9, 2021 at 7 p.m. at Town Hall 
 
14. Adjourn 
Mr. Watters motioned to adjourn. Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 