===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 7, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios via Zoom, Jay Simeone, Chris Menard 
 
Absent: Tom Balish, Tom Gray, Evan Watters 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault via Zoom, 
Select Board Chairman Tom Alonzo via Zoom.  
1. Call to Order 
Peter Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/cmyWUZzeBS0 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: Mr. Beardmore informed committee members of the Massachusetts 
Municipal Association Trade Show to take place in January 2022. Mr. Beardmore also let 
committee members know they’ve been invited to participate in the Annual Association of 
Town Finance Committees Meeting via Zoom in October 2021.  
 
4. Public Comment: None 
 
5. Town Manager Report: Ms. Lemieux reported that the Finance Director has submitted the FY21 
balance sheet to the Department of Revenue. $2,665,798 in free cash is to be certified. Ms. 
Lemieux added that she’s been informed by the DPW director that there’s been a 38 percent 
increase for salt which will affect the snow and ice budget. 
 
6. Old Business 
a. Review Special Town Meeting Articles: Ms. Lemieux detailed the warrant articles to be 
heard at a public hearing scheduled for October 14, 2021. Several articles are still in the 
information gathering phase, and won’t be ready to be discussed in full until at least the 
scheduled hearing. 
b. Open Discussion on takeaways from department head discussions, possible earmark 
and budget priorities: Mr. Beardmore inquired about ARPA funds. Ms. Lemieux 
explained the hesitation on spending the money when some projects chosen may be 
funded from other sources. 
 
7. New Business: none 
===PAGE 2===
 
8. Minutes: Mr. Menard motioned to approve the minutes from the September 9 and September 
23, 2021 meetings.  Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
9. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective committees. 
 
10. Public Comment: none 
 
11. Items for Future Meetings: The joint meeting with the school committee regarding Chapter 70 
funds will be held October 28, 2021. The committee agreed that a public hearing will most likely 
be held on November 4, 2021 regarding outstanding warrant articles. 
 
12. Next Meetings: October 14, 2021 (public hearing regarding warrant articles), and October 28, 
2021. 
 
13. Adjourn: Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn at 8:25 p.m. Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 