===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, November 4, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Peter Beardmore, Chris Menard, Dave Passios, Evan Watters, Thomas Balish, 
Thomas Gray 
 
Absent: Jay Simeone 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, T.C. Passios Building Design Committee Chairman Greg Roy, 
Select Board Member Michael Ray Jeffreys, Town Accountant Karen Brochu, Lunenburg Resident 
Rhonda Lissio, Lunenburg Resident Dave Rodgers via Zoom 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/kUqJBVgp2mk 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: none 
 
4. Public Comment:  
 
5. Town Manager/Finance Director Reports: none 
 
6. Public Hearing on Special town Meeting Warrant Articles 3, 7, and 8: Mr. Beardmore opened 
the public hearing. Mr. Beardmore explained that the committee resolved to avail themselves to 
public hearing after the Warrant was printed if more information was made available.  
 
a. Article 3: Though Ms. Lemieux anticipated the collective bargaining agreement with the 
Lunenburg Professional Fire Fighters to be ready for discussion, another piece, not 
having to do with finances, still needs to be addressed. Mr. Passios suggested that 
anything could change until an agreement between the two parties is signed.  
 
b. Articles 7 and 8: As a member of the T.C. Passios Building Design Committee, Mr. 
Jeffreys gave a presentation on Article 7 which pertains to renovation the T.C. Passios 
building. Mr. Jeffreys explained that when the committee was tasked with its charge in 
2019 the cost of renovation would be $22,592,000, and as it’s two years later, the cost 
has increased to $28,967,640, citing cost increases across the board from inflation, to 
materials and labor, as well as the job market.  Mr. Jeffreys also proposed a conceptual 
design for a completely new building for $39,637,229, which would house many uses 
===PAGE 2===
including: most town offices, the ACE Program, Lion’s Club Food Pantry, the Extended 
Day Program, storage for schools and the town, as well as conference/meeting space.  
 
As a Select Board member, Mr. Jeffreys then gave a presentation on Article 8, which 
requests $350,000 to advance the design of the proposed new building, if the town 
would decide to choose that option. Mr. Jeffreys pointed out that as the building stands, 
the current tenants who pay rent on the building are what keeps the building in 
operation, and the town does not currently appropriate any funds for the T.C. Passios 
building. Mr. Jeffreys pointed out that a study was done on all town facilities in 2016, 
which revealed the town would soon need a new building to house town offices as 
Town Hall and the Ritter buildings have been rendered inadequate. Mr. Jeffreys shared 
pictures of current storage conditions, and informed those in attendance that the town 
has lost records due to mold from leaking roofs. Mr. Jeffreys drew attention to the 
inadequate accessibility of the Ritter building, as well as an inadequate supply of 
electricity. He also pointed out that by relocating town offices, a preservation of Town 
Hall and the Ritter could be attempted. Mr. Jeffreys also suggested in his presentation 
that not investing in a new building will cost the town millions of dollars a year to 
address the problems it currently faces with the existing conditions. Mr. Jeffreys 
explained that the late information of the increase in costs has caused the Select Board 
to recommend to pass over both Articles 7 and 8 at Special Town Meeting on Nov. 16, 
2021. 
Mr. Beardmore thanked Mr. Jeffrey for the presentations, and asked Ms. Lemieux what 
she knew about the new numbers. She consulted the town’s financial advisor, who was 
not available to give an answer. 
Mr. Beardmore said he encouraged the Select Board to pass over the articles. Mr. 
Beardmore also said he analyzed the new numbers and compared them to the average 
value of homes in Lunenburg and realized that funding either project, without taking 
into consideration funds to be expended to address Turkey Hill Elementary School, 
would put the town in violation of its own financial policies for five years. Mr. 
Beardmore calculated that the average property owner could expect to pay $341 more 
per year at the $28.9 million price tag, and $467 more per year with the $39.6 million 
price tag.  
Mr. Menard approached the situation as a need vs. want scenario, and questioned 
whether busing students from the Primary School to the T.C. Passios for two hours out 
of the day was beneficial. Mr. Jeffreys said that the Extended Day Program is definitely a 
need, and that Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham had several reasons why it’s important 
for students to separate learning in the classroom from after school activity. Mr. 
Menard agreed that Extended Day is needed, but asked whether it needs to take place 
at the T.C. Passios and suggested the town library as an alternate location citing the 
library’s newest master plan featuring the library as a community space. Mr. Watters 
asked whether the projects have taken into account the possible increase to the 
Extended Day Program.  
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Gray inquired if there were other locations for some uses, could the size of the 
building be decreased in order to lower the cost. Mr. Jeffrey responded that it’s not a 
proportionate relationship. 
Mr. Beardmore concluded that there is a strong possibility that the articles will be 
passed over, and asked where the town should go from there. Mr. Jeffreys reiterated 
that the problems the town faces will not go away, and the T.C. Passios Building Design 
Committee has done the best they can do. Mr. Jeffreys pointed out that the Town 
Manager plans to separate town facilities from the Department of Public Works, which 
will give the town the opportunity to properly address problems with town buildings.  
Mr. Watters motioned to close the public hearing. Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously.  
 
Public Hearing Public Comment:  
Ms. Lissio commented that she disagrees with the tasks the T.C. Passios Building Design 
Committee were charged with, which was to house the current groups using the T.C. Passios 
building along with municipal offices. Ms. Lissio stated that she disagrees with passing the costs 
of housing the existing programs onto the tax payer. Ms. Lissio also claimed that in her research 
she found only one community that funds an Extended Day Program, and that is Lexington.  
Mr. Rodgers called into the meeting and recognized that the town faces a complex situation 
with prices being a moving target, and that any project will cost more money than anticipated.  
 
7. Discussion and Votes on recommendations for Special Town Meeting Articles:  The committee 
agreed to meet at 6:00 p.m. on November 16, 2021, an hour before Special Town Meeting is 
scheduled to start to address any new information regarding Article 3.  
On Articles 7 and 8 Mr. Beardmore informed the committee their choices are to recommend 
approval, recommend disapproval, defer, or claim no financial impact, and that the committee 
would be setting a precedent to recommend to vote to pass over the articles.  
Mr. Passios opined he would only vote on passing over if the motion was on the floor at Town 
Meeting. Mr. Passios expressed that passing over would not give voters a clear picture of what 
committee members are thinking, and that without debating the articles on the floor, and giving 
the public a chance to respond, there’s no way to tell how the rest of the town thinks on the 
articles. Mr. Passios also expressed his concern over the current working conditions of the 
town’s employees and the possibility of a push back, and asked if not now, when. Mr. Passios 
wants to hear the voice of the townspeople. Mr. Beardmore opined that if committee members 
had more time to consider the numbers they might be able to form an opinion to express, and 
also pointed out that with commodities pricing, along with inflation, and other issues being 
impacted by the pandemic also holds weight in deciding. Mr. Menard agreed with Mr. 
Beardmore and said the committee should have been able to start the discussion six weeks ago, 
and if they did, committee members might have an answer. Mr. Menard agreed to take a stand 
and recommend passing over the articles, and recognized that passing over is unprecedented, 
and pointed out that these are unprecedented times. Mr. Menard also said he would disapprove 
both articles, citing that Article 8 is still incomplete, and the price is too high. Mr. Passios 
pointed out that a yes vote to renovate the T.C. Passios would result in a special election to fill 
===PAGE 4===
the sudden vacant seat on the Select Board. Mr. Watters pondered whether recommending to 
pass over the articles would only lead to another Town Meeting where the committee would 
again seek to pass over the articles. Mr. Watters also said he would vote to disapprove both 
articles because putting all the proposed uses together does not make sense. At the same time, 
Mr. Watters expressed his concern over kicking the can down the road, and pointed out that it’s 
been almost a decade, and the town is still having the same discussion. Mr. Gray said it’s the 
committee’s job to make a recommendation, and currently he couldn’t approve of the article, so 
he would vote to disapprove. Mr. Gray also pointed out that if the prices keep rising, and they 
go up to $50 million, there won’t be much building of anything anywhere. Mr. Gray also drew 
attention to the programs the town currently provides at the T.C. Passios, and pondered what 
kind of town Lunenburg would be if they did not provide those programs. Mr. Beardmore 
claimed he’s been against the articles since they’ve began, and that comparing the options of 
renovation and building new was the right thing to do. Mr. Beardmore prefers to look at 
alternative options for the ACE Program, Extended Day, PACC, and food bank locations within 
the next six months. Mr. Beardmore said he’s not sold on municipal offices and all the other 
programs needing to exist under one roof. Mr. Beardmore said he’d initially vote for 
disapproval, but would entertain a motion to pass over the articles.  Mr. Balish claimed he’d be 
against both articles and would prefer to look at what the town can actually afford, and make a 
decision based on that.  
 
Mr. Menard moved to recommend disapproval of Article 7, Mr. Gray seconded. Motion passes, 
3-2. Mr. Menard –yea, Mr. Balish –yea, Mr. Beardmore –yea, Mr. Passios –no, Mr. Watters –no. 
 
Mr. Menard moved to recommend disapproval of Article 8, Mr. Balish seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
Mr. Menard moved to recommend the Finance Committee, as a whole, pass over Articles 7 and 
8, Mr. Beardmore seconded. Motion failed. 4 no, 2 aye. 
Balish –no, Gray –no, Passios –no, Watters –no, Menard –aye, Beardmore-aye  
Mr. Passios explained that a vote of the Finance Committee, as a whole, would not impact the 
way he votes on other committees.  
Mr. Menard reiterated that the committee has just been presented with new data, which hasn’t 
had the opportunity to be discussed enough publicly, and that is his reasoning behind the 
recommendation to pass over.  
Ms. Lemieux clarified for the committee that moving to pass over the articles on the Town 
Meeting Floor is a debatable motion, which can be discussed on the floor. 
 
8. Special Town Meeting Consent Calendar: Ms. Lemieux informed the committee that the Select 
Board voted Articles 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 as “noncontroversial,” and agreed to vote those 
articles first at Special Town Meeting as a block. 
Mr. Menard moved to recommend agreement with the Select Board on the consent calendar, 
Mr. Balish seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
9. Minutes: No minutes to review. 
===PAGE 5===
 
10. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective liaison 
assignments.  
 
11. Public Comment  
Mr. Passios informed those in attendance that the T.C. Passios Building Design Committee 
would host a public forum on the latest information regarding Articles 7 and 8 on November 10, 
2021. 
 
Mr. Beardmore reminded those in attendance that the work of town committees and boards is 
that of volunteers, and that there aren’t many, if any hidden agendas, and everyone is trying 
their best to do what’s right for the town. Mr. Beardmore harkened back to when the town was 
facing a very contentious time.  During that time, it was Lunenburg resident Mr. Rodgers who 
said that the voters at Town Meeting will ultimately make the right decision for Lunenburg.  
 
Mr. Menard requested of Mr. Jeffreys copies of the presentations he gave at the Finance 
Committee meeting to hold onto for reference, and reminded those in attendance that the 
presentations are now public documents.  
 
12. Items for Future Meetings 
 
13. Next Meetings November 16, 2021 at 6 p.m. at Lunenburg Middle High School, and Special 
Town Meeting at 7 p.m. on November 16, 2021. December 9, 2021 (Follow up on Chp 70, Green 
Communities Committee, ARPA funds) 
 
14. Adjourn At 9:54 p.m. Mr. Watters motioned to adjourn, Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously….[This happened really fast, and when I looked back at YouTube, the 
camera was on the Town Manager, so I’m really not sure who moved and/or seconded to 
adjourn] 
 
 