===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, July 28, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: In person: Acting Chairperson Chris Menard, Peter Beardmore, Tom Gray. Attending Remotely: Tom 
Balish, Jay Simeone 
 
Guests: School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement concerning the 
Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/y0HomxCWWZY 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: none 
 
4. Public Comment: none 
 
5. Chair Report: none 
 
6. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: none 
 
7. Reorganization/Liaison Assignments: The committee agreed on the positions discussed at the last 
meeting, and also decided to leave the liaison position for the School Committee open. Ms. 
Archambault said she would update the committee from time to time on pertinent matters, as well as 
send an agenda out to the Finance Committee Chairperson, who could then ask questions via email, 
and she would find answers to those questions. Ms. Archambault informed the committee that all 
documents discussed at School Committee meetings can be found on the schools’ website. Mr. Balish 
will continue to serve as liaison to police and fire, and the library. Mr. Gray will continue to serve as 
liaison to the land use departments, and added Green Communities Committee to his assignments. 
Mr. Watters, being a member of the Board of Health will continue to serve as finance committee 
liaison. Mr. Menard will serve as liaison to the Parks Commission. Council on Aging liaison remains 
open.  
 
8. FY23 Goals and Operating Principles: Mr. Balish made a few edits to the document, and the 
committee approved of the edits. Mr. Beardmore moved to approve the FY23 Goals and Operating 
Principles document. Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
9. Discuss ARPA Planning: The Select Board are slated to meet August 16, 2022 to discuss the town’s 
fiscal policies along with ARPA spending. According to Mr. Beardmore, members of the Capital 
Planning Committee have been invited to the meeting. Mr. Beardmore pointed out that finding 
contractors to do the work, regardless of what’s decided, will be challenging as all municipalities will 
be going out to bid for their ARPA projects. Mr. Beardmore opined that having a directional decision 
regarding the funds, and choosing shovel-ready projects may make the process more efficient. Mr. 
===PAGE 2===
Beardmore expressed his thoughts on spending the money on parks as it will serve the entire town. 
Mr. Menard added that other people have expressed interest in spending the money on sidewalks 
around the schools. Mr. Simeone agreed that infrastructure is a worthy expenditure, along with 
broadband access, and tree trimming along roadsides. Mr. Gray asked if there was any input from 
department heads in town. Mr. Beardmore added that the Town Manager has hired a consultant to 
conduct public outreach. Mr. Gray also suggested funds could be just as well spent on town buildings. 
ARPA fund expenses must be dedicated by December 31, 2024, and performance must be complete by 
December 31, 2026. 
 
10. Fiscal Policy Review: From a meeting with Select Board Chairperson Michael Ray Jeffries, Mr. 
Beardmore learned that the Select Board is looking for anticipated capital needs while reviewing the 
fiscal policy, and has invited the Capital Planning Committee to their workshop discussion. The finance 
committee will be asked for analysis after that discussion takes place. Mr. Menard added that wants 
and needs of the Municipal Design Committee should have an effect on fiscal policy review. Mr. 
Beardmore suggested Finance Committee members attend the Select Board workshop slated for 
August 16, 2022. 
 
11. Town Meeting Amendments to Capital Plan Article: The committee agreed write a bylaw that would 
allow removal of items on the capital plan on Annual Town Meeting floor. Mr. Menard opined the 
current process gives too much power to too few people for the amount of money being spent. Mr. 
Beardmore has requested Town Counsel to weigh in on changing the Town Meeting approach to the 
Capital Plan. Mr. Gray asked about the history of how the town got to the current process, and wished 
to avoid the same mistakes that were made in the past.  
 
12. Minutes: Mr. Beardmore motioned to approve the minutes from the July 21, 2022 meeting. Mr. Balish 
seconded. On vote, motion carried. (4-0-1) 
 
13. Committee Reports: Capital Planning Committee will meet August 3, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Passios will 
update the Finance Committee in person, or will contact Mr. Watters with updates from time to time.  
Parks Commission will hold a joint meeting with the Select Board August 2, 2022. 
Municipal Building Design to meet August 1, 2022. 
14. Public Comment: None 
 
15. Items for Future Meetings: New board member orientation 
 
16. Next Meetings August 18, August 25, 2022. 
 
17. Adjourn: At 7:55 p.m. Mr. Beardmore motioned to adjourn, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion 
carried.  
 
 