===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee     
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 27, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Jay Simeone, Tom Gray, Tom Balish 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux (remote), Town Accountant Karen Brochu (remote), 
Superintendent of Lunenburg Public Schools Dr. Kate Burnham, LPS Business Manager Michael Cassidy, 
School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault, School Committee member Peter Beardmore, DPW 
Director Bill Bernard, Capital Plan Committee member Dave Passios 
1. Call to Order: Mr. Watters called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
              This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/mlz6ac_xOY8 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements:  
 
4. Public Comment:  
 
5. Chair Report: Mr. Watters reminded all in attendance that Special Town Meeting is scheduled 
for Tuesday, November 15, at 7:00 p.m. in the Lunenburg Middle/High School. 
 
6. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Brochu informed the board that free cash and 
retained earnings have been certified by the Department of Revenue.  
a.  General free cash: $2,838,550  
b. Water enterprise retained earnings: $57,539 
c. Rubbish enterprise account: $134,318 
d. Sewer retained earnings: $2,322,978 
Ms. Brochu also reported her team is in the process of getting all the information necessary 
to certify the tax rate. 
Ms. Lemieux reported no figures have changed since her last briefing on the Special Town 
Meeting Warrant. Budget adjustments include: 
• Employee engagement survey: $10,000  
• Assessor’s administration: $45,000 
• APDC budget expense line: $5,000 
• DPW backfill for medical leave: $13,000 
• Total budget adjustment: $73,000 

===PAGE 2===
Ms. Lemieux reported she is waiting on New Growth numbers, and anticipates a surplus which could 
be used for Marshall Park, or the Special Purpose Stabilization account. 
7. Conversation with DPW Director Bill Bernard: Mr. Bernard informed the committee that the 
biggest issue the DPW currently faces is their fleet of trucks. There are four trucks used for snow 
removal currently out of service, and the department is still waiting on trucks ordered in FY22, 
and FY23, and doesn’t expect to see them for at least a year. Mr. Bernard will continue to seek 
funding from the capital plan to complete the fleet at about $525,000 per year to fund those 
trucks and other equipment.  
 
Mr. Bernard will continue on with the pavement management plan, which is currently being 
updated. The town’s roads appear to be in good shape, and the new plan should focus on crack 
sealing.  As far as sidewalks are concerned, Mr. Bernard reported that the town currently has 
ten miles of sidewalk, and he is working on a five-year plan to address sidewalk repairs to bring 
those up to date. Mr. Bernard estimates sidewalk repair will cost $400,000. 
 
Mr. Bernard also reported that the town’s sewer pump stations are nearing the end of their lives 
at 25 years. He estimates $300,000 to replace the stations and incorporate SCADA to monitor 
the new stations.  
 
Mr. Bernard also reported the DPW is keeping up with storm water regulations despite not 
having a full crew. The storm water task force is looking to form a storm water utility in order to 
address mandates.   
 
The DPW will be expanding the North Cemetery, which will need to be surveyed and plotted. 
 
Mr. Bernard also reported he’s received several calls from residents regarding tree trimming and 
removal. 
 
DPW ten-year planning includes addressing the 25 bridges and culverts in town regarding 
inspection and repairs. Mr. Bernard will seek grant funding for repairs. Drainage pipes will also 
need replacing.  
 
Mr. Balish asked about staffing at the DPW. Mr. Bernard said the heavy equipment operator 
position has been open since before he started working for the town.  Several applicants either 
don’t have the licensure required, or are seeking a higher wage than what the town currently 
offers.  
 
8. Conversation with School Department:  
a. FY23 Capital Projects Update: Dr. Burnham reported that the cost of the AC project at 
the primary school for which $230,000 was appropriated was largely underestimated. 
The school department is looking at alternative ways to cool the school in the warmer 
months.  
 
b. FY24 Capital Projects Requests:  
===PAGE 3===
1. Safety Window Film Districtwide $160,000 
2. Exterior Door Replacement at Turkey Hill Elementary School (THES) $160,000 
3. Access and Security upgrades at the primary school and THES $83,500, $131,000 
4. Upgrade Fire Alarm system at THES $287,000 
5. Athletic Complex feasibility study $50,000 
6. New pickup truck $68,000 
 
 
c. 10-Year Capital Projects Plan: Over the next ten years, the primary school seeks 
$618,500 in capital spending. Turkey Hill Elementary School needs include $15,056,822 
in capital requests, which assumes contributions from the Massachusetts School 
Building Authority (MSBA), and possibly $2,200,000 for the MS/HS to upgrade the turf 
field, walls, and concession stand.  
Over the next ten years district-wide, the schools plan to spend $343,923 on safety film 
for windows, as well as a replacement mower, 2 pickup trucks, plows, and a passenger 
van. 
d. 5-Year Staffing Plan: Dr. Burnham reported that the school department needs are 
constantly changing depending on the student body. Not all needs can be addressed 
due to lack of funding, but the school department prioritizes, and presents the staffing 
plan knowing there is some grant funding available to certain departments within the 
schools.  
e. ESSER Funded Positions: The school department is tracking data to see which positions 
will need to be eliminated as Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief 
(ESSER) funding runs out in 2024. Dr. Burnham assured the committee that the school 
department is well aware that municipal funding is not available to cover the positions 
made possible by ESSER funding.  
f. ARPA Funding: Dr. Burnham reported the school department requested funding for 
sidewalks leading toward the elementary and middle/high schools.  
g. Strategy for Continuous Improvement: Implemented in 2019, a living document that 
focuses on teaching and learning, climate and culture, equity, access, and achievement, 
and communications and operations.  
h. Budget Presentation Workshop: The school department presents their budget at the 
second January meeting of the School Committee. There is then a question and answer 
period on the budget at the first School Committee meeting in February. Dr. Burnham 
reported that oftentimes health insurance information becomes available in February, 
which tends to impact the budget plan, and another question and answer period is 
offered at the first March meeting of the School Committee. A public hearing on the 
final budget is slated for the second March meeting of the School Committee, where the 
School Committee usually approves the budget, which is then presented to the Finance 
Committee. Dr. Burnham plans to produce a recorded presentation of informational 
material for people to view on their own time. Mr. Beardmore added that he has 
discussed the Finance Committee’s preferences when it comes to the school 
department’s budget presentation, and that though focusing on the numbers is a good 
goal, there are challenges up ahead that will demand more qualitative discussion over 
quantitative.  
===PAGE 4===
 
 
9. Minutes: To be reviewed at next meeting. 
 
10. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their liaison assignments.  
 
11. Public Comment: Mr. Simeone reminded those in attendance that real estate taxes are due 
November 1. 
 
Mr. Beardmore informed the committee that the Select Board voted to not recommend 
approval of the Finance Committee’s warrant article regarding the town’s capital plan. Mr. 
Beardmore, who wrote the bylaw, is planning to give a five to ten minute presentation 
explaining the ideas behind the proposed bylaw at Special Town Meeting.  
 
Mr. Watters announced that there are two vacancies on the Finance Committee. 
 
12. Items for Future Meetings: No particular topics at this time 
 
13. Next Meetings:  November 10, 2022 
 
14. Adjourn: At 8:55 p.m., Mr. Simeone motioned to adjourn, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
 