===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 17, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Peter Beardmore, Jay Simeone, Evan Watters, Tom Balish, Tom Gray, Chris Menard 
via Zoom, Dave Passios via Zoom (for last part of meeting) 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, School Committee Chair Carol Archambault. 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/Qx7EgjovsNE 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: none 
 
4. Public Comment: none 
 
5. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Lemieux gave the committee an update on what 
she discussed with the Select Board at their meeting earlier in the week. Electricity and natural 
gas contracts are to expire on November 30, 2022. The town will solicit bids in spring. Ms. 
Lemieux also informed the board that the Meadow Woods trailer park, which has been in 
receivership for many years, will begin paying back taxes at $100,000 per year until all back 
taxes are paid off. Close to $1 million is owed. The annual $100,000 will go to free cash.  
 
6. Discussion on ARPA presentation at Select Board meeting on Feb 1, 2022: Ms. Lemieux 
explained that Lunenburg’s $3 million share of ARPA funds falls under the “lost revenue” 
category, and the Select Board will decide how the funds are allocated. Consultants from Capital 
Strategic Solutions will hold public outreach meetings to get the community’s input on how 
funds should be spent. Ms. Lemieux highlighted 30 School St., Marshall Park, and costs related 
to the latest Vertex study on town buildings as possible projects to be funded with ARPA funds. 
Ms. Lemieux also informed the committee that several suggested projects may also be funded 
by alternative sources, and that much research will be done before the decision is made to 
spend the money. All possible projects will be evaluated and prioritized.  
Mr. Beardmore expressed his concern about the T.C. Passios building project, Town Hall and 
Ritter building, as well as the Turkey Hill Elementary school, and opined the town must be very 
cautious about borrowing for those projects.  
Mr. Gray asked about the timeline regarding the funds. The town will have until 2024 to commit 
to how the funds will be spent, said funds must be spent by 2026. 
===PAGE 2===
7. Town Managers Budget Recommendation Presentation: Ms. Lemieux’s FY2023 budget 
presentation can be found in the Town Manager’s office at Town Hall.   
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/sites/default/files/field/files-
docs/fy_2023_line_item_detail_budget.pdf 
 
In her presentation, Ms. Lemieux explained that the FY2023 Target Budget includes revenues for 
property taxes included adding 2 ½ percent to the previous year’s levy, $213,523 for New 
Growth, and debt exclusion amounts. State Aid was level funded based on FY22 State Aid figures 
approved in July of last year. Local receipts included a $50,000 increase over last fiscal year’s 
estimate for Motor Vehicle Excise tax, but level funded other receipts. 
FY2023 revenue estimates come out to $47,488,938, built by 65 percent property tax, 22 
percent State Aid, 6 percent local receipts, and 7 percent from available funds. 
Ms. Lemieux highlighted that State Aid is much greater than indicated in FY2022, that the 
estimate for local receipts remains conservative, and that available funds are similar to FY2022. 
The Town Manager’s FY2023 Preliminary Budget will fund the town’s government, including 
requests for a part time tech support position, a part time clerical position for Conservation, 
wages for Registration Workers, additional hours for the Assistant Tax Collector and increases in 
software, hardware, website, and internet costs. The budget also includes spending on the 
police and fire departments, DPW, Veterans Service Officer, library, which will be opening on 
Fridays, the Council on Aging, a 10.32 percent increase for Worcester Regional Retirement, a 
$124,341 increase to health insurance, a 3.11 percent increase to the schools, a 21 percent 
increase to the Monty Tech, and a reduction by $42,000 in the Solid Waste Recycling Program.  
FY2023 preliminary budget expenditures total $43,202,314. Total appropriation for debt service 
is $4,497,723. 
The Town Manager’s preliminary budget includes over $1 million in free cash to spend on 
financial warrant articles, increase funding for FY23 Capital Plan, can be used on FY22 Snow and 
Ice Deficit, or deposited into stabilization. Ms. Lemieux recommends leaving a portion of these 
funds to fall to next year’s free cash.  
Mr. Beardmore asked whether the $50,000 being put toward roads every year was necessary as 
the town has been taking care of its roads, and opined they aren’t in bad shape. Ms. Lemieux 
reminded the board that an agreement was made to put away $50,000 per year until the 
pavement management fund reaches $1 million, and that money is being expended every year 
to repair the town’s roads. Mr. Watters added that more attention should also be paid to storm 
water runoff. Ms. Lemieux responded that the Storm Water Task Force is working toward 
creating its own enterprise fund.  
Mr. Beardmore expressed that he’d like to hear more discussion on the new Facilities Director 
position. Mr. Menard asked whether buildings on park properties would fall under facilities, or 
DPW.  
Mr. Passios asked about the increase in health insurance and whether the town would use the 
money in the health insurance stabilization fund. Ms. Lemieux said that the fund was not 
included in the preliminary budget, and the money would be used for future increases.  
 
8. Annual Town Meeting Warrant Updates: Warrant Articles are due by February 21, 2022. 
===PAGE 3===
 Mr. Menard asked whether there would be any articles where dollar amounts would not be 
known by the time the committee is required to hold a public hearing. Ms. Lemieux replied that 
all warrant articles should have all necessary information by deadline. 
9. Committee Assignments: Since the committee decided to choose Mr. Beardmore to serve on 
the new Municipal Building Design Committee, Mr. Watters volunteered to serve as liaison to 
the school committee for the rest of the fiscal year. Mr. Menard moved to appoint Mr. Watters 
as liaison to the school committee for the remainder of FY2022. Mr. Simeone seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously.  
  
10. Minutes: Mr. Balish moved to accept the minutes from the January 13, and January 27, 2022 
meetings. Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carries. 6-0-1 
 
11. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective liaison 
assignments. 
 
12. Public Comment none 
 
13. Items for Future Meetings Board of Health will be invited to come before the committee to talk 
about their requested appropriation. 
 
14. Next Meetings Feb. 24 meeting will be all remote. 
 
15. Adjourn Mr. Watters motioned to adjourn, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carries 
unanimously.  
 
 