===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 29, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Peter Beardmore, Tom Gray 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Town Accountant Karen Brochu, School Committee Chairperson Carol 
Archambault 
 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Watters called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and read a statement concerning the Open Meeting Law, 
and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/7BREOgf6gBI 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: The annual Association of Town Finance Committees (ATFC) will take place November 5, 2022 
in Sharon, Mass.  
 
4. Public Comment:  
5. Chair Report: Mr. Watters is planning to attend the annual meeting of the ATFC. 
 
6. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Brochu reported that she met with David Eisenthal the Town’s 
financial advisor, and he will draw up some scenarios requested by the Finance Committee, and is willing to 
attend a future meeting to discuss any questions the committee may have. 
Ms. Lemieux reported that the streetlights are now owned by the town, and the DPW should be contacted if 
there are any issues with the lights.  
The Select Board will discuss ARPA requests at their October 4, 2022 meeting.  
The Capital Planning Committee will meet October 17, 2022 to discuss department head requests.  
The town will begin to address the fraud risk assessment pointed out in the last audit. Department heads will be 
filling out forms distributed by the fraud risk assessment team. A report will be compiled based on the answers, 
risks will be identified, and strategies will then be implemented.  
 
7. Review Draft of Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
 
A. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, all sums of 
money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2023 Budget, under Article 8 of the May 7, 
2022 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.  
 Ms. Lemieux does not have a full assessment of amendments. The APDC has requested funds for an 
operational budget, and funds will be needed for the cyclical inspections for the assessor’s office. Ms. 
Lemieux is waiting for new growth numbers to come in before she makes an assessment. Mr. Beardmore 
added that the way the calendar is set up, the Finance Committee will need to make a recommendation on 
the articles at the next Finance Committee meeting, which will be a public hearing.  
Approved by Finance Committee at 
November 10, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 
B. Prior year expenses 
 Ms. Lemieux reported there are two outstanding bills of nominal amounts. 
C. FY 23, FY 24, and FY 25 Lunenburg Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2022–June 30, 2025 
with the New England Police Benevolent Association Local 353. 
 Ms. Lemieux reported that a Memorandum of Agreement has been signed with the police union, and there 
is no dollar amount known at this time. She hopes Select Board will discuss the matter at their Oct. 11, 2022 
meeting. 
D. Special Stabilization Fund 
 Mr. Beardmore opined that the stabilization article should come after other monied articles. Ms. Lemieux 
said the order is not final as this is only a draft. 
E. Retirement credit for reserve and on-call police officers and firefighters after five years of working for the Town of 
Lunenburg. 
 Ms. Lemieux commented that it is unknown whether this article will have a financial impact. More 
information will be available at a future meeting. Mr. Menard asked for an easier to read version of the law 
being quoted in the article. Mr. Beardmore asked whether the town has an option to opt out, considering 
it’s Mass. General Law. Ms. Lemieux responded the Firefighter Lt. Christos Lekaditis would have more 
information at an upcoming meeting of the Select Board.  
F. Final engineering for Marshall Park 
 Dollar amount still unknown 
 ARPA funds for engineering is slated for request 
G. Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund 
 Standard sewer article (money rec’d in prior fiscal year to be deposited in the stabilization fund 
H. Sewer Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund 
 Monies received from prior year to go to I/I stabilization fund 
I.  Primary School HVAC project 
 Unknown dollar amount (with less than two weeks to find the number) Free Cash could be a funding 
source, but has not been certified, and is typically not appropriated at a Fall Town Meeting, according to 
Ms. Brochu. Ms. Lemieux pointed out that articles are on the warrant, but could come off the warrant, 
or not need a vote at Town Meeting.  
 Timing of project could affect the timing of the funding 
J. Salary Admin Plan positions 
 Positions already funded 
 K. Planning Board Article regarding use table – no financial impact 
 L. Override APDC repair/alteration for Ritter Building 
 Denial of certificate based on windows at Ritter Building. APDC says to repair and maintain storm 
windows, position of Select Board is that energy efficiencies are a cost to the town.  A lot more to be 
discussed between now and Town Meeting. Mr. Beardmore asked if the town knows the cost of new 
windows, or what heating costs are, or what could be saved with new windows.  
M. Changing code for APDC dealing with process and review –no financial impact 
 Committee members commented on amount of text in article, and whether it could be edited to 
highlight just the changes. 
===PAGE 3===
N. Fin Com bylaw on amending capital appropriations – Mr. Beardmore opined this article should be moved up in order 
on the warrant, and should be placed before zoning issues. Mr. Beardmore suggested Mr. Watters make the motion to 
approve on Town Meeting floor. Ms. Lemieux expects the Select Board to read the motion and turn it over to the 
Finance Committee. 
O. Zoning map amendment for 199 Massachusetts Ave. – no financial impact 
 Public hearing by Planning Board October 24, 2022 
P. Change of Town Meeting and Town Elections from May to April (citizen’s petition) – no financial impact, though will 
make budget process challenging if approved. Unknown whether date of Town Meeting would change with next 
scheduled Annual Town Meeting.  
Public Hearing for Warrant scheduled for October 13, 2022. Mr. Watters suggested committee members tune in to 
upcoming Select Board meetings as they review the warrant articles.  
7. Pre-budget season workshop: Mr. Watters has scheduled the Board of Assessors, new DPW Director, and the 
Superintendent of Schools to come before the committee to discuss their ideas and plans, so the department heads can 
focus on their actual budgets during their allotted presentation time. Mr. Watters also suggested cutting some 
department presentations. Mr. Menard added that presentations should identify changes, and describe the financial 
impact of those changes, and also suggested making information available prior to presentations if possible.  
8. Minutes none to review 
9. Committee Reports Committee members updated each other on respective liaison assignments.  
10. Public Comment: Mr. Beardmore expressed that serving on the Finance Committee has been a rewarding 
experience, and pointed out that it has brought him closer to people. Mr. Beardmore thanked everyone who supported 
him as a Finance Committee member, from past members, to current members, department heads, the Town Manager, 
Finance Director, the Town Clerk’s office who helped him get agendas and minutes posted, as well as those who work 
and volunteer on Lunenburg’s public access channel, as well as the Select Board, and School Committee members who 
have welcomed him as a new member on the School Committee.  
 
Mr. Watters and Mr. Menard thanked Mr. Beardmore for his service to the town, and both agreed he’ll make a great 
addition to the school committee. Mr. Simeone and Mr. Gray also thanked Mr. Beardmore for his service, and said they 
enjoyed working with him.  
 
11. Items for Future Meetings Financial Advisor’s scenarios 
 
 12. Next Meetings 10/13 public hearing, 10/27, 11/10, 11/15 (Special Town Meeting) 
13. Adjourn At 8:51 p.m. Mr. Beardmore motioned to adjourn, Mr. Menard seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
 
 