===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, January 26, 2023 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Tom Balish, Tom Gray, Caesar Nuzzolo, Jay Simeone (remote) 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School Committee Carol 
Archambault, School Committee and Capital Planning Committee member Peter Beardmore 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Watters called the meeting to order at 7p.m. and read a statement concerning the 
Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/f3mPfSY148c 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: none 
 
4. Public Comment: none 
 
5. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: none 
 
6. Capital Plan Presentation: Ms. Lemieux explained the Capital Planning Process, and also 
explained that without knowing the amount of money needed to fund abatements, she has 
reduced FY24 Capital Plan requests from 29 items to 6. The $2,860,000 in free cash, which 
would normally fund capital plan requests, will be reserved to fund abatements. The Capital 
Plan will use $986,000 out of the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund to purchase the very much 
needed ambulance for the fire department, and a pair of dump trucks for the DPW. Also 
included on the Capital Plan are security upgrades for the schools, which will be funded by 
unexpended capital and tax revenue. Ms. Lemieux also explained that the capital plan amount 
can be amended as more information regarding abatements is learned. Ms. Lemieux will 
continue to re-evaluate the FY24 Capital Plan from now until Town Meeting, and will look to 
appropriate funds as they become available. Ms. Lemieux also pointed out that decisions made 
on municipal buildings moving forward will have critical impact on items included on the plan in 
the future. Ms. Lemieux also listed 10-year capital plan requests. 
Mr. Watters expressed his concern over the fire alarm system at the elementary school not 
being on the FY24 Capital Plan. Mr. Gray agreed there should at least be a contingency plan if 
the system does fail at the school.  
7. Tax Abatement/Assessment Discussion: Mr. Watters explained that several Lunenburg 
residents owning waterfront property received real estate tax bills that are much higher than 
anticipated. The Select Board has opened an investigation to find how waterfront property taxes 
could suddenly rise so high. Mr. Watters explained that the Finance Committee does not play a 
Unanimously approved by Finance 
Committee at February 16, 2023 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
role in property taxes, however their duties will be impacted nonetheless. The town’s overlay 
account will probably need to be increased at Town Meeting in order to cover abatements. 
Without knowing the amount needed for the overlay, how to decide on other financial articles 
could pose a challenge. Mr. Watters suggested members of the committee, and the public to go 
to the Mass.gov website and look at Division of Local Services (DLS) data, to learn more about 
property values and assessments.  
 
8. MMA Trade Show Re-Cap: Mr. Watters attended the tradeshow, and learned about economic 
and fiscal outlook, and heard recently elected Governor Maura Healy talk about Chapter 70 
funding, Chapter 90 funding, housing, and economic development priorities. Governor Healy 
aims to fully fund the circuit breaker, and take a closer look at how small towns are treated 
regarding Chapter 70 funds. Mr. Watters will write up a report on the show and distribute it 
amongst committee members. 
  
9. Minutes: Mr. Balish motioned to approve the minutes from the January 12, 2023 meeting, Mr. 
Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 4-0-1 (Mr. Simeone abstained).  
 
10. Committee Reports Committee members updated each other on their respective liaison 
assignments.  
 
11. Public Comment: Mr. Beardmore made clear he was commenting as a resident and not 
representing any board. Mr. Beardmore expressed his concern over how the latest property 
value assessments will affect the town in its entirety. Mr. Beardmore is also concerned that 
there won’t be enough time to process all the information in order to have an effective 
discussion to make the right decisions at Annual Town Meeting. Mr. Beardmore advised the 
committee to ask the Town Manager for varying scenarios regarding the budget. Mr. Beardmore 
also asked the committee to give a presentation on Proposition 2 ½, and its effect on total levy, 
and how that involves the current assessment/abatement situation.  
 
12. Next Meetings: February 9, February 16 –Preliminary Budget Presentation, February 23 –COA, 
Land Use, Library presentations. 
 
13. Adjourn At 8:20 p.m. Mr. Simeone motioned to adjourn, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
 