===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
July 27, 2023 
Members Present: School Committee Member Brian Lehtinen, Town Manager Heather Lemieux, 
Vice Chair Chris Menard, Board Member Jean Russell, Board Member Jay Simeone, Chair Evan 
Watters. 
1. Call to order 
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
The Finance Committee has a new member, Jean Russell. Evan Watters reiterates 
that there are still open positions available to join the committee. 
4. Public comment 
No public comment. 
5. Town manager/Finance report 
Heather Lemieux discusses current bid openings. The need for guardrail repair 
services bid of 80,886 dollars was awarded to Premier Fence. Funding from the 
Mass DOT Winter Recovery Assistance Program was used for this project. A bid 
from Powell Construction in the amount of 86,913 dollars was received for the 
Page Street culvert. A proposal from Vision regarding the 5-year reassessing 
evaluation was received with an estimated cost of 112,000 dollars. The Roadway 
Maintenance Fog Ceiling bid is due this coming week. The bids for snowplow, 
sewer operations, and maintenance bids are currently out and due by August 7. 
The road materials for DPW are being put out to bid soon. 
The EPA for administrative paperwork and removal of materials and tanks are 
currently being worked on for the 925 Mass Ave project. An application for a 
grant through Mass Development for Real Estate Technical Assistance Program 
has been submitted and a response is expected by the fall. 
The Senior Center Patio Project is still on schedule with an anticipated 
completion date in September. 
The ADA Ramp drawing has been completed by the architect. This will be sent 
out to the APD for review. 
Fiber is being installed at the Town Hall by Comcast. There is an order for new 
phone systems for the Town Hall, Ritter building, Library, Lunenburg Adult 
Activity Center, and DPW. This transition will take place over the coming months. 
The CivicPlus website's anticipated live date is in September and training will be 
completed prior to the launch.  
6. New business 
a. Committee reorganization  
===PAGE 2===
The committee is currently operating without a clerk and there have been no 
applicants for administrative positions. Evan Watters wants to wait until the next 
meeting when additional members will be available to discuss reorganization.  
b. Liaison reorganization 
Committee members act as a liaison between the Finance Committee and other 
committees. Jean Russell agrees to take on the Facilities Committee. The group 
agrees to discuss this at the next meeting so Evan Watters can bring a list of 
liaisons and additional members will be present. 
c. Past meeting minutes plan 5/25, 6/8, 6/22 
There is no clerk for this committee, so the minutes have not been recorded for 
the above-referenced dates. Karen Menard from the Parks Commission agrees to 
help and complete the meeting minutes. 
7. Old business 
a. Tax assessment/abatement update 
The town manager was not currently on the Zoom meeting so there are 
no updates.  
The last update Evan Watters is aware of regarding the tax bills is that 
they were going to be sent out.  Chris Menard believes that checks were 
being mailed out. 
8. Committee Reports 
Chris Menard states that the Parks Commission submitted a 500,000 dollar grant 
for Marshall Park.  
Brian Lehtinen from the School Committee has no update as they have not had a 
meeting since the prior meeting. 
Evan Watters states that none of the committees he oversees has met since the 
initial kick-off meeting.  
9. Topics for Future Meetings 
For future meetings, there will be a look back at the committee policies. 
10. Public comment 
No public comment. 
Committee Comment relating to the Town Hall project, AC project, and TC 
Passios roof repair. Chris Menard questions if there are any fiscal policies related 
to capital money. Evan Watters believes this is already in place because capital 
planning goes to town meetings and reports what has changed and if it still falls 
in scope. Chris Menard believes there should be a written policy for the future 
and thinks that the Select Board and School Committee should meet. Jay 
Simeone believes the scope of work falls under Chapter 30B. Heather Lemieux 
states the town hall project is a different scenario than the AC project. The scoop 
to how it was described the work to be done had changed. What was presented 
at the town meeting was overall different. The roof, chimneys, and basement 
===PAGE 3===
windows have not changed but phased in for priority. Chris Menard questions 
whether rephasing means everything covered in the project will still be 
addressed. Heather Lemieux confirms that is accurate and there is no actual 
policy but was more of a recommendation based on past projects. Chris Menard 
will reach out to the Select Board and additional groups for input. 
11. Upcoming Meeting: 
a. August 24, September 14, September 28 
12. Adjourn 
Motion by Chris Menard to adjourn, seconded by Jay Simeone. 
The meeting adjourned at 7:47 PM. 
 