===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 16, 2023 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters (arrived late), Vice-Chair Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Tom Gray, Tom Balish, Caesar 
Nuzzolo  
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg residents John Fortune, and Joanna Bilotta 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Menard called the meeting to order at 7p.m. and read a statement concerning the Open Meeting 
Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/G_gNfRE8my4 
2. Public Comment: none 
 
3. Town Manager Preliminary Budget Presentation: In her presentation, Ms. Lemieux explained that the FY2024 
Target Budget includes revenues for property taxes included adding 2 ½ percent to the previous year’s levy, 
$200,000 for New Growth, and debt exclusion amounts. State Aid was level funded based on FY23 State Aid 
figures approved in July of last year. Local receipts included a $50,000 increase over last fiscal year’s estimate for 
Motor Vehicle Excise tax, but level funded other receipts.  
 
Projected Revenues totaling $47,321,389 for FY24 include: $31,422,519 in property tax (66%), $10, 500,128 in 
State Aid (22%), $3,160,153 in Local Receipts (7%), and $2,238,588 in other available funds (5%). 
For Expenditures, Ms. Lemieux used FY23 amounts regarding cherry sheet offsets, state and county charges, and 
choice/charter assessments. FY24 will use stabilization funds to offset the 8.5 percent increase in health 
insurance, as well as a 5 percent rate increase for retirees. Expenditures also include an additional $50,000 for 
pavement management, known principal and interest debt payments for FY24, a 5 percent increase for general 
insurances for the police and fire departments, a 13.55 percent increase for Worcester County Retirement, and 
a 2.5 percent increase for Lunenburg Public Schools and Monty Tech. Unknown expenditures for the Overlay 
Account, which covers abatements, will affect how certified free cash is spent for FY24. More information on 
expenditures as follows:  
Unanimously Approved by Finance 
Committee at February 23, 2023 
meeting. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
 
4. Tax Abatement/Assessment Discussion: Mr. Menard explained that the finance committee is the only 
legislative body in town, and its job is to advise Town Meeting on the budget. Mr. Fortune informed the 
committee that those with waterfront property have formed the Lunenburg Lakes Action Committee, and 
around 420 people have filed abatements after the real estate tax bills went out. Mr. Fortune opined that if no 
mistake has been made by the assessor’s office, then the people with waterfront property have been singled out 
as their property values have gone up 77 percent on average, while other properties in town have gone down, 
or only risen incrementally. Mr. Fortune explained that no one foresees the tax rate going down in FY24, and 
property owners will have to file for abatements again. Mr. Fortune added that if a clerical error has been made 
by the Board of Assessors, they can admit the error, and go to the Department of Revenue to have that error 
corrected. Ms. Bilotta added that she has spoken with four other assessors in the area, and all explained that 
when property values increase, taxes should increase incrementall. Ms. Bilotta talked about the people who 
have been living in town for several years, and are now on a fixed income, and asked how they’re supposed to 
afford a 135 percent increase. Ms. Bilotta also added that all who’ve filed abatements could attend Town 
Meeting and vote no on all the articles. Mr. Menard urged the Lakes Action Committee to send any ideas or 
questions to the Finance Committee and Select Board to discuss with the state delegation at the March 7 
meeting.  
 
5. State Representative Meeting Preparation: Topics raised include: funding formulas, such as Chapter 70, and 
vocational schools, and real estate appraisal. Mr. Watters suggested sending questions out to the delegation 
before the meeting so they can prepare responses.  
 
6. Minutes: Mr. Watters motioned to approve the minutes from the January 26, 2023 meeting. Mr. Nuzzolo 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
7. Future Meetings: March 30 Public Hearing on FY2024 budget.  
 
8. Public Comment: 
 
a. Board Comment:  Mr. Gray commented that he hopes 420 people don’t show up to Town Meeting to 
vote everything down, and suggested that taking that kind of action won’t solve any problems. 

===PAGE 4===
 
9. Upcoming Meetings: 2/23: COA, Land Use, and Library budget presentations. 3/2 IT, and Police Department, 3/7 
Joint meeting with Select Board and School Committee with state delegation, 3/9 DPW and Facilities 
Department.  
 
10. Adjourn At 8:24 p.m., Mr. Balish motioned to adjourn, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
 
 