===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, March 23, 2023 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and remote via Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Vice-Chairperson Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Tom Balish, Caesar Nuzzolo 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Finance Director Karen Brochu, DPW Director Bill Bernard, Fire Department 
Chief Patrick Sullivan, PACC Chairperson Steve Walker, PACC Director Jo McLaughlin 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Watters called the meeting to order at 7p.m. and read a statement concerning the Open Meeting 
Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/t9Tp3u7OWqk 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: none 
 
4. New Business: 
 
a. Public Access Budget Presentation: PACC anticipates $211,670 of income from Comcast, and annual 
operations will not exceed that income. Money from Comcast can only be spent on the PACC. Any 
surplus is put into the PACC’s enterprise fund, which will be built up to $1,009,205.91 by the end of 
FY23. The committee is planning to purchase new equipment, and build a proper studio with that 
money. 
 
Mr. Walker explained that there is currently a bill proposed (HD.74, S.34) on the state level to address 
the issue of people using streaming services over cable.  
 
b. Sewer Department Budget: Mr. Bernard explained that the sewer commission would need to transfer 
$427,718 out of retained earnings for the FY24 operating budget due to the cost of upgrading pump 
stations, debt service to Fitchburg and Leominster, and capital expenses.  
Mr. Menard asked about the assistant to the sewer business manager who was added onto the payroll 
last year. Mr. Bernard explained that the sewer business manager had requested an assistant for years, 
and it’s been determined the position is still needed.  
Approved by Finance Committee at 
April 20, 2023 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
$590,000 in ARPA funds have been requested for manholes, sewer pump station upgrades, and a sewer 
mobile generator.  
The sewer commission is also committed to reducing storm water inflow and infiltration into the sewer 
system in order to reduce costs.  
 
 
 
 
c. Fire Department Budget: Chief Sullivan highlighted increases in hydrant rental, IT support, software and 
hardware, vehicle maintenance, fuel, contractual raises, and EMS supplies for the FY24 budget. The 
department will receive grant funding for hoses and nozzles, as well as a grant to replace helmets, and 
to supply senior citizens with sand for their walkways in winter, and check or replace smoke detectors. 
Chief Sullivan also mentioned increasing billing rates for paramedic care. Estimated costs as follows: 
 EMS Maintenance: $9,000 
 IT Software: $9,000 
 IT Hardware: $10,000 
 EMS Supplies: $3,000 
 Hydrant Maintenance: $1,806 

===PAGE 3===
 Vehicle Maintenance: $3,000  
 
 
d. Other Monied Articles: Ms. Lemieux briefly went over the draft of warrant articles for Annual Town 
Meeting. Those sponsoring the articles will attend the next meeting to give further explanation. 
 
 
5. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: none 
 
6. Old Business:  
 
a. Town Meeting Finance Committee Report: Mr. Watters is working on the report. 
b. Capital Plan: No discussion 
c. Tax Assessment/Abatement Discussion: No discussion 
 
7. Committee Reports No reports 
 
8. Public Comment None 
 
9. Items for Future Meetings: Trust funds, investment 
 
10. Next Meetings  
a. March 30 –Public Hearing 
b. April 6 – Public Hearing (if needed) 
c. April 13 –Public Hearing (if needed) 
 
11. Adjourn At 9:28 p.m. Mr. Menard motioned to Adjourn. Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote, motion carried. 
 
 