===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
March 20, 2024 
 
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member 
Dave Passios, Board Member Jay Simeone 
 
Absent Members: Board Member Jean Russell and Clerk Tiffaney Tavares 
 
1. Call to Order 
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements 
Evan Watter states Tiffaney Tavares and Jean Russell are absent for the meeting. 
 
4. Public Comment 
Dave Passios states at the Select Board meeting last night it was announced that it was a 
member of the Finance Committee had submitted a citizen’s petition in regard to the 
override for the town side of the budget. Dave Passios is concerned that it’s connected to 
this committee, and it was submitted with no signature after the cutoff date. Dave Passios 
believes all members know that they need to be careful as to what the committees’ actions 
are and what they are being construed as.  
5. Town Manager Report 
There are several bids out right now include: 
- The Flat Hill Culvert Project bid is due March 27th. 
- Cleaning services for the town buildings is due April 4th. 
- A proposal for data collection services for the assessing department for cyclical 
inspection is due April 8th.  
 
4 response requests were received for the qualifications for the owner’s project manager 
services for Marshal Park. The Parks Commission is currently reviewing. 
 
Effective November 30th of 2025 an updated natural gas contract will go into effect. The rate 
for the town and school is $5.66 and it’s a locked in rate for 3 years. This is a raise 
compared to the current rate of $4.39. 
 
The town is approaching the end of the 3-year contract with El Harvey for solid waste and 
recycling removal. There was a meeting to negotiate and extend the contract.  
Unfortunately, to extend that contract, there would be a 70% increase. The original bid 
project was based on an 80-hour work week in labor but it’s taking El Harvey 120 hours a 
week to do all of the roots.  For them to make a profit they would have to purchase new 
trucks, thus increasing costs. The ongoing approach is to put a bid out immediately to see 
what we get for proposals. Also, will be working with El Harvey on a cart toter system.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Jay Simeone asks if El Harvey disposes of the town trash. Heather Lemieux confirms. Jay 
Simeone asks if bidding for the town and residents could be separated. Heather Lemieux 
states there is an itemized list in the bid package and then the town is decreasing the size 
of 2 containers at a town building. Jay Simeone then asks if there has been a change in the 
amount of disposal bags being sold. Heather Lemieux states it has remained consistent. 
 
6. Finance Director Report 
This topic was skipped for this meeting. 
7. New Business 
a. Monty Tech FY25 Budget Presentation 
The Superintendent-Director Tom Browne and Human Resources/Business Manager 
Tammy Crockett presented the budget. 
 
Monty Tech actively seeks out grants and opportunities to get funds into the building to 
support the students.  For FY 24 Monty Tech received 1.4 million in grants.  
 
The Kenneth Donley workforce grant was received. The $500,000 was added as a 
contribution towards installing 2 spray booths. 
 
A $25,000 grant was received specifically for the auto body department. 
 
All individual shops are actively applying for grants. 
 
Perkins funds were received and used for workforce training. This $298,000 was used on 
industry recognized credentials. 
 
Monty Tech has partnered with CAPS Collaboration in Westminster and the Arc in 
Fitchburg. Students from both programs are going to be trained in 4 different areas. This 
includes 7 weeks of technical skill training, 1 week of professional skills, and 2 weeks of 
paid internship. 
 
Last year Monty Tech was identified by Mass Save as one of the largest climate leaders. 
This program trains students in terms of how to address energy efficiency when they go into 
the workforce. 
 
FY 25 Foundation Budget 
 
The Foundation enrollment includes 1476 students who live in one of the 18 communities.  
Total foundation budget was $29,900,307 which then gets divided by the foundation 
enrollment equaling $2,258 per pupal. 
 
A total of $18,318,704 was received from Chapter 70 funding. 
 
The amount of aid for FY 25 is $18,257,075 and this year is considered to be a hold 
harmless district.  
 
The State is giving a minimum aid of 30 per pupil so that’s an additional $44,280 in 
additional chapter 78. 
 
===PAGE 3===
The required net school spending is $30,011,216. This is the minimum spending every 
school district must spend not including debt services, capital transportation, meals.  
There is a burden of $525,000 budgeted increase that falls on the communities.  
 
Evan Watters questions how the district contribution number is calculated. Tammy 
Crockett states the number is based on towns property value, wealth. This is then 
multiplied by the municipal revenue growth factors and that equals the required district 
contribution. An additional factor is how many kids there are in Lunenburg. 
 
The transportation cost for 30 buses equals $2,516,010. Currently they are in year 2 of their 
contract and consist of a 4% contractual increase.   
 
The Lunenburg foundation enrollment increased from 97 students to 99 students thus the 
required minimum went from $1,127,113 to $1,172, 061. 
 
Dave Passios asks if Monty Tech has a dedicated staff member that writes grants. Tom 
Browne confirms and states they have a development coordinator and that’s one of her 
primary jobs. 
 
Evan Watters reiterates that the state is spending an average of 126% and asks how that 
works. Tammy Crockett states each school gets a different net school spending number. It 
changes from district to district and is a balancing act of what each town can afford. If you 
go below 95% you won’t get the chapter 70 increases.  
 
Chris Menard questions if the town were to pass the 2 ½ override for schools if that would 
have any effect on next year’s assessment. Tammy Crockett states that would not affect 
the assessment. 
 
Dave Passios asked if there were any catastrophic increases that weren’t banked on and 
had to budget for. Tammy confirms there have been issues mostly with technology.  
 
Evan Watters asks how the transportation is broken down. Lunenburg has a similar total 
number of students, and their transportation costs are lower. Tammy states they bid by 
route and currently they are using 3 different bus companies. 
 
b. Public Comment on Monty Tech Budget 
There was no public comment. 
 
c. Sewer Department FY25 Budget Presentation 
There was a presentation by the Vice Chair of the Sewer Commission, Brett Ramsden, and 
Business Manager, Paula Bertram. 
The department consists of: 
- Chair John Reynolds 
- Vice Chair Brett Ramsden 
- Secretary Michael Nault 
- Member David MacDonald 
- Member Michael Mackin 
- DPW Director Bill Bernard 
- Business Manager Paula Bertram 
===PAGE 4===
- Administrative Assistant Camille Farrar  
The Sewer Commission was established in 2006 and operates under the sewer enterprise 
fund. The system consists of 16 miles of gravity sanitary sewer, 3.9 miles of forced mains, 
2.3 miles of low-pressure sewer, and 10 pumping stations. There are intermunicipal 
agreements in place with Fitchburg and Leominster to treat waste. 
Current concerns 
- Significant infiltration and inflows 
- Pump stations need upgrades and repairs and nearing the end of their design life of 20-25 
years.  
- Increased feeds from Fitchburg and Leominster 
o Fitchburg is increasing their rates by 7% each year for the next 5 years. 
o Leominster is increasing rates by 16.7% effective July 1, 2024, and an additional 3% 
for FY 26.  
 Leominster’s NPDES permit has new requirements thus Lunenburg being a co-permittee 
Lunenburg has new report requirements to meet.  
New strategies are being put in place to address the infiltration and inflow of the system. 
ARPA funds of $100,000 were awarded to repair manholes throughout the town. There is a 
plan to go out to bid in spring to correct the identified manholes. There is a need to 
purchase equipment to assist with identifying sources of infiltration and inflow. This will 
also include engaging engineering services. 
Some improvements from FY 24 include the addition of new cranes installed at Dana 
Street, Leominster Road, and Mass One Station. Control panels were replaced and 
upgraded at West Street and Francis Ave. Station. Funding within the budget has been 
incorporated to clean wells annually.  
The Capital plan has increased to $368,749 for FY 25. This includes replacing aging 
equipment at various stations and addressing priority repairs at Mass One and Dana Street. 
The Commission has been working with Green Communities to obtain grant funding for 
pumps. 
The FY 25 Enterprise Fund Budget Revenues totals $1,751,189.00. 
Currently there is $33,750 in the contingency plan for emergency funding. 
Evan Watters questions if the proposed numbers include the cost of labor. Brett Ramsden 
confirms that is the case. 
Chris Menard asks if they see sewer lines and storm water lines along the same road. Paula 
Bertram states sometimes yes and sometimes no. The GIS system shows storm water 
drainage and sewers. 
Dave Passios asks if there is a design flaw that has led to the rusting of pipes and if the 
proper material was used. Paula Bertram states the force main can’t be a different 
material, but the suction lines could possibly be replaced with schedule 80 PVC. There are 
currently discussions with an engineer to confirm.  
===PAGE 5===
Rate Increases  
Sewer rates will increase by $12.34 per month for the average residential customer. The 
average residential unit is currently $233 per quarter and will increase to $270. The 
minimum charge will increase from $115 to $126. 
The connection fee will increase from $2,250 to $3,900 due to Leominster’s increase.  
The National Pollutant Discharge of Elimination System (NPDES) program administered by 
the EPA regulates discharge of waters. The new requirements set by NPDES include: 
- Adaptive plans must be completed within 24 months to identify vulnerable critical 
assets. 
- Adaptive measures within 36 months to minimize the impact of future conditions on 
critical assets and operations. 
- Within 48 months a schedule of implementation and maintenance of adaptive 
measures must be submitted to the EPA. 
- Annual maintenance plan and reports on adoption plan process and activities 
related to implementation of the ONM plans. 
Chris Menard asks when they project the retained earnings to go to zero. Paula Bertram 
hopes that doesn’t happen and we continue getting grant funding. By 2029 we hope to be 
starting to make a regular investment into retained earnings.  
Chris Menard asks what your assumptions are relative to rate increases over those years. 
Paula Bertram states this has not been decided. We are looking at 16% potentially but that 
is dependent on whether grant funding is received. 
Dave Passios asks if they plan to put a more aggressive inspection cycle into place. So that 
we will have a better handle on what’s going on before we have a major spill. Brett 
Ramsden states that is absolutely the case. The new plan includes draining those wet wells 
on a regular basis. That wasn’t the prior practice. Paula Bertram states we are also looking 
for I&I. As we identify issues, we will correct them and that will reduce costs but also 
weaken the infrastructure within.  
Jay Simeone questions how many customers they have. Paula Bertram says currently we 
have approximately 1365 units. We don’t bill customers. An example is the luxury 
apartments where they get 1 bill and there’s 42 units.  
Evan Watters questions if we are getting to the point where we may soon see catastrophic 
failures across the pipes. Brett Ramsden doesn’t believe so. He suspects that the pipes 
underground are generally in good shape.  
Evans Watters questions if we are anywhere near capacity issues with the current load. 
Brett Ramsden confirms that there is a lot of room. Paula Bertram states on average the 
flow is about 200,000 gallons per day to Leominster and the intermunicipal agreement is 
for 500,000 gallons per day.  
d. Public Comment on Sewer Department Budget       
 There was no public comment. 
===PAGE 6===
 
e. Administration, Unclassified, & Debt Service FY25 Budget Presentation Selectmen 
Administration           
 There are 2 increases that reflect additional advertising for open positions as we try to fill 
  vacancies. An increase for the meeting training line that reflects actual expenditures. 
The assistant town manager’s salary and the executive assistant salary will be dependent 
on fiscal 25 impact in the salary administration plan. 
This is an article at the annual town meeting brought forward by the Personnel Committee. 
Evan Watters asks how it works if we go into town meeting with this as our balanced budget 
then we then approve an SAP increase. Heather Lemieux states that will have to come out 
of the salary reserve or another category. 
Finance budget is level funded with the below increases:     
- $2,000 increases in the cost of dues and membership line.    
- $500 increase to attend conferences.  
- $100 increase in postage cost, $50 increase to reflect actual cost for contracted 
services. 
- Additional $1,000 in meeting line for additional training for new staff 
The town accountant salary line is contractual and the clerical staff line for the assistant 
town accountant includes contractual costs that were in the clerical collective bargaining 
agreement and the payroll benefits coordinator salary is dependent on the salary 
administration plan and town meeting vote. 
Chris Menard asks which positions are in the town accountant clerical line. Heather 
Lemieux states it’s the assistant town accountant, payroll, and benefits coordinator 
position. 
The Annual town audit budget is level funded for fiscal 25.      
  Dave Passios asks what the GASB 45 evaluation is. Heather Lemieux states it’s  
  required government audit standards board. 
The Legal budget is level funded for fiscal 25.        
  Evan Watters questions if these services are contracted. Heather Lemieux   
  confirms that’s the case and there have been occasional rate increases.   
  There are 2 councils: Labor Council and Town Council.   
Assessors budget: There is a need for an additional position in that office for a data collection  
  clerk. This is for 19 hours per week.    
The treasurer/collector budget is level funded. This includes contractual salary increases for the  
  assistant treasurer who is covered under the clerical bargaining agreement. It is  
  dependent on the salary administration plan in the article at the town meeting. This  
  is the same for the assistant collector. 
The Town Clerks’ budget reflects a 2.5% increase in salary.      
  Dave Passios asks why the town clerks’ budget is separated by line item. Heather  
===PAGE 7===
  Lemieux states it’s historically always been that way. It is also covered by clerical  
  bargaining agreements. 
 
The grant writer budget includes $50,000 for FY 25 for writing services. 
The health and sanitation budget reflects inflation throughout the economy with a 10%   
  increase. 
The health insurance budget reflects the 10% renewal rate increase for active employees and a  
  6% increase for retirees. The preliminary budget reflects the annual renewal rate which is a  
  5.7% increase for active employees and a 6% rate of increase for retirees.  
Chris Menard asks if there are any incentives offered if employees don’t take the offered 
insurance. Heather Lemieux states there is an opt out program that started last year and 
has been extended to the end of next year.  Chris Menard asks what the results were and 
Heather Lemieux states it was minimal. 
Tom Gray requests to see the numbers and be informed about what they are receiving. Tom 
Gray asks if the town has a health insurance broker and Heather Lemieux says yes.  
Unclassified  
- Workers’ compensation and liability insurance are estimated at a 5% increase. 
- Police/Fire injures on duty insurance estimated at a 5% increase. 
- Medicare costs are estimated at a 10% increase. 
- Assessment for Montachusett’s planning is 10% increase. 
- Salary reserve estimated decrease from $199,000 to $100,000. 
- Reserve funds estimated decrease from $275,000 to $100,000. 
 
Debt service highlights 
FY 25: ES/HS heating system exempt debit retires in FY 24 ($163,806), portion of sewer 
enterprise debt retires in FY 24 ($335,148), Meadow Woods water debt decreases $1,250 
and MSBA payment for old school project reduced from $59,969 to $4. 
FY 26: Library exempt debt, ladder truck, and Saliba property general fund debt retires in FY 
 25. 
FY 30: Artificial turf field general debt bonded in 2017 retires in FY 29 
FY 36: Pavement management excludable debt bonded in 2020 and retires in FY 35 
FY 46: MS/HS excludable debt retires in FY 45 
FY 48: Meadow Woods USDA debt for water/sewer retires in FY 47 
Non-discretionary -Total appropriation for FY 25 debt service is $2,941,322. 
f. Public Comment on Administration, Unclassified, & Debt Service Budget Presentation 
Dave Passios questions why some budding towns such as Ashby are capital exemption for 
1 year and would like to see the comparison between Lunenburg and Ashby. 
===PAGE 8===
Evan Watters believes that Lunenburg is pushing an upper middle-class town and doesn’t 
believe we are going to get additional money. The state thinks that we are supposed to fund 
our schools to a certain amount. 
Chris Menard states we can’t keep electing the same people because we know their 
priorities are not on schools. He pays a lot of money in state taxes, and it should be coming 
back to our communities.  
Dave Passios states we keep getting hit from unfunded mandates from the state and 
federal government.  
Evan Watter states 100% of our property taxes come back to Lunenburg. That’s the highest 
value for the dollar that were going to find the largest amount of change that can be made 
directly for the town.  
Tom Gray believes the problem with increasing real estate taxes is that there are people 
who bought expensive homes 40 years ago who don’t have the income to pay the higher 
taxes.  
g. Warrant Article Discussion 
  The below list are updated warrant articles submitted by the Town Manager:   
   - Local Wetland Protection bylaw fees       
   - Language for prop 2 ½ for schools. This doesn’t include numbers.   
   - SAP warrant article has language but no numbers.     
   - SAPs from the Personnel Committee        
   - State exemption for taxpayers who are granted exemptions.    
   -Board of Assessor article has been submitted but doesn’t include numbers.  
   -Adoption of Mr. Alonzo’s for historical app      
   - OPAB Liability Trust fund and zoning code 
The Planning Board articles have the changes in language but changes from Town Council 
are coming. 
There is an article with language relating to the water supply district.  
Heather Lemieux states the Select Board reallocated ARPA funding to cover the network 
upgrade equipment, 911 compliant phone systems, and Chromebooks totaling $221,640. 
That money will come out of the school’s budget and be paid through ARPA. 
Additionally, there will be a pause on the pavement management plan and that would 
reallocate $50,000 towards the schools.  
h. FinCom Report for Warrant Discussion         
 There was a brief discussion about the timeline that this report needs to be completed by.  
 Additionally, discussion will take place at the next meeting when Tiffaney Tavares is in         
 attendance. 
Chris Menard states that every department request has been reasonable this year.  
Evan Watters wants to address the debt capacity spending. Tom Gray agrees and believes 
we need to prepare the town for this discussion and get a consensus from the town. 
===PAGE 9===
  
8. Old Business 
  a. FY21-FY23 Revenue and Expenditures Recap Discussion      
  This topic was skipped for tonight’s meeting. 
b. FY25 Budget Update/Discussion          
 i. Previous FY25 Presentations 
  Dave Passios reiterates his concern relating to the food service manager position  
  and the increase in hours. He wants a clear answer as to what’s going to happen  
  with that position.  
Tom Gray states these are difficult discussions. We must ask the Town Manager and 
department heads as if it were their money being spent. 
Evan Watters states he trusts the department heads and their knowledge of what 
they need. Simply reducing people down to numbers is not what we should be 
doing. 
ii. Upcoming FY25 Presentations 
  There was no discussion. 
9. Minutes 
 a. 2/22/2024 
  The Committee postponed the 5 sets of minutes for approval to the meeting scheduled for  
  tomorrow.  
10. Committee Reports 
  Dave Passios states there is a green communities meeting on the 25th. There will be a  
  discussion and next steps relating to the sewer commission upgrade to their pumping  
  stations.  
11. Topics for Future Meetings 
       -  Create a table or graph of the override per household 
- Town needs for upcoming services for buildings 
- Prepare the town for upcoming projects 
- Deeper dive into budgets this year  
- Capital plan update 
- Addressing the millionaire’s tax only hitting so far for Chapter 90 
- Update on SAP plan 
- Consolidation of services 
- Grant writer services 
12. Upcoming FY25 Budget Meetings 
 a. Mar 21st – Public Access Committee, & Other Monied Articles – Lunenburg Public    
  Schools Update (FinCom) 
 b. Mar 28th at 6:30 PM – FinCom Public Hearing 
 c. Apr 1st at 7PM – Remote Meeting  
  
===PAGE 10===
 d. Apr 4th - FinCom Public Hearing 
13. Important Dates 
a. Apr 2nd – FinCom Report for Warrant 
b. May 4th at 9:00 AM – Annual Town Meeting 
c. May 18th – Annual Town Election 
 
14. Public Comment 
Ana Lockwood had a comment relating to some of the proposed positions going from part-time to 
full-time. The Council on Aging and Parks and Recreation Departments are there to serve the 
people, the assessor’s office are there to assess taxes fairly and that can’t be put into the private 
sector. The public sector is not bringing in direct revenue from their activities. The money being 
spent to have a cook to serve people over the age of 50 in Lunenburg is not expensive. 
15. Adjourn 
 There was a motion to adjourn by Chris Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 11:30 PM. 