===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
September 12, 2024 
Present Members:  Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Committee Member 
Dave Passios, Committee Member Jean Russell, Committee Member 
Jay Simeone 
Absent Members:   Committee Member Tom Gray 
1. Call to order  
  The meeting opened at 7:03 PM. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements 
  Evan Watters states that the Finance Appointing Committee met and re-
 appointed Tom Gray for another 3 years on the Finance Committee. Tiffaney 
 Tavares term expired on June 30th, and she is not seeking reappointment. 
 There is a vacancy on the Committee and an opening for a clerk.  
 
4. Public Comment 
There were no comments from the public or the Committee. 
 
5. Interim Town Manager Report 
  Carter Terenzini states there were 4 applications received for the Sewer 
 Commission and there are 3 vacancies.  
Below is the budget concerns identified by Carter Terenzini at his start date: 
- Trash Contract- This has been resolved and within the budget. Carter 
Terenzini did advise that the Select Board over the coming years will need 
to conduct an in-depth study about how to deliver trash services or 
whether not to deliver those services.       
 Evan Watters questions if a new contract was signed. Carter Terenzini 
  confirms the contract hasn’t been signed but is under final review. 
 There will be no changes in routes and a postcard will be sent to 
===PAGE 2===
 residents. The company is GW Shaw and Son. This contract is 
 renewable only by the town.  
- The new growth is anticipated to exceed the number in the budgetary 
projections.  
- There is $100,000 of free cash from this year’s budget that needs to be 
spent.  
6. Finance Director Report 
There was no report from the Finance Director. 
7. New Business 
a. Inspector of Weights and Measures Budget Deficit – Interim Town Manager 
Carter Terenzini states in Massachusetts there are many functions 
 devolved down to the local level. The salary of the Inspector of 
 Weights and Measures was $3,000 and they have resigned. One of the 
 options is to hire the State of Massachusetts to complete the 
 inspections. This will cost $10,000 plus or minus depending on the 
 number of services to be inspected. Carter Terenzini would like to 
 defer this discussion for 2 weeks to get a better understanding on the 
 number of inspections.  
Evan Watters will add this to the agenda for the next scheduled 
 meeting.  
b. MART Taxi & Livery Grant budget Deficit – Interim Town Manager & the 
Director at the Lunenburg Counsel on Aging, Sue Doherty  
The current MART grant expires at the end of September. Carter 
Terenzini will be requesting $20,000 at the fall Town Meeting to 
continue the program. There are about 400 rides a month given to 
Lunenberg residents.  There will be a gap between September 30th and 
November 30th that is estimated to cost $5,000.  
Sue Doherty states that this program is for everybody in the town 
including kids and the elderly. To date the ages of the riders have not 
been tracked. 
The MART will go 20 miles out of town in any direction of a client’s 
home and runs 5 days a week from 6:30AM to 10PM.  
Sue Doherty has contacted the Executive Office of Elder Affairs about 
a formula grant where some of that money can be used. 
Dave Passios asks where this grant funded program will fall as a line-
 item next year. Carter Terenzini states it is currently not in the budget, 
 but this may become a warrant under capital and special articles. 
===PAGE 3===
Chris Menard questions if people were using this service to get to 
 Nashoba Valley Hospital and inquires with it now being closed are 
 they able to get to Emerson Hospital. Sue Doherty states they will only 
 travel 20 miles from pickup to drop off. Carter Terenzini will reach out 
 to MART and discuss with them since for most residents Emerson 
 Hospital is not within 20 miles. 
There was a motion to authorize the transfer of $5,000 from the 
 reserve fund to the Council on Aging to cover the October and 
 November MART transportation by Dave Passios, seconded by Jean 
 Russell. Roll call vote. Chris Menard aye, Dave Passios aye, Jean 
 Russell aye, Jay Simeone aye, Evan Watters aye.  
c. Future Capital Projects w/wo Borrowing 
Carter Terenzini will review the Charter in the next couple of weeks 
and review history and trend lines. He will then discuss with his 
counterparts to produce a 5-year financial forecast.  
Chris Menard questions if there is an estimate on each of the capital 
funding projects and whether there funded properly. Carter Terenzini 
believes it’s likely that every account is underfunded. Once projects 
go out to bid there will be a better idea of the accounts. 
Evan Watters says a historical forecast for this fiscal year has not 
been received. The Town Manager was unable to get one completed 
prior to her departure.  
Evan Watters asks what the Committee can do to help with the 
process. Carter Terenzini spoke to Peter Beardmore and there was a 
desire to have a better tailored presentation.  
Evan Watters provided an anticipated list with deadline dates for 
capital projects. 
d. Review Budget Process/Suggestions for Improvement – Interim Town 
Manager 
  Carter Terenzini needs a minimum of 23 days to have a final warrant 
 and report together. The document will need to get printed and be out 
  in the mail 17 days prior to the town meeting. 
If the school budget isn’t present until sometime in March Carter 
Terenzini will be unable to present the Committee with a balanced 
budget.  
===PAGE 4===
Currently there are 11 warrant articles: 
  1. The state has sent $31,882 in Chapter 70 funding. Schools   
   has requested to receive that funding. The Select Board has  
   asked that it be added as a warrant article and a supplemental  
   appropriation.  
   2. Prudent investment warrant 
   3. The State has passed a law about accessory dwelling units.   
   An Amendment needs to be completed to comport with the  
   new state law. This is a zoning amendment from the Planning  
   Board. 
   4.There is a Zoning amendment related to water protection district  
   work. 
   5. There is a proposal for a revolving fund for the meal program. This  
   will bring the program in line with the state standards. 
   6. There is a proposal by the Parks Department for a revolving fund.  
   This would convert 53d to 53e1/2.  
   7. The Board of Assessors have a warrant article relating to veteran  
   exemptions 17d.  
   8. There is an additional article from the Board of Assessor’s relating  
   to the elderly exemption 41c. 
   9. Personnel bylaws warrant from the School 
   10. Salary Administration Plan from the School 
   11. The Parks Commission requested an article to borrow a sum of  
   money for the purposes of funding all remaining costs of  
   design and construction of Marshall Park. 
i. Budget Presentation Template 
Evan Watters sent a template to the Committee for the budget 
presentation. A decision needs to be provided to Carter Terenzini by 
October 1st to be given to department heads. 
The template is as follows: 
Slide 1: Title slide 
Slide 2: Department overview including mission statement, key 
 services provided, staffing overview, and organizational 
 chart 
Slide 3: Summary of the previous year’s budget 
Slide 4 & 5: Proposed target budget for upcoming year 
Slide 6 &7: Proposed level services and needs based budget  
  for the upcoming year 
Slide 8: Personnel costs 
Slide 9: Operating expenses 
===PAGE 5===
Slide 10: Capital expenses  
Slide 11: Justification for cost increases 
Slide 12: Budget efficiencies  
Slide 13: Impact of not fully funding the level service/needs- 
  based  budget 
Slide 14: Revenue sources 
Slide 15: Department goals for the coming year 
Slide 16: Challenges in the upcoming year 
 
8.  Prudent Investment Warrant Article Discussion – Town Finance Director 
  Ezequiel Ayala confirms he is planning on putting this article forward. He 
 states this will not affect the stabilization funds and will only affect the trust 
 funds. 
 
9. Split Tax Rate Presentation/Discussion  
Evan Watters provided a presentation and comparison study with the town of 
 Maynard. There were a lot of similarities in trends, averages, and value. The 
 major difference was in the tax levy and capacity . Evan Watters is planning to 
 provide the Budget Task Force with the presentation within the next week. 
 The Task Force will determine whether or not a split tax rate is reasonably 
 prudent to discuss with the  Select Board.  
 
g.   DLS Financial Policy Manual Draft 
   Evan Watters plans to review and compare our current manual and see if 
 there are any recommendations. Carter Terenzini would like the Committees 
 comments.  
8. Old Business 
a. Town Manager Search Committee – Update 
  Chris Menard states that there is a group that the Committee interviewed 
 that is  now under contract. Currently, they are interviewing a bunch of 
 people in town to get an idea of the character of the town. This will be used 
 as an assessment for potential candidates. The next meeting is scheduled 
 for the  first Monday in October. There will be an executive session held to 
 narrow down  candidates, followed by interviews. There will be a final round 
 of interviews with 2-4 candidates. A recommendation for salary will be set in 
  the next coming weeks. 
 b. Budget Task Force – Update 
  There were no updates provided.  
 c. Grant Writing Services – Update  
  There were no updates provided. 
===PAGE 6===
d. Consolidation of Services/Departments 
  There were no discussions related to this topic. 
9. Minutes 
  The approval of minutes were postponed. 
10. Committee Reports 
  This topic was skipped for this meeting 
11. Topics for Future Meetings 
  There are no additional topics to add to future agendas. 
12. Important Dates 
  a. 9/16/24 – Special Town Meeting Warrant Closes @ 5p 
  b. 9/20/24 – MMA Capital Planning Webinar, 12p-1:15p 
  c. 11/2/24 – MMA ATFC Annual Meeting, 9a-2:15p @ Sharon Community Center 
  d. 11/12/24 – Special Town Meeting, 5p @ LMHS 
13. Upcoming Meetings: 
  a. 9/26/24 
  b. 10/10/24 
14. Public Comment 
  Public Comment- There were no comments from the public. 
  Board Comment- Dave Passios states that Green Communities met, and they are  
    actively pursuing the mini split phase 2. The Committee   
    anticipates this grant being submitted for the October grant  
    round. 
15. Adjourn  
===PAGE 7===
  There was a motion to adjourn by Dave Passios, seconded by Jay Simeone. Roll call 
 vote. Chris Menard aye, Dave Passios aye, Jean Russell aye, Jay Simeone aye, Evan 
 Watters aye. 
The meeting closed at 10:31 PM. 
 
  