===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
October 10, 2024 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell (Zoom), Clerk Tom Gray, 
Committee Member Jay Simeone 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Evan Watters resigned from his position as the Chair over the weekend and the 
 Committee is down to 4 members. 
There is an upcoming ﬁnance appointing meeting on Tuesday where a 5th candidate 
 will be discussed.  
Chris Menard states the if any resident is interested in becoming a member they 
 should inquire. The Interim Town Managers term is set to expire in January and the 
 process to hire a new Town Manager will require a full board.  
4. Public Comment 
  Dave Passios, formally 56 Whiting Street, suggests that the Committee take a close 
 look at the revolving account that’s being created for the Council on Aging. He 
 doesn’t believe it clearly states what kind of revolving account they are looking to 
 establish under Mass General Law. 
Additionally, Dave Passios states that the draft town warrant is listed as a Fall Town 
Meeting Warrant. There are no provisions in the charter for a second town meeting 
anytime during the ﬁscal year. At the last Special Town Meeting it was decided that 
there should be only 1 actual town meeting a year because of the diƯerent 
requirements for voting among other things.  
Jay Simeone, Tom Gray, and Jean Russell thank Evan Watters for his knowledge, 
leadership and time he put into the Committee. 
===PAGE 2===
Chris Menard states he was not present at the last meetings and wanted to thank 
Dave Passios for everything he has done for the town.  
5. Finance Director Report 
   Carter Terenzini conﬁrms that new growth is being reviewed and a ﬁnal assessment 
 value will be completed by the assessment team next week. The Board of Assessors 
 anticipates ﬁnal action to be taken to submit everything for certiﬁcation of free cash 
 in the next 2 weeks. They are behind schedule but are in decent shape. A 
 classiﬁcation hearing is anticipated to take place in early November.   
6. New Business 
  a. Reorganize 
   There is discussion about who may be able to be the Chair. 
   Jay Simeone and Tom Gray are unable to take that position.  
  Tom Gray suggests Chris Menard be the Chair.  Chris Menard    
  agrees to stand in as the Chair for the time being. Chris Menard has no  
  problem running the meetings but is generally unavailable during the   
  daytime.   
  Jean Russell agrees to be the Vice Chair.  
There was a motion by Jay Simeone to nominate Chris Menard as Chair, Jean 
Russell as Vice Chair, and Tom Gray for the Clerk position, seconded by Tom 
Gray. Roll call vote. Jean Russell aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Chris 
Menard aye. 
b. Special Town Meeting Warrant Summary 
   Chris Menard is aware that the Parks commission is currently meeting and  
  will be requesting a presentation for their warrant article. Their presentation  
  will be added to the agenda on October 24th.  
Carter Terenzini states he can write the Finance Committees   
 recommendation as deferred in the booklet and could provide an insert that 
 will be provided to attendees. 
1st WARRANT ARTICLE 
   Town will vote to authorize the payment of “late bill” from FY24, 
 appropriate a sum of $4,180 to pay bill, and meet appropriation by a 
 transfer from the overlay surplus account. Last week the Board of 
 Assessors certiﬁed $225,000 as excess overlay reserved for 
 appropriation. 
===PAGE 3===
Tom Gray inquiries about what the bill is for. Carter Terenzini will get 
 the invoice to the Committee. 
2nd WARRANT ARTICLE 
    This is a request from the School Committee. After the state’s ﬁnal  
  budget was settled there was a sum of $31,882 in the chapter 70  
  account. The Committee is requesting that money be appropriated  
  to them.  
Tom Gray asks what the schools are anticipating using the money for. 
  Carter Terenzini says he was not provided speciﬁcs. Chris Menard is 
 requesting the School Committee attend the public hearing to provide 
 further explanation.  
3rd WARRANT ARTICLE 
   This article is related to the Lunenburg MART connection   
  transportation program. The request is to appropriate a sum of money  
  to fund the rest of the ﬁscal year for the MART organization. 
Carter Terenzini states he has received an answer from MART about 
 transporting residents to Lunenburg. They have conﬁrmed that will 
 travel past 20 miles for a Lunenburg resident to get to Emerson 
 Hospital. 
4th WARRANT ARTICLE        
  This article is to vote to accept the provisions of law to allow the  
  towns trust funds to be invested in the so called “Prudent Investor  
  Rule” .  
5th WARRANT ARTICLE 
     This article is from the Planning Board and Carter Terenzini is unable  
  to speak about this article in length. Carter Terenzini can request the  
  Land Use Director attend the public hearing to discuss. The   
  Committee only wants to know if there is any ﬁnancial impact.  
6th WARRANT ARTICLE 
    This article is to establish a revolving fund for the Council on Aging  
  meals program. All deposits will be put into a revolving fund account  
  and accounts would then be set up with vendors. Those bills will be  
  paid out from the revolving account. First there needs to be an   
  amendment to the code. Second there needs to be an annual   
  estimated limit to spend yearly. The estimate is $16,000 for the   
===PAGE 4===
  balance of the ﬁscal year. At the annual town meeting a new limit will  
  have to be set. There is a statue issue that requires that all revolving  
  funds be set up by July 1 st of a ﬁscal year. Additional funds can be set  
  up throughout the year, but a written explanation needs to be provided 
  to the Department of Revenue.    
Chris Menard asks if there is a statue equivalent and Carter Terenzini 
 states  that would be 53E ½. 
Tom Gray asks what the Council on Aging is expected a full year will 
 cost. Carter Terenzini will inquire with Sue Doherty. 
7th WARRANT ARTICLE  
   This article is related to statue 53D revolving fund for the Parks   
  Department. Statue 53D requires that at the end of the year if there is  
  a balance above $10,000 it’s supposed to go to the general fund. The  
  general fund currently has over $75,000. The 53D fund needs to be  
  converted to 53E ½ as there is no cap on how much can be in the  
  account at any given time. The Parks Department will provide a   
  number for the FY25 spending limit by Town Meeting.  
8th WARRANT ARTICLE 
   This article is related to the Brooks House and was submitted by  
  Architectural Preservation District Commission. The Commission is  
  requesting the town vote to request to have the Select Board prepare  
  a report. This report will then be presented at the 2025 annual town  
  meeting with the intent of oƯering the building for sale or long-term  
  lease. 
Chris Menard states Nathan Lockwood had provided a detailed 
 discussion at  a recent Select Board meeting.  
    Carter Terenzini states if this passes the Land Use Director will look at 
    zoning, prepare a sketch, meet with the schools, participate in public  
   meeting and then present that report at the town meeting in the spring 
   of 2025. 
Chris Menard questions what income would come from leasing the 
 building. Carter Terenzini conﬁrms that will be part of the study.  
===PAGE 5===
9th WARRANT ARTICLE 
  This article is related to amendments and additions to code and 
 salary administration plan.  
Carter Terenzini states there have been challenges in recruiting and 
 retaining employees. Listening sessions were held where employees 
 attended and shared their concerns. There are issues with the 
 process that requires formal action by the Personnel Committee in an 
 open public session.  
Chris Menard suggests reaching out to the prior Personnel Committee 
 members as this was something they had discussed. 
10th WARRANT ARTICLE 
   This article is a vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg Chapter 250  
  related to the Water Supply Protection District. 
11th WARRANT ARTICLE 
   This article is requesting that State Statue be adopted to allow certain  
  exemptions for the elderly. Over time the limits have been adopted at  
  town meetings but there were 3 provisions that were never adopted.  
  This article would make necessary changes so that the next ﬁscal year 
  and going forward would be able to start increases again.  
Currently there are 21 people who qualify for these programs and 2 of 
 them will not be able to get this beneﬁt for this ﬁscal year. 
12th WARRANT ARTICLE 
     This vote is to allow the Chair of the Budget Task Force, and the  
  Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee make a verbal report on the  
  status of the work of their group force. 
13th WARRANT ARTICLE  
    This article is requested the Town vote to borrow a sum of money to  
  complete the Marshall Park improvement project. The Parks   
  Commission is having a presentation on the 24th of October. 
14th WARRANT ARTICLE 
     This is a citizen’s petition requesting the Town vote to borrow a sum of 
  money within the town’s debt limits for the purpose of funding the  
  remaining costs of design and construction of Marshall Park. 
Chris Menard is requesting general deﬁnitions be added to the booklet.  
===PAGE 6===
7. Old Business 
  a. Budget Presentation Template – There was no discussion about this topic at the  
  meeting. 
  b. MART Taxi & Livery Grant Update – There was no discussion about this topic at the  
  meeting. 
  c. Split Tax Rate Presentation/Discussion – There was no discussion about this topic 
   at the meeting. 
  d. Town Manager Search Committee – Update 
   Chris Menard conﬁrms that the Town Manager Search Committee met. The  
  Town Manager requisition was posted to MMA.  The posting provided an  
  overview of Lunenburg and the expectations and positions. Resumes are due 
  by November 8 th. Any discussion going forward will be done in executive 
  session until the list is narrowed down. They anticipate screening interviews 
  with the candidates. The Select Board will then complete their interviews and 
  that is anticipated that be completed in late December or early January.  
  e. Budget Task Force – Update 
   Jean Russell was not able to attend the Zoom meeting but will watch it on  
  YouTube. 
  f. Grant Writing Services – Update 
   There were no updates. 
  g. Consolidation of Services/Departments 
   Chris Menard states that the school facilities director has resigned.  At prior  
  meetings there has been discussion about consolidation of services and that 
  the facilities department may be a good place to start. Chris Menard   
  suggests a single facilities director may be more logical. The Committee  
  questions if there would need to be a change in charter for this to occur. 
8. Minutes 
  Dave Passios provided a note for the August 22 minutes. Approval of minutes will 
 occur at the next meeting.  
9. Committee Reports 
  Jean Russell has no committee reports. 
Tom Gray attended the Zoom meeting about Project 211 by the Regional School 
Committee Group.  During the meeting, participants learned how Chapter 70 is 
calculated and the formulas. The State gives more money depending on how well 
the town is run. Project 211 wants to change the formulas. Tom Gray will continue to 
follow these meetings. 
===PAGE 7===
Tom Gray states Municipal Design Committee met but he wasn’t able to attend the 
meeting. 
Jay Simeone watched the Sewer Commission meeting. A new business manager 
was hired and then left after a week. Interviews have been held and a discussion will 
be made at the next meeting. They are still looking for an assistant sewer business 
manager. 
Chris Menard states that the police department provide their capital plan at the last 
meeting. This year’s capital plan focuses on police cruisers and expansion into the 
second ﬂoor for extra workspace. 
Chris Menard conﬁrms that the Parks Commission is meeting tonight, and they 
intend to ﬁnalize their warrant article. 
10. Topics for Future Meetings 
  The focus of the Committee over the next coming weeks will be the Special Town 
 Meeting that will take place on the second week of November. 
11. Important Dates 
  a. 11/2/24 – MMA ATFC Annual Meeting, 9a-2:15p @ Sharon Community Center 
  b. 11/12/24 – Special Town Meeting, 7p @LMHS 
12. Upcoming Meetings: 
  a. 10/24/24 
  b. 11/7/24 
13. Public Comment 
  Dave Passios is excited to hear about the new beneﬁts coming at the Town Meeting. 
 Additionally, he wants the Committee to consider having someone liaison with the 
 DPW director especially with the winter months coming.  
  Chris Menard reiterates that there are 3 vacancies on the Committee.  
14. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call vote. 
 Jean Russell aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 9:10 PM. 