===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
September 26, 2024 
Present Members:  Chair Evan Watters, Committee Member Dave Passios, Committee 
Member Jean Russell, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Members:   Vice Chair Chris Menard, Committee Member Tom Gray 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:20 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Dave Passios states this will be his last Finance Committee meeting for the Town of 
 Lunenburg as he will no longer be a Lunenburg resident. He will remain on the Green 
  Communities through the next grant round as the Charter and  Massachusetts  
 General law allows.  Evan Watters and Jay Simeone thanked Dave Passios for his 
 contributions to the town.  
Evan Watters states with Dave Passios leaving and Tiffaney Tavares leaving after her 
 term the committee is down to 5 members. The Committee generally is a board of 7 
 members and there needs to be 4 members present to have a quorum. If there is 
 any interest volunteer forms will be on the website. 
Evan Watters shared that the food pantry had a ribbon cutting ceremony today for 
 their new space. They have moved out of the kitchen and into the full cafeteria.  
The second annual Town Official Meet and Greet is currently underway and will 
 conclude in about an hour. 
The PTO reached out to share that they have updated their products for the coming 
 year and removed a portion of the sports aspect.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Finance Director Report 
  Ezequiel Ayala wasn’t available for the meeting. 
6. New Business 
  a. Special Town Meeting Warrant Summary 
===PAGE 2===
   Evan Watters, the town moderator, the interim town manager Carter   
  Terenzini, and occasionally the Select Board have had discussion about the  
  formalities of the warrant articles. Carter Terenzini sent over some options  
  that other towns have used to review. They anticipate having the usual  
  verbiage of the actual article, legal ease, and a bolded summary.   
  Additionally, the votes from the Select Board and the Finance Committee will 
  be displayed. There will be a new option to add an additional comment. 
Jay Simeone suggests adding a summary of what a “no” vote and “yes” vote 
would mean consequence wise. 
The drafted warrants were sent off to Town Council yesterday and anticipate 
having them back by October 1st. The draft warrants will go to the Select 
Board on October 4th. The Finance Committees final report is due October 
17th. The documents need to go to the printer by October 18th and be mailed 
out by October 25th.  
b. DLS Financial Policy Manual Draft 
   Evan Watters will reach out to Carter Terenzini, Ezequiel Ayala and Caesar  
  Nuzzolo to see where they stand on this topic. 
The Interim Town Manager has confirmed that he would appreciate the 
Finance Committee’s opinion. 
7. Old Business 
  a. Budget Presentation Template  
Dave Passios suggests showing a recommended department budget or 
dollar amount developed by department heads based on what the town 
manager suggests is the budget. Then they are to present what they were 
strongly pushing for above the Town Managers targeted budget.  
The Finance Committee is requesting all spreadsheets, and anything budget 
related be provided the Committee at least 7 days in advance of their 
scheduled presentation. Also, the Committee is requesting 5 to 7 years of 
detailed budgeting documents.  
There was a motion to approve the edited budget presentation template by 
Dave Passios, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll call vote. Jay Simeone aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Jean Russell aye, Evan Watters aye. 
Evan Watters will provide the interim town manager a copy to review.   
  b. MART Taxi & Livery Grant Update 
   There was a question at a prior meeting about whether a Lunenburg resident  
  would be allowed to be transported to Emerson hospital as it is outside of the 
===PAGE 3===
  20-mile radius. Evan Watters confirmed this has been approved. MART is  
  currently unsure of what the cost would be but anticipate having an estimate 
  by Special Town Meeting.  
  c. Split Tax Rate Presentation/Discussion 
   If the commercial industrial and personal property percentage (CIP) is too  
  low it will drive businesses out of town.  There aren’t many communities in  
  Massachusetts that have a split tax rate with CIP value percentage under  
  15%. The comparison between Lunenburg and Maynard and the CIP rates  
  over 20 years has been similar. 
  d. Town Manager Search Committee – Update 
   There were no updates from the Committee.  
  e. Budget Task Force – Update  
   Evan Watters provided his presentation to the Budget Task Force. 
 f. Grant Writing Services – Update 
   Evan Watters is very worried that by annual town meeting there will still be 
   $50,000 appropriated for grant writing services and not a single person has  
  inquired.  The issue seems to be that there are no templates, list of service  
  providers, or contact information. 
Dave Passios questions if Evan Watters would be able to execute the first 
phase to get this started. Evan Watters has reached out to a grant writing 
service company in Massachusetts with no response. He will reach out again 
and see if they would be willing to come in and sit down with department 
heads and the Finance Committee for a discussion.   
 g. Consolidation of Services/Departments 
   Dave Passios believes this would be a consolidation and not a money saver.  
  There are other towns in this state that do it will no problem and function  
  well.   
The consensus is that there are staffing issues and problems keeping up with 
 the needs. 
8. Minutes 
  There were no minutes to review and approve. 
9. Committee Reports  
  Dave Passios states that Green Communities and the schools are pushing forward 
 with submitting a grant application in the next couple of weeks. This grant is in 
 regards to the mini split phase 2 project for the primary school.  Their next  
  scheduled meeting is the first week in October. 
===PAGE 4===
10. Topics for Future Meetings  
            There are no additional topics to be added to future agendas.  
11. Important Dates 
  a. 11/2/24 – MMA ATFC Annual Meeting, 9a-2:15p @ Sharon Community Center 
  b. 11/12/24 – Special Town Meeting, 5p @LMHS 
12. Upcoming Meetings: 
  a. 10/10/24 
  b. 10/24/24 
  c. 11/7/24 
13. Public Comment 
  Dave Passios shares that the Lunenburg High School Alumni Association is 
 sponsoring the annual alumni lunch on October 20th at the Bull Run Restaurant. If 
 anyone is interested in obtaining tickets they can reach out to the Alumni 
 Association.  
14. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Dave Passios, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll call 
 vote. Jay Simeone aye, Dave Passios aye, Jean Russell aye, Evan Watters aye. 
The meeting closed at 10:25 PM. 