===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
June 13, 2024
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard,  Clerk Tiffaney 
Tavares,  Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean 
Russell, Board Member Jay Simeone
1. Call to Order
The meeting opened at 7:00PM.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
Evan Watters states that the Town Manager s last day will be A ugust 4 th . A search
committee will be put together  to find a new  Town Man a ger.
4. Public Comment
There were no  comments from the  public.
5. Town Manager Report
The Owner ’s Project Manager Services  contract for Marshall Park was awarded  
through  a park grant .
The Town received notification from FEMA for denial of public assistance  from 
the severe weather and flooding that occurred in September of 2023.  The State 
issued that a million dollars be set aside from  the  fall  supplemental  budget to be 
distributed to affected  cities and towns. Lunenburg received $ 30,000 . This 
number was reached based on storm related expenses, municipality size, and 
the amount of infrastructure  related costs.
The  Fiscal 25 tax bills will include the override amount  and are only an estimate 
until the tax rate is set in the fall.
Rep resentative  Scarsdale received  the earmark for the MILO training simulation 
systems for the police dept project . This training simulation p reviously didn ’t 
make the cut in  the capital plan .
The repairs to the public safety building were completed.
Ch ris M enard  questioned when the grant writing services will be available. 
Heather Lemieux  states a process needs to be put in place  and established  to 
ensure the resources aren ’t put into one department or committee.  Tiffaney 
===PAGE 2===
Tavares  agrees to work together with Heather Lemieux. Heather  Lemieux  will 
reach out to her association  for additional input.
6. Finance Director Report
Eze quiel  Ayala has  no new information or reports.
The quarter  finances for Q3 were s ubmitted and should be available within the 
next couple of weeks.
7. New Business
a. Town Manager Search Committee  Representative (Possible Vote )
T he T own M oderator is responsible  for chairing a committee  to replace  the
T own M anager  and has already reached out to Evan Watters.  This 
Committee will include a representative from the Finance Committee.
Chris Menard questions if the Committee must  come up with a group of 
candidates. Evan Watters states the group is to consist of 5 members : the 
T own M oderator, Finance Committee  representative, Tom Alon z o, P eter 
Beardmore , and a P lanning B oard R epresentative. 
Evan Watters nominated Chris Menard to be on the Committee for the  
permanent T own M anager , seconded by Dave  Passios . All in favor.
Th e Committee for the interim Town Manager will be handled exclusively  
by  the S elect B oard, A ssistant  T own M anager , and HR director.
b. Budget Task Force Discussion (Possible  Vote)
There has been no official vote to start a budget task force from the S elect 
B oard.
There is discussion about  whether this  group will include only appointed or
elected members of the town or if it should include members of the public. 
The budge t task force is anticipated to include a  F inance R ep resentative , 
School C ommittee R ep resentative , S uperintendent of S chools, B usiness  
D irector  for S chools, S elect B oard M ember,  and a Planning Board 
Member.
Ch ri s Menard  nominated Evan W atters to be the F inance C ommittee 
R epresentative , seconded by Tiffaney Tavares . All in favor.
c. Meeting with Rep Scarsdale, 1st Middlesex  District , and DESE to Discuss 
School Budget  Issues
Representative Margaret Scarsdale  sent out an email to members of her 
district  including T own M anager s , M oderators, S elect B oard C hairs, 
S chool  C ommittee C hair s , and  Finance C ommittee C hair s.
===PAGE 3===
The topics to be discussed include  the school budgets, regional  school  
transportation,  minimum required contributions, Chapter 70, effectiveness 
of the foundation formula and the 4 1/2% cap on the student opportunity 
act.
The proposed dates for the 2-hour long meeting include July 12 & July 19.
Chris Menard suggests  creating a prepared statement across the 3 
B oards.  Evan Watters  suggests the statement be drafted by the S chool 
C ommittee . Tiffaney Tavares  suggests  a col laboration between the 
F inance  C ommittee and S chool C ommittee.
d. Missing FinCom Minutes
Evan  Watters spoke to PAC and was told to search specifically for “FIN ” 
and that should generate everything  available.
Chris  Menard questions  if there is a time limit for  when minutes need to be 
submitted.
Chris Menard asks  if it ’s  been determined that  if  no meeting was held thus 
there are no minutes,  then what needs to be provided  for compliance.
Chris  Menard also s uggests append ing  the material to the minutes.
 8. Old Business
There was no old business to discuss.
9. Minutes
There was a motion to approve the minutes from the May 23, 2024, meeting by 
Chris Menard, seconded by Tiffaney Tavares. All in favor.
10. Committee Reports
Chris  Menard states the Parks Committee met and Ana Lockwood resigned from 
the Committee.
Chris  Menard shares that the  C apital P lanning  Committee met and is  f ocusing on
the 5-year  plan. T here is an at large seat available  on the C ommittee. The 
busiest time of the year for the Committee is during the fall and winter months.
Dave  Passios states that  G reen C ommunities  Committee met. Recently, the 
Committee backed out of the spring grant round at  the  last min ute for the sewer 
project. It t urned out to be more b eneficial to wait until the fall grant round to 
obtain a larger sum. Meetings  are scheduled monthly throughout the summer . 
Dave Passios shares  that i nformation is being provided on Facebook  about th e 
accomplishments of the committee related to finances.  Currently there are 2 
associate member seats available. 
===PAGE 4===
Evan  Watters shares that the M aster P lan St eering C ommittee met but Evan 
Watters was unable to attend.
All 5 of the members on the Personnel Committee  have resigned . Currently  this 
is a completely empty Committee.
11. Topics for Future Meetings
A list of future topics was created throughout the meeting.
12. Upcoming Meetings:
a. 6/27/2024
b. 7/11/24
13. Public Comment
There were no public comments.
14. Adjourn
There was a motion to adjourn by  Chris  Menard , seconded by  Dave Passios .
The meeting closed at 8:01 PM.