===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
February 20, 2024
Members Present: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Board Member Tom 
Gray, Board Member Dave Passios , Board Member Jean Russell, Board Member Jay 
Simeone
Members Absent: Clerk Tiffaney Tavares
1.       Call to Order
The meeting opened at 7:13PM.
2.     Join meeting with the Select Board and School Committee to meet with Senator 
John Cronin, Representative Michael Kushmerek, and Representative Margaret 
Scarsdale
Senator John Cronin provided the following statement :
Upon the onset of the covid -19 pandemic , 115 billion of federal aid and 
emergency relief funding made its way into Massachusetts  t hrough PPP 
loans, cares act, Esser funds, ARPA money. This r esulted in years of 
surplus revenue at a state level that many have never seen before. That it 
not where we are no w  with the fiscal year 25 budget process . The 
governor has issued fiscal year 24 9C cuts meaning the money 
appropriated last summer is being taken back because revenue 
collections are not keeping up with the projections.  W e are not in a 
recession. There was a projected 1.6% growth in the Commonwealth for 
tax collections for fiscal year 24.  Currently it ’s around a 1.2% growth. The 
s tabilization fund holds roughly 8 billion  dollars.  Due to us not being in a 
recession, that money will not be used because it will affect our bond 
rating in the states and the commonwealth ’s ability to borrow. A final 
budget won ’t get to Governor H ealy ’s desk until July.   Ultimately, these 
meetings are important for leadership and for us to establish priorities.
 
Representative Margaret S carsdale  provided the following statement :
Legislatively Margaret Scarsdale has voted to increase senior citizen 
circuit breaker from 1,000 to 2,000, increasing Department of 
Conservation and Recreation funding, and signed the senior citizen tax 
exemption bill.  Lunenburg  is 94 to 97% residential tax base meaning the 
budget generally falls on the backs of the taxpayers.  Margaret Scarsdale is
looking  forward to  ge tting  to know and get a better understanding of the 
Town of Lunenburg. In addition to Lunenburg, there are 5 other towns that 
Margaret Scarsdale works with.
 
Representative Michael Kushmerek  provided the following statement:
===PAGE 2===
Michael Kushmerek has f iled 37 pieces of legislation in the last 37 months.  
He b elieves  there is an overwhelming need for continued emphasis on 
funding for mental health.  There have been 8 pieces of legislation  filed  
related to mental health . The focus is to improve access and services for 
mental health and behavioral health, substance use and recovery. 
Additionally, he is p assionate about tackling Unitil and the increasing 
energy costs . He will u se every regulatory and legislative tool possible to 
ensure the rates are as low as possible.
 
Finance Committee participation started 58 minutes into recording.
Chris Menard :
This is the first full budget submitted by the new governor. She ’s putting her  effort
into  housing, climate, green energy, MBTA communities.  During the Groton 
meeting there was a discussion about universal pre-k, free  community college, 
infrastructure improvement. While these would all be great it doesn ’t seem like 
the right time to launch aggressive initiatives with the current financial situation.  
Environmental concerns make no sense for a town like Lunenburg that has a lot 
of conservation land which is a contributor to renewing the environment and to 
decarbonize the environment. It ’s almost disincentivizing for us to have forests by
forcing us to have housing or an MBTA community. We have huge stormwater 
concerns that we need help with and can ’t do on our own.  This one size fits all 
approach to government that Beacon Hill  likes is a real problem.
Senator John Cronin: 
 All aspirations mentioned occur within the confines of a balanced budget 
and we are in a difficult fiscal environment. One of the concerns that 
legislators know is a priority is housing.  We are in a housing crisis in 
Massachusetts. We want to increase smart growth which relies upon 
taking on the housing challenges. The second concern is the workforce. 
There is a significant shortage in the trades. Another significant headway 
on this session is raising the housing cap at Devens. He wants to 
incentivize people to come and invest in N orth C entral Massachusetts. 
That ’s how we will grow and that ’s the answer to all the budget strains 
that all communities are under right now. 
Chris Menard:
A lot of what was discussed was more geared toward city type issues. We are 
conservation and land. We are not the building industry. What can you do for 
Lunenburg to share the wealth? Chris Menard questions where they stand on 
the free community college bill. 
Representative Michael Kushmerek :
The legislature is very focused on the needs here. Those needs include 
helping our municipalities meet budget shortfalls, transportation, and 
education particularly k to 12. Everyone loves the idea of expanding 
childcare and creating more access. There is no affordable childcare and 
===PAGE 3===
no availability. There are budget priorities that need to be funded today. 
The idea is to create zoning to make it easier particularly for rural and 
suburban communities to hold more dense housing populations. A long-
term objective in the next 20 years will be a housing crisis if nothing is 
done.  Lunenburg has been a beneficiary of smart growth funds and as 
tax valuations increase, tax excise increases. It ’s likely in FY 25 there will 
be a return to smart growth funding. 
Chris Menard: 
The predictability of the entitlement funding and the 40s funding makes it very 
difficult to read because the past few years are all over the map. 
Representative Michael Kushmerek :
It is a challenge and depends on the precise student enrollment.
Representative Margaret S carsdale :
Education is transformational and fundament al  in a person ’s life,  and it 
needs to be invested in. W e are in a very tough financial situation with 
revenue being off for almost 8 months straight. All  of  our earmarks were 
cut by 50% in December because the Governors 9C cuts .  We a re 
constitutionally  required to present a balanced budget and that couldn ’t 
happen without those cuts. Many communities were counting on that 
money to fund projects and now must  postpone it . The senator and state 
representative are focusing on how to help Lunenburg and that may not 
involve pre-k or free community college.
Finance Committee participation ended at 1  hour and 19 minutes into recording.
Closing Comments from the Committees at the 1 hours and 49-minute mark
Evan Watters:
There is frustration and disappointment with the lack  of communication and how 
this meeting ran. This could have been time better spent. This was meant for the 
town of Lunenburg to express to you what our legislative needs. That was 
accomplished to a small extent. There was a large amount of here ’s what we ’re 
d oing for the entire area and region, but we are not a gateway city. Lunenburg is 
a small town, yet we are treated as if we were a very lucrative town. There needs 
to be a discussion and drilling down into details and that can ’t happen in 20 
minutes or 90 minutes across the 3 different committees and boards. The 
legislative should have a chance to speak to the legislative branch of 
government. There are 7 members in our committee, and we only heard from 1 
and we weren ’t allowed to speak because there wasn ’t enough time. Senator 
John Cronin represents 10 towns, Representative Michael Kushmerek  represents
2 towns, and Representative Margaret Scarsdale  represents 6 towns. Lunenburg 
is just 1 of those towns . T here needs to be a school committee meeting for 90 
minutes within a 1-year period to just discuss school budget issues. The school 
budget is 56% of the town budget. 
===PAGE 4===
Senator John Cronin :
We have been asked as a delegation not to appear before any other 
committees except the executive committee and we respect that. You 
have my personal phone number, and I will give you 90 minutes any day to
discuss anything you would like as it pertains to Lunenburg. 
Representative Michael Kushmerek ;
During our  first year in office,  we met with both  committees  and walked 
away with competing and conflicting priorities that left us wondering what 
the ear mark priority is  and  questioned what  the legislative priority  is . He 
has shared that he is always happ y  and available to talk one on one. He 
found today particularly helpful and learned where some aggregate issues 
are.
Evan Watters:
To push back against that there was no chance to have a discussion. There 
wasn ’t an opportunity to discuss back and forth. 
Select Board Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys:
Prior to this meeting there needs to be a discussion so we can all be heard 
through one voice. We should approach this internally and differently in the 
future. 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys invited the chairs to adjourn their meeting.
3. Adjourn
Evan Watters requests a motion to adjourn the F inance C ommittee by  ??????? , 
seconded b y ????.   Roll Call Vote.
Chris Menard disagrees with the adjournment and feels it ’s  inappropriate for one 
member of the selectboard to say they ’re  not allowed to meet with anyone . The 
meeting should continue due to the number  of problems we are having.
Michae l-Ray Jeffreys requested Evan Watters to move on to the next member 
and continue the voting.
Dave Passios ay e , Ja y S imeone ay e , T om G ray ay e , E van W atters ay e.
The meeting adjourned  at 9 :1 5 PM .