===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
October 24, 2024 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, 
Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
1. Call to Order  
   The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There is a new member on the Committee, Tanya Dall. 
There are still 2 vacancies if anyone is interested in making a diƯerence for the town. 
Chris Menard states he has been called oƯ on business travel for the night of the 
special town meeting. Jean Russell will be ﬁlling in on his behalf. 
4. Public Comment 
  John Bowen, 162 Highland Street, Thanks Evan Watters and Chris Menard for their 
 work. 
John Bowen has previously pushed for a cemetery corporation because of the 
 wasteful spending and misuse of the sale of lot funds by the Cemetery 
 Commission. He brought up the expenditures for 2021 and provided examples of 
 discrepancies. John Bowen is concerned about whether the Cemetery Commission 
 will be able to pay back bills discussed under Article 5 in the warrant.  
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Carter Terenzini states that all values including new growth have been submitted 
 and certiﬁed by the state. The classiﬁcation hearing will take place on November 19. 
  The estimated tax rate will be completed prior to the Special Town Meeting. 
6. Scheduled Meetings 
  a. Municipal Building Design Committee update 
   There will be an updated article at the Special Town Meeting in November  
  from the MBDC. The Committee encapsulated members from the Finance  
===PAGE 2===
  Committee, Select Board, School Committee, and members from the   
  community at large. Over the past few years, the TC Passios    
  building has been brought up in many discussions. The MBDC wants to turn  
  the building into a meeting house and the ﬁrst ﬂoor will have 4 meeting areas. 
  The ﬁrst quote to repurpose the building was 23 million dollars. When the  
  Committee was ready to go forward with a vote the price went up to 30  
  million.  
b. Parks Commission presentation on Marshall Park Borrowing 
   Anita Scheipers the Chairman of the Parks Commission shared the   
  information related to Marshall Park. The Parks Commission has been  
  looking at improvements to make Marshall Park more attractive and suitable  
  for residents of all ages and abilities. Back in 2020, a public information  
  gathering session was held. The Town Meeting did approve some initial funds  
  to pay for some early schematic design of the park and a ﬁrm was hired. It  
  was estimated that the park would cost approximately 5.2 million to   
  construct. This would include improvements to the playing ﬁelds, added  
  basketball court, pickleball court, pavilion, playground, dog park, and   
  walking paths. The Parks Commission went back to the Town Meeting and  
  received additional funds to further the design of the park. The Select Board  
  voted to allocate 1 million ARPA funds to the park project. The Parks   
  Commission then hired an owner’s project manager and a landscape   
  architecture ﬁrm and a new schematic design needed to be completed.  The  
  new estimated cost rose to 14 million in October of 2024. Initially the Parks 
   Commission thought there would be enough in hand to start phase 1 and  
  would ask for the remaining funds at the Special Town Meeting to ﬁnish  
  phase 2. There is now not enough money to complete phase 1.  
The Parks Commission considered narrowing down the scope of the project 
and discussed cutting the project back. There are commitments under the 
grant programs and after speaking with them it was determined we were 
committed under that grant contract that was already signed. They would 
have to complete the project, or they would not get reimbursement from the 
grant program for what was already spent and committed to. 
The Parks Commission made the discussion not to move ahead with the 
 borrowing article at the Special Town Meeting. will be meeting again on 
 November 6 th to discuss possible next steps. This article may be brought 
 back up at the Spring Town Meeting.  
===PAGE 3===
Jay Simeone questions what the status of the million-dollar ARPA funding 
that was previously committed to. Anita Scheipers spoke with the Interim 
Town Manager about using the ARPA funds to continue the design work for 
Marshall Park. 
7. Public Hearing 
 There was a motion to enter into public hearing by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom   
Gray. All in favor. 
  a. Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
  The Interim Town Manager, Carter Terenzini, discussed the warrant articles. 
Article 1: This article has been split into 2 pieces since the previous meeting. This 
  is a legacy article to amend the FY25 town budget to the extent it needs 
 amendments. There was more new growth than anticipated and the Select 
 Board intends to seek to appropriate that delta to the FY25 budget.  
Jay Simeone questions what the delta is right now. Carter Terenzini states its 
 approximately $115,000. 
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, questions what that appropriation will be 
 going to. Carter Terenzini states this hasn’t been settled yet. Today the retiree 
 health insurance rates were received, and they went up 19.3%. Carter 
 Terenzini anticipates presenting a formal proposal at the Select Board 
 meeting on November 5th.   
Ana Lockwood states that free cash has grown tremendously and inquires  
 where that is coming from. Carter Terenzini states there were a lot of projects 
 that didn’t get completed due to supply chain, delays in getting materials, 
 and issues related to Covid.  
Dave Passios, formally 56 Whiting Street and registered voter in the Town of 
Lunenburg but currently residing in JeƯerson, NH proposed there needs to be 
a review of the practices that are used to fund capital projects. 
Article 2: The Town has received $31,882 in Chapter 70 money. The School   
  Committee asked that be allotted to the School Committee and the Select  
  Board agrees. They intend to use that money to supplement their salary  
  reserve, to address critical staƯing, and compensate short falls.  
Chris Menard also believes the Chapter 70 money should be applied to the 
schools as voted on by the legislature. He did note that the funding has 
ﬂuctuated and decreased in past years.  
===PAGE 4===
Article 3:  This article is to authorize a payment of 1 late bill totaling $4,180 with a  
  transfer from the overlay reserve. This is from Canon for the copiers in the 
   school department.   
Article 4: This article is related to the MART program. The MART program provides  
  rides for seniors, teenagers, and those with mobility issues. They deliver 400  
  rides a month to 70 unique users. $20,000 will come from the overlay surplus 
  reserve for appropriation. MART will be present at the Special Town Meeting.  
Rhonda Liscio,181 Reservoir Road, asked if this program started through a 
 state grant. Carter Terenzini is unsure as this was prior to his start date with 
 the town. 
Dave Passios believes this grant has a sunset grant built into it but was miss 
 shuƯled because it was mid ﬁscal year. 
Article 5: This article is related to investments and trust funds. Currently there are  
  restrictions on the types of investments, stocks, and deposits that town can  
  do. This will allow more ﬂexibility with a little more risk but may increase the  
  yields. 
The Select Board inquired about how many towns have adopted this. Carter 
 Terenzini believes there are at least 20 plus communities.  
Article 6: This article is related to COLA and clauses relative to tax exemptions.  
  Carter Terenzini states previously there were 2 provisions accepted but in  
  order for COLA to be applied there are clauses that need to be adopted. 
Jay Simeone questions who found out that these clauses had not been 
 adopted. Carter Terenzini conﬁrms the new assessor noticed the numbers 
 didn’t match up with her experience. After some digging these clauses were 
 not in the DOR database or the town books.  
Article 7: This is an article from the Water Supply Protection District and there were  
  no questions.    
Article 8: This article is related to setting up a revolving fund for the Council on  
  Aging.  Currently, the contributions for the meals are being paid in cash and  
  held at the adult activity center. It is then used to purchase supplies and  
  food. The handling of cash in this manner is non-conforming by statue and 
   generally not a good accounting practice. This article would create a   
  revolving fund. The money received for the meals program would be   
  submitted to the treasurer’s collection. From there an account would be set  
===PAGE 5===
  up with the venders, vendors could then submit a bill, that would   
  subsequently be provided to the accounting department. The proposed set  
  limit for the year is $16,000. 
Article 9: This article is requesting a revolving fund for the Parks Department be  
  established under a provision of statues. There are some provisions that  
  state if there is an excess of $10,000 at the end of the ﬁscal year then that  
  money is supposed to go into the general fund.  
Article 10: This article is a request from the Architectural Preservation District  
  Commission related to the Brooks House. They have requested that the  
  Board of Selectman obtain a study of the Brooks House property to  
  determine if it’s possible to sell or lease the house.  
Anthony Sculimbrene believes if the Brooks House is kept then money will 
 need to be spent but will turn into an asset rather than a liability.  
Dave Passios states there is a problem with perpetual parking easements on 
 town property for potential private business entities.  
Glenn Mcleod, 436 Reservoir Road, believes selling the property would be a 
 mistake and that the town would lose control of the small parcel within the 
 larger parcel.  
Chris Menard believes that given the other needs of the town that money isn’t 
 available to spend to rehabilitate that building.  
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street, is a member of the School Committee 
and the Capital Planning Committee but speaking on behalf of himself. He 
questions who controls the property that the Brooks House sits on. Dave 
Passios believes all property lines are documented in schematic reports. 
Article 11: This article is related to employment and hiring. The article addresses a  
  sick leave bank, incentive program, and holiday time for part time employees 
  on their usually scheduled workdays. 
Glenn McLeod believes that the vacation time should be maxed if the 
employee brings their expertise to the town and shouldn’t be limited. 
Additionally, he believes the pay rate and stage can be determined by the 
Town Manager and the Chair of the Personnel Committee.  
Article 12: This article is related to the salary administration plan and amendments.  
  There were no questions. 
===PAGE 6===
Article 13: This article is a presentation by town bodies including the Municipal  
  Design Committee and the Budget Task Force. There were no questions.  
Article 14 & Article 15” The articles were citizen petitions for Marshall Park. Ana  
  Lockwood was the citizen petitioner, and she intends to ask that these  
  articles be passed over. 
Dave Passios questions where they were in the process of getting grants 
approved. Anita Scheipers conﬁrms that there were 6 grants applied for. Last 
budget season the Finance Committee approved a line item in general 
government for $50,000 for grant writing services. Dave Passios believes that 
money should be used in this ﬁscal year to move this process forward.   
There was a motion to close the public hearing by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom Gray. All 
in favor.  
8. New Business 
  a. Recommendations on Warrant Articles 
   Article 1: There was a motion to defer recommendations to town meeting  
    until ﬁnal numbers are available by Tom Gray, seconded by Jay  
    Simeone. All in favor. Deferral was recommended 5-0. 
Article 2: There was a motion to recommend approval by Tom Gray, seconded 
   by Jean Russell. All in favor. Approval was recommended 5-0.  
Article 3: There was a motion to recommend approval by Tom Gray, seconded 
   by Jay Simeone. All in favor. Approval was recommended 5-0. 
Article 4: There was a motion to recommend approval by Jean Russell,  
   seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. Approval was    
   recommended 5-0. 
Article 5: There was a motion to recommend approval by Tom Gray, seconded 
   by Jean Russell. The vote was 4-0-1 for approval. 
   Jay Simeone supports this article but states there are no  
   budgeted numbers thus he doesn’t see a direct ﬁnancial  
   impact. 
Article 6: There was a motion to recommend approval despite there being no  
   direct ﬁnancial impact by Chris Menard, seconded by Tom  
   Gray.  The vote was 4 -0-1 for approval.  
===PAGE 7===
Article 7: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Tom Gray,   
   seconded by Jean Russell. All in favor. 
Article 8: There was a motion to recommend approval despite there being no  
   direct ﬁnancial impact by Jay Simeone, seconded by Jean  
   Russell.  Approval was recommended 5-0. 
Article 9: There was a motion to recommend approval by Jean Russell,  
   seconded by Tanya Dall. The vote was 4 -0-1 for approval. 
Article 10: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Tom Gray,  
   seconded by Jay Simeone. All in favor. 
Article 11: There was a motion to recommend approval by Tom Gray,   
   seconded by Chris Menard. The Committee recommended  
   approval 4-1. 
Article 12: There was a motion to recommend approval by Chris Menard,  
   seconded by Tom Gray. The Committee recommended   
   approval 4-1. 
Article 13: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Chris Menard,  
   seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. The motion passed 5-0. 
Article 14: There was a motion to defer by Chris Menard, seconded by Tom  
   Gray. All in favor. 
Article 15: There was a motion to defer by Chris Menard, seconded by Tom  
   Gray. All in favor. 
b. Liaison Re-assignments 
   There was discussion about the school and budget task force liaison. Jean  
  Russell was the second on the budget task force and will now be the primary. 
  If she is unavailable Tom Gray agreed to be a second. Jean Russell also  
  agreed to be the school liaison. 
9. Old Business 
  a. Budget Presentation Template  
   There were no discussions about this topic. 
b. Town Manager Search Committee Update 
   Chris Menard states there hasn’t been a recent meeting. 
===PAGE 8===
c. Budget Task Force 
   There were no discussions about this topic. 
d. Project 211 (School Funding Formula) 
   There were no discussions about this topic. 
e. Grant Writing Services 
   There were no discussion about this topic. 
f. Consolidation of Services/Departments 
   There were no discussions about this topic. 
10. Minutes 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes from August 22, September 12 and 
 September 26th of 2024 by Tom Gray, seconded by Jean Russell. The vote was 3-2.   
Tom Gray is going to send the minutes to the town clerk and move the minutes over 
 to the approved folder. 
11. Committee Reports 
  Jay Simeone states that the Sewer Commission met. They have been looking for a 
 business manager, but the prospects have not worked out.  They are changing 
 direction and looking to hire a part-time sewer business manager. Several 
 applications have been received.  
Chris Menard conﬁrms that the Capital Planning Committee met twice. The 
 presentations for schools and facilities took place.  
12. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There were no suggested actions or topics for future meetings. 
13. Important Dates 
  a. 11.2.2024 – MMA ATFC Annual Meeting 9AM– 2:15PM Sharon Community Center 
  b. 11.12.2024 – Special Town Meeting 7PM Lunenburg Middle High School 
14. Upcoming Meetings 
  a. 11/7/2024 (if necessary) 
15. Public Comment 
  Dave Passios asks if the edits he provided from the last meeting were added and 
 Chris Menard conﬁrms they were added. Additionally, Dave Passios will email 
 Carter  Terenzini a reminder that smart growth needs to be applied for every year. 
 Lastly, he states that Senator Cronin mentioned at a prior meeting that the 
 Department of Local Services has a program that if the Select Board votes to invite 
===PAGE 9===
 them into the  town they will do a top to bottom inside and outside audit of 
 procedures and town operations for free. They can come up with recommendations 
  and corrective actions.   
16. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 9:55 PM. 
 