===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
February 8, 2024   
 
Members Present: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tiffaney Tavares, 
Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean Russell, Board Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Members: Board Member Tom Gray 
1. Call to Order 
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
 No announcements. 
4. Public Comment 
 No public or Committee comment. 
5. Old Business 
a. Town Grant Writer Letter 
Dave Passios is drafting a letter to submit to the Select Board and the Town 
Manager advocating for the position of grant writer. When the Committee 
inquired about this possibility the Town Manager stated it depends on 
funding availability.  
Dave Passios suggests a 19-hour part time non benefited position, or a 19-
hour shared position between the school and the Town. He mentioned that 
for most of the grants there should be a way to write in the administrative 
costs. Dave Passios suggest that the Clerk, Tiffaney Tavares, formally finalize 
a letter and send on behalf of the Committee to the Board of Selectman and 
he Town Manager. Tiffaney Tavares is happy to send that email and will work 
on a draft. Tiffaney Tavares asks when the Committee would like to see this 
drafted. Chris Menard questions the timing of this request. Evan Watters is 
advocating that this request be added to the FY 25 budget.  
Laura Veran- 389 Mulpus Road- states there are 3,000 professional grant 
writers in the New England chapter. There is money out there, it’s just a 
matter of finding it. Laura Veran suggests creating a communication and 
organizing a way that this can be successfully executed.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Anna Lockwood- 91 Main Street- suggests creating a grant writing committee 
within the town. Also, Anna Lockwood is suggesting that there be 
communications with the Green Community Committee as they have aware 
as to what grants may be available.  
b. FY25 Budget Update/Discussion 
i. Budget Options 
Tiffaney Tavares inquiries into how many departments are 
submitting budgets to the Finance Committee. Evan Watters 
confirms there are roughly 12 departments submitting 
budgets. The Town Manager requests a needs-based budget 
and a budget within the constraints of what’s being allocated 
for an increase year over year. The department heads then 
submit those budgets to the Town Manager who then sends 
them to the Committee.   
 
Evan Watters discusses publishing the spreadsheet used 
during the presentations to the website. Tiffaney Tavares and 
Chris Menard all agree that they should be published.  
 
ii. Health Insurance Numbers 
The percentage received relative to health insurance was 5.7% 
and the state average is 6.6%. 
 
iii. Department Consolidation/Sharing of Resources 
Evan Watters spoke to the Town Manager about combining 
departments and facilities. Heather Lemieux doesn’t think it 
makes financial sense to combine the departments. Chris 
Menard believes we should be sharing resources and the same 
IT department. In Heather Lemieux’s email, she states that she 
is open to hearing the pros and cons.  
 
Jay Simeone states that typically only schools and towns are 
separated. The Committee is requesting a meeting with the 
Superintendent and the Town Manger to discuss why we can or 
can’t consolidate facilities. Evan Watters thinks this may be a 
conversation to have after FY 26. 
 
iv. Levy Override 
===PAGE 3===
Evan Watters reached out to the town’s attorney about the 
language and the necessary process for a levy override. He has 
yet to hear back. 
 
Dave Passios shares that at the last Select Board meeting 
there was only 1 member that spoke up about what he 
believed were excuses rather than solutions.  
 
Evan Watters emailed all department heads requesting a full 
level service budget. Evan Watters wants to know how the 
department heads feel about whether the town is providing the 
services that are needed and within the budget constraints 
they have been required to follow. 
 
Chis Menard thinks there are other ways of making up money. 
Chris Menard believes that the town has a millionaire’s tax that 
has driven away revenue from this town where the money is 
supposed to have gone to the school and infrastructure. The 
pressure needs to go on to beacon hill and he’s very 
disappointed in our legislators.  
 
For further discussion, this topic will be added to the upcoming 
meeting agendas. 
  
v. School Budget & Point Person Update 
Evan Watters received an email from the Superintendent with a 
level service budget. The Town Manager has requested a 2.5% 
increase which totals $575,961. The differential from the 
school departments for a level increase is 10.59% for a total of 
2.4 million dollars.  
The Committee states that the school makes up 50% of the 
budget.  
Chris Menard questions why the electricity was up 66.2%. He 
doesn’t understand where this is coming from and didn’t think 
electricity rates went up that much. Evan Watters states that 
the previous school director greatly underestimated the needs.  
Tiffaney Tavares asks if a rate can be locked in with Unitil and if 
aggregated rates are offered. The Town Manager has already 
===PAGE 4===
been in discussion for the renewal which happens in 2024. The 
rates are expected to go down from where they are now. 
Chris Menard asked why the building maintenance was up 
$100,000.  Additionally, collaborative tuition was up $180,000 
and there is question if that factors in any estimates on the 
circuit breaking. 
Dave Passios asked for a population breakdown of the last 3 
years in the school district. Evan Watters states that student 
enrollment is available in the drive. There is a question of how 
many students are being affected by the staff cuts. Evan 
Watters states there has been discussion at the school 
meeting and the report for the class size has increased but not 
by much. 
Tiffaney Tavares asks why the line item for high school student 
counselor was raised so significantly. 
The Superintendent, Kate Burnham, will send an email 
addressing all the above referenced questions. The special ed 
director has prepared a presentation on circuit breaking and 
this will be provided at the next School Committee meeting on 
February 28th.  
6. New Business 
 No new business to discuss.  
7. Minutes – 1/18/2024 & 1/25/2024 
Motion to approve minutes from January 18th and January 25th by Chris Menard, 
seconded by Dave Passios. 5 to 1 vote. 
Chris Menard questions if all the minutes have been posted on the website. Evan 
Watters will look but believes all minutes have been received. 
8. Committee Reports 
Dave Passios shares that the Green Community Committee had a meeting where he 
learned about grant rounds and that there is a grant cap of $200,000 per grant 
round. Additionally, all grants need to be closed out by a certain date.  
Regarding facilities, the facilities director has been in contact with Unitil. A request 
was submitted for an energy assessment and that is moving forward. 
 
===PAGE 5===
Chris Menard watched the Board of Assessors meeting and there was a 
recommendation to vote to add $122,000 to the overlay account. Chris Menard is 
unclear why the Board wants to add that additional money since the account 
already has a large balance. There will be future discussions.  Also discussed was 
that the assessment for condos were up about 20%. Dave Passios states that the 
Board has been very open and gives a very detail detailed explanation of exactly 
what they’re doing. 
Evan Watters states there was a Board of Health meeting, and the budget was up 
10% to $60,000.     
9. Topics for Future Meetings 
 There was no discussion about topics for future meetings. 
10. Upcoming Meetings 
a. Feb 15th – TM’s Preliminary Budget Presentation & 5 yr Financial Forecast 
b. Feb 22nd – Land Use, Council on Aging, & Library 
c. Feb 29th – Information Technology & Police 
d. Mar 7th – DPW & Facilities 
e. Mar 14th – Fire & Lunenburg Public Schools 
f. Mar 20th – Monty Tech & Administration, Unclassified, & Debt Services 
g. Mar 21st – Public Access Committee, Sewer, & Other Monied Articles – Lunenburg 
Public School Update 
11. Important Dates 
a. Jan 9th-Mar 18th – Town Meeting Warrant Open 
b. Mar 28th – FinCom Public Hearing 
c. Apr 2nd – FinCom Report for Warrant  
d. May 4th – Annual Town Meeting 
e. May 18th – Annual Town Election 
12. Public Comment 
Dave Passios states that he enjoyed the younger generation being involved in the 
town process, especially during budget season. Dave Passios is hoping they 
continue to be involved.   
===PAGE 6===
13. Adjourn 
 Motion to adjourn by Chris Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 9:11PM. 
 