===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
March 21, 2024 
 
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tiffaney Tavares, 
Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean Russell 
(Zoom), Board Member Jay Simeone 
1. Call to Order 
 The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements 
 There were no announcements. 
 
4. Public Comment 
Mary Foyle, 985 Flat Hill Road, spoke as the President of the Lunenburg 
Education Association. Mary Foyle wanted to clarify that the $4,300 is the 
amount of money that separates a first-year teacher with a bachelors in 
Lunenburg from being eligible for government assistance programs. She 
doesn’t believe the Finance Committee is working with accurate data or they 
don’t fully understand the data they are using. Mary Foyle asks the 
Committee to do their due diligence and fact checking.  
 
Rhonda Lisio,181 Reservoir Road, made a comment about whether the 
Finance Committee is going to vote on the override prior to it being on the 
warrant. Rhonda Lisio believes that some people look through the warrant 
and think nothing is being contested so these must be necessary things.  
 
5. Minutes 
a. 2/20/24, 2/21/24, 2/22/24, 2/29/24, 3/7/24 
Dave Passios is concerned about the wording related to Mr. Beardmores 
comment and wants another member to review. 
   
Jay Simeone is requesting a link be added to the minutes for the YouTube 
recording. Additionally, any public documents should be added as part of the 
minutes.  
===PAGE 2===
At 9 minutes and 30 seconds the audio cuts out for a few minutes so I’m not sure who 
made the motion or seconded. Additionally, I believe the minutes that weren’t 
approved were the 22nd but that was not audible in the recording, so I just want to 
double check. 
 
Motion to approve the minutes from 2/20/24, 2/21/24, 2/29/24, 3/7/24 by    , 
seconded by   . Roll call vote. 
Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, 
Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye, 
6. Town Manager Report 
 
7. Finance Director Report 
 
Audio returns around 12 minutes 29 seconds. I didn’t see Heathers report or the 
finance directors report.  
8. New Business 
a. Public Access Committee FY25 Budget Presentation  
The Chair of the Public Access Cable Committee, Steve Walker, presented 
their budget. 
The Public Access Cable Committees mission is to establish, develop, 
modernize, and operate the town of Lunenburg’s public educational and 
government channels. The amount of content has grown and is now shared 
on a nationwide media database. 
Some recent accomplishments include: 
- Improvement of the production quality of town meetings by using 4 
cameras and direct inputs for presentations and a voting machine. 
- Increased overall amount of government meetings recorded and 
broadcast. 
- Continuing local programming growth 
 
PACC oversees Channel 22, which has been in operation for 4 years. The channel is 
populated with local and educational database content. Additionally, the School 
Committee is aired 3 times a week and high school sports are aired 2 times a week.  
Locally produced programs that are not governmental are played on channel 9.  
Between FY 22 and FY 23 there was a 242% increase in broadcasting middle and 
high school sports. 
===PAGE 3===
Finances 
The franchise fees from Comcast are the principal source of the PAC income and 
are reserved for PAC capital improvements and operations. This does not affect the 
town budgets.  
Enterprise fund reserved for fitting out and equipping the new studio space. Some of 
the funds from the enterprise fund have been invested in short-term bonds per the 
town treasurer to manage inflation. 
Evan Watters asks if there is a timeline for planning the buildout for the studio. Steve 
Walker says there is not and it’s dependent on having a building with enough space. 
Currently PAC takes up 900 square feet in TC Passios. The new space is going to be 
roughly 3 times that size. 
 Anticipated income for FY 25: 
  - Comcast $194,304 
                           - Regular interest $13,499 
               - Bond interest $30,960  
 This totals $238,763 minus the reserve funds comes to $207,803. 
The contract with Comcast is in effect until February 2028.  
 There are 2 employees 
  1 employee works 36 hours a week at a rate of $33.97. 
  The other employee works 20 hours a week at a rate of $24.04. 
FY 25 budget summary 
- Salaries $126,643 
- Indirect costs $27,930 
- Operations $24,200  
The total budget for operations is $178,773. 
ARPA Funding 
 $50,700 ARPA funding was received and includes 3 categories of improvements 
  1. Videographer kits: $12,000 
               2. Studio: $34,300 
               3. Broadcast Audio: $4,400 
There is potential legislature for a bill called the Act to Modernize Funding for 
Community Media. This is a proposition of a 5% fee on digital streaming providers, 
based on a company’s gross annual revenue in the state. 
Monies collected at State level are disbursed as follows: 
- 20% to state general fund 
===PAGE 4===
- 40% to municipalities  
- 40% community media 
Chris Menard questions if it has been confirmed that this is coming to Lunenburg. Steve 
Walker states they are currently waiting for information but confirms that the monies 
that come into the State would be distributed or dispersed by the population.  
Proposed Warrant Article 
There is a request to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available funds, a sum of money to fund the FY 25 Public Educational 
Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating and capital budgets; or take any 
other action relative thereto. 
Tiffaney Tavares asks what the line item for consultant services is for. Steve Walker 
states that the cost is for a technician to come in on an hourly basis to solve 
complex problems.  
Evan Watters questions if the upgraded studio includes switching over to some type 
of high-definition system or if that is an additional expense. Steve Walker states the 
present contract allows for 1 high-definition channel. All current equipment being 
used is high definition.  
b. Public Comment on Public Access Committee Budget 
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, is concerned about the dropping revenue and 
how much is being spent on operations. The rent is still $6,000 and has been since 
2012. A 3,000 square foot place seems like a lot of space especially since most of 
the programming is generated outside. Steve Walker states its size is comparable to 
other towns. Additionally, they are looking at creating a podcast which will require 
additional space. 
c. School Department FY25 Budget Presentation 
The preliminary budget was presented by Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham, 
Chairperson Carol Archambault from the School Committee, and Julianna 
Hanscom Director of Special Services  
The mission of the schools is to provide all students with skills, confidence, and 
passion for lifelong learning so that they may find their own path to successful 
careers, active citizenship and rewarding lives.  
Student Enrollment           
 The average class size for the 2023-2024 school year ranged between 17-25 
 students apart from pre-k ranging 11-13 students. 
===PAGE 5===
2023-2024 homeschool data 
• 4 students have returned to the district. 
• 19 students have moved or reported attending other schools in the State. 
• 37 students have homeschool plans approved by the district. 
• 14 students (families) in the district are still working on plan/status. 
 
Student count on IEPS 
• Lunenburg Primary School: 79 students 
• Turkey Hill Elementary School: 61 students 
• Lunenburg Middle School: 62 students 
• Lunenburg High School: 46 students 
• ACE Program: 7 students 
The district will evaluate at least 110 students this year to determine eligibility for 
special education services. 
Students on Section 504 from 2023-2024 
• Lunenburg Primary School: 8 students 
• Turkey Hill Elementary School: 33 students 
• Lunenburg Middle School: 51students 
• Lunenburg High School: 69 students 
• ACE Program: 0 students 
This includes students with either identified disability or a suspected disability. 
This does not involved specialized education.  
Board Certified Behavior Analysists BCBA Caseload for FY 24 
• Lunenburg Primary School: 44 students 
• Turkey Hill Elementary School: 25 students 
• Lunenburg Middle School:  23 students 
• Lunenburg High School: 24 students 
• Out of District: 3 students 
 
Evan Watters asked if the numbers for BCBAs in the school is catching up to 
needs or if they are climbing. Dr. Kate Burnham believes the teachers may be 
more in tune with what they need to be looking for and how to approach getting 
students’ assistance and support. There is a referral process before they get to 
the level of special education. 
 
Evan Watters questions if the parents are aware if their child is going through a 
referral process. Dr. Kate Burnham confirms there is communication. 
===PAGE 6===
Behavioral Health Update & Response 
Mental Health Crisis/ Hospitalizations - Section 12 
Middle/High School: 0 hospitalizations from 2023–2024 
Middle/High School: 1 hospitalization in the Middle school in 2022-2023.  
 
Hospitalizations requiring tutoring. 
2023-2024: 4 students (data up to 1/11/24) 
2022-2023: 16 students 
2021- 2022: 4 students 
 
Chris Menard asks if this data shows a student being hospitalized on multiple 
occasions. Dr. Kate Burnham states there were 2 or 3 individuals that had multiple 
hospitalizations last year. 
 
Tiffaney Tavares asks how the 16 hospitalizations affect the budget. Dr. Kate 
Burnham states there are programs where students who might be coming back from 
a hospitalization are transitioned into a smaller setting to ease back in. This 
classroom was always offered as a fall back if students were having trouble.  
There is also a budget line for hospital tutoring and last year that line was 
underfunded.  
 
Tiffaney Tavares questions if there is tutoring for non-behavior related medical 
issues. Dr. Kate Burnham confirms that is the case and isn’t aware of any trends. 
Grants 
Esser grants were used in FY 21 to FY 24. The intent of these funds was primarily to 
address the covid impact. The 2 biggest priority areas of impact were social 
emotional mental health and academic learning loss.  
Tiffaney Tavares raised concern relating to learning loss for students. She is of the 
opinion that students who have gone from elementary school this past year and are 
now in middle school were not prepared for having homework and the rigorous 
schedule. Tiffaney Tavares believes this is because there was not a plan in place for 
elementary school students to have homework and doesn’t believe that has 
changed this year. She is concerned and curious if the clinicians are going to see a 
heavier workload and reoccurring problems.  
Dr. Kate Burnham states the strategy is pedagogy. If you look at academic 
performance of the Turkey Hill Elementary School, its increased during the years 
when there hasn’t been mandatory homework. At home they are to prioritize free 
===PAGE 7===
reading. Teaching children time management is not the first right answer for why we 
give homework. It should be connected to the learning outcome. 
Tiffaney Tavares disagrees and encourages Dr. Burnham to sit through a sixth-grade 
classroom. The amount of work is shocking, and the teachers are stressed out from 
having to acclimate those students and spending resources to try to decrease the 
stress levels in that middle school because kids are not prepared.  She questions if 
they wouldn’t need as many clinicians and time could be stretched differently if 
there weren’t as many anxieties thus have a little less on their plate.  
Loss of Esser Funds 
Tiffaney Tavares asks what is happening with the position cuts of the PE teacher for 
the primary and elementary schools. Dr. Kate Burnham shares that most of their 
unified arts for the last 3 years have been shared. One building will have their 
specials scheduled in the morning and the other building will have their specials 
scheduled in the afternoon.  
Chris Menard asked when the cuts are announced to the teacher or the union. Dr. 
Kate Burnham confirms they are trying to figure out what the cuts could potentially 
be before she goes to a public meeting. The individuals attached to these positions 
will meet and have a discussion. These conversations are timed tightly just in 
advance of a list of positions being discussed at public meetings. Dr. Kate Burnham 
emails out regular updates. 
Chris Menard states there have been times in the past at the last moment where 
chapter 70 funds were increased by our legislature. This was due to a statewide 
problem. Heather Lemieux states it would take another town meeting vote to make 
those adjustments.  
Every year federal grants are received, also known as entitlement grants. The state 
grants need to actively be pursued. There is no primary grant writer position. 
Typically, it’s the lead person that would be connected to that grant area. 
FY 25 Budget Priorities  
Factors underlying the need for reductions for FY 25 
• Health insurance increases $500,000 
• Contractual increases $400,000 
• Loss of COVID grant funding $600,000 
 
       The Town Mangers budget calculations reflecting a 2.94% increase 
Total school department budget for FY 24 $22,878,443  
Plus, the 2.94% increase of $672,262. 
===PAGE 8===
The Town Managers 2.94% increase totals $23,551,069 
 
The Town Managers revised budget reflecting a 4.19% increase. 
Addition of new growth $236,025 
Addition of monies from the pavement management plan $50,000 
The Town Managers budget with the 4.19% increase totals $23,837,094 
 
At the Select Board meeting on March 19, 2024, there was a vote to approve 
reallocating $101,640 that was previously allocated for sidewalks. 
Chris Menard states going forward with a 7-digit override number is a much 
harder ask than a 6 digit and may be more palatable to residents. Carol 
Archambault thoughts were if we went with a $700,000 override the problem 
is we will be doing this over again next year because that’s not enough to 
raise the base. 
Tom Gray questions if we have a million dollar override this year what 
happens with the additional $200,000 requested. If we are doing an override 
and we are going to be taxing the people $221,000. He wants to know where 
that money will go. 
Carol Archambault doesn’t think it would be a problem to find places for that 
money. We’re not going to get an override 2 years in a row. If the override goes 
and it’s not enough, then what happens. We will always have major 
maintenance, football field repairs, and reoccurring Chromebook expense 
every year.  
Peter Beardmore, 282Pleasant Street, the numbers have changed on an 
almost daily basis for the past 2 weeks. The School Committee voted on the 
pink column the night before. That is the absolute minimum amount of 
money needed to operate the schools without massive disruptions. This still 
includes a lot of cuts. The maintenance requests for next year are going to be 
double those of this year. The rationale behind the roughly 1-million-dollar 
override is the difference between the budget base and what the Town 
Manager has offered and put on the warrant. This is not putting money aside 
from the override.  
Chris Menard wants more understanding of the rationale behind the override 
figure that was obtained. We need a clear answer from the Select Board who 
will be putting a number on a piece of paper, the School Committee, and the 
finance department to make a recommendation. That recommendation 
needs to be made within a week. We need to plan operations in capital, 
infrastructure and everything needed for the next 10 years.  
===PAGE 9===
d. Public Comment on School Department Budget 
TJ Laughlin, 207 Rolling Acres Road, states he is seeing a common trend. This 
is the 4th meeting where people have said they don’t know what they’re 
looking at and people need to come back with the facts. How can we 
educate the public when none of it is being stabilized. This process is not all 
inclusive. Why? Who is responsible for making this an all-inclusive process 
because the Select Board has not acted, and you guys have not acted.  
 
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street, asks if the Committee has received or 
heard anything about the salary administration plan or the salary gap that 
was discussed a few weeks ago. Evan Watters states we have received that 
information this afternoon. What we’re seeing is the MO of the Town Manager 
and Peter Beardmore wants to know who is going to hold her responsible. 
Believes the chair of the select board and the Town Manager made this plan 
in the beginning of February to shift the burden onto the school department. 
Somebody needs to show some leadership and it certainly isn’t coming from 
the executive of this town. 
 
Mary Foyle, 985 Flat Hill Road, has worked at Lunenburg public school and 
states we have never had good programming. We have been the bare 
minimum and suggest using ARPA funding for programming. Mary Foyle 
appreciates the work of everyone. 
The Town Manager states there are a lot of untruths in the previous speakers’ 
comments tonight. She states she is looking at local receipts and needs to 
look at historically what has been estimated versus actuals.  
Tiffaney Tavares believes Dr. Burnham needs to also take accountability. This 
isn’t only about looking at the numbers. It’s about the school as a whole and 
how this is affecting teachers and can we operate differently to save money, 
to save time, to save stress. Sometimes someone else needs to step in and 
look closely and find different possible perspectives.  
Jean Russell thanks Dr. Kate Burnham for her presentation. 
e. Other Monied Articles Presentation 
This presentation did not take place.  
 
f. Public Comment on Other Monied Articles Presentation 
The other monied articles presentation did not take place. 
 
g. Warrant Article Discussion 
This discussion did not take place. 
===PAGE 10===
 
h. FinCom Report for Warrant Discussion 
This discussion did not take place. 
 
9. Old Business  
a. FY21-FY23 Revenue and Expenditures Recap Discussion 
This topic was not discussed. 
b. FY 25 Budget Update/Discussion 
This topic was not discussed. 
i. Previous FY25 Presentations 
This topic was not discussed. 
10. Minutes 
This topic was tabled until the next meeting. 
 
11. Committee Reports 
There were no committee reports. 
 
12. Topics for Future Meetings 
This topic was not discussed. 
13. Upcoming FY25 Budget Meetings 
a. Mar 28th – FinCom Public Hearing 
b. Apr 1st – FinCom Special Meeting (Remote) 
c. Apr 4th – FinCom Special Meeting 
 
14. Important Dates  
Apr 5th – FinCom Report for Warrant  
May 4th – Annual Town Meeting  
May 18th – Annual Town Election 
 
15. Public Comment 
Tom Gray states that since this started, I have seen people working really hard trying 
to do the right thing whatever that may be. We will get through this as a town, and we 
will move on.  
 
16.  Adjourn 
There was a motion to adjourn by Chris Menard, seconded by Tiffaney Tavares. 
Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye, 
The meeting closed at 11:29 PM. 