===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
September 25, 2025 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Committee Member Ana Lockwood, 
Committee Member Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jay Simeone, Town Manager 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment 
Absent Members: Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member 
 Tanya Dall 
1.  Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  The Finance Director, Ezequiel Ayala, has given his notice and his last day will be  
 October 24, 2025. A Certiﬁed Public Accountant, Eric Kinsherf, will be brought in to 
 assist the town. The Finance Director position was posted and interviews were 
 completed . The position has been oƯered and accepted by Katie McKenna. She is 
 the prior Finance Director for the Town of Oxford. Her ﬁrst day will be October 20, 
 2026. 
The Payroll and Beneﬁts Administrator, Nancy O’Rourke, is retiring at the end of 
 October. Interviews are ongoing. A consultant will be hired to assist while the 
 position is being ﬁlled. 
The Assistant Accountant, Amy Driggers, is leaving her position to work in 
 Leominster at the Comptroller’s OƯice. Stephen Barrett will be handling accounts 
 payable on Wednesdays and Fridays. 
 The Town Manager states an audit for FY 2024 has not been completed. There is an 
  ongoing merger between auditors thus causing a delay 
The Town Meeting Warrant remains open until October 2nd. 
===PAGE 2===
6. Current Business 
  a. Master Planning Committee requested data 
   Chris Menard received the questionnaire and added it to the Shareﬁle folder  
  for the Committee to review.  
   After discussion with Matt Brenner, it was determined that there was a  
  ﬁnancial impact and/or budget associated with several of the questions on  
  the questionnaire.   
   There was a motion to approve the Finance Committee recommendations on 
  the Master Planning Committee feedback documents by Ana Lockwood,  
  seconded by Jay Simeone. All in favor. 
                b. Upcoming Tri Board Topics 
    i. Public Safety 
    ii. DPW 
    iii. Facilities 
      The Town Manager conﬁrms there have been meetings with    
   department heads over the last several weeks. One of their main   
   goals is to ﬁnd any areas where needs are not being met and to   
   address any issues. 
   Ana Lockwood suggests not looking at small budget items such as name  
  tags.  If there are any major changes the ideas should be vetted among the  
  groups to discuss and come to a resolution.  
c. Special Town Meeting Warrant 
     The Special Town Meeting is scheduled for November 18, 2025. The    
  Town Manager has sent the drafted warrants to the Committee. There was a  
  brief discussion about the drafted warrants. 
 
  There was some discussion about the roof repair of TC Passios. The Town  
  Manager and Facilities Director recommend not going forward with a partial  
  repair of the roof. 
7. Old Business 
  a. Town Finance Policies review and discussion 
   The Town Manager is working on edits and corrections. This document will be 
  presented to the Committee once completed.  
   Ana Lockwood inquires if there is a timeframe that this document needs to  
===PAGE 3===
  be ﬁnalized. The Town Manager would like to have the Town Finance   
  Policies completed by the end of the calendar year. 
b. Prior Tri-Board Meetings 
   There were no discussions or comments. 
c. Analysis of historical and current school budget data 
   Ana Lockwood and Chris Menard questioned the Superintendent and the  
  new Business Manager, Chris McNamara, about their budget. There was  
  inquiry about where a large portion of money went for the current ﬁscal  
  year. Chris Menard forwarded an email to the Committee from the   
  Superintendent that addressed some of the questions. 
 It was determined that Chris McNamara can run ﬁnancial    
  reports in Munis and anticipates providing that document on a quarterly  
  basis. 
Ana Lockwood will provide updates to the Committee when they are 
 received. There are still several questions outstanding.  
8. Minutes – Aug 14, July 8 (Tri-Board) 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes from August 14, 2025, by Ana 
 Lockwood, seconded by Jay Simeone. All in favor. 
 Chris Menard will conﬁrm whether the minutes from July 8th have been added to the 
 ShareFile. 
9. Committee Reports 
  There were no Committee reports. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  Special Town Meeting Warrant 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings –Sept 30, Oct 14, Nov 12, Dec 9, Jan 13 
  b. Finance Committee – Oct 9, Oct 23 
12. Public Comment 
 There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Jay Simeone. All in  
 favor.             The meeting closed at 7:52 PM. 