===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
May 8, 2025 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell (Zoom), Clerk Tom Gray, 
   Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana Lockwood,  
   Committee Member Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jay   
   Simeone (Zoom) 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  Ana Lockwood was contacted by a vendor partaking in the fair on Saturday. They are 
 in need of volunteers for the dunk tank and are inquiring with Boards and 
 Commissions for participants.  
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports for the Town Manager or the Finance Director. 
6. New Business 
   a. Post Annual Town Meeting discussion and recommendations 
   Chris Menard thanked everyone on the Committee for their work and   
  completing the budget season. 
Tom Gray felt the moderator did a great job and there were no issues with 
technology. There are upcoming elections, and he is encouraging everyone to 
vote. 
Jean Russell heard from several residents that the three large expensive 
articles were overwhelming. She suggests staggering or breaking down 
articles into multiple town meetings. Jay Simeone agrees and states it is 
difficult to pass any additional money articles with the severe budgetary 
impact of the schools. 
b. FY27 budget process and improvements 
   
===PAGE 2===
Chris Menard confirms the school committee selected the new 
Superintendent, Dr. Jodi Fortuna. All interviews are available online for 
review. 
Chris Menard believes budgeting should be an all-year process and not 
completed within a few months. Additionally, department heads should have 
their presentations in February and march. Chris Menard suggests the 
Committee should review if self-sustained programs are truly self-sustained.  
Tanya Dall suggests holding preliminary budget presentations starting in the 
fall. She suggests creating a template with a budget tool for all departments 
to utilize for presentations. 
Tom Gray suggests that the Town Manager ask departments to start working 
on their budget for FY27 now. A general calculation should be made and 
there are variables that can be determined in advance. Chris Menard 
confirms there are categories that are predictable including new growth, 
salary, and Chapter 7. 
c. Summer schedule and focus areas  
  Tanya Dall suggests inviting the Town Manager and the new Superintendent 
 of Schools to the next meeting to inquire about what they would like to see in 
 the future. The Committee agrees to hold one meeting for the months of June 
 and July. Chris Menard will speak to the Town Manager and inquire about 
 having a meeting with the new Superintendent once her  contract is complete 
 and she is on  board. 
Chris Menard also suggests holding meetings over Zoom. 
7. Old Business 
  a. 2025 Budget Task Force Recommendations 
   Chris Menard pulled together debt projections and suggested members’  
  review the data. 
There needs to be discussions about turkey hill renovations versus a re-build 
and the future of the Brooks House. Tom Gray suggests selling the Brooks 
House as a house as opposed to commercial office space. Ana Lockwood 
states the historical preservation committee needs to act and make a 
decision.  
===PAGE 3===
8. Minutes (3/27, 4/3, 4/24) 
  Tanya Dall expressed that she is not accustomed to the way the minutes are written. 
 Chris Menard suggests speaking to the Town Manager to create consistency. 
There was a motion to approve the minutes from March 27, 2025, April 3, 2025, and 
April 24, 2025, by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call vote.  Jean Russell 
aye, Jay Simeone aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris 
Menard aye. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Tom Gray states he is unsure if the Municipal Building Design Committee will remain 
 because of the vote against recommendation. He hopes that the Select Board will 
 ask the Committee to continue their work or create a new committee. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  Tanya Dall is requesting a meeting with the Town manager and the new School 
 Superintendent. 
There will be a review of Committee assignments. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings  
  a. Town Election, May 17 7:00-5:00 
  b. Fincom Meeting, May 22 
12. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call 
 vote. Jean Russell aye, Jay Simeone aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Tom 
 Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 8:03 PM. 