===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
January 9, 2025 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell (Zoom), Committee 
Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Clerk Tom Gray 
Agenda 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:31 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Chris Menard states that the Superintendent announced to the town and the School 
 Committee that she is retiring at the end of this year.  
4. Public Comment 
   John Bowen, 162 Highland Street, reiterates a previous comment related to the 
 Cemetery Commission. There has been a misuse of $6,000 over an 18-month 
 period by the Cemetery Commission through the sale of lot funds. This morning 
 there was an open meeting about law violations. This was in regard to a vital records 
 program that is under the purview of the Town Clerk, Kathy Herrick. John Bowen 
 doesn’t believe the Cemetery Commission has any reason to access it and 
 anticipates proposing a warrant article to rein in spending. 
5. Scheduled Meetings 
  There are no meetings. 
6. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  The Town Manager and Finance Director have conﬂicts and will not be presenting 
  any reports. 
7. New Business 
  a. Review Budget Season Schedule 
   Chris Menard has emailed an outline with deadlines provided by the interim  
  town manager with key dates. 
The Finance Committee report is due to the Town Manager on Monday March 
 31 st.   
The public hearing for the Finance Committee is scheduled for March 13th. 
 There will be a notice in the ledger 10 days prior to the public hearing. 
===PAGE 2===
Chris Menard provided a proposed schedule for department hearings and 
other monied article reports. The suggested school department report is 
March 6th.  
There was a motion by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tanya Dall to relay to 
Carter Terenzi that the Committee is all in agreement with his suggested 
timeline and the individual topics by date. Jean Russell aye, Tanya Dall aye, 
Jay Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
b. FY26 Budget Discussions 
  Chris Menard provided a note from Carter Terenzini stating currently there 
 are no estimates for health insurance rates but did say that market trends are 
 running %12 to 15%. 
8. Old Business 
  a. Town Manager Search Committee Update 
   Chris Menard conﬁrms that next Tuesday there will be a marathon session at  
  the library where the 3 candidates will be interviewed. 2 candidates were  
  former Town Managers, and the other is currently a DPW Director. The Select  
  Board will provide their recommendations on Wednesday.  
b. School Funding Formula for Hold Harmless Communities 
   The town is no longer in the hold harmless category.  
c. Grant Writing Services 
   Chris Menard reiterates that there needs to be procedures and policies  
  created. Chris Menard will inquire with Caesar Nuzzolo and the Select Board  
  and ask them to bring this up at their next meeting. 
d. Budget Task Force Recommendations 
   There were no discussions. 
9. Minutes 
  Jay Simeone had 1 minor correction on the minutes from December 19th.  
There was a motion to approve the minutes from December 19th by Jay Simeone, 
seconded by Tanya Dall. Jean Russell aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Chris 
Menard aye.  
Chris Menard conﬁrmed that the formatting on the web is diƯerent than in the 
actual app where the documents are in proper order. Chris Menard will change the 
documents to PDF before sending them to the Clerk’s OƯice. 
10. Committee Reports 
  Jean Russell states that the School Committee had a meeting last night. 
===PAGE 3===
 Arrangements have been made to have the security company replace the ﬁre alarms 
 at Turkey Hill. The schools have ordered a new truck and plow that will be available 
 next summer. A former Lunenburg student awarded a 15,000 dollars scholarship to 
 the athletics department. 
There were no committee reports from Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Tanya Dall. 
11. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There are no additional topics to add to future agendas. 
12. Important Dates 
 There are no additional important dates. 
13. Upcoming Meetings 
  a. 1/23/2025 – tentatively scheduled  
  b. 2/13/2025 Budget Season begins 
14. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. Jay Simeone reiterates that there are 2 
 vacancies on the Board. 
15. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tanya Dall. Roll call 
 vote. Jean Russell aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye.  
The meeting closed at 8:00 PM. 