===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
July 23, 2026 
 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member Peter 
Beardmore, Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Jay Simeone, 
Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp 
1. Call to Order  
  The meeting opened at 7:03 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Chris Menard conﬁrmed that an additional Special Town Meeting is expected to be 
 held this year; however, the date has not yet been determined. 
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
                The Town Manager and Finance Director are on vacation; therefore, no report was 
 provided. 
6. Current Business 
  a. Reorganization of Finance Committee 
   There was a motion to nominate Chris Menard for Chair by Jay Simeone,  
  seconded by Tanya Dall. All in favor. 
   There was a motion to nominate Peter Beardmore as Vice Chair by Jay   
  Simeone, seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. 
   There was a motion to nominate Tom Gray for Clerk by Ana Lockwood,  
  seconded by Peter Beardmore. All in favor.  
b. Presentation by Green Communities on Mass Save Programs and Incentives 
   The Chair of the Green Communities Committee, David Blatt, provided the  
  presentation. 
David Blatt discussed diƯerent programs and incentives oƯered by Mass 
Save and National Grid. The representative at Mass Save is Matt O’Keefe and 
the representative from National Grid is Sean Krauss. 
===PAGE 2===
Mass Save oƯers free audits regarding energy eƯiciency. For FY 26, 90% of 
towns in the Commonwealth are now Green Communities. 
There was discussion about weatherization incentives, heat pump 
 incentives, building management systems, and other electric measures. 
David Blatt discussed the accelerated repair program oƯered to schools that 
 cover roof and window repair. Applications need to be submitted in January 
 2027; a decision will be made in mid-2027 and construction will start in 
 2028. The applications are only accepted every 2 years. 
c. Additional State Aid, other revenues and savings Discussion 
   Renee Emkey forwarded a presentation to the Committee for review. 
Chris Menard conﬁrmed a petition was submitted by Mandy Gilman who is 
 also working with the Superintendent.  There will be an upcoming 
 presentation by Mandy Gilman, possibly with the School Committee and 
 Superintendent.  
Chris Menard provided the following documents to the Finance Committee  
 members: General Law, Bylaws, Home Rule Charter, as well as guidance 
 from the Mass Dept. of Revenue. 
 The Finance Committee public hearing has been scheduled to take place on  
  August 27, 2026.  
 Below are some highlights anticipated to be discussed at the public hearing. 
   - $135,915 increase in Chapter 70 funds 
    - $116,413 increase in charter school tuition reimbursement  
     - $160,187 was received in receipts from the Smart Growth school 
    reimbursement. 
    - There was a total increase of $402,730 in school related state aid. 
Below are the 5 requests proposed by the Superintendent totaling $350,000. 
     - Reading Specialist at the Primary School 
   - Reading Specialist at the Turkey Hill Elementary 
   - Increasing the Vice Principal position to full time 
   - Increasing the Music Teacher at the High School to full time 
   - Online tutoring program for the Primary School  
d. Committee and Liaison Assignments 
   The assignments are as follows: 
    Council on Aging: Ana Lockwood 
===PAGE 3===
    Green Communities Committee: Tom Gray 
    Library Board of Trustees: Jay Simeone 
    Master Plan Steering Committee: Mike Rupp 
    Municipal Design Committee: Tom Gray 
    Parks Commission: Tanya Dall 
    Personnel Committee: Tanya Dall 
    School Committee: Peter Beardmore 
    Select Board: Tom Gray 
    Sewer Commission: Jay Simeone 
The Town Manager Screening Committee has concluded its work thus will 
not need liaison. 
The assignments for the Capital Planning Committee, Stormwater Task 
Force, Planning Board were deferred. 
Peter Beardmore volunteered to be the contact person for department 
liaison with the Police Department, Facilities Department and the 
Department of Public Works. 
e. Upcoming priorities and Calendars 
   Chris Menard anticipates that department heads will present their requests  
  prior to the budget season, most likely during wintertime. 
Chris Menard will reach out to the DLS representative to set up a 
presentation regarding best practice and knowledge for the Finance 
Committee and the Select Board. 
7. Old Business 
                No old business was discussed.  
8. Minutes (Fincom - 5/28, 6/11, Triboards – 1/12, 1/27, 3/10, possibly others) 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes of May 28, 2026, and June 11, 2026, by 
 Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. 
 There was a motion to approve the Triboard minutes of January 12, 2026, January 27, 
 2026, and March 10, 2026, by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray.  
  Both sets of minutes were approved by a vote of 5-0-2. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Tom Gray states the Municipal Building Design Committee will be meeting with the 
 Select Board on July 28, 2026, to discuss the future of the Committee. 
===PAGE 4===
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There were no actions or topics to add to future agendas. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Finance Committee – August 13 
  b. Finance Committee Public Hearing – August 27 
   c. Special Town Meeting – September 3 
12. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Jay Simeone. All in 
 favor. 
The meeting closed at 9:34 PM. 