===PAGE 1===
Tunenbury Post No. 283
AMERICAN LEGION
25 MEMORIAL DRIVE
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
November 7, 2013
Lunenburg Town Treasurer
17 Main Street
PO Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462
The American Legion Post 283 wishes to establish a trust fund with the town of
Lunenburg with the following conditions.
Lunenburg Trust Fund Commission to be the dispersing agency for this Trust Fund.
All funds must be used for the benefit of current or past members of American Legion
Post 283 or Lunenburg, resident Veterans.
Veterans must be eligible for membership in the American Legion.
They must be residents of the Town of Lunenburg, MA. for a minimum of 3 years.
Other dispersments may be made for qualified programs within the Town of Lunenburg
that would benefit or enhance Veteran services or programs, such as special Veterans
celebratory functions.
Funds in the amount of up to $350.00 per, any one year may be dispersed if requested.
Should the fund reach an amount in excess of $25,000.00 any amount in excess can be
used for veterans benefits. Thereafter the maximum disbursement for any one year can be
75% of that year's interest.
The intent for this is to insure that funds continue to grow so as to allow a substantial
amount can be issued to veterans.
===PAGE 2===
NOTES:
• American Legion eligibility can be determined by the Town of Lunenburg
Veteran Service Officer.
Town of Lunenburg Residence can be determined by the Town Clerk.
Signature's of Post 283 members as follows:
Arnie Rill
Cruis Bill
Commander/ Treasurer'
Robert Willhauck
Si. Vice Commander
Fred Cuday
tud celle
Ji Vice Commander
Ernie Sund
Chaplain / Past Adjutant
===PAGE 3===
American Legion Post 283 Trust Fund - Donor Intent Summary
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DOCUMENT:
This document is a 2013 communication from American Legion Post 283 in Lunenburg,
Massachusetts, establishing a charitable trust fund with the Town of Lunenburg. The main
theme is donor intent, specifying how funds are to be administered, who qualifies for
assistance, and how the trust should be stewarded.
DONOR INTENT LANGUAGE (Extracted for Governance Purposes - Lunenburg, MA):
• Funds must be used for the benefit of current or past members of American Legion Post
283 or Lunenburg resident veterans.
• Veterans must be eligible for American Legion membership and residents of Lunenburg
for at least 3 years.
• Disbursements may support qualified town programs that enhance veteran services or
celebratory veteran functions.
• Up to $350.00 per year may be disbursed upon request.
• If the fund exceeds $25,000.00, excess amounts may be used for veterans' benefits.
• After exceeding $25,000.00, disbursements may not exceed 75% of annual interest.
• The intent is to ensure continued growth of the fund to provide substantial long-term
support to veterans.