===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS/PUBLIC CHARITIES DIVISION 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 ext. 2101
www.mass.gov/ago/charities 
December 2010 
RE: I NSTRUCTIONS FOR INSTITUTIONAL FUND FORM PC (FORM PC-IF) 
(Modification of Institutional Funds of less than $75,000 and more than 20 years old) 
Dear Public Charity: 
Massachusetts law has always permitted institutions, including charitable trusts, to petition the 
courts to modify donor-imposed restrictions on charitable funds if certain criteria are met. The 
Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division of the Office of the Attorney General 
(“Division”) reviews these requests 
to determine if the proposed modifications are appropriate 
under applicable laws. If the Attorney General approves of the proposed modifications, then the 
relief requested is assented to and, if the institution has not already filed the petition, it is 
submitted to the court for judicial approval. This procedure applied regardless of the size or age 
of the institutional fund. 
Pursuant to the newly adopted Uniform Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act 
(UPMIFA), M.G.L. ch. 180A § 5(d), the Supreme Judicial Court issued S.J.C. Rule 1:23. This 
Rule, which is effective as of January 1, 2011, permits an institution seeking to modify certain 
restrictions of an institutional fund (see definitions section) that has been in existence for twenty 
(20) years or 
longer and has a total value of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000) or less as of
the end of its last fiscal year to do so without petitioning the court for relief if the institution
obtains the consent of the Attorney General.  In such an event, the institution may apply to the
Attorney General for consent to either: (i) modify a restriction contained in a gift instrument on
the management, investment, or duration of the institutional fund (administrative equitable
deviation), or (ii) modify the purpose of the institutional fund or the restriction on the use of the
fund in a manner consistent with the charitable purposes expressed in the gift instrument if a
particular charitable purpose or a restriction contained in a gift instrument on the use of an
institutional fund has become unlawful, impracticable, impossible to achieve or wasteful
(administrative cy pres).
In order to process an application for administrative equitable deviation or administrative cy 
pres, an institution must submit a completed Form PC-IF. In addition to the Form PC-IF, an 
institution must submit an officer’s certificate of the authorization of the application by the 
institution’s board of trustees or directors, a copy of the gift instrument, a financial statement of 
the institutional fund for the most recent fiscal year, and, if the funds will be transferred to 
another institution, an affidavit from the recipient institution consenting to the transfer and to the 
use of the funds subject to any restrictions. Additional documents may also need to be submitted. 

===PAGE 2===
2 of 6 
 
Once the completed application has been submitted, it will be reviewed by the Division. If the 
Division determines that the proposed modifications are appropriate and consistent with 
applicable laws governing charitable funds, the institution will be notified in writing that the 
Attorney General consents to the relief requested. If there are any questions or concerns 
regarding the application, the institution’s representative will be contacted.  
 
If the Division determines that the proposed modifications are not appropriate, the Division will 
contact the institution and attempt to resolve any problems or concerns. If the Division is unable 
to consent to the proposed relief despite these efforts, the Division will notify the institution in 
writing that the Attorney General does not consent to the proposed modifications. 
 
Any institution aggrieved by the decision of the Attorney General may proceed, de novo, under 
M.G.L. ch. 180A, §§ 5(b) or 5(c). 
 
Please note that the Form PC-IF, including all attachments and submissions, become public 
records when filed with the Division and are open to public inspection. 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division 
 (617) 727-2200, ext. 2101 
 
ADDITIONAL FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS CAN BE FOUND ON OUR WEBSITE AT: 
WWW.MASS.GOV/AGO/CHARITIES 
“MODIFICATION OF INSTITUTIONAL FUNDS” 
 
 
WHAT MUST BE FILED? 
 
The Form PC-IF requires copies of the following documents: an Officer’s Certificate of Board 
Authorization of the administrative equitable deviation/cy pres and any transfer of assets, the 
gift instrument, a financial statement for the most recent fiscal year of the institutional fund, 
and, if the funds will be transferred to another institution, an affidavit from the recipient 
institution consenting to the transfer and to the use of the funds subject to the restrictions 
imposed upon their use.  The Division reserves the right to require an institution to provide, on a 
case-by-case basis and as determined by the Division, additional documents or information 
prior to acting on an application for administrative equitable deviation or administrative cy pres. 
 
WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO FILE A FORM PC-IF? 
 
A public charity which is also an “Institution” as defined by M.G.L. ch. 180A §1(1) and holds an 
institutional fund as defined by M.G.L. ch. 180A §1(2) that is subject to the laws of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts may submit a Form PC-IF in order to request modification of 
an institutional fund that has been in existence for at least twenty (20) years and, as of the end of 
the institution’s last fiscal year, has a fair market value of seventy-five thousand dollars 
($75,000) or less. 
===PAGE 3===
3 of 6 
 
WHERE TO FILE? 
 
The Form PC-IF, with all attachments and other documents, should be submitted by mail to: 
 
Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division 
Office of the Attorney General 
Administrative Deviation/Cy pres Processing 
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, MA 02108 
 
 
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS 
 
Please type or print all responses very clearly. 
 
Please answer all questions and provide attachments and/or explanations that are applicable to 
your institution. 
 
For the Attorney General’s Account #, indicate the number assigned to the institution by 
the Division.  If it does not have or know its Attorney General Number, please call the 
Division. Please note that not all public charities are required to register and file with the 
Attorney General. For institutions not required to register with the Attorney General, 
please indicate “not applicable” on the line for the Attorney General’s Account #.  
Institutions that are not in compliance with applicable registration and filing 
requirements will not have their applications reviewed until compliance is achieved. 
 
 
I.  INSTITUTIONAL FUND DATA 
 
Provide contact information for the institution that will remain in effect for at least 16 
weeks after submission to the Division. If an individual other than the institution is 
preparing the application, please provide that individual’s contact information. 
 
Please be sure to clearly label all responses that require additional information with the 
corresponding Question number. 
 
 
Question 1 
 
Indicate the date the institutional fund was established and whether the institutional fund has 
been in existence for twenty years or longer.  
 
Please note that the age of the institutional fund is calculated based on the date its account was 
created and funded, and not as of the date of any gift or gifts subsequently made to the fund.  
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 of 6 
 
Question 2 
 
Indicate the total value of the institutional fund as determined as of the end of the institution’s 
last fiscal year. 
 
 
Question 3 
 
Indicate whether the institution is seeking application for administrative equitable deviation or 
administrative cy pres.  
 
 
Question 4 
 
Indicate the current restrictions imposed upon the institutional fund, a brief description as to why 
the institution believes these restrictions have become impracticable, impossible, or wasteful, a 
description of the proposed modifications to these restrictions, and the reasons why the 
institution believes the proposed changes conform to the intent of the donor and further the 
charitable purpose of the institutional fund. 
 
Please see the definition section for further guidance. If an applicant is uncertain which type of 
relief to request or any other aspect of the application, please contact the Division at (617) 727-
2200, ext. 2101. 
 
 
II.  SIGNATURE REQUIRED 
 
Original signatures are required on this form.  The contact information for the person signing on 
behalf of the institution should be provided here.  If this form is completed by anyone other than 
the individual signing on the institution’s behalf, please identify that individual and include their 
contact information.  The date provided should be the date the PC-IF is signed. 
 
 
III.  DOCUMENT SUBMISSION DISCLOSURE 
 
Indicate all other documents provided at the time the Form PC-IF is sent to the Division. 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 of 6 
 
IV.  DEFINITIONS 
 
Administrative Cy Pres 
The doctrine of cy pres is rooted in case law and statutory law. Under Massachusetts law, when 
the purpose of a charitable gift has become impossible or impracticable to fulfill, the court may, 
upon a petition presented to the court pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 214 § 10B, modify the purpose of 
the gift to a similar charitable purpose. Courts seek to apply cy pres in a manner that is consistent 
with the presumed intent of the donor.  
 
Administrative cy pres is modeled on the doctrine of cy pres, and the same analysis that would 
be performed by the court pursuant to a petition for cy pres will apply to the Division’s review of 
an application for administrative cy pres. The institution must provide evidence substantiating 
that the charitable purpose contained in the gift instrument has become: 
 
 Unlawful; or 
 Impracticable; or 
 Impossible to achieve; or 
 Wasteful; 
 And that the proposed modification of the purpose of the fund or the restriction on the use 
of the fund will be made in a manner consistent with the charitable purposes expressed in 
the gift instrument. 
 
Please note that the doctrine of cy pres is appropriate when the dominant, or primary, charitable 
purpose of the gift has become impossible or impracticable to fulfill. For modification of 
subordinate terms of a charitable gift, the doctrine of equitable deviation shall apply. 
 
Administrative Equitable Deviation 
The doctrine of equitable deviation is rooted in case law and statutory law. Under Massachusetts 
law, a fiduciary may, pursuant to M.G.L. ch. 214 § 10B, petition the court to permit reasonable 
deviation from any of the subordinate terms of a restricted charitable gift if doing so will further 
the dominant charitable purpose as intended by the donor. Reasonable deviation of a subordinate 
term may also be appropriate if adherence to a specific subordinate restriction has become 
impractical or wasteful, or impairs the management or investment of a restricted gift. 
 
Administrative equitable deviation is modeled on the doctrine of equitable deviation, and the 
same analysis that would be performed by the court pursuant to a petition for equitable deviation 
will apply to the Division’s review of an application for administrative equitable deviation. The 
institution must provide evidence substantiating: 
 
 That a restriction contained in a gift instrument on the management, investment or 
duration of an institutional fund has become impractical or wasteful; or 
 That a restriction contained in a gift instrument on the management, investment or 
duration of an institutional fund impairs the management or investment of the fund; or 
 That a modification of  a subordinate restriction will further the purposes of the fund; and 
 To the extent practicable, modification shall be made in accordance with the donor’s 
probable intention. 
===PAGE 6===
6 of 6 
 
Gift Instrument 
For purposes of M.G.L. ch. 180A, § 5(d), a gift instrument is defined as “a record, including an 
institutional solicitation, under which property is granted to, transferred to or held by an 
institution as an institutional fund.” 
 
Institution 
For purposes of M.G.L. ch. 180A, § 5(d), an institution is defined as “(i) a person, other than an 
individual, organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes; (ii) a government or 
governmental subdivision, agency or instrumentality to the extent that it holds funds exclusively 
for a charitable purpose; or (iii) a trust that had both charitable and noncharitable interests, after 
all noncharitable interests have terminated.” See M.G.L. ch. 180A, § 1.  
 
Not all charitable organizations are institutions for purposes of M.G.L. ch. 180A. For example, a 
charitable trust managed by a charity is an institution, but a charitable trust managed by 
corporate or individual trustees is not an institution.  
 
Institutional Fund  
For purposes of M.G.L. ch. 180A, § 5(d), an “institutional fund” is defined as “a fund held by an 
institution exclusively for charitable purposes or a fund held by trustee for a charitable 
community trust, but not including: (i) program-related assets; (ii) a fund held for an institution 
by a trustee that is not an institution, other than a fund which is held for a charitable community 
trust; or (iii) a fund in which a beneficiary that is not an institution has an interest, other than an 
interest that could arise upon violation or failure of the purpose of the fund.” A “program-related 
asset” is defined as “an asset held by an institution primarily to accomplish a charitable purpose 
of the institution and not primarily for investment.” 