===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Teddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Vacant 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
Tel: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jaime – Conservation Agent 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, 15 July 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call:  
Present: J. Pewtherer, A. Burnap, M. Larouche, and T. Doucette. 
Absent: R. Bursch, M. Wilson 
Call to Order at 7:04 pm by J. Pewtherer 
2. APPOINTMENTS: None 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment:  
None 
b. Pollinator Habitat Update 
J. Pewtherer uploaded and shared pictures.  M. Larouche stated that they have put on the first layer of mineral 
paper on the shed roof and it was stripped, just awaiting shingles. He hopes TO continue later next week.  M. 
Larouche thanked the commission for his shirt.  Milkweed is blooming, there are milkweed leaf beetles, wild 
bergamot, these are things that were seen in the garden this week.   
 
Minutes of:  
07/1/2026  
Motion: T. Doucette, for approval 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: T. Doucette – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
     
 
4. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws: 
  
a. 15 White Street: NOI-26-23  
Notice of Intent by Carlos Silvera for the repair / upgrade of failed septic system 
Luke Rotti was present, as the soil evaluator and septic installer.  The engineer was not available.  Mr. Rotti was 
present for the PERC test. Mr. Rotti is familiar with the plan, and a more detailed plan was uploaded recently.  
When members of the commission did the site walk, it was difficult to make where on the property the septic was 
going, so the uploaded plan is much better. 
 
Mr. Rotti stated that the existing septic system is in the rear of the house; the proposed system will be on the side 
of the house at a higher elevation and as far away from the wetlands as possible, which are at the rear of the 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
house.  H. Jamie stated that she met the engineer at the site in late fall.  They worked together to find the best and 
most appropriate side for the new system.  There is no DEP number as of yet on this project 
Motion: M. Larouche, for continuance until 8/5/26      
Second T. Doucette 
 Vote: T. Doucette - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
     
 
5. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
a. 1625 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-10 (Continued from 5/6/26/26) 
H. Jamie is asking for a continuance on behalf of the applicant to continue to resolve issues. 
Motion: T. Doucette, continue to August 19th. 
Second M. Laroche 
Vote: T. Doucette - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
     
 
b. 860 New West Townsend Road NOI-26-1 Continued from 7/1/26 
Notice of Intend by Daniel & Rachel Brackett for a common driveway to provide access to four residential lots 
Ryan Proctor present for the owner who stated there have been no outstanding questions or comments from the 
commission at this point.  R. Proctor stated that with regard to the Planning Board, they have met the requirement 
of review engineers, Graves Engineering.  Currently, the only outstanding issue as submitting a draft HOA 
document to be reviewed by town counsel.  R. Proctor stated that the letter from Graves was uploaded to the 
portal as well as the most recent plan, which has no changes.  If there are no further questions from this 
commission, a request was made to close this hearing. 
T. Doucette asked what the HOA is in regard to. R. Proctor stated that the HOA covers basically everything and 
has been submitted to town counsel.  These are townhouses.  The Planning Board is primarily concerned with the 
common driveway themselves including snow plowing and maintenance.  T. Doucette asked if the draft HOA was 
uploaded.  R. Proctor was unsure of it was uploaded to the portal as it is a draft.  If it has not been, he will upload 
the HOA draft document.   M. Larouche stated that R. Proctor has not gotten a response from the Planning Board 
on the latest submission but he could with regard to the both the site plan and HOA.  R Proctor stated that the 
presented the revised plans and there were no questions.  He addressed comments from the fire department.  
Outstanding question related to the HOA and thickness of the pavement.  There are no other outstanding design 
question of any nature.  H. Jamie stated that she had concerns about a proposed HOA.  If the Selectboard denies 
it, it serves no purpose.  R. Proctor stated that the operation agreements will point toward the operation, the HOA 
agreement will point toward the operation and maintenance manual, which is included in the stormwater report, 
which you did receive a copy of.  All are those are outlined and I will make sure you have all the latest drainage 
reports.  H. Jamie stated that if all of that is in place, it is in everyone’s interest to move forward. 
Motion: T. Doucette, to Approve Notice of Intent for Common Driveway 
Second M. Laroche 
Vote: T. Doucette - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
     
 
c. 934 Massachusetts Avenue:  NOI-26-17 (Continued from 07/01/26 
Notice of Intent for Unitil for the construction of a new substation and replacement of utility poles 
H. Jamie stated that applicant has requested a continuance until the next meeting 
Motion: T. Doucette, Continued until August 5th 
Second M. Laroche 
Vote: T. Doucette - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
     
 
d. 507 West Townsend Road NOI 26-19 (Continued from 6/3/26) 
Notice of Intent by Jahnke Construction LLC for the construction of single family home with wetland crossing 
H. Jamie stated that no one was present and suggest a continuance until the next meeting 
 
Motion: T. Doucette, Continued until August 5th 
Second M. Laroche 
Vote: T. Doucette - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
     
 
e. 701 Reservoir Road NOI-26-21 (Continued from 7/1/26) 
Notice of Intent by the Reservoir Recreational Trust for the construction of a new concrete boat ramp on Lake 
Shirley at Shady Point 
R. Proctor (Dillis & Roy) was present for the applicant who stated that a DEP number was received with 
comments relating to quantifying impacts.  R. Proctor stated that in addition to the boat ramp, they were also 
proposing some shoreline stabilization improvements by way of a wall.  They are soliciting quotes for a wildlife 
habitat evaluation.  This is required when you alter greater than 50 linear feet of a shoreline.  Also, there was a 
question as to the impervious area for the project as it related to stormwater.  R. Proctor stated that the comments 
were just received and he will be working through them and submit revised materials.  R. Proctor stated that he is 
asking for a continuance.  Rich Pearson, 75 Ruth Street was present through zoom who stated that he is totally in 
favor of this project.  The owner is generous to the lake community in many ways and to the larger Lunenburg 
community as well.  H. James stated that she has received two letter of support.  One from Andrew Storm and one 
from Joanna Bilotta, who is the president of the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation.  Also a letter from Carl 
Luck with concerns.  Andrew Storm, 715 Flat Hill Road, was present and stated that he supports the project as 
stated in his letter (will be upload to the portal).  The boat ramp is an invaluable resource to the promote access to 
the lake.  Carl Luck was present at the meeting.  C. Luck stated that he submitted his concerns by letter.  They do 
have a commonality with DEP concerns but I do support his project.  The ramp does need to be improved and it is 
his hope that it is done in the best way possible.  Mr. Luck would like to see pervious pavers used for the ramp.  
At the last meeting it appears to have a significant increase in the impervious area within 50 feet of the lake.  R. 
Proctor stated that they will be addressing the impervious question and will be coming back with an answer to that 
and will be formalizing same in a letter.  D. DeFazion of 31 Fire Road was present at the meeting and stated that 
she has seen several commercial or State boat ramps and they are all concrete and has concerns about pavers 
being able to handle the traffic.  This is a revamp of the existing ramp and due to wear and tear needs upgrading.  
D. Defazon is also in favor of this project. Chair Pewtherer stated that she wanted to echo the sentiment that she is 
hearing that the applicant has worked really hard to protect the trees and shoreline in the past and is continuing to 
do so now.  Carl Luck stated that in his letter he has concerns about power loading boats, which rips up the bottom 
of the lake and would like to see some restriction on power loading boats.  Mr. Luck is also concerned about the 
amount of solid wall around the lake.  Most of the walls have been stone walls so that the habitat is not disturbed.  
C. Luck stated that the in the past the Commission has pushed people toward stone walls.  J. Pewtherer stated for 
clarification that power loading is using the boat’s motor to get the boat on the trailer rather than using a winch.  
Chris Coffin, owner, stated that they do not allow power loading and we do have signage that we don’t allow it 
but we can’t catch everyone.  With regard to walls, there are many walls being put in with blocks, two recent ones 
in the channel.  C. Luck asked for information on those walls.  H. Jamie stated that that is not relevant to this 
hearing and C. Luck can request information outside this hearing.  R. Proctor is asking to continue the hearing 
until August 5th. 
Motion: T. Doucette, to continue to 8/5 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: J. Pewtherer - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
     
 
f. 91 Round Road PKA 10 Parmenter Road NOI-26-22 (Continued from 7/1/26) 
Notice of Intent by Benjamin Builders minor site work for driveway entrance and Rain Garden 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) was present in place of Greg Roy.  His intent was to submit a request for 
continuation, which was not done.  Since R. Proctor is present he asked for a continuation until August 5th. 
Motion: T. Doucette, to continue to 8/5 
Second A. Burnap 
Vote: J. Pewtherer - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 
g. 100 Laurel Lane:  RDA-26-7 (Continued from 7/1/26) 
Request for Determination of Applicability by Brian Pollard for the decommissioning of a septic system and 
installation of grinder pump 
Brian Pollard was present at the meeting who stated that they are going to decommission the existing septic 
system and will be installing a grinder pump in place of the septic tank and pump to connect to the town sewer 
system.  An ADU will also be tied in.  The existing septic system with be abandoned with the tank being pumped 
and filled.  There will be erosion control.  H. Jamie stated that she has worked with the applicant on this project 
and believes this is the best solution as they are tying into town sewage.  Applicant needs to get conservation 
approval so they can move forward with the DPW portion of this project.  H. Jamie would recommend a negative 
determination on this application. 
 
Motion: T. Doucette, for a negative determination 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: J. Pewtherer - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
     
 
 
6. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS:  
a. Adminstrator’s Determination - None 
b. Amended Order of Conditions: None 
c. Extension Request Permits:  None 
d. Certificates of Compliance: 
i.  1168 Mass Avenue - Rear 
H. Jamie gave her report.  No unauthorized structures or alterations were noted. 
Motion: M. Larouche, to approve Certificate of Compliance 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: J. Pewtherer - AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
     
e. Notice of Project Change:  None 
7. ENFORCEMENT 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings: 
i. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
Enforcement Order sent on 7/8/26, rep responded with receipt on 7/10/26. 
b. Emergency Certifications: None 
 
8. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Updates: None 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
Commission Open Discussion 
b. By-Law Discussion 
H. Jamie is proposing amending the Wetlands Protection Bylaw (Article XXI) – specifically the section governing 
filing fees to more clearly state: 
- The Conservation Commission shall establish and amend its fee schedule by vote of the Commission; and 
- The adopted fee schedule shall be maintained by the Commission and made available to the public.   
Additionally, to remove actual dollar amounts included in the bylaw and instead reference the fee schedule 
adopted by the Commission.  J. Pewtherer stated that now it is very hard for the Commission to change fees 
because it requires a Town Meeting vote.  This would enable the Commission to change fees with a vote of the 
Commission.  M. Larouche stated his support for the change in bylaw and fees schedule.  M. Pewtherer stated she 
would like to continue this discussion until there is a full board. 
 
Kim Duffy of 1479 Mass Avenue was present at the meeting.  She shared that she was recently at the Cowdry and 
the red trail along the river is completely overgrown.  She is suggesting that if a group is looking for a project, the 
area needs to be cleared out.  There is also a need for a foot bridge to cross the water.  J. Pewtherer asked when 
she was there and K. Duffy answered July 4th.  J. Pewtherer asked that K. Duffy send an email to H Jamie and 
copy the board.  There are other groups willing to do projects.   
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget:  
Eagle Scout Project 
J. Pewtherer stated that although she would prefer not to make the Eagle Scouts wait, she feels it is important to 
have a full board to vote on the project.  T. Doucette stated that he is in favor of this project and providing funds 
to support it.  J. Pewtherer stated that she does have some reservations with this project.  In the past, Eagle 
Scouts came with a fully complete project where their funding sources are coming from, what materials they 
are using.  Discussion continued for a full board  
b. Encroachment Issues: None to discuss. 
c. Hollis Rd Residence: No Update 
d. Committee Reports – No Update 
i. Master Plan Steering Committee: No update 
ii. Open Space: No update 
iii. Storm Water: No update 
10. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT 
11. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. Wednesday 8/5 at 7:00PM by Zoom 
12. ADJOURN 
Motion: M. Larouche, to adjourn at 9:33PM  
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: J. Pewtherer – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
     
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Andrea Schnepf – 
 