===PAGE 73===
73 
 
Manpower (Salaries, Purchase of Services, Consultant (videographer)) accounted for 52.69% of the 
FY16 expenses. 
 
Financials 
PAC received all of its income from Comcast in quarterly payments (August, November, February 
and May). The overall payments received for FY16 were $100,431.72.  These payments were 
used for the operating budget and for some capital costs.  
 
The starting balance for PAC in FY16 was $265,970.11 and was used within the following line 
items: 
                                    FY16 LINE ITEM EXPENSES 
Line Item Amount 
Salaries $30,162.59 
Purchase of 
Services $6,783.74 
Consultant $13,720.00 
Lease $6,000.00 
Office Supplies $247.45 
Advertising $1,515.00 
Equip/Maintenance $927.51 
Insurance $5,880.84 
New Equip $30,479.00 
Vendor Expenses $450.00 
TOTAL $96,166.13 
 
===PAGE 74===
74 
 
FY16 EXPENSES BY PERCENTAGES 
 
 
 
The total Revenue collected from Comcast and other sources in FY16 was $100,431.72  Total 
Expenses came to $96,166.13 
 
FY16 REVENUE vs EXPENSES 
Starting Balance $265,970.11 
Revenue $100,431.72 
Subtotal $366,401.83 
Expenses $96,166.13 
Ending Balance $270,235.70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31.37%
7.05%
14.27%6.24%
0.26%1.58%
0.96%
0.47%
6.12%
31.69%
Salaries     31.37%
Purch. of Svcs. 7.05%
Consultant  14.27%
Lease  6.24%
Office Supplies 0.26%
Advertising  1.58%
Equip/Maint   0.96%
Vendor Svcs.  0.47%
Insurance   6.12%
New Equip  31.69%
===PAGE 75===
75 
 
SENIOR PROPERTY TAX WORK-OFF PROGRAM 
Est. 1998 
CALENDAR YEAR JANUARY 1, 2016 – NOVEMBER 1, 2016  
 
The Property Tax Work-Off Committee is a 5 member committee appointed by the Board of Selectmen. 
 
The Lunenburg Property Tax Work-Off Program offers income eligible senior citizens age 60+ an oppor-
tunity to receive up to $1,000 off of their property tax bill in the calendar year rather than the fiscal year.  
Participants worked in various town departments to earn the tax abatement doing general office duties, cus-
todial, library shelving, and kitchen assistance. 
For each hour worked a person received $10 and worked up to 100 hours between January 1, 2016 and No-
vember 1, 2016 to receive the abatement.  Any hours worked beyond that were considered volunteer hours. 
There were eleven Lunenburg residents who participated between January 1, 2016 and November 1, 2016.  
These individuals, as a whole, accumulated 837.25 hours towards their abatements. 
Eligibility Requirements: 
 Applicants must be 60 years of age or older 
 Own and occupy a home in Lunenburg as their primary residence for at least one year 
 Receive a property tax bill in their name or their spouse’s name who is also 60 years of age or older 
 Meet the income guidelines of : One person household - $40,000 / Two person household - $60,000 
 All new applicants are required to have a CORI background check and must re- apply and be accepted 
annually for participation in the program. 
 
Earnings are exempt from state taxes only.  Earnings are subject to Federal and FICA tax withholdings and 
are also subject to OBRA (Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, otherwise known as MA Deferred 
Compensation), if participants are not receiving a pension from either Worcester Regional Retirement or 
Massachusetts State Teachers Retirement. 
Departments who participated between January 1 - November 1, 2016: 
Board of Selectmen 
Facilities and Grounds 
Board of Health 
Building Department 
Council on Aging 
DPW/Sewer Departments 
Fire Department 
Public Library 
School Department 
===PAGE 76===
76 
SEWER COMMISSION 
 
The five member Sewer Commission was originally established at the Special Town Meeting on May 6, 2006.  
At the first Sewer Commission meeting after the May 2015 Town election (5/26/15) when the Commission 
elects the officers for  the new fiscal year, Carl Luck was elected to remain as Chairman, Mike Nault to serve 
as Vice-Chair and Troy Daniels to serve as Clerk. Sue Bunish was elected to the Commission by ballot in the 
May 2015 election, however neither Dave MacDonald nor Butch Bilotta sought re-election, leaving one vacan-
cy on the 5-member Commission.  On July 7, 2015 John Reynolds was appointed to the Commission to serve a 
one-year term by a joint meeting of the Board of Selectmen and the Sewer Commission. The Sewer Commis-
sion bears the responsibility of overseeing the Town’s sewer system, planning for the future, and developing 
and implementing rules, regulations and policies.  The Department of Public Works manages and maintains the 
operational side of the system.  Under the Town’s Charter, responsibility for the day-to day operation, care and 
maintenance of the sanitary sewers are under the supervision of the Town Manager.   The Town of Lunenburg 
does not operate a sewer treatment plant. Approximately 83% of Lunenburg sewer is discharged to the City of 
Leominster and the other 17% is discharged to the City of Fitchburg.    
  
There are currently 846 properties connected to the Lunenburg system and another 393 that have access to 
Town Sewer but are not yet connected. During FY16, 37 new accounts connected to Town Sewer.  The Com-
mission billed out $734,145 in quarterly sewer bills, and had $63,086.97 of prior year delinquencies added to 
the owners’ property tax bills for non-payment.   Three properties with access to the original sewer installation 
were assessed privilege fees that had not originally been assessed betterments.  Privilege fees help to pay down 
the debt owed by the Town on the original sewer project.  
 
At the May 2015 Town meeting the Commission had gone before the townspeople to request an additional ap-
propriation of $300,000 for the addition of Pleasant View Ave into the SRF project. It was approved and in 
June 2015, the engineers at Wright Pierce began the engineering and design to install sewers in the Pleasant 
View Ave. in concert with the SRF project, providing great cost saving by having the same construction firm, 
CJP & Sons Construction, complete the installation while their equipment was still in town.  On July 15, 2015 
construction to install sewers for the SRF Sewer Project began in the Pratt Street and Lakeview Avenue areas. 
Work on the sewer installation continued throughout FY16. In the fall of 2015, Wright Pierce again assisted the 
Town by helping the Town obtain a DEP grant of $30,000 for the inspection and evaluation of over 300 man-
holes to determine causes of Inflow/Infiltration (I/I). Wright Pierce began the project in February 2016 and 
completed the inspections and analysis in the spring 2016.  The Commission will use their evaluation and rec-
ommendations to alleviate Inflow/Infiltration going into FY17.   
 
In February 2016, the Commission approved revisions of the Sewer Extension Regulation, thanks in large part 
to the hard work of Troy Daniels.  The Commission was grateful to Troy in his work to help protect the Town 
by putting forward a complete and comprehensive Regulation.  The Commission continued to work hard on the 
Grease Trap Regulation to make it a workable document that can be easily followed by all Food Service Estab-
lishments (FSE) that have internal or external grease interceptors. The Commission held two public hearings to 
get input for those restaurants and well as the townspeople.  As of May 2016, the regulation was approved, and 
a new fee structure and requirements for annual permits, compliance and reporting was instituted.   Lunenburg 
has 18 food service establishments with grease traps and interceptors.  This regulation will continue to be 
strongly enforced as Fats, Oils and Grease (FOG) can negatively affect the smooth operation and maintenance 
costs of the sewer system.  While the Grease Trap Regulation focuses on commercial and public disposal, indi-
vidual home owners can also contribute a significant amount of grease into the system which increases every-
one’s costs. Whether on sewer or septic, grease should not be put down the drain.   
In August 2013, the Sewer Commission began contracting with Small Water Systems Services of Littleton 
(SWSS) for the Operations and Management of the 10 pumping stations and sewer infrastructure. The Sewer 
Commission has been very satisfied with the personnel, the work and the arrangement with SWSS, renewing 
the contract for two successive years.   
===PAGE 77===
77 
In April 2016, anticipating the end of the three-year renewable contract, the Sewer Commission put the 
maintenance of the sewer system out to bid.  Small Water was awarded the bid and we are happy to contin-
ue this great partnership for 3 more years.  The new contract, effective 7/1/16, was expanded to include the 
generators in each pump station and quarterly meter readings for manual and irrigation accounts.    
 
At the May 2016 Town Meeting, the Commission put forward 5 articles, 3 of which related to the budget 
and stabilization funds. For the standard budget article to appropriate funds for FY17, $69,775.27 was trans-
ferred from Retained Earnings to cover both general expenses and debt service on the betterments.  The goal 
of the Sewer Commission is to maintain a balanced budget going forward and to build up the Retained 
Earnings so that it may be used for major capital projects to maintain and improve the operating efficiency 
of the system.   The fourth article updated the Sewer Bylaw to mandate the holding of 2 public hearings to 
ensure public participation in regulation changes.  The fifth article was to present the updated Comprehen-
sive Wastewater Management Plan (CWMP) for acceptance.  The CWMP needed updating since the origi-
nal master plan was put into place in 2010.  Wright Pierce had completed the original evaluation and plan 
and worked with the Commission to update the CWMP.  This master plan is a great source to the Town for 
checking compliance and future planning.   
 
The Commission would like to thank Troy Daniels, who resigned from the Commission January 14, 2016 
and  Mike Nault, who did not seek re-election in May 2016; also Sue Bunish who resigned from the Sewer 
Commission in July 2016 citing personal reasons, for all their hard work and dedication.  In the May 2016 
town election John Reynolds was elected to a 3 year term. With the resulting vacancies, two openings were 
filled by appointment in July 2016 when the Commission welcomed Joseph Anderson and Joan Pease. 
Richard St. Cyr was appointed in October 2016 and we thank them all for their willingness to serve on the 
Commission.  Bob Ebersole continues to serve as the Board of Selectmen liaison and the Commission is 
grateful for his knowledge and counsel.  Jay Simeone, a past member of the Sewer Commission, serves as 
the Finance Committee liaison to blend his experience on the Commission with its financial planning and 
we thank him for his participation. The Commission would also like to thank Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Direc-
tor, for the seamless and smooth operation of the Sewer Division of the DPW and Jim Breault (DPW-
Facilities) who whenever called upon, provides his expertise and service to the Sewer Division.  They 
would also like to acknowledge and thank the Lunenburg Water District for their partnership and good 
working relationship with the DPW and especially with Business Manager, Barb Lefebvre, in providing 
valuable assistance with meter readings, ownership changes, and status updates.       
 
Current Commission as of report submittal (Feb 2017): 
Carl Luck, Chair 
John Reynolds, Vice Chair 
Joe Anderson, Clerk  
Joan Pease, Member 
Richard St. Cyr, Member 
 
 
===PAGE 78===
78 
VETERANS SERVICES 
 
The Veterans Agent is available for assistance to Lunenburg veterans and family on Tuesday evenings from 
4:30 – 6:30 P.M. on the second floor of the Eagle House Senior Center, located at 25 Memorial Drive. Service 
is provided on an as-needed basis for all Veteran Administration and State and Federal- related issues.  
 
The Veteran’s Agent provides a variety of services: 
 
Answering VA-related inquiries such as eligibility for benefits/services and where to obtain them 
Assistance in filling out forms for services for veterans and family members 
Applications for disability services and benefits 
Annuity verification for 100% disabled veterans 
Medical services applications 
Assistance in getting military discharges and upgrades of the same, if needed 
Assistance in acquiring burial plots in the state veterans cemetery  
Referral to veteran housing programs  
Referral to veteran employment services 
Provide information on veterans home loan program 
Provide veterans identification cards 
Provide information on tax abatements 
All other veteran-related issues and services 
 
This office averages 1-3 office visits per week and handles an average of 4+ phone calls and messages per 
week. During 2016, twelve veterans and family members were assisted with financial benefits from M.G.L. c. 
115, Veterans’ Benefits.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
T.J. Blauser 
Veterans Agent 
 
 
===PAGE 79===
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROTECTION OF PERSONS & PROPERTY 
===PAGE 80===
80 
BOARD OF HEALTH 
 
The Board of Health Office is located in the old Ritter Library building on the corner of Mass. Ave and Le-
ominster Road.  Our office is on the upper level at the end of the hall on the right.  We can be reached at 978
-345-4146, extension 430.  
 
The Board of Health, with the assistance of its agent, the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health , continued  
its mission to maintain my maintain its focus on public health and safety issues during 2016, reviewing Title 
V Inspection Reports, building permits, septic and well permits, nuisance investigations, housing inspec-
tions, complaints and general public health related issues.    
 
This past year has seen the reinstatement of the Septic System Repair Program which helps low to moderate 
income families replace failed septic systems or connect to public sewer.  Anyone interested in finding out 
more about this program can contact the Board of Health office. 
 
Homeland Security planning is ongoing.  Meetings continue between our agents, other town Departments 
and regional entities to develop a plan for not only Lunenburg but with our partner towns in our region.   
 
This year, we processed  applications for Septic Permit Lot Tests, permits for new construction, new wells, 
repairs or upgrades to septic systems and well permits.  The Board continues its vigilance with regard to sep-
tic systems, wells, food service inspections, housing and nuisance complaints and its general mandate to pro-
tect the environment and groundwater of the Commonwealth.   
 
The Board of Health provides numerous other services in cooperation with our Health Agents, the Nashoba 
Associated Boards of Health. In addition to our environmental services, numerous clinics are provided 
throughout the year to our residents.  These clinics provide inoculations, blood pressure screenings, Well 
Oldster Clinics and dental screening. fluoride treatment and dental checks of our youngsters in the school 
system are provided by the Nashoba dental staff. 
 
The Town of Lunenburg participates in the Central Mass. Mosquito Control Project.  Mosquito Control 
monitors the mosquito population in Lunenburg and advises of any potential diseases such as EEE and West 
Nile Virus and sprays frequently to control the population during the warmer times of the year..  Residents 
who want to have their property sprayed can do so by emailing to:  cmmcp@cmmcp.org, calling (508) 393-
3055, or completing a request on their webpage at:  http://www.cmmcp.org, or calling the Board of Health 
office. 
 
With our Nashoba Nursing and Hospice partners we provide in home visits to ill residents recovering from 
illness and Hospice care and counseling to those in need of this service.  
 
Please contact our office in the Ritter Building for more information.     
 
Please remember that our board members volunteer their time and efforts on behalf of you, the citizens of 
Lunenburg. If you have something that you think we can help you with, we are at your service.  
 
 
===PAGE 81===
81 
 
 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
 Nashoba Associated Boards of Health continues to serve the local Board of Health in meeting the chal-
lenges of environmental and public health needs in Lunenburg.  In addition to the day to day public health work 
conducted for Lunenburg we also provide the following services. 
 
Maintaining Nashoba’s internet website to provide information for the public. (See nashoba.org), 
 
Response to health related impacts of beavers through coordination with the local Board of Health in the 
issuance of the necessary permits, 
 
Response to state mandated changes in regulations requiring more frequent beach sampling through sample 
collection, submittal for analysis, and follow-up when results were obtained, 
 
We look forward to continuing our work with Lunenburg's Board of Health. Included in the              
day-to-day work of Nashoba in 2016 were the follow-ing:  
  
Through membership in the Association, Lunenburg benefited from the services of Nashoba staff including: reg-
istered sanitarians, certified health officers, registered nurses, nutritionists, registered physical & occupational 
therapists, licensed social workers, certified home health aides, and registered dental hygienists 
 
Provided health education programs in collaboration with the Lunenburg Council on Aging 
 
Collaborated with Montachusett Home Care around elders at risk and other safety issues 
 
Reviewed 105 Title 5 state mandated private septic system inspections for the Lunenburg Board of Health. Re-
ceived, reviewed and filed these state mandated (but unfunded) Title 5 inspections; corresponded with inspectors 
regarding deficiencies; referred deficient inspections to Lunenburg Board of Health for enforcement action 
 
 By the Lunenburg Board of Health’s continued participation in the Association you can  
             shape your future local public health programs and share in the benefits of quality service at  
             a reason-able cost! 
 
Environmental Health Department 
 
Environmental Information Responses  
Lunenburg Office (days).......................................97 
    
The Nashoba sanitarian is generally scheduled to be available for the public twice a week on Monday and 
Wednesday mornings at the Lunenburg Board of Health Office. Other meetings occur informally. This does 
not reflect the daily calls handled by the three Nashoba secretaries during daily business hours. 
Food Service Licenses & Inspections.....................………33 
Nashoba annually mails out and receives application from both restaurants and retail food businesses.  Li-
censes are renewed for existing facilities.  Plans are submitted and reviewed prior to initial licensing. Most 
licensees are inspected at a minimum twice a year. Where deficiencies are found, a re-inspection is sched-
uled to insure compliance.  When a complaint from the public is received an inspection is also  

===PAGE 82===
82 
conducted. During this inspection health factors of food handlers is also investigated, and where appropriate 
medical consultation and laboratory testing may be required. 
Beach/Camp Inspections.................................................. 21 
Camps are inspected at least annually at opening for compliance with State Sanitary Code, Chapter IV, 105 
CMR 430.00.  Public swimming beaches are sampled for water quality every week during the summer and 
more often if a problem is suspected.   
 
Housing & Nuisance Investigations...................................24 
Nashoba, as agent for the local Board of Health, inspects dwellings for conformance with State Sanitary Code, 
105 CMR 410.00, issues orders for correction, and re-inspect for compliance.  Similarly, complaints from resi-
dents concerning unsanitary conditions or pollution events are investigated.  
 
Septic System Test Applications.......................................51 
Applications from residents proposing to build or upgrade a septic system are accepted, a file created, and testing 
dates are coordinated with the applicants engineer. 
 
Septic System Lot Tests........................................127 
Nashoba sanitarian witnesses soil evaluations, deep hole tests, and, usually on a separate date, percolation tests 
conducted by the applicant’s engineer which serve as the basis of the design of the septic system. 
 
Septic System Plan Applications…………………………72 
Detailed plans created by engineers hired by residents proposing to build or upgrade a septic system are re-
ceived, filed, and routed to the Nashoba sanitarian for review. 
 
Septic System Plan Reviews .........................…….110 
Engineered plans are reviewed according to state code, Title 5, and local Board of Health regulations and review 
forms are created and sent to engineer for revision.  Subsequent re-submittals by the engineer are also reviewed. 
 
Septic System Permit Applications (new lots)..........….40 
 
Septic System Permit Applications (upgrades)............ 32 
Applicants’ approved plan submittals and Board of Health requirements are incorporated into a permit to con-
struct the septic system. 
 
Septic System Construction Inspections........... 
Nashoba Sanitarian is called to construction site at various phases of construction to witness & verify that sys-
tem is built according to plans. 
 
Septic System Consultations...............................16 
During all phases of application, design, and construction, the Nashoba Sanitarian is called upon for legal details 
and interpretation. 
 
Well Permits.......................................................................22 
 
Water Quality/Well Consultations..................................69 
 Private wells are regulated solely by local Board of Health regulations, The Nashoba Sanitarian 
assist the Board of Health by reviewing well plans, securing well water samples, and interpret-
ing water quality test results. 
 
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice 
Home Health 
Nursing Visits…………………................782 
===PAGE 83===
83 
Nashoba’s certified home health registered nurses visits provide skilled services to patients  
in their home under physician’s orders.  These services include assessment of physical, psychological, and 
nutritional needs. Skills include teaching/supervision of medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV therapy on 
a 24 hour basis, catheter care, case management and referral to other services as needed. 
 
Home Health Aide Visits………………..299 
Nashoba’s certified home care aides provide assistance with daily activities of daily living including bathing, 
dressing, exercises and meal preparation. 
 
Rehabilitative Therapy Visits…………...403 
Nashoba’s therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, and dietary therapeutic interventions through 
assessment, treatment and education. Their integration of client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at attain-
ing maximum functional dependence. 
 
Medical Social Service Visits………………7 
Nashoba’s social workers provide short-term assistance to patients at home for counseling and referral to com-
munity resources. 
 
Hospice Volunteer and Spiritual Care Visits……9 
Nashoba’s volunteers and clergy provide patients with emotional and spiritual support, companion-
ship and guidance. 
 
Community Health Nursing  
Nashoba’s community health nursing program provides an essential public health service to its member 
communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) 16 Standards of Public Nursing Prac-
tice.  
Our staff serves as a resource to the community, addressing questions and concerns from the public on a 
variety of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice, chronic disease management, safe drug/
sharps disposal etc.) in a variety of ways. 
 
We conduct regular well-being clinics for health assessment, screenings and education to 
all, especially the underserved and at-risk populations. 
We report and investigate communicable diseases to formulate and implement control 
guidelines and strategies that protect the health of individual and the community at large 
(mandated by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health). 
We make well-being visits to assess needs, coordinate appropriate care and services and 
provide case management as needed (health promotion). 
We provide public health education. 
We address psych-social issues that may impact general health and safety (i.e. hoarding). 
We are available to collaborate with all municipal staff to address public health nursing 
questions, work closely with Councils on Aging to assist elders in the communities and 
are available for consultation with school nurses caring for children and families.  The 
nursing staff also works with the Sanitarian for your community, as needed, to address 
issues of unhealthy living conditions. 
 
 Listed below is summary of the activities of the Community Health Nursing program. 
 
Nashoba conducted 10 clinics and those clinics offered your citizens: blood pressure screening, 
annual sugar and eye screenings, flu shots and an opportunity to consult with the nurse to 
address questions. 
 
Our staff conducted 24 health promotion/well-being/social worker visits in your communities.  
===PAGE 84===
84 
 
We administered 55 flu shots through our annual clinics. 
 
Nashoba reviewed, investigated and reported on the following cases of communicable diseases from 
             your community.  Though the daily reporting and investigating work is not always visible it is     
             vital to protect the public from the spread of disease. 
  
Investigated 53 
Confirmed 19 
 
  
      Communicable Disease Number of Cases 
 
Anaplasmosis 1 
Calivirus/Norovirus 1 
Campylobacter 1 
Hepatitis C 3 
Influenza 9 
Strep Pneumoniae 1 
Salmonella 2 
Yersiniosis 1 
 
Dental Health Department 
 
Examination, Cleaning & Fluoride - Grades K, 2 & 4 
Nashoba’s registered dental hygienists, operating out of the school nurse’s office and records, provide 
these services to those children whose parents have given written consent. 
 
  Students Eligible.............................................. 375 
   Students Participating....................................206 
  Referred to Dentist.............................................27 
 
Instruction - Grades K, 1 & 5 
Nashoba’s registered dental hygienists also provide classroom instruction of cleaning and maintaining 
health teeth to all children in these grades. 
 
  Number of Programs......................................10 
===PAGE 85===
85 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
                                 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are 
dedicated to providing the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to 
the citizens of the Town of Lunenburg. 
 
In 2016 your Fire Department responded to 1986 calls for service, broken down as follows:  
 
Fires & Hazardous Conditions                 475                Emergency Medical      965 
Inspections                  508                  Other                             38 
 
Fire Department staffing today is five Career and forty-forty-five On Call Firefighters and 
Emergency Medical Technicians.  The station is manned seven days per week, but only from 6:00 a.m. - 
6:00 p.m.  During those hours the station is manned with two-three Firefighter/Emergency Medical 
Technicians, plus the Chief of Department and EMS Coordinator weekdays.  This coverage is a 
combination of full-time personnel in conjunction with 72 hours per week of per diem coverage.  The per 
diem coverage is provided by our Call Firefighter/EMT’s manning the station at their hourly call rate.   
At night however, the station is unmanned and all of our personnel respond from home on an “on 
call” basis.   This adds several minutes or more to our response time as personnel must respond to the 
station, pick up the appropriate equipment and then respond the call.  
It should be noted that except for the addition of forty-eight hours of per diem coverage on 
Saturday and Sunday (2 per diem Firefighter/EMTs from 6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. each day), our staffing 
model has remained unchanged for over fifteen years.  In this same time period we have seen an almost 
48% increase in the call volume that we respond to. 
Our call volume in 2016 matched what we experienced in 2015, which was our busiest year to 
date.  As our community continues to grow I can only anticipate the demand for emergency services to 
grow along with it. Once again I must state the need for 24 hour staffing in the station.  Funding to 
maintain a minimum of two Firefighter/EMTs or Paramedics in the station 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 
is critical to maintain the high level of service our townspeople expect.   This would allow either the first 
ambulance or first piece of fire apparatus to respond immediately.  Not only would this reduce our 
response times to critical emergencies, it would also reduce the “wear and tear” on our Call members.   
This coverage would in no way reduce the need for our On Call personnel; it would only supplement their 
response and reduce response times.  
Recruitment and Retention of our Call Firefighters continues to be one of the greatest challenges 
for the department and is my main reason to call for more permanent staffing in the station.  Make no 
mistake, our Call personnel do an outstanding job, and their commitment never ceases to amaze me.  
However, like many Call Departments we suffer from a continual turnover in personnel.  Public Safety is 
a field where training and experience are critical.  A new Call Firefighter/EMT must attend over 340 
hours of initial training, plus additional time in orientation and field training.  Members qualifying to 
drive fire apparatus must complete an additional 65 hours of classroom and practical training.  On 
average, it takes a new member one and a half to two years to properly complete these requirements.  
Unfortunately, for a variety of reasons we often do not retain members for more than 5 - 6 years.   
                   655 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
       CHIEF 
 Patrick A. Sullivan 
 TEL: (978) 582-4155 
 FAX: (978) 582-4033 
 

===PAGE 86===
86 
 
 
As an example, for the period of 2006-2016 we had a total of 52 Call Firefighters and EMTs 
leave the department.  In that same time we have retained 24 members, or barely half that number.  In this 
same time period, only one of the 5 Career Staff left, and that was a retirement.    This trend is most 
obvious when you look at the years of service within the organization.  At the end of 2016, 47% of our 
department has served for 5 years or less, 63% for 10 years or less.  Only 29% of the department has 20+ 
years of service.  It should be noted that all of the full-time staff have 20 years or more combined call and 
career time with the department. 
 
Several of our personnel are members of Regional Technical Rescue units, providing services for 
Specialized Rescue, as well as Underwater Search and Recovery.  They stand ready to respond as needed 
throughout Northern Worcester County. 
 
2016 was another active year for the Fire Prevention Office, with 508 Inspections, 13 Fire Drills 
and 16 Public Education initiatives performed.   By law we are required to inspect smoke and carbon 
monoxide detector installations when a home is sold, as well as all new oil burner and propane gas 
installations.  Any business holding a liquor license is also required to be inspected for fire safety issues 
as well.  In addition, all new construction projects must have their plans reviewed for proper fire 
protection, as well as ongoing inspections during the construction process.  Personnel also continue to 
provide fire safety education to not only children in our schools but adults as well.    Other Fire Safety 
Initiatives undertaken during 2016 include: 
 
- Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953 to assist with 
Fire Safety Education in both the schools and with senior citizens.  This grant provides 
funding for both materials and personnel to bring fire safety education to our most vulnerable 
populations.  Highlights of activity through this grant include: 
-  
o Educational programs in basic fire safety in Grades K-3, including use of the 
Regional Fire Safety Trailer.   
o  
o Educational programs in conjunction with the Council on Aging.  These included 
cooking and heating safety, a CPR Demonstration and Ice safety. 
 
- Participation in the Senior Center’s “Sand for Seniors” Program.  This program provides 
buckets of walkway sand for senior citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in 
the winter months.  In partnership with this program, our Fire Prevention Officer Captain 
James Ricci delivers the sand to the residents and when possible, inspects their homes for 
smoke and carbon monoxide detectors.  If the resident was lacking detectors, Capt. Ricci is 
able to install free detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant.    
-  
- It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or 
nonexistent smoke detectors. 
 
Several members are also Certified First Aid and CPR Instructors and provide training to both 
citizens and town employees.   
Our department continues to actively pursue grant funding opportunities as they occur, though 
those opportunities are becoming scarcer. 
Our department service truck was replaced in late 2016.  This one ton utility truck with plow is a 
multi-purpose vehicle used for snow removal, trailer towing and moving of equipment to and from 
emergency scenes. 
Apparatus replacement continues to be a concern.  Two of our front line units (Engine 4 and 
Ladder 1) are 21 and 29 years old years old respectively and showing their age through increasing 
maintenance costs and “out of service” time.  The new Engine 1 is handing a higher volume of responses 
to decrease the wear and tear on Engine 4, hopefully prolonging its lifespan.  
===PAGE 87===
87 
 
 Both units have been submitted for replacement on the FY’18 Capital Plan (Engine 4 having 
been turned down in FY’17) and it is hoped that due consideration will be given for their timely 
replacement.  The high reliability required of front line emergency apparatus becomes increasingly 
expensive and difficult to maintain as these units reach the end of their life span.    
 
Firefighter Frank Byrne graduated from the Massachusetts Firefighting Academy’s 
Call/Volunteer Training Program.  This intensive four month program provides the basic skills 
firefighters need to operate in today’s challenging environments.  All newly hired firefighters are required 
to complete this program within one year of hire.   
 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their 
outstanding commitment to the Town.  Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to 
impress me every day.  I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards and commissions for 
their continuing help.  Most people do not realize the level of interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in 
the daily course of town business.  My thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing 
support of public safety.  It is that support that allows us to continue providing the services you expect 
from us.  
 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2016 
 
 
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department*   
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief   
 
James Ricci, Captain/EMT    Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT* 
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT-I    Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT* 
J. Gregory Massak, 
Lieutenant/EMT 
   Shawn McKenna, Lieutenant/EMT 
Patrick Hakey, Lieutenant/EMT*    Christos Lekaditis, 
Lieutenant/EMT* 
Rev. Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain    Karen Weller, EMS Coordinator* 
 
David Augusta, EMT    Kristen Hirsch, EMT 
Matthew Benoit, FF/EMT    Richard Howard, II, Firefighter* 
Richard Bishop, EMT*    Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT 
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT*    Peter Lekaditis, FF/EMT 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT    Kevin Martin, FF/EMT-I 
Frank Byrne, FF/EMT    Warren Mayhew, FF/Paramedic 
Michael Byrne, FF/AEMT    Thomas J. McCormack, Firefighter 
Traci Camelo, EMT    Timothy Paton, Firefighter 
Joseph Cardone, FF/EMT    Tyler Pelkey, FF/EMT 
Charles Colburn, FF/EMT    Ian Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Matthew Cormier, FF/EMT    James Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT    Lori Roy, Paramedic* 
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*    Charles Sampson, EMT 
Paul A. Duquette, FF/EMT    Jamieson Shea, FF/Paramedic* 
Austin Flagg, FF/EMT*    Kelly Szocik, EMT 
Carl Gamberdella, FF/EMT    Evan Valliere, Firefighter 
Matthew Glenny, FF/EMT*     
     
*Indicates member of Regional 
Technical Rescue and/or Dive Team  
    
 
===PAGE 88===
88 
 
Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Police Department 
2016 Annual Report 
Chief James P. Marino 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        CHIEF 
               James P. Marino 
                  TEL: (978) 582-4150 
                  FAX: (978) 582-4159 
 
              
 655 Massachusetts Ave. 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 

===PAGE 89===
89 
 
Administrative  
Chief James P. Marino 
Public Safety Coordinator Linda Carrier 
Lieutenant Michael Luth 
 
Patrol Supervisors 
Sergeant Thomas Gammel 
  Sergeant Sean Connery 
Sergeant Jack Hebert 
 
Detectives 
Detective Sergeant Jeffrey Thibodeau 
Detective (Vacancy) 
 
Community Outreach 
Officer Sean Zrate 
 
Traffic/ K-9 
Officer Joshua Tocci 
K-9 Jerry 
 
Patrol Officers 
Officer Robert Diconza, Officer Joshua Mathieu, Officer Jonathan Broc,  
Officer Brad McNamara, Officer Deven O’Brien 
 
Desk 
Officer Lisa Melnicki 
 
Reserve Intermittent Officers 
Officer Stan Barney, Officer Donald Letarte,  Officer Robert Dacosta, Officer Ben Campbell,  Officer Lisa 
Melnicki, Officer John Morreale, Officer Jacob Lachance, Officer Chad Stateler,  Officer Jonathan May, Officer 
Megan Landry, Officer Zach Levasseur, Officer John Wagner, Officer Kayla Leger. 
 
 
Animal Control 
Director of Animal Control:  Kathleen Comeau 
 
Appreciations and Felicitations 
Officer Peter W. Lekaditas 
 
Pete Lekaditis started his career in 2009 as a Firefighter and EMT with the Lunenburg Fire Department.  
In February of 2013 Pete hired on with the Police Department.  Pete excelled as a Reserve Intermittent 
Police Officer; always the consummate professional and demonstrating tremendous enthusiasm for 
improving the quality of life in our community.  In January of 2014 Pete was appointed as a full-time 
Police Officer.  With his background in emergency medicine, Pete was crossed trained as a Combat 
Medic/Tactical EMT; an important role in current police practices relating to all hazard response, 
particularly active shooter.   
In December of 2016 Pete’s career path took him to the City of Boston where he is now employed as a 
Boston Police Officer.  Pete is always the breath of fresh air and will be sorely missed. We are all very 
proud of Pete and his accomplishments and wish him the very best.  Be safe Pete! 
 
===PAGE 90===
90 
 
Citizen’s Police Academy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I would also like to thank and commend the Citizens of Lunenburg who took part in the first annual 
Citizen’s Police Academy. The program was a complete sensation that continues to garner an enormous 
amount of positive feedback.  I am very grateful for the support of the Citizen students who participated 
and for the generous and unselfish contributions, on the part of the Fitchburg District Court Judiciary, the 
Deputy Chief of the Fitchburg Police Department, and the Lunenburg Police Officers who volunteered 
their time, made this program a success. A special thanks to Lieutenant Mike Luth for organizing and 
facilitating this worthwhile endeavor.   
 
Grants 
 
The Police Department participated in the E.O.P.S. Underage Alcohol Enforcement Grant, the Highway 
Safety Divisions, Traffic Enforcement Grant, MIIA risk management grant, the Office of Justice 
Assistance Bullet Proof Vest Partnership Program, and the Department of Justice, Community Oriented 
Police Services Cops Hiring Program and the Commonwealth Security Trust Fund grant Program.  
 
The Underage Alcohol Enforcement Grant application was prepared by Sergeant Jack Hebert. 
Enforcement efforts related to the grant included compliance checks, Party Patrol, and shoulder taps. The 
program has been extremely successful in the past couple of years with bringing awareness to the license 
holders in our community as well at risk youth. The Traffic enforcement grant, which has been received 
by the police department for several years, is now prepared by Officer Tocci, of the traffic enforcement 
division. The activities include, enforcement for alcohol impaired drivers, aggressive driving and seat belt 
violations. The program is best known as the Click-it or Ticket program. Lieutenant Luth oversees the 
facilitation of these programs which have consistently met with a great deal of success.  
 
State of the Police Department 
 
The Police Department is in operation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The desk is open Monday through 
Friday from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM.  Emergency, Non-emergency and 911 calls are routed through 
Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District, (NVRDD). For all emergencies, dial 911. For general calls 
please call (978) 582-4531.  
The public is reminded to report any animal-related complaints to the Regional Call Center at (978) 582-
4531. For emergencies, dial 911. More information can be found on the Animal Control website at 
lunenburgma.gov.  
===PAGE 91===
91 
 
Dogs must be licensed by April 1st annually. Dogs must have a current Rabies certificate to qualify for 
licensing. This can be done at the Town Clerk's office in Town Hall, 17 Main Street Lunenburg, MA 
01462. Unspayed Female/Unaltered Male: $20 fee. Spayed Female/Altered Male: $5 fee.  Late Fee: $25. 
 
Patrol Officers were dispatched to 16,682 calls for service this year, investigated 300 motor vehicle 
accidents, investigated 1405 incidents, conducted 4034 motor vehicle stops, wrote 2714 motor vehicle 
violations and arrested 490 people.  
 
K-9 Jerry completed 25 weeks of continuous training in January of 2015 and over 75 maintenance 
training sessions to follow. Since that time the K-9 unit has been called out 90 times, deployed 80 times, 
and conducted 50 tracks. The K-9 unit has conducted 26 narcotics searches, which resulted in the seizure 
of 1.039 kilograms of narcotics and 2 handguns, and 4 evidence related searches recovering 2 handguns 
along with other suspect/victim property.  
 
The Desk officer answered approximately 7000 calls, fielded some 3400 lobby inquiries, wrote 94 
incident reports, and 6 field interview reports. This year the day shift desk watch officer was responsible 
for conducting suicide watch and assisting with the court processing of 112 detainees; either taken into 
custody overnight or during the day shift. The day shift desk officer processed 131 Firearms Licenses, and 
registered 13 Sex Offenders. The 3:00 PM to 7:00 PM desk watch officers assisted in the processing of 41 
detainees while providing suicide watch and numerous other services. 
 
Calls for service have increased 42.8%.  The arrest rate spiked last year with 636. Although that figure 
dropped to 490 this year, over the past five years the increase in arrests is up 66.1%. In the past five years 
reportable incidents, those that require an investigation, and/or court complaint, have increased by 66%, 
and motor vehicle accidents are up by 21.4%.  
 
Overall crime is down slightly with the exception of Group A, crimes against society. In that category 
weapons violations have increased. In Group B crimes; drunkenness and check fraud have increased. 
Group A crimes against persons; aggravated assault and sex crimes have also increased. Shoplifting and 
burglaries have decreased dramatically this year however; larceny, credit card fraud, stolen property, and 
vandalism have increased in Group A, crimes against property.  
 
Growth plays a major role in all of this data. Historically; calls for service, arrests, incidents and accidents 
continue to climb.  Traffic continues to increase, which too, has a direct effect on all of these categories. 
The demands for service will continue to rise.  As I stated in last year’s town report, the police department 
has been asking for an increase in staff since 1996. To prove that point I provided clips from every town 
report since that time.  I’ve studied other towns of similar demographics, population, commercial entities, 
bordering communities and found that calls for service, arrests, and incidents were remarkably higher in 
Lunenburg, yet those communities employed from five to eight more full-time police officers than 
Lunenburg.  National Law Enforcement standards call for 2 1/2 men per thousand population. That would 
bring the police department up to 22 full time officers. We presently have 14 including the Police Chief.   
 
The service the public expects has been steadily declining due to inadequate staffing issues over a long 
period of time. Again, the time to properly investigate crimes, solve problems by engaging the 
community, or providing a quick emergency response is continually at odds with the demands of growth. 
The community will eventually see the Police Department as a useless ineffective service that is a drain 
on their income and their support for the police will decline.  This year I am going to request that new 
growth fund an increase in staffing over the next several years on an incremental basis.  I respectfully ask 
for the public’s support for this initiative.  
 
Lunenburg is still a safe place. Despite fiscal challenges, the men and women of the Police Department 
remain focused and faithful to their mission.  I am proud to say, without hesitation, that every Lunenburg  
===PAGE 92===
92 
 
police officer works extremely hard to make Lunenburg safe and secure and provide the best service they 
can to all citizens who live in town, who visit or who are just passing through.   
 
Thank you again for another year. I am very proud to serve as your Police Chief. I value the support the 
citizens of Lunenburg have shown the Police Department. I humbly ask for your commitment as I 
continue seek funding for additional police officers so I can provide a level of service that you deserve 
and are entitled to.  
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Chief James P. Marino 
Chief James P. Marino 
 
===PAGE 93===
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 94===
94 
 
CAPITAL PLANNING  
 
Lunenburg’s Charter specifically mandates that a Capital Planning Committee prepare a Fiscal Year (FY) 
Plan and a Capital Improvement Plan. These plans are to be presented to the Town Manager.  
 
As noted in the past reports, the criterion for any capital request includes Mandates, Safety, Need, Crisis, 
Cost Effectiveness and Ability to Fund. The Committee has to review each request under these six 
elements. Not only do they have to determine that the request fits within the criteria, but they have to 
prioritize the level that meets the criteria. Therefore, not all requests are included in the FY Plans, mostly 
due to funding. The result of the proposed FY Plans provides the needed service for safety and protection 
of the public, the upkeep to our schools and the management of government.  
 
At the Annual Town Meeting in May 2016, the following items, totaling $ 619,475, were presented in the 
FY17 Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee meets each year after the Capital Budget is presented to the Town Manager and considers 
improvement to the methodology of creating the budget. In future preparation the Committee will conduct 
more meetings on site.  
 
Jamie Toale, Board of Selectmen, Chair  
Dennis Mannone Jr., Citizens’ Representative, Vice Chair 
John Henshaw, Finance Committee, Clerk 
Heather Sroka, School Committee Representative 
Matthew Allison, Planning Board Representative 
Kerry A. Lafleur, Town Manager – Ex Officio Member   
Fiscal Year 2017 Capital Plan
CIP Tracker Priority Item Amount Cumulative Cost
PD16-12 1 Police Vehicle, Units 207 & 210 107,000$          107,000$          
PD16-07 2 Bulletproof Vests, 29 Officers 17,500$            124,500$          
LPS16-21 3 THMS, Phone System Replacement 22,000$            146,500$          
LPS16-20 4 THMS, Intercom System Replacement 22,000$            168,500$          
DPW17-01 5 Townsend Harbor Road Bridge 15,000$            183,500$          
DPW16-11 6 Catch Basin Cleaner Attachment 87,125$            270,625$          
DPW17-04 7 Mack Dump 6-Wheel, plow & sand 194,750$          465,375$          
DPW16-07 8 GMC Dump 350 (1-ton w/plow) 53,300$            518,675$          
TECH16-25 9 Town Departments (Technology) 30,800$            549,475$          
FD16-13 10 Pickup, 4 x 4 (M1) Replacement (2003) 70,000$            619,475$          
LPS16-19 11 THMS, Asbestos Abatement / Ceiling Replacement 145,000$          764,475$          
PD16-16 12 4-Wheel Drive, All Terrain Off Road Enforcement Vehicle 16,500$            780,975$          
Total 780,975$          
Due to funding constraints, only items 1 - 10 have been included in the Town Manager's FY2017 Recommendation. The
entire FY2017 Capital Budget of $619,475 will be funded through an outlay of cash. There is no request to borrow funds.
===PAGE 95===
95 
 
PLANNING BOARD  
 
Fourteen ANR plans (plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law) were approved. 
 
Approved residential subdivisions were in various stages of completion.  The following continue to build:  
a nine-lot subdivision on Butterfly Lane (formerly 50 Elmwood Road), Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 
Stone Farm Estates off Massachusetts Avenue, and Sequoia Drive off Howard Street.  TriTown Landing 
off Youngs Road completed construction on Building 4 in January 2016 and all 32 units were occupied 
by May 2016. 
 
The Board approved Site Plan Approval applications for Hannaford-To-Go, Safelite Auto Glass, and an 
auto detailing business; all located on Massachusetts Avenue.  Approval was also given for a restaurant at 
1 Main Street.  
 
There was an increase in the number of scenic road public hearings with the designation of two new 
scenic roads; Northfield Road and Flat Hill Road.  After a road has been designated as a scenic road, any 
repair, maintenance, reconstruction, or paving work done that involves the cutting or removal of trees 
within the Town way or the tearing down or destruction of stone walls requires Board approval.  
Lancaster Avenue and Leominster Road are also designated as scenic roads. 
 
The appearance of Electric Avenue is undergoing change with the construction of a self-storage facility 
and Unitil’s construction to relocate its distribution and operation center from Fitchburg to the site of the 
old Whalom Drive-In Theater.   
 
2016 also saw the Planning Board revise Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw to a more formal Site Plan 
Approval bylaw which outlines a collection of objective standards to bring consistency to the review 
process.  Additionally, the Board adopted Rules & Regulations for filing and submissions under Section 
8.4. 
 
The Citizen Planner Training Collaborative, in conjunction with the Massachusetts Department of 
Housing and Community Development, and the Urban Harbors Institute, University of Massachusetts 
Boston, conducts workshops throughout the year.  Workshops attended by Board members included 
Green Communities Program, USDA Rural Programs, Roles & Responsibilities of Planning & Zoning 
Boards (both Part 1 and 2), Introduction to Subdivision Control Law and ANR, and Planning with 
Community Support.  Some of those workshops are designated (MIIA) which entitles Lunenburg to  
credit under the MIIA Rewards Program towards public officials’ liability insurance.   
 
Board members served as representatives to the following committees:  Matthew Allison on the newly 
created Stormwater Task Force, Capital Planning Committee, and continued liaison to the Agricultural 
Commission; Damon McQuaid on the Building Reuse Committee; Gregory Bittner on the School 
Building Committee and Green Community Task Force; David Prokowiew as the Montachusett Regional 
Planning Commission representative and Open Space Committee member; and Kenneth Chenis as the 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee representative.    
 
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be 
reached at 978-582-4147, extension 5.  Various forms are available online at http://lunenburgma.gov/  on 
the Planning Board’s homepage.  The Zoning Map, Protective Bylaws for the Town, Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, and Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval & 
Special Permits are available online.  The Board continues to work on updating the Protective Bylaws of 
the Town.   
 
===PAGE 96===
96 
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair      Kenneth Chenis, Clerk  Gregory Bittner, Member        Matthew Allison, 
Vice Chair      David Prokowiew, Member        Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
 
 
 
PLANNING BOARD OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE 
 
Over the past fiscal year, the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee advised the Planning Board and other 
municipal boards on Chapter 61 withdrawals, as well as the Conservation Commission on management of 
the William H. and Saundra B. Lane property at Lunenburg Town Forest.  The Committee is looking 
forward to updating the Open Space and Recreation Plan in 2017 in order to keep the Town eligible for 
certain state grants to defray the costs of open space and recreation projects, and to assure the Town is 
taking a measured approach to meeting the residents’ open space and recreation needs. 
 
 
Brandon L. Kibbe, Acting Chair, Member At Large 
Richard A. Brockelman, Member At Large 
Todd Dwyer, Conservation Commission 
Thomas Bertram, Conservation Commission 
David Prokowiew, Planning Board 
Janice Carrier, Scribe 
===PAGE 97===
97 
 
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard sixteen petitions during calendar year 2016.   There were several appli-
cants seeking special permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board meetings are 
held on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month on an “as needed” basis. 
 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:  Raymond Beal, Chairman, Alfred Gravelle, Vice 
Chairman, James Besarkarski, Hans Wentrup and Associate members, David Blatt, Paul Doherty and Sheila 
Lumi.   Lisa Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board. 
 
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows: 
 
To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-laws. 
 
To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws. 
 
To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General Laws, as 
amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or enforcement action 
from the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town 
or other Administrative Official. 
 
To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 
40B.  The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits submitted to the Board under 
Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.  These requests can, by law, circumvent 
local zoning ordinances. 
 
The office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Av-
enue, Lunenburg.  Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 
PM Tuesday and Thursday, closed Friday.   
 
If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978-582-4146 X 421 during 
regular business hours.  Zoning Board applications are available in the office and online at 
www.Lunenburgonline.gov. 
 
 
===PAGE 98===
98 
===PAGE 99===
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDUCATION 
===PAGE 100===
100 
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
 
Our Vision:  The Lunenburg Public Schools prides itself on excellence.  We provide a child -centered envi-
ronment that challenges all learners to achieve their highest potential.  This is accomplished through a part-
nership with a supportive community.   
 
Our Mission:  We prepare our students for life-long learning and responsible community membership. 
 
Our Guiding Beliefs:   
Education is a community partnership. 
Learning is reflective, creative, ongoing, and takes place in all environments. 
A successful school actively engages students and staff. 
All students have talents and can excel. 
Professional growth is fundamental to instructional excellence. 
All students are capable of learning and are entitled to instructional excellence. 
Staff and students are entitled to a safe, healthy and positive learning environment. 
An atmosphere of mutual respect is essential for learning. 
Lunenburg School Committee: 
             Chairperson:  Michael Mackin, Term Expires: 2017 
 Vice-Chairperson:  Heather Sroka, Term Expires, 2017 
 Secretary: Wendy Bertrand, Term Expires: 2018 
 Member: Dawn-Marie Ayles, Term Expires: 2019 
 Member:  Meredith Weiss, Term Expires, 2019  
Regular Meetings 
First Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall - Televised 
Third Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Lunenburg Middle-High School  
Special meetings or changes in meetings are posted at Town Hall 
_____________________________________________________________________________________ 
Central Office Personnel 
Superintendent of Schools                             Special Services 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent                   Julianna Hanscom, Director 
Elizabeth Petersen, Executive Secretary       Fran McCluskey, Admin. Secretary    
                                                                       Emily Lehto, Secretary (part-time) 
 
School Personnel/Business Services  Facilities & Grounds 
Sandra Curley, Manager  John J. Londa, Director 
Kerry Cooper, Accounting/Data Reporting  Robert Roy, Maintenance   
  Brian Sanders, District-wide Utility/Custodial 
Technology/Network Service 
Steve Malandrinos, Director 
Daniel Nadareski, Network Administrator 
Nicholas Scoggins, School Technology Coordinator              Transportation Services   
Jordan Pochini, Technician           Dee Bus Service 
 
Cafeteria Services  
Nadine Lorenzen, Director of Food Services  
Patricia Pichnarcik, Lunenburg Middle-High School Café Manager  
Joslin Schneider, Turkey Hill Elementary School Café Manager  
Claudette Lachance, Lunenburg Primary School Café Manager 
===PAGE 101===
101 
 
Superintendent’s Message 
   What a remarkable year!  The District returned to a four school configuration with the opening of the 
new building and several necessary and attractive upgrades to existi ng buildings.  The completion of the 
school building project full new opportunity and possibilities elevated the excitement across the schools 
and community.  Our excitement and pride was surpassed only by our feeling of gratitude.   
 
Our deepest gratitude is for the voters of Lunenburg who approved the co-located middle-high school 
project and are paying it forward.   This is a school for the entire community and it is our earnest hope 
that the lives of all our citizens are enriched by this magnificent facility. We are also grateful to the 
citizens of the Commonwealth and the Massachusetts School Building Authority for its partnership and 
support of the construction.    We gathered together on October 22, 2016 for the Dedication and Ribbon 
Cutting Ceremony.  During the summer months over 1000 community members had toured the building.  
Over 200 joined us for the dedication including Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, U.S. House of 
Representatives, State Representative Jennifer Benson, along with members of the Board of Selectmen, 
School Building Committee, and the School Committee.  Students Julia Wilson, Robert Nash and 
Brendan Tobin spoke and did a wonderful job representing the students of our schools.  We are very 
proud of them.  They are our hope for the future and represent the best in us. 
   
The long awaited building was delivered on-time and under-budget.  It is everything we hoped for and our 
dream come true.   What a pleasant duty it was to work with everyone associated with this project.   A 
journey that began a decade ago resulted in a splendid modern educational facility due to the enduring 
dedication, hard work, vision, perseverance, and good judgement of so many.   The path was not always 
straight and contained its fair share of ups and downs and is the result of cooperation, teamwork, and 
trust.   These are the qualities we continue to embrace as we turn the page and begin a new chapter. 
  
A community’s schools hold its citizens’ hopes and dreams. It is where that which we cherish most, our 
children, learn and grow.  Like our homes, schools are places where our children are nurtured and 
supported; where children learn to trust and to be trustworthy.  Our schools must ever be places where 
kindness and compassion are in ample supply, freely given and where ideas matter and learning is 
meaningful.  The new building represents a commitment that for generations to come the children of the 
Lunenburg community will always find a place where hope abides and where dreams are made.   
 
Enrollment February 15, 2017 
 
 
Grade Level Lunenburg 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Total 
PK 51  0   51 
K 118 0  118 
1 115 0 115 
2 119  0 119 
Primary Total 403 0 403 
3 135 0 135 
4 126 0 126 
5 143 0 143 
Elementary 
Total 404 0 404 
6 119 4 123 
7 144 0 144 
8 118 7 125 
Middle School 
Total 381 11 392 
9 101  12 113 
10 101  12 113  
11 101  3 104 
12   92  9 101  
Ungraded  6  1 7 
High School 
Total 401 37 438 
All Schools 
Total 1589 48 1637 
===PAGE 102===
102 
 
The Jane Doyle Community Playground dedication was held on Wednesday, November 23, 2016.  This 
new playground is located by the Turkey Hill Elementary School Gymnasium.  The playground was made 
possible by the generous donations and support from the Connor Lourens Memorial Fund; the Arnold 
Family and BEIM Foundation; Turkey Hill Family Lions Club; Lunenburg PTO; the Extended Day 
Program; and many Lunenburg parents and community members.  In addition to the playground, 
basketball courts with areas for the very popular game “four-square” were constructed.    We appreciate 
everyone who made these wonderful, age-appropriate play areas possible.   
 
The Lunenburg School Committee contracted with New England Education Consultants (NEEC) to 
facilitate a strategic visioning and planning initiative this year.  The initial step in this work is a creating a 
Strategic Framework  consisting of a Mission, Core Values, and Vision, all of which serve to set direction 
for the rest of the planning process.  The Strategic Framework is developed members of a Steering 
Committee working with internal and external stakeholders to help assure the values of the community 
are well represented and that a connection is made to the public regarding underlying principles for the 
planning process.  The new framework and plan will be adopted by the School Committee by the end of 
the school year with implementation to begin in the fall.    With the opening of the new Lunenburg 
Middle –High School, the Lunenburg School Committee also committed to develop and implement an 
adult education program for the benefit of the Lunenburg community. An advisory group was appointed 
by the School Committee to research and make recommendations by the end of the current school year.    
 
Brendan Ryan Tobin was the 2016 Superintendent’s Award recipient.  Brendan is the son of Thomas and 
Carolyn Tobin.  During his four years at LHS Brendan excelled in honors and advanced placement 
coursework.   He has been the President of the Class of 2017 since 9th grade.  Brendan is a poised, 
humble, and well-spoken young man who represented his school and classmates extremely well.  He was 
honored at the Worcester County Superintendent's Roundtable Scholars' ceremony in January.  He 
selected the following quote from Colin Powell for that ceremony's program.  “Success is the result of 
perfection, hard work, learning from failure, loyalty, and persistence.”   
 
This past year our schools bid farewell to retirees who devoted many years to public service.  Retiring this 
past year were:  Steve Archambault, Middle School Music Teacher; Rhonda Malatos, High School 
Physical Education Teacher; Judy Haley, Middle School Cafeteria Manager; Linda Papadopoulos, Middle 
School Special Education Teacher; and Natalie Davulis, Middle School Grade 7 Teacher.  When added 
together these employees have 116 years of service to our students, schools, and community.  I hope the 
benefit our children derived from their dedication, compassion, and hard work is repaid in kind with long, 
happy and healthy retirements sprinkled with memories of fulfilled careers. On behalf of our school 
community, I extend to each of them our heartfelt thanks and sincere appreciation for their service.   
 
In closing I want to acknowledge and extend special thanks to the PTO, our parents/guardians and the 
community members who support the PTO.  This year the PTO donated $32,000 to the schools to support 
a variety of opportunities like field trips and educational speakers that are not provided within the school 
budget.   The PTO has a tradition of active engagement and service.  The students, faculty, and staff of 
our schools share this tradition of service to others.  It is vital to our mission and our students’ future 
success in life.    We are very grateful to the entire Lunenburg community for their support of our students 
and schools.    
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent of Schools 
 
===PAGE 103===
103 
 School Facilities 
 
Construction of the new Middle -High School (Phase 1) concluded by late May 2016. Shawmut Design and 
Construction executed the building project with NV5 providing owner’s project management services. The 
School Building Committee continues to provide construction and financial oversight. Phase 2 began shortly 
after the school year ended with removing all furniture from the former high school, relocating all teacher 
supplies and equipment to the new school, removal of asbestos in the former high school, then demolition, 
construction of the new greenhouse and two athletic fields, re -working the student parking lot, tennis courts, 
construction of an outdoor basketball court and remaining site work. Work was nearly complete by late De-
cember 2016. A minor amount of work remains to be completed in the spring of 2017 such as the finish sur-
face of the tennis courts, basketball court and installation of an athletic field scoreboard.  
 
In February 2016, the Town of Lunenburg released a Request for Proposals for rooftop solar systems to be 
installed on the new Middle-High School and Department of Public Works garage. The solar array was to be 
a 20 year agreement that rented roof space and allowed the school district to purchase the electric power at a 
discounted rate. Solect Energy was awarded the contract to install a 349 kilowatt system that would generate 
394,000 KWH per year and would be purchased at a fixed rate of 8.3 cents per kilowatt. Construction began 
in November 2016 and is expected to be complete by early spring 2017. 
 
The focus of school maintenance for FY17 continues to be preventative maintenance of heating and ventila-
tion systems and energy conservation measures. In addition, the maintenance staff began training on the 
building systems of the new school in July.  Conversion of existing interior lighting to LED at Lunenburg 
Primary School began in December 2016 and will complete in March 2017.  Funding for conversion of Tur-
key Hill Elementary School will be a high priority in the upcoming Green Communities Competitive Grant 
rounds. 
 
The third grade was relocated to Turkey Hill, which was re-designated an elementary school, in June 2016. 
To be better able to support grades 3-5, a playground was added to the side of the school by the generous do-
nation of the Connor Lourens Memorial Fund, the BEIM Foundation c/o Erik and Megan Arnold, the Turkey 
Hill Family Lions Club, the Lunenburg PTO, Extended Day Program, parents, guardians, and citizens. The 
playground was dedicated in September 2016 in memory of Jane Doyle.  
 
The FY 17 capital program funded replacement of the Turkey Hill Elementary School phone system and in-
tercom system at $22,000 each. The new systems were installed by Vertical Communications Inc. in July 
2016. For the FY18 Capital Program, the School Department has requested an additional $145,000 funding 
for continued asbestos removal at Turkey Hill Elementary School as its highest priority.  Additionally the 
district is looking to add a security camera system to Turkey Hill Elementary School and Lunenburg Primary 
School during FY17 using funds that are anticipated to be surplus to the operating budget due to reduced cost 
for natural gas and electricity and the impact of the solar projects. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
John Londa, Director of Facilities and Grounds  
 
===PAGE 104===
104 
 
Technology Department 
 
It has been a great pleasure to oversee the stunning technology improvements to the district over the past 
year.  Bringing the new Lunenburg Middle-High School online has provided not only a major upgrade to 
technology for our sixth through twelfth grade classes, but has afforded us the opportunity to expand access 
to devices and improve infrastructure at the Primary and Elementary schools as well.  IPad carts, Wi-Fi ac-
cess points, desktops, laptops, printers and other technology were redistributed from the previous Lunenburg 
High School to the Primary and Elementary schools, improving each of those areas by as much as fifty per-
cent. 
 
The new Middle-High School is home to state of the art technology that is pervasive throughout the building. 
 Interactive projectors and voice-lift audio systems are in all classrooms and collaborative workspaces. 
 Grades ten through twelve are participating in a one-to-one Chromebook initiative, putting a device in 
each student’s hands for use in class and at home. 
 Computer labs, both mobile and static, comprise more than two hundred additional devices for use on the 
premises. 
 A high capacity Wi-Fi system with more than one hundred access points provides ubiquitous, secure ac-
cess to the network for students, faculty, and staff – even allowing for multiple devices per person. 
 A beautiful new auditorium space with professionally designed sound, lights and rigging is available for 
use not only by students and school personnel but for town functions and outside productions and events 
as well. 
 
The newly named Turkey Hill Elementary School has seen some significant technology improvements this 
past year.  The number of Wi-Fi access points was increased by fifty percent, improving coverage and capac-
ity throughout the building.  Additional iPad and Chromebook carts have been deployed, some from the pre-
vious Lunenburg High School and some donated by extremely generous individuals and organizations.  Ad-
ditional multimedia carts were also deployed providing projection and audio capabilities to more classrooms. 
 
Lunenburg Primary School also benefited from the closing of LHS.  Again, we were able to increase the 
number of Wi-Fi access points by fifty percent, deploy additional mobile computer labs, replace outdated 
classroom computers, and increase the availability of multimedia carts. 
 
The Technology Department is also proud to have added an additional full-time staff member, our School 
Technology Coordinator Nick Scoggins.  Our goal is always to use technology to enhance our students’ 
learning experience, and to get that technology into as many students’ hands as possible.  This past year has 
provided us with an opportunity to do that on a grander scale than ever before. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Steve Malandrinos 
Technology Director 
 
===PAGE 105===
105 
Special Services Department 
FY16 (data taken from 2015-2016 school year) 
 
From the March 1, 2016 report, there are two hundred and ninety nine students with disabilities re-
ceiving special education or related services in Lunenburg.  This represents 18.8% of our total student popula-
tion of 1,587 students (it was 17.2% last year).  The state average from the 2016 school report card is 17.2%.  
As of March 1, 2016, the total number of students receiving services outside the district was nineteen (last 
year was thirty).  Of the nineteen students, four are placed in Collaborative Placements, twelve are in Day 
Placements and three are in Residential Placements.  Additionally, as of January 12, 2017, one hundred four-
teen students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg.   
This year as a district, our overall Accountability and Assistance Level is Level 2 with the Primary 
School, Turkey Hill Middle School, and Lunenburg High School all being listed as Level 2 (LHS was Level 1 
last year).  The state report card lists the district’s determination of need for Special Education technical assis-
tance or intervention for Students with Disabilities in Lunenburg as “Meets Requirements – At Risk 
(MRAR)”. The district’s Students with Disabilities progress towards narrowing proficiency gaps [Cumulative 
Progress and Performance Index (CPI): 1-100)] is listed at 45 (it was 46 last year) with the target set for 75.  
Students with Disabilities participated in MCAS this year with the following rates:  English Language Arts = 
99% (it was 99% last year), Mathematics = 100% (It was 99% last year), and Science = 100% (It was 100% 
last year).   
This data can be found at the DESE website: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?
linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5& 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole Spe-
cial Services Department.  Department of Elementary and Secondary Education requires us to collect data for 
certain Indicators they are targeting each year.  For our Indicators, the following information is available be-
low and also can be found at: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2014-2015 school year, the state target for Students with Disabilities 
was 82.0%. Lunenburg’s rate was 66.7% and the overall state rate was 69.9% for Students with Disabilities.   
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2014-2015 school year the state target for Students with Disabilities was 
3.0%. Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was 0% (it was 2.2% last year) and the overall state rate was 
2.9%.   
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS.  For the 2015 MCAS, Lunenburg Stu-
dents with Disabilities CPI ratings were as follows: 
 
  Grade 3 – Reading:               Lunenburg = 63.4  State = 63.3  
 Grade 3 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 43.5  State = 66.6 
  Grade 4 – Reading:               Lunenburg = 47.2  State = 56.5  
 Grade 4 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 50.0  State = 58.7 
  Grade 5 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 65.4  State = 64.3  
 Grade 5 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 71.2  State = 58.3 
  Grade 5 – Science:               Lunenburg = 73.1  State = 60.0  
  Grade 6 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 59.0  State = 64.3  
 Grade 6 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 50.0  State = 55.7 
  Grade 7 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 77.6  State = 67.2  
 Grade 7 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 52.4  State = 46.5 
  Grade 8 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 83.3  State = 73.0  
 Grade 8 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 56.3  State = 50.5 
  Grade 8 – Science:               Lunenburg = 57.3  State = 50.8  
Grade 10 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 86.8  State = 88.1  
 Grade 10 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 73.5  State = 69.7 
  Grade 10 – Science:               Lunenburg = 83.3  State = 71.2   
===PAGE 106===
106 
 
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, our rate 
was 0% (last year it was .7%.  The state rate was 1.1%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant dis-
crepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2015, Lunenburg was not found to 
have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.  
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6-21 with IEPs. For 2014-2015, the state’s target 
rates are as follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 60.5%, Partial Inclusion = N/A, Substantially Separate 
Placements = 14.5%, and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 5.5%.  In 
Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:  Full Inclusion = 69.6, Partial = 13.2%, Substantially Separate = 
7.0% and Separate schools, Residential, etc. = 10.1%.  
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3-5 with IEPs.  The 2014-2015 state rates 
showed the percent of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full 
Inclusion early childhood program was 41.0%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was N/A, a Substantially Sepa-
rate Placement (special education class, separate school, or residential facility) was 13.5%, and students not 
attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was N/A. In 
Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 32.4%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 44.1%, Substan-
tially Separate rate was 17.6%, and Related Services was 5.9%. 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special 
education who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results 
for students with IEPs.  For 2014-2015 the state target was 85%.  Lunenburg’s rate was 78.3% and the state’s 
rate was 79.7% (from information collected in the spring of 2013).  
Indicator 9 & 10 - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special 
Education Categories.  In Lunenburg the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in either 
case.  
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   This indicator measures the % of children with parental consent 
to evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established timeline. Data is reported for all initial evalua-
tions initiated in October, November, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 100% in 
compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 98.7%.  
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, 
found eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third 
birthdays. The state target for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppressed”.  Data is sup-
pressed if the number of students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is fewer 
than 10.  In Lunenburg, only 2 students were referred during 2012-2013 (we have not been reviewed since 
2012-2013 for updated data in this area).  
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  This indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above 
with an IEP that includes appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based 
upon an age appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will rea-
sonably enable the student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's 
transition service needs. Lunenburg was rated 100% in compliance and the state average for this Indicator 
was 99.2% (we have not been reviewed since 2011-2012 for updated data in this area).  
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students 
with IEPs who exited high school during the 2013-14 school year and self-reported post-school engagement 
in education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through three meas-
urements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school. 
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high 
school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training pro-
gram; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high school. 
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post-
secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2014-2015 school year state targets for the 
three measurements of Post-School Outcomes are Measurement A: 47%; Measurement B: 82%; and  
===PAGE 107===
107 
Measurement C: 89%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows:  Measurement A = 50%, Measurement B = 75% and 
Measurement C = 75%.   
 
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support 
group for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, 
which currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I services and parents of students with disabil-
ities.  Meetings are typically held the first Friday of each month, 11:00AM, in the Planning Room at the 
Middle School.  The executive board is made up of Chairperson: Kelly Harvey. Several events and presenta-
tions were organized by the PACSAL for both parents and teachers in Lunenburg this year. For more infor-
mation, go to: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/pacsal  
In conclusion, the Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services 
to meet the varying needs of our students in the least restrictive environment.  We have an experienced, 
hardworking staff that works together with parents to provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal 
partners in our efforts to develop challenging and focused educational programs for children.  We remain 
committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools mission, “We prepare our students for lifelong learning and re-
sponsible community membership.”  This is a total community effort and we encourage ALL Lunenburg 
residents to join with us to create positive experiences and futures for our children.   
For additional information, please visit our website at: https://sites.google.com/a/
lunenburgschools.net/special-services/, or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special 
Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 305. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Julianna Hanscom 
Special Services Director 
 
Lunenburg School Lunch Program 
2016-2017 
 
The Food Service Director Nadine Lorenzen and the program managers Patti Pichnarcik at Lunenburg Mid-
dle-High School, Joslin Schneider at Turkey Hill Elementary School and Claudette Lachance at the Primary 
School would like to highlight some of the lunch programs endeavors started this year beginning with the 
catering service and menu. Let us cater your next event, large or small. Our presence at the schools’ Open 
Houses was a great opportunity for parents to sample menu items served in our cafeterias. The menus for all 
of our cafeterias have been updated with calorie and carbohydrate counts. The Middle- High School will be 
launching made-to-order deli sandwiches in the next couple of weeks. We have also had some productive 
tastings in all of the cafes leading to some new menu items like fruit and yogurt smoothies, shaker salads 
and most recently Uno pizza. We look forward to more tastings and serving our school community healthful 
appetizing meals.  
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Nadine Lorenzen 
Food Service Director 
 
===PAGE 108===
108 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL 
 
The Lunenburg Primary School is an early childhood education center for students Preschool to 2 nd 
grade.  Our students range from three to eight years old. Our community is made up of students, parents, 
teachers and support staff; working together to create an educationally rich and safe learning environment that 
focuses on the whole child.  
The October 1, 2016 student count reported to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion was three hundred and eighty–six students.  Our Preschool program services forty-one three and four year 
old students. We have five Kindergarten classes servicing one hundred and eighteen students. Class sizes in 
our Kindergartens are at 23 to 24 students.  First grade has one hundred and eleven students with class sizes 
ranging from 22 to 23. Second grade has one hundred and sixteen students with class sizes ranging from 23 to 
24 students.  Students and staff this year are enjoying the extra space produced when the third grade students 
and staff were moved to the Turkey Hill Elementary School as a result of the new Lunenburg Middle -High 
School build. 
Our professional development this year centered on Everyday Math Online Resources, Responsive 
Classroom and Emotional Intelligence. All of our classroom teachers are working on improving the use of 
Responsive Classroom Learning Curriculum which includes morning meetings, guided discovery, rules, logi-
cal consequences and academic choice.  Two years ago we updated our math curriculum and materials to 
Every Day Math.  Teachers have been involved in two years of professional development activities focused 
on lesson structure, math games and developing ways to incorporate technology into their teaching of math. 
This year students and parents were given access to the online resources as well so that students and parents 
have a place to explore math concepts and access games on line to practice math skills.  
To strengthen our commitment to focusing on the whole child and the Social Emotional Learning 
(SEL) needs of our children, teachers and staff have received professional development on Responsive class-
room and Emotional Intelligence.  Mrs. Nancy Chapdelaine has led our educators through in -service lessons 
dedicated to Understanding the Power of Our Words and Morning Meeting structures and strategies. After 
attending the Yale Institutes RULER Training, Mrs. Dorsey; School Psychologist, Mrs. Favreau; 1 st Grade 
Teacher and Mrs. Blaisdell, Principal, led teachers through completing PD hours focused on Emotional Intel-
ligence using RULER.  The PD activities have focused just on the staff understanding RULER and learning 
how to utilize the tools to understand their own emotions and how they affect our work together with children. 
This is the beginning of a three to four year commitment to making the Lunenburg Primary School one that 
focuses on helping our community of students, staff and parents understand their emotions and how we bring 
our best selves to the learning we do each and every day.  Information on these two SEL’s can be found at 
https://www.responsiveclassroom.org/ and http://ei.yale.edu/ 
The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to 
insure that all students have the services they need to be successful. Common assessments are completed in 
the fall, winter and spring for all children in grades K -3 in the areas of reading, writing, and math.  These 
common assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of teacher instruction and drive individual student 
instruction.  Struggling students are identified quickly and additional resources and instruction are provided to 
address the areas of concern identified.  Tiered instructional services are provided in the area of Language, 
Arts and Math.  The tiered instructional model requires that the teachers not only meet the needs of the stu-
dents who may be struggling with learning but those students who are doing well and need to achieve higher 
levels of learning.  Learning is more personalized and students are being challenged to be confident independ-
ent learners and problem solvers. 
Our staff works hard to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and supportive of each of our 
members. We have high expectations, insist on respectful behavior, and recognize the importance of building 
a community where members feel a sense of belonging and responsibility to contribute.  Our students have 
maintained a high level of community engagement and civic learning that is fostered through service learning 
projects at each grade level.  The Kindergarten students learn about our local food bank and gift mart and 
sponsor school-wide can and gift drives through-out the year.  Our  
===PAGE 109===
109 
2nd grade students have learned about our local veterans and organized Valentines to go to area Vet-
eran’s Hospitals.  Students in the First grade have committed their energy to support our local animal shel-
ters. 
The Primary School Parent/Teacher Advisory Council meets each month to discuss school issues, 
review the annual budget for the school and advise administration on the school’s parent handbook and to 
develop the School Improvement Plan. 
 
Members of the Council for the 2016-2017 school year were as follows: 
 
Principal:      Elaine E. Blaisdell 
Assistant Principal    Chad Adams 
Teachers:       Ita Murphy, Vicky Barbier, Nancy Murray, Christa Palma  
Parents:          Kristen Burns, John Eberly, Jared Perrine 
Community Representative:         Julie Bertram 
School Committee Rep:      Dawn-Marie Ayles  
 
The faculty and staff of the Primary School are extremely proud of the work we do with our children.  
We are deeply committed to student learning, our own life -long learning and improving learning.  Only 
through working with parents as partners are we able to accomplish our goals.  For more information about 
the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our website: https://sites.google.com/a/
lunenburgschools.net/primary/ 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Elaine E. Blaisdell 
Principal 
 
 
===PAGE 110===
110 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
 
 
 
Central Office Second Grade Teachers 
Elaine Blaisdell-Principal 2A-Vickie Barbier 
Chad Adams-Asst. Principal 2B-Jackie Favreau 
Denise Galloway-Admin Secretary 2C-Sara Kenney 
Lisa Lavery-School Nurse 2D-Maria Courtemanche 
Samantha Dorsey-Psychologist 2F-Nancy Chapdelaine 
Karen Tata - Office Clerk  
Pre-School Physical Education/Health 
Sherrie Flynn - Teacher Gen Nass 
Jeanette Biery - Para Art/Library 
Ita Murphy - Teacher Lori MacDougall 
  
Susie Barney - Para 
  
  
Music 
Patti McColl - Para Katie Swenson 
Marie Martin - Para Technology 
Achieve Kristen Sauvageau 
Christine DeFelice-Teacher  
Shelly Muth Special Education 
 Lisa Stone 
Laurene Broden - Para Michelle Withers 
Jen Leroux - Para Kristen Anthony 
Laurie Xarras - Para Reading Specialist 
Kindergarten Karen Rash 
K1-Kirsten Snape - Teacher Paraprofessionals 
Pat Siciliano - Para Sue Finnegan - Pre-School 
K2-Maribeth Ford - Teacher Sue Ahearn - 2nd/grade 
Cinny Mobley - Para Beth Robinson - 1st Grade 
K3-Sheila Bilotta - Teacher Alicia McCallister - Kindergarten 
Julie Drake - Para Specialists 
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher Mary Sieling - Speech 
Monique Mola - Para Cathy Zayka - Speech 
K5 - Nancy Murray - Teacher Sue Richards - Phys. Therapist 
Amy Raffaele - Para Jayne Dusek - COTA 
 Maggie Porpora – Occup. Therapist 
First Grade Teachers Kristi Schuta-BCBA 
1A - Michael Courtemanche  
1B - Nicole Bienvenu Cafeteria 
1C - Joanne Londa Claudette Lachance - Cafeteria Mgr. 
1D - Christa Palma Sheryl Ewen 
1E - Justin Sparks Joan Newell 
 Karolyn Braman 
  Custodians 
  
Richard Krafve 
Ken Corbett 
Justin Sylvia 
  
===PAGE 111===
111 
TURKEY HILL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 
 
With the completion of the new Middle High school, Turkey Hill has been reconfigured as an elementary 
school for students in grades 3 -5. The staff includes a number of skilled veterans who have been reunited from 
T.C. Passios days as well as many young and energetic new educators.  We are focused on developing our own 
distinctive perspective as to how we best prepare students for lifelong learning and responsible community 
membership.   
Our academic priority is to increase student learning and improve students’ ability to think critically and 
achieve at high levels.  The school advisory council has grappled with how we might best reflect progress par-
ticularly focusing this year on math, using MCAS data. We agreed to reflect growth using three measures:  
 Increase by 3 points annually the CPI score in Math 
 Increase to 70% the % of Proficient or Higher in Math 
 Attain a two year average of 50% SGP in Math by the end of 5th grade 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grade 
Level 
2016 CPI 
Score 
Class of 
2026 Grade 
3 xx 
Class of 
2025 Grade 
4 
3rd grade       
87.2       
Class of 
2024 Grade 
5 
4th grade         
81.3 
Class of 
2023 Grade 
6 
5th grade         
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grade 
Level 
 2016 Math 
MCAS % 
Proficient 
or Higher 
Class of 
2026 Grade 
3 Xx 
Class of 
2025 Grade 
4 
3rd grade                      
72% 
Class of 
2024 Grade 
5 
4th grade                       
55% 
Class of 
2023 Grade 
6 
5th grade                        
64% 
Grade 
Level 
2014  Math 
SGP 
2015 Math 
SGP 
2016 Math 
SGP 
Class of 
2026 Grade 
3 
xx 
Xx Xx 
Class of 
2025 Grade 
4 
xx 
Xx N/A 
Class of 
2024 Grade 
5 
xx 
N/A 64 
Class of 
2023 Grade 
6 
N/A 
33 67 
===PAGE 112===
112 
For some staff, professional development has focused on the Everyday Math Program, as the most recent ver-
sion has radically altered the scope and sequence of curriculum to more accurately reflect the demands of the 
Common Core. Other teachers have taken on extra responsibilities as part of the ELA, Math, and Science task 
forces, in order to create comprehension curriculum maps for grades K -12.  We have embraced and continue 
to refine the Teacher Support Team protocol, which examines struggling students’ academic/personal histo-
ries and focuses on the best interventions. Our aim is not only to support a teacher’s current concerns, but also 
to streamline access to important background information and most successful strategies for next year’s teach-
ers.   Staff is learning to access Edwin Analytics, the Dept. of Education’s data warehouse, so they might ana-
lyze the individual MCAS scores of their current students and more precisely respond to areas of strength or 
weakness.  All students were assessed in October and will be again in May using the Developmental Reading 
Assessment (DRA). It is a designed to help teachers systematically observe, record, and evaluate changes in 
student reading performance and features tools to assess reading engagement, fluency, and comprehension.  
We are fortunate to have the services of a full time reading specialist, who works with Title 1 students and 
provides support and consultation for classroom teachers. Finally, we also have a wide variety of academical-
ly themed field trips planned, both out in the community and several “in -house” science and fine arts pro-
grams.    
We acknowledge that social learning in a supportive community is as important to success as academic learn-
ing.  To that end, grades 3 and 4 use the Second Step guidance curriculum, and grade 5 has developed a set of 
lessons that emphasize executive functioning skills.  With the full time services of our guidance counselor, 
many students meet weekly in small groups to develop both social skills and strategies to cope with anxiety, 
focus issues, and academic challenges.  We facilitate the opportunity for outside counselors to meet with stu-
dents one to one. We host the Big Sibs, Little Sibs program on Wednesday afternoons for high school students 
to make connections with younger students in a structured activity group.  We offer a variety of after school 
activities so students might continue to develop their social adeptness and sense of self confidence.  We have 
built time into our faculty meetings for teachers to send every single student a postcard once during the year, 
celebrating their strengths, developing skills, or positive attributes.  We hosted the TIGER program from 
Plymouth State University that focuses on a positive message of inclusiveness and how to advocate for your-
self and others.  We have developed a set of standard expectations for hallway behavior, playground behavior, 
and cafeteria behavior.  
We are engaged in this transition with a foundation of open communication and sound operational practices. 
Our leadership team consists of reps from each grade level, special areas, and special services. We are focused 
on developing the attributes of a highly effective team, as our ultimate goal is to model those attributes and 
see them mirrored in every other “team” throughout the building. We place strong value on turn-taking, empa-
thy, embracing the difficult conversations, and psychological safety. The members are both conduits of com-
munication between administration and staff and decision makers about the direction of our school’s culture 
and priorities.  Likewise, the School Advisory Council, composed of parents, community members, teachers 
and a school committee representative, also provide input and influence the school’s culture and priorities. 
The principal’s role as instructional leader is part of the equation as well. Providing effective feedback to 
teachers around the teaching and learning is an essential element for student success.    
Education is a community partnership.  Ultimately, THES does not stand in isolation. It is the sustenance of 
the larger community that enriches the learning opportunities for students and staff. The list of supporters is 
long and likely incomplete: the PTO whose funds support a huge variety of endeavors, the Lunenburg Lions 
Club who has been so instrumental in the creation of our beautiful playground, an anonymous donor who gift-
ed  an entire Chromebook cart, BoxTop collectors and counters, Hannaford Helps supporters, Community 
Reader day volunteers, parents (both those who support their children at home as well as those who donate 
hours to school), the Rebecca’s Lodge who donated dictionaries to third grade, the Lunenburg Cultural Coun-
cil whose grant makes it possible for our African Arts in Education program, our Veteran’s Day and Memorial 
Day guests and guest speakers.  Their selfless efforts exemplify what we strive to imbue in our children:   re-
sponsible community membership.    
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Heidi Champagne, Principal 
===PAGE 113===
113 
 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School Faculty/Staff Roster 
Administration/Office/Nurse Grade 3 
 Heidi Champagne Janet Marshall 
 Chad Adams Nicholette Dumont 
 Laurie Cooney Leslie Spuria 
 Meghan Marrone Danielle Celona 
 
 
Susan Diamantopoulos 
 Guidance Amy Harrington 
 Gail Okerman 
  
 
Grade 4 
 
 
Erin Blanchette 
 Special Areas Gina Cote 
 Deborah Smith Heather Witham 
 Steve Kyajohnian Charlotte Letendre 
 Kelly Tierney Lynn Marabello 
 Victoria Whipple 
  Learning Center/Special Education Grade 5  
Lynn Wolf Melanie Courtemanche 
 Amy Jones Jeff Cournoyer 
 Lynn Major Lisa Bakaysa 
 Elena Oksanish Brian Chartrand 
 Laura Wyld Sherri Borreson 
 Kristi Schkuta Rhonda Connery 
 Sue Charpentier 
  Maggie Porpora Achieve Programs 
 Cynthia Rosancrans Brittany Pepoli Teacher/113 
Paraprofessionals Bradley Stackpole Teacher/110 
Debra Hitchcock Matthew Buma Para 
Amanda Morrow Megan Rodrick Para 
Kerry Roder Tatianna Eaton Para 
Judith Pierce Steve Pierce Para 
Darlene Caron Liz Johnson Para 
Kelly Waterman Darlene Wagner Para 
Patricia Kilcommins 
  Kathleen Cordeiro 
Terri Klingler Custodians  
 
Tim deBettencourt Senior Custodian 
Cafeteria Howard Hargreaves Custodian/Night 
Joslin Schneider               Jimmy Vaillancourt Custodian 
Sheryl Ewen Rob Roy Maintenance 
Donna Cameron Ed Wilkins Maintenance 
Jennifer Biddleman         Café Monitor   
 
  
===PAGE 114===
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support 
students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated, 
creative, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest com-
munication.   The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the philos-
ophy of educating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by 
which all students become positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in high 
school. Lunenburg Middle School is in its first year as a co-located middle- high school serving grades six 
through eight in a beautiful new facility. Middle school students have experienced some new opportunities 
with the new middle school, such as foreign language for grades seven and eight and increased technology 
instruction from a dedicated technology teacher. Grade six students have an increase in special area oppor-
tunities, such as health, art music and guidance. We will continue to seek out opportunities for students that 
foster critical thinking and problem solving skills that prepare them for high school and beyond. 
 
In reviewing the results of the 2016 Spring M.C.A.S. tests, our percentage of students scoring in the ad-
vanced and proficient range remains strong. The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education did 
not provide 2016 state percentages of students scoring in the proficient and advanced range due to a number 
of districts participating in the PARCC assessments. State percentages from 2015 have been provided mere-
ly as a reference. In five of the six content areas that have student growth measured, Lunenburg Middle 
School students performed in the 50% or higher as a grade level median, indicating average to above aver-
age student growth.  Although we are proud of our students’ performance, we continue to analyze data in 
our monthly results faculty meetings designed to improve our instruction for all students. Our faculty has 
identified areas of improvement based upon the data and implemented strategies to improve their instruc-
tional practices that will help students succeed.   
This is the first year in four years in which the eighth grade has returned to the traditional middle school 
model from the high school. As the eighth grade transitions back to a true middle school model, we reflect  

===PAGE 115===
115 
on strategies that have been successful with students they experienced in the high school setting, while continu-
ing to incorporate the foundations of a successful middle school. This integration of strategies continues to have 
a positive impact on the students we serve and we will continue to refine and implement what is best for stu-
dents.  
We continue to utilize intervention and power blocks during the school day to meet the needs of each individual 
student. These blocks of instructional time that have been built into our master schedule allow teachers time to 
work with students at their own individual skill level.  The philosophy is to challenge students who are high 
academic achievers as well as strengthen skills for students who have identified weaknesses. Teachers are able 
to work with students in a small group to answer individual questions or provide more individualized support.  
We design this support model to allow students to feel more confident, thus, perform better in the classroom.  
We will continue to refine our intervention block times to best meet the needs of our students.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to offer enrichment blocks for all students. Enrichment classes provide 
students a block of time in which they receive instruction in the areas of developmental health and guidance.   
Students also receive instruction in physical education, art, and music classes that allows them to explore their 
strengths and talents. Students also have the opportunity to sign up for and participate in band and chorus dur-
ing this block. This enrichment block is in addition to the traditional special area classes students receive, and 
this block offers students additional physical movement throughout the day, additional opportunities for hands 
on activities and more exposure to the arts, theatre and technology throughout the school day.  
We make a positive impact on the students we serve by offering a variety of different programs developed to 
promote social and emotional growth, self-awareness, and community service. We will continue to utilize De-
velopmental Design and Advisory programs to deliver our social emotional curriculum. Students meet with 
teachers in small groups to teach social responsibility and problem solving, as well as developing empathy and 
promoting positive self-esteem. Our seventh grade students are participating in themes such as embracing and 
respecting diversity.  All of the social emotional programs have been developed to allow students to showcase 
their talents and abilities, grow and improve as individuals, and promote community outreach for the younger 
generation. 
This year, we have been able to offer foreign language back to our seventh and eighth grades for the first time 
in several years. The addition of the foreign language instruction has been well received and the students enjoy 
exploring different cultures and languages.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide educational services and support that ensures student success 
and promotes lifelong learning and responsible community membership. The key components to our success is 
our talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community who sup-
port our teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learn-
ing. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Tim Santry  
Principal  
===PAGE 116===
116 
 
Lunenburg Middle School Faculty/Staff Roster   
 
 
Administration/Office/Nurse 
 
Grade 6 Team 
Timothy Santry Principal Kristine Bassett White 
Rob McGrath Asst. Principal 6-12 Melanie Pouliot White 
Annica Scott Dean of Students(.4) Emily Clarke Red 
Tina Cooney Adm. Secretary 6-12 Beth Arsenault Red 
Katie Berry Clerk Susan Reardon Red 
Katie McGuire Nurse 
  
  
Grade 7 Team 
Guidance 
 
Lisa Leblanc White 
Jeff Dionne Grade 8 Dawn Grebinar White 
Cheryl Nelson Grades 6 & 7 Stephanie Madrigal White 
    Special Areas 
 
Timothy Sheasgreen Red 
Geoffrey Sheldon Music Krista Diamantopoulos Red 
Nicole Therrien PE/Health Annica Scott Red 
Jennifer Rios PE 
  Robin Warren Art Grade 8 
 Dana Belair Technology Linda Collette 
 
  
Meredith Cormier 
 Learning Center/ Spec. Ed.  
 
Amy Raboin 
 Ashley Parent SLP  6-12 Mary Whitaker 
 Maura Lizek Gr. 6 Teacher Martha Sullivan 
 Melanie Mobley Gr. 7 Teacher 
  Sharon McCullah Gr. 8 Teacher Media Center 
 
  
Pam Vallee Gr. 6-12 
Achieve Programs 
   Jamie Lyons Teacher Cafeteria 
 Heather Small Teacher Patty Pichnarcik 
 Kaleem Fountain Para Sarah Rucker 
 Elizabeth Marple Para Stella Carlson 
 Karen Smith Para Carol deBettencourt 
 Nina Sobecky Para 
  
    Paraprofessionals 
   Judy Barone  Grade 6 
  Kathy Hyatt Grade 6 
  Ann Marie Beaudoin Grade  6   1:1 
  Sandra Sheehy Gr. 7  Para 
  Tina Stateler Gr. 7 Para 
  Maribeth Ulf Gr. 8 Para 
  Dawn McGuirl Gr. 8 Para 
   
===PAGE 117===
117 
Lunenburg High School 
 
Lunenburg High School has been a hub for academic and social activity in 2016-2017. We have made the 
transition to the new Lunenburg Middle-High School.  The transition process was far bigger than just mov-
ing from one building to another.  With the middle and high school in the same building, there have been far 
more opportunities than challenges.  High school students have been positive influences on the middle 
school students and the staffs of the middle and high schools now have the chance to engage in vertical team-
ing.  All students in grades 10-12 have been issued a Chrome Book and there are wireless capabilities 
throughout the building.  Every classroom and instructional space has an interactive projector and voice lift 
capabilities. Our students are fortunate to be in a building that can meet the needs of the 21st century learner.   
 
This year, we have gone back to the traditional high school model.  Grades 9-12 are part of the high school 
and grades 6-8 are part of the middle school.  Besides the bus ride into school, there is very limited contact 
between high school and middle school students.  We have two lunches comprised of high school students 
and two lunches with only middle school students.  Additionally, the building was designed to have separate 
locker rooms for middle and high school students.   Overall, there have been very few issues with keeping 
the schools separate.  As a matter of fact, we will likely look for more opportunities to bring the students to-
gether, in the future. 
 
NEASC ACCREDITATION 
Lunenburg High School completed a Special Progress Report for the Commission on Public Secondary 
Schools of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges.  In 2010, the Commission recommended 
that the school receive continued accreditation in the Association. The Commission's decision was based up-
on review of an evaluation report prepared by a visiting committee in April 2010.  The Two Year Progress 
Report, submitted in January, 2013 received high marks from the Commission reviewing our submission.  
The Mid-Cycle Progress Report was reviewed and accepted by the Commission.  A Special Progress Report 
was filed in September to certify that the building project had been completed.  Lunenburg High School has 
been taken off “Warning” status and given full accreditation. 
 
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of fundraising and collec-
tion endeavors. In the fall, a canned goods drive was held and admission to the PowderPuff game was two 
canned goods.  Everything collected was donated to the Lunenburg Food Pantry.  Around the holiday season, 
advisories collected items for the Lunenburg Gift Mart.   
 
There is a Senior English class running this year that has a community service learning component.  Students 
were tasked with researching and identifying needs in the community and then forming an action plan to ad-
dress the needs.  For example, we have students working on: a pet shelter drive, creating trail maps for 
Lunenburg conservation land, bringing a small breakfast program to LHS, and forming a group to inform 
and educate about mental health issues.    
 
Lunenburg High School received a generous donation in the amount of $500 from Mr. Mike’s Mobil in 
Lunenburg, MA.  The grant is to be used toward STEM initiatives at the high school.  We are in the process 
of purchasing a new robot for our Robotics class.  
 
Hannaford Helps Schools made a generous donation to Lunenburg High School of $500 from receipt sales.  
This money will be used to benefit a variety of programs at LHS.    
 
In March, the National Honor Society will be having its annual Blood Drive.  Students sixteen and over (and 
staff members) will be able to participate in the Blood Drive with parent permission. 
 
LHS has held evening presentations for parents/guardians on the following topics: 
===PAGE 118===
118 
 Planning for High School (grade 8) 
 Early College Planning (grades 9-10) 
 Post-Secondary Education Planning (grade 11) 
 College Application Process (grade 12) 
Financing your Education/Financial Aid (grades 8-12) 
 
LHS hosted 40 college admissions counselors in the school counseling office to visit with LHS students.  In 
addition, we held two “Decision Day” programs with Fitchburg State University and Mount Wachusett Com-
munity College. 
 
MCAS RESULTS 
We are pleased to announce that Lunenburg High School is recognized by the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education as a Level 2 school.  As a Level 2 school, we continue to be among the highest perform-
ing schools in the Commonwealth, but shows that we are not meeting our gap narrowing goals.  While we are 
recognized as a high performing school, we understand that there is work to be done in showing growth with 
our high needs population. 
 
Lunenburg High School - 2016 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
 
 
When you combine the percentage bands of the advanced and proficient range, LHS tenth grade students 
scored 99% on the ELA test.  In Mathematics, tenth grade students scored 90% advanced/proficient. In Sci-
ence/Technology/Engineering, tenth grade students scored 92% advanced/proficient.  We are extremely proud 
of our students and teachers for their continued improvement, and we will work to move all students to the lev-
el of proficiency as measured by MCAS and our goal of college and career readiness as they move through our 
curriculum.   
 
We were also very pleased to learn that 30 seniors at Lunenburg High School received the state’s John and Abi-
gail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose MCAS performance puts 
them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one exam 
and Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English and Math exams.     
 
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
Homecoming was once again a great town-wide celebration, culminating with a beautiful parade complete with 
floats representing all four high school classes.  Due to weather concerns, Homecoming was moved one week 
and we were able to play on our new turf field.  For much of the fall season, our home games needed to be 
played off-site (i.e. Doyle Field, Progin Park in Lancaster, and Marshall Park.)  Many of our sports teams quali-
fied for tournament and district play.  The LHS Mock Trial team has performed well this year, going 1 -1 in lo-
cal trials.  The Latin Club, marching band, jazz band and the math team represented LHS in numerous competi-
tions; the 51 th annual Competitive Class Plays delighted the audience, and The Pops and Senior Showcase are 
scheduled for the spring.    
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
National Honor Society successfully supported the “Giftmart” drive during the holidays, helping to provide joy 
to needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies.  The World Hunger Task Force will be rais-
ing money through Penny Wars this spring.  The money will be donated toward the fight against hunger. 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Average (Adv/Pro) 
ELA 99% 91% 
Math 90% 78% 
Science/Technology 92% 73% 
===PAGE 119===
119 
In December, we brought the SHINE Initiative, to LHS.   Three members of the SHINE Initiative gave 
presentations to students in all grade levels.  The presentations were about 45 minutes long. The SHINE Ini-
tiative focuses on the mental health and wellness of children and young adults.  They raise awareness of 
mental illness and help to defuse and debunk some of the misconceptions and myths that have fueled stigma 
for generations.  In January, we hosted a community presentation. 
We started an Advisory program two years ago.  One goal of Advisory is to have students have at least one 
adult who will get to know him/her over the course of four years.  Students were randomly distributed into 
small grade-level groups.  They will stay with the same group of students, as well.   Another goal of Adviso-
ry is to develop relationships with students of different backgrounds and social groups so that students can 
get to know each other and develop an appreciation of the diversity that we do have in Lunenburg.  Some 
Advisories will be facilitating some community service learning projects. 
CURRICULUM 
The staff at Lunenburg High School focused their professional development activities in 2016-2017 working 
on curriculum development, curriculum mapping, District-Determined Measures, vertical teaming, and tech-
nology. 
 
Principal Brian Spadafino Administrative 
Assistant 
Tina Cooney 
Assistant Principal Robert McGrath Secretary Debra Aro 
Nurse Carolyn Finch Clerk Katie Berry 
 
Math   Language Arts  
Sarah Sabatini Dept. Liaison Mary Foyle Dept. Liaison 
Andrew Cantatore  Erinanne Burroughs  
Jennifer Miller  Timothy Macuga  
Eric Short  Michael Hannigan  
Robert Truax  Paul Harmon 
Mary Whitaker 
 
    
Science  Social Studies  
Robert Hill Dept. Liaison Anna Keegan Dept. Liaison 
Mitchell Friedman  Warren Stevenson  
Craig Pingsterhaus  Timothy Normandin  
Jennifer Biery  Hailee Martin  
Dawn Gearin  Timothy Macuga  
Richard Cohen    
    
Joanne Poirier 
 
Greenhouse Asst. 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Language  Unified Arts 
 
 
 
Peggy Proctor Dept. Liaison Alexis Pukaite Dept. Liaison 
Jessica Beardmore  Steve Boone  
Tamara Yourk  Derek Guimond  
Jimena Punales-Santiago  Caryn Wardwell  
Jessica Cormier  Karyn Giuliani  
 
===PAGE 120===
120 
 
Lynn Radford    
 
 
Special Services 
  
 
Peter McCauliff 
 
 
Athletic Director 
Nicole Kromer 
 
Dept. Liaison Darlene Steele Athletic Secretary 
Joshua Koziol 
Jessica Walker 
Virginia Tedesco                              
  
Pamela Vallee 
 
Media Specialist 
Kimberly Jones  Guidance  
Ashley Parent 
Meagan Ackerman                                                                                
Jaime Millett 
Mary Young     
Lori Shea                                                            
Speech/Language 
 
Social Worker 
BCBA 
School Psychologist 
Karma Tousignant 
Susan Cavaioli 
Jeff Dionne 
Penney Borneman                     
Dept. Liaison 
 
 
Guidance Secretary 
 
Paraprofessionals 
  
Cafeteria 
 
Ethan Cheesman  Patti Pichnarcik Café Manager 
Jon Malloy  Carol Hamilton  
Kimberly Monsini  Stella Carlson  
Donna Lavoie 
Lisa Szocik- Maillet                                                     
 Eleni Tsiakalos 
Sarah Rucker 
 
Robin VanAmburg 
Joseph Adamowicz 
Alex Bankuti 
Lyndsi Smith 
Jessica Chait 
Michael Barry                            
  
Custodians 
Geraldine Sampson 
Marc St. Jean 
James Vaillancourt 
Ben Pellerin 
Neil Benoit 
Charles Swift 
 
 
Senior Custodian 
 
                               
                               
 
===PAGE 121===
121 
 
MONTACHUSETT REGIONAL TECHNICAL VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
1050 WESTMINSTER ROAD, FITCHBURG 01420 
 
 
 
 
 
2016 ANNUAL REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 122===
122 
 
MONTACHUSETT REGIONAL TECHNICAL VOCATIONAL SCHOOL 
SUPERINTENDENT- DIRECTOR REPORT 
2015-2016 was an exceptional year at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District.  We 
celebrated “50 years of Excellence in Education,” and through a thoughtful and reflective marketing campaign, 
we were able to honor the school’s history and highlight the successes of our proud alumni and notable 
achievements of our current students.  We launched a robust technology initiative, providing all teachers with 
technology and training in preparation for a whole-school Chromebook rollout in FY17.  Talented students, 
faculty and staff earned countless awards and recognitions, making our district so very proud.  And finally, the 
school began efforts to bring our 21st career and technical education program to the school – Veterinary 
Science.   This work would not be possible without the contributions of the many talented educators and 
administrators here at Monty Tech – a team I am honored to lead in my role as Superintendent-Director.  I am 
delighted to present the District’s 2015-2016 annual report to you, providing a snapshot of the wonderful 
experiences happening on a day-to-day basis here at Monty Tech, highlighting some of the year’s most notable 
achievements, including: 
 Efforts to bring the school’s 21 st vocational-technical program are well underway.  After a careful review 
of workforce projections and student interest surveys, school administrators have begun the process to 
bring a Chapter 74 Animal Science program to the district, which will be open to students Fall 2017.  This 
exciting STEM program will be housed in a state -of-the-art facility that boasts a classroom, science lab, 
grooming salon, and full -service veterinary clinic.  In an unprecedented fundraising campaign, school 
administrators have raised an impressive $1,975,461 in donations and in-kind matching services to support 
this project.  With an overall cost of $2,250,000, construction of the Monty Tech Veterinary Science 
Training Center and Community Clinic is in progress, providing tremendous han ds-on learning 
opportunities to students in our Carpentry, Plumbing, Electrical, Cabinetmaking, HVAC, Masonry, and 
Welding trades. 
 A unique partnership with Workers’ Credit Union has resulted in a full -service branch located on the 
school’s campus, and inc reased opportunities for students to develop authentic financial literacy skills 
while still in high school.  Students studying in the school’s Business Technology program are being 
trained as bank tellers, preparing them for entry -level jobs in banking in stitutions across North Central 
Massachusetts, and financial literacy workshops are being integrated into the curriculum each year. 
 Senior students in the school’s very popular Health Occupations program participated in the first year of 
an exciting new pa rtnership between Monty Tech and Mount Wachusett Community College.  This 
innovative high school-to-college collaboration, which embeds a comprehensive, college-level Emergency 
Medical Technician (EMT) training program into the senior year of study has res ulted in a number of 
students earning EMT credentials, providing additional career pathways in the medical field for these 
talented program graduates.  
 Students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued to demonstrate high academic 
achievement.  In the spring of 2016, Monty Tech’s passing rate on the MCAS English Language Arts 
exam was 100%, Mathematics 99%, and Biology 99%.  
We are so proud of the educational programs offered here at Monty Tech, yet we continually strive to improve 
upon them.  Collaborating with area colleges and universities, we are ensuring our curriculum and instruction 
are rigorous and relevant.  Sharing best practices with vocational-technical colleagues from across the state – 
and nation – we give and take some of the best ideas, with one thing in mind – what is best for our students.  
And what is best, I believe, is preparing students for both college and career.  
 
We hope you will find this report a comprehensive review of the quality education you have come to know and 
expect from Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School.  You may notice that each of the eighteen 
member cities and towns are reflected in this report, and that students performed services in almost every 
community last year.  Providing our students with an opportunity to give back to the communities that support 
them – and support our school – is a pleasure.   
   Respectfully submitted, 
  
Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D., Superintendent-Director 
===PAGE 123===
123 
 
Our Mission 
 
Every student will graduate from Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School with the skills, 
knowledge, and abilities to be a productive and effective member of an ever-changing society. 
 
 
Our District 
 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is a four -year career and tec hnical high school 
serving the member towns of: 
 
Ashburnham 
Ashby 
Athol 
Barre 
Fitchburg 
Gardner 
 
Harvard 
Holden 
Hubbardston 
Lunenburg 
Petersham 
Phillipston 
 
Princeton 
Royalston 
Sterling 
Templeton 
Westminster 
Winchendon 
 
Leadership 
The leadership team at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is comprised of ten talented 
administrators whose varied educational backgrounds, professional experiences, and areas of expertise 
contribute to the success of the school. Working col laboratively, and under the direction of the 
Superintendent and Principal, the team has been able to transform the school into one of the most sought -
after high schools in North Central Massachusetts.  
 
Sheila M. Harrity, Superintendent-Director  
Tom Browne, Principal     
Dayana Carlson, Assistant Principal 
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager 
Pamela Pothier, Director of Technology            
 
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs 
Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Programs  
Michael Gormley, Director of Facilities 
Katy Whitaker, Development Coordinator           
Victoria Zarozinski, Director of Student Support 
Services 
 
Enrollment 
 
On June 1,  2016, student enrollment at Monty Tech included  1,415 students in grades n ine through 
twelve. Students are represented from every community in the district: Ashburnham (56), Ashby (32), 
Athol (85), Barre (37), Fitchburg (362), Gardner (143), Harvard (4), Holden (60), Hubbardston (70), 
Lunenburg (86), Petersham (3), Phillipston (19), Princeton (22), Royalston (18), Sterling (63), Templeton 
(103), Westminster (77), and Winchendon (150). The remaining  25 students were from out -of-district 
towns, including Ayer, Clinton, Dudley, Groton, Leominster, Orange, and Worcester. 
 
Throughout 2015-2016, Monty Tech offered a variety of opportunities for students, parents, and 
community members to learn about and visit the school.  In October 2015, approximately 700 district 
eighth graders participated in the  annual “Tour Day” event.   Students to ured our twenty vocational -
technical areas and learned about the school’s challenging academic offerings and exciting athletic and 
extracurricular programs. Career Awareness Night offered interested students the opportunity to return in 
the evening with their family members to further explore the facilities and talk with staff members.  
  
Each year, the Dean of Admissions conducts school visits, student interviews, and accepts applications 
for admissions.  2015-2016 proved to be an exceptionally busy year for her, as the school received 631 
===PAGE 124===
124 
applications for admission.  Of those, 575 were from students hoping to enter our incoming freshman class. 
The balance of the applications came from students hoping to enter the school as upperclassmen.   Because 
there are only a limited number of students the school can accept each year, 338 freshmen and 3 upperclass-
men were admitted. 
  
The Vocational Interest Program (V.I.P.) offers area seventh and eighth grade students the chance to visit 
Monty Tech after school and participate in hands -on learning experiences across a variety of vocational/
technical areas. The program continued to attract a large number of students during the 2015 -2016 school 
year, serving approximately 600 area students.  
 
Class of 2016 Awards 
Members of the Class of 2016 were awarded approximately $58,000 in scholarships.  The Monty Tech Foun-
dation generously provided $46,000 in scholarships to graduating seniors, ranging in amounts of $200 to 
$2,000.  The Foundation also awarded $4,000 to the Practical Nursing graduates.  Once again, local and state 
organizations, as well as generous individuals, continue to recognize the ability and potential of Monty Tech 
graduates in the form of financial donations. The School Committee, administration, faculty and graduates 
themselves are grateful for this support. 
  
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play an important role in helping reduce the cost of higher 
education.  Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits through a number of articu-
lation agreements with public and private colleges across the country.   Approximately 61% of the graduating 
class of 2016 reported plans to enroll at either a 2 -year college, a 4 -year college/university, or a technical/
trade school upon graduation.  By earning college credits while still in high school, these students will benefit 
by saving both time and money as they pursue advanced educational programs. 
 
Financial Report 
In an effort to develop a cost -effective budget for the fiscal year 2015 -2016, a great deal of effort was put 
forth by the School Committee, administration, and staff.   The final fiscal year 2015 -2016 Educational Plan 
totaled $26,229,366, which represents a 2.3% increase over the 2014 -2015 Educational Plan.  The District’s 
FY16 budget only exceeds the minimum spending required by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 70 by 
$25,000 or .1%. The District was audited in October 2016 as part of the yearly financial audit by the account-
ing firm of Melanson, Heath and Co. from Greenfield, MA and a very good report is anticipated. 
 
Grants and Contracts 
Monty Tech continues to pursue grant funding on an annual basis.  These funds help provide many education-
al and social services to the student population.  For fiscal year 2016, state and federal grant sources provided 
the school with $918,426.  Programs funded by these grants include:  Essential Health Services, Social Inter-
vention and Mediation, Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services and Program Improvement, 
Title I Support, Perkins Occupational Education, and Marine Corp Junior Reserve Officer Training.  The Dis-
trict also received a competitive grant for $136,412 to purchase equipment for the anticipated new Veterinary 
Science Program. Using these allocation and competitive funds, the school was able to purchase a variety of 
instructional technology, equipment, and supplies to enhance the learning experience across both academic 
and vocational programs. 
 
Academic Achievement 
In 2015-2016, students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued to demonstrate high 
academic achievement, earning commendable MCAS scores in English Language Arts, Mathematics and Bi-
ology.  For spring 2016, Monty Tech’s passing rate on the English Language Arts was 100%, Mathematics 
99%, Biology 99%.   
===PAGE 125===
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
    
 
 
English Language 
Arts 2014 2015 2016 
Students Tested 364 374 349 
Passing 100% 100% 100% 
Advanced/ Proficient 95% 96% 97% 
Needs Improvement 5% 4% 3% 
Failing 0% 0% 0% 
Mathematics 2014 2015 2016 
Students Tested 366 375 348 
Passing 98% 98% 99% 
Advanced/Proficient 84% 87% 82% 
Needs Improvement 14% 11% 17% 
Failing 2% 2% 1% 
Biology 2014 2015 2016 
Students Tested 351 347 345 
Passing 99% 98% 99% 
Advanced/ Proficient 74% 77% 78% 
Needs Improvement 25% 21% 21% 
Failing 1% 2% 1% 
 
The District continues to make progress toward narrowing proficiency gaps.  Students in all subgroups have 
met their progress and performance targets, securing the school’s Level 1 Status distinction. 
 
Vocational Projects in the District Communities 
Unlike students in traditional, comprehensive high schools, students at Monty Tech are asked to put their 
education into practice on a daily basis.  Students across the twenty different vocational-technical education 
programs are building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service vehicles, making walk-
ways more accessible, and performing countless community services.  The 2015-2016 school year was a 
busy one for our vocational educators, as each trade aimed to provide practical, hands-on learning experi-
ences for our students, while helping to improve each of the eighteen member communities.   
 
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology: The Monty Tech Auto Body program is led by a strong instruc-
tional team, always eager to enhance the program to benefit the students.  This year instructor Michael 
Forhan revised the freshman curriculum to expand the detailing component, which has been met with great 
enthusiasm from students and clients alike.  Freshmen and sophomores continue to earn industry recog-
nized credentials, including the I-CAR Pro level one certification in refinishing and non-structural damage.  
This certification not only makes our program graduates more employable, it enables students to maintain 
the I-CAR gold class certification.  Throughout the year, students detailed, repaired, and repainted vehicles, 
fulfilling more than seventy requests that included:  an SUV police vehicle car for the Town of Winchen-
don, a wooden statue of Johnny Appleseed, and the antique playground fire truck for the Westminster Lions 
Club.   
===PAGE 126===
126 
All freshmen achieved 10-Hour CareerSafe online certification for General Safety, two juniors earned co-
operative education placements, demonstrating their technical skills in the workplace, and all senior students 
received an Environmental Protection Agency certificate.  (Total enrollment: 62; 35 males, 27 females)  
 
Automotive Technology:  As in past years, the Automotive Technology program continues to service a variety 
of vehicles for faculty, staff, municipalities, and district residents.  2015-2016 proved to be a very busy year for 
the program, as more than four hundred vehicles were serviced by talented students and instructors.  In addition 
to maintaining the school’s fleet of vehicles throughout the year, students were asked to repair a Salvation Army 
disaster relief vehicle, and it was a pleasure to give back to this deserving organization.  Students performed 
very well in the SkillsUSA state competitions, placing third, fourth, and fifth, with hopes to improve in the com-
ing year.  A total of five students participated in the Co-Op Program, applying their technical skills in real work 
settings. Finally, instructors are proud to announce three talented program graduates are working in shops in the 
area, demonstrating the skills they acquired at Monty Tech.  (Total enrollment: 62; 50 males, 12 females) 
 
Business Technology:  Students in Monty Tech’s Business technology program are seeing tremendous benefits 
to the new partnership with Workers’ Credit Union.  The opportunity to participate in teller training and finan-
cial literacy workshops has been met with great enthusiasm from our students, and the instructors continue to be 
grateful for this developing partnership.  Four students were offered co-op placements with WCU during the 
2015-2016 school year as bank tellers, and the two Seniors were offered employment upon graduation.  Monty 
Tech Business Technology instructors, in collaboration with their post-secondary colleagues, have developed 
two articulation agreements, with Mount Wachusett Community College and New England Institute of Technol-
ogy, which will provide qualified students with college credits at no cost to the student.  Opportunities to 
demonstrate customer service, cash handling, and accounting skills are ever-present as the Business technology 
students successfully operate an in-house retail location and greenhouse.  The program’s instructional technolo-
gy was updated to allow students to test on the most up-to-date version of Microsoft for their certifications.  
(Total enrollment: 72; 16 males, 56 females)  
 
Cabinetmaking:  Throughout 2015-2016, instructors and students completed a number of high profile projects 
that demonstrate the true talents and craftsmanship developed in this very popular program.  Some of the more 
notable projects completed by students include:  building the base for the Johnny Appleseed statue and deliver-
ing it to the terminal at Logan Airport for display; building and installing kitchen cabinetry for the Gardner 
Council on Aging; building kitchens and vanities for the school’s house-building projects; building a storage 
cabinet for SkillsUSA; designing, building and installing a kitchenette for the Main Office; constructing cell 
phone cases for shops, as well as an office table, a display case and a brochure holder for the School of Continu-
ing Education.  Students and instructors also completed more than sixty additional projects throughout the 
school and surrounding communities.  In an effort to increase access to our primary software program, Alpha-
cam, the school added more licenses to our program, which has proven to be a tremendous benefit.  A total of 
eleven students (three juniors and eight seniors) were placed in co-operative educational settings, where they 
could build upon the strong technical foundation they have attained at Monty Tech.   (Total enrollment: 73; 50 
males, 23 females) 
 
Cosmetology:  Monty Tech is pleased to introduce Emily Bedard, a talented new instructor in the school’s popu-
lar Cosmetology program, who brings tremendous industry experience and expertise in the trade.  2015-2016 
also brought added instructional initiatives, including the addition of the Hairmax computer system, which was 
updated and installed in all related classrooms so that students are now able to work and learn using this system.  
With a significant increase in the number of clients served this year, the program also generated an additional 
$1,000, which will be used to fund the much-needed consumable products.  In an effort to support the school’s 
commitment to community service, the Cosmetology Juniors traveled to Heywood Wakefield Assisted Living 
Center to do manicures for the residents there, while the sophomore students offered services on the local front, 
during a successful staff appreciation day.  Finally, it is with  great pride that the Cosmetology Instructors an-
nounce that 100% of the senior students passed the Cosmetology State Boards earning licenses to practice.  
(Total enrollment: 89, 1 males, 88 females) 
