===PAGE 127===
127 
 Culinary Arts:  Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and instructors are always busy with the daily operation of 
the Mountain Room Restaurant, which is open for lunch from 11:30 am to 1:00 pm Monday through Friday.  In 
addition to operating a full-service restaurant and bakery, serving 90-120 patrons daily, culinary students show-
case their talents throughout the year, providing outstanding service at events that include the following: two 
Program Advisory Committee dinner meetings, four Monty Tech Foundation breakfasts, Monty Tech’s Retirees 
holiday luncheon, a graduation reception, the Women in Technology event, Principal and Counselors Day, the 
Monty Tech homecoming dance, MAVA meetings and all School Committee meetings and sub-committee 
meetings.  Community service opportunities for students are always a highlight, and this year our students pre-
pared meals for the United Way’s “Day of Caring” event, Our Fathers House, and NEADS events.  Students 
also participated in the Montachusett Opportunity Council’s “Taste of North Central” fundraiser.  The pro-
gram’s greatest undertaking this year was the Annual Superintendent’s Dinner fundraising event.  Students 
worked side-by-side with some of the area’s finest chefs, preparing a six-course dinner with extensive hors 
d’oeuvres for 380 guests.  (Total enrollment: 96; 34 males, 62 females) 
 
Dental Assisting:  During 2015-2016, the Dental Assisting program introduced nineteen students to industry 
experience through externships, while ten students participated in affiliation, and one student earned a co-
operative educational placement, working with an area dentist. All sophomore, junior, and senior students at-
tended the Yankee Dental Convention in Boston, and learned about the most current trends and practices in the 
field.  While the national pass rate for the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB) Infection Control Exam 
was 86% in FY15, the Monty Tech students far surpassed that rate with a 100% passing rate on the Infection 
Control exam.  For the sixth consecutive year, Monty Tech welcomed Community Health Connections, a 
school-based dental hygiene program, whose goal is to provide dental services to students in need.  Through 
this initiative, more than thirty students were examined by a dentist, had their teeth cleaned, and had sealants or 
temporary fillings applied as needed.  Monty Tech Dental Assisting students were given hands-on, practical 
experience, as they assisted the staff from CHC during each dental procedure that was performed. (Total enroll-
ment: 58; 5 males, 53 females) 
 
Drafting:  The 2015-2016 school year was a busy one for Drafting Technology students and instructors. A total 
of six students (one junior and five seniors) participated in the school’s Co-Op Program, and four students ad-
vanced to the SkillsUSA state competitions.  Instructors are pleased to report that a majority of the graduating 
seniors intend to pursue careers in the field of drafting.  Like most programs in the school, the Drafting Tech-
nology program participates in a number of projects in and around the school.  This year, Drafting students de-
signed the preliminary architecture of the new Veterinary Science Training Center, completed plans for the 
plumbing program’s storage shed, drew a layout of Riverside Cemetery in Winchendon, designed a new build-
ing sign for St. Bernard’s in Fitchburg, designed and printed hundreds of signs and banners for various commu-
nity organizations, planned and decorated the 50th Anniversary-themed Superintendent’s Dinner, and created 
and installed signage throughout the building for the 2016 graduation, College Fair, School of Continuing Educa-
tion, sports and drama clubs.  (Total enrollment: 57; 36 males, 21 females) 
 
Early Childhood Education:  The Early Childhood Education program received three new Baby Care Parent 
Simulation dolls, each with car seat detections and temperature detectors.  This added technology will assist 
instructors as they enhance lessons is infant and toddler safety.  Several seniors and both instructors attended 
the Massachusetts Association for the Education of Young Children's Annual Conference.  Students were de-
lighted to support community service efforts, raising funds to support Lucy's Love Bus, an agency that provided 
grants for children with cancer that are not covered by health insurance. Students showered the Department of 
Children & Families with gifts and much needed supplies for foster families with emergency foster placements, 
raised funds for various causes including SkillsUSA Change for Children, adopted a Christmas Angel for a 
needy child from the Cleghorn Neighborhood Center, and contributed to the National Honor Society food and 
supplies drive.  Instructors are proud to report that all graduates are pursuing careers and higher education relat-
ed to the program - one is currently working in the field and the rest are enrolled in area colleges and universi-
ties in majors directly related to the field.  (Total enrollment: 63; 1 male, 62 females) 
===PAGE 128===
128 
Electrical:  The Electrical program continues to be one of the busiest trades in the school.  In 2015-2016, more 
than fifty work orders were completed throughout the building.  The wiring of various equipment included: a 
new media blaster in welding, a television in cosmetology, replacing the fixture in the elevator, re-wiring the 
HVAC shop, wiring the new air conditioner in the Technology Department, and adding receptacles in the sci-
ence room for new labs.  In addition to wiring equipment, Electrical students performed numerous repairs of 
lights, outlets, computers, sensors, CATV jacks, and new data drops for computers.  In addition to participat-
ing in the house building project in Ashburnham, upperclassmen students rewired a guard shack at the West-
minster Crocker Pond, and the electrical shop motor lab was remodeled to incorporate twenty-four booths.  
Fifteen students earned co-op positions, and instructors are proud to announce that 60% of the graduating 
class entered electrical apprenticeships. (Total enrollment: 83; 69 males, 14 females) 
 
Engineering Technology:  The Monty Tech Engineering Technology program continues to further enhance 
the curriculum and instruction by improving upon the four Project Lead the Way course modules, and adding 
more Computer Integrated Manufacturing content into the already rigorous vocational-technical curriculum.  
Field Programmable Gate Array mini systems were purchased and integrated into the Digital Electronics cur-
riculum. Engineering students performed well in SkillsUSA competitions, earning a number of top awards.  
At SkillsUSA at Districts, Monty Tech Engineering students received two gold, four silver, and four bronze 
medals.  At SkillsUSA States, students earned two gold and one silver medal, and finally two top students 
traveled to Louisville, KY to compete at the National level in Mechatronics.  The Freshman Exploratory Pro-
gram yielded positive results for the program, with eleven first choice freshmen.  The majority of the graduat-
ing class will continue their education in the engineering field. (Total enrollment: 48; 38 males, 10 females) 
 
Graphic Communications:  The Monty Tech Graphic Communications program is pleased to report that all 
graduating seniors were accepted to area colleges and universities.  The program benefited from twenty-four 
new iMac Computers with Adobe CC software, and our lab was renovated to accommodate this wonderful 
new technology.  Throughout the 2015-2016 school year, the shop continued to produce large quantities of 
print projects for district towns and community service organizations.  This year, over three hundred print 
projects were completed, saving local organizations approximately $145,000.  Twenty-two freshmen chose 
Graphic Communications as their top program, and two additional students joined our program, resulting in a 
freshman class of 24 students.  The future looks bright for the Monty Tech Graphic Communications pro-
gram. Three students earned co-op placements.  Our students continue to perform well in related SkillsUSA 
competitions, and earned four medals at the District event - one silver and one gold in Advertising and De-
sign, one gold in Screenprinting, and one bronze medal in Digital Cinema Production.  (Total enrollment: 90; 
37 males, 53 females) 
 
Health Occupations:  The Health Occupations program at Monty Tech continues to educate a large number of 
students, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and practice. 2015-2016 was 
an exciting year for the program, as a new partnership with Mount Wachusett Community College enabled 
senior students to participate in an Emergency Medical Technician training program, earning eight college 
credits at no cost.  The program is dedicated to providing all students with opportunities to earn industry-
recognized credentials, and as a result, students also earn the following credentials:  Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (OSHA) 10-hour certification; Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and First Aid 
Certificate through the American Heart Association; and Certified Nursing Assistant License through the 
American Red Cross.  This year, 94% of the senior students passed the National Healthcare Association 
(CCMA) exam. To support the students’ desire to give back, a “Baby Shower” benefitting Battered Women's 
Resources, Inc. was held; students participated in Pediatric Day with the Early Childhood Education program 
and also raised $700 for Special Olympics. (Total enrollment: 106; 10 males, 96 females) 
 
House Carpentry:  Most of the work done by the students and instructors in the Monty Tech House Carpentry 
program is done off-campus, completing renovations, buildings, and repair work for member communities.  
Some of the projects completed during the 2015-2016 school year include:  building a two-story colonial 
home in Ashburnham for Montachusett Enterprise Center, Inc. (MEC), building two decks for a Habitat for   
===PAGE 129===
129 
Humanity house project in Fitchburg, building a shed for the Monty Tech football team, building a storage 
shed for Thomas Prince School in Princeton, and building a hip roof for the Lunenburg Cemetery Commis-
sion mausoleum.  Lally columns were installed in two separate buildings for the Winchendon Housing Au-
thority, and three “Buddy Benches” were built and installed at the Crocker School in Fitchburg.  Tent plat-
forms for Treasure Valley Scout Reservation in Rutland, curved picnic tables and benches for the Town of 
Hubbardston, ten bluebird houses for Ashby senior citizens, a small library for Baker’s Grove Association in 
Westminster, picnic tables for Gardner Municipal Golf course, and numerous Adirondack chairs for non-
profit organizations throughout the district were also built by the talented Carpentry students at Monty Tech.  
(Total enrollment: 68; 50 males, 18 females) 
 
HVAC & Property Maintenance:  The 2015-2016 school year was the first full year for the newly enhanced 
HVAC & Property Maintenance program, which is now aligned to the state frameworks more accurately.  
The program’s new name and added curriculum is expected to present our students with additional career 
pathways and opportunities to participate in a co-operative work environment.  Employers are discovering 
that we have more to offer, and students are finding themselves with more employable skill sets. As the 
shop continues its enhancements to the HVAC portion of our program, we are now fully involved with six 
student work modules, as well as a full-size commercial air chiller unit.  New tooling to accommodate these 
changes includes the acquisition of six new lockable storage cabinet workbench workstations.  These sta-
tions are outfitted with the necessary tooling used in the refrigeration trade, complete with test meters and 
manifold gauge sets.  Nine Seniors and six Juniors participated in the very popular co-operative education 
program. (Total enrollment: 64; 56 males, 8 females) 
 
Information Technology:  As with any school, Information Technology provides key services to the educa-
tional community.  In addition to the critical in-house Help Desk services offered by the program, students 
and instructors performed in excess of 400 hours of repair, upgrading, and troubleshooting computer prob-
lems for Monty Tech community members.  Some of our students compete in the Cyber Patriot event, a na-
tional high school cyber defense competition, founded by the Air Force Association. A team of eight stu-
dents participated in the Fitchburg State University Programming Competition, placing 13th, 24th, and 25th 
out of 32 teams. Three seniors were out on Co-op, and all freshmen completed their Career Safe 10-Hour 
General Safety Certification.  One senior and one junior developed websites for non-profit organizations - 
Gardner AARP and Monty Tech’s Greenhouse.  Our students performed very well in District and State 
SkillsUSA competitions.  In the District competition, two seniors were awarded gold medals in the 3D visu-
alization & animation competition, two juniors earned the gold in the Information Technology Services 
competition, and two sophomores brought home gold and silver medals in Internetworking.  At the state 
level, two talented juniors earned Silver medals in Internetworking. (Total enrollment: 63; 58 males, 5 fe-
males) 
 
Machine Technology:   The Monty Tech Machine Technology Program continues to prepare students to 
achieve Level 1 and Level 2 MACWIC (Manufacturing Advancement Center for Workforce Innovation 
Collaborative) certification.  Through a beneficial relationship with the Massachusetts Manufacturing Exten-
sion Partnership, our instructors have access to high quality curriculum developed at WPI.  Articulation 
agreements with Mount Wachusett Community College and Quinsigamond Community College were devel-
oped, which will save students time and money as they continue their education in the machining and manu-
facturing trades.  Students completed a number of projects, including:  engraving four hundred mirror 
frames, creating chocolate molds for the Superintendent’s Dinner gifts, engraving gifts for the Class of 1996 
reunion, engraving a time capsule plaque for the Town of Ashburnham, and refurbishing the hallowed 
Thanksgiving Day trophy for Narragansett Regional High School and Murdock Middle High School. (Total 
enrollment: 58; 57 males, 1 female) 
===PAGE 130===
130 
Masonry:  Students and instructors in Monty Tech’s busy Masonry program continued to focus on a number 
of community projects including: installing brick steps and tiles for the Montachusett Enterprise Center, Inc. 
(MEC) house project in Ashburnham, installing a walkway for the Town of Hubbardston, construction of a 
mausoleum for the Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, installing a block wall for Turkey Middle School in 
Lunenburg, and repointing brick and block windows for Town of Templeton Water Department.  In Win-
chendon, our students replaced walkways at the Clark Memorial YMCA, repaired block walls for the Hous-
ing Authority, and started the Veteran’s cemetery walkway.  When the students weren’t busy in our district 
communities, they were preparing for and competing in the Massachusetts Trowel Trades Association 
(MTTA) competition, where they earned top recognitions and awards.  Instructors are proud to report that 
twelve freshmen students selected Masonry as their top choice for placement, and look forward to teaching 
and mentoring this next generation of talented Masons.  (Total enrollment: 66; 52 males, 14 females) 
 
Plumbing: The Monty Tech Plumbing program, like other trades throughout the school, is committed to com-
munity service.  As a result, students and instructors completed projects for a single-family home in Ashburn-
ham for Montachusett Enterprise Center, Inc. (MEC).  Students were introduced to high-efficiency condens-
ing and LP gas heating systems during this project, and successfully installed the gas piping for the home.  In 
addition, the students returned to the Bresnahan Scout Center in Ashburnham to finish plumbing installations.  
On campus, students fixed leaks, cleaned drains, replaced a hot water heater, worked on water coolers, and 
repaired and maintained the plumbing system. A senior student was named Vocational Tech All-Star from 
the Plumbing, Heating and Cooling Contractors Association of Massachusetts, receiving tools and a scholar-
ship for continuing his education in the plumbing licensure program.  Another senior student won the Central 
Mass Plumbing & Gas Fitting Inspectors Association scholarship.  Nine seniors and three juniors participated 
in the co-operative education program, gaining valuable work experience.  Local plumbing companies have 
hired several graduates as plumbing apprentices. (Total enrollment: 75; 72 males, 3 females) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Welding/Metal Fabrication:  The 2015-2016 school year brought the welcome addition of a third instructor to 
the Monty Tech Welding/Metal Fabrication program.  A number of projects were successfully completed on 
the Monty Tech campus, and more than eighty projects benefiting the eighteen cities and towns in the Monty 
Tech district were completed by our talented students.  Perhaps the most notable accomplishment is the in-
stallation of a twenty-one ft., multi-section statue for the Fitchburg Art Museum, which is the focal point to 
their main entrance.  Students also repaired railings for Lunenburg Middle School, and a light post, railings, 
and a mailbox for Sterling Municipal Light Department.  They also fabricated and welded a time capsule for 
Mountview Middle School in Holden, and fabricated and welded stainless steel counter tops for Gardner  
Council on Aging.  

===PAGE 131===
131 
A new curriculum was implemented, bringing lessons in pipe welding to senior students and CAD design 
with the Torch-Mate CNC plasma table to junior students.  Instructors are proud to report that six seniors 
participated in the co-operative education program, demonstrating their strong technical skills, and five of 
those students continued their work with their employers post-graduation. (Total enrollment: 62; 48 males, 
14 females) 
 
Student Support Services 
 
During the 2015-2016 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District provided 
special services to approximately three hundred and fifteen students – measuring progress of over two hun-
dred students on Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and just under one hundred students adhering to individ-
ualized Section 504 plans.  While the Student Support Services (SSS) Department encompasses special edu-
cation, the department provides support and is available to all Monty Tech students. 
  
The department includes a full-time nursing staff that administers medications, performs state-mandated 
health screening exams, and provides, when necessary, health information to the special education team for 
a student’s IEP meeting.  The department benefits from a full-time school social worker who participates in 
departmental meetings and assists students who have needs concerning finances, family issues, homeless-
ness, maternity, health issues, and proper food and clothing. The school is also fortunate to have on staff a 
full-time psychologist, whose role it is to evaluate all students referred for an initial evaluation or who re-
quire a three-year re-evaluation. In addition, we have a full-time speech language pathologist, who is availa-
ble to assist students with disabilities, assess these students and consult with teachers.  Our students also 
have access to the services of a full-time adjustment counselor and part-time school psychologist. All of 
these individuals are available for scheduled counseling sessions and mental health emergency treatment, as 
well as crisis intervention. 
  
The school’s Director of Student Support Services oversees the District’s Special Education Program, which 
is reviewed annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements. The comprehensive review and 
evaluation are done in collaboration with the Parent Advisory Council, and the results of the evaluation are 
used to improve the special education procedures and programs in place at Montachusett Regional Vocation-
al Technical School. 
  
 
Technology 
 
In 2015-2016, the Monty Tech Technology Department completed a three-year technology plan and review, 
in preparation for a whole-school Chromebook roll-out in FY17.  Training efforts continued throughout the 
year, to ensure teacher capacity in the Google for Education platform. 
 
A sophisticated Liebert air conditioning system was installed in the Main Distribution Facility (MDF) to 
maintain constant temperature and humidity supporting the growing demands of the MDF.  
 
Three Chromebook mobile labs were added to the fleet of mobile computer labs that circulate among class-
rooms providing the students with modern technology.  A self-service LobbyGuard kiosk system was imple-
mented that manages visitors to the building and increases school safety measures.  The cafeteria received an 
upgrade to their POS system, utilizing advanced technology in school nutrition and meal planning.  Candi-
dates for free and reduced lunch may now complete an application online, managing payments and fees us-
ing this new online system.  Finally, in preparation of the anticipated 2016-2017 Chromebook roll-out, the 
technology staff was reorganized. Duties were reallocated among staff and leadership, transitioning to a 
more efficient department.  New systems and policies are continually being researched to support this initia-
tive.  
===PAGE 132===
132 
 
SkillsUSA 
 
SkillsUSA is a partnership of students, teachers and industry working together to ensure America has a skilled 
workforce.  Through our association with SkillsUSA, our students develop job skills, leadership and profes-
sional skills, as well as provide community service.  The 2015-2016 school year was an extraordinary one for 
our chapter of SkillsUSA. The students met the challenges of districts, performed well at states and prepared 
for the National Conference. They also conducted several community service projects and raised money for 
various deserving charities.  Serving as co-advisors were Kelsey Moskiwitz, English Instructor, Anne Marie 
Cataldo, Early Childhood Education Instructor, and Brad Pelletier, Special Education Instructor.  Highlights of 
the year include: 
 
In September 2015, forty-one students applied and were accepted to form the Monty Tech SkillsUSA Leader-
ship Team. After two leadership training sessions, seven officers were elected. 
 
In November 2015, sixteen students, consisting of chapter officers and Leadership Team members attended the 
Annual Fall State Leadership Conference, where they participated in workshops and leadership exercises 
and performed community service at an area YMCA Day Camp.  
 
The SkillsUSA local competitions took place November 2015, and on December 18th, the students learned who 
would advance to the next round of competition. 
 
A total of forty-seven medals were captured at the District Competition held in March 2016 at Bay Path Re-
gional Vocational Technical School:  fourteen gold, sixteen silver and seventeen bronze medals.  Outstand-
ing student Grace Kirrane qualified to run for the State Executive Council, as well.  
 
Olivia Houle, a junior in the Welding program, was selected to serve on the State Advisory Committee to help 
aid in the planning of the State Conference. 
 
Thirty-four district medalists and qualifiers, nine local leadership and occupational related event contestants, 
one state officer candidate and nineteen voting delegates for a total of sixty-three students attended the 
State Leadership and Skills Conference, held in April 2016 at Blackstone Valley Vocational Technical 
School. There, seven students were awarded gold medals, and earned the right to compete at the very com-
petitive National Leadership & Skills Conference held in late June.  
 
Nine students and six instructors attended the National Leadership & Skills Conference in Louisville, KY in 
June 2016.  There, Taylor Sadowski, a graduate from the Health Occupations program, earned a silver 
medal in the Medical Assisting contest.  
 
In August 2016, Grace Kirrane attended the SkillsUSA Massachusetts state leadership training where she was 
elected to serve as the SkillsUSA Massachusetts State Vice President. 
 
 
Marine Corps JROTC 
 
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) had a sensational school 
year.  All program objectives for the 2015-2016 school year were achieved, most notable was the JROTC 
Cyber Security Team, led by First Sergeant Paul Jornet and Information Technology Instructor Richard Dun-
can, once again capturing national recognition by placing fourth overall in the Air Force Association’s Nation-
al Cyber Security Competition held in Baltimore, MD. 
===PAGE 133===
133 
The 2015-2016 Corps of Cadets completed over eighty-eight hundred hours of community service through-
out the district. The corps conducted a major canned food drive, worked side-by-side with the Marine Corps 
Reserve in a national Toys 4 Tots campaign, and spent five weekends working with the local Salvation Army 
helping to raise over $25,000 for needy families.  The cadets conducted their annual 10 mile “March-A-
Thon” to support NEADS (National Education of Assistance Dogs Services) from Princeton, MA, raising 
$20,000 for their Service Dogs for Veterans program. 
 
Seventy Monty Tech cadets attended a leadership camp at Prince William Forest, in Quantico VA.  The camp 
provided cadets with individual and team development opportunities, as well as the opportunity to visit our 
nation’s capital and many other historical sites. 
  
During the summer of 2016, our Cadet Cyber Team was again asked to support a Cyber STEM camp for the 
National Marine Corps JROTC program. The Cyber Team coordinated the 8-day camp that focused on de-
fending cyber networks from attacks. The camp also offered an introduction to robotics programming using 
the VEX Robotics System.  The camp was attended by 200 students, representing twenty-two states.   
  
 The Monty Tech JROTC program once again was awarded the designation of Marine Corps Honor School 
by the Commanding General Marine Corps Training & Education Command.  Only ten percent of Marine 
Corps JROTC programs nationwide receive this recognition.  The selection was based on several criteria, 
including cadet citizenship, the percentage of cadets involved in student government organizations, the num-
ber of cadets active in school activities and clubs, the number of community service hours for the unit as a 
whole and per cadet, the number of organizations assisted by the unit, and scholastic achievements including 
the number of academic awards and scholarships given to cadets.  The units were also measured by participa-
tion in public affairs events, drill team competitions, rifle team competitions, physical fitness team competi-
tions, and field trips.  
  
Because of this prestigious status, Monty Tech’s Senior Marine Instructor has the authority   to make nomi-
nation recommendations to the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, and the Military Academy at 
West Point under the Honor School Category. 
 
  
Women in Technology 
 
Monty Tech is one of the original members of the North Central Massachusetts Women In Technology Pro-
gram, and the 2015-2016 school year marked the school’s 14th year in this innovative school-to-business 
partnership.  The highly successful collaborative program continues to grow with membership comprised of 
students from six area high schools. Its mission is to encourage female students to explore well-paying ca-
reers in the fields of business and technology.  Participants spend two days a month, working on real-world 
work projects under the mentorship of company managers at SimplexGrinnell and Tyco Safety Products in 
Westminster, subsidiaries of Tyco International, a Fortune 500 company.  
  
The program has been so successful in its mission of providing a proven pathway to corporate America, that 
it was recently recognized as one of the region’s premier experience-based educational programs of its kind. 
Affiliation with the program, and skills acquired through participation, open doors to career opportunities not 
otherwise available to high school students. Graduates of the program are also equipped with a foundation to 
better meet the challenges of an ever-changing and demanding work force. 
  
Each year, graduates of the program go on to rewarding and well-paying careers, made possible by this 
unique experience. 
 
===PAGE 134===
134 
Student Athletics 
 
The Monty Tech athletic program continues to expand in scope and skill each year. This past year we set a 
new high for the number of student/athlete participants, with forty-five teams and more than six hundred par-
ticipants.  Seventeen teams competed in fall 2015, fourteen during the winter season, and another fifteen teams 
represented the school in spring 2016.   
 
Last fall, the Varsity Football team had their best season ever as they went 10 – 2 and won the State Vocation-
al Large School Championship.  The JV Football team had a good overall season and competed every game. 
The Freshmen Football team was 1 – 7 - 1.  The Varsity Boys Soccer team finished at 14 – 6 and qualified for 
the post-season tournament, finishing second in the Colonial Athletic League with an 8 – 3 record.  The JV 
Boys Soccer team finished their season with a record of 9 – 6.  The Varsity Golf team was 4 – 12, while the JV 
Golf team played in three tournaments, gaining valuable experience on the links.  The Varsity Field Hockey 
team was 17 - 1 - 2, qualifying for the Central Mass Tournament for the sixth consecutive year.  They beat 
Grafton, 3 – 0 but lost to Lunenburg 1- 0 in an excellently played game. They won the Colonial Athletic 
League Championship with a 10 – 0 - 2 record.  The JV Field Hockey team finished their season with a record 
of 5 – 2 – 1.  The Boys Cross Country team was 9 - 4 and finished 4th in the CAL.  The Girls Cross Country 
team was 3 – 5 overall and also finished 4th in the Colonial Athletic League.  The Varsity Girls Volleyball 
team went 7 – 13, and during their busy season held a successful Bump-Set-Spike competition, raising more 
than $3,000 to fight Breast Cancer.  The JV Girls Volleyball team was 11 – 9, while the Freshmen Girls team 
continued to improve with a 7 – 10 record.  The Varsity Girls Soccer team was 11 – 7 – 1 and qualified for the 
post-season, where they lost to Bromfield 5 – 0.  The JV Girls Soccer team finished at 7 – 4 - 2 and will send 
some fine players to the varsity next year.  
 
The Girls Varsity Basketball finished at 14 – 7 on the season, qualifying for the post-season tournament where 
they lost to an impressive Millis team.  The JV Girls were 18 – 0 and will send some fine players up to the var-
sity next year, and the Freshmen Girls finished the season with a 9 – 5 record.  The Varsity Boys Basketball 
team finished at 15 – 8 and qualified for both the State Vocational Tournament and the Districts. They lost to 
Worcester Tech in the first round of the Vocational Tournament and beat Bethany Christian in the first game 
of the Districts before losing to Hopedale in the quarterfinals.  The JV Boys Basketball team was 13 – 8, while 
the Freshmen Boys ended the season 4 – 12.  The Boys Ice Hockey team finished at 9 – 8 - 3 and qualified for 
the District Tournament, and can expect some impressive JV team members to move up and strengthen the 
program next season.   Both Boys and Girls Indoor Track & Field participated in the Dual Valley Conference 
in 2016, where the boys were 4 – 4 and the girls finished with a 1 – 7 record.   
 
In the spring, the Varsity Softball team qualified for the Central Mass Tournament for the 23rd consecutive 
year with a 13 - 7 record.  They advanced to the Semi-Finals, but fell to Uxbridge.  Coach Reid won his 600th 
game during this season, his 43rd year at Monty Tech.  Coach Reid was also selected as the Massachusetts 
Softball Coach of the Year.  The JV Softball team ended their season 5 – 10.  The Varsity Boys Volleyball 
team was 19 – 4 and 12 – 0 in the Colonial Athletic League, winning the league Championship and qualifying 
for both the State Vocational and District Tournaments.  They advanced to the State Vocational Tournament 
Finals, but fell to Greater New Bedford Regional Vocational technical High School 3 – 0.  The Varsity Base-
ball team finished at 11 – 9, winning the Colonial Athletic League Small School Championship. The JV Base-
ball team was 8 – 8 and the Freshmen Baseball team was 2 – 8.  The Boys Track & Field team was 8 - 2, fin-
ishing 3rd in the Colonial Athletic League, while the Girls Track & Field team ended the season with a record 
of 8 – 4, placing 5th in the Colonial Athletic League.  The Varsity Boys Lacrosse team played in nineteen 
games, finishing the season with a 9 – 10 record, missing the playoffs by only one game, and finishing 2nd in 
the Colonial Athletic League.  The JV Boys Lacrosse was 11 – 6 – 1, as we look to the future.  
 
Congratulations to the Outstanding Male and Female athletes for 2015-2016, Kyle Morris and Kaitlyn MacAl-
ister.  Dave Reid, Monty Tech’s long-time Athletic Director, also received the prestigious “John Young 
Award” from MIAA for his outstanding contribution and service to high school athletics throughout his forty-
three years of service. 
===PAGE 135===
135 
 
 
Monty Tech School of Continuing Education 
The Monty Tech School of Continuing Education continues to update and add 
courses that emphasize a commitment to excellence by offering affordable, 
quality, and enjoyable educational experiences.  For the fall of 2015, Monty Tech 
offered 67 classes with 667 registrations, and during the Spring 2016 semester, 
there were 66 postgraduate and continuing studies courses, with 609 registrations.  
The program, now under the leadership of Director Mary May-Lucchese, is 
looking forward to expanding the number of small business partnerships and 
increasing the number and quality of personal enrichment classes - sewing, 
knitting, acrylic painting and sculpting, to name a few.  In addition, the Director 
has almost doubled the catalog distribution from 80,000 to 155,000 copies, and modified the saturation 
market to provide the popular evening programs with additional exposure.    
 
The School of Continuing Education is also looking forward to introducing a new software program with 
robust reporting features and a very intuitive student and instructor portal.  This web-based software 
enhancement is critical to the program and very high on our list of priorities.    The new online 
registration feature will, no doubt, be received positively by students and instructors alike.   
 
Spring 2017 will see our new ESL Beginner 1 and Beginner 2 courses come to fruition.  These courses, 
coupled with our career and certificate classes, speak directly to course combinations that provide our 
community members an opportunity to grow, evolve and take their new skill set to the workforce. 
 
The success (and sustainability) of an adult education program is based on hiring quality instructors and 
meeting the needs of the community.  We are in line to accomplish both!  Our goal in the coming year 
includes increasing our adult education course offerings, with a concentration on career programs.  Stay 
tuned for Pharmacy Technician, Medical Billing and Coding, Auto Damage Appraiser and 
Apprenticeship opportunities at the Monty Tech School of Continuing Education.  
 
Practical Nursing Program 
 
The Practical Nursing Program is designed to prepare graduates to practice safely, ethically and in a 
caring manner for patients who are experiencing common variations in health status in diverse health care 
settings.  This mission which is consistent with the philosophy and goals of the Montachusett Regional 
Vocational Technical School District accomplishes the following:  
 
· Identifies a strong relationship between academic and vocational preparation 
· Stresses the importance of developing critical thinking skills to function safely, effectively, and 
productively in an ever-changing technical and diverse society 
· Supports the maintenance of a positive and caring learning and practice environment 
The above mission and philosophy were met by the Practical Nursing program by several different 
methods.   
 
On June 23, 2016, a graduating class of 32 students completed the Practical Nursing Program and entered 
the nursing profession.  The class achieved an initial NCLEX pass rate of 91%, with 29 of the 32 
graduates achieving 100% pass rate for the NCLEX-PN exam. Three graduates are waiting to sit their 
NCLEX-PN exam.  94% of the 2016 graduates are currently employed in the health care profession 
throughout Massachusetts, and many are working within the eighteen cities and towns of the Monty Tech 
school district as LPNs in various health care settings, ranging from long term care, sub-acute care to 
mental health facilities.  

===PAGE 136===
136 
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program continues to develop the “LPN to BSN Bridge” relationship 
with Fitchburg State University.  Several 2016 graduates are pursuing seats in the LPN to BSN program at 
FSU and will be continuing their education to the Bachelors in Nursing. Many present class applicants cited 
as their attraction to Monty Tech as the opportunity to complete a ten-month accelerated program and then 
bridge to Fitchburg State University.   
 
Monty Tech Practical Nursing students are now completing patient scenarios in the Sim Lab on a weekly 
basis in Term 2 and Term 3. The Faculty Sim team has implemented National League of Nursing (NLN) 
patient scenarios consistent with our curriculum frameworks and have also utilized the Sim lab setting to 
instruct students in developing nursing skills that they may not be experiencing in the clinical setting.  In-
structors have successfully developed a pediatric patient scenario that is consistent with present student 
learning outcomes and the clinical pediatric setting. 
 
The Practical Nursing Program Faculty implemented new student learning outcomes across the curriculum 
adopted from the Massachusetts Board of Higher Education Nurse of the Future Initiative LPN Competen-
cies. The competencies have been recognized nationally as being consistent with current LPN practice. The 
Faculty will assess the revised student learning outcomes and our content to assure consistency with the new 
NCLEX-PN Detailed Test Plan that will be released in March 2017.    
 
The class of 2016 performed a community service project adopting a Monty Tech family in need referred by 
Student Support Services. The nursing students purchased holiday gifts and food for the family, making sure 
they were consistent with the family’s requests or needs.  
 
With an eye toward the program’s future, forty-seven applicants were accepted to the Class of 2017, and 
forty-five students enrolled and will continue in the tradition of high-quality practical nursing preparation. 
 
Looking Ahead 
 
While the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District educational community is certainly 
proud of the achievements of our talented students, faculty, and staff, we continue to have an eye toward the 
future, always committed to improving our vocational and academic programming, strengthening key part-
nerships, and maintaining facilities that contribute to student success and achievement.  As we look ahead, 
there are a number of programs and initiatives that we expect will have a positive impact on our school and 
students for years to come. 
 
Expand partnerships with area businesses:  The Machine Technology program at Monty Tech has a long 
history of successfully placing students in machine and manufacturing shops in the area.  Program instruc-
tors work closely with a nineteen-member program advisory committee to ensure instruction and training 
equipment aligns with current industry standards, and welcome their guidance in this regard.  With an eye 
toward expanding opportunities for students interested in pursuing occupations in this high-demand indus-
try, program partner L. S. Starrett Company has suggested adding lessons in quality control and metrology 
to the existing curriculum.  Program instructors anticipate reconfiguring the instructional space to bring in 
updated equipment, and will also add two industry-recognized certification exams to the curriculum.  By 
standardizing metrology instruction and providing students with opportunities to earn additional credentials, 
program instructors are ensuring Monty Tech Machine Technology students are poised for a successful 
school-to-work transition upon graduation.  
 
Expand partnerships with area colleges and universities:  Monty Tech students currently benefit from a 
number of articulation and dual enrollment agreements with surrounding post-secondary partners.  
===PAGE 137===
137 
In the coming years, we hope to expand those opportunities in two vocational -technical areas:  Information 
Technology and Early Childhood Education.  By the end of 2016 -2017, Monty Tech Information Technolo-
gy instructors will submit an articulation request to MWCC officials, to determine how our curriculum may 
align with MWCC’s Computer Information Systems Transfer Track (CIT) program. Additionally, instructors 
in Monty Tech’s Early Childhood Education program will continue discussions with Fitchburg State Univer-
sity officials, exploring the potential of embedding one college -level course into the senior year curriculum.  
School officials continue to discuss the merits of aligning curriculum, securing appropriate adjunct professor 
credentials, and costs associated with tuition and fees for the agreed upon course.   
 
Expand Access to Instructional Technology:  A Monty Tech education is effective because efforts are made 
to continually assess our programming, instructional equipment, and our educational resources.  Through 
this assessment, it has become clear that while so many students have access to technology away from the 
school, many do not. It is important, then, to arm every student with the tools necessary to succeed not only 
in the workplace, but in the classroom, as well.  The district is pleased to announce a whole-school technolo-
gy initiative, culminating in a September 2016 Chromebook distribution to each of our 1,435 students.  It is 
our hope that these devices will support learning, increase and streamline communication with teachers, and 
promote collaboration among student peers. 
 
Expand vocational-technical educational opportunities :  As you know, Montachusett Regional Vocational 
Technical School is home to twenty vocational-technical programs, and currently serves over 1,400 students 
from eighteen cities and towns in North Central Massachusetts.  We are so proud of our students and accom-
plishments, and every year we strive to provide only the best educational programs, both academic and voca-
tional, to each and every student.  As we review our student demographic, the regional workforce data, and 
feedback we have received from students interested in attending our school, we consider the benefits of add-
ing new vocational programs.  We are pleased to announce that Monty Tech is bringing our 21 st program to 
the school – Animal/Veterinary Science.  The new program, open to students Fall 2017, will respond to 
much-needed workforce training and community services, and will effectively prepare students to enter both 
college and career pathways upon graduation. 
 
 

===PAGE 138===
138 
 
The Monty Tech School Committee 
 
The Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee is comprised of twenty -two 
dedicated individuals, whose expertise proves invaluable in advising the district’s operations, policies, and 
procedures.  
 
Our students continue to benefit  from the broad scope of their experiences and varying perspectives, and we 
are thankful to the following members of the 2015-2016 School Committee for their outstanding service.   
 
Barbara Reynolds, Lunenburg 
Chair 
 
Brian J. Walker, Fitchburg 
Vice Chair 
 
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham 
Peter Capone, Ashby 
Toni L. Phillips, Athol 
Whitney Marshall, Barre 
Claudia Holbert, Fitchburg 
Brian J. Walker, Fitchburg 
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg 
Leroy Clark/ Melanie Weeks, Fitchburg 
Helen Lepkowski/ James S. Boone, Gardner 
Eric D. Commodore, Gardner 
TBD, Harvard 
James Cournoyer, Holden 
Kathleen Airoldi, Hubbardston 
Edward Simms, Petersham 
Eric Olson, Phillipston 
John P. Mollica, Princeton 
Mary C. Barclay, Royalston 
Dr. Kenneth I.H. Williams, Sterling 
James M. Gilbert, Templeton 
Ross Barber, Westminster 
Burton E. Gould, Jr., Winchendon 
 
Terri Hillman, Gardner 
Secretary 
 
Norman J. LeBlanc 
District Treasurer 
 
Respectfully Submitted By: 
Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D. 
Superintendent-Director 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School 
December 14, 2016
 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School 
1050 Westminster Street 
Fitchburg, MA  01420 
(978) 345-9200 
www.montytech.net 
 
===PAGE 139===
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN CLERK 
===PAGE 140===
140 
 
 
VITAL RECORDS REPORT 
 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND U.S. DE-
PARTMENT OF STATE AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF 
TOWN, NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUM-
BER OF OCCURANCES OF EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE AND DEATH ARE TOTALLED 
FOR THE YEAR. 
 
DURING 2016 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTHS- 107  DEATHS- 79  MARRIAGES- 42 
===PAGE 141===
141 
                                                  TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS 
 
                                                          Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
The Annual Town Meeting was called to order at 9:05 A.M. in the Lunenburg High School Au-
ditorium (it was noted that this is the last town meeting to be held in the Cushing Auditorium 
as the new Middle/High School will be completed soon) a quorum was declared present and the 
warrant noted as being properly served. We pledged allegiance, the Moderator went over the 
rules of conduct and also noted a conflict with Article 45 relative to the Water District (he is 
Moderator for the District) and would appoint Tom Bodkin to serve as Moderator for that ar-
ticle. 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, 
§53E½, the Ambulance Billing Revolving Fund.  The purpose of this fund will be to cover the cost 
associated with compensating third party advanced life support companies and third party billing 
companies that contract and supply services to the Town.  Five percent (5%) of the total revenue gen-
erated by ambulance services rendered and 100% of the revenue generated by Advanced Life Sup-
port services rendered shall be deposited into said revolving fund.  The proceeds of said Revolving 
Fund shall be expended by the Fire Department without further appropriation for the sole purpose of 
reimbursing the aforementioned companies for services rendered to the Town; expenditures from the 
revolving fund may not exceed $65,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of 
Selectmen and Finance Committee or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Fire 
Chief)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval. VOT-
ED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, 
§53E½, the Timber Rights Revolving Fund, such fund to be redited with the proceeds of sale by the 
Conservation Commission of the rights to harvest timber; funds in the account to be expended for the 
acquisition of land for conservation purposes and associated costs of such acquisitions, including but 
not limited to appraisals and payment of accrued taxes; such funds may also be expended for im-
provements on land already under the custody and control of the Conservation Commission; the Con-
servation Commission may expend such funds without further appropriation; expenditures from the 
revolving fund may not exceed $10,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of 
Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Conser-
vation Commission)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends 
approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, 
§53E½, the Custodial Special Detail Revolving Fund, for the purpose of paying special detail salaries 
for outside functions.  Charges and money received from outside organizations in connection with 
this program are to be deposited in said revolving fund and expended by the Lunenburg School Com-
mittee without further appropriation for the sole purpose of paying personnel for hours worked.  Said 
revolving account expenditures shall not exceed $13,000 per year without the approval of the Board 
of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by School 
Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval. 
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
===PAGE 142===
142 
                                                           
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, 
§53E½, the Green Thumb Revolving Fund, to support the Green Thumb Program at Lunenburg 
High School.  Fees, charges, and money received from sales of items in connection with this pro-
gram are to be deposited in this Revolving Fund Account and expended for the operation of this pro-
gram by the Lunenburg School Committee without further appropriation; said revolving account ex-
penditures shall not exceed $5,000 per year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Fi-
nance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by School Committee) 
Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval.  VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½, 
the Library Revolving Fund, to receive funds from library fines and penalties, said funds to be ex-
pended by the Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library for the purchase of library and information ma-
terials and document information and electronic data delivery.  Expenditures from the revolving 
fund may not exceed $12,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen 
and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Library Director) 
Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval. VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, 
§53E½, the Council on Aging/Montachusett Area Regional Transit (MART) Elderly Transportation 
Revolving Fund; the operation of said account shall be conducted by the Council on Aging, and the 
Senior Center Director; funds in this account shall be spent on the dispatch, operation, maintenance 
and record keeping of the MART vehicles for the elderly transportation program; all receipts result-
ing from MART reimbursements shall be credited to this account; said revolving account expendi-
tures shall not exceed $45,000 per year without the prior approval of the Board of Selectmen and the 
Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Council on Aging) 
Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval.  VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the 
Town Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of 
Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee reports no direct finan-
cial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY (to accept and heard report about the closing of the high 
school) 
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recom-
mendations at town meeting. VOTED TO PASS OVER. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 143===
143 
 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds, all 
sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY’2016 Budget, under Arti-
cle 15 of the May 2, 2015 Town Meeting; or take any other action thereto.  (Submitted by Town 
Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendations at town meeting. 
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Line 13/Reserve Fund, the sum of $75,000.00; and 
from Line 14/Unemployment Expense, the sum of $10,000.00; and to transfer to Line 13A/Salary 
Reserve Fund, the sum of $15,000.00, and to Line 30/Legal Expenses, the sum of $60,000.00; and 
to Line 49/Wiring Inspector, the sum of $10,000.00; to amend the amounts voted under Article 15 
of the May 2, 2015 Annual Town Meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, the sum of Ten Thou-
sand Dollars ($10,000.00) to fund a market analysis of municipal buildings (Brooks House, Ritter 
Memorial, Town Hall & Old Primary); or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Building Reuse Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recom-
mends approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Article 15 of the 5/2/15 Annual Town 
Meeting – Line 13/Reserve Fund, the sum of $10,000.00; to fund a market analysis of municipal 
buildings (Brooks House, Ritter Memorial, Town Hall and Old Primary buildings) in FY16.   
 
ARTICLE 11 . To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, $3,611.32 to fund the first year  of the FY15, FY16 & FY17 Lunenburg Professional Fire-
fighters PFFM, Local 4358A Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2017; 
or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board of Selectmen recommends 
approval. Finance Committee recommends approval.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from 
Article 15 of the 5/2/15 Annual Town Meeting – Line 13A/Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of 
$3,611.32; to fund the first year of the FY15 -FY17 Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM, Lo-
cal 4358A Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2017. 
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of the FY16, FY17 & FY18 Public Employees Local 
Union 39 of the Laborers’ International Union of North America Collective Bargaining Agreement 
dated July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2018; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) 
Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendations at town meeting. Article 12 
was PASSED OVER. 
 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of the FY17, FY18 & FY19 Police Officers Collective 
Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2019 with IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO; or take 
any other action thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Commit-
tee to make recommendations at town meeting. Article 13 was PASSED OVER. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 144===
144 
 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds 
a sum of money for the FY 2017 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Re-
port, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Capital Planning Committee) Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval. VOTED UNANI-
MOUSLY to raise and appropriate the sum of $349,023.05 and to transfer the sum of $1,369.59 
from Article 16 of the May 5, 2012 Annual Town Meeting; and $2,364.70 from Article 14 of the 
May 4, 2013 Annual Town Meeting; and $12,817.66 from Article 14 of the May 3, 2014 Annual 
Town Meeting; and $3,900.00 from Article 14 of the May 2, 2015 Annual Town Meeting; and 
transfer from Free Cash the sum of $250,000.00 for a total appropriation of $619,475.00 to fund the 
FY17 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Report. 
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY2017 and to fix the 
salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the 
budget of the Town Manager; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board 
of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval of $33,802,328. VOTED UNANI-
MOUSLY to raise and appropriate $32,784,764.24, transfer $10,868.00 from Septic Receipts Re-
served for Appropriation, transfer $912,291.76 from the Sewer Enterprise Fund, transfer $31,623.00 
from the Student Transportation Offset Receipt Fund, and transfer $62,781.00 from Water Better-
ment Revenue to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2017 of 
$33,802,328.00, and to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any 
other items included in the budget of the Town Manager as follows: 
 
LINE# ACCOUNT FY 17 
 Maturing Debt & Interest  
1 Principal-Loans  $            3,097,672.00  
2 Interest –Loans  $            1,742,303.00  
3 Interest-Temporary Loans     $                             - 
3A Administrative Fees-
Loans 
    $                  16,856.00 
3B Bond Issuance Costs     $                          - 
 Total Maturing Debt  $            4,856,831.00  
 Unclassified     
4 Liability Insurance $               219,061.00 
5 Workers Compensation $                 64,984.00 
6 Group Health Insurance $            1,907,185.00 
 
===PAGE 145===
145 
 
7 Group Life Insurance $                 22,635.00 
8 Physicals $                   3,500.00 
9 Print Town Reports $                 12,000.00 
10 MRPC Assess $                   3,278.00 
11 Historical Commission $                   3,000.00 
12 Band Concerts $                   4,200.00 
13 Reserve Fund $                 50,000.00 
13A Salary Reserve Fund $                 93,996.00 
14 Unemployment Expense $                 10,000.00 
14A Unemployment Exp.-Stab 
Fund 
$                              - 
15 Medicare Town's Share $               221,902.00 
 Total Gen Govt. 
Unclassified 
$            2,615,696.00 
 General Government  
16 Finance Comm. Expense $                      800.00 
17 Annual Town Audit $                 46,500.00 
18 Charter Review Comm. $                           - 
19 Selectmen's Admin $                 46,650.00 
20 Selectmen Salaries $                      500.00 
21 Town Manager Salary $               127,500.00 
22 Town Manager Expense $                   5,500.00 
23 Town Accountant $               171,709.00 
24 Treasurer's 
Administration 
$                 65,729.00 
25 Banking Charges $                   1,000.00 
26 Tax Collector's Admin $                 81,441.00 
27 Assessor's Salaries $                             - 
28 Assessor's $               158,298.00 
===PAGE 146===
146 
 
29 Technology Director $               168,169.00 
30 Legal Expenses $               110,000.00 
31 Town Clerk Salary $                 47,511.00 
32 Town Clerk's Admin $                 33,049.00 
33 Elections $                 16,165.00 
34 Registration & Census $                 13,046.00 
35 Planning Board $               140,885.00 
36 Zoning Board of Appeals $                   3,975.00 
37 Conservation 
Commission 
$                 49,300.00 
 Total General Govt. $           1,287,727.00 
 Central Purchasing  
38 Central Purchasing $                 55,303.00 
 Total Central Purchasing $                 55,303.00 
 Protection  
39 Police Department $            1,352,893.00 
40 Police Lock Up $                 78,600.00 
41 Injury Leave $                   5,513.00 
42 Police/Fire Med 
Expenses 
$                   5,000.00 
 Subtotal Police $           1,442,006.00 
43 Fire Department $               728,270.00 
43A Capital – Fire Dept. $                 20,000.00 
44 Fire Hydrant Expense $                 15,000.00 
45 Radio Equipment Mtc. $                 10,000.00 
 Subtotal Fire Dept. $               773,270.00 
46 Radio Watch $              273,875.00 
 
===PAGE 147===
147 
 
 Subtotal Radio Watch $              273,875.00 
47 Emergency 
Management 
$                  6,500.00 
48 Sealer of Weights & 
Measures 
$                  4,300.00 
49 Wiring Inspector $                20,000.00 
50 Building Inspector $               126,060.00 
51 Municipal Hearing 
Officer 
$                             - 
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector $                 15,000.00 
53 Animal Control $                 40,000.00 
 Subtotal Other 
Protection 
$               211,860.00 
 Total Protection $            2,701,011.00 
 Health & Sanitation  
54 General Health Expense $                 33,883.00 
55 Nashoba Board of Health $                 23,532.00 
56 Nashoba Nursing $                 10,739.00 
57 Mental Health $                            - 
58 Animal Inspector Salary $                   1,000.00 
 Total Health & Sanitation $                 69,154.00 
 Department  Public  
Works 
 
59 Highway Labor $               439,454.00 
60 Highway OT $                   6,500.00 
61 General Hwy Mtc. $               412,500.00 
61A Capital - General Highway $                             - 
62 Town Highway Garage $                    1,040.00 
63 Traffic Signs & Devices $                 28,253.00 
 
===PAGE 148===
148 
 
64 Vehicle Mtc - Highway $                 72,550.00 
65 Vehicle Mtc. – Police $                   74,675.00 
66 Vehicle Mtc. – Fire $                   45,194.00 
67 Park Department $                   71,348.00 
68 Cemetery Department $                   46,775.00 
69 Tree Removal $                  24,641.00 
70 Snow Removal Expense $                275,000.00 
 Total DPW $              1,497,930.00 
 Facilities and Buildings  
71 Facilities and Grounds $                 365,307.00 
72 Public Buildings $                 241,910.00 
72A Additional Utilities, 
Library 
$                                - 
 Total Facilities & 
Buildings 
$                 607,217.00 
 Solid Waste/Recycling  
73 Recycling Program $                 174,150.00 
   
 Total Solid Waste/Recycle $                 174,150.00 
 Public Assistance  
74 Council on Aging $                111,945.00 
 Subtotal C.O.A. $                111,945.00 
75 Veterans’ Benefits $                  99,275.00 
76 Veteran's Administration $                    5,250.00 
77 Registrar of Vets' Graves $                       500.00 
78 Memorial Day $                       750.00 
 Subtotal Veterans $                105,775.00 
 Total Assistance $                217,720.00 
 
===PAGE 149===
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in Article XV, 
Salary Administration Plan of General Bylaws with the below FY’2017 Salary Schedule which 
authorizes a cost of living increase of 2% per year for Fiscal Year 2017, for permanent employees 
not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract and to authorize 2% 
COLA increases for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by 
the Personnel Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recom-
mends approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to replace the current Salary Schedule in Article XV, 
Salary Administration Plan of the General Bylaws, with the salary schedule printed in the Warrant 
which authorizes a cost of living increase of 2% for Fiscal Year 2017, for permanent employees 
not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract and to authorize a 2% 
COLA for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019.  [Submitted by the Personnel Committee] 
 Schools  
79 School Department $          18,330,326.00 
79A UnemSch-Stab/Free Cash $                             - 
79B Curriculum Update $                119,257.00 
80 Monty Tech Assessment $               899,267.00 
81 Vehicle Mtc - School $                             - 
 Total Schools $            19,348,850.00 
 Library  
82 Lunenburg Public Library $                 370,739.00 
 Total  Public Library $                370,739.00 
 Total Omnibus $         33,802,328.00 
 
===PAGE 150===
150 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate to or from the Stabilization Fund; or take 
any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Commit-
tee recommend approval of $99,851. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to raise and appropriate the sum of 
$99,851.00 to be transferred to the Stabilization Fund.   
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, 
a sum of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Fund for FY2017; or take any action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will 
make recommendation at town meeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Solid 
Waste Disposal Enterprise Revenues the sum of $275,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal  
Program.  
 
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds 
a sum of money to operate the Lunenburg Water Department/Water Enterprise Fund for FY2017; or 
take any other action thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee recommend approval of $25,000.VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Water 
Enterprise Revenues the sum of $25,000 to operate the Water Department. 
 

===PAGE 151===
151 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 20. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY2017;or take any action rela-
tive thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. 
Finance Committee recommends approval of $736,242.00 VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appro-
priate from Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of $659,044.28 and appropriate from Sewer Enter-
prise retained earnings the sum of $77,197.72, for a total appropriation of $736,242.00 to operate 
the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY17; and further that $912,291.76 be included in appropriations 
from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the Sewer Enterprise Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 21. To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to General Laws, Ch. 40, §5B, to create an 
Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund and further to raise and appropriate from available funds the 
sum of $14,520.00 into the Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make 
recommendation at town meeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to create an Inflow/Infiltration Sta-
bilization Fund and further to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of 
$14,520 into the Inflow/ Infiltration Stabilization Fund.  
 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, a sum of money into 
the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
Sewer Commissioners) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommendation at 
town meeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings 
the sum of $9,667.90 into the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund.     
 
ARTICLE 23. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate $48,402.09, the premium paid to the 
Town upon the sale of bonds or notes issued for the construction of a new Middle School/High 
School, which are the subject of a Proposition 2 ½ debt exclusion, to pay the costs of the project 
being financed by such bonds or notes and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed for 
such project, but not yet issued by the Town, by the same amount, or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance 
Committee recommends approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate the sum of 
$48,402.09, the premium paid to the Town upon the sale of bonds or notes issued for the construc-
tion of a new Middle School/ High School, which are the subject of a Proposition 2 ½ debt exclu-
sion, to pay the costs of the project being financed by such bonds or notes and to reduce the 
amount authorized to be borrowed for such project, but not yet issued by the Town, by the same 
amount. 
ARTICLE 24. To see if the Town will vote to accept MGL Chapter 44, §53F ¾, which establishes 
a special revenue fund known as the Public Educational Governmental (PEG) Access and Cable-
Related Fund, to reserve cable franchise fees and other cable-related revenues for appropriation to 
support PEG access services and oversight and renewal of the cable franchise agreement, the fund 
to begin operation for Fiscal Year 2017,which begins July 1, 2016; and further to transfer the bal-
ance in the existing PEG Access fund as of June 30, 2016 to this newly established fund; or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen recom-
mends approval. Finance Committee recommends approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to accept 
MGL Chapter 44, Section 53F ¾, which establishes a special revenue fund known as the  
===PAGE 152===
152 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
Public Educational Governmental (PEG) Access and Cable-Related Fund, to reserve cable fran-
chise fees and other cable-related revenues for appropriation to support PEG access services and 
oversight and renewal of the cable franchise agreement, the fund to begin operation for Fiscal Year 
2017, which begins July 1, 2016, and further to transfer the balance in the existing PEG Access 
Fund as of June 30, 2016 to this newly established fund. 
 
ARTICLE 25. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate from Public Educational Governmental 
(PEG) Access and Cable Related Fund Revenues, the sum of $74,030.76 to fund the FY’17 PEG 
Access Committee operating budget; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town 
Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee recommends approv-
al. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from the Public Educational Governmental (PEG) 
Access and Cable Related Fund Revenues, the sum of $74,030.76 to fund the FY2017 PEG Access 
Committee Operating Budget. 
 
ARTICLE 26.  To see if the Town will appropriate $4,000,000, or any other sum to pay costs of 
repairing local roads in accordance with the Town’s Pavement Management Plan dated March 
2016, as the same may be amended or updated, including the payment of all costs incidental and 
related thereto; to determine whether this amount shall be raised by taxation, transfer from availa-
ble funds, borrowing or otherwise; and to determine whether any borrowing that may be author-
ized under this article shall be contingent on a vote of the Town in favor of excluding the amounts 
required to pay for such borrowing from the property tax limitation provisions of Chapter 59, §21C 
of the General Laws (Proposition 2 ½); or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 4 – 1.  Finance Committee will 
make recommendation at town meeting. VOTED $4,000,000 to pay costs of repairing local roads 
in accordance with the Town’s Pavement Management Plan dated March 2016, as the same may 
be amended or updated, including the payment of all costs incidental and related thereto; and that 
to meet this appropriation, the Treasurer, with the approval of the Selectmen, is authorized to bor-
row said amount under and pursuant to Chapter 44, Sections 7(5) or 7(6) of the General Laws, or 
pursuant to any other enabling authority and to issue bonds or notes of the Town therefor; and that 
the Board of Selectmen is authorized to take any other action necessary to carry out this project; 
provided, however, that no amounts shall be borrowed or expended hereunder unless the Town 
shall have voted to exclude the amounts necessary to repay any such borrowing from the property 
tax limitation provisions of Chapter 59, Section 21C of the General Laws (Proposition 2 ½).    
 
ARTICLE 27. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, management and control 
of the land described herein from the School Committee for school purposes, to the School Com-
mittee for school purposes and the Parks Commission (or Board of Selectmen) for the purpose dis-
position by leasing to telecommunications companies for the location of telecommunications facil-
ities, and further to authorize the Parks Commission (or Board of Selectmen) to enter into such a 
lease or leases for said purposes, for a portion of the land located at Lunenburg High School, 1079 
Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, as shown on the Tax Map of the Town of Lunenburg as Parcel 
Id. No. 060/055 and being further described in the following deeds: (i) Deed Book 603, Page 391; 
(ii) Deed Book 770, Page 370, and (iii) Deed Book 1586, Page 79, each as recorded in the Worces-
ter Registry of Deeds, said portion of land identified on the sketch plan entitled “Conceptual Site 
Plan, prepared by Dewberry Engineers, Inc.” as on file in the office of the Town Clerk, upon  such 
terms and conditions, and for a period in excess of  three years, as the Park Commission shall  
determine to be in the best interest of the Town; and further to authorize the grant of easements  
===PAGE 153===
153 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
upon said land as may be necessary for utility services in support of such use; and to authorize the 
Parks Commission to execute such agreements and take such actions as deemed necessary to effec-
tuate the purposes of this article: or take any other action relative thereto. Board of Selectmen and 
Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting. VOTED 2/3RDS DECLARED  
to transfer the care, custody, management and control of the land described herein from the School 
Committee for school purposes, to the School Committee for school purposes and the Board of Se-
lectmen for the purpose of disposition by leasing to telecommunications companies for the location 
of telecommunications facilities, and further to authorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into such 
a lease or leases for said purposes, for a portion of the land located at Lunenburg High School, 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, as shown on the Tax Map of the Town of Lunenburg as 
Parcel ID No. 060/055 and being further described in the following deeds:  (i) Deed Book 603, 
Page 391; (ii) Deed Book 770, Page 370 and (iii) Deed Book 1586, Page 79, each as recorded in 
the Worcester Registry of Deeds, said portion of land identified on the sketch plan entitled 
“Conceptual Site Plan, as prepared by Dewberry Engineers, Inc.” as on file in the Office of the 
Town Clerk, upon such terms and conditions, and for a period in excess of three years, as the Board 
of Selectmen shall determine to be in the best interest of the Town; and further to authorize the 
grant of easements upon said land as may be necessary for utility services in support of such use; 
and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to execute such agreements and take such actions as 
deemed necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article.    
 
ARTICLE 28.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate $600,000, or any other sum, to pay 
costs of replacing the artificial turf field and track at the school campus, including the payment of 
all costs incidental and related thereto; and to determine whether this amount shall be raised by tax-
ation, transfer from available funds, borrowing or otherwise; or take any other action thereto 
(Submitted by Board of Selectmen)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recom-
mendation at town meeting. VOTED 2/3RDS DECLARED to appropriate $770,000 to pay costs 
of replacing the artificial turf field and track at the school campus, including the payment of all 
costs incidental and related thereto; and that to meet this appropriation, the Treasurer, with the ap-
proval of the Selectmen, is authorized to borrow said amount under and pursuant to Chapter 44, 
Section 7(25) of the General Laws, or pursuant to any other enabling authority, and to issue bonds 
or notes of the Town therefor; and that the Board of Selectmen is authorized to take any other ac-
tion necessary to carry out this project. 
 
ARTICLE 29. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to acquire by gift, 
purchase, and/or eminent domain, the fee to and/or permanent and/or temporary easements in por-
tions of parcels of land located on Summer Street and North Street, and other abutting ways, for 
public way purposes, including without limitation, for the construction, alteration, installation, 
maintenance, improvement, repair, replacement and/or relocation of rights of way, sidewalks, 
drainage, utilities, slope, grading, rounding, construction and other easements, to enable the Town 
to undertake the 606124 Fitchburg/Lunenburg/Leominster-Summer Street/North Street Project, 
which parcels are listed on a sheet entitled “Preliminary Right of Way Parcel Summary Sheet” and 
approximately shown on plans entitled “Preliminary Right of Way Property Plan,“ on file with the 
Town Clerk , as the same may be amended from time to time, and land within 100 feet of said par-
cels; and further to raise and appropriate, transfer from available funds, and/or borrow a sum of 
money to fund the foregoing project and any and all costs related thereto, including, without  
===PAGE 154===
154 
 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
limitation, the cost of any land/easement acquisitions; and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to 
enter into all agreements and take any actions necessary or appropriate to carry out the foregoing 
transactions; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval.  Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting. 
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to authorize the Board of Selectmen to acquire by gift, purchase and/ 
or eminent domain, the fee to and/ or permanent and/ or temporary easements in portions of parcels 
of land located on Summer Street and North Street and other abutting ways, for public way purpos-
es, including without limitation, for the construction, alteration, installation, maintenance, improve-
ment, repair, replacement and/ or relocation of rights of way, sidewalks, drainage, utilities, slope, 
grading, rounding, construction and other easements, to enable the Town to undertake the 606124 
Fitchburg/ Lunenburg/ Leominster- Summer Street/ North Street Project, which parcels are listed on 
a sheet entitled “Preliminary Right of Way Parcel Summary Sheet” and approximately shown on 
plans entitled “Preliminary Right of Way Property Plan,” on file with the Town Clerk, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and land within 100 feet of said parcels; and to authorize the 
Board of Selectmen to enter into all agreements and take any actions necessary or appropriate to car-
ry out the foregoing transactions. 
 
ARTICLE 30. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of a portion of 
the land with the building thereon, known as the Brooks House, located at 1079 Massachusetts Ave-
nue, shown on Assessor’s Map 60, Parcel  55, and shown on a plan of land entitled “T.C. Passios & 
Brooks House Conceptual Site Plan” on file with the Town Clerk, from the School Committee held 
for school purposes to the Board of Selectmen for general municipal purposes and for the purpose of 
conveyance, and authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey said property on such terms and condi-
tions, and for such consideration as the Board of Selectmen deems appropriate; or take any other 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by School Committee)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Com-
mittee to make recommendation at town meeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer the care, 
custody and control of a portion of the land with the building thereon, known as the Brooks House, 
located at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor’s Map 60, Parcel 55 and shown on a 
plan of land entitled “T.C. Passios & Brooks House Conceptual Site Plan” on file with the Town 
Clerk, from the School Committee held for school purposes to the Board of Selectmen for general 
municipal purposes and for the purpose of conveyance, and authorize the Board of Selectmen to 
convey said property on such terms and conditions, and for such consideration as the Board of Se-
lectmen deems appropriate. 
 
ARTICLE 31. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of a portion of 
the land with the building thereon, known as Thomas C. Passios Elementary School, located at 1079 
Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor’s Map 60, Parcel 55 and shown on a plan of land enti-
tled “T.C. Passios & Brooks House Conceptual Site Plan” on file with the Town Clerk, from the 
School Committee held for school purposes to the Board of Selectmen for general municipal pur-
poses, including but not limited to the development of a town hall, or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by School Committee)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make 
recommendation at town meeting. VOTED 2/3RDS DECLARED to transfer the care, custody and 
control of a portion of the land with the building thereon, known as the Thomas C. Passios Elemen-
tary School, located at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on  Assessor’s Map 60, Parcel 55  and 
Shown on a plan of land entitled “T.C. Passios and Brooks House  Conceptual Site Plan,”  
===PAGE 155===
155 
  
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
on file with the Town Clerk, from the School Committee held for school purposes to the Board of Se-
lectmen for general municipal purposes, including but not limited to the development of a town hall. 
 
ARTICLE 32.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey to the 
owners of the property located at 1134 Northfield Road, shown on Assessors’ Map 36, Parcel 26, and 
their successors, a non-exclusive, perpetual easement along and upon those portions of the Town-
owned property at 1134 Northfield Road, Lunenburg, approximately 6 feet wide by 225 feet long, 
along Northfield Road, for the purpose of installing and maintaining a septic system upon the portion 
of said property, on such terms and conditions which the Board of Selectmen may determine, or take 
any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends ap-
proval. Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to author-
ize the Board of Selectmen to convey to the owners of the property located at 1134 Northfield Road, 
shown on Assessors’ Map 36, Parcel 26, and their successors, a non-exclusive, perpetual easement 
along and upon those portions of the Town-owned property at 1134 Northfield Road, Lunenburg, ap-
proximately 6 feet wide by 225 feet long, along Northfield Road, for the purpose of installing and 
maintaining a septic system upon the portion of said property, on such terms and conditions which the 
Board of Selectmen may determine; and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into all agree-
ments and to take any actions necessary or appropriate to carry out the foregoing transaction. 
 
ARTICLE 33.  To see if the Town will vote to approve a zoning change from “Recreational” to 
“Residence A,” for land described as Parcel 12 on Assessor’s Map 37, also known as 1026 Northfield 
Road on Assessor’s Map 37; or take any other action relative thereto.   (Citizen Petition Article) Board 
of Selectmen recommends approval.  Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to approve a zoning change from “Recreational” to “Residence A,” for land de-
scribed as Parcel 12 on Assessor’s Map 37, also known as 1026 Northfield Road.    
 
ARTICLE 34. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Town to negotiate a long term lease to 
locate Doppler radar tower; or take any other action thereto. Board of Selectmen and Finance Commit-
tee will make recommendation at town meeting.   Article 34 was PASSED OVER 
 
ARTICLE 35.  To see if the Town will vote to accept the revisions that amend the Comprehensive 
Wastewater Master Plan (CWMP) Phase IV Report, such revisions currently on file in the offices of 
the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Sewer Commission; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommen-
dation at town meeting.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to accept the revisions that amend the Compre-
hensive Wastewater Master Plan (CWMP) Phase IV Report, such revisions currently on file in the Of-
fices of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen and Sewer Commission.   
 
ARTICLE 36. To see if the Town will vote to amend Article XXIV of the Town Bylaws, entitled 
“Sewer Bylaw,” by adding the section 9.0 “Regulation Changes” , such revisions currently on file in 
the offices of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen and Sewer Commission; or take any other action 
relative thereto.  “(Submitted by Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will 
make recommendation at town meeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend Article XXIV of the 
Town Bylaws, entitled “Sewer Bylaw,” by adding the Section 9.0, “Regulation Changes,” such revi-
sions currently on file in the offices of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen and Sewer Commission.  
===PAGE 156===
156 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 37. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Table of Contents, by de-
leting the words “Development Plan Review” and inserting the words “Site Plan Approval”, (see 
bolded wording) or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Select-
men and Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting. VOTED UNANI-
MOUSLY to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Table of Contents, by deleting the words “Development 
Plan Review” and inserting the words “Site Plan Approval.”   
ARTICLE 38. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 3.0, Establish-
ment of Districts (3.1 Types of Districts) , by deleting the word fourteen (14) and inserting the word 
fifteen (15), or take any action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommen-
dation at town meeting.    
3.1. Types of Districts 
 The Town of Lunenburg is hereby divided into fourteen fifteen (1415) types of districts 
designated as: 
  a) Residence A 
  b) Residence B 
  c) Outlying 
  d) Recreation 
  e) Commercial 
  f) Limited Business/Residential District 
  g) Retail Commercial District 
  h) Route 2A Overlay District 
  i) Office Park and Industrial District 
  j) Flood Plain District 
  k) Water Supply Protection District 
  l) Whalom Overlay District 
  m) Tri Town Smart Growth District 
  n) Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District 
                        o)         Village Center District 
(Submitted by Planning Board)  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 
3.0, Establishment of Districts (3.1 Types of Districts), by deleting the word fourteen (14) and in-
serting the word fifteen (15). 
 
ARTICLE 39. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.0, General Pro-
visions Affecting All Districts, by deleting Sections 6.1.2 Design of Off Street Parking and Loading 
Spaces and 6.4.3 Design Requirements and adding a new Section 6.4.3 Off Street Parking Design 
Standards, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Selectmen 
and Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting.    
 
SECTION 8.0. ADMINISTRATION 
 
8.1. Permits 1 – 4 
8.2. Enforcement 1 – 4 
8.3. Board of Appeals 1 – 4 
8.4. Site Plan Approval 1 – 6 
8.5. Applicability 1 
8.6. Adoption Amendment 1 
 
===PAGE 157===
157 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 39. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.0, General Pro-
visions Affecting All Districts, by deleting Sections 6.1.2 Design of Off Street Parking and Loading 
Spaces and 6.4.3 Design Requirements and adding a new Section 6.4.3 Off Street Parking Design 
Standards, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Selectmen 
and Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting.    
 
6.4.3. Off-Street Parking Design Standards 
General Parking & Loading Provisions 
Location 
 1. Required off -street parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot as, and loading bays 
shall be provided next to, the principal or accessory use they are required to serve. 
 
 2. No area may be utilized and counted as both a required parking space and a required loading 
bay, without the approval of the Planning Board. Shared parking/loading areas shall only be 
used for loading prior to opening or after closing of all uses located on the site in question. 
However, maneuvering aisles and driveways may serve both required parking and loading bays 
if they meet the design standards of each. Existing areas used for both parking and loading shall 
be counted for loading purposes. 
 
 3. Required off -street parking spaces or loading bays may be wholly or partly enclosed in a 
structure. 
 
 4. Off-street parking spaces required for two or more buildings, uses, or establishments on a 
single lot may be provided in a common lot. 
 
Driveways  
 1. Each parking space and loading bay shall be connected by a driveway to a street or to an inte-
rior drive that leads to a street. 
 
 2. The number of driveways permitting entrance to and exit from a lot shall be limited to two 
per street line. Driveways shall be located to minimize conflict with traffic on public streets and 
where good visibility and sight distances are available to observe approaching pedestrian and 
vehicular traffic. 
 
 3. All curb cuts and access driveways shall be located in the Zoning District in which the site’s 
primary use is permitted. 
 
 4. The maximum grade of any outdoor driveway is 12%. 
 
 5. No Driveway shall require that vehicles back out onto public or private ways.  
 
Setbacks 
 
 1. Each parking space or driveway serving a one-family or two-family dwelling shall be set 
back five feet from any side lot line and rear lot line, with the exception of common driveways 
===PAGE 158===
158 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
and shall be designated on a plan and is issued a building permit by the Building Commissioner.  
 
 2. No parking is permitted in the front yard other than in a designated parking space or drive-
way. 
 
3. All paved parts of all parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering aisles shall be set back 
from any wall of a principal building and from any lot line or zoning boundary line as indicated 
in the following table: 
 
*all measurements are in feet 
 
Exceptions to the Table Are:  
 
a. One and Two-Family homes 
 
b. A parking space located within a structure otherwise permitted in such area 
 
 4. No parking space, internal driveway or loading bay, whether required or otherwise provided, 
shall be located, wholly or partly, within the right-of-way of a street. 
 
 5. All access to parking shall be by driveways meeting the requirements of this Section; curbs, 
wheel stops, screening or similar barriers must be installed to prevent vehicles from being 
parked or driven within required setback areas. 
 
Screening for Parking 
 
1. In all residential and mixed uses, or on a lot in any district which abuts or is across the street 
from a residential use, any outdoor parking lot, all loading bays, maneuvering aisles and drive-
ways shall be screened in a manner to protect abutting lots from the glare of headlights, noise 
and other nuisance factors. 
 
2. Any parking lot, which is a principal use, must be screened along driveways and around the 
entire perimeter of the parking lot. The entrance to driveways, to the extent practicable, shall be 
located on the side near nonresidential uses or on streets or highways leading to nonresidential 
areas. 
 
District Residential Dis-
trict Line Street Line All Other Lot 
Lines 
Wall of Principal 
Building 
RA; RB; O; R, 
VCD N/A 25 5 5 
LB/R; 25 25 10 5 
RC; C 40 30 15 5 
OP/I 50 30   5 
===PAGE 159===
159 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
3. Screening shall consist of: 
 
a. A strip of land at least four feet wide, densely planted with combination of shrubs, and 
trees with or without earthen berms which shall have a combined height of at least four feet 
high at the time of planting and which are of a type that may be expected to form a year-
round dense screen at least six feet high within three years;  
 
b. A wall, barrier, or fence of uniform appearance at least five feet high above finished 
grade. Such wall, barrier or fence may be opaque or perforated, provided that not more than 
50% of the face is open; or 
 
c. Any combination of a & b approved by the Planning Board through Site Plan Approval.  
 
4. Such screening shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Such screening or barrier 
may be interrupted by entrances or exits and shall have no signs attached thereto other than 
those permitted in the district. 
 
Design Standards 
 
Dimensions 
 
a. Parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall have the minimum dimensions set forth in the 
following table and elsewhere in this section: 
Table 1 
S = Standard Parking Space    C= Compact Parking Space 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES: 
 
* Where one or both of the long sides of a parking space abut a wall or similar obstruction, 
the width shall be 12 feet. 
 
** Up to 2 feet of unpaved landscaped space may be included in the depth provided there are 
no obstructions to the vehicles overhang. 
 
Angle of 
Parking 
Width of 
Parking Space 
Depth of 
Parking Space** 
Width of 
Maneuvering 
Aisle 
Unit Parking 
Depth 
 S C S C S C S C 
61 to 90 9* 8.5* 19 15 22 20 60 50 
46 to 60 9 8.5 19 15 16 15 56 48 
45 9 8.5 19 15 14 13 53 47 
Parallel 8 8 22 18 12 12 n/a n/a 
 
===PAGE 160===
160 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
b. To count as a required parking space, a parallel parking space shall have maneuvering 
space at least 20 feet deep in front of it in an aisle parallel to and abutting such parking space. 
 
c. Where columns of a building or structure are located in a parking lot (such as a parking 
garage under a building) no part of a column may be within three feet of a maneuvering aisle 
or within the minimum dimensions of a parking space. 
 
d. The width of a driveway for one-way use shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet and for two-
way use shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet and a maximum of thirty (30) feet, as meas-
ured at the setback line. 
 
e. Where access or egress is provided for a parking lot, or one or more loading bays, such ac-
cess or egress shall be so arranged to provide a circulation system or maneuvering space on 
the lot so that all vehicles may exit from and enter onto a public street by being driven in a 
forward direction and no vehicle shall be required to enter or leave by backing and no vehicle 
shall have to stand within a street right-of-way waiting to enter the lot.  
 
2. Number of compact car spaces. In parking lots containing more than 20 spaces, not more than 
33% of such spaces may be designed for use by compact cars. Such compact car spaces shall be 
located in one or more continuous areas and shall not be intermixed with spaces designed for 
standard cars and shall be clearly designated by signs or pavement marking. In parking lots with 
20 or fewer parking spaces, spaces designed for use by compact cars are not permitted. 
 
3. Loading bays. All required loading bays must have minimum dimensions as follows: 30 feet 
long, 12 feet wide and 14 feet high. Each loading bay shall have a maneuvering space equal to 
its length. Where the long portion of a loading bay abuts a wall, column or other obstacle, or in 
other cases where the permitting authority requests, evidence shall be provided that the loading 
bay and its maneuvering space are adequate to accommodate large motor vehicles and trailers.  
 
All required loading bays shall have an adequate travel isle to provide access. This may be sepa-
rately located or through the parking area. In either instance the “Truck Route” shall be clearly 
delineated by signage or pavement marking. An adequate travel path shall provide width and 
turning radii appropriate to a WB-55 or the largest truck expected to deliver goods to the site, 
whichever is larger. 
 
4. Marking. In a parking lot or loading area, the surface of the parking lot or loading area shall 
be painted, marked or otherwise delineated so that the location of the parking spaces and load-
ing bays is apparent, and signs shall be erected indicating that loading bays, and, if necessary, 
compact or other reserved parking spaces, are reserved for such use. Where 50% or more of the 
required parking spaces in a parking lot are assigned, such as to individual employees or to 
dwelling units in a dwelling, parking spaces for guests or visitors to the use or establishment, 
not to exceed 10% of the required parking spaces, shall be located and designated, by signage or 
pavement marking, as visitor parking near the principal entrance to the building which they 
serve. 
 
===PAGE 161===
161 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
5. Availability. To ensure the availability and utilization of required parking spaces and loading 
bays on a year-round basis: 
 
a. Unless authorized by Special Permit or Site Plan Approval, no fee or other charge to the 
parker, in addition to a lease or purchase agreement applicable to occupants generally, shall 
be made for a parking space or loading bay required to serve a use, building, or establish-
ment. 
 
b. Each required off-street parking space and loading bay shall be designed so that any motor 
vehicle may proceed to and from said space without requiring the moving of any other vehi-
cle or by passing over any other space or bay. 
 
c. Parking spaces for vehicles larger than automobiles, such as large trucks or buses, shall be 
specifically identified on the off-street parking and loading plan and shall be of such dimen-
sion as to accommodate the specified type of vehicle. Such vehicles shall be permitted to 
park only in the spaces so identified and approved. 
 
6. Snow storage. An aggregate area equal to, at a minimum, ten percent (10%) of the paved area 
shall be set aside for snow storage. Snow storage shall be designated, at a minimum, in two sep-
arate and distinct places on the property. These areas shall be located on the submitted off-street 
parking and loading plan.  
 
In addition snow storage shall be prohibited from: 
 a. Being located on/in stormwater structures or ponds; 
 b. Impacting the sight lines at intersections both within the site and where the site driveway 
meets public roads.  
 c. Being located in/on off-street parking spaces that are required per the Protective Bylaw. 
 
7. Surfacing and drainage. 
 
a. All required parking spaces and loading bays, maneuvering aisles, and driveways shall 
have a durable, dustless, all-weather surface suitable for year-round use, such as asphalt or 
concrete, and shall dispose of surface water by grading and drainage in such a manner that no 
surface water shall drain onto any public way or onto any lot in other ownership. 
 
b. It is the intent of this Section that the paved surface of a parking lot or loading area shall be lim-
ited to such areas as are necessary for the parking spaces, loading bays, maneuvering aisles, and 
driveways required to meet the provisions of this Section. The off-street parking and loading plan 
required by this Section shall demonstrate that all paved areas associated with a parking lot are nec-
essary for the storing, standing, or maneuvering of vehicles; the permitting authority may deny the 
request for a permit when more area is paved than is necessary to comply with the provisions of this 
Section. 
 
8. Grade. The maximum grade of any required maneuvering aisle, parking space, or loading bay 
shall be 10%. 
 
===PAGE 162===
162 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
9. Landscaping. 
 
a. On at least three sides of the perimeter of an outdoor parking lot containing 20 or more 
parking spaces, there must be at least one tree for every eight parking spaces abutting the 
perimeter; such trees must be spaced so that some part of a parking space is not more than 
30 feet from the center line of a tree. 
 
b. In the interior part of an outdoor parking lot where two rows of parking spaces containing 
a total of 10 or more parking spaces face each other, a landscaped open space not less than 
five feet in width must be provided. The landscaped strip may be provided either: 
 
i. Between the rows of parking spaces parallel to the aisle; or 
 
ii. In two or more strips parallel to the spaces and extending from the aisle serving one 
row of spaces to the aisle serving the other row of spaces. There must be in each such 
strip, at least three trees and in all such strips not fewer than one tree for every eight 
parking spaces in the interior part of the parking lot. Trees must be spaced so that some 
part of each parking space is not more than 30 feet from a tree. 
 
c. Trees required by this Section shall be at least two inches in diameter at a height four feet 
above the ground at time of planting and shall be of a species characterized by suitability 
and hardiness for location in a parking lot. To the extent practicable, existing trees shall be 
retained and used to satisfy this Section. 
 
10. Exception for one-family or two-family dwelling. The provisions of 6.4.3 b) 5; 6.43 e) 4, 5 
& 6 with regard to backing into a public street, marking of pavement, moving of vehicles and 
surfacing and drainage and snow storage shall not apply where parking is provided for any one
-family or two-family dwelling.  
 
Bicycle Parking 
 
1. Required spaces. In any parking area with twenty or more spaces as defined in the parking 
and loading tables, a minimum of two bicycle parking spaces shall be provided, and one addi-
tional bicycle parking space shall be provided for each increment of 20 motor vehicle parking 
spaces over 40 vehicle spaces. 
 
2. Placement and access. Bicycle parking shall be located near the primary entrance(s) of the 
building. Half of the bicycle parking spaces shall be provided as long-term parking, safe and 
secure from vandalism and theft and protected from the elements. The other half shall be pro-
vided as short-term (customer or visitor) parking, and short-term parking spaces shall be visi-
ble and convenient to the building entrance. Bicycle parking apparatus shall not be installed in 
a manner that will cause obstruction of pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic. Bicycle parking 
shall be situated in such a way that normal snow removal activities and snow storage do not 
impact the bicycle parking facility. 
 
===PAGE 163===
163 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
3. Dimensional Regulation. Each bicycle parking space shall be sufficient to accommodate a 
bicycle six feet in length and two feet in width. 
 
4. Design. Bicycle parking apparatus shall be of a high-security design to which the frame and 
wheel of a parked bicycle may be attached; installed in a visible location to deter vandalism 
and theft; and permanently mounted to the ground or to a building or other immovable struc-
ture. Inverted-U-frame or other racks that support the bicycle at two or more points above the 
center of gravity are required. VOTED 2/3RDS DECLARED to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Sec-
tion 6.0, General Provisions Affecting All Districts, by deleting Sections 6.1.2, Design of Off 
Street Parking and Loading Spaces and 6.4.3, Design Requirements and adding a new Section 
6.4.3, Off Street Parking Design Standards. 
 
ARTICLE 40. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 8.4, Develop-
ment Plan Review, by deleting the entirety of the existing wording and inserting a new Section 8.4 
Site Plan Approval, or take any action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommen-
dation at town meeting.    
 
8.4. Site Plan Approval 
8.4.1. Purpose  
The purpose of the Site Plan Review Bylaw hereby established is to protect the safety, public 
health, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of the Town by ensuring that the design 
and layout of certain developments permitted by right or by Special Permit will constitute suitable 
developments and will not result in a detriment to the neighborhood or the environment. 
 
8.4.2. Applicability 
8.4.2.1. Projects Requiring Site Plan Review 
a) New construction or exterior expansion of any non-residential building or multi-family 
dwelling containing more than four (4) units. "Expansion" shall include a floor space in-
crease of 5,000 square feet or 25% or more within any ten (10) year period, whichever is 
less. 
 
b) The construction or enlargement of any multi-family dwelling containing more than four (4) 
units, or buildings accessory to such dwellings, including such dwellings on contiguous 
lots under the same ownership. 
 
c) The construction, rehabilitation, of a building involving ten (10) or more parking spaces. 
 
d) The construction, reconfiguration or renovation of parking facilities, with the exception of 
normal maintenance. 
 
e) Any use designated that is grated a Special Permit or Variance by the Zoning Board of  
    Appeals. 
 
===PAGE 164===
164 
  
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
f) Any change of use within an existing building or site.  
 
g) Any child care facility. 
 
8.4.3. Procedure 
8.4.3.1. Applications are to be prepared in accordance with the Planning Board Rules and Regulations 
for Site Plan Approval and Special Permit. These plans are to be submitted to the Planning Office in 
the number outlined in the aforementioned document.  
 
8.4.3.2. Public Hearing on Site Plans 
a) The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing within sixty -five (65) days of the receipt of a 
complete application and shall take final action within ninety (90) days from the time of the 
hearing, as provided for in MGL Chapter 40A, Sections 9 and 11.  
b) The Planning Board's final action, rendered in writing, shall consist of either: 
1. Approval of the site plan based upon determination that the proposed plan will constitute a 
suitable development and is in compliance with the standards set forth in this Bylaw; or 
 
2. Disapproval of the site plan based upon a determination that the proposed plan does not meet 
the standards set forth in this Bylaw; or 
 
3. Approval of the site plan subject to any condition, modification or restriction required by the 
Planning Board which will ensure that the project meets the standards set forth in this Bylaw. 
 
8.4.3.3. Failure of the Board to take final action upon an application for Site Plan Review within the 
time specified above shall be deemed to be approval of said application. Upon issuance by the Town 
Clerk of an appropriate certification that the allowed time has passed without Planning Board action, 
the required building permits may be issued. 
 
8.4.4. Site Design Principles 
8.4.4.1. All Site Plan Review applicants shall adhere to the following general principles when design-
ing a site plan for land within the Town of Lunenburg. 
a) Landscaping Within the Setbacks: Applicants are expected to design setbacks with landscaping, 
maintain the landscaping and replace any landscaping that has not fully established itself. Front 
yard setback landscaping shall consist of street trees, low -level plantings and other visually 
unobtrusive flora. Landscaping shall be situated in a manner such that vehicular and pedestrian 
sight lines are not restricted. 
 
b) Driveways and Curb Cuts: Entrance and exit location shall be designed to facilitate safe traffic 
movement both on and off the site as well as internally.  Curb cuts are limited to as few as 
practicable for the length of street frontage with adequate separation from adjacent parcels, 
other curb cuts and intersections.  
 
c) Service Roads/Connection of Parking Lots: To minimize turning movements onto adjacent pub-
lic ways, developers are encouraged to provide internal circulation systems (service roads) 
===PAGE 165===
165 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
     that connect to adjacent developments (parking area to parking area). Site plans that pro-
pose service roads and/or connection of parking areas shall show on the plan how the con-
nection of parking areas will be achieved and have a deeded agreement and easement from 
the abutter. 
 
d)  Parking and Loading Areas:  
 
1. Access locations shall be designed to encourage unimpeded traffic flow with controlled 
turning movements and minimum hazards to vehicular and pedestrian traffic.   
 
2. Facilities and access routes for deliveries, service and maintenance shall be separated, where 
practical, from public access routes and parking areas.  
 
3. Parking facilities shall be designed to prevent parked cars from damaging trees, shrubs and 
curbing, and shall not disrupt pedestrian walkways.  
 
4. Walkways shall be separated from areas of vehicular traffic and designed to minimize 
stormwater runoff while maximizing access.  
 
5. These facilities shall include appropriate landscaping, pedestrian access and multi -modal 
parking accommodations.  
 
e) Stormwater Management (Grading and Drainage): All site plans shall be designed to com-
ply with DEP (Department of Environmental Protection) Stormwater Management Stand-
ards. Furthermore, the use of Low Impact Development, infiltration of stormwater and re-
duction of impervious surface are strongly encouraged.  
 
f) Lighting: Lighting designs shall be Dark Sky compliant.  This includes all exterior lights 
being designed and installed in such a manner as to prevent objectionable light at (and 
glare across) the property lines.  Developments shall eliminate glare onto adjacent proper-
ties through the use of lighting shields, earthen berms, addition of new landscaping and/or 
retention of existing natural vegetation. 
 
8.4.5. Standards for Site Plan Review 
8.4.5.1. In reviewing a site plan application, the Planning Board shall take the following items into 
consideration: 
a) Compliance with all applicable provisions of the Lunenburg Protective Bylaw; Planning 
Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permit; and Subdivision 
Regulations. 
 
b) Traffic safety and ease of access at street and highway entrances and exits, to be determined 
by   
 
 
===PAGE 166===
166 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
1. The adequacy of grades,  
 
       2. The presence of sight distances that are appropriate for the design speed of the road, as   
           determined  by ASHTO,  
 
       3. Minimum safe distance between such exits and entrances, and  
 4. The existence of proper alignment or safe distance from proximal existing street(s) and drive    
      way entrances. 
 
c) Safety and adequacy of driveway layout and pedestrian walkways; off-street parking areas; off-
street loading areas for materials and products; to be determined by 
 
1. Adequate access for service and emergency vehicles,  
 
2. Proper separation of pedestrian and vehicular facilities, 
 
3. The presence of separated facilities for delivery of goods, and 
 
4. Acceptable traffic patterns to/from the site entrance/exit and within the parking facilities. 
 
d) Safe and adequate means of disposal of sewage, garbage and rubbish. 
 
e) Safe and adequate water supply and distribution; including sufficient water and facilities for 
firefighting on the site. 
 
  f) Safe and adequate storm drainage consistent with  
           1. building and surface coverage,  
 
           2. grade and slopes,  
 
          3. soils and  
 
          4. water table  
 
All of which shall result in zero increase in the rate of runoff from the site, as measured by the 2-Year 
(24-hour) and 10-Year (24-hour) Storm Event Standards; and there will be no negative impacts to 
downstream property-owners in a 100-year (24-hour) storm event. The stormwater system shall meet 
all the requirements and standards of the Massachusetts Stormwater Management Standards, as 
amended.  
g) Prevention of soil erosion during and after construction; provisions for an increase in the vol-
ume of runoff of surface water from the site and the protection of adjacent areas against detri-
mental or offensive uses on the site by the provision of adequate buffers against light, sight,  
===PAGE 167===
167 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
sound, dust and vibrations. 
 
   h) Open space provisions and landscaping, including the maximum retention of on -site natu-
ral features. 
   i)  Placement of underground utilities, night lighting and signs. 
 
   j) Compatibility of soil and subsoil's to type and intensity of development. 
 
   k) No exterior lighting shall shine directly on adjacent properties, or in such a manner as to 
create a nuisance on such properties or a hazard on public ways. To ensure exterior lighting 
conforms to this provision the following conditions shall be met. 
    1.  For the proposed use all lighting installed shall conform to the standards outlined in The 
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America Lighting Manual. 
    2.  All lighting, with the exception of security lighting, shall be turned on no earlier than one 
half hour prior to the business opening and turned off no later than one half hour after the 
business closing. 
    3.  The Lighting Plan shall meet the requirements outlined in the “Lighting Plan Submis-
sions” section of the Dark Sky Society’s 2009 Guidelines for Good Exterior Lighting 
Plans, as amended; 
 
    4. All fixtures u sing LED lighting shall be in the range of “warm -white” or shall be fil-
tered LEDs that meet the standard of CCT < 3,000 K or have an S/P ratio < 1.2)   
 
1) Snow storage areas shall be shown on the site plan and shall not interfere with sight distanc-
es at points of ingress/egress to a site or pedestrian/vehicle circulation, nor shall it adverse-
ly impact surrounding water bodies, streams, wetlands, or other resource areas as defined 
in Chapter 131 section 40 Massachusetts General Laws, and the Lunenburg Wetlands By-
law, as amended. 
 
8.4.6. Modifications to an Approved Site Plan 
 
8.4.6.1. Once a site plan has been approved by the Planning Board, said plan shall not be changed, 
amended or modified without approval of the Board. There shall be only one final site plan in ef-
fect for a parcel of land at a time. 
 
8.4.7. Construction of an Approved Site Plan 
8.4.7.1. Construction on a site with an approved site plan must be started within one (1) year from 
the date of the Planning Board's approval of the site plan. Site plan approval may be extended for 
one (1) year at the discretion of the Board after receipt of a written request from the landowner, 
showing good cause. If one year has elapsed from the date of approval; and no extensions have 
been granted; or if one year has elapsed since the granting of said extension; the final site plan ap-
proval shall become null and void without requiring any further action by the Planning Board. 
This time period shall not include delays resulting from litigation. 
===PAGE 168===
168 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
8.4.7.2. No permit to build, alter or expand any building or structure, or change of use requiring Site 
Plan Review under this Bylaw shall be issued by the Building Inspector; nor shall any construction 
commence before a written statement of Approval or Approval with Conditions has been issued by 
the Planning Board. 
 
8.4.7.3. The Building Inspector may inspect a site under construction for compliance with the ap-
proved site plan. 
 
8.4.8. Enforcement 
8.4.8.1. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector/Zoning Enforcement Officer to administer and 
enforce the provisions of this Bylaw. 
 
8.4.8.2. The Planning Board shall provide a schedule of inspection fees to be paid by the applicant 
prior to the start of construction. 
 
8.4.8.3. The Planning Board may use inspection fees paid by the applicant to offset the cost of hir-
ing any additional engineers or inspectors necessary to monitor all phases of construction covered 
by an approved site plan. 
 
8.4.8.4. If work is not performed per the approved plan, including all conditions, the Building In-
spector/Zoning Enforcement Officer has the authority to issue a cease and desist order per the Plan-
ning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permits, as amended.  
 
8.4.8.5. "As Built" plans, certified by a registered professional and noting any change from the ap-
proved plan, shall be filed with the Building Inspector and the Planning Board before a Certificate 
of Completion shall be issued. 
 
8.4.8.6. Building Inspector shall issue a Certificate of Completion when all construction has been 
performed and all other requirements have been met in compliance with the approved site plan. A 
copy of the Certificate of Completion will be filed with the Planning Board. 
 
8.4.8.7. No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for any structure or use subject to site plan re-
view unless a Certificate of Completion has been issued. 
 
8.4.8.8. The Building Inspector may issue a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy for a period of one 
(1) year if the required construction has been substantially completed and the permitted uses of the 
development can be carried on in a safe and convenient manner. 
 
8.4.9. Rules and Regulations 
8.4.9.1. The Planning Board may adopt such rules and regulations for carrying out its duties under 
this Section. The Board may, where such action allowed by law, in the public interest and not in-
consistent with the purpose and intent of this Bylaw, waive strict compliance with any requirement 
of this Site Plan Review Bylaw or its rules and regulations. 
 
===PAGE 169===
169 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
8.4.9.2. The Planning Board may periodically amend or add rules and regulations relating to the 
procedures and administration of this Site Plan Review Bylaw, by majority vote of the Board, after 
conducting a public hearing to receive comments on any proposed revisions. Such hearing dates 
shall be advertised in a newspaper of general local circulation, at least seven (7) days prior to the 
hearing date. 
 
8.4.10. Appeals Procedure 
8.4.10.1. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning Board or Building Inspector re-
garding a Site Plan Review application may appeal that decision per M.G.L Chapter 40A Section 
17, as amended. 
VOTED 2/3RDS DECLARED to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 8.4, Development Plan 
Review, by deleting the entirety of the existing wording and inserting a new Section 8.4, Site 
Plan Approval. 
 
ARTICLE 41. To see if the Town will vote to amend the following Town of Lunenburg Protective 
Bylaw sections as follows (changes are bolded italic): Under Section 2.0 DEFINITIONS, 2.1.1.16 
Farming and Agriculture  
a) Farm: A parcel of land as defined by M.G.L. Ch. 40A § 3, used for commercial production of 
agricultural products, livestock, (including the keeping of horses), poultry, dairy products, viticul-
ture, horticulture and floriculture. It includes necessary farm structures and the storage of equip-
ment used. 
 b) Agriculture: Farming as defined by M.G.L. 128 Ch. §1A and Under Section 4.0 USE REGULA-
TIONS, Remove entire wording in 4.1.3 b) and replace with 4.1.3. b) Farming as defined in Section 
2.0 Definitions, 2.1.1.16 Farming and Agriculture and Under Section 5.0 DIMENSIONAL REGU-
LATIONS, 5.1.2.1. Lot Area, Width, Shape and Frontage, remove the following entire section:  
(e) In case of a farm exempted from the provisions of the zoning by Statute, the minimum lot area, 
width and frontage requirements shall be in addition to the five acres as required under Massachu-
setts General Law Chapter 40A, Section 3 and Chapter 61A. (Submitted by Agricultural Commis-
sion)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting.   
Article 41 was PASSED OVER 
 
ARTICLE 42. To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws of the Town by revising 
Section XXXII, entitled Architectural Preservation District, by making technical changes to reflect 
the intent of discussions at the May 2, 2015 Annual Town Meeting as follows: Section 3: Designa-
tion of Architectural Preservation District (APD).  To delete the words “map entitled “Town of 
Lunenburg Historic District and the Lunenburg Village District” and insert the words “map entitled 
“Town of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation District” and to delete the map entitled 
“Lunenburg Historic District” and replace it with the map entitled “Town of Lunenburg Architec-
tural Preservation District”, which map is appended to this bylaw.; Section 4: Architectural Preser-
vation District Commission; Delete the words “and two residents of the APD and one resident at 
large.” in the fourth sentence and insert “and one resident of the APD and one resident at large.”; 
Section 8: Binding Review.  Delete the words “Within thirty (45) days” in the fourth sentence and 
insert “Within forty -five (45) days”; Section 12:  Coordination with Other Town Boards and By-
laws.  In sub -section (d), to delete the words “The APDC shall be included as an advisory review 
entity in new construction projects” and insert the words “The APDC shall be included as an   
===PAGE 170===
170 
 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
advisory review entity in new construction projects in the APD”; Section 15:  Appendices.  In Ap-
pendix A, to delete the words “are defined and shown on the Town of Lunenburg Village Center 
District Map and the Town of Lunenburg Historic District Map, which is a part of this bylaw.” and 
insert the words “are defined and shown on the map entitled “Town of Lunenburg Architectural 
Preservation District”, which is a part of this bylaw.”; or take any action relative thereon. 
(Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recom-
mendation at town meeting.   VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend the General Bylaws of the 
Town by revising Section XXXII, entitled Architectural Preservation District, as printed in the war-
rant.   
 
 
 

===PAGE 171===
171 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 43.  To see if the Town will vote to amend General Bylaw, General Wetlands Bylaw 
XXI, making the following additions and changes, or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by 
Conservation Commission) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommenda-
tion at town meeting.    
 
CHANGES new language SHOWN IN strikethrough 
SECTION 2:  JURISDICTION ~ Except as permitted by the Conservation Commission or as pro-
vided in this bylaw, no person shall commence to remove, fill, dredge, build upon, degrade, dis-
charge into, or otherwise alter the following resource areas: any freshwater wetlands; marshes; 
wet meadows; bogs; swamps; vernal pools; banks; reservoirs; lakes; ponds of any size; creeks; 
beaches; lands under water bodies; lands subject to flooding or inundation by groundwater or sur-
face water; lands subject to flooding; lands within 100 feet of any of the aforesaid resource areas; 
perennial rivers and streams and lands within 200 feet of such rivers and streams (collectively the 
"resource areas protected by this bylaw"). Said resource areas shall be protected whether or not 
they border surface waters. (ADD THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE TO THIS SECTION) Lands 
within 100 feet of aforesaid resource areas and within 200 feet of rivers or perennial streams lo-
cated within the corporate boundary of Lunenburg shall be protected regardless of the location of 
the wetland with respect to municipal corporate boundary. 
 
SECTION 5: NOTICE OF HEARINGS ~ Any person filing a permit application or (REMOVE 
RFD AND ADD) RDA with the Commission at the same time shall give written notice thereof, by 
certified mail (return receipt requested), (ADD) certificate of mail or hand delivery, to all abutters 
according to the most recent applicable tax list of the assessors, including owners of land directly 
opposite on any public or private street or way, including any in another municipality or across a 
body of water. The notice to abutters shall enclose a copy of the permit application or request, 
with plans, or shall state where copies may be examined and obtained by abutters. An affidavit of 
the person providing such notice, with a copy of the notice mailed or delivered, shall be filed with 
the Commission. When a person requesting a determination is other than the owner, the request, 
the notice of the hearing and the determination itself shall be sent by the Commission to the owner 
as well as to the person making the request. 
 
The Commission shall conduct a public hearing on any application or (REMOVE RFD AND 
ADD) RDA, with written notice given at the expense of the applicant, five business days prior to 
the hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. 
 
The Commission shall commence the public hearing within 21 days from receipt of a completed 
application or request for determination unless an extension is authorized in writing by the appli-
cant. 
 
The Commission shall issue its permit or determination in writing within 21 days of the close of 
the public hearing thereon unless an extension is authorized in writing by the applicant. 
 
The Commission in an appropriate case may combine its hearing under this bylaw with the hear-
ing conducted under the Wetlands Protection Act, G.L. Ch.131, s. 40, and Regulations, 310 CMR 
10.00. 
===PAGE 172===
172 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
The Commission shall have authority to continue the hearing, (ADD) with the applicant’s consent 
written or granted verbally on the record during the course of the public hearing or meeting, to a 
certain date announced at the hearing, for reasons stated at the hearing, which may include receipt 
of additional information from the applicant or others deemed necessary by the Commission in its 
discretion, or comments and recommendations of boards and officials listed in Section 6. 
 
SECTION 6: COORDINATION WITH OTHER BOARDS ~ Any person filing a Wetlands Protec-
tion Act Permit application or (REMOVE RFD AND ADD) RDA with the Commission shall pro-
vide written notice thereof at the same time, by certified mail or hand delivery, to the Board of" 
Selectmen, Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Board of Health and Building Inspector. 
The Commission shall not take final action until such boards and officials have had fourteen (14) 
days from receipt of notice to file written comments and recommendations with the Commission, 
which the Commission shall take into account, but which shall not be binding on the Commission. 
The applicant shall have the right to receive any such comments and recommendations, and to re-
spond to them at a hearing of the Commission, prior to final action. 
 
SECTION 7: PERMITS AND CONDITIONS  
(CHANGE TO PARAGRAPH 6) 
A permit shall expire three years from the date of issuance. Notwithstanding the above, the Com-
mission in its discretion may issue a permit expiring five years from the date of issuance for recur-
ring or continuous maintenance work, provided that annual notification of time and location of 
work is given to the Commission. (ADD) The Commission may extend a permit or a previous ex-
tension for an additional period of no greater than three years per extension. Any permit may be 
renewed once for an additional one year period, provided that a request for a renewal is received in 
writing by the Commission prior to expiration. Notwithstanding the above, a permit may contain 
requirements which shall be enforceable for a stated number of years, indefinitely, or until perma-
nent protection is in place, and shall apply to all owners of the land. 
 
SECTION 8. REGULATIONS~ After public notice and public hearing, the Commission shall 
promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this bylaw. Failure by the Commis-
sion to promulgate such rules and regulations or a legal declaration of their invalidity by a court of 
law shall not3 act to suspend or invalidate the effect of this bylaw. 
At a minimum these regulations shall define key terms in this bylaw not inconsistent with the by-
law and procedures governing the amount and filing of fees. (ADD THE FOLLOWING PARA-
GRAPH) The Conservation Commission will establish a draft of proposed changes during regular, 
properly posted open meetings. Once there is consensus on the proposed changes, a formal hear-
ing will be scheduled and will take place over 2 regularly scheduled meetings.  Both hearings will 
be televised.   A notice of the hearings will be put in a local newspaper at least 10 business days 
prior to the hearing dates.  At the discretion of the Conservation Commission, the hearing may be 
continued to the next consecutive open, regularly scheduled meeting. Once the hearing is closed, 
the final changes will be drafted and voted on. The proposed and approved changes will be posted 
on the Commission’s Town website. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend the General Bylaws of 
the Town, Section XXI, General Wetlands Bylaw, as printed in the warrant. 
===PAGE 173===
173 
Annual Town Meeting – May 5, 2016 
 
ARTICLE 44. To provide Yard Waste Disposal Services for its residents on a bi -weekly schedule 
from 5/1 -10/31 (6 mo.) or (12X); or take any other action relative thereto. (Citizen Petition Article) 
Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend a STRAW VOTE.  (60 / 40)  to provide 
Yard Waste Disposal Services for its residents on a bi -weekly schedule annually from May 1 
through October 31, and to determine the level of support for this expenditure, that the Moderator 
conduct a straw vote to encourage the Town to set aside funds within the FY2018 Operating Budget 
to provide for this service.  
 
ARTICLE 45. To see if the Town will vote to establish a study committee for the purpose of inves-
tigating the feasibility as well as costs and benefits of having the Lunenburg Water District become 
a Town department and to establish transition milestones. Said committee to report back with its 
recommendations no later than the 2017 annual town meeting; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 4 – 1.  
Finance Committee NDFI. Article 45 was DEFEATED (NO – 86, YES – 58).   
 
Meeting adjourned at 3:25 P.M. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 174===
174 
 FY 16 OMNIBUS BUDGET  
   
LINE # ACCOUNT Fiscal Year 2016 
 Maturing Debt & Interest  
1 Principal-Loans $            2,876,260.00 
2 Interest –Loans $            1,674,464.00 
3 Interest-Temporary Loans $                             - 
3A Administrative Fees-Loans $                   7,196.00 
3B Bond Issuance Costs $                          - 
   
 Total Maturing Debt $            4,557,920.00 
   
 Unclassified  
4 Liability Insurance $               210,364.00 
5 Workers Compensation $                 61,889.00 
6 Group Health Insurance $            1,754,073.00 
7 Group Life Insurance $                 22,191.00 
8 Physicals $                   3,500.00 
9 Print Town Reports $                   5,000.00 
10 MRPC Assessment $                   3,200.00 
11 Historical Commission $                      500.00 
12 Band Concerts $                   4,200.00 
13 Reserve Fund $                 50,000.00 
13A Salary Reserve Fund $                 45,000.00 
14 Unemployment Expense $                  10,000.00 
14A Unempl. Exp.-Stab. Fund $                              - 
15 Medicare Town Share $               217,551.00 
   
 Total Gen Govt. 
Unclassified 
$            2,387,468.00 
   
 General Government  
16 Finance Comm. Expense $                      800.00 
17 Annual Town Audit $                 35,000.00 
18 Charter Review Comm. $                               - 
19 Selectmen's Admin $                46,412.00 
20 Selectmen Salaries $                      500.00 
21 Town Manager Salary $               127,500.00 
22 Town Manager Expense $                  5,350.00 
23 Town Accountant $               169,137.00 
24 Treasurer's Administration $                 63,115.00 
25 Banking Charges $                  1,000.00 
26 Tax Collector's Admin $                 78,375.00 
27 Assessor's Salaries $                            - 
28 Assessor's Administration $               148,354.00 
29 Technology Director $               152,480.00 
30 Legal Expenses $               112,500.00 
31 Town Clerk Salary $                 46,579.00 
32 Town Clerk's Admin $                 30,383.00 
33 Elections $                 14,215.00 
34 Registration & Census $                 12,475.00 
35 Planning Board $                136,515.00 
36 Zoning Board of Appeals $                   3,975.00 
37 Conservation Commission $                 48,996.00 
   
 Total General Govt.  $           1,233,661.00 
===PAGE 175===
175 
   
 Central Purchasing  
38 Central Purchasing $                 52,950.00 
   
 Total Central Purchasing $                 52,950.00 
   
 Protection  
39 Police Department $            1,352,982.00 
40 Police Lock Up $                 75,000.00 
41 Injury Leave $                   5,000.00 
42 Police/Fire Med Expenses $                   5,000.00 
   
 Subtotal Police $           1,437,982.00 
   
43 Fire Department $               703,540.00 
43A Capital – Fire Dept. $                 20,000.00 
44 Fire Hydrant Expense $                 15,000.00 
45 Radio Equipment Maint. $                 10,000.00 
   
 Subtotal Fire Dept. $              748,540.00 
   
46 Radio Watch $              261,975.00 
   
 Subtotal Radio Watch $              261,975.00 
   
47 Emergency Management $                   6,500.00 
48 Sealer of Weights & 
Measure 
$                   4,100.00 
49 Wiring Inspector $                 16,500.00 
50 Building Inspector $               123,093.00 
51 Municipal Hearing Officer $                             - 
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector $                 15,000.00 
53 Animal Control $                 25,300.00 
   
 Subtotal Other Protection $               190,493.00 
   
 Total Protection $            2,638,990.00 
   
 Health & Sanitation  
54 General Health Expense $                 32,590.00 
55 Nashoba Board of Health $                 22,846.00 
56 Nashoba Nursing $                 10,227.00 
57 Mental Health $                            - 
58 Animal Inspector Salary $                   1,000.00 
   
 Total Health & Sanitation $                 66,663.00 
   
 Dept. of Public Works  
59 Highway Labor $               406,353.00 
60 Highway OT $                   6,200.00 
61 General Hwy. Maint. $               412,500.00 
61A Capital – General Highway $                            - 
62 Town Highway Garage $                    1,020.00 
63 Traffic Signs & Devices $                  27,745.00 
64 Vehicle Maint. - Highway $                  70,843.00 
65 Vehicle Maint.- Police $                  72,425.00 
===PAGE 176===
176 
66 Vehicle Maint. - Fire $                  44,268.00 
67 Park Department $                  71,974.00 
68 Cemetery Department $                  48,910.00 
69 Tree Removal $                  30,500.00 
70 Snow Removal Expense $                275,000.00 
   
 Total DPW $            1,467,738.00 
   
 Facilities and Buildings  
71 Facilities and Grounds $               359,919.00 
71A Additional Utilities, Library $                 14,251.00 
72 Public Buildings $               251,200.00 
   
 Total Facilities & 
Buildings 
$                625,370.00 
   
 Solid Waste/Recycling  
73 Recycling Program $                147,000.00 
   
 Total Solid Waste/Recycle $                147,000.00 
   
 Public Assistance  
74 Council on Aging $               111,210.00 
   
 Subtotal C.O.A. $               111,210.00 
   
75 Veterans’ Benefits $                 50,000.00 
76 Veteran's Administration $                   5,250.00 
77 Registrar of Vets' Graves $                      500.00 
78 Memorial Day $                      750.00 
   
 Subtotal Veterans $                 56,500.00 
   
 Total Assistance $               167,710.00 
   
 Schools  
79 School Department $          17,399,092.00 
79A Unemp.School- 
Stab/Free Cash 
$                               - 
79B Curriculum Update $               116,000.00 
80 Monty Tech Assessment $               801,484.00 
81 Vehicle Maint. – School $                               - 
   
 Total Schools $          18,316,576.00 
   
 Library  
82 Lunenburg Public Library $               363,849.00 
   
 Total Library $               363,849.00 
   
   
 Total Omnibus $          32,025,895.00 
 
===PAGE 177===
177 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS 
 
Special Town Meeting– August 22, 2016 
 
The Special Town Meeting was called to order in the Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditori-
um at 7:02 P.M. by the Moderator and he declared that a quorum was present and that the war-
rant was properly posted.  We pledged allegiance to the flag, the Moderator reminded everyone 
of the rules of procedure and we wished Ms. Lafleur well as this was her last Town Meeting as 
our Town Manager. 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds all sums of 
money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY2017 Budget, under Article 15 of the 
May 7, 2016 Annual Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town 
Manager)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED to raise and 
appropriate the sum of $114,733 as follows:  add to Line 13, Reserve Fund, the sum of $77,993; and 
add to line 79, School Department, the sum of $36,740; to amend the amounts voted under Article 15 
of the May 7, 2016 Annual Town Meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY16, FY17 & FY18 Public Employees Local Union 39 of 
the Laborers’ International Union of North America Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 
2015 – June 30, 2018; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board of Se-
lectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED transfer from Article 15 of the May 7, 
2016 Annual Town Meeting – Line 13A/Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of $6,385.96; to fund the first 
year of the FY 16-FY18 Laborers’ International Union of North America, Public Employees Local 39 
(DPW Unit) Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2018.      
 
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY17, FY18 & FY19 Police Officers Collective Bargaining 
Agreement dated July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2019 with IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO; or take any action 
thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager)  Article 3 was PASSED OVER.  No agreement reached. 
 
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by Cemetery Com-
mission)  Article 4 was PASSED OVER. 
Article 15 was taken up at this time. 
 
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into one or 
more agreements for a term of up to thirty (30) years, with Solect Energy Development, LLC (or its 
assigns, successors or affiliates) for the purchase of energy and corresponding net metering credits 
generated by one or more privately-owned solar photovoltaic facilities to be installed on the rooftops 
of the Town’s Middle/High School and Department of Public Works buildings, such  agreements to be 
on such terms and conditions, and for such consideration, as the Board of Selectmen deems in the best 
 
