===PAGE 89===
89 
 
PLANNING BOARD 
 
District Accessory Uses; Water Supply Protection; Solar Energy Systems; Dimensional Regula-
tions; General Provisions; and Driveways and Entrances, as well as changes to the Zoning Map. A 
total of 10 amendments were proposed to Town Meeting. At the Annual Town Meeting in 2024, 3 
additional amendments were proposed, which involved Energy Storage Systems, Scenic Roads and 
Water Supply Protection once again. All but the Water Supply Protection articles passed.  
 
In FY24, the Board also began to look at the MBTA Zoning requirements for compliance with State 
statute by December 2025.  
 
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING  
In FY24, the Planning Board continued supervising the update of the 2002 Master Plan. The con-
sultants for master planning services, OverUnder, RKG Associates Inc. and Innes Associates, held 
public engagement meetings through June 2024. This early effort focused on public input to reflect 
the vision, values, and goals of the community. Along with public meetings, public surveys that so-
licited input from Lunenburg residents on how they would like to influence the development of their 
Town in the years to come, were developed and implemented.  
Running alongside, the Master Plan Steering Committee, consisting of 15 voting members under 
Charter with the Planning Board, also began and continued their role in facilitating public engage-
ment for the project. The committee’s primary mission was fostering openness and inclusion in the 
master planning process through dialogue and communication with the consulting team and various 
stakeholders in the Lunenburg community. Through their work various essential land use boards, 
committees and commissions were represented. In FY24, they held a total of 10 meetings to support 
this effort.  
While covering all of the above and more regularly scheduled meetings of the board continued at 
Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom. As always, in FY24, the Board con-
tinued to look for ways to improve transparency and involvement.  
The Planning Office that supports the Planning Board is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 
960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be reached at 978-582-4146 extension 5. Various forms are 
available online at https://lunenburgma.gov/ on the Planning Board ’s homepage. The Zoning Map, 
Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains the Protective [Zoning] Bylaws), Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval & 
Special Permits, and Permitting Guidebook are available online.  
 
Chair Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair Timothy Willsmer, Clerk Amanda Reid, Mathew Allison and 
Glenn McLeod, Chris Reilly, Land Use Director  
===PAGE 90===
90 
 
Alfred Gravelle, Chairman 
James Besarkarski, Vice Chairman 
Hans Wentrup, Member 
David Blatt, Member 
Patrick Callahan, Member 
Anthony Nicastro, Associate Member 
Donald Gurney, Associate Member 
          ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard several petitions during calendar year 2024. There were several applicants seeking 
special permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board meetings are held on the second and 
fourth Wednesdays of the month at Town Hall at 7:00PM on an “as needed ” basis or Zoom as an alternative.   
 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:  Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, James Besarkarski, Vice-Chairman, 
Members:  Hans Wentrup, David Blatt, Patrick Callahan and Anthony Nicastro and Donald Gurney, Associate mem-
bers. Lisa Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board.  
  
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows:  
  
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-laws.  
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws.  
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General Laws, as 
amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or enforcement action from 
the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or other 
Administrative Official.  
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 
40B.  The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits submitted to the Board under 
Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.   These requests can, by law, circumvent local 
zoning ordinances.  
  
The office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, 
Lunenburg.  Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Tuesday and 
Thursday, closed Friday.  If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978 -582-
4146, ext 421 during regular business hours.Zoning Board applications are available in the office and online at 
www.lunenburgma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ritter Memorial Building  
 960 Massachusetts Avenue  
Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Phone:  978-582-4146  
Fax:  978-582-4353  
===PAGE 91===
91 
 
          AD HOC PEN SPACE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE PLANNING BOARD 
 
 
The Open Space Committee ’s efforts in FY24 principally focused on gaining a better understanding 
of the Town of Lunenburg ’s portfolio of vacant, undeveloped, “general municipal ” lands, and as-
sessing which of those properties may be repurposed more specifically to meet needs identified in 
the Town’s Open Space and Recreation Plan.   The Open Space Committee began discussions of the 
required 2027 update to the Open Space Plan.  
The Open Space Committee also reviewed several Chapter 61 withdrawal notifications this past year 
as part of the town’s defined multi-board process.   
The Open Space Committee continued to investigate two parcels on Lake Shirley held by the Town 
and reviewed them for possible lake access (cartop kayak and canoe launch) for Lunenburg residents 
and met with the Select Board and residents on this issue.  
 
Respectfully submitted,  
Michael Toohill, Chair  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 92===
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDUCATION  
===PAGE 93===
93 
 
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
Town Report 2024 
Superintendent’s Message 
I am grateful for the seven years I have been able to lead and serve the students, staff and families of the Lunenburg  
Public Schools.  I am very fortunate to have worked in partnership with the Lunenburg School Committee which has 
consistently held serving the best interests of the students as their main focus.  I am appreciative for the support of the 
Town Manager, Select Board and Finance Committee as we have worked to meet the educational needs of the children 
of Lunenburg.  
  
The district has remained focused on execution of the Strategy for Continuous Improvement, which is aligned with our 
Mission and Vision:  The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, 
and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and re-
warding lives.  
  
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to becoming a leader in education by focusing on its values of attending to 
the personal well-being of its students, providing high-quality curricula and student-centered instruction for deeper learn-
ing at all levels, and promoting the development of attributes and skills necessary for continuous learning for all.  
  
The Lunenburg School Committee approved the Strategy for Continuous Improvement in November 2019 and since 
then we have worked with intent to achieve our vision by putting the necessary infrastructure in place to support the well
-being and academic achievement of all students.    
  
Over the last six years, we adhered to our Strategy action plans, even through the pandemic.  At one time the Strategy 
had four overarching objectives and eleven action plans.  We worked in a focused way each year until the Strategy was 
reduced to one overarching objective and three action plans last year.  During the 2024-2025 school year, we have con-
tinued working on those plans.  One of the action plans focused on updating our core values to reflect the culture and 
commitment of our district.  In the fall of 2024, guided by Dr. Kalise Wornum, the Leadership Team began this initial 
work.    
 
Guided by the Strategy for Continuous Improvement since November 2019 and aided by federal and state grant funding, 
over the last six years the district was able to:  
• Add a curriculum leadership and instructional coaching  
• Increase district behavioral health staffing  
• Adopt a standards-aligned, rigorous on-grade-level curriculum in ELA/Literacy K-8, math K-8  
• Adopt a districtwide Tier 1 SEL curriculum  
• Implement district benchmark assessments in literacy and math  
• Use assessment data in order to determine need for intervention  
• Create an intervention model for academics and behavioral health  
• Create a referral process for intervention  
• Increase common planning time  
• Maintain class sizes under twenty-five  
• Create and execute a communication plan using consistent platforms districtwide  
  
As a result, we have seen improvement in student growth and achievement. We must stay the course in order to see more 
progress and improvement.  
  
The district has continued working to build a more inclusive culture in our schools.  In the fall of 2023, the district estab-
lished a Culture & Climate Advisory Council comprised of parents/guardians, staff and high school student representa-
tives.  This Council will help the district to foster increased family engagement in the education of their student.  In June 
2024, the Council presented the School Committee with a Family-School Compact, an overarching document that articu-
lates the roles of the student, parent/guardian, and educator in the education of each student.  During the 2024-2025 
school year, the Council will continue working with each school to create a document that “translates” the overarching 
Compact into a school specific document which outlines what the Compact looks, feels and sounds like in each 
school.  The Council will also review and recommend an evidence based anti-bullying curriculum for School Committee 
adoption, as well as conduct the biennial review of the district’s Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan.   
===PAGE 94===
94 
 
SUPERINTENDENT’S MESSAGE 
In the first half of FY24 as we began the FY25 budget cycle, we experienced significant challenges as the School De-
partment was without a School Business Manager and the Town Manger was without a Town Accountant/Director of 
Finance and Assistant Town Accountant.  This was further complicated by an upgrade to the Town’s financial manage-
ment platform, MUNIS.  Challenges continued with a widening gap between the available local budget funding and in-
creasing operational costs.  Through the FY25 budget cycle the School Committee and school administration worked 
with the Town Manager, Finance Committee and Select Board to find a way to fund a bare bones needs-based budg-
et.  However, with the support of invested parents/guardians, members of the Select Board and Finance Committee, and 
Lunenburg residents an override for the schools was passed.  As a result, the district only lost ten positions due to the sun 
setting of COVID era grants.  While we are extremely grateful for the override, the override did not provide a longer 
term solution to the fundamental issue; incoming revenues are not keeping pace with operational costs.  Therefore, the 
Select Board created a Budget Task Force with a representative from the School Committee, Finance Committee, Select 
Board, as well as the Town Manager, Superintendent, and Finance Directors from the school department and the 
town.  The Task Force worked July through December 2024 to review the town’s financial situation and bring forth rec-
ommendations to improve the town’s financial outlook.  While recommendations were brought forward and may result 
in some additional revenue, there were no recommendations that would vastly change available revenue for operational 
budgets moving forward.  
  
The School Committee and school administration has also maintained a focus on the aging Turkey Hill Elementary 
School.  In FY2,  a study to assess the current condition of the building was funded.  By April 2025, we will have a re-
port with projected costs for all projects required to bring the building into code and ADA compliance.  The report will 
be used to inform decisions regarding the future of the Turkey Hill Elementary School.    
  
Over the last seven years, we have utilized all available resources and worked with intent to impact student achievement 
and overall well-being in the years immediately following the COVID years and beyond.  We have remained true to the 
Strategy for Continuous Improvement and have seen improved outcomes over the last two years.  However, if we expect 
to see continued improvement in student achievement, proper staffing levels and curriculum resources are neces-
sary.  This will be one of our greatest challenges in the next several years as grant funding sources have waned and re-
volving accounts are no longer sufficient to support operational costs in any meaningful way.  
 
I will be retiring in June 2025 bringing a career as an educator spanning thirty-eight years to a close.  I am grateful to 
have been so lucky as to have the opportunity to lead the Lunenburg Public Schools.  I want to express my heart-felt 
gratitude to the Lunenburg School Committee for trusting me to take their priorities and hopes for the district and make 
them a reality.  I must also acknowledge and thank our dedicated faculty and staff for their professionalism, flexibility, 
and hard work.  Without the commitment and effort of every member of our staff we would not have seen more equita-
ble, meaningful, and impactful changes benefitting every student’s learning experience in Lunenburg.  Collectively we 
have been dedicated to and focused on our overarching objectives in order to provide a quality education for the children 
of Lunenburg.  So much good work has been done, but there is much more to do.  I trust the Lunenburg School Commit-
tee with find a new Superintendent who will be equally committed to the work.  
  
Each year I conclude my report with the announcement of the Superintendent’s Award.  I am pleased to announce 
Cashel Daly as the recipient of the 2025 Superintendent’s Award.   In addition to many academic achievements, includ-
ing National Honor Society membership, Cashel has enjoyed his time as a Scout, member of the LHS cross country 
team, and as a volunteer for the Lunenburg Community Food Pantry and Bright Eyed, a local non-profit providing week-
end meal kits for school-age children dealing with food insecurity.  Cashel intends to study history and hopes to be a his-
torian.  He particularly enjoys study of the U.S. presidents.  Not surprisingly his favorite quote is one from Theodore 
Roosevelt, “It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed.”   
 
Respectfully submitted,  
Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent   
===PAGE 95===
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
School Facilities Department 
 
Lunenburg has made significant progress on capital planning projects and preventative maintenance needs.  
Capital Program  
 
The following projects have been completed or are underway:  
 
1. LMHS Turf Field Feasibility Study- Collins Engineering was contracted for ($50,000) to review the turf field area 
and recommended alternatives to improve drainage conditions. The middle/high school area near the turf, a concrete 
Bin Block retaining wall at the metal bleachers which supports the press box, a concrete masonry unit retaining wall, 
a paver block walkway, and the playing field and track area, as well as the immediate surrounding areas were con-
sidered. Findings of this study recommended improvements to the concrete Bin Block, CMU retaining wall, and re-
grading the lower grass open area with cost estimates at $920,000.  
2. Lunenburg Primary School Mini-Split Project- Completed during the summer of 2024, allowing for 6 Condensing 
Units feeding 12 classrooms on the second floor to be installed at a cost of $232,800. At this point, these units pro-
vide cooling in the warmer months in a more energy efficient way and reduce heat load/stressors on the building. In 
the fall of 2024, a LPS district team supported by Lunenburg Green Communities submitted a grant application to 
pursue additional funding to install the remaining LPS classrooms with mini-split units. Once both phases are com-
pleted, units can be used to optimize heating and cooling throughout the building. These units are eligible for energy 
rebates from Unitil. Added electrical costs for operation will be offset to some degree by solar net metering credits. 
3. Window Safety Film was applied to Turkey Hill Elementary School ($33,569) and the Lunenburg Middle High 
School ($33,250).  Benefits of both projects 1) create a barrier that does not allow window glass to immediately shat-
ter; 2) decrease solar glare into the rooms thus decreasing the heat load while decreasing cooling costs (where appli-
cable).  
 

===PAGE 96===
96 
 
4. Turkey Hill Study for Renovation and Assessments and Schematic Design ($275,000) is expected to be completed by   
May 1, 2025. Findings and recommendations will be provided by CSS Architects in a thorough report with estimated 
costs. Drawings, photos, schematics, and concept plans will be in the final report to explain and illustrate proposed reno-
vation /repair /reconstruction solutions that would allow Turkey Hill to meet MEP/FP and ADA requirements.  
The Fire Alarm Upgrade Project ($322,240) is under contract with work planned for the summer of 2025.   
 
5. The district has completed purchase of a Utility Pick-Up Truck with Plow ($64,780) through the McGovern Dealer-
ship in Marlborough which will replace an existing truck with extensive repair needs.   
 
6. Upgrades for Security Systems (LPS/THES) and Exterior Doors (THES) have been placed out to bid, and the district 
is evaluating next steps based on cost.  
 
Preventative Maintenance  
 
The custodial team is working diligently to attend to preventative maintenance needs. Some of our more time consuming 
tasks have required significant attention to HVAC needs within each building that include regular inspections and allo-
cating funds for supplies as well as contracted services. Due to rising costs associated with transportation, material avail-
ability, and labor, our operations and maintenance budget is continuously challenged to meet facility needs.   
 
Respectfully submitted,   
Susan Gilson, Ph.D.  
Director of Administration and Finance  
  
  
 
Town Report 2024  
Lunenburg Public Schools IT Review  
  
The Lunenburg Public Schools Information Technology (IT) Department played a critical role in addressing the technol-
ogy needs both inside and outside of the classroom. The Department also focused heavily on compliance for E911 on the 
phone systems. The following projects were completed as part of an emphasis on E911 compliance:  
  
1. Re-cabling the Turkey Hill Elementary School. This upgrade from CAT5 cabling allowed an increase in the overall 
network speeds as well as support for a phone system.  
2. Installation of a new phone system and phones in every room at the Turkey Hill Elementary School. This helped get 
Turkey Hill Elementary School in line with multiple E911 compliance laws by having phones which can dial out in eve-
ry instructional area.  
3. Phone server CPU upgrades at both the Lunenburg Middle High School and the Lunenburg Primary School.  
4. Switch to SIP Trunking phone plan which will finish the compliance in which every phone has the ability to call out 
and the emergency personnel will receive both the building as well as the room number of the caller.  
  
Solutions supporting cyber safety were also addressed this year. PhishID Phishing Protection was implemented which 
scans and detects malicious login pages for staff. The district also implemented KnowB4 which sends out phishing simu-
lation emails as well as weekly and monthly cyber tips to all staff members to help protect against cyber criminals.  
  
Technology continued to be a prevalent tool in the classroom. In response, the district continued to support devices for 
each student by providing new devices to 6th and 9th graders as well as introducing new devices in grades k-5 to replace 
end of life equipment.  
  
The IT Department continued to manage and respond to all help desk requests with an extra focus on following best 
practices, student technology usage and excellent customer service. The team will continue to direct efforts towards im-
proving end-user experience and protecting the district’s technology environment from potential cyber threats in the new 
year.  
  
Respectfully submitted,  
Information Technology  
  
===PAGE 97===
97 
 
SPECIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
Town Report – FY24 (data taken from 2023-2024 school year)   
 
From the March 1, 2024 report (SIMS Report 5 -Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), there are 242 students with disabilities 
receiving special education or related services in Lunenburg (last year there were 228).   This represents 15.5% of our total stu dent 
population of 1,566 students (it was 14.6% last year).   The state average from the 2023 -2024 elected Populations Report (data wa s 
last updated on Feb. 22, 2024) (https://profiles.doe.mass.edu/statereport/selectedpopulations.aspx) is 20.2%.   From the March 1,  
2024 report (SIMS Report 7-SPED Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), the total number of students receiving services outside 
the district was 8 (last year was 7).  Of the 8 students, 4 are placed in Collaborative Placements, 3 are in Day Placements and 1 are in 
Residential Placements.  Our Advanced Community Experience Program (ACE), which serves students ages 18 -22 years old, had 7 
students enrolled last year.  Additionally, from the March 1, 2024 report, 119 students identified with a disability received ac commo-
dations via 504 plans in Lunenburg (last year was 155).  
For the 2024 school year, our Accountability Overall Classification was “not requiring assistance or intervention ”.  The reason for 
this classification was “Substantial Progress Towards Targets ” at 60% (last year it was 57%).   This data can be found at the DESE 
website:   
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5&   
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole Special Services Depart-
ment.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each year.   For our Indicators, the following infor-
mation is available below and also can be found at: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000&   
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. The state target for Students with IEPs was 78.33% (was 77.33% last year). Lunenburg ’s rate was 
61.9% (was 66.7% last year) and the overall state rate was 80.4% (was 82.1% last year) for Students with IEPs.     
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  The state target for Students with IEPs was 12.97% (was 13.4% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students 
with IEPs was “Suppressed” due to enrollment counts fewer than 6 (it was 11.1% last year) and the overall state rate was 13.6% (was 
11.4% last year).    
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS -Alt. “In Massachusetts the highest possible score on the MCAS -
Alt, the state's alternate assessment, is Progressing. Therefore, the data reported in the SPP/APR for the "Number of Childre n with 
IEPs Scoring At or Above Proficient Against Alternate Academic Achievement Standards is zero '0'” District-level data on the per-
formance of all students with IEPs on MCAS-Alt is available at:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/achievement_alt_level.aspx?linkid=116&orgcode=01620000&fycode=2023&orgtypecode=5    
  
Indicator 4 - Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.   For Lunenburg, our rate was 0.0% (last year it w as 
0.0%).  The state rate was .1%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rat es by 
race or ethnicity.  In 2022 (most current data available), Lunenburg was not found to have any significant discrepancies due to these 
factors.   
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2022 -2023, the state’s rates are as follows:   for Full 
Inclusion of students = 67.2%, Partial Inclusion = 13.0%, Substantially Separate Placements = 13.2%, and for Separate Schools /
Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 6.6%.   In Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:   Full Inclusion = 72.0%, Parti al 
= 11.7%, Substantially Separate = 14.0% and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 2.3%.    
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3 -5 with IEPs.   The 2022-202 state rates showed the percent of students 
receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full Inclusion early childhood program was 50.2%, i n a Par-
tial Inclusion Program was 17.4%, a Substantially Separate Placement (special education class, separate school, or residentia l facili-
ty) was 21.1%, and students not attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, P T) was 
11.2%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 33.3%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 9.5%, Substantially Se parate 
rate was 57.1%, and Related Services was 0%.   
Indicator 7 – Early Childhood Outcomes.   Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as part of a 4 year cycle in which they 
report exit data on children for whom they have collected entry level data; exit may occur at any time during the subsequent three 
year period as the children leave the preschool program.  Lunenburg ’s 2022-2023 cohort reporting year results are   suppressed for 
districts reporting 10 or fewer students.   
===PAGE 98===
98 
 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special education who report that 
school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results for students with IEPs.   For 2022-2023 the state 
target was 89.5%.  Lunenburg’s rate was 7.3% and the state’s rate was 10.7% (from information collected in the Spring of 2022).   
 
Indicator 9 & 10 - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special Education Catego-
ries.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in either case.    
 
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   This indicator measures the % of children with parental consent to evaluate, who were 
evaluated within the State established timeline (2017-2018). Data is reported for all initial evaluations initiated in October, Novem-
ber, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 90% in compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 
100%.   
 
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, found eligible for special 
education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third birthdays. The state target for this indicat or in 
100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppressed” (last school year reviewed was 2017-18). Data is suppressed if the number of stu-
dents referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is fewer than 10.   
 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 100%.  This indicator measures the % 
of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that includes appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually u pdat-
ed and based upon an age appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will reasonably ena-
ble the student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's transition services needs.   Lunenburg 
was last reviewed in this area in 2017-2018 and was 83.3% in compliance.   
 
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students with IEPs who exited high 
school during the 2022-2023 school year and self-reported post-school engagement in education or employment one year after leav-
ing high school. Engagement is defined through three measurements:   
 
Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.    
 
Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high school.   
 
Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training program; or competitively e m-
ployed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high school.   
 
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post -secondary activity one 
year after leaving high school. For the 2022-2023 school year, state targets for the three measurements of Post-School Outcomes are 
Measurement A: 36.9%; Measurement B: 70.4%; and Measurement C: 77%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows (from reporting year 
2022-2023):  Measurement A = 28.57%, Measurement B =57.14%, and Measurement C = 71.43%.     
 
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support group for parents, teachers an d 
administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, which currently consists of parents of students receiving  
Title I services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are currently being held monthly, 6pm, via Zoom and/or in per-
son.  The executive board is made up of a Chairperson: Cheri Cordella.   
 
For more information, go to: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department -directory/special-services/pacsal?
authuser=0  In addition to the district PACSAL, Lunenburg also participates in a Regional SEPAC group.   Information from this 
group is on Facebook at “Regional SEPAC – Central MA”   
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to meet the varying needs of our studen ts in 
the least restrictive environment. We have an experienced, hard working staff that works together with parents to provide the se var-
ied services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to develop challenging and focused educational programs for chil-
dren.  We remain committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools mission, “The mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide 
all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, 
active citizenship, and rewarding lives.” We are proud of our staff, students, and families and their collaboration and dedication to 
meet the needs of all students.       
 
For additional information, please visit our website at: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department -directory/
special-services, or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts Ave, (9 78) 
582-4100, ext. 5223.  
  
Respectfully Submitted,  
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services  
===PAGE 99===
99 
 
 
TEACHING & LEARNING MODELS AND PD UPDATE  
Town Report 2024  
 
Teaching and learning is at the center of all of our work. This past year, we worked diligently to provide high-quality 
curricular materials and instruction to students, provide strategic interventions and challenges to our learners, and to pro-
vide professional development opportunities for our educators to support their efforts.  
Providing educators with high quality, evidence based, and inclusive curricular materials is a priority for the state of 
Massachusetts’ Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) and for our district.  Access to these types 
of curricular materials can  “prompt improvement in student outcomes” as evidenced by research.  To this end in 2023-
2024, educators:  
 implemented the second year of our new English language arts and math curriculums, HMH Into Reading and Into 
Math, at grades K-5.   HMH online professional development was provided on both the platform and content. Pro-
fessional Learning Community (PLC) meetings occurred to review assessment data, make adjustments to instruc-
tional practice based on the data, improve instruction through coaching and modeling, and module planning based on 
priority standards.  
 began implementation of Amplify, our new middle school language arts curriculum. Educators taught all of the mod-
ules at least once and  made adjustments and refinements to practice.  The specific focus in the first year was looking 
at each of the program components and determining which were best implemented through the online platform, and 
which were better to do on paper or through the use of Amplify’s supplemental materials that supported the curricu-
lum. Additional work was done on pacing to ensure that the critical units were taught and mastered.  
 completed a process for selecting a new high-quality math program for our middle school as well as developed an 
implementation process. Middle school math teachers created the criteria by which they would select a new math 
program. Once that document was finalized, a curriculum review of all high-quality middle school math programs 
was completed in PLC meetings. Three programs were selected for a pilot of one month each, using all components 
of the program’s units. Grade levels documented their feedback and a group meeting was held to discuss the merits 
of each program. It was unanimously decided to choose the EdGems program based on its quality, and combination 
of differentiated online and paper content that was easily accessible to teachers and students.  
 
MTSS  
A multi-tiered system of support (MTSS) was implemented at Lunenburg Primary and Turkey Hill Elementary School. 
The key components of MTSS include universal screening and progress monitoring tools: a process to analyze data, plan 
for interventions, and monitor student progress; a tiered system of support where every student receives core instruction 
and some students receive strategic or intensive instruction; and a collaborative team-based approach. In short , MTSS is 
a way of doing things within the schools that impacts every student. At each school, teams of educators came together to 
plan for and check student growth.  They worked with our literacy and math specialists to analyze multiple data points so 
that strategic and intensive interventions for support and/or enrichment were provided.  Student progress was monitored 
and adjustments were made as necessary.  
Lunenburg Public Schools utilizes multiple assessments to evaluate student achievement and growth. Students in grades 
K-8 completed a fall, winter and spring iReady assessment in both reading and mathematics and the personalized learn-
ing platforms through iReady provided differentiated instruction, systematic practice, and scaffolded feedback in both 
reading and mathematics. The  Dynamic Indicators of Basic Literacy Skills (DIBELS)  is used in grades K-3 to deter-
mine how students are performing on the critical skills necessary for reading: phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, 
vocabulary, and comprehension. In mathematics grades K-5,  the Forefront Universal Screener for Number Sense was 
used to determine students' early numeracy competency.   
Structured common planning time for teachers in grade level continued for grades K-8.  Our district literacy coaches met 
with teachers during common planning time to support curriculum development and help foster student growth.  High 
school department heads structured department meeting time to facilitate the necessary curriculum work needed to move 
each department forward and improve learning for students.   
 
PD Focus  
For professional development, we worked with Dr. Kalise Wornum, owner of KW diversity.  Dr. Wornam provided dis-
trict staff with multiple sessions on cultural competence; we received positive feedback around the impact of this work 
on educators’ planning and instruction, and plan to have Dr. Wornum return next year to focus more specifically on Cul-
turally Responsive Practices: Teacher Moves.   
===PAGE 100===
100 
 
 
PD Focus  
We also worked to improve inclusion and safety for our LGBTQ students.  Students in our Gender and Sexuality Alliance (GSA) 
club at LHS presented to district staff during the November PD Day and also answered a myriad of questions. The District also  
brought Landon Callahan from DESE’s Safe Schools for LGBTQ Students who presented to our staff in grades 6 -12.  
 
PD also took the form of participating in the Department of Elementary and Secondary (DESE) Academies. The Lunenburg Public 
School District participated in the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) Literacy Academy, the Inclusive Practices Academy 
(based on the Universal Design for Learning), and the Social Emotional and Behavioral Academy (SEB)   All three academies provid-
ed coaching sessions and technical assistance and assisted our district with creating action plans.   
 
After-School  
We continued with our After School Program at Turkey Hill Elementary School, Lunenburg Middle School, and Lunenburg High 
School.  The program provided targeted support in literacy and mathematics in addition to academic support for students ’ current 
classes and with executive functioning skills.   
 
Grants  
We continued to review and pursue grant opportunities presented by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
(DESE). In this school year, the Lunenburg Public School District received the Student Opportunity Act - Evidence-Based Practice 
Grant, the Arts and Cultural Vitality Index Grant, the Deeper Learning Grant, and the Accelerating Literacy Grant for FY24.  
  
Respectfully Submitted,  
Dr. Deborah Bookis  
Director of Teaching & Learning  
 
===PAGE 101===
101 
 
LUNENBURG SCHOOL FOOD SERVICE 
 
Food Service Director  
Nadine Lorenzen  
  
Cook/Managers  
John Terho  
Elin Forgues  
Marlene Aubuchon-Hoaglund  
  
General workers  
Eleni Tsiakalos  
Danielle Leblanc  
Vanessa Cole  
Jessica McCarthy  
Jennifer Cotoni  
Jewel Healy  
Kathy Dunlop  
Jessica Ouellette  
Jennifer Pasciuti  
Carol Jones  
Morgan Joslin  
  
Lunenburg Public Schools food service participates in the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program. 
As part of this program, our schools offer healthy meals every school day. The Commonwealth is supplementing National 
School Lunch Program funds to ensure all students have access to healthy school meals in Massachusetts, regardless of house-
hold income. Universal free meal has led to the growth in participation in our program. Students are able to participate with out 
the worry of overtly being identified as low income.   
  
LINQ Nutrition Software implemented in August 2024 provides menu planning and nutrition analysis. The food service program 
uses LINQ Connect for Point of sale including student and staff account payment/management.      
Lunenburg School Lunch Program continues to participate in Harvest of the month promoting a different Massachusetts -
produced food each month in our cafeterias.  We collaborated with Fairview Orchards a small family farm located in Groton, 
Massachusetts. A third generation run business, with a mission to bring local fresh fruit to schools in their community and sur-
rounding areas. The students and staff have enjoyed the delicious apples from Fairview Orchids. We hope to continue this part-
nership with Fairview for many years.  
  
We welcome new employees to our team Jessica Ouellette, Jennifer Pasciuti, Carol Jones and Morgan Joslin   
  
Respectfully Submitted,  
Nadine Lorenzen  
Food Service Director  
  
 
===PAGE 102===
102 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL 
 
Lunenburg Primary School is a student -focused early childhood learning school dedicated to serving children from 
preschool through grade 2. With students ranging in age from three to eight years old, we are committed to fostering a 
nurturing and inclusive environment where each child’s academic, social, and emotional growth is supported.  
Our school community consists of students, families, teachers, instructional staff, and support personnel who 
collaborate to ensure that every child’s individual needs are met. By focusing on the whole development of each 
student, we strive to cultivate not only strong academic skills but also essential social and emotional competencies that 
will serve them throughout their educational journey and beyond. At Lunenburg Primary School, we continue to create 
a welcoming, enriching atmosphere where all children feel valued and encouraged to reach their full potential. We 
look forward to another year of growth, learning, and community together.   
As of October 1, 2024, Lunenburg Primary School reported a total student enrollment of 382 students to the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. This includes 49 preschool students who attend various half-day 
sessions, across two classrooms. The school also serves Kindergarten through second grade, with the following 
enrollment breakdown:  
• Kindergarten: 110 students distributed across five classrooms, with class sizes ranging from 21 to 23 students per 
class.  
• Grade 1: 109 students, also across five classrooms, with class sizes ranging from 18 to 22 students.  
• Grade 2: 114 students, distributed across five classrooms, with class sizes ranging from 22 to 25 students.  
This structure ensures that each grade level is supported by dedicated classroom spaces, allowing for an optimal 
learning environment for our students. We are proud to provide a strong foundation for academic growth and 
development at Lunenburg Primary School.  
 
At Lunenburg Primary School, our professional development efforts have been focused on enhancing inclusive 
practices and refining our instructional strategies. Central to this is our continued use of the HMH Into Reading and 
Into Math curricula, which guide our approach to literacy and mathematics instruction. Common Planning Time 
remains a priority in our building schedule, enabling teachers to collaborate, analyze student performance data, and 
align instructional practices to meet student needs effectively. We have also leveraged consultants and district 
curriculum coordinators to support our teaching staff in developing evidence-based instruction and fostering a 
consistent learning experience across grade levels.  In addition to academic growth, we place a strong emphasis on 
cultivating a positive, inclusive, and supportive school culture. Our staff consistently works to create an environment 
where all students feel valued and empowered.  
===PAGE 103===
103 
 
We continue to implement the Responsive Classroom model in every classroom to foster a sense of community and  pro-
mote social-emotional learning. Furthermore, we have continued with our use of Positive Behavioral Interventions and 
Supports (PBIS), a research-backed, tiered framework designed to improve student outcomes by integrating data, sys-
tems, and practices that positively impact student behavior and engagement.   
One of the highlights of our school culture is the monthly themes we introduce for both students and staff to explore to-
gether. These themes serve as a foundation for discussions and activities that promote growth and reflection. Additional-
ly, through our collaboration with our School Resource Officer (SRO) and his emotional support canine, Hank, we con-
tinue with the Hank’s Helper awards. These awards recognize students who consistently demonstrate kindness, respect, 
and helpfulness to others in the school community. During our monthly assemblies, students are also selected to have 
"Snack with the Principal," a special opportunity for small groups of students to share their experiences and connect with 
the leadership team in a more personal setting. Through these initiatives, we are dedicated to fostering an environment 
that supports both academic achievement and the development of character, ensuring that all students feel supported, 
recognized, and valued in their educational journey.  
Lunenburg Primary School is a Title One school, and we are committed to providing all students with the support they 
need to succeed. To ensure that every child has access to the services and resources they require, we have continued to 
refine our tiered instructional system. As part of this system, we conduct common assessments in the fall, winter, and 
spring for all students in grades K-2 in the areas of reading and math. These assessments help us monitor the effective-
ness of our instruction and track the progress of each student. By using data from these assessments, we are able to iden-
tify struggling students early and provide targeted interventions through our Multi-Tiered Support System (MTSS).  
Our MTSS approach ensures that students receive the right level of support based on their individual needs. This in-
cludes specialized interventions in reading, math, speech, and occupational therapy. Additionally, the MTSS model ex-
tends to social-emotional support for students who may need assistance in managing their emotions or behaviors. For 
these students, we work closely with our Behavioral Health Support Team, which offers targeted interventions and strat-
egies to help them succeed both academically and socially. By using a comprehensive and data-driven approach, we aim 
to ensure that all students at Lunenburg Primary School are equipped with the tools and support necessary to thrive in 
their educational journey.  
The Lunenburg Primary School Council meets monthly to address school-related concerns and provide guidance to the 
principal. As an advisory group, the council plays a key role in reviewing the school building budget and contributing to 
the development of the school improvement plan.  
The members of the Council for the 2024-2025 school year are as follows:  
• Principal: Carla Squier  
• Assistant Principal: Michael Smith  
• Teachers: Kirsten Snape, Nicole Bienvenu,   
• Parents: Gretchen Moscon, Janet Winer  
• School Committee Representative: Brian Lehtinen  
This diverse group of individuals brings a variety of perspectives and expertise to the table, ensuring that decisions are 
made in the best interest of the school community and its students. The Primary School Council continues to collaborate 
in support of the school’s mission to provide a positive and effective learning environment for all students.  
We are truly grateful for the opportunity to work alongside our highly dedicated district-wide colleagues and a caring 
community to provide the best possible educational opportunities for our youngest students. The support and collabora-
tion we receive from our families, staff, and community partners continue to make a meaningful difference in the lives of 
our students. For more information about the work we do at Lunenburg Primary School, please visit our website: https://
sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/  
 
Respectfully submitted,  
Carla Squier, Principal  
===PAGE 104===
104 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL STAFF ROSTER   
Carla Squier - Principal    2A - PLC/ meeting room  
Mike Smith - Asst. Principal    2B - Julie Hudson - Teacher  
Krissy Carbone - Admin Secty   2C - Sara Kenney - Teacher  
Chelsea Drake - Nurse    2D - Nicole Bienvenu - Teacher  
Vi-Anne Brown- Counselor / LCSW   2E - Brittany Gibbons -Teacher  
Eileen Ahern - Psychologist    2F - Melissa Bourgeois-Teacher  
Karen Tata - Office Clerk       
     Michelle Withers - Kindergarten  
Jessica Coelho- Teacher    Karen Turley - Sped Para  
Patti McColl - Para    Michelle Welton - Grade 1  
Cailey Powell- Para    Julie Drake - Sped Para  
Mari Braithwaite - Para    Laura Refrigeri - Grade 2  
Jennifer Hochard - Teacher     Kaitlin Clement - Sp.Ed Para  
Shannon Loughlin - Para       
Candis Doucette - Para       
     Steven Ludtke- PE  
     Heidi Quinlivan- Art  
Brittany Pepoli - ACH Teacher   Debra DiFruscia- Music  
Melissa Nolan - Para    Tara Bastien STEM  
Sherry Williams - Para    Erin Mack- Library/Media  
Kristen Kosteki- Para       
Alyssa Mulone- Para       
Charlotte LaRieviere - Para         
Alexis Wasiuk - TLC Teacher     Nancy Murray / Gabrielle LeTarte  
Maureen Dupuis - Para    Nicole Vautour - Tutor  
Skye Abreu- Para       
Courtnay La Venture- Para       
Kelsey Bertram- Para       
Kirstin Lind- Para    Mary Sieling - Speech  
Sarah Call- Para    Sue Richards - Phys. Therap  
      
  
===PAGE 105===
105 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL STAFF ROSTER   
     Jayne Dusek - COTA  
     Maggie Porpora - Occup Therap.  
K1 - Kirsten Snape - Teacher    TBD - BCBA  
K2 - Carly Surrette - Teacher    Elena Oksanish - Speech  
K3 - Allison Doherty - Teacher       
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher      
K6 - Amy Raffaele - Teacher      
       
1A - Michael Courtemanche     Cafeteria  
1B - Patti Kilcommins    Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager  
1C - Kara Slattery     Jessica McCarthy / Carol Jones  
1D - Christa Palma        
1E - Jackie Favreau    Custodians  
 ELL Teachers                                    Jose Marcial Allende  
Meredith Weiss    Zach St. Jean /  Alex Brewer  
Emily Ribble       
Technology                                     SRO  
Jordan Pochini     Kam Munroe  
Emily McLaughlin       
  
  
===PAGE 106===
106 
 
TURKEY HILL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School is an elementary school serving students in third grade through fifth grade.  In the fall of 
2024, Turkey Hill Elementary School welcomed  345 enrolled students. There are five sections of grade 3, grade 4, and 
grade 5.  Grade 3 has 125 students. Grade 4 has 106 students and Grade 5 has 114 students.  
 
Our unified arts areas include physical education, art, music, library, and STEM. We are also served by a full time assis-
tant principal, full time nurse, a psychologist, a full time adjustment counselor/social worker and a guidance counse-
lor,  and 21 full time teachers.  Other support personnel who work across the district include an ELA coach, a Math 
coach, a director of teaching and learning, two EL teachers, a speech and language pathologist, BCBA, OT, and PT.  In 
addition, we have one interventionist tutors providing targeted support for small groups of students.   
 
Staff continually work on the development of the whole child by supporting students' development and growth in the 
areas of social emotional learning, literacy, math, social studies and science.  We are able to meet student needs with the 
support of the district curriculum of teaching and learning and the two coaches which enables teachers to have the op-
portunity to meet at grade levels to develop and provide evidence based instruction, common learning experiences, stu-
dent data analysis  and share effective teaching strategies to support student academic growth.  Students continue to have 
benchmark assessments three times throughout the school year (beginning, middle and end of year) that are used to help 
us celebrate students’ academic growth and effort.   The data provided by these assessments also helps refine our focus 
for interventions.    
This fall our fifth grade students had their annual trip to Nature's classroom. It was a successful week with good weather, 
community building, and the creation of fond memories of a unique time together, thanks to the combined efforts of our 
entire fifth grade staff.  
We held an in-person open house in September. It was a well-attended event and for many parents their first opportunity 
to be physically present in our building.  It was accompanied by a book fair facilitated by our librarian, Mrs. Macnama-
ra. Parent conferences in January offered both in person and virtual options and appointments were fully booked within 
a few days.   
We held our annual Penny Wars fundraiser, it was a huge success and the money raised will be put toward the purchase 
and installation of a shared structure in our playing field.  As always, our PTO assisted in the weeklong collection. We 
could not be successful without their efforts. We were able to bring back a fifth grade band and all students will be per-
forming in an upcoming spring concert under the direction of our music teacher, Mr. Anthony Balester.  The courtyard/
outdoor learning space was further refined with new stone and handicap access thanks to community and PTO dona-
tions. Turkey Hill also held its annual Turkey Trot in November.  Led by Mr. S. Ludtke, the turkey trot was a wonderful 
experience.   
 
The Turkey Hill School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns.  Serving as an advisory group to 
the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and developing the school improvement 
plan.    
 
Members of the Council for the 2023-2024 school year are:  
Principal:  Norman Yvon  
Assistant Principal: Bethann Cormier  
Teachers:  Kate Robinson, Rhonda Connery  
Parents:  Matthew Brenner, Laura Brothers, Elizabeth Noyes  
School Committee Rep:   Laura Brzozoski  
Our school’s success relies upon the combined and collaborative efforts of our wonderful staff, parents, and community 
members.  We continue to seek out opportunities to engage and effectively communicate with our families. .  I am hon-
ored to be chosen as your principal.  
For more information about the work that we do at the Turkey Hill Elementary School please visit our website: https://
sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/thms/welcome  
Respectfully submitted,  
Norman P. Yvon, Principal  
===PAGE 107===
107 
 
 

===PAGE 108===
108 
 
 

===PAGE 109===
109 
 
LUNENBURG MIDDLE SCHOOL 
 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support students’ 
social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated, creative, lifelong learner 
in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest communication.   The dedicated and ac-
complished staff of professionals within the school embraces the philosophy of educating the whole child academically, 
socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by which all students become positive community members that 
possess the skills to be successful in high school and beyond.  
Lunenburg Middle School is a co-located middle - high school serving grades six through eight. Our effective, student 
centered middle school embraces interdisciplinary teams of teachers that enable teachers to work with smaller groups of 
students. Smaller groups of students allow teachers to learn and engage students in their preferred learning style, making 
them more confident and successful.  
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of different inter-
ests and talents through special areas and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities. One of our goals is for stu-
dents to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue exploring as they move through high school 
and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for students that foster critical thinking and problem solving 
skills that prepare them for high school and beyond or where their passion may lead them to.  
Our grade eight team of teachers continue to implement a schedule that mirrors the high school schedule. Our philoso-
phy is to ease the difficult transition from middle school to the first year of high school by developing student’s inde-
pendent skills they will require to be successful in high school. Grade eight teachers function as one inclusive team 
where students take classes with a variety of different teachers as they would in a high school setting. This differs from 
our two interdisciplinary team of teachers that have been a successful model in grades six and seven.      
LMS continues to utilize the i-Ready diagnostic to provide an additional tool to assess students’ skills in addition to 
classroom instruction.  Parents will be provided fall, winter and spring benchmark assessment reports created by i- ready 
so they too can monitor student progress.           
Lunenburg Middle School has benefited from a top notch guidance support team. A guidance counselor and a school 
social worker coupled with our shared school psychologist has been able to provide a high level of social emotional sup-
port to our students and their families. Our guidance team has been able to meet the needs of our students while prepar-
ing them to be available for academic learning.   
Spring MCAS Score 
      % Meeting or Exceeding            % State Expectations                                 
Grade 6 ELA                            49                                              40                            
Grade 6 Math                         52                                              40 
Grade 7 ELA                            38                                              36 
Grade 7 Math                         52                                              37 
Grade 8 ELA                            41                                              43 
Grade 8 Math                         41                                              38 
Grade 8 Sci/Tech/Eng           51                                              39 
2022 Spring MCAS testing at LMS show the percentage of students who scored in the “ meeting or Exceeding” category 
and then the column next to it shows our scores in comparison with the state scores in schools who service similar grade 
levels. As you can see, even with the effects of the pandemic, LMS scores are above the state percentage in six out of the 
seven areas tested. In grade 8 Science Technology and Engineering our scores are over 20 points higher than the state 
average, an impressive number. We look forward to what 2023 scores will indicate after the specific interventions we 
have put in place for students to be successful. 
===PAGE 110===
110 
 
Athletics and Clubs 
LMS successfully participated in middle school Field Hockey and Boys and Girls Cross Country and this winter we 
will continue with middle school basketball after many years of it being eliminated. The opportunities middle school 
sports provides to students to participate, learn and become part of an effective team atmosphere is immeasurable. 
Science Olympiad, Drama Club, Yearbook Club and middle school Student Government return as favorite activities 
for students to engage in. Student Government continues to provide opportunities for students to engage in age 
appropriate extracurricular activities like dances, spirit weeks and movie nights.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that ensure student 
success and promote a passion for lifelong learning. The key components to our success continue to be our talented 
faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community who support our teaching and 
learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learning. Together we continue to 
make the difference in the lives of students.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
Tim Santry, Principal 
Administration:                                  6th Grade:  
Santry, Timothy – LMHS Principal  Arsenault, Beth DH  
McGrath, Robert – LMS Assistant Principal  Clarke, Emily  
Carpenter-Bowen, Mona – MS Secretary  Reardon, Susan  
                                                                   Pouliot, Melanie  
Guidance: Middle School                                 Gaines, Nancy  
LaBelle, Katherine - Grades 7 & 8                           Gardner, Andrea   
Gray, Sydney - Grade 6                                  7th Grade:  
Saranich, Carol (Speech)     Bertoni, Meagan  
Shea, Lori (Psychologist)   Sheasgreen, Tim  
Tata, Toni  (LMS Social Worker)   Diamantopoulas, Krista DH  
Young, Mary (Behaviorist)        Grebinar, Dawn  
 
Health Office:                 Putnam, Miranda  
McGuire, Katie (nurse)    
Scott, Kelly (LPN)   8th Grade:   
                                                                                       Rios, Jen    
Achieve: Middle School   Notaro, Alma  
Moore, Jamie     Cormier, Meredith  
Catalina, Christine (para)   Rooney, Nicole  
Donovan, Megan(para)   Leblanc, Lisa  
Sicard, Tricia (para)                                  Lafontaine, Renee  
Bulger, Alyssa   
===PAGE 111===
111 
 
Ouellette, Jen(para)    
Miller, Tony (para)     
Lane, Sharon (para)     
Specialists: Middle School    
Therrien, Nicole (PE)    
 Marrazzo, Matthew (PE)    
Sheldon, Geoffrey (Music) MS   Technology IT:  
Buiwit, Heather (Tech) MS   Coxall, Brent  
Warren, Robin (Art) MS     
Vallee, Pam (Library)   Cafeteria:  
                                                                   Terho, John  
Special Ed. Middle School:    
Lizek, Maura 6th DH   Nano, Kirsti(para)   
Klingler, Terry (para)   Russell, Jessica(para)   
Barone, Judy (para)    Ouellette, Jen(para)  
Mobley, Melanie 7th   Staffiere, Rebecca(para)   
Hotchkiss, Nicole (para)   Rizzuti, Alana(para)   
Caron, Darlene (para)     
Strickland, Amy (para)    
Lane, Sharon(para)    
Ross, Nick (para)  
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL 
 
Lunenburg High School and its faculty continue to focus on rigorous curriculum, high standards and opportunities for 
students, both academic and extracurricular, so that every student feels supported and included in our community. LHS 
faculty is student centered in their teaching practices, and strive to learn and to change in order to best serve all of our 
students.  
2024 School Year  
Lunenburg High School returned this August with a renewed philosophy of support for our school community. We have 
assembled an outstanding, talented faculty with a shared vison of supporting students academically, socially and emo-
tionally as they tackle a rigorous and challenging curriculum.  With our renewed sense of support, students are able to 
acquire the skills necessary to earn a high school diploma as well as be successful in post-secondary education as well as 
in the work force.  One pillar of support that has proven to be successful for students is the LHS Intervention Teacher. 
This teaching position provides direct instruction to students who were identified by their teachers as to needing addi-
tional support to be successful in the classroom. Students report to the Interventionist during their study skills block and 
receive assistance to the specific class or classes they are struggling in. The data show the students participating in the 
intervention classroom show substantial improvement in the completion of classwork and in their overall grades.    
===PAGE 112===
112 
 
We continue to structure our Algebra classes to ensure all students are successful. We continue to keep class sizes low in 
Algebra II that allow teachers to provide more personalized, individualized instruction while working with smaller 
groups of students in a traditionally academically demanding course. This has been an effective strategy as you can see 
though our results in the MCAS table below.    
The restoration of faculty and courses at Lunenburg High School have allowed students a more varied options for course 
selection, provided individualized and programmatic support and structure for students to be successful.   
MCAS RESULTS  
Lunenburg High School - Spring 2024 MCAS Results (Grade 10)  
Subject Test  Exceeding Expectations / Meeting Expectations  State Average (EE/ME)  
ELA                                  68%                   57%  
Math   62%                   48%  
Science    64%                   49%  
 
The results indicate the LHS percentage scores for meeting and exceeding expectations are high, higher than the state 
average and in mathematics, 14 percentage points higher than the state average when compared to schools who serve 
students in similar grade levels. Reducing class sizes and providing students with additional individual classroom sup-
port was a successful strategy for improving student learning. The percentage of grade 10 students scoring in the meeting 
and exceeding expectations category in mathematics is the highest percentage in the district.   
We were also very pleased to learn that 30 students at Lunenburg High School received the state’s John and Abigail Ad-
ams Scholarship this year. The scholarship is available to students whose MCAS performance puts them at the top 25 
percent of their district. To be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one exam and Proficient on the other, or 
Advanced on both the English and Math exams. That is approximately 30 % of grade 10 students receiving the award.    
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES  
Homecoming weekend was a wonderful and well attended by students, families and alumni. The weather was beautiful 
and highlighted the community event. The parade was a huge success with the collection of candy the biggest hit with 
the children in town. Many community members noticed the care and time that were placed into the floats at each grade 
level.  The Blue Knights played well but lost in the football game and we always enjoy watching the LHMS Marching 
Band perform.    
Lunenburg High School Athletic Accomplishments  
Fall  
The golf team had an unbelievable turnaround from a year ago. They won a league championship, and logged a 5th place 
finish in the state match. Girls soccer Won back to back league championships.  They finished 11th in the final MIAA 
power rankings with an overall record of 15-1-1.  The team made it all the ay to the sweet 16 for the third year in a row, 
ultimately falling to Tyngsborough 1-0 in what was a fantastic game.  
Field hockey and boys’ soccer finished just outside of the cutoff to make the state tournament. Both teams had deep runs 
the last couple of years, and look to return to that stage next season.  
Cross Country finished third in the league. Jill Dionne, Evelyn Mabon, and Matthew Pilon were all represented on the all
-star team.  
Football finished their season 2-7. The team faced tough competition all year, as they continue their climb back to the top 
of the league.  Next year we will see some changes as our in league opponents will consist of the following:  Ayer-
Shirley, Murdock, and Littleton. We will also have a new Thanksgiving match up.  Lunenburg will play North Middle-
sex.  
Cheer had a great season on the sidelines. The team traveled to multiple competitive tournaments.  
Our middle school programs had a successful fall.  Field hockey finished their season with a 1-0 win over Littleton.  
Cross country finished their fall competing in the district meet, where our girls team finished 2nd overall.  
===PAGE 113===
113 
 
Unified basketball had a great season on the court.  They capped off their season at Fitchburg High School in the annual 
Mid-Wach Jamboree.  Fun was had by all at this fantastic end of season event!  
Winter  
Indoor track has taken multiple trips to the Reggie Lewis Center in Boston this season, and they have had some fantastic 
success.  First place and second place finishes abound.  Many of our athletes have already qualified for the state meet.  
We look forward to watching the team progress and compete for a Mid Wach Title in February, at The Reggie Lewis 
Center.  
Boys Basketball is off to a 7-1 start, which has earned them the #6 spot in the first power rankings of the season.  Sports 
Illustrated recently had an article ranking our team in the top 10 statewide.   
Girls’ basketball is 3-3 on the young season, and was ranked #15 in the first rankings, which would earn them a home 
playoff game if they started today.   
Our ski team, who hosts a co-op with Littleton, Leominster, and Narragansett has not had a race yet but they look prom-
ising and are excited to get going.  The team trains at Wachusett, while their meets take place at Nashoba Valley.  
For the second year in a row Boys hockey has come out of the gate fast.  They are currently 7-1-1, and ranked 10th in the 
state.  Their most recent game saw our team play defending state champ Dover-Sherborn to a 2-2 tie.  
We have a co-op girls hockey team at Leominster High School We currently have 6 girls from Lunenburg on the team.  
They have opened their season 3-6, but with the tough competition they have faced, they hold the #18 spot overall.  The 
team plays their home games at Wallace Civic Center.    
 
Our middle school basketball teams have begun their seasons.  It is great to see the future of our Blue Knight basketball 
programs in action, as they gain valuable experience on the court.   
CURRICULUM  
Teachers and administrators continue to refine, revise and create curriculum that is aligned to the state frameworks and is 
rigorous and challenging. This year’s focus is to work in vertical content area teams to ensure a smooth transition for 
students as they advance grade by grade. This process also ensures that students will have and build upon the educational 
skills that they will need to be successful in future grades. Scope and sequence maps have been created in order to assist 
in this grade level curriculum mapping.   
Lunenburg High School continues to provide a high quality education that ensures student success and promotes a pas-
sion for lifelong learning.  The key components to our success continue to be our talented faculty, our parents and our 
community members who support our teaching and learning. Most of all, our students who inspire us through their com-
mitment to learning. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.    
Respectfully Submitted,  
Tim Santry, Principal   
 

===PAGE 114===
114 
 
Math      Language Arts  
 
 
 
 
      
Science                                    Social Studies  
Dawn Gearin*    Warren Stevenson*  
Mitchell Friedman    Bradford Hausler  
Craig Pingsterhaus    Casey McDonnell  
Jennifer Biery    Hailee Martin  
Robert Hill     James McSweeney  
Mark Hannah     Brent Coxall  IT Dept.  
      
World Language    Unified Arts  
   Alexis Pukaite  
Jessica Ayer*    Steven Boone*  
Peggy Proctor    Derek Guimond  
Tamara Yourk    Sarah McGregor  
Lynn Radford    Scott Barry-Grove  
Taylor Smith     Karyn Giuliani  
 
   Athletic Director  
Special Services   Kevin Bigelow  
 Joshua Koziol*  
Jessica Walker  
Bryan Speck  
Amanda Duggan                               
Christina Conklin    Athletic Trainer  
Jon Malloy    Dave Abraham                                 
Meghan Arnold  
Stacey Canfield - Social Worker 
Mary Young– BCBA    Athletic/Secretary     
Lori Shea– School Psych   Courtney Fuller   
Carol Saranich– Speech   
  
   Media Specialist  
   Pamela Vallee  

===PAGE 115===
115 
 
Paraprofessionals   Guidance  
      Jeff Dionne  
    Gail Okerman*  
    Jonathan Ciullo  
    
 
    Guidance Secretary  
     Madison Rowley  
 
     Cafeteria Manager  
    John Terho 
     Jen Cotoni  
    Eleni Tsiakalos  
q    Elizabeth Toledo  
     Vanessa Cole 
     Jen Pasciutu 
      
  
    SRO  
    Brad McNamara & Hank 
                              
      Head Custodian  
    Renee Lafontaine 
      Custodians  
      Richard Krafve  
    Jaxin Mannone  
    Jennifer Hurley  
*Department Head 
  

===PAGE 116===
116 
 

===PAGE 117===
117 
 

===PAGE 118===
118 
 

===PAGE 119===
119 
 

===PAGE 120===
120 
 

===PAGE 121===
121 
 

===PAGE 122===
122 
 

===PAGE 123===
123 
 

===PAGE 124===
124 
 

===PAGE 125===
125 
 

===PAGE 126===
126 
 

===PAGE 127===
127 
 

===PAGE 128===
128 
 

===PAGE 129===
129 
 

===PAGE 130===
130 
 

===PAGE 131===
131 
 

===PAGE 132===
132 
 

===PAGE 133===
133 
 

===PAGE 134===
134 
 

===PAGE 135===
135 
 

===PAGE 136===
136 
 

===PAGE 137===
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN CLERK 
===PAGE 138===
138 
 
 
TOWN CLERK  
 
VITALS REPORT 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND US DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF TOWN, NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS HAVE 
BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURENCES OF EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE AND 
DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR. 
DURING 2024 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTH –101  DEATHS –102  MARRIAGES –40 
 
2024 TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS
 
 
Annual Town Meeting May 4, 2024  
At 9:05 a.m. the Moderator called the meeting to order, announced that the warrant was properly served, 
thanked Lou Franco for his years of service to the Town, then led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance. 
The Moderator went over the ground rules of the meeting. Thanked the Lunenburg Water District for sharing 
their voting devices as we prepared for an over capacity crowd. Rob Bowen was appointed Deputy Moderator 
and the Moderator explained the Consent Calendar. And Articles 1, 2, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 25 were 
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT. (Yes-241, No-6, Abstain-8, Total-255)    
  
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town Offic-
ers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)   
FINANCE COMMITTEE No Direct Financial Impact.   SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT (to Pass Over as written reports have been accepted).   
  
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, com-
mittees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the fiscal 
year beginning July 1, 2024 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town ’s General Bylaws; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recom-
mend Approval.   SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to re -
authorize the revolving funds for certain town departments, boards, committees, agencies or officers for 
the spending limits as printed in the Annual Town Meeting warrant.  
  
 
 
 

===PAGE 139===
139 
 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c. 44, § 53E½, to amend the 
General  Bylaws of the Town of Lunenburg, Chapter 138, entitled “Departmental Revolving Funds,” Subsec-
tion 5, entitled “Authorized revolving funds,” further Subsection D, by adding thereto the following revolving 
fund, and by identifying the authority designated to spend said fund, its source of revenue, its authorized uses 
and any restrictions or conditions thereon:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and, further, to authorize a spending limit of $50,000 for said fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024, to 
be expended in accordance with the aforementioned Chapter 138, as now amended; or take any other action 
relative thereto.   (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SE-
LECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes -243, No -9, Abstain -6, Total -258) pursuant to the 
provisions of G.L. c. 44, § 53E½, to amend the General  Bylaws of the Town of Lunenburg, Chapter 138, 
entitled “Departmental Revolving Funds”, Subsection 5, entitled “Authorized revolving funds,” further 
Subsection D, by adding thereto the Local Wetlands Protection Bylaw Fees revolving fund, and by iden-
tifying the authority designated to spend said fund, its source of revenue, its authorized uses and any 
restrictions or conditions as printed in the Annual Town Meeting warrant; and, further to authorize a 
spending limit of $50,000 for said fund for FY25, to be expended in accordance with the amended By-
laws.   
  
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOT-
ED (Yes-267, No-3, Abstain-3, Total 273) to transfer the sum of $1,944.55 from Free Cash for payment 
of prior year expenses.   
  
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary to 
amend the amounts voted for the Town ’s FY 2024 Budget, under Article 7 of the May 6, 2023 Annual Town 
Meeting and Article 1 of the November 14, 2023 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action relative 
thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT 
BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes -263, No -28, Abstain -12, Total -303) to transfer from line 
#13/Reserve Fund the sum of $239,573.73; and transfer to line 
 

===PAGE 140===
140 
 
 
#13A/Salary Reserve Fund the sum of $13,573.73; transfer to line #70/Snow Removal the sum of 
$226,000; all to amend the amounts voted under Article 7 of the May 6, 2023 Annual Town Meeting and 
Article 1 of the November 14, 2023 Special Town Meeting.  
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money for the FY 2025 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Report; or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend 
Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-320, No-31, Abstain-1, Total-352) to 
transfer from Free Cash the sum of $1,016,722.36; transfer from Article 6 of the May 4, 2019 Annual 
Town Meeting the sum of $1,887.00; transfer from Article 6 of the June 13, 2020 Annual Town Meeting 
the sum of $15,986.44; transfer from Article 2 of the November 17, 2020 Special Town Meeting the sum 
of $135,000; transfer from Article 6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $71,000; trans-
fer from Article 19 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $76,524.18; for a total appropri-
ation of $1,317,119.98 to fund the FY25 Capital Plan, as follows:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 7.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2025 and to fix the salaries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town 
Manager; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE 
COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes -309, No
-37, Abstain-10, Total-356) to raise and appropriate $43,290,567.48, transfer $402,269.13 from the Sew-
er Enterprise Fund, transfer $4.20 from the Reserve for MSBA Debt, transfer $41,478.43 from the Arti-
ficial Turf Revolving Fund, transfer $27,929.97 from the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise 
Fund, transfer $105,762.48 from the Health Insurance Stabilization Account, transfer $100,000 from  
  

===PAGE 141===
141 
 
Free Cash, and transfer $56,337.50 from Water Betterment Revenue to defray the charges and expenses of the 
Town for Fiscal Year 2025 of $44,024,349.19, and to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the 
Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager.      
 

===PAGE 142===
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 143===
143 
 
 

===PAGE 144===
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate $948,136 to supplement the Lunenburg 
Public School’s budget for Fiscal Year 2025, contingent upon the passage of a Proposition 2 ½ ballot question; 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recom-
mend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-256, No-114, Abstain-2, Total-
382) to raise and appropriate $948,136 to supplement the Lunenburg Public School’s budget for Fiscal 
Year 2025, contingent upon the passage of a Proposition 2 ½ ballot question.  
  
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Ad-
ministration Plan,” Section 70-8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” Subsection A, and specifically Schedule A as ref-
erenced therein, being the Classification and Salary Schedule of the Town of Lunenburg for FY 2025, as fol-
lows: the position of Library Page to be assigned to Grade 2; the position of Council on Aging Meal Site Man-
ager to be assigned to Grade 7; the position of Outreach Coordinator to be assigned to Grade 8; the position of 
PAC Manager to be assigned to Grade 12; the position of Police Executive Assistant to be added and assigned 
to Grade 10; and to rename the Reserve Officer position title to Police Reserve Officer; or take any other ac-
tion relative thereto. (Submitted by Personnel Committee) F INANCE COMMITTEE  No Direct Financial Im-
pact. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-148, No-5, Abstain-1, Total-154) to amend 
the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” Section 70-8, entitled 
“Salary Schedule,” Subsection A, and specifically Schedule A as referenced therein, being the Classifica-
tion and Salary Schedule of the Town of Lunenburg for FY 2025, as follows: the position of Library 
Page to be assigned to Grade 2; the position of Council on Aging Meal Site Manager to be assigned to 
Grade 7; the position of Outreach Coordinator to be assigned to Grade 8; the position of PAC Manager 
to be assigned to Grade 12; the position of Police Executive Assistant to be added and assigned to Grade 
10; and to rename the Reserve Officer position title to Police Reserve Officer.  
 
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg, 
Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” Section 70-8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” Subsection 
A,  and specifically Schedule A as referenced therein, as amended, with a  FY 2024 Salary Schedule and FY 
2025 Salary Schedule as recommended by the Personnel Committee, which authorizes wage increases for Fis-
cal Year 2024 and Fiscal Year 2025, for permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit 
agreement or individual contract; and, further, to transfer a sum of money  

===PAGE 145===
145 
 
from available funds to fund the wage increase for FY2024 and transfer a sum of money from available funds 
to fund the wage increases for FY2025, for Salary Administration Plan employees; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by Personnel Committee) FINANCE COMMITTEE  Recommend Approval. SE-
LECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-151, No-6, Abstain-1, Total-158) to replace the cur-
rent Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” 
Section 70-8, entitled “Salary Schedule,” Subsection A,  and specifically Schedule A as referenced there-
in, as amended, with a  FY 2024 Salary Schedule and FY 2025 Salary Schedule as recommended by the 
Personnel Committee, which authorizes wage increases for Fiscal Year 2024 and Fiscal Year 2025, for 
permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract; and, 
further, to transfer $89,771.61 from the FY 2024 Salary Reserve Fund to fund the wage increase for 
FY2024 and transfer $110,948.87 from the FY 2025 Salary Reserve Fund to fund the wage increases for 
FY2025, for Salary Administration Plan employees.   
 
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary 
Administration Plan,” Section 20, entitled “Sick Leave,” as follows, with additions underlined :   
F. Sick Time can be used for any of the following reasons:   
1. Care for the employee’s own physical or mental illness, injury or medical condition that requires home 
care or rest, professional medical diagnosis or care, or preventative medical care;   
2. Care for the employee’s child, spouse, parent or parent of a spouse, who is suffering from a physical or 
mental illness, injury, or medical condition that requires home care, professional medical diagnosis or care, 
or preventive medical care;   
3. Attending the employee’s routine medical appointment or a routine medical appointment for the employ-
ee’s child, spouse, parent, or parent of spouse;  
4. If an employee becomes a parent with or without giving birth (e.g. because the employee’s spouse gives 
birth to a baby, or the employee adopts a child). Employees may access up to 8 weeks (40 days) of sick 
leave.   
with such amendment to be effective as of July 1, 2024; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
Personnel Committee) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recom-
mend        VOTED (Yes-123, No-13, Abstain-2, Total-138) to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, 
entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” Section 20, entitled “Sick Leave,” Subsection F, to add the fol-
lowing new Item 4: “If an employee becomes a parent with or without giving birth (e.g. because the em-
ployee’s spouse gives birth to a baby, or the employee adopts a child). Employees may access up to 8 
weeks (40 days) of sick leave.” with such amendment to be effective as of July 1, 2024.   
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) FI-
NANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANI-
MOUS CONSENT to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $100,000 to the Stabilization Fund.     
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the 
Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD  Recommend Approval. 
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $250,000 to the Special Pur-
pose Stabilization Fund.   
===PAGE 146===
146 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take 
any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend 
Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to transfer from 
Free Cash the sum of $187,061, and transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of 
$1,500.00, for a total of $188,561, to the OPEB Trust Fund established at the November 30, 2010 Special 
Town Meeting.  
 (Submitted by the Sewer Commission)    
 
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2025; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Sewer Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend 
Approval. VOTED  (Yes-115,  No-6, Abstain-1, Total-122) to appropriate from Sewer Enterprise reve-
nues the sum of $1,348,919.87; and appropriate from Sewer Enterprise retained earnings the sum of 
$363,500.00 for a total appropriation of $1,712,419.87 to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY25; 
and further that $402,269.13 be included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and 
be allocated to the Sewer Enterprise Fund.    
 
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $35,000 into the Sewer Capital 
Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $35,000 into 
the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund.  
   
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of 
money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2025; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SE-
LECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Solid 
Waste Disposal Enterprise Anticipated Revenues the sum of $398,000 and transfer the sum of $102,000 
from Solid Waste Retained Earnings for a total of $500,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Pro-
gram Enterprise Fund for FY25.   
  
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of 
money to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2025; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Ap-
proval. VOTED UNANIMOUS  CONSENT to appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues the sum of 
$45,000 to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY25.  
  
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to fund the FY 2025 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating and capital 
budgets; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the PAC Committee)   
FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. 
===PAGE 147===
147 
 
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related revenues the 
sum of $180,843.03 to fund the operating and capital budgets of the PEG Access and Cable Related En-
terprise Fund for FY25; and further that $27,929.97 be included in appropriations from the general 
fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund.  
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery 
Lots account to be used for the care, improvement, and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission)  
FINANCE COMMITTE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-
119, No-2, Abstain-0, Total-121) to appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery Lots ac-
count to be used for the care and improvement and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries.    
  
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the vote of Article 33 of the May 6, 2006 Annual Town 
Meeting to decrease the age of the exemption as allowed by M.G.L. c. 59, § 5 (41C), from 70 to 65, to amend 
the reimbursement amount up to 100 percent of the exemption, and further to adjust the income and asset lim-
its according to the statute; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Assessors) FI-
NANCE COMMITTEE Recommend Approval. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-110, 
No-3, Abstain-0, Total 113) to amend the vote of Article 33 of the May 6, 2006 Annual Town Meeting to 
decrease the age of the exemption as allowed by M.G.L. c. 59, § 5 (41C), from 70 to 65, to amend the re-
imbursement amount up to 100 percent of the exemption, and further to adjust the income and asset 
limits according to the statute.  
  
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to re-adopt and accept the provisions of Section 20 of Chapter 
32B of the Massachusetts General Laws, as amended by Section 15 of Chapter 218 of the Acts of 2016, estab-
lishing an Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) Liability Trust Fund; to authorize the Select Board and 
Treasurer to execute a declaration of trust creating an expendable trust for the purpose of holding monies ap-
propriated to such fund; to designate the Treasurer as the trustee of such trust; to authorize the transfer of any 
and all monies currently held for the purpose of paying retiree health and life benefits to such trust; and to au-
thorize the trustee to invest and reinvest the monies in such fund accordance with the Prudent Investor Rule 
established under Chapter 203C of the Massachusetts General Laws; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager)   
FINANCE COMMITTEE No Direct Financial Impact. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED 
(Yes-100, No-2, Abstain-3, Total-105) to re-adopt and accept the provisions of Section 20 of Chapter 32B 
of the Massachusetts General Laws, as amended by Section 15 of Chapter 218 of the Acts of 2016, estab-
lishing an Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) Liability Trust Fund; to authorize the Select Board 
and Treasurer to execute a declaration of trust creating an expendable trust for the purpose of holding 
monies appropriated to such fund; to designate the Treasurer as the trustee of such trust; to authorize 
the transfer of any and all monies currently held for the purpose of paying retiree health and life bene-
fits to such trust; and to authorize the trustee to invest and reinvest the monies in such fund in accord-
ance with the Prudent Investor Rule established under Chapter 203C of the Massachusetts General 
Laws.  
===PAGE 148===
148 
 
ARTICLE 23.   To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, entitled 
“Boards, Commissions and Committees, ” by adding a new Article IV thereto, thus codifying the af-
firmed votes of the May 1979 Annual Town Meeting   (Articles 21 and 22) and the May 2008 Annual 
Town Meeting (Article 18), as follows:  
  
Article IV  Historical Commission  
§ 12-7  Establishment, membership, terms and transition.  
There has been established, and its existence hereby acknowledged and ratified, an Historical Commis-
sion, pursuant to and under the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section 8D.  The 
Historical Commission shall be composed of five (5) members appointed by the Select Board for terms 
of three years each with said terms staggered so that as nearly an equal number of members shall be ap-
pointed each year.   
  
§ 12-8  Powers and duties.  
The Historical Commission shall exist for the purposes and with the rights and duties provided by law.  
The local Historical Commission is the agency responsible for identifying and recording the historic as-
sets of its community and for developing and implementing a program for their preservation.  The His-
torical Commission cooperates with other municipal agencies such as the Planning Board and Conser-
vation Commission to ensure that the goals of historic preservation are considered in planning the fu-
ture development of the community.  The Historical Commission also coordinates the activities of local 
groups with interests involving history or historic preservation, such as local historical societies and pri-
vate preservation organizations, serving as a liaison between these groups and the state and federal 
agencies and preservations organizations.  
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE No 
Direct Financial Impact. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes -104, No-7, Abstain-1, 
Total-112) to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, entitled “Boards, Commissions and Commit-
tees,” by adding a new Article IV thereto, as follows:   
  
Article IV  Historical Commission  
§ 12-7  Establishment, membership, terms and transition.  
There has been established, and its existence hereby acknowledged and ratified, an Historical Commis-
sion, pursuant to and under the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section 8D.  The 
Historical Commission shall be composed of five (5) members appointed by the Select Board for terms 
of three years each with said terms staggered so that as nearly an equal number of members shall be ap-
pointed each year.   
  
§ 12-8  Powers and duties.  
The Historical Commission shall exist for the purposes and with the rights and duties provided by law.  
The local Historical Commission is the agency responsible for identifying and recording the historic as-
sets of its community and for developing and implementing a program for their preservation.  The His-
torical Commission cooperates with other municipal agencies such as the Planning Board and Conser-
vation Commission to ensure that the goals of historic preservation are considered in planning the fu-
ture development of the community.  The Historical Commission also coordinates the activities of local 
groups with interests involving history or historic preservation, such as local historical societies and pri-
vate preservation organizations, serving as a liaison between these groups and the state and federal 
agencies and preservations organizations.  
  
ARTICLE 24.   To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify: (i) §250 -4.1G, 
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Use Table,” by inserting a new use entitled “Battery Ener-
gy Storage Systems” and by noting the manner in which it is permitted or prohibited in the various zoning dis-
tricts, as detailed below; and (ii) §250 -4.13, which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Solar energy 
systems,” by inserting a Subsection F entitled “Battery Energy Storage Systems ” to reasonably regulate the 
installation of Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of a Solar Generating Facility and as a Standalone use, 
as detailed below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)  
===PAGE 149===
149 
 
A. Proposed changes to §250-4.1G “Use Table”  
  
A. Insert “Small Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems” into the Use Table and note that the use is 
permitted in all zoning districts.  
 
B. Insert “Accessory Battery Energy Storage Systems” into the Use Table and note that the use is permitted 
in all zoning districts as an accessory use.  
 
C. Insert “Medium-Scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems” and “Large-Scale Standalone Bat-
tery Energy Storage Systems” into the Use Table and note that the uses are permitted as follows:  
 1. by right or by Site Plan Approval in the Solar Overlay District as provided.  
 2. by Site Plan Approval in the Commercial District and the Office Park/Industrial District.  
 3. by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the RA, RB, O, LB/R, R, VCD, SS, and W  
 districts.  
 
  
D. Insert a footnote applicable to “Small Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems”, “Accessory Battery 
Energy Storage Systems”, “Medium-Scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems”, and “Large-Scale 
Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems” indicating the uses are permitted as provided in §250-4.13F.  
  
B. Proposed §250-4.13F  
  
1. Purpose  
 
The purpose of this subsection is to reasonably regulate the development and operation of Battery Energy 
Storage Systems (BESS) by providing standards for the placement, design, construction, operation, monitor-
ing, modification, and removal of such systems that address public safety, minimize impacts on scenic, natu-
ral, and historic resources and to provide adequate financial assurance for the decommissioning of such sys-
tems in a manner which fulfills the following objectives:  
 
A. To designate properties suitable for the location, construction and operation of BESS;  
B. To ensure compatible land uses in the vicinity of the areas affected by BESS;  
C. To mitigate the impacts of BESS on environmental resources, other protected resources, and private 
property; and  
D. To create synergy between BESS development and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Act to Ad-
vance Clean Energy that established the Clean Peak Standard Energy Storage System.  
 
2. Applicability  
Provisions of this subsection §250-4.13F shall apply as follows:   
  
A. To all Battery Energy Storage Systems as defined herein, which are permitted, installed, or modified in 
the Town of Lunenburg excluding general maintenance and repair.  
B. To modifications, retrofits or replacements of an existing BESS that increase the total battery energy 
storage.  
C. Except as an accessory to an approved solar generating facility, BESS facilities shall not be constructed 
or installed prior to the effective date of this by-law.  
 
3. Definitions:  
 
The definitions below are specific to the requirements of this subsection §250-4.13F and are intended to 
supplement the standard definitions of the Zoning Bylaws, Article II (§250-2.1).  
 
A. Battery Energy Storage Management System: A system that protects energy storage systems from operat-
ing outside their safe operating parameters and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system or 
places it in a safe condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditions are detected.   
 
===PAGE 150===
150 
 
B. Battery Energy Storage System: One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in or-
der to supply electrical energy at a future time to the local power loads, to the utility grid, or for grid sup-
port. For the purposes of this definition, a BESS shall not be considered a Public Utility and Facility.  
C. Battery Energy Storage System, Accessory: A Battery Energy Storage System installed and operated to 
support an on -site Solar Generating Facility. This would include a Solar Parking Canopy as defined in 
§250-4.5A and §250-4.6A.  
D. Battery Energy Storage System, Standalone: A system that is capable of absorbing energy from the electric 
grid, storing it for a period of time and thereafter distributing electricity.  
E. Battery Energy Storage System, Small scale: A system which serves  
        [1] a residential, commercial, industrial, or institutional development or  
        [2] a parking facility which is not a solar generating facility but has one or more Electric Vehicle Charg - 
        ing stations and the BESS is primarily associated with the Electric Vehicle Charging station functions.  
F. Battery Energy Storage System, Medium scale: A pad site or sites no more than 10,000 square feet on a 
single parcel of land.  
G. Battery Energy Storage System, Large scale: Pad site(s) larger than 10,000 square feet on a single parcel of 
land.  
H. Pad compound: The enclosure (including the fence) in which one or more pads are installed upon which 
standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems are installed.  
I. Pad site: Locations within a pad compound on which Battery Energy Storage Systems equipment are posi-
tioned.  
J. Site Safety Plan: A plan which demonstrates the safe development, operation, and access to/from the facili-
ty taking into consideration such factors as, but not limited to, means of access, roadway conditions, prox-
imity to residential and other populated structures, hazardous materials, and monitoring protocols, etc.  
K. Site Security Plan: A plan which details how the BESS will be secured from unauthorized entry and details 
the method of monitoring of entry.  
 
4. Permitted Locations  
A. Small BESS facilities may be located as part of the residential, commercial, industrial, or institutional de-
velopment or parking facility it is serving provided it is included on the site plan or permit application ap-
proved by the Town of Lunenburg for such facility.  
B. BAccessory Battery Energy Storage Systems may be located as a part of any large -scale solar energy gen-
erating facility permitted and developed in accordance with Section 250-4.13 of the Zoning Bylaw, provid-
ed the BESS is depicted on the plans for which the solar energy generating facility is permitted.  
C. Medium- or Large-scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems may be allowed by right within the 
Solar Overlay District provided they are to be located on parcels meeting the following minimum parcel 
sizes and spacing:  
        [1] Medium-scale Standalone BESS installation: 6 acres and no less than 200 feet from residentially de-    
        veloped property.  
        [2] Large-scale Standalone BESS installation: 20 acres and no less than 200 feet from residentially devel  
        oped property.  
D. Medium- or Large-scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems may be permitted to be located with-
in the Solar Overlay District by Site Plan Approval in accordance with section 250 -8.4 of the Zoning By-
law where the site does not conform to the size or spacing restrictions in Section 250-4.13F(4)(c) above.  
E. E. Medium- or Large-scale Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems may be allowed in the   following 
Zoning Districts only upon Site Plan Approval granted by the Planning Board:  
       [1] Commercial District  
       [2] Office Park/Industrial District  
F.  Special Permit Required. Outside of the Solar Overlay District, Commercial District, and Office Park/              
       Industrial District, medium - and large-scale Standalone Battery Storage Systems may be located on any  
       lot containing more than 20 acres by special permit issued by the Planning Board.  
===PAGE 151===
151 
 
5. Project Approval Criteria – Medium- and Large-Scale Standalone BESS projects  
  
A. A. Standards – Site Plan Approval. In granting the Site Plan Approval, the Planning Board shall find that 
the permit may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without nullifying or sub-
stantially derogating from the intent and purpose of this bylaw, and shall find that:  
        [1] The project conforms to the standards for Site Plan Approval set forth in § 250-8.4E.  
        [2] The granting of Site Plan Approval will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, sunlight, and  
        other amenities.  
        [3] There will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians.  
        [4] Environmental features of the site are protected, and surface runoff will not cause  damage to sur - 
        rounding properties or increase soil erosion and sedimentation of  nearby streams and ponds.  
B. Standards – Special Permit. In granting the Special Permit, the Planning Board shall find that the permit  
      may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without nullifying or substantially  
      derogating from the intent and purpose of this bylaw, and shall find that:  
        [1] The project conforms to the standards for Site Plan Approval set forth in § 250-8.4E.  
        [2] The specific site is an appropriate location for such an installation.  
        [3] The proposed installation will not adversely affect the existing neighborhood by the following:  
                [a] Historical significance,  
 [b] Scenic vistas,  
 [c] Natural and rural character, or  
 [d] Public safety.  
 [4] The granting of the Special Permit will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, sun  
 light, and other amenities.  
 [5] There will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians.  
 [6] Environmental features of the site are protected, and surface runoff will not cause  
 damage to surrounding properties or increase soil erosion and sedimentation of  
 nearby streams and ponds.  
C. The Planning Board may also impose conditions as it finds reasonably appropriate to safeguard the town or  
      neighborhood including, but not limited to, screening, lighting, noise, fences, modification of the exterior  
      appearance of electrical cabinets, battery storage systems, or other structures, limitation upon system size,  
      and means of vehicular access or traffic features.  
 
6. General Requirements – All BESS facilities  
A. Building and Electrical Permits. Unless the Building Commissioner determines otherwise, a building per-
mit and electrical permit are required prior to installation of the BESS facility.  
B. Dimensional requirements. For purposes of dimensional requirements, facilities containing BESS equip-
ment shall be treated as a building and subject to the more stringent requirements of the Zoning District in 
which it is located or this Section 250-4.13(F).  
  
7. General Requirements – Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS facilities  
A. Containment. In the event an Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS facility failure may result in dis-
persal of chemicals, liquids, etc. which could be hazardous to the environment – particularly the ground 
water supply, BESS equipment storage/operations facilities shall be constructed with a means of properly 
containing such unplanned dispersals. Any such containment shall be provided, sized, and constructed as 
deemed appropriate and necessary by the Lunenburg Fire Chief or their designee.  
[1] If the Fire Chief or their designee determines that the facility does not require a containment 
structure, they shall state such in their Letter of Review of the Site Safety Plan which is to 
be included the proponent’s application to the Planning Board (Section 250-4.13F(13).   
B. Security. A site security plan detailing all security measures and providing for an active security system       
      monitored 24 hours per day shall be developed for each proposed Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale  
===PAGE 152===
152 
 
BESS. Pursuant to 250-4.13F(15), this plan shall be submitted to and approved by the Lunenburg Police Chief 
prior to submission of an application for project approval to the Planning Board. A copy of the Police Chief ’s 
letter of approval must be included in the proponent’s application.  
 
C. Inspection. All medium and large -scale BESS facilities shall be open to inspection by the Fire Department,  
     Police Department, and Building Commissioner during regular business hours with 24 hours' notice of re  
     quest for such inspection to be made by the Town department or official. A property contact shall be availa- 
     ble to such Town department or official 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
 
D. Maintenance and Operations  
        [1] The owner/operator shall be responsible for maintenance of the facility including but not limited to the      
        site, access, stormwater management system, structures, and security system. The owner/operator shall be  
        solely responsible for the cost of maintaining the installation.  
        [2] The applicant shall submit, as part of an application for Site Plan Approval and Special Permit for an  
        Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS, a maintenance and operations plan.  
  
E. Hazardous Materials  
        [1] Hazardous materials that are stored, used or generated on site shall not exceed the amount for a "Very  
        Small Quantity Generator of Hazardous Waste" as defined by the Department of Environmental Protec - 
        tion (DEP) pursuant to 310 CMR 30.000 and shall meet all requirements of the DEP and Massachusetts  
        Contingency Plan, including storage of hazardous materials in a building with an impervious floor that is   
        not adjacent to any floor drains to prevent discharge to the outdoor environment.  
 
[A] If hazardous materials are utilized within the energy storage equipment, then impervious containment are-
as capable of controlling any release to the environment and to prevent potential contamination of groundwater 
are required.  
  
F. Safety Standards  
        [1] At a minimum, all Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS installations including equipment shall     
        comply with the following:  
[a] NFPA-855  
[b] UL9540  
[c] UL9540A  
[d] UL1973  
[e] 527 CMR 1 (Massachusetts Fire Code)  
  
8. Design Standards – Accessory, Medium- and Large-Scale BESS   
A. The design standards specified below shall be applicable to all Accessory, Medium -scale, and Large-scale 
BESS projects.  
        [1] Lighting and security. Lighting of applicable BESS facilities shall be sufficient for security and safe  
        operational purposes and consistent with local, state and federal law. Lighting shall be reasonably shield -     
        ed from abutting properties. Where feasible, any required lighting shall be directed downward and shall    
        incorporate full -cut-off fixtures to reduce light pollution. Surveillance and security cameras shall be  
        shielded from viewing abutting private property or invading the privacy of any abutting residential prop - 
        erty owner.  
        [2] Signage. Signage shall be consistent with local, state, and federal law. Signs shall be located and sized    
        compliant with § 250-6.5 of the Zoning Bylaw and shall not be used for displaying any advertising except   
        to identify the owner and/or operator of the solar installation and a twenty -four-hour emergency contact    
        telephone number.  
===PAGE 153===
153 
 
        [3] Vegetation and Land clearing. Clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to what is necessary for  
        construction, operation, and maintenance of the installation. Any land disturbance, including earth remov-       
        al of land cleared greater than one acre is subject to § 204 -1 of the Code of Lunenburg regarding storm   
        water management and as otherwise prescribed by applicable laws, regulations, and bylaws. In approving  
        an applicable BESS project, the Planning Board may require clearing of combustible materials within  
        proximity to the proposed BESS equipment facilities if advised that such clearance is warranted by the  
        Lunenburg Fire Department.  
  
[4] Safety, emergency service and environmental standards. Design of the layout of the BESS facility shall be 
consistent with the   
[a]Site Safety Plan approved by the Lunenburg Fire Chief  
[b]Emergency Response Plan approved by the Lunenburg Fire Chief and Police Chief  
[c]Site Security Plan approved by the Lunenburg Police Chief.  
 
[5] Visual impact. Any applicable BESS installation shall be designed to minimize visual impacts, particularly 
as viewed from public roadways, and adjoining or nearby residential properties. Examples of methods of mini-
mizing such impacts include preserving natural vegetation to the maximum extent possible, using architectural 
features, blending in equipment with the surroundings, incorporating earth berms, and adding vegetative buff-
ers to screen abutting residential properties, whether developed or not. Siting of installations shall be such that 
the view of the installation from other areas of Town shall be as minimal as possible. Buffer strips shall sur-
round the proposed project.  
[a] A screening plan, which assures the facility is shielded to greatest extent possible from pub-
lic view, should be included in the submission for Site Plan Approval or Special Permit which-
ever is required.  
[b] The Planning Board may require development of a screening plan with specified features 
prior to acting upon an application for Site Plan Approval or Special Permit.  
 
[6] Buffer strips in all districts. All applicable accessory, medium -scale, and large -scale BESS installations 
shall be surrounded by a buffer strip.  
[a] If it abuts a residential use or a Residential or Recreation District, the buffer strip shall be at 
least 200 feet deep.  
[b] If it does not abut a residential use or a Residential or Recreation District, the buffer strip 
shall only be required to 50 feet deep.  
[c] The buffer strip shall be measured along the entirety of the common property lines.  
[d] However, if the applicant can demonstrate to the Planning Board’s satisfaction that adequate 
buffering can be provided in a narrower buffer strip, the Planning Board may waive the afore-
mentioned depths and approve a narrower buffer strip,  
  
[7] Height. The height of any structure (includes elements containing equipment) associated with an installa-
tion shall not exceed 20 feet.   
 
[8] Roads/Access.  
[a] Sufficient access for operation, maintenance, and emergency response must be provided and 
maintained to each of the equipment structures included with each installation.  
[b] All access roads and interior roads shall be constructed to minimize grading, removal of 
stone walls or trees and to minimize impacts to environmental or historic resources.  
[c] Spacing between equipment containers or structures shall be in accordance with applicable 
Fire Codes and addressed as part of the Site Safety Plan review by the Lunenburg Fire Chief 
and during the Site Plan Approval process.   
 
[9] Hazardous materials. Storage of hazardous materials, if any, must be consistent with 250 -4.13F(7)(e) here-
in.   
===PAGE 154===
154 
 
[10] Noise. Noise generated by an Accessory, Medium -scale, or large-scale BESS installation, and by any as-
sociated equipment and machinery, shall conform to applicable state and local noise regulations, including the 
Department of Environmental Protection's Division of Air Quality noise regulations, 310 CMR 7.10.  
[a] The site shall not produce any other vibration, harmonics, or interference which would be 
perceived or impact the normal function of electronics off site.  
[b] As general rule, noise levels measured greater than 60dBA as measured at any property line 
upon which residential buildings are located shall be deemed to be excessive and the operator/
owner of the installation shall take efforts to reduce noise to levels not greater than 60dBA.  
 
[11] Utility Lines. Reasonable efforts should be made to place all utility connections underground, depending 
on appropriate soil conditions, shape and topography of the site.  
  
[12] Fencing Requirements. All mechanical equipment shall be within an enclosed structure which shall be 
shielded by a 7-foot-high fence.  
B. Waiver. The Planning Board may waive one or more of these requirements in its sole discre-
tion under appropriate circumstances based on input from the Lunenburg Fire Department, Po-
lice Department, Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, and a determination by 
the Planning Board that granting of the waiver will be consistent with the purpose of the Zoning 
Bylaw.  
 
9. Required Application Documents.  
A. In addition to the documents required for Site Plan Approval under the Planning Board ’s rules and regula  
     tions, the following will be required for applications for Site Plan Approval/Special Permit for a medium - 
     scale or large-scale BESS installation:  
[1] Requirements set forth for project in section 250-4.13D(8) of the Zoning Bylaw  
[2] A copy of the letters from the Fire Chief and Police Chief regarding review and approval of 
the Site Safety Plan, Site Security Plan, and Emergency Response Plan.  
[3] Documentation that the proposed installation will conform to the Requirements and Design 
Standards of this section 250-4.13F.  
B. Waiver. The Planning Board may waive one or more of these requirements in its sole discretion under ap  
     propriate circumstances.  
 
10. Modifications. All modification requests for an accessory, medium -scale, or large-scale BESS installation, 
made after issuance of the required building permit shall require review through Site Plan Review in accord-
ance with Section 250-8.4 of this Zoning Bylaw.   
 
11. Ownership/Operator Changes.  
A. Prior to a change in ownership/operator of the Accessory, Medium -Scale, and Large -Scale BESS facility 
taking effect, the existing owner/operator shall notify the Zoning Enforcement Officer in writing of such 
pending change in Owner and/or Operator.  
B. The existing owner/operator and the proposed owner/operator shall submit the notification of the pending 
changes and the proposed owner/operator shall certify that they are aware of and agree to adhere to the 
conditions of the Site Plan Approval and/or Special Permit and agree to adhere to said conditions and pro-
vide a new surety in accordance with the Board’s approval.   
C. Failure of the owner/operator to make the required notification shall mean that the Site Plan Approval  
     and/or Special Permit will be void. Reinstatement of said Site Plan Approval/Special Permit shall fol 
     low the same process as a new Site Plan Approval/Special Permit application.   
===PAGE 155===
155 
 
12. Abandonment, removal, and site restoration – Accessory, Medium-Scale, and Large-Scale BESS  
A. Absent notice of the proposed date of decommissioning or written notice of extenuating circumstanc-
es, the Battery Energy Storage System shall be considered abandoned when it fails to operate for 
more than one year without the written consent of the Planning Board.  
B. The owner or operator shall physically remove the installation and stabilize/restore the site to the 
condition specified in the “restoration plan” approved by the Planning Board when the Planning 
Board approved the subject facility. This restoration plan shall be implemented no more than 150 
days after the date of abandonment or the proposed date of decommissioning operations, unless the 
Planning Board grants a waiver of this time requirement.  
C. The owner or operator shall notify the Planning Board by certified mail of the proposed date of dis-
continued operations and plans for removal and restoration. The notification shall consist of the 
methodology of physical removal of all structures, equipment, security barriers and transmission 
lines (located on the project site as part of the project operations), disposal of all solid and hazardous 
waste and stabilization or revegetation of the site.  
[1] The Planning Board shall either approve or reject the plan at their next meeting.  
[2] If the Planning Board rejects the plan, they shall do so only upon a finding that the plan fails to rea-
sonably remove the facility and restore the site to a condition usable for purposes allowed within the 
zoning district in which the site is situated and shall state clear reasons for such rejection.  
D. Landscaping, etc. may be left upon approval of the Planning Board.  
E. If the owner or operator fails to remove the installation in accordance with the above criteria, the 
Town may, after the receipt of an appropriate court order or consent of the property owner, enter the 
property and physically remove the installation at the owner's expense.  
F. As a condition of a project permit, the project operator and property owner shall agree to allow the 
Town entry to remove an abandoned or decommissioned installation in the event it is not removed 
pursuant to notice given by the Town.  
G. The cost for the removal will be charged to the property owner in accordance with the provisions of 
MGL c. 139, § 3A as a tax lien on the property.  
 
13. Financial surety.    
Proponents of medium and large-scale BESS projects shall provide a form of surety in a form acceptable 
to the Town (generally, either through an escrow account, bond or similar method), to cover the cost of 
removal and site restoration in the event the Town must remove the installation and remediate the land-
scape, in an amount and form determined to be reasonable by the Planning Board, but in no event to ex-
ceed more than 125% of the cost of removal and compliance with the additional requirements set forth 
herein.  
[1] The project proponent shall submit a fully inclusive estimate of the costs associated with removal and 
site restoration, prepared by a qualified engineer.   
[2] The Town’s consulting engineer on the project review shall review and confirm or modify the esti-
mated costs and submit a recommendation to the Planning Board.  
[3] The surety shall include a mechanism for calculating increased removal/restoration cost due to infla-
tion.  
[4] Site restoration shall be for the purpose of restoring the site to a condition which allows reuse of the 
site for a purpose permitted by right within the zoning district in which the site is located.  
===PAGE 156===
156 
 
 14. Site Safety Plan. A site safety plan for an accessory, medium -, or large -scale BESS facility shall be 
developed and submitted to the Fire Chief for approval prior to submission of an application for Planning 
Board consideration. As part of the application to the Planning Board, the applicant shall provide a letter 
from the Fire Chief or his authorized representative approving the Site Safety Plan. Any changes/revisions 
to the Site Safety Plan shall be approved by the Fire Chief prior to implementation.  
A. As part of the site safety plan submission to the Lunenburg Fire Department, the proponent shall pro-
vide:  
[1] the proposed equipment’s UL 9540A certification documentation.  
[2] Sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with NFPA 855 and UL 9540  
  
15. Emergency Response Plan  
A. Prior to submission of an application for an accessory, medium -, or large -scale BESS facility, all pro  
      ponents for installation of a BESS facility shall   
[1] Meet with the Lunenburg Fire Department and the Lunenburg Police Department to discuss and identi-
fy emergency plans/contingency plans for the site;  
[2] Submit an Emergency Response Plan to the Lunenburg Fire Chief and Lunenburg Police Chief for ap-
proval.  
B. As part of the application to the Planning Board, the applicant shall provide a letter from the Fire Chief  
     and Police Chief or their authorized representatives approving the Emergency Response Plan.  
C. Any changes/revisions to the Emergency Response Plan shall be approved by the Fire Chief and Police  
     Chief prior to implementation. 
 
16. Site Security Plan. A Site Security Plan for an accessory, medium -, or large-scale BESS facility shall 
be developed and submitted to the Lunenburg Police Department through the Police Chief (or their author-
ized representative) for approval prior to submission of an application for Planning Board consideration.  
A. The plan shall be in conformance with the requirements of the Lunenburg Police Department, to 
demonstrate that there is no undue burden on Town public safety officials as a result of the proposed 
business.  
B. The security plan shall include the details of all security measures for the site to ensure the safety of 
employees and the public and to protect the premises property from theft or other criminal activity.  
C. As part of the application to the Planning Board, the applicant shall provide a letter from the Police 
Chief or his authorized representative approving the Site Security Plan. Any changes/revisions to the 
Site Security Plan shall be approved by the Police Chief prior to implementation.  
 
17. Training   
A. All developers/operators of Accessory, Medium, and Large-scale BESS facilities shall provide, at their 
expense, the Town of Lunenburg emergency response agencies with one training session regarding the 
Emergency Response Plan and appropriate procedures associated with the facility at a date and time to 
agreed to by the Lunenburg Fire Chief in consultation with other appropriate emergency responding 
agencies.  
B. If the Accessory, Medium, or Large-scale BESS facility is altered due to new technology which results 
in changes to the Emergency Response Plan and appropriate procedures, the operator of the facility 
shall conduct a new training session regarding the Emergency Response Plan and appropriate proce-
dures associated with the facility, if requested by the Lunenburg Fire Chief, at a date and time agreed 
to by the Lunenburg Fire Chief in consultation with other appropriate emergency responding agencies.   
===PAGE 157===
157 
 
 28. Waiver. The Planning Board may waive one or more of the dimensional requirements specified under 
§250-4.13F(4)(c), §250-4.13F(6)(b), and §250 -4.13F(8) in its sole discretion under appropriate circumstances 
based on input from the Lunenburg Fire Department, Police Department, Building Commissioner, Conserva-
tion Commission, and a determination by the Planning Board that granting of the waiver will be consistent 
with the purpose of the Zoning Bylaw.  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE No Direct Financial Impact. SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval. PLAN-
NING BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes 100, No -0, Abstain-0, Total-100) to modify: (i) Sec-
tion 250-4.1G of the Protective Bylaw, entitled “Use Table,” by inserting a new use entitled “Battery En-
ergy Storage Systems ” and by noting the manner in which it is permitted or prohibited in the various 
zoning districts, as printed in the Annual Town Meeting warrant; and (ii) Section 250-4.13 of the Protec-
tive Bylaw, entitled “Solar energy systems, ” by inserting a Subsection F entitled “Battery Energy Stor-
age Systems” to reasonably regulate the installation of Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of a So-
lar Generating Facility and as a Standalone use, as printed in the Annual Town Meeting warrant but 
also, in Subsection F(4)(e), by adding the phrase “in the” between the word “allowed” and the phrase 
“following Zoning Districts.”   
 
ARTICLE 25. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to delete §250 -4.9 Water Sup-
ply Protection District as written and replace by inserting §250 -4.9 Water Supply Protection District as written 
below; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)  
  
250-4.9 WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT  
A. PURPOSE OF DISTRICT  
The purpose of this Water Supply Protection District is to:  
1. promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community by ensuring an adequate quality and 
quantity of drinking water for the Town of Lunenburg;  
2. preserve and protect existing and potential sources of drinking water;  
3. conserve natural resources in the Town of Lunenburg;  
4. and  prevent temporary and permanent contamination of the environment.  
 
B. SCOPE OF AUTHORITY 
1. The Water Supply Protection District is an overlay district superimposed on the zoning districts. This over-
lay district shall apply to all new construction, reconstruction, or expansion of existing buildings and new 
or expanded uses. Applicable activities and uses in a portion of one of the underlying zoning districts that 
fall within the Water Supply Protection District must additionally comply with the requirements of this by-
law. Uses prohibited in the underlying zoning districts shall not be permitted in the Water Supply Protec-
tion District.  
2. Nothing in 250-4.9 imposes regulation on parcels or portions of parcels located within Zone I.  
 
C. DEFINITIONS  
Automobile Graveyard: An establishment that is maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or 
selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or motor vehicle parts as defined in MGL c.140B, s.1.  
Aquifer: A geologic formation composed of rock, sand or gravel that contains significant amounts of potential-
ly recoverable water.  
CMR: Code of Massachusetts Regulations.  
===PAGE 158===
158 
 
Commercial Fertilizer: Any substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients which is used for its 
plant nutrient content and which is designed for use, or claimed to have value in promoting plant growth, ex-
cept un-manipulated animal and vegetable manures, marl, lime, limestone, wood ashes, and gypsum, and other 
products exempted by state regulations.  
  
Discharge: The accidental or intentional disposal, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, pouring, or 
placing of toxic or hazardous material or hazardous waste upon or into any land or water such that it may enter 
the surface or ground waters.  
  
Dry Well: A subsurface pit with open-jointed lining or holes through which storm- water drainage from roofs, 
basement floors, foundations or other areas seep into the surrounding soil.  
  
Water Supply Protection District: The land area consisting of aquifers, Zone II recharge areas, and Zone III 
areas, all ass approved by MassDEP and identified on a map and adopted pursuant to this bylaw.  
 
Hazardous Material: Any substance in any form which because of its quantity, concentration, or its chemical, 
corrosive, flammable, reactive, toxic, infectious or radioactive characteristics, either separately or in combina-
tion with one or more substances, constitutes a present or potential threat to human health, safety, welfare, or 
to the environment, when improperly stored, treated, transported, disposed of, used, or otherwise managed. 
Hazardous material includes, without limitation, synthetic organic chemicals, petroleum products, heavy met-
als, radioactive or infectious materials, and all substances defined as toxic or hazardous under MGL c. 21E. 
This term shall not include hazardous waste or oil.  
  
Historical High Groundwater Table Elevation: A groundwater elevation determined from monitoring wells and 
historical water table fluctuation data compiled by the United States Geological Survey.  
 
Hazardous Waste: A substance or combination of substances, which because of quantity, concentration, or 
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortali-
ty or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness or pose a substantial present or po-
tential hazard to human health, safety, or welfare or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, trans-
ported, used or disposed of, or otherwise managed.  
This term shall include all substances identified as hazardous pursuant to the Hazardous Waste Regulations, 
310 CMR 30.000.  
  
Impervious Surface: Material or structure on, above, or below the ground that does not allow precipitation or 
surface water runoff to penetrate into the soil.  
  
Interim Wellhead Protection Area (IWPA): The MassDEP designated protection radius around a public water 
well that lacks a Zone II.  
===PAGE 159===
159 
 
Junkyard: An establishment that is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, 
or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, as defined in MGL c.140B, s.1.  
 
Landfill: A facility established in accordance with a valid site assignment for the purposes of disposing solid 
waste into or on the land, pursuant to the Solid Waste Regulations, 310 CMR 19.006.  
  
MassDEP: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. MGL: Massachusetts General Law.  
 
Petroleum Product: Includes, but not limited to, fuel oil; gasoline; diesel; kerosene; aviation jet fuel; aviation 
gasoline; lubricating oils; oily sludge; oil refuse; oil mixed with other wastes; crude oils; or other liquid hy-
drocarbons regardless of specific gravity. Petroleum product shall not include liquefied petroleum gas includ-
ing, but not limited to, liquefied natural gas, propane or butane.  
  
Non-Sanitary Wastewater: Wastewater discharges from industrial and commercial facilities containing wastes 
from any activity other than collection of sanitary sewage including, but not limited to, activities specified in 
310 CMR 15.004(6).  
  
Open Dump: A facility operated or maintained in violation of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
42 U.S.C. 4004(a)(b), or state regulations and criteria for solid waste disposal.  
  
Recharge Areas: Land areas, such as a Zone II or an Interim Wellhead Protection Area, where precipitation 
and surface water infiltrates into the ground to replenish groundwater and aquifers used for public drinking 
water supplies.  
  
Septage: The liquid, solid, and semi-solid contents of privies, chemical toilets, cesspools, holding tanks, or 
other sewage waste receptacles. This term shall not include any material that is a hazardous waste, as defined 
by 310 CMR 30.000.  
 
Sludge: The solid, semi-solid, and liquid residue that results from a process of wastewater treatment or drink-
ing water treatment including wastewater residuals. This term shall not include grit, screening, or grease and 
oil which are removed at the headworks of a facility  
 
Treatment Works: Any and all devices, processes and properties, real or personal, used in the collection, 
pumping, transmission, storage, treatment, disposal, recycling, reclamation, or reuse of waterborne pollutants, 
but not including any works receiving a hazardous waste from off the site of the works for the purpose of 
treatment, storage, or disposal.   
 
Utility Works: Regulated activities providing for public services, including roads, water, sewer, electricity, 
gas, telephone, transportation and their associated maintenance activities. This term shall include the install- 
===PAGE 160===
160 
 
-ation of detention and retention basins for the purpose of controlling storm water.   
 
Very Small Quantity Generator: Any public or private entity, other than residential, which produces less than 
27 gallons (100 kilograms) a month of hazardous waste or waste oil, but not including any acutely hazardous 
waste as defined in 310 CMR 30.136.  
 
Waste Oil Retention Facility: A waste oil collection facility for automobile service stations, retail outlets, and 
marinas which is sheltered and has adequate protection to contain a spill, seepage, or discharge of petroleum 
waste products in accordance with MGL c.21. s.52A.   
 
Zone I: A protective radius around a public water supply well or wellfield as approved by MassDEP and de-
fined under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. No parcels or portions of parcels 
within Zone I shall be subject to any regulations imposed by 250-4.9.  
 
Zone II: The delineated recharge area to a public drinking water well as approved by MassDEP and defined 
under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. For the purposes of this § 250-4.9, 
Zone II shall not extend within that area included in Zone I. Accordingly, no parcels or portions of parcels lo-
cated within Zone I are considered to be included within Zone II.   
 
Zone III: An area beyond a Zone II recharge area, as approved by MassDEP and defined under the Massachu-
setts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00.  
 
D. ESTABLISHMENT AND DELINEATION OF WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT  
For the purposes of this bylaw, there are hereby established within the Town of Lunenburg certain water sup-
ply protection areas a Zone I, Zone II, and Zone III which consist of a protective radius around a public water 
supply well or wellfield (Zone I), aquifers or recharge areas (Zone II), and certain protected areas beyond those 
Zone II areas (Zone III). These areas are delineated on a map entitled Lunenburg Water District Aquifer Pro-
tection Zones dated July 2021 which is hereby made part of the Water Supply Protection District Bylaw and is 
on file in the office of the Town Clerk.  
 
E. DISTRICT BOUNDARY DISPUTES   
1. If the location of the Water Supply Protection District in relation to a particular parcel is in doubt, resolu-
tion of the boundary dispute shall be through a Special Permit application to the Special Permit Granting 
Authority. Any application for a special permit for this purpose shall be accompanied by adequate docu-
mentation.  
2. Burden of proof shall be upon the landowner to demonstrate that the location of the Water Supply Protec-
tion District with respect to a particular parcel(s) of land is uncertain. At the request of the landowner, the 
Town may engage a professional engineer, hydrologist, geologist, or soil scientist to determine more accu-
rately the boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District with respect to a particular parcel(s) of land, 
and may charge the owner for the cost of the investigation.  
A. Changes to the Water Supply Protection District require town meeting approval.  
B. Changes to the Zone II boundary require approval from MassDEP.  
===PAGE 161===
161 
 
3. Where the Zone II boundary line of the Water Supply Protection District divides a lot or parcel, the re-
quirements established by this bylaw shall apply to the land 20 feet beyond the Zone II boundary.   
 
F. PERMITTED USES  
1. The following uses are permitted within Zone II and Zone III of the Water Supply Protection District, pro-
vided that all necessary permits, orders, or approvals required by local, state, or federal law are also obtained:  
A. conservation of soil, water, plants, and wildlife;  
B. outdoor recreation, nature study, boating, fishing, and hunting where otherwise legally permitted;  
C. foot, bicycle and/or horse paths, and bridges;  
D. normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards, and other water con-
trol, supply and conservation devices;  
E. maintenance, repair, and enlargement of any existing structure, subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 
250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw;  
F. residential development, subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw;  
G. farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting, and grazing, subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-
4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw;  
H. construction, maintenance, repair, and enlargement of drinking water supply related facilities such as, but 
not limited to, wells, pipelines, aqueducts, and tunnels; and  
I. any use permitted in the underlying zoning by-right or by special permit, except for those uses specifically 
prohibited in § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw.  
 
G. PROHIBITED USES  
1. The following land uses and activities are prohibited in Zone II unless designed in accordance with the spec-
ified performance standards :  
A. landfills and open dumps;  
B. automobile graveyards and junkyards,; 
C. landfills receiving only wastewater residuals and/or septage, including those approved by MassDEP pursu-
ant to MGL c. 21 s.26 through s.53, MGL c.111 s.17, and MGL c.83 s.6 and s.7;   
D. facilities that generate, treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste that are subject to MGL c.21C and 310 
CMR 30.000, except for:   
1. very small quantity generators as defined under 310 CMR 30.000;  
2. household hazardous waste centers and events under 310 CMR 30.390;  
3. waste oil retention facilities required by MGL c. 21, s.52A; and  
4. water remediation treatment works approved by MassDEP for the treatment of contaminated waters.  
E. petroleum, fuel oil, and heating oil bulk stations and terminals including, but not limited to, those listed un-
der North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes 424710 and 454311, except for liquefied 
petroleum gas.   
