===PAGE 162===
162 
 
F.  storage of liquid hazardous materials and/or liquid petroleum products unless such storage is above ground-
level and on an impervious surface and either:  
 
1. in container(s) or above ground tank(s) within a building; or  
2. outdoors in covered container(s) or above ground tank(s) in an area that has a containment system designed 
and operated to hold either; 10% of the total possible storage capacity of all containers or 110% of the larg-
est container’s storage capacity, whichever is greater.  
 
however, these storage requirements shall not apply to the replacement of existing tanks or systems for the 
keeping, dispensing or storing of gasoline provided the replacement is performed in a manner con-
sistent with state and local requirements;  
  
G. storage of sludge and septage, unless such storage is in compliance with 310 CMR 32.30 and 310 CMR 
32.31;  
H. storage of deicing chemicals, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready for ap-
plication, unless such storage, is within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of con-
taminated runoff or leachate;  
I. storage of animal manure, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready for applica-
tion, unless contained within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of contaminated 
runoff or leachate;  
J. storage of commercial fertilizers, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready for 
application, unless such storage is within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of con-
taminated runoff or leachate;  
K. stockpiling and disposal of snow and ice containing deicing chemicals brought in from outside the Water 
Supply Protection District;  
L. earth removal, consisting of the removal of soil, loam, sand, gravel, or any other earth material to within 4 
feet of historical high groundwater as determined from monitoring wells and historical water table fluctua-
tion data compiled by the United States Geological Survey, except for excavations for building founda-
tions, roads, utility works or wetland restoration work conducted in accordance with a valid Order of Con-
dition issued pursuant to MGL c. 131, s.40; and  
M. treatment or disposal works subject to 314 CMR 5.00, for non- sanitary wastewater, including those activi-
ties listed under 310 CMR 15.004(6), except for:  
1. treatment works approved by MassDEP designed for the treatment of contaminated ground or surface wa-
ter and operating in compliance with 314 CMR 5.05(3) or 5.05(13); and  
2. publicly owned treatment works.  
 
 
H. USES AND ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A SPECIAL PERMIT  
 
1. In Zone II the following uses and activities are permitted only upon the issuance of a Special Permit by the 
Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under such conditions as they may require:  
A. enlargement or alteration of existing uses that do not conform to the Water Supply Protection District;  
B. except as prohibited under § 250-4.9 G of this bylaw, activities that involve the handling of toxic or haz-
ardous materials in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use and which are per-
mitted in the underlying zoning district;  
C. rendering impervious any lot or parcel more than 15% or 2,500 square feet, whichever is greater; unless 
artificial recharge, that will not degrade water quality, is provided using methods demonstrated to be capa-
ble of removing contaminants from storm water and which are consistent with methods described in 
MassDEP's Stormwater Handbook, Vol. I, II and III, as amended.  
 
I. PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMIT   
1. The Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under this bylaw shall be the Planning Board. A special per-
mit shall be granted if the SPGA determines, with advisement from the Lunenburg Water District, Building 
Commissioner, Conservation  
===PAGE 163===
163 
 
Commission, Department of Public Works, and Board of Health, that the intent of this bylaw, as well as its 
specific criteria, are met. The SPGA shall not grant a special permit under this section unless the petitioner's 
application materials include, in the SPGA's opinion, sufficiently detailed, definite, and credible information to 
support positive findings in relation to the standards given in this section. The SPGA shall document the basis 
for any departures from the recommendations of the other municipal boards, departments or commissions in its 
decision.  
 
2. Upon receipt of the special permit application, the SPGA shall transmit one copy to the Lunenburg Water 
District, Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, Board of 
Health, and Lunenburg Fire Department. Failure to respond in writing within 35 days of receipt shall be 
considered as no desire to comment. The necessary number of copies of the application shall be furnished 
by the applicant.  
3. The SPGA may grant the required special permit upon finding that the proposed use meets the following 
standards, those standards and requirements specified in § 250-4.9 G of this bylaw, and any regulations or 
guidelines adopted by the SPGA. The proposed use must:  
B. in no way, during construction or thereafter, materially adversely affect the quality or quantity of the water 
supplies protected by the Water Supply Protection District; and  
C. be designed to avoid substantial disturbance of the soils, topography, drainage, vegetation, and other water-
related natural characteristics of the site to be developed, except as depicted on an approved site plan.  
 
4. The SPGA may adopt controls to govern design features of projects. Such controls shall be consistent with 
the Town's subdivision regulations, Site Plan Approval, and Stormwater Bylaws.  
5. The applicant shall file 10 copies of a site plan and attachments. The site plan shall be drawn at a proper 
scale as determined by the SPGA and be stamped by a professional engineer. All additional submittals 
shall be prepared by qualified professionals. The site plan and all supporting materials must meet the re-
quirements outlined in the Planning Board Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permit 
and at a minimum include the following information where pertinent:  
A. a complete list of the categories of chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, fuels, and other potentially 
hazardous materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated with 
normal household use; and  
B. for activities using or storing hazardous materials or wastes, a management plan shall be prepared and filed 
with the Fire Chief and the Board of Health. The plan will be consistent with the standards and require-
ments set forth in § 250-4.9 G above and shall include:  
1. provisions to protect against the discharge of hazardous materials or wastes to the environment 
due to spillage, accidental damage, corrosion, leakage, or vandalism, including spill contain-
ment and clean-up procedures;  
2. provisions for indoor, secured storage of hazardous materials or wastes with impervious floor 
surfaces;  
3. evidence of compliance with the Massachusetts Hazardous Waste Regulations 310 CMR 
30.000; and  
4. proposed down-gradient location(s) for groundwater monitoring well(s), should the SPGA 
deem the activity a potential groundwater threat.  
6. The SPGA shall hold a hearing, in conformity with the provision of MGL c.40A s. 9, within 65 days after 
the filing of the application. Notice of the public hearing shall be given by publication and posting and by 
first-class mailings to "parties of interest" as defined in MGL c.40A s.11. The decision of the SPGA and 
any extension, modification, or renewal thereof shall be filed with the SPGA and Town Clerk within 90 
days following the closing of the public hearing. Failure of the SPGA to act within 90 days shall be 
deemed as a granting of the permit.   
7. If there are material changes to the categories of potentially hazardous materials to be used or stored on the 
premises in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use after the Special Permit has 
been granted, the owner/operator will file updated information on those categories of hazardous materials 
with the Fire Department, the Board of Health, and the Planning Board.   
===PAGE 164===
164 
 
J. USES AND ACTIVITIES PERMITTED BY SITE PLAN REVIEW  
 
1.) In Zone III, the following uses and activities (these are the same uses and activities which are permitted on-
ly by Special Permit in Zone II as detailed in § 250 -4.9 H) are permitted only upon the issuance of Site Plan 
Approval by the Planning Board under such conditions as they may reasonably require.  
A. enlargement or alteration of existing uses that do not conform to the Water Supply Protection District;  
B. except as prohibited under § 250 -4.9 G of this bylaw, activities that involve the handling of toxic or haz-
ardous materials in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use and which are per-
mitted in the underlying zoning district;  
C. rendering impervious any lot or parcel more than 15% or 2,500 square feet, whichever is greater; unless 
artificial recharge, that will not degrade water quality, is provided using methods demonstrated to be capa-
ble of removing contaminants from storm water and which are consistent with methods described in 
MassDEP's Stormwater Handbook, Vol. I, II and III, as amended.  
 
2. Site Plan Approval will be granted, with the input of the Building Commissioner, Board of Health, Conser-
vation Commission, and Department of Public Works, and a determination by the Planning Board that the 
intent of the Bylaw, as well as its specific criteria, are met.  
3. The submitted Site Plan Approval application will comply with the requirements of § 250 -8.4 of this By-
law.  
4. If there are material changes to the categories of potentially hazardous materials to be used or stored on the 
premises in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use after Site Plan Approval is 
granted, the owner/operator will file updated information on those categories of hazardous materials with 
the Fire Department, Board of Health, and the Planning Board.   
 
K. ENFORCEMENT 
 
1. Written notice of any violations of this bylaw shall be given by the Building Commissioner to the responsi-
ble person as soon as possible after detection of a violation or a continuing violation. Notice to the assessed 
owner of the property shall be deemed notice to the responsible person. Such notice shall specify the re-
quirement or restriction violated and the nature of the violation, and may also identify the actions necessary 
to remove or remedy the violations and preventive measures required for avoiding future violations and a 
schedule of compliance.  
2. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Land Use Director, Building Commissioner, Conservation 
Commission, Department of Public Works, and Board of Health. The cost of containment, clean -up, or 
other action of compliance shall be borne by the owner/operator of the premises.  
3. The Building Commissioner may use any portion of Section 250 -8.2 of these Zoning Bylaws to assist in 
the enforcement of the requirements of this Bylaw.  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Deferred   
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT TO Pass Over Article 25.  
  
Town Meeting Adjourned at 3:35 pm.  
===PAGE 165===
165 
 
Excerpts: Special Town Meeting:  November 12, 2024  
  
The meeting was called to order at 7:23PM in the Middle/High School Auditorium. The Moderator de-
clared that we had a quorum present and that the warrant was properly served. We then pledged alle-
giance to the Flag; we were reminded of committee vacancies and the need for volunteers. The Modera-
tor thanked the Town Clerk and Election Workers and Volunteers before introducing the Interim Town 
Manager. After going over the ground rules, the Moderator tested the electronic devices (clickers) to be 
used for voting with practice questions.  
  
ARTICLE 1.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, 
all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted in the FY 2025 Budget, under Article 7 of the May 
4, 2024 Town Meeting. VOTED (Yes 185, No 16, Abstain 4 Total 205) to raise and appropriate the additional 
sum of One Hundred Twenty Five Thousand Dollars and No Cents ($125,000.00) as follows: to line #13A Sal-
ary Reserve, the sum of $17,500.00; and to line #6 Group Health Insurance, the sum of $107,500.00, for a total 
increase of $125,000 in the amount raised and appropriated under Article 7 of the May 4, 2024 Annual Town 
Meeting. Select Board & Finance Committee recommend approval.  
ARTICLE 2:  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate an additional sum of Thirty -One Thousand 
Eight Hundred Eighty-Two Dollars and No Cents ($31,882.00) for the FY25 operating budget for the School 
Department. VOTED (Yes 180, No 25 Total 205) to raise and appropriate the additional sum of Thirty -
One Thousand Eight Hundred Eighty -Two Dollars and No Cents ($31,882.00) to line #S0990991 -517006 
for the FY25 operating budget of the School Department for a total increase of $31,882.00 in the amount 
raised and appropriated under Article 7 of the May 4, 2024 Annual Town Meeting.   Select Board & Fi-
nance Committee recommend Approval.  
 
ARTICLE 3:  To see if the Town will vote to (a) authorize the payment of a so -called “late bill” from FY ’24 
(b) appropriate the sum of Four Thousand One Hundred Eighty Dollars and No Cents ($4,180.00) to pay said 
late bill and (c) meet said appropriation by a transfer from the overlay surplus account. VOTED (Yes 190, No 
8 Abstain 1 Total 199) to (a) authorize the payment of a so-called “late bill” from FY ’24 (b) appropriate 
the sum of Four Thousand One Hundred Eighty Dollars and No Cents ($4,180.00) to pay said late bill 
and (c) meet said appropriation by a transfer from the overlay surplus account.  Select Board & Finance 
Committee recommend Approval.  
  
ARTICLE 4 :  To see if the town will appropriate the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars and No Cents 
($20,000.00) to support the Lunenburg MART Connect Transportation Program as provided on our behalf by 
the Montachusett Area Regional Transportation (MART) organization and administered by the Council on Ag-
ing (CoA) and to meet said appropriation by a transfer of said sum from overlay surplus; VOTED) (Yes 183, 
No 31, Abstain 2 Total 216) to appropriate the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars and No Cents 
($20,000.00) to support the Lunenburg MART Connect Transportation Program as provided on our 
behalf by the Montachusett Area Regional Transportation (MART) organization and administered by 
the Council onAging (CoA) and to meet said appropriation by a transfer of said sum from overlay sur-
plus. Select Board & Finance Committee recommend Approval.  
 
ARTICLE 5 :  To see if the town will vote to accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Law (MGL) 
Chapter 44 Section 54 (b), (c), and (d) to allow the Town ’s trust funds to be invested in accordance with MGL 
Chapter 203C, which is the so called “prudent investment rule ”; or take any other action relative there to. 
VOTED (Yes 208, No 3, Abstain 1 Total 212) to accept the provisions of Massachusetts General Law 
(MGL) Chapter 44 Section 54 (b), (c), and (d) to allow the Town ’s trust funds to be invested in accord-
ance with MGL Chapter 203C, which is the so called “prudent investment rule ”. Finance Committee 
Recommends Approval- 4 Yes 1 Abstain;  Select Board Recommends Approval-4 Yes 1 No.   
 
ARTICLE 6: To see if the Town will vote to accept Clause Seventeenth E and Clause Seventeenth F (both 
relative to the Elderly, Surviving Spouses, or Minor Child of a deceased parent) and Clause Forty -first D 
(relative to the Elderly) of Section 5 of MGL Ch. 59; or take any other action relative thereto. VOTED (Yes 
203, No 6 Abstain 4 Total 213) to accept Clause Seventeenth E and Clause Seventeenth F (both relative 
to the Elderly, Surviving Spouses, or Minor Child of a deceased parent) and Clause Forty-first D  
===PAGE 166===
166 
 
(relative to the Elderly) of Section 5 of MGL Ch. 59. Assessors & Select Board recommend Approval; 
Finance Committee Recommend Approval 4 Yes 1 Abstain.  
  
ARTICLE 7: To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg by deleting Section 250 -4.9, enti-
tled Water Supply Protection District, in its entirety and inserting a new Section 250 -4.9, entitled Water Sup-
ply Protection District, as written below (Zoning Map is the last page in the Voter ’s Guide booklet; VOTED 
w/amendment in italic to Sections C and D (Yes 195, No 16 Abstain 0 Total 211) (Planning Board & Se-
lect Board recommend Approval; Finance Committee No Financial Impact) to amend the Code of 
Lunenburg by deleting Section 250 -4.9, entitled Water Supply Protection District, in its entirety and in-
serting a new Section 250 -4.9, entitled Water Supply Protection District as follows: (The Zoning Map 
was a handout at the meeting – not the last page of the Voters Guide Booklet.)    
 
250-4.9 WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT   
 
A. PURPOSE OF DISTRICT  
The purpose of this Water Supply Protection District is to:  
1. Promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community by ensuring an adequate quality and 
quantity of drinking water for the Town of Lunenburg;  
2. preserve and protect existing and potential sources of drinking water;  
3. Conserve natural resources in the Town of Lunenburg; and  
4. Prevent temporary and permanent contamination of the environment.  
 
  
B. SCOPE OF AUTHORITY  
  
1. The Water Supply Protection District is an overlay district superimposed on the zoning districts. This over-
lay district shall apply to all new construction, reconstruction, or expansion of existing buildings and new 
or expanded uses. Applicable activities and uses in a portion of one of the underlying zoning districts that 
fall within the Water Supply Protection District must additionally comply with the requirements of this by-
law. Uses prohibited in the underlying zoning districts shall not be permitted in the Water Supply Protec-
tion District.  
 
C. DEFINITIONS  
  
Automobile Graveyard: An establishment that is maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or 
selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or motor vehicle parts as defined in MGL c.140B, s.1.  
  
Aquifer: A geologic formation composed of rock, sand or gravel that contains significant amounts of potential-
ly recoverable water.  
  
CMR: Code of Massachusetts Regulations.  
  
Commercial Fertilizer: Any substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients which is used for its 
plant nutrient content and which is designed for use, or claimed to have value in promoting plant growth, ex-
cept un-manipulated animal and vegetable manures, marl, lime, limestone, wood ashes, and gypsum, and other 
products exempted by state regulations.  
 
Contaminated Groundwater: Groundwater containing oil and/or hazardous material at concentrations equal to 
or greater than a release notification threshold established by 310 CMR 40.0300 and 40.1600.  
  
Contaminated Surface Water: Surface water containing oil and/or hazardous material associated with a release 
for which notification is required under 310 CMR 40.0300 and 40.1600.  
 
Discharge: The accidental or intentional disposal, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, pouring, or 
placing of toxic or hazardous material or hazardous waste upon or into any land or water such that it may enter 
the surface or ground waters.   
===PAGE 167===
167 
 
Dry Well: A subsurface pit with open-jointed lining or holes through which storm - water drainage from roofs, 
basement floors, foundations, or other areas seep into the surrounding soil.  
  
Water Supply Protection District : The land area consisting of aquifers, Zone II recharge areas, and Zone III 
areas, all as approved by MassDEP and identified on a map and adopted pursuant to this bylaw.  
  
Hazardous Material: Any substance in any form which because of its quantity, concentration, or its chemical, 
corrosive, flammable, reactive, toxic, infectious or radioactive characteristics, either separately or in combina-
tion with one or more substances, constitutes a present or potential threat to human health, safety, welfare, or 
to the environment, when improperly stored, treated, transported, disposed of, used, or otherwise managed. 
Hazardous material includes, without limitation, synthetic organic chemicals, petroleum products, heavy met-
als, radioactive or infectious materials, and all substances defined as toxic or hazardous under MGL c. 21E. 
This term shall not include hazardous waste or oil.  
  
Historical High Groundwater Table Elevation: A groundwater elevation determined from monitoring wells and 
historical water table fluctuation data compiled by the United States Geological Survey.  
  
Hazardous Waste : A substance or combination of substances, which because of quantity, concentration, or 
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortali-
ty or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness or pose a substantial present or po-
tential hazard to human health, safety, or welfare or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, trans-
ported, used or disposed of, or otherwise managed. This term shall include all substances identified as hazard-
ous pursuant to the Hazardous Waste Regulations, 310 CMR 30.000.  
 
Impervious Surface: Material or structure on, above, or below the ground that does not allow precipitation or 
surface water runoff to penetrate into the soil.  
  
Interim Wellhead Protection Area (IWPA) : The MassDEP designated protection radius around a public water 
well that lacks a Zone II.  
  
Junkyard: An establishment that is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, 
or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, as defined in MGL c.140B, s.1.  
  
Landfill: A facility established in accordance with a valid site assignment for the purposes of disposing solid 
waste into or on the land, pursuant to the Solid Waste  
Regulations, 310 CMR 19.006.  
  
MassDEP: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. MGL: Massachusetts General Law.  
  
Petroleum Product: Includes, but not limited to, fuel oil; gasoline; diesel; kerosene; aviation jet fuel; aviation 
gasoline; lubricating oils; oily sludge; oil refuse; oil mixed with other wastes; crude oils; or other liquid hydro-
carbons regardless of specific gravity. Petroleum product shall not include liquefied petroleum gas including, 
but not limited to, liquefied natural gas, propane, or butane.  
  
Non-Sanitary Wastewater: Wastewater discharges from industrial and commercial facilities containing wastes 
from any activity other than collection of sanitary sewage including, but not limited to, activities specified in 
310 CMR 15.004(6).  
  
Open Dump: A facility operated or maintained in violation of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 42 
U.S.C. 4004(a)(b), or state regulations and criteria for solid waste disposal.  
  
Recharge Areas: Land areas, such as a Zone II or an Interim Wellhead Protection Area, where precipitation 
and surface water infiltrates into the ground to replenish groundwater and aquifers used for public drinking 
water supplies.  
 
===PAGE 168===
168 
 
Septage: The liquid, solid, and semi -solid contents of privies, chemical toilets, cesspools, holding tanks, or 
other sewage waste receptacles. This term shall not include any material that is a hazardous waste, as defined 
by 310 CMR 30.000.  
  
Sludge: The solid, semi -solid, and liquid residue that results from a process of wastewater treatment or drink-
ing water treatment including wastewater residuals. This term shall not include grit, screening, or grease and 
oil which are removed at the headworks of a facility.  
  
Treatment Works : Any and all devices, processes and properties, real or personal, used in the collection, 
pumping, transmission, storage, treatment, disposal, recycling, reclamation, or reuse of waterborne pollutants, 
but not including any works receiving a hazardous waste from off the site of the works for the purpose of treat-
ment, storage, or disposal.  
  
Utility Works : Regulated activities providing for public services, including roads, water, sewer, electricity, 
gas, telephone, transportation, and their associated maintenance activities. This term shall include the installa-
tion of detention and retention basins for the purpose of controlling storm water.  
  
Very Small Quantity Generator : Any public or private entity, other than residential, which produces less than 
27 gallons (100 kilograms) a month of hazardous waste or waste oil, but not including any acutely hazardous 
waste as defined in 310 CMR 30.136.  
  
Waste Oil Retention Facility : A waste oil collection facility for automobile service stations, retail outlets, and 
marinas which is sheltered and has adequate protection to contain a spill, seepage, or discharge of petroleum 
waste products in accordance with MGL c.21. s.52A.  
  
Zone I: A protective radius around a public water supply well or wellfield as approved by MassDEP and de-
fined under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. “provided, however, that Zone 1 
ends at the water ’s edge and does not extend into the waters of Hickory Hills Lake, Lake Shirley or Whalom 
Lake.”  
  
Zone II: The delineated recharge area to a public drinking water well as approved by MassDEP and defined 
under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR  22.00. For the purposes of this § 250 -4.9, 
Zone II shall not extend within that area included in Zone I. Accordingly, no parcels or portions of parcels lo-
cated within Zone I are considered to be included within Zone II.  
 
Zone III: An area beyond a Zone II recharge area, as approved by MassDEP and defined under the Massachu-
setts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00.  
 
D. ESTABLISHMENT AND DELINEATION OF WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT  
 
For the purposes of this bylaw, there are hereby established within the Town of Lunenburg certain water sup-
ply protection areas a Zone I, Zone II, and Zone III which consist of a protective radius around a public water 
supply well or wellfield (Zone I), aquifers or recharge areas (Zone II), and certain protected areas beyond those 
Zone II areas (Zone III).   These areas are delineated on a map entitled Lunenburg Water District Aquifer Pro-
tection Zones dated July 2021 which is hereby made part of the Water Supply Protection District Bylaw and is 
on file in the office of the Town Clerk. Provided, however,  Zone 1 ends at the water ’s edge and does not ex-
tend into the waters of Hickory Hills Lake, Lake Shirley or Whalom Lake.  
 
E. DISTRICT BOUNDARY DISPUTES  
 
1. If the location of the Water Supply Protection District in relation to a particular parcel is in doubt, resolu-
tion of the boundary dispute shall be through a Special Permit application to the Special Permit Granting 
Authority. Any application for a special permit for this purpose shall be accompanied by adequate docu-
mentation.  
 
===PAGE 169===
169 
 
2. Burden of proof shall be upon the landowner to demonstrate that the location of the Water Supply Protec-
tion District with respect to a particular parcel(s) of land is uncertain. At the request of the landowner, the 
Town may engage a professional engineer, hydrologist, geologist, or soil scientist to determine more accu-
rately the boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District with respect to a particular parcel(s) of land, 
and may charge the owner for the cost of the investigation.  
 A.   Changes to the Water Supply Protection District require town meeting approval.  
 B. Changes to the Zone II boundary require approval from the MassDEP.   
3. Where the Zone II boundary line of the Water Supply Protection District divides  a lot or parcel, the re-
quirements established by this bylaw shall apply to the land   twenty (20) feet beyond the Zone II bounda-
ry.  
 
F. PERMITTED USES  
 
1. Irrespective of the permitted uses in the underlying district, only the following uses are permitted within 
Zone I or Zone II of the Water Supply Protection District except as may also be allowed by Special Permit 
in § 250-4.9 H. This same restriction does not apply to Zone III.  
2. The following uses are permitted within Zone I:  
A. Conservation of soil, water, plants, and wildlife;  
B. Outdoor recreation, nature study, swimming, boating, fishing, and hunting where otherwise le-
gally permitted;  
C. Raised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths, and bridges;  
D. Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards, and other 
water control, supply, and conservation devices;  
E. Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provision of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in cover-
age of more than 15% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
F. Maintenance and repair of existing drinking water supply related works such as, but not limited 
to, wells, pipelines, aqueducts, and tunnels.  
G. Removing non-native, nuisance, or invasive species, interplanting native species, and control-
ling species in a manner approved by Mass DEP that preserves drinking water quality and mini-
mizes damage to surrounding, non- target species.  
H. Maintaining vegetation as approved by MassDEP including pruning, trimming, cutting, mow-
ing, and removing brush to prevent, control, and manage hazards, disease, insect, or fire dam-
age, and to preserve drinking water quality and maintain the condition of the premises.   
 
3. The following uses are permitted within Zone II and Zone III of the Water Supply Protection District, pro-
vided that all necessary permits, orders, or approvals required by local, state, or federal law are also ob-
tained:   
A. conservation of soil, water, plants, and wildlife;  
B. outdoor recreation, nature study, boating, fishing, and hunting where otherwise legally permit-
ted;  
C. foot, bicycle and/or horse paths, and bridges;  
D. normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards, and other 
water control, supply, and conservation devices;  
E. maintenance, repair, and enlargement of any existing structure, subject to § 250 -4.9 G, § 250 -
4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw;  
F. residential development, subject to § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning By-
law;  
G. farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting, and grazing, subject to § 250 -
4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw;  
H. construction, maintenance, repair, and enlargement of existing drinking water supply related 
facilities such as, but not limited to, wells, pipelines, aqueducts, and tunnels but shall not in-
clude construction of new treatment works and related;  
I. Water Remediation Treatment works approved by MassDEP designed for the treatment of con-
taminated ground or surface water operating in compliance with 314 CMR 5.05(3).  
===PAGE 170===
170 
 
J. any use permitted in the underlying zoning by -right or by special permit, except for those uses 
specifically prohibited in § 250-4.9 G, § 250-4.9 H and § 250-4.9 J of this Zoning Bylaw.   
 
G. PROHIBITED USES  
 
1. The following land uses and activities are prohibited in Zone II unless designed in accordance with the 
specified performance standards :  
A. landfills and open dumps;  
B. automobile graveyards and junkyards,;  
C. landfills receiving only wastewater residuals and/or septage, including those approved by 
MassDEP pursuant to MGL c. 21 s.26 through s.53, MGL c.111 s.17, and MGL c.83 s.6 and 
s.7;  
D. facilities that generate, treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste that are subject to MGL c.21C 
and 310 CMR 30.000, except for:  
 1. very small quantity generators as defined under 310 CMR 30.000;  
 2. household hazardous waste centers and events under 310 CMR 30.390;  
 3. waste oil retention facilities required by MGL c. 21, s.52A; and  
 4. water remediation treatment works approved by MassDEP for the treatment of contaminated 
waters subject to § 250- 4.9 H.  
E. petroleum, fuel oil, and heating oil bulk stations and terminals including, but not limited to 
those listed under North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes 424710 and 
454311, except for liquefied petroleum gas.  
F. storage of liquid hazardous materials and/or liquid petroleum products unless such storage is 
above ground level and on an impervious surface and either:  
      1. in container(s) or above ground tank(s) within a building; or  
       2.outdoors in covered container(s) or above ground tank(s) in an area that has a containment 
  system designed and operated to hold either; 10% of the total possible storage capacity of all 
  containers or 110% of the largest container ’s storage capacity, whichever is greater. However, 
  these storage requirements shall not apply to the replacement of existing tanks or systems for 
  the keeping, dispensing, or storing of gasoline provided the replacement is performed in a man
  ner consistent with state and local requirements;  
G. storage of sludge and septage, unless such storage is in compliance with 310 CMR 32.30 and 
310 CMR 32.31;  
H. storage of deicing chemicals, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and 
ready for application, unless such storage, is within a structure designed to prevent the genera-
tion and escape of contaminated runoff or leachate;  
I. storage of animal manure, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready 
for application, unless contained within a structure designed to prevent the generation and es-
cape of contaminated runoff or leachate;  
J. storage of commercial fertilizers, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and 
ready for application, unless such storage is within a structure designed to prevent the genera-
tion and escape of contaminated runoff or leachate;  
K. stockpiling and disposal of snow and ice containing deicing chemicals brought in from outside 
the Water Supply Protection District;  
L. earth removal, consisting of the removal of soil, loam, sand, gravel, or any other earth material 
to within 4 feet of historical high groundwater as determined from monitoring wells and histori-
cal water table fluctuation data compiled by the United States Geological Survey, except for 
excavations for building foundations, roads, utility works or wetland restoration work conduct-
ed in accordance with a valid Order of Condition issued pursuant to MGL c. 131, s.40; and  
M. treatment or disposal works subject to 314 CMR 5.00, for non - sanitary wastewater, including 
those activities listed under 310 CMR 15.004(6), except for:  
1. treatment works approved by MassDEP designed for the treatment of contaminated ground 
or surface water and operating in compliance with 314 CMR 5.05(3) or 5.05(13) subject to 
§ 250-4.9 H; and   
2. publicly owned treatment works subject to § 250-4.9 H.   
===PAGE 171===
171 
 
H. USES AND ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A SPECIAL PERMIT  
 
1. In Zone I the following uses and activities are permitted only upon the issuance of a Special Permit by the 
Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under such conditions as they may require:  
A. Construction of new treatment works and related structures.  
B. Water remediation treatment works except as expressly permitted in Section 250-4.9F(1)(i)  
C. Publicly owned treatment works.  
D. Construction of new water treatment works.  
 
2. In Zone II, the following uses and activities are permitted only upon the issuance of a Special Permit by the 
Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under such conditions as they may require:  
A. enlargement or alteration of existing uses that do not conform to the Water Supply Protection 
District;  
B. except as prohibited under § 250-4.9 G of this bylaw, activities that involve the handling of tox-
ic or hazardous materials in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use, 
and which are permitted in the underlying zoning district;  
C. rendering impervious any lot or parcel more than 15% or 2,500 square feet, whichever is great-
er; unless artificial recharge, that will not degrade water quality, is provided using methods 
demonstrated to be capable of removing contaminants from storm water and which are con-
sistent with methods described in MassDEP's Stormwater Handbook, Vol. I, II and III, as 
amended.  
D. Construction of new treatment works and related structures.  
E. Water remediation treatment works except as expressly permitted in Section 250-4.9F(1)(i)  
F. Publicly owned treatment works.  
G. Construction of new water treatment works. 
 
I. PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMIT PURSUANT TO § 250-4.9   
 
1.  The Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under this bylaw shall be the Planning Board. A special 
permit shall be granted if the SPGA determines, with advisement from the Lunenburg Water District, 
Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, and Board of Health, 
that the intent of this bylaw, as well as its specific criteria, are met. The SPGA shall not grant a special per-
mit under this section unless the petitioner's application materials include, in the SPGA's opinion, suffi-
ciently detailed, definite, and credible information to support positive findings in relation to the standards 
given in this section. The SPGA shall document the basis for any departures from the recommendations of 
the other municipal boards, departments, or commissions in its decision.  
2. Upon receipt of the special permit application, the SPGA shall transmit one copy to the Lunenburg Water 
District, Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, Board of 
Health, and Lunenburg Fire Department. Failure to respond in writing within 35 days of receipt shall be 
considered as no desire to comment. The necessary number of copies of the application shall be furnished 
by the applicant.  
3. The SPGA may grant the required special permit upon finding that the proposed use meets the following 
standards, those standards and requirements specified in § 250 -4.9 G of this bylaw, and any regulations or 
guidelines adopted by the SPGA. The proposed use must:   
A. in no way, during construction or thereafter, materially adversely affect the quality or quantity 
of the water supplies protected by the Water Supply Protection District; and  
B. be designed to avoid substantial disturbance of the soils, topography, drainage, vegetation, and 
other water-related natural characteristics of the site to be developed, except as depicted on an 
approved site plan.   
4.  The SPGA may adopt controls to govern design features of projects. Such controls shall be consistent with 
the Town's subdivision regulations, Site Plan Approval, and Stormwater Bylaws.   
===PAGE 172===
172 
 
 

===PAGE 173===
173 
 
 

===PAGE 174===
174 
 
 
 

===PAGE 175===
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 176===
176 
 
 

===PAGE 177===
177 
 
 

===PAGE 178===
178 
 
 

===PAGE 179===
179 
 

===PAGE 180===
180 
 

===PAGE 181===
181 
 

===PAGE 182===
182 
 

===PAGE 183===
183 
 
 

===PAGE 184===
184 
 
 

===PAGE 185===
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MISCELLANEOUS  
INFORMATION  
===PAGE 186===
186 
 
 
 2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 187===
187 
 
 
2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 188===
188 
 
 
 2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 189===
189 
 
 
 2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 190===
190 
 
 
 2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 191===
191 
 
 
 2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 192===
192 
 
 
 2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 193===
193 
 
2024 GROSS WAGES 
===PAGE 194===
194 
 
      
       
(Please check the Town Website for any changes/updates to office /tours or meetings.) 
 
     
       
      
     
       
     
         
   
       
    
 
    
       
   
       
    978-505-2461 
FACILITES DIRECTOR (Chris 
Ruth) 
    
LIBRARY     
       
     
    978-582-4134 
    Tues./Thurs. 8 AM - 6 PM   
     
    Tues./Thurs.. 8 AM - 6 PM   
 By Appointment I 978-265-6540 
   By Appointment I 617-763-3018 
   
       
  
 
      
    978-582-4155 
     
     
       
     
    978-582-4130/413 I 
    Tues./Thurs. 8 AM - 1 PM; 3- 6 PM   
   
       
     
       
  978-582-8290 
   
 
978-582-4143 x 
421 
===PAGE 195===
195 
 