===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Per Chris' email to Rich: Mrs. Lane has hired LandVest to help find the next owner(s), and we nave just
listed it for sale this week. We are reaching out to conservation groups and the Town to see if there
might be a way to protect a significant portion of the property as part of or following the sale by Mrs.
Lane. I'm working with Keith Ross at LandVest on this, and he and I both would love to find a way to craft
such an arrangement and have a few ideas we are working on.
In the meantime, I did want to let you know about this property and would appreciate a chance to talk
with you about town politics, community interest, and our ideas for finding the right deal structure for
this beautiful property. Specifics: asking price is $2,550,000. That includes the house and approximately 310
acres.
Ms. Morrison attended to give perspectives on strategic land protection alternatives.
The Open Space Committee decided that there are benefits in pursuing protection of some open space portion of
the property; particularly important would be meaningful public access that might be provided on the property
and/or through it to the Town Forest. Several members of the Conservation Commission and the Open Space
Committee recalled that Mrs. Lane had verbally indicated in the past that she was interested in protecting the
property as open space for the town. We requested that Mr. Rodstrom determine the Trust's willingness to
permit the members to walk the land, and the Trust's level of interest in protecting some portion of the land with
the Conservation Commission. Mr. Rodstrom was asked to provide us with hard copies of the brochure or other
related materials. The OS Committee would be willing to put together grant applications and engage in dialogue
with the Trust on a strategy and proposal that would be achievable for the town, and beneficial for both parties
provided that the Trust would be willing to negotiate with us. A follow-up meeting inviting the chairpersons of the
Planning Board and the Board of Selectmen was subsequently scheduled for August 19. Tom Alonzo of the BOS
attended.
