===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
b. Priority agenda items for Mr. Lattanzi are as follows. He will draft a report for the Open Space
Committee's review.
1. Establish the Agricultural Commission
2. Draft the Right To Farm Bylaw for Conservation Commission review and approval in time for
next Town Meeting, hopefully Special TM this fall; the Conservation Commission will submit the bylaw to the BOS
for their warrant approval. Note: the Conservation Commission intends to place the Pleasant St. regrading project
on the Town Meeting agenda adjacent to the RTF Bylaw, as both are in support of the Open Space Plan.
3. Improve management processes for town lands now in agricultural use, specifically related to
bid processes standardization, fairness & monitoring; primarily for Woodruff Farm, Hunting Hill and Pleasant St.
2. Recreational Trails Program Update
Mr. Kibbe provided a status on the trail mapping project which is under the direction of the Montachusett
Regional Planning Commission. He has created a draft of the Clark Hill walking trail and has met with the DPW to
discuss bikeways in the town.
3. Open Space Plan Priorities
a. As discussed at the meeting, we have met or have in progress several goals as established the OS Plan
Five-Year Action Plan. Specifically, the Agricultural Commission and Right to Farm bylaw support our #1
objective "Keep Lunenburg's Farms Viable," and is in fact two years ahead of schedule. The trail mapping effort
supports Goal 2, "Improve Community Awareness," and is on schedule.
b. Several of our objectives are intended to further the review and acquisition of open space that meet our
criteria as properties of conservation interest, and position us to take advantage of matching grant opportunities,
which the Open Space Plan now makes us eligible for. Given resource constraints, we prioritized our action items
- the creation of a Forest Stewardship Plan (Goal 2.C.1, 2.D.2)
- the Pleasant St. re-grading project (Goal 2.D)
- implement a tracking process for Chapter 61 properties (Goal 1.B.1)
- identify properties of the highest open space resource value with the Conservation Commission,
and develop landowner dialogue guidelines and tools regarding the benefits of APR/CR programs and donations to
protect farmland and open space (Meets Goals 1.B.3, 1.B.4, 2.C.1 & 2.D.3)
