===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Open Space Acquisition Advisory Team 
Minutes 
April 10, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
 
Members Present:  Paula Bertram (Board of Selectmen), Brandon Kibbe  (Open Space Ad Hoc 
Committee), Jean-Joseph Cote (Conservation Commission), Emerick Bakaysa (Planning Board) 
 
Members Absent:  none 
 
Meeting Called to Order:  5:37pm 
 
1. Brandon Kibbe reported that the Purchase and Sale Contract had been signed by the 
seller.  Emerick Bakaysa noted that the agreement was undated, and BK reported that 
Town Counsel and seller’s attorney also noted that deficiency, along with the missing 
Exhibit A map, which issues were being rectified. 
2. Brandon Kibbe updated the committee on the status of the appraisal.  BK met with Ken 
Croft of the The Foster Company (Leominster, MA) on site on Wednesday, May 2, to 
inspect the premises.  Mr. Croft spent 3 hours on the property, and conducted a very 
thorough inspection.  Mr. Croft indicated that t he appraisal may be ready in advance of 
the April 24th due date.   
3. Brandon Kibbe reported that he spent an additional 2 hours on the property on May 2 
collecting photographs and GPS points pertaining to specific historic resources on the 
property for the L AND Grant’s required submission to the Massachusetts Historic 
Commission.  Several sites were located, including the likely sites of the grist mill and 
saw mills that were depicted on the 1795 map of town. 
4. Brandon Kibbe described a grant opportunity with t he Fields Pond Foundation.  
Municipalities are eligible, and the foundation particularly likes to fund projects that 
support public access to open space; typical grants range from $2,000 to $10,000, with a 
maximum award of $25,000.  BK outlined parking lot  development, trail marking, forest 
stewardship planning, and signage as possible components of an application, all of 
which are also requirements of the LAND Grant.  BK has approached Monty Tech 
===PAGE 2===
carpentry program about building a trailhead kiosk, and plan s for such a kiosk were 
circulated.  Tom Bertram of the Lunenburg Snowriders described the club’s interest in 
assisting with manpower and machinery for such activities as well, and said the club 
wanted assurances that the multi-use trails currently on the property would continue to 
be available for snowmobile use.  BK reported that the LAND Grant does not specifically 
exclude snowmobile trails, and the Cons Comm policies allow for snowmobile use on 
designated trails on commission properties.  The expectatio n is that the mulit -use trails 
would remain critical assets to the Lane conservation property.  Mr. Bertram agreed to 
join BK on site on Sunday, April 13th, 9:00 am to inspect the area under consideration for 
parking area development to consider what may n eed to be done and what it may cost 
to develop the area for parking.   Brandon Kibbe will be before the Conservation 
Commission at 8:00pm, April 16th to discuss all of these matters. 
5. Paula Bertram invited all to join the Hickory Hills Lake Management team a t their “Taste 
of Southern Comfort” dinner on Saturday, April 12 th, 6:30pm .  PB distributed a draft 
postcard for distribution at the event aimed at informing Hickory Hills residents about 
the importance of the Lane property conservation effort.  The commit tee reviewed and 
edited the postcard, and PB, BK, and Elizabeth Ainsley Campbell of the Nashua River 
Watershed Association agreed to put those edits into a final version for distribution at 
the event. 
6. Elizabeth Ainsley Campbell also distributed a flyer mea nt to be distributed publicly to 
inform residents of the conservation opportunity at the Lane property.  The committee 
similarly edited the flyer as a group, and EAC would incorporate those edits into a final 
version and would have 150 copies made also in advance of the Hickory Hills event on 
Saturday evening.  The flyer was also modified to become an ad that would be aimed to 
run in the town -wide distribution of the Lunenburg Ledger.  Tom Bertram agreed that 
the Lunenburg Snowriders would cover the cost of  running the ad.  Brandon Kibbe also 
agreed to draft a press release to run with the ad. 
7. Elizabeth Ainsley Campbell also distributed a “Frequently Asked Questions” flyer, but 
the committee decided that the material was too dense to be discussed as a group at 
that point.  All agreed to review and edit in advance of the next meeting. 
8. The next meeting of the Open Space Acquisition Advisory Team was set for 5:30pm, 
Thursday, April 17, 2014. 
9. The committee reviewed and approved the minutes from the March 27, 2014 meeting. 
 
Meeting Adjourned:  8:07pm 