===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Open Space Acquisition Advisory Team
Minutes
April 17, 2014
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA
Members Present: Paula Bertram (Board of Selectmen), Brandon Kibbe (Open Space Ad Hoc
Committee), Jean-Joseph Cote (Conservation Commission), Emerick Bakaysa (Planning Board)
Members Absent: none
Meeting Called to Order: 5:44pm
1. Elizabeth Ainsley Campbell of the Nashua River Watershed Association presented copies
of the draft front page of a public information website being developed for the project:
www.SaveTheLaneLand.org. The committee reviewed and edited the content of the
website so that it could be prepared to "go live" over the weekend.
2. Elizabeth Ainsley Campbell presented a draft "Frequently Asked Questions" that would
be available both in printed form and on the website. The committee reviewed and
edited the content of the FAQ's.
3. The committee discussed the plans for Saturday's site visit. J-J Cote and Brandon Kibbe
will lead attendees on a similar walk to that given to the joint boards back in December,
depending upon turnout and attendees. NRWA provided copies of the previously-
prepared fliers for distribution to attendees.
4. Brandon Kibbe reported on the creation of the Public Service Announcement made with
the assistance of Lunenburg Public Access. The final video was screened for the
committee via LPA's YouTube Channel. Brandon Kibbe will share the airing schedule
once released by LPA.
5. The committee discussed the feedback they've heard from citizens to date. Public
awareness appears to be growing, and public support seems strong. Committee
discussed the financial explanation of fiscal impact of development vs. conservation, as
that was one area where community members had questions. Committee agreed to
focus on a general description of the long-term cost of residential development being a
===PAGE 2===
7. The next meeting of the Open Space Acquisition Advisory Team was set for 5:30pm,
Thursday, April 24, 2014.
8. The committee reviewed and approved the minutes from the April 10, 2014 meeting,
with a minor edit to item #6: Lunenburg Snowriders agreed to pay for the Lunenburg
Ledger ad "up to $100".
Meeting Adjourned: 8:30pm
