===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
 
Brandon Kibbe    Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Bob Pease    Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Karin Menard    
Richard Brockelman 
Sarah Cammer 
Ashley Maillet     
 
  
OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE 
MINUTES 
November 7, 2018  
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
Time:  7:30 PM 
Members Present: Brandon Kibbe, David Prokowiew, Sarah Cammer, Karin Menard, Richard Brockelman 
Absent: Ashley Maillet, Bob Pease (Conservation Commission meeting) 
 
Meeting called to order at 7:31 pm. 
 
David Prokowiew announced that the Pla nning Board had voted to appoint Ashley Maillet as a Member -At-Large 
on the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee. 
 
The Minutes of October 24, 2018 were reviewed  and accepted as amended (Sara h Cammer updating Section 7 
instead of Section 6). 
 
Brandon Kibbe had recently sent out a 2018 open space update plan draft and asked members to submit any 
comments and/or suggestions as soon as possible after reviewing the draft. 
 
Members were distributed draft copies of Sections 6: Community Vision and Section 7: Analysis of Needs , along 
with the DCS (Division of Conservation Services) guidelines for these sections. Brandon Kibbe stated that in his 
revision of these sections h e had tried to make them more reflective of the DCS guidelines. He took objectives 
from the public and the survey results and came up with a statement of four Open Space and Recreation Goals 
(Section 6B): 
 
 Enhance and promote existing open space and recreation assets, i.e. the use of general municipal land; 
 Preserve the most critical natural resources which included results from the survey that residents highly 
valued – farmland, conservation land, drinking water, wildlife habitats and recreation areas. Bra ndon 
Kibbe stated that the Action Plan Map would depict the acquisition priority areas; 
 Expand access to conservation and recreation resources. Adding new acquisition areas; 
 Diversify funding sources: Getting into the Capital Plan, possible passage of the Community Preservation 
Act, by updating the Open Space and Recreation Plan making the town eligible for state grants. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 11.07.18 
Page 2 
 
(Section 7) 
 
Sarah Cammer described her rewrite of Section 7 and some changes she would be adding such as adding  to some 
of the sub sections of Section 7 references to  some of the included maps and  to Section 4 that identify areas of 
interest. In Summary of Community Needs she will put more information gathered from the survey. 
 
The committee members discussed the possible conversion of general municipal lands to other uses such as 
conservation or recreation. Karin Menard stated that there was a need for better communication between the 
various town boards. David Prokowiew suggested that the Ad Hoc Committee meet on a more regular schedule in 
the future, perhaps bi-monthly. 
 
The Committee entered into a brainstorming session on developing an outline of Section 8: Goals and Objectives 
and how to move these goals and objectives into specifics of the action plan Section 9. Some examples coming out 
of the session was that under Enhance and Promote Existing Open Space and Recreation Assets would include; the 
reuse and development of Marshall Park, trail marking and maps and ADA accessibility, under Preserve the Most 
Critical Natural Resources would include; continue to evaluate Chapter 61 withdrawals, under Diversify funding 
sources include; expand partnership with local land trusts. 
 
Bob Pease joined the meeting at 8:15 pm after the conclusion of the Conservation Commi ssion meeting. Brandon 
Kibbe summarized the meeting up to this point for him. 
 
There was a discussion concerning the funding of the Parks and Recreation Department coming under the Capital 
Plan and whether to include this under Enhance and promote open space and recreation assets or under Diversify 
funding sources. Karin Menard gave several examples of funding problems affecting the department.  
 
David Prokowiew suggested that if some municipal propert ies were sold that the money might be put into some 
kind of dedicated slush fund. Bob Pease , as treasurer for the Conservation Commission , described the various 
funds of that Commission and how those funds may be used. 
 
Brandon Kibbe will take the information gathered from tonight’s meeting and any additional ideas members might 
come up with and he will format that into an action plan. At the next meeting we will finish up the plan and send 
the draft to the appropriate boards and department heads. 
 
Sarah Cammer announced that she had completed her update of Section 7 and would be sending it out. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:49 pm. 