===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Brandon Kibbe 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Bob Pease 978-582-4147 extension 5 
Dennis Mannone 
Richard Brockelman  
Sarah Cammer 
 
MINUTES 
August 22, 2018  
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:30 PM 
Present:  Brandon Kibbe, David Prokowiew, Richard Brockelman, Sarah Cammer 
Absent:  Bob Pease, Dennis Mannone 
Also Present:  Rich Bursch, Conservation Commission, Karin Menard, Parks Commission, David Passios and Rhonda Lisio 
of the general public 
 
Meeting called to order at approximately 7:37pm 
 
Minutes of June Meeting accepted as amended (all Aye). 
 
Brandon Kibbe went over the maps he's updated and committed to making them available via Drop Box.  Action Plan 
maps and Prime Agricultural Soils map still to come. 
 
Karin Menard stated that Dennis Mannone, who was absent, had been working on updated version of Recreation Lands 
Map. 
 
David Prokowiew proposed , and will  work on , a narrative with Brandon Kibbe describing accomplishments of the 
Committee since last update. 
 
Karin Menard agreed to tabulate survey data in spreadsheet format. 
 
Brandon Kibbe will add an item to the September 26, 2018 meeting agenda:  Tabulate data and discuss trends. 
 
Discussion about Survey Application:  Down the road, we could build out with GPS data, but this would require an 
investment in capital, for cloud storage, etc.  For the time being, we will concentrate on deploying it to get good a sset 
data- extend users, improve condition reporting.   
 
Richard Bursch stated that the following properties are expected to be ADA compliant by the end of the year - The Lane 
Property, Small Town Forest, Robbs Hill.  Brandon Kibbe and Karin Menard led disc ussion about determining future ADA 
improvement targets, and Brandon Kibbe stated that this is the point of the Self Evaluation.  Guidelines and forms are 
available online. 
 
Sarah Cammer will check with the DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz on sidewalk questions. 
 
Meeting Adjourned at 8:17pm 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
06/19/18 Minutes 
Draft Maps 
 