===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Brandon Kibbe 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Bob Pease 978-582-4147 extension 5 
Richard Brockelman  
 
 
 
 
MINUTES 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
June 19, 2018  
Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
 
Open Space Committee:  Present- Brandon Kibbe, David Prokowiew, Bob Pease, Richard Brockelman, 
Absent- Todd Dwyer 
 
Others present:  Rich Bursch of the Conservation Commission, Karin Menard and Dennis Mannone of the 
Parks Commission, Janice Carrier, Mr. Menard and Sarah Cammer of the general public 
 
Meeting Called to order approximately 7:45pm 
 
Minutes of May 30, 2018 accepted as amended (Motion Dave P., Second Bob Pease, All Aye) 
 
The Open Space Plan was divided up into sections for editing at the previous meeting (May 30th).  The 
members provided updates on their work to date on their assigned sections of the Open Space Plan (the 
document). 
 
David Prokowiew- Estimate of $300.00 to include survey with outgoing tax bills was accepted by Adam 
Burney, Director of the Planning Department. The survey made it to print on time and will be included.  
Mr. Burney also created a .pdf version and a live version on Survey Monkey to solicit further responses 
from the general public.  Editing progresses on the first section of the document including updating 
narrative and charts and graphs with updated census data.  Also talked to A. Burney about possibly 
creating an Open Space Implementation Committee to ensure recommendations are put into action. 
 
Richard Brockelman- Continuing progress on updating information in the Population Characteristics 
section with updated census data from various sources.   Brandon Kibbe suggests Mr. Prokowiew and Mr. 
Brockelman team up to avoid duplicate efforts. 
 
Bob Pease- Evaluating and editing of environmental impact and analysis section continues.  Recent 
updates should include the discovery of Blanding's Turtles found in the Large Town Forest, Foresting in the 
Small Town Forest.  Mr. Pease proposes for consideration, bringing Recreation Commission member into 
the Open Space Committee. 
 
Present Parks Commission members agree and would like to be a part of the ongoing efforts.  
 
Mr. Kibbe introduced another possible At Large member, Sarah Cammer, who has specific expertise in 
water analysis and watershed mapping experience that could inform our efforts on the Open Space Plan.  
She is also a public school teacher. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Richard Bursch has an appointment to meet with Town Assessor Harald Scheid to review and update data 
in the GIS system to ensure land codes are accurate and up to date, descriptions are universal across 
platforms.  Five new properties have been added to the lands under protection by the Conservation 
Commission including the Lane property, two parcels on Page St.  He also did some prioritization work on 
some connecting pieces throughout town.  Mr. Kibbe talked about possibly talking to DCR about a joint 
forest management plan, which would allow the town to gain access to certain parcels adjacent to the 
state forest, but without their own frontage in the northwest corner of town.  Mr. Bursch also noted some 
errors in descriptions of parks and control including around the western edge of the Whalom lakefront, 
which is currently under Cons Comm control. 
 
Mr. Pease asked what sources Mr. Kibbe had used in the previous version of the document.  Mr. Kibbe 
explained it was all MA GIS. 
 
Mr. Prokowiew mentioned that he had forwarded some information to Conservation Administrator, Matt 
Marro, regarding a Land Stewardship program in Chatham, MA which may serve as a model for a similar 
effort in Lunenburg. 
 
Sarah Cammer then gave the group an introduction to a mobile application which assists with land 
management efforts by allowing users to record data including pictures of assets and conditions in real 
time in the field in a format that is easily customized, shared and integrated across various platforms.  It is 
free at low levels of use, an annual license for extensive use would be approximately $500.00 / yr. 
 
Discussion turned to mapping trails.  MRPC has done some mapping, Trail Riders have also been mapping. 
 
Karin Menard noted that some of the parks descriptions in the narrative sections of the document need 
updating to correct errors and changes.   
 
Mr. Kibbe reports ongoing progress with collecting data to update maps in the document.  New maps will 
be in 11” x 17” format which will be more usable and will scale to 8.5” x 11” nicely.  The same series of 
maps will be included, but with updated data.   
 
Karin Menard volunteered to get copies of the warrant articles for new “Scenic Roadway” designations on 
Flat Hill and Northfield Rd. 
 
Discussion continued on testing the new land assessment/management application.  It was decided that 
the group would test the app by taking it into the field and giving it a try.  Noted- 504 evaluations were not 
available at tonight's meeting.  It is expected they will be available at the July meeting. 
 
The following areas will be assessed as part of the application test. 
 
Sarah- Clark's Hill 
Rich Bursch- Small Town Forest 
Bob Pease- Large Town Forest and Lane Property 
David P- Laurel Bank and Wallis Park 
Rich Brockelman- his own property 
Brandon Kibbe- Marshall Park and McNally Park 
 
There was some final discussion about Committee Composition and we decided we would address this 
question on an ongoing basis. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Meeting adjourned 9:15pm. 