===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
 
 
Brandon Kibbe    Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Bob Pease    Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Dennis Mannone    
Richard Brockelman 
Sarah Cammer 
vacant      
 
 
OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE 
CHARRETTE 
MINUTES 
October 16, 2018  
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 
Time:  6:00 PM 
Members Present: Brandon Kibbe, David Prokowiew, Bob Pease, Richard Brockelman, Sarah Cammer 
Absent: Dennis Mannone (Parks) 
Also Present: Karin Menard (Parks alternate) 
 
Public information and comment session was called to order at 6:02 pm. 
 
B. Kibbe gave a presentation providing an overview of the open space and recreation planning proces s, 
benefits to the Town, prior open space plan goals/objectives, and accomplishments from prior planning 
effort.  Updating plan will result in a 7-year window of state grant eligibility. 
 
B. Kibbe presented the results of the Open Space Survey that was mailed to nearly 4,900 taxpayers as a 
bill insert, was available online through Survey Monkey, downloadable on the Town website, and 
otherwise available at Town Hall as hardcopy.  Four hundred thirty  eight ( 438) responses received , 
deemed to be a very successful rate of return.  Reviewe d trends and highlights for each survey question 
from the consolidated data. 
 
B. Kibbe presented draft mapping for the plan update, looking at the Town’s various resources and 
discussing trends/priorities. 
 
Public comments and general discussion: 
 
1. Connectivity of walking trails, sidewalks, and interconnection between conservation, recreation, 
and local businesses.  Focus in Whalom and Town Center districts. 
2. Special zoning provisions near conservation/recreation areas to promote business linkages. 
3. Need for good trail maps. 
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 10.16.18 
Page 2 
 
4. Master plan and improvements to Marshall Park due to its central location to Town.  Need to 
bring the park back to former prominence, and develop for use and access by all residents not 
just organized sports. 
5. Map of farms to connect people to local agriculture. 
6. Regional trail connections.  Integrate MRPC regional trail mapping effort. 
7. Review inventory of lands held as “general municipal” land.  Identify properties to be converted 
to the care and control of  the Conservation Commission (like former school property at West 
Street, or Woodruff property), Parks Commission (for “pocket parks”, community gardens, or 
other resources), or other municipal needs, and consider selling truly “surplus” properties to get 
those back on the tax rolls. 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 6:57 pm. 
 
Documents Used at Charrette: 
Draft mapping  
 