===PAGE 1===
TOWN  OF  LUNENBURG  
 
 
Brandon Kibbe    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Bob Pease    Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Karin Menard    978-582-4147 extension 5 
Sarah Cammer 
Gregory Bittner 
Paula Bertram 
Vacancy, At Large 
 
    
 
 
 
OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE 
MINUTES 
OCTOBER 15, 2019 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Members Present: Brandon Kibbe, Bob Pease, Greg Bittner, Paula Bertram, Karin Menard, Sarah 
Cammer (late arrival at 7pm) 
  
B. Kibbe called the meeting to order at 6:35pm. 
  
 250 Howard St. Chapter 61 Withdrawal: 
 B. Kibbe presented information regarding the property located at 250 Howard St. and its 
withdrawal from Chapter 61. He said that the property would need to meet at least three (3) of 
the open space criteria and on a quick look at things it only meets two (2). He said that the 
parcel is not greater than 50 acres  and is not important for scenic vistas, but could offer 
continuous access to other Town-owned parcels. He asked if Conserv ation or Parks had 
discussed. B. Pease said Conservation was not interested and K. Menard said that Parks had not 
met yet to discuss, but she didn’t think it would be of interest to them.  
 K. Menard Motioned and P. Bertram Seconded to pass over Right Of First Refusal of 250 
Howard Street - passed 5-0 
  
Pierce Tree Farm APR project: 
  B. Kibbe presented information on the Pierce Tree Farm Agricultural Preservation Restriction  
by the MA Department of Agricultural Resources .  He said that the State requires t he town to 
be responsible for 20% of the APR acquisition price.  The landowner has the option of waiving 
that 20%.  In lieu of direct cash payment, the state provides credit to towns that have certain 
agricultural protection measures: 5% credit each for ha ving passed a Right to Farm bylaw 
(which Lunenburg has), for establishing an Agricultural Commission (which Lunenburg has), and  
  

===PAGE 2===
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
Minutes, 10.15.19 
Page 2 
 
5% for establishing a tracking system for conservation restrictions an d agricultural preservation 
restrictions that land use departments and boards can check  when reviewing applications to 
assure protected lands don’t get erroneously developed.  These measures can reduce a 
community’s total matching contribution to 5% of the  total acquisition cost.  G. Bittner asked 
how a land owner could avoid Right Of First Refusal. B. Kibbe said that all a landowner has to do 
is stop enrolling in Chapter 61 and wait a year.  
 
361 Massachusetts Avenue: 
  B. Kibbe said he was contacted by the Realtor for this property after she saw that the Town 
had reached an agreement with the owners of 994 Northfield Rd. B. Kibbe said this is a large 
piece of property by Walmart ; the front portion is zoned commercial a nd the back is zoned 
residential. B. Kibbe said  that it meets two (2), possibly three (3), criteria to be considered for 
acquisition: It is 50+ acres, is contiguous to other Town owned property, could potentially 
provide a different source of access to rec reation, but has no designated habitat resources and 
is not a scenic vista. B. Pease said he was concerned about the commercial section. P. Bertram 
asked if it could be divided and say we are only interested in the residential section. B. Kibbe 
said we cou ld do that. G. Bittner pointed out that access needs to be from like zoning - 
residential in from residential and couldn’t go through commercial. P. Bertram suggested we at 
least go walk the property. B. Kibbe said it connects into the southern section of the Saliba 
property on Northfield Rd. B. Pease said he would be opposed to purchasing the commercial 
property; K. Menard agreed. B. Kibbe said he would follow up with the Realtor and ask if they 
would consider dividing the property, and if so, could we visit the residential portion.  
  
Saliba Property Acquisition: 
B. Kibbe update d the group that we have received grants to help with the purchase of this 
property in the amount of $500k. He said the next step would be to seek approval at the Special 
Town Meeting on November 12th. He also said the warrant article explains that the northern 
section would be in the care, custody, and control of the Conservation Commission and the 
southern section would be in the care , custody and control of the Park Commission. He  said 
that the total project cost is $782k , the acquisition cost is $775k, and the voters would be 
authorizing the total project cost and would be reimbursed $500k by the end of the fiscal year. 
If it passes, the total cost to the Town would be $282k once the grant funding came through.  
 S. Cammer motioned and P. Bertram seconded to support the Saliba acquisition. Approved 6-
0. 
  
  
===PAGE 3===
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
Minutes, 10.15.19 
Page 3 
 
Open Space Finalization: 
B. Kibbe discussed the Open Space Plan that was returned by the State for additional and 
clarifying information. R. Brockelman provided additional information to B . Kibbe to update the 
history of the community. G. Bittner said he would work on Section 3: growth. B. Kibbe will 
update fish and wildlife. P. Bertram would take the environmental challenges. B. Kibbe also said 
he would update Section 5 to their specifications and community goals. K. Menard said she 
would look at the analysis of need and S. Cammer  said she would take Section 7.  B. Kibbe said 
that the biggest piece is the last piece - ADA information. He said the form is important to the 
State; it’s important to note that not every property has to be accessible. S. Cammer asked if it 
would make more sense to take the form and circle what each property does or does not have. 
B. Pease asked if we could ask them to send an exemplar. P. Bertram thought that was a good 
idea as the form was confusing. B. Kibbe said he would reach out to his state contact and would 
follow up with Conservation Commission and Park Commission with additional information.  
  
P. Bertram reviewed her research. She said she needs to connect with the DPW regarding 
Townsend Harbor Landfill and status of compliance with Youngs Rd. and that she also needs to 
connect with Phyllis Luck regarding storm water and Matt Marro regarding forestry.  
  
K. Menard and B. Pease said they will work on the ADA form for properties that f all under their 
Commissions. 
  
At-Large Vacancy: 
 B. Kibbe said he received a letter of resignation from R. Brockelman and said the Town would 
be putting out a notice of vacancy. He said if any Committee member knows of  anyone 
interested to have them fill out a Talent Bank Form. 
  
Next Meeting Date: 
 Next meeting will be November 19, 7:00 pm.. 
  
K. Menard Motioned and P. Bertram Seconded to adjourn at 7:58 pm. Approved 6-0. 
 