===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1. Welcome New Members - The Committee welcomed new members Lynn Mann and Mike Toohill. Brandon
Kibbe provided an overview of the Open Space Committees charge and explained that the Committee has been
meeting on an as needed basis to discuss property acquisitions such as the Saliba property, Chapter 61
withdrawals and the Open Space Plan.
2. Review and Approve Minutes from 12/10/2019 - Committee unanimously approved the minutes.
3. Committee Administration - Brandon suggested that a Vice-Chair be chosen to assist with administration of the
Committee. Karin Menard nominated Paula Bertram, Lynn Mann seconded. Passed unanimously. With the
approval of the 2019-2026 Open Space Plan the committee now has an opportunity to support implementation
of the plan and it may be appropriate for the Committee to meet on a more regular basis. Following discussion
it was determined that the Committee will meet the 3'd Tuesday of each month from September-December.
Brandon noted that when accessing the Open Space Plan from the Planning Board page the link is incorrect,
Paula will talk with Adam Burney. (Note, when accessing via the Open Space page the link is correct).
4. "General Municipal" Town Owned property Disposition - Brandon explained that there are numerous town
owned properties that are not under the care and control of a specific board or committee such as the
Conservation Commission or Parks Department. Many of these properties contain trails and for all intent and
purposes are utilized as Conservation Land. There is some interest in considering the conveyance of some of
these parcels. Members will review the list of general municipal land contained in Appendix 7 of the plan for
discussion at the next meeting.
5. Economic Development Committee Representation - Matt Allison, Planning Board Chairman, outlined the
charter of the Economic Development Committee created by the Planning Board. The Open Space Committee
needs to recommend someone to serve on the Committee. Currently there are 3 ex-officio members and 2
citizens at large. Each member of the Open Space Committee will reach out to people to determine if there is
someone interested in serving (existing committee members are not available to serve at this time, Paula is
serving as an ex-officio member for the Planning Board) This topic to be discussed at the next meeting.
6. 250 Howard Street - Discussion of Potential 61b Release - Brandon outlined the Chapter 61A and B programs
and explained that a change of use triggers the Town's right of first refusal. The Selectmen have requested an
opinion from the Open Space Committee before their meeting on September 8, 2020.
The parcel is 15+ acres on the North side of Howard Street across from the recently acquired Saliba property. It
abuts 15+ acres of conservation land and could potentially provide access to 39+ acres Conservation land to the
rear which has been inaccessible. In addition there is a small parcel identified as parcel one on the map
provided by the owners attorney that is currently in foreclosure which may be of interest to the Town.
===PAGE 2===
Public Access - This parcel abuts several conservation properties and could provide access to adjacent
landlocked land and recreational opportunities.
Contiguous to other protected open space or recreation resources - This parcel directly abuts several
conservation parcels.
Paula Bertram made a motion to recommend acquisition of this parcel to the Board of Selectmen, seconded by
Lynn Mann. Passed unanimously.
7. Bright Farms Acquisition Request - Brandon explained that at large parcel that abuts the Table Rock-Saliba
South parcel and the Rayno Conservation Trust is going to be developed and that the Town may want to acquire
an easement between the parcels for connectivity. Matt Allison, Chair of the Planning Board, provided
background on the project. The proposed use of the property is agricultural; a one-million-foot greenhouse is
proposed to grow lettuce. The project will involve an intermunicipal agreement for sewer and a well would be
required. This project will be presented to the Planning Board on Monday, August 24, 2020. Following
discussion Paula Bertram made a motion to recommend to the permit granting authorities that they pursue an
acquisition or easement of a small portion of the property to allow connectivity between the Table Rock Saliba
South parcel and the Rayno Conservation land. Motion seconded by Sarah Cammer. Passed unanimously.
RECEIVED & FILED
Meeting adjourned at 7:19 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
OCT 13 2020
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Paula Bertram
