===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Open Space Meeting Minutes
June 15, 2021
The Committee met in the Ritter Memorial Building as posted with the following committee members present:
Ana Flavia Lockwood, Paula Bertram, Brandon Kibbe, Mike Toohill, Sarah Cammer and Bob Pease.
1. Call to Order - Meeting called to order by the Chairman at 6:41 p.m. Due to the number of residents in
attendance the meeting was moved to the downstairs meeting room
4. Lake Shirley parcels: 725 Goodrich Street, 0 Lake Shirley Reservoir & 860 Reservoir Road, 0
Flynn Road. Update on further title information, discuss next steps to confirm town ownership &
potential uses. - Note agenda items taken out of order - Brandon Kibbe explained that the Open Space
Plan recommended reviewing properties classified as general municipal property to identify lands that
have a potential for use as open space or recreation space. Mr. Kibbe noted that surveys have indicated
in the past that public access to Lake Shirley is desired and therefore the Committee identified several
parcels on Lake Shirley for further investigation.
Paula Bertram outlined her findings on the properties she researched:
860 Reservoir Road, 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake & 725 Goodrich - 860 Reservoir Road near the road
is very wet and crossing would be difficult. Slope from the edge of roadway into the interior of the parcel.
There is upland area in the proximity of the road that could be suitable for a parking. Traffic in this area
is very heavy and high speed; a crossing would have to be created to address safety concerns. The area
on the lake side is beautiful and could possibly support a canoe portage, picnic tables and a small parking
area. Not suitable for swimming. 860 Reservoir Road has gone through the taking process and is clearly
owned by the Town. 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake may be part of Peter Montonen land. This property is
commonly referred to as "Stump Cove" and may have been gifted to the Town when ownership of the
Dam was given to the Town through the Town Meeting process. The abutting property refers to plan
dated 6/21/1947 drawn by William Ray for Peter Montonen. Paula spent time at the registry and
researched plans; apparently this plan was not recorded. She worked with Adam Costa, Director of
Registry Services and the plan could not be located. The taking for 725 Goodrich Street was recorded in
1970 but the process was not completed.
0 Flynn Road - This is a beautiful area with clear water, however, the Town parcel on the water is
extremely limited as it is a causeway with little land area. There is an existing parking area across from
the causeway on what may be the Town property. May be suitable for a canoe portage & parking to
provide access to Lake Shirley. Ownership of this lot is unclear; it may have been owned by Peter
Montonen who owned a lot of land in this area and subdivided parcels. Lot lines for this parcel mapped
by the Assessors records and recorded plans do not match.
Renee Raboin of 46 Fire Road 12 stated that she had spoken with Matt Marro and he informed her that
Lake Shirley is a protected wetland. Ms. Raboin added that many people come to Stump Cove and the
property is sometimes vandalized. Ms. Raboin questioned if this parcel is used for recreational use, who
will pay for the policing and why are we not looking at Hickory Hills? Ms. Raboin opined that there is
already public access to Lake Shirley at Shady Point; the people on Lake Shirley pay high taxes and
dues to keep the lake usable. It is Ms. Raboin's opinion that the people of Lake Shirley will not accept
Open Space Minutes 9.22.2020
Page 1 of 5
===PAGE 2===
further access and provided the Committee with a petition signed by 33 people which is attached to and
made part of these minutes.
John Tata of 135 Flynn Road informed the Board that the dam for Lake Shirley failed in 1987 when he
was on the Finance Committee. A coffer dam was installed, and 10 years was spent obtaining funds for
repairs, eventually repairs were funded by the State. Mr. Tata then read a letter from Brian and Cynthia
Ritchie outlining their objections to public access.
The letter is attached to and made part of these
minutes. Mr. Tata informed the Committee that he is opposed to a public ramp and a parking area at
Stump Cove and requested that Lake Shirley remain private. Mr. Tata then showed the Committee a
photo of a large turtle and said he is concerned about the impact to wildlife if public access is granted.
Mr. Tata said the land is already utilized by people with kayaks who block the mailboxes, he does not
trust the State and who is going to maintain the area? Mr. Tata added that if he wants to take his family
swimming somewhere it is at a cost and why should the public be allowed access to put watercraft in
Lake Shirley without paying?
Christian Reniken of 70 Fire Road 12 stated that he grew of up on the Lake and is concerned about the
area degrading because of public access.
Cindy Lee Gee of 140 Flynn Road said that there are approximately 240 homes on the Lake which
equates to 240 boats, some people have second boats and there are jet skis. Ms. Gee said that there
are hundreds of boats on the lake on any given day. Recently a kayak was run over by a fishing boat.
There are boats that operate at night without lights and adding additional access will compound the
problem. Ms. Gee questioned the Towns liability in the event of an accident.
Larry Ouellette of 110 Fire Road 12 told the Committee that his family has owned the property since
1942. Recently he had to file with Conservation to repair his walls which are being destroyed by wake
boats, he added that the shoreline is being eroded because of boat traffic and expressed concern with
adding additional motorboats.
Brandon Kibbe asked if the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation has ever looked at imposing
restrictions on speed and the size of engines. Mr. Ouellette responded that because of the cloudy tittle
on the Lake there are questions regarding the governing body of the Lake. Brandon noted that there are
already safety issues today on the lake, regardless of public access. Ana Flavia Lockwood pointed out
that problems exist with residents of the Lake and a member of the audience stated that some of the boat
traffic is due to public access at Shady Point. Brandon Kibbe and Sarah Cammer pointed out that people
pay to launch at Shady Point which is not public access.
Kaitlyn Katisch, 605 Reservoir Road noted that Shady Point does check boats for weeds and that
increasing the traffic on the lake will potentially increase the weeds that are brought into the lake and will
exacerbate the boat traffic problem, she added that the Police presence on the lake is limited due to the
size of the Police Force.
Tammy Lovewell, 579 Reservoir Road, informed the Committee that residents pay voluntary dues to the
Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation, and they manage the weed problem. Ms. Lovewell does not
want to have unregulated boats that may bring in weeds added to the issue, access to the lake by people
who are not invested in the water body will cause problems. Ms. Lovewell walks Reservoir Road every
day and picks up trash. Ms. Lovewell asked for clarification regarding the authority of the Open Space
Open Space Minutes 9.22.2020
Page 2 of 5
===PAGE 3===
Committee. Brandon explained that the Open Space Committee provides recommendations to the Town
through the Planning Board and Board of Selectmen. It is the responsibility of the Committee to make
recommendations that are in the best interest of the Towns citizens. The Open Space Plan sought input
from all citizens and the written comments indicated that public access to Lake Shirley is desired. Mr.
Kibbe stressed that this process will be public and that any decision regarding public access will be made
by Town Meeting. John Tata commented that he read the Open Space Plan and there are only 2
comments about Lake Shirley.
Ana Flavia Lockwood pointed out that the Town owns property, and we are investigating possible uses
so that appropriate recommendations can be made.
Sarah Cammer noted that the Committee is
listening and not ready to decide at this point, she added that some families may not be able to afford the
$30 per day fee charged by Lake Shirley to obtain access through Shady Point.
Stanley Helstowski, Fire Road 10, expressed concern if the State gets involved. He informed the
Committee that 15 years ago the State put in a boat ramp at Lake Layola in Shrewsbury and boats are
now coming in from outside of the community and causing issues, he said that if access was limited to
Lunenburg citizens, he would not be that concerned however he is against opening the Lake to the
general public. Mr. Helstowski also questioned whether there would be bathroom facilities.
Robin Wilson of 701 Reservoir Road, owner of Shady Point, told the Board that Shady Point provided
access to Lunenburg residents and that Shady Point has spent a significant amount of money to provide
Police Details, unfortunately only 50% of the details have been able to be filled due to staffing.
Bob Pease noted that the Open Space plan and associated surveys are on the Town website. Mr. Pease
said he had heard that when the State repaired the dam the land known as stump cove was given to the
Town as a requirement of the grant. The purpose of the property was to provide public access, he pointed
out that currently the area is not a safe place to park or to launch canoes or kayaks. He said that the
Committee is not looking to provide a boat ramp, he is looking to improve access so that citizens can use
the area. Mr. Pease added that a title search will be needed and that there will be ample opportunity for
public input.
Paula Bertram said that it was her understanding that the property known as stump cove along with the
dam were given to the Town because the Commonwealth of Massachusetts would not pay for a private
dam. A requirement of the funding was public access. Ana Flavia Lockwood noted that residents of the
Town were given the right to public access in 1987 and is the responsibility of the Open Space Committee
to explore options. She invited everyone to participate in the process so that an ideal scenario can be
developed.
Brandon pointed out that the Department of Fishing and Boating Access participate in creating/improving
public access for rooftop access, they are willing to build launch areas and racks for kayaks and canoes.
The Department would fund access, but the Town would have to enter into a municipal agreement they
will manage it. The Committee assured those in attendance that this project is in the exploratory phase
and that all comments made tonight will be considered.
Kaitlyn Katisch stated that $45,000 per year is contributed by residents to the weed program, this is a
voluntary contribution. Of the 240 homes on the lake, only 120 have contributed varying amounts, she
noted that this is the best year yet for contributions. She expressed concern that boats may enter the
Open Space Minutes 9.22.2020
Page 3 of 5
===PAGE 4===
lake that have not been cleaned or inspected and bring in invasive weeds. Kaitlyn is not concerned about
canoes and kayaks but she does not trust the Town to police it. According to Ms. Katish the Board of
Selectmen told them to "let it turn back into a swamp". Ana Flavia Lockwood pointed out that the problem
of uninspected boats being launched is already occurring, knowing this issue will help shape the
conservations moving forward. According to Ms. Katish stump cove is currently accessible and utilized.
Tammy Lovewell questioned why public access is not improved on public property and why Hickory Hills
is not targeted for public access.
John Tata, a former member of the Finance Committee, opined that the entire project of public access
on Lake Shirley is an exercise in futility and that in his opinion the Committee is wasting Town money.
Ana Flavia Lockwood said that equal access should be given to all on Town land and that the Committee
is not wasting time or money. Mr. Tata responded that if you can park a car and launch a kayak that is
public access. As a representative of the Parks Commission, Ana responded that a program cannot be
run on land that is not owned by the Town, she pointed out that the Teen Center was able to utilize Shady
Point for two weeks this summer, however that is not an option for a Town department; that is why she
believes in equal access for Town parcels.
Ms. Lovewell said that Hickory Hills dam was paid for by the State. Paula Bertram responded that the
dam project was privately funded and that the cost was $500,000. Paula Bertram explained that Hickory
Hills Lake is private and that all improvements of the dam and surrounding property are funded by
residents without assistance from the State or Town. Ms. Lovewell questioned if the fact that Paula lived
on Hickory Hills was a conflict, Paula responded that she has no financial interest in public access on
Lake Shirley and a conflict does not exist.
Brandon said he would accept one more public comment this evening but then move on to another
subject. He assured those in attendance that public participation will be encouraged throughout the
process. Several members of the Committee indicated that they were amenable to closing public
comment this evening, however they would like to discuss further and identify next steps.
Paula stated that it is important to find the vote giving the dam to the Town she added that she is not in
favor of pursuing Flynn Road and Bob Pease agreed. Mike Toohill stated that we should investigate of
all parcels listed as Town property to determine ownership as it could provide foot access to the lake.
Brandon responded that if a parcel cannot serve a public purpose why not put it back on the tax rolls.
Paula stated we need to understand the cost associated with determining ownership. Ana noted that
there are several small spots along the Nashua that provide the best places to launch kayaks and was
in favor of investigating small parcels. Sarah will reach out to Town Counsel to discuss process and
associated costs for various parcels on the lake identified as general municipal land. Paula will meet with
the Police Department to discuss parking options and lake patrols for the current situation. Bob Pease
said his primary interest is stump cove. He is concerned about people crossing the road and feels that
there is adequate parking for 5 or 6 cars on the lake frontage. In Bob's opinion an elevated dock for a
canoe portage would be ideal.
2. Review and approve minutes from 05/18/2021 meeting - Bob Pease made a motion to approve the
minutes of 5/18/2021, motion was seconded by Mike Toohill. Motion passed unanimously.
Open Space Minutes 9.22.2020
Page 4 of 5
===PAGE 5===
3. Whalom Woods - 225 Pleasant Street & 671 West Street. Update from Selectmen's meeting,
discuss next steps - Brandon informed the Committee that he had presented the PowerPoint
presentation prepared by Dave Prokowiew and Eric Hinds and was given the green light to engage other
departments in the process of utilizing this land for public access. There was feedback from one member
of the Selectboard that they would not want the land to become Conservation land. Committee discussed
the process for moving forward.
A. Research parcel history -671 West Street was acquired for a school and then turned over
to the Town. 225 Pleasant Street acquisition needs to be investigated further. A portion
of the property was donated to the Town from Tri City Baptist Church. Bob Pease will
investigate further.
B. Survey other Boards and Commissions
C. Conduct a site walk with other Boards/Commissions and the public.
D. Schedule a meeting with other Boards/Commissions.
E. Advertise a public hearing
Ana stated that the Parks Commission is interested in a portion of the Pleasant Street Parcel. This is an
area that is under served and they would welcome the opportunity to pursue. Paula Bertram noted that
the Agricultural Commission and Planning Board should be involved.
Bob Pease made a motion that the Committee authorize Brandon and Ana to collaborate on the
communication to other Boards and Committees. Motion seconded by Paula Bertram.
Passed
unanimously.
4. Committee Administration Update - Brandon Kibbe informed the Committee that Lynne Man had
submitted her resignation. Eric Hinds has submitted a talent bank form and is very interested in joining
the Committee. The Committee accepted Lynne's resignation and Eric's talent bank will be forwarded to
the Planning Board.
5. Public Comment -Ana requested that use of a portion of the Pleasant Street Parcel by the Parks
Department be placed on the next agenda. Ana also suggested that the next meeting of the Committee
via Zoom. Sarah stated that she would like some meetings recorded so that the public can be aware of
the Committees work. Paula will reach out to PAC to see if they are available to record meetings on the
3rd Tuesday of the month. Bob Pease will reach out to Elaine about availability of meeting space. Bob
noted that Zoom meetings allow for public presentation.
6. Adjourn - Meeting was adjourned at 9:32 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Paula Bertram
Open Space Minutes 9.22.2020
Page 5 of 5
===PAGE 6===
Petition regarding proposed increased public access to Lake Shirley at Lake
Shirley Parcels: 725 Goodrich Street, 0 Lake Shirley Reservoir &
869, Reservo Road, O Flynn Road
am L
We, the residents of the area of Lake Shirley currently proposed for increased
public access, desire to address said issue and firmly oppose it. Shady Point
already offers public access and boat launch. Our lake is already well populated
with many boats, jet skis and water crafts. Further, the traffic on Reservoir Road
has increased exponentially over the years, with many serious accidents ensuing.
Increased public access will create more destabilization in this area, and result in
compromised safety for all.
We continue to pick up ever more trash along Reservoir Road, including numerous
empty alcohol containers and styrofoam, in an effort to keep our neighborhood the
sanctuary it is for us and the wildlife around us. Increasing public access will
result in more pollution - water, noise, and debris. Worse, it will notably increase
potential car and pedestrian (as well as watercraft) accidents in our neighborhood.
There is a bald eagle nest directly on Lake Shirley, and they join numerous herons,
ducks, swans, geese, beaver, otter, frogs, fish, as well as trees and flora (including
lady slippers, located in proposed wetlands) in depending on these wetlands for
food and shelter, which new public access will destroy.
We care deeply about the safety of our neighborhood and all traveling through, as
well as the nature around us. Further development, especially creating additional
public access, will invite a much larger human footprint, and be detrimental to both
human and wildlife safety overall. Lake Shirley is a protectable wetland under
state law and public access in the area proposed flies in the face of this.
As landowners and taxpayers of this area of Lunenburg, we demand our voices to
be heard, and this reckless idea to be discarded. There is simply too much at stake
for the proposed public access in said area to move forward. Let's keep this area
safe for its many residents and those passing through-human and otherwise.
===PAGE 7===
Resident
Address
Phone
Signature
Renée Raban 466 Fire Rd 1201462
Lonenang 781-321-9343
Isaber
StandEy Helstowoki 295ieRend10 7784026791 Stalkets
Constance Helstowski 29fireRl10 4138587578 Catana Dilar
Alice We 44 FireRd 12
978182-232 hef
Scott Bepo YeF2112 714-242-3113
DavidOsoft 46 Fire Road12
S08 3415130 DarL
278
Donald Rower 715 Reseroir Pl 978-217-6745
Donnie
D11060 5)
Rand Rd. Lunenburg a Dr
Nandaneser 31 Parmenter Rd Lurerbuy
Claire Carroll 64 Fire Rd 12 hunenburg
Petition against proposed Reservoir Road Boat Launch - page 2
===PAGE 8===
NO INCREASED PUBLIC ACCESS TO LAKE SHIRLEY
Resident
Address
Phone
Signature
yes:
rote A 2 975-518-1657 Eari Des
yea
rise #ol 12 978-868-7498 €
Lui flauti
80 Five Road 12 978-855-2873 fansObo
YES 80FIRE R012 978-765-46588 hulBe
Meas
80fire Rd # 12-928-355-3210 CamaRouk
kaylee Marh en
yes 19 kand Rog 505-858-9815 haylem
BlancasluRD 9785032594 Plan
12s
Yes
Yes
l'13 RoundRd.
979-592-1262 (hk
33 Johnser Street 978-273-8965 WAL-SM
lofine 14 976-375-2503 7 loss
405 Resertoir # 9786704772 CatTit
Petition against proposed public access on Reservoir Road
lenée
781-321-9343
===PAGE 9===
NO INCREASED PUBLIC ACCESS TO LAKE SHIRLEY
Resident
Address
Phone
Signature
There podia Fire Rd 12506314108 spadefn
can fart r2 this st. 7793028056 Cafa
Kathleen Martin 45 Parmenter St 508341-7844 UtM
Tammylowel 579 Reservie R19783121520 Lamagher
michael Loves "
Petition against proposed public access on Reservoir Road
===PAGE 10===
From: bcritchie@sbcglobal.net,
To: jbtata@aol.com, britchie@shepardsteel.com,
Subject: Public Ramp and Parking-Opposition Statement
Date: Mon, Jun 14, 2021 8:45 pm
June 14th
", 2021
To Whom It May Concern,
We, Brian and Cynthia Ritchie, strongly oppose the thought of adding a public ramp and parking lot (at Stump
Cove) on Lake Shirley. We are residents on the lake, who take good care of our property and care deeply about
the health and well being of the lake, as well as of its residents. Lake Shirley does not need any extra added boat
traffic nor pollution. It already is very busy during the summer months as it is home to many year-round
residents with watercrafts and to multiple guests who visit Shady Point. Lake Shirley is not large enough to
have additional guests. The boat traffic would become dangerous for everyone on the water. Additionally, there
is no place for guest boaters to dock and swim. The lake is not conducive to adding public guests. Adding such
public access would change the dynamics of Lake Shirley in many detrimental ways. As taxpayers, residents and
people vested in the well being of the lake we ask you to leave it private. That is what we and other residents
signed up for and we continue to pay yearly dues to keep the lake in pristine shape. We are vested in its care.
Sincerely,
Brian and Cynthia Ritchie
137 Flynn Road
Lunenburg, MA
Sent from Mail for Windows 10
