===PAGE 1===
Open Space Minutes 
March 16, 2021 
The Committee met via Zoom as scheduled with the following members present:  Sarah Cammer, 
Brandon Kibbe, Paula Bertram, Bob Pease and Ana Flavia Lockwood.  
 
1. Call to Order  - Chairman opened the meeting at 6:33 p.m.  and read the pandemic notice as posted 
on the agenda. 
 
2. Minutes- Review and Approve 02/16/2021 – Sarah Cammer made a motion to approve the minutes 
of February 16, 2021, Paula Bertram seconded.  Brandon Kibbe requested that the spelling of Mike 
Toohill be corrected in item 3a.  Motion passed unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
3. Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation Discussion Regarding Parmenter Road Parcel (Out of Order) 
– Joanna Bilotta of the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation (LSIC) explained that the LSIC is looking 
for a place to hold recreational lake events, they used to use Camp David and since it closed they have 
been looking for another venue.  Joanna became aware that the Open Space Committee was looking 
at the Parmenter Parcel owned by the Town and the LSIC would be interested in utilizing this property.  
Brandon explained that the Committee is in the process of looking at the entire list of Town owned 
general use properties to see if public use makes sense or if use by other Town Departments is  
appropriate.  He added that the Committee is looking at the Parmenter Parcel but has not yet put 
forth a recommendation.  Joanna said that the LSIC is looking for a beach for lake residents similar to 
the beach at Island Road on Hickory Hills Lake .  Currently the LSIC is paying $40,000 -50,0000 a year 
on treatments to maintain the lake and they would like to continue swimming lessons for children , 
which used to be held at Camp David.  Ana pointed out that although LSIC does pay for lake treatment 
the Town pays to maintain other aspects of the Lake and the only public access is through Shady Point 
which is very limited and individuals have to pay.  Sarah indicated that while she understands that the 
Corporation puts a lot of effort into the lake , access to the lake would be of interest to everyone in 
the Town.  Joanna explained that LSIC is looking for a parcel for use by the Association, not the public.   
Paula noted that Hickory Hills Lake is private land owned by Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. and all costs 
for maintenance are paid for by the residents.  Repairs to the Dam on Lake Shirley were funded by 
the State with the stipulation that there be public access, the only “access” currently is through Stump 
Cove which is not easily accessible.  Ownership of the Lake is unclear as there is a cloudy title.  Paula 
added that giving a town owned parcel to a private group is not an option without a public auction, 
she noted that public access would not exclude LSIC.  Brandon reiterated that the Committee is 
currently doing an inventory and coming up with recommendations.  
 
4. Chase Road and Northfield Road, Map 33, Parcel 6, and Map 38, Parcels 17 and 24.2, Agricultural 
Preservation Restriction (APR) Update – Brandon explained that Pierce Tree Farm is looking to put 
an Agricultural Preservation Restriction on this parcel at Spring Town Meeting.  This would be a 
permanent restriction and the land would remain in private ownership.  The APR would be sold to the 
State and then ownership would be transferred to Dick Violette  of Dicks Market Garden.  The APR 
program provides the bulk of the funding for the parcel which is approximately 99 acres.  Cost of the 
===PAGE 2===
Parcel is $665,000 and the Town would be responsible for funding a 10% match.  Ana said that looking 
at the map this parcel does not have a lot of frontage and therefore development opportunity would 
be limited, she also noted that public access is limited and indicated she though making the land public 
would be a better option as it abuts the Saliba parcel.  Brandon explai ned that the Open Space plan   
talks about the importance of preserving agricultural land.  Lunenburg is unique in that we have large 
APR parcels.  One of the main hinderances to preserving agricultural use is the cost of the land and 
the taxes.  The APR pr ogram allows for reduction of costs and increases the viability for agricultural 
use.  This is not an open space tool, but rather a farm preservation tool.     Bob Pease said that this is 
a great program and made a motion that the Open Space Committee endo rse this article at Town 
Meeting, Paula Bertram seconded.  Motion passed unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
5. Review Lake Shirley Parcels – Paula said she had not had a chance to do any additional review.  Bob 
Pease will resend Paula the list of parcels owned by the Town on Lake Shirley. 
 
6. Review Oliver lot (374 Page Street) – Bob Pease told the Committee that this parcel shows up in the 
Assessors Database as Conservation however there is no title on record and this parcel is in the middle 
of a residential area.  Bob is continuing to research this parcel but in his opinion the Town should clean 
up the title and sell the parcel.  Paula asked how you clean up title?  Brandon said that it is a difficult 
process, you have to make a strong effort to find a ll owners and then go to land court to establish 
title.  Brandon asked if Bob had consulted with Town Counsel, Bob is meeting with Counsel on the 
22nd.  Bob will consult with Counsel about the process to clear title. 
 
7. Public Comment – None. 
 
8. Next meeting date- April 20, 2021, 6:30 p.m. – Brandon will be out of Town on April 20 th, following 
discussion meeting was moved to April 13, 2021.  Brandon will make sure there is a Zoom license 
available.  Dave Prokowiew would like to make a presentation to the Committee r egarding the 
Pleasant Street Parcel & West Street. 
 
9. Adjourn – Paula made a motion to adjourn at 7:20 p.m., seconded by Ana motion passed unanimously 
by roll call vote. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Paula Bertram 