===PAGE 1===
September 8, 2022 
 
MINUTES 
 
Open Space Committee 
 
 
Members present: Michael Toohill, Ana Lockwood, Mary Wilson, Eric Hinds and, Matthew 
Allison  
Absent: Brandon Kibbe  
 
Additional Attendees: Dave Passios 
 
 
Meeting called to order at 7:30 PM and M. Toohill indicated the meeting was being recorded 
and on Zoom. 
 
First item on the agenda, Minutes from August 11, 2022. 
 
A. Lockwood made a motion to accept the minutes as presented. M. Allison seconded. Roll Call 
vote, all in favor (5-0). 
 
Next item on the agenda,  New Planning Board Representative - Matthew Allison. 
 
M. Toohill welcomed M. Allison to the committee.  
 
M. Allison stated he has been on the Planning Board since 2012. He is interested in preserving 
Open Space and he also sits on the Agricultural Commission. 
 
Next item on the agenda, Stump Cove (0 Lake Shirley Reservoir Road) Parcel off Reservoir 
Road - Follow-up 
M. Toohill indicated he had no updates at this time.  
 
M. Toohill informed the Committee they approved a budget for a Title Examiner. The approval 
has been sent to the Town Manager. The Town Manager is working with the Town Council and 
their title examiner. 
 
Next item on the agenda,  Committee Comments/Concerns. 
 
Conservation Commission 
M. Wilson stated the Conservation Commission (CC) is the beneficiary of the estate of Sean 
Kelly who resided at 77 Peninsula Drive. 
 
The CC would receive the proceeds of the estate but not the land. The estimates of the estate 
are as follows: 
● The house is estimated at $1 million. 
===PAGE 2===
● The additional liquid assets are $¼ million and a car. 
 
M. Wilson indicated the proceeds would not be available for at least six months. 
 
Parks Commission 
A. Lockwood stated the Parks Commission is working on the Northfield property and noted the 
survey has already been done. The parcel is approximately 50 acres and Parks is working on a 
ten year plan. 
 
Planning Board 
M. Allison indicated the Planning Board is looking at  a project where Bright Farms was 
previously permitted. Lufa Farms is proposing a greenhouse on an 8 acre parcel. 
 
Bright Farms offered to give Lunenburg a piece of the parcel to connect existing CC and Parks 
with access to Northfield. 
 
M. Allison indicated the new applicant, Lufa Farms may be offering the PB the same terms as 
the Bright Farms and asking for a revision to the previous permit rather than go through the 
whole permitting process again. 
 
Next on the agenda, Public Comment - none 
 
Next on the agenda,  Meeting Schedule 
 
The Committee discussed moving the October meeting to October 12, 2022 and scheduling the 
November meeting for November 9, 2022. 
 
M. Toohill suggested scheduling meetings every other month moving forward or as needed. 
This item will be on the next agenda. 
 
M. Allison suggest adding the appointment of the Vice-chair on the next agenda. 
 
 Adjourned: 8:05  pm 
 
Andrea Mastrototoro 