===PAGE 1===
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
Thursday, August 11, 2022 – 7:30 PM 
Minutes 
 
Members present: Chairman Mike Toohill, Brandon Kibbe, Ana Lockwood, Mary Wilson 
  
I. Chairman called meeting to order at 7:37pm   
 
II. Minutes: Review & Approve 6.9.2022 
a. Moved by A. Lockwood, seconded by M. Toohill.  Approved unanimously. 
b. B. Kibbe agreed to take minutes for the current meeting. 
c. Still need to review and approve minutes from minutes from 3.11.22 
 
III. Committee Composition 
a. Tanner Cole has resigned from Planning Board will no longer serve as the PB appointee.  
Planning Board is working to appoint a new member. 
b. Sarah Cammer, at-large member, indicated that she will likely be resigning her position.  
M. Toohill will follow up. 
c. Existing committee members introduced themselves. 
d. Introduce and welcome new committee member Mary Wilson, Conservation 
Commission appointee.  M. Wilson provided background and introduction. 
 
IV. Stump Cove (0 Lake Shirley Reservoir Road) Parcel off Reservoir Road- Follow-up 
a. Estimate for title examination and certification of $500 from examiner familiar to Town 
Counsel.   
b. B. Kibbe moved, A. Lockwood seconded, to authorize town manager to expend $500 
from BrightFarm Trust Fund to conduct title examination and certification of Stump 
Cove property.  Approved unanimously.  M. Toohill will work with Town Manager and 
Town Counsel to contract the work. 
 
V. Committee Comments/Concerns  
a. A. Lockwood reports that Marshall Park planning process is moving ahead.  Great 
community support, Selectmen voted unanimously supported seeking grant funding.  
Parks Commission is participating in the capital planning process.  Gratitude expressed 
to Town Manager for great support. 
b. M. Toohill and M. Wilson will provide a more detailed update of the Shawn H. Kelley 
bequest to Conservation Commission at the next meeting. 
c. M. Wilson provided update on trail upgrade grant.  Six new kiosks, gravel for the 
Cowdrey parking lots, maintenance on Lane property to get gravel out on some trails to 
improve wet areas and fix eroded areas. 
 
VI. Public Comment 
a. None reported. 
 
VII. Meeting Schedule  
a. Next meetings scheduled for 9/8/22 and 10/20/22, 7:30pm 
 
VIII. Meeting adjourned at 8:15pm 
 
===PAGE 2===
Respectfully submitted, 
Brandon Kibbe 