
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee
Wednesday, March 13, 2024 – 7:30 PM
Minutes

Members Present: Mike Toohill (Chair), Ana Lockwood (Vice Chair), Matthew Allison, Eric Hinds.
Chairman Toohill called meeting to order at 7:32pm.
February 28, 2024 Meeting Minutes approval: A. Lockwood moved to approve as presented.  M. Allison seconded.  Approved unanimously by roll call vote.
0 Shirley Reservoir Lake (aka Stump Cove) and Parmenter Road Joint Select Board Vote: Report from Chair regarding Select Board vote to take no action on 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake and Parmenter Road parcels.  A. Lockwood reports that Select Board has not responded to offer from Shady Point to provide 10-year period of free access to Lunenburg residents for non-motorized boat access to Lake Shirley in exchange for Board of Selectmen dropping consideration of the transfer of care and control of aforementioned parcels regarding said offer and that Parks Commission would follow up with Shady Point to execute the agreement but also continue pushing for access through town-owned parcels. M. Allison noted that 10-year agreement with Shady Point would provide time to develop plan for town-owned parcels.
100 Howard St Right of First Refusal: Chair notes that M. Allison reported Planning Board meeting was postponed. Conservation Commission has review and recommended not exercising right of first refusal. Chair reports conversations with B. Kibbe questioning whether there is a standard process for assessing ANR submissions. M. Allison indicates that there is a standard process but that staffing shortages have created significant challenges to performing said assessments in a timely manner. M. Allison further notes that the property meets some of the criteria for recommending acquisition by the town but considers it unlikely that the town will vote to authorize acquisition funds. In consideration of other portions of this parcel remaining in Chapter 61, A. Lockwood questions whether portions of parcels can be removed from Chapter 61 in a piecemeal fashion, M. Allison states that he understands this is the case. Chair suggests that OSC members may attend a joint meeting with Planning Board on March 25, 2024, to discuss further.
Committee Reports: A. Lockwood reports that Marshall Park has received another grant and has issued an RFQ for an OPM for the project. Additionally, the current goal is to break ground on July 1 and complete construction within approximately 2.5 years. M. Allison reports on Planning Board consideration of proposed bylaws regarding battery storage and the Water Supply Protection District. M. Allison states that the battery storage bylaw is critical due to an upcoming project and that the Water Supply Protection District bylaw will be on the warrant for the upcoming town meeting.
Public Comment: Ashley Brawn, 607 Reservoir Road, presents concerns regarding effect on water quality of unmonitored public access to Lake Shirley and expresses support for Shady Point offer. Gary and Maureen Spent, 7 Ruth Street, also expresses appreciation to Shady Point and requests update on status of the offer, which Chair recaps from earlier in meeting. M. Allison reminds public that the matter is now primarily in the hands of the Town Manager and Select Board, not the Open Space Committee. John Tata, address unknown, states support for Shady Point offer. Christine Kullberg, 380 Sunset Lane, states importance of excluding additional motorized boats.
Next meetings: April 10, 2024, and May 8, 2024. Additionally, March 25, 2024, potential joint meeting with Planning Board.
Other Business: A. Lockwood requests review of right of first refusal protocol including protocols adopted by other Massachusetts town to streamline the process. A. Lockwood also expresses desire to revisit criteria in Open Space Plan for acquisition of parcels for public open space due to increasing density of development.
A. Lockwood motion, M. Allison Seconded.  Unanimously voted by roll call.  Meeting adjourned at 8:27 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Eric Hinds
These minutes were voted on and approved at the July 10, 2024 Open Space Commisttee Meeting












