
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee
Wednesday, January 10, 2024 – 7:30 PM
Minutes

Members Present: Mike Toohill (Chair), Ana Lockwood (Vice Chair, joined at 7:53), Mary Wilson, Matthew Allison, Eric Hinds.
Chairman Toohill called meeting to order at 7:37 pm.
Review and Approve Minutes for 10/25/23: M. Wilson motion: approved for distribution. E. Hinds seconded. Unanimously voted.
Missing meeting minutes: Town clerk is missing meetings in 2021 and for up to 5 meetings in 2023. M. Toohill requests that all members review their files to see if they have minutes or notes regarding whether a quorum was present.
Discussion re: BOS meeting on 1/16/24: M. Toohill discusses that some OSC members will attend this meeting to discuss recommendation regarding 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake (aka Stump Cove) and Parmenter Road as voted during meeting on October 25, 2023. If 4 or more OSC members will attend, the meeting must be posted as a joint OSC/BOS meeting in accordance with open meeting law. Given that at least 3 OSC members plan to attend, M. Toohill plans to post it as an OSC meeting. A. Lockwood plans to invite members of the Parks committee since OSC has recommended that these properties be transferred to the care and control of the Parks commission.
Committee Comments/Concerns: M. Wilson reports that 2 grants have recently been approved. Lunenburg Snowriders received grant in 2022 to add gravel along trails in Lane Conservation Property and will also perform trail improvements in Small Town Forest (removing overgrowth, stump grinding). Hoping to schedule this work soon, weather pending. ConCom received grant in 2023 to fund engineering drawings in several conservation areas to improve safety and accessibility, including ADA-compliant trail access to the Harold Harvey wildlife viewing area within Cowdrey Nature Center. Challenges include the trail being within a flood plain and within an endangered species area. Waiting to receive final approval from various boards/agencies. Also seeking volunteers to perform some of the work including trail markers. Lunenburg HS has encouraged National Honor Society students to volunteer for ConCom work. M. Wilson requests volunteers to help organize Earth Day volunteer opportunities. M. Toohill asks whether digitized trail maps are available to visitors via a QR code; M. Wilson states that they are not currently but that is a future goal.
Public Comment: Jay Simeone of 362 Sunset Lane is opposed to Parks taking over land on Lake Shirley. Concerned about uncontrolled/unmonitored public access to Lake Shirley. Discusses that maintenance of the lake is supported by the residents around that lake whose tax burden recently was increased. M. Toohill invites Jay to speak at the 1/16/24 BOS meeting. Debra Yauer(sp?)  226 Sunset Lane also speaks against Park commission taking care and control of lake-adjacent parcels. Mentions safety, parking, ADA access, trash, and invasive plants. M. Toohill reminds public that OSC has only recommended that Parks take care and control of the public parcels, and that potential future uses are still being decided. Steven Batone of 18 Oak Ridge Road says ??
Next meetings: February 14 and March 13, 2024.
A. Lockwood motion, M. Wilson Seconded.  Unanimously voted.  Meeting adjourned at 8:06 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Eric Hinds
Approved at the 2/28/24 Open Space Committee Meeting












