===PAGE 1===
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee
Wednesday, February 28, 2024  –  7:30 PM
Minutes
Members Present: Mike Toohill (Chair), Brandon Kibbe  (Clerk) , Ana Lockwood  (Vice Chair) , Mary 
Wilson , Matthew Allison .
1. Chairman Toohill  called meeting to order at 7: 3 6 pm.
2. January 10, 2024 Meeting Minutes approval : A. Lockwood moved to approve as presented.  M. 
Wilson seconded.  Approved unanimously by roll call vote.
3. 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake (aka Stump Cove) and Parmenter Road Joint Board Site Visit  on 
February 17, 2024 : Report from Chair  regarding joint board site visit to view properties being 
held to view the properties under consideration for transfer of care and control to Parks 
Commission .  Visit began at Parmenter Road, estimated  60-70 people in attendance.  The visit 
continued at 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake parcel with about 40 people attending . Viewed access at 
both sites , as well as encroachments, with active conversations about the transfer matter.  A. 
Lockwood reported  a letter that was sent to the Board of Selectmen from Shady Point, offering 
free non-motorized boat launch access to Lunenburg residents in exchange for Board of 
Selectmen dropping consideration of the transfer of care and control.  Chair will follow up with 
the Selectmen chair to confirm next joint meeting, expected on 3/5/2024 or following week.
4. Committee Reports : A. Lockwood shared update on municipal budget and Marshall Park grant 
on behalf of Parks Commission.  M. Allison provided report on behalf of Planning Board 
regarding recent ANR approval of 100 Howard Street  (60 acres, 5 lots) , which was erroneou sly 
approved without the parcel being withdrawn from Chapter 61 and appropriate notice/right of 
first refusal to town. M. Wilson provided report on behalf of Conservation Commission, 
regarding backlog of wetlands applications due to staffing shortages and concern about capacity
to complete work for grant-funded parking lot improvements at 3 conservation properties.
5. Public Comment : Mike Clark, 275 Cross Road . Reported recent discussion at Board of Selectmen
by a resident seeking temporary use of old Primary School property as t-ball field to avoid 
conflicts at Marshall Park. Noted that Selectmen were wary of allowing such use, but that the 
Town Charter empowers Town Manager with decisions regarding temporary use of town-owned
buildings and grounds, besides Conservation Commission and School Committee lands.  Parks 
Commission to discuss at next meeting.
6. Next meeting s : March 13, 2024 and April 10, 2024
7. B. Kibbe  motion, M. Allison  S econded .  Unanimously voted  by roll call .  Meeting adjourned at 
8: 4 9  pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Brandon Kibbe
APPROVED at the 3/13/24 OSC Meeting