
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 – 7:30 PM
Minutes

Members Present: Mike Toohill (Chair), Ana Lockwood, Eric Hinds, Glenn McLeod.
Chairman Toohill called meeting to order at 7:32pm.
September 11, 2024, Meeting Minutes Approval: A. Lockwood moved to approve as presented. G. McLeod seconded. Voted unanimously in favor by roll call.
Committee Reports: G. McLeod reported no updates from Planning Board.
Farmland of Local Importance: M. Toohill describes NRCS program for designating Farmland of Local Importance (FLI), which can increase eligibility for federal farmland preservation funding. M. Toohill notes that there is no cost and little effort required to do so, other than reviewing and confirming land identified as potential FLI by NRCS, and that doing so does not create regulatory obligations or affect property use or valuation. Committee member M. Wilson will present additional details but is not present tonight due to attending Conservation Commission meeting. G. McLeod suggests gathering additional information prior to voting on whether or not to recommend approving, since there is no deadline to do so. The members present concur. 
100 Townsend Harbor Rd: Discussed whether to recommend that town exercise right of first refusal over said property which is being withdrawn from Chapter 61A.  Present members generally agree that the parcel likely does not meet the criteria for acquisition by the town, although all express some regret about potential loss of agricultural space in the town. Further discussion of the challenges created by the OSC not being automatically notified of Chapter 61 withdrawals and frequently having to respond in unrealistically short time frames. As the OSC has not specifically been asked to provide a recommendation, the members present agree to table the discussion and take no action for now.
Public Comment: G. McLeod, in his capacity as a town resident, indicates that the town hall project is moving forward rapidly and that the 30 School St parcel is of interest. G. McLeod recommends that committee members and members of the public become informed about the project.
Next meetings: Next scheduled meetings: February 12 and March 12, 2025. Discussed potential to have some in-person meetings after these two online meetings.
E. Hinds motion to adjourn, A. Lockwood seconded.  Voted unanimously in favor by roll call.  Meeting adjourned at 8:03 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Eric Hinds
APPROVED at the 2/12/25 Open Space Committee Meeting












