===PAGE 1===
Open Space Ad Hoc November 19, 2025 – 7:30 PM 
Minutes 
 
Members Present: Mike Toohill (Chair), Ana Lockwood, Colleen Shapiro, Eric Hinds. 
1. Chairman Toohill called meeting to order at 7:30pm. 
2. October 8, 2025, Meeting Minutes Approval: M. Toohill discussed some corrections to draft 
minutes for October 8, 2025, including that he would discuss the standalone committee idea 
with the planning board and draft a bylaw changing the OSC status from ad hoc to standing. A. 
Lockwood moved to approve the amended minutes. C. Shapiro seconded. Voted unanimously in 
favor by roll call.   
3. Draft bylaw and mission statement for standalone OSC: M. Toohill indicates planning board 
open to standalone OSC. M. Toohill proposed that planning board would appoint OSC members 
and that a member of Agriculture Commission would be included as a replacement for an at-
large member (currently one at-large position is vacant). M Toohill requested feedback from Ag 
Comm but has not heard back yet. A. Lockwood agrees that planning board reaction was 
positive. A. Lockwood mentioned that a primary function of the OSC is maintaining the Open 
Space Plan and having a member of Ag Comm will be helpful. M. Toohill confirmed that boards 
would still nominate their own representatives. E. Hinds mentioned that this is an opportunity 
to re-establish requirement that OSC be notified about Chapter 61 withdrawals, M. Toohill 
confirmed. 
 
4. M. Toohill shared draft Mission Statement and Goals. Minor edits were suggested and accepted. 
A. Lockwood moved that OSC accept the Mission Statement and Goals and that M. Toohill 
present same to Select Board. C. Shapiro seconded. Voted unanimously in favor by roll call. 
 
5. M. Toohill presented draft bylaw to establish standalone OSC, and highlighted new/aspirational 
changes such as: 
a. Membership change (adding member of Ag Comm in place of at-large) 
b. Establishing terms (with no term limit) 
c. Maintaining an inventory of publicly-owned open space 
d. Developing community education programs and communication tools regarding value 
and use of open space areas. 
Minor edits were discussed and accepted. A. Lockwood moved that the OSC accept the draft 
bylaw and that M. Toohill circulate it to the Town Manager, Town Council, Select Board, and 
other committees for feedback. C. Shapiro seconded. Voted unanimously by roll call. 
 
6. Reports from Other Boards: Recreation has not had a meeting, pushed to December due to no 
agenda items. A Lockwood discussed Economic Development Council meet and greet and new 
chair. Glenn McLeod of the Select Board was also in attendance and indicated no business from 
Select Board. 
 
7. Other Items Not Anticipated at Time of Meeting Posting: None raised. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
8. Public Comment: No public comment. 
9. Next meetings: Next scheduled meetings: December 10, 2025, and January 14, 2025.  
10. Adjournment: A. Lockwood moved to adjourn, C. Shapiro seconded.  Voted unanimously in 
favor by roll call.  Meeting adjourned at 8:12 pm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Eric Hinds 
 
Minutes approved by roll call vote on 12/10/25 
Respectfully submitted, 
Michael Toohill, Chair 