===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Toton of Lunenburg
R78 INCORE
Cemeters Commission
Lance D. May
aryl Denters
G. Stephen Schaff
The Kunenbburg Cemetery Commission met on Mouember 18, 2014 @ 7:00 pm @The Kurenburg
Public Library with Commissioners Lance May and Stebe Schaff present. Supt of Cemetery's Greg Wingham was
present and Commissioner Daryl Demers did not attend due to work conflicts.
Commissioner Schaff made a motion to open the meeting with Commissioner Lance May seconding his motion. The vote carried
to open the meeting
No Public Discussion took place.
No minutes were available for discussion.
The Meeting came to order with discussion taking place on the crack filling of road ways in the
North and South Cemetery and reviewing 3 bids. Black Dawg Of NH submitted a bid for $3,300.00, Prescott Landscaping
submitted a bid for $3,503.80 and Walts Drive Way submitted a bid for $2,800.00. Steve Schaff made a motion to award the bid
to Walts Drive Way for $2,800.00, Lance May seconded his motion and with no further discussion, the vote was unanimous.
Discussion on the hearing results from the Lunenburg Historical Commission on the Holman Street Property took place along
with a clean-up of the property. Greg was to follow-up on the property's clean-up.
Discussion followed on the current condition of the Ferris lawnmower and Greg's suggestion to update
this piece of equipment at some point. He will follow up with Shepard's Service and speak to Glen Shepherd on the pricing-as the
state bidding procedures would have to be followed.
The plans and building of a niche wall was discussed by Greg -as he has contacted Monty Tech to assist with the construction.
Proposed costs were discussed for material and labor. But, with-out knowing how much Monty Tech's commitment would be,
this would have to be discussed at another meeting. A time table to begin the project should be established once, we know of
Monty Tech's Time Line for availability. Greg is to send a letter to Monty Tech to get their commitment to do the project and then
follow-up with Barbara Reynolds, the Lunenburg Representative to the Monty Tech School Board.
Greg is also to follow-up on excavating bids that will be required to pour a footing.
Greg requested that the commission look the current fee structure for week-end or overtime burials
-as he felt it should increase. He suggested the fee should be increased from $300 to $500.00-as other
area cemetery's had increased their fees.
Steve Schaff made a motion to increase the week-end /overtime fee from $300.00 to $500.00. Lance May seconded the motion
and with no further discussion the motion to increase this fee was passed unanimously.
No further business came before the commission and there was no further public comment
Steve Schaff made a motion to adjourn and Lance May seconded... with no further discussion, an unanimous motion carried.
Time of adjournment was 10:00 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Steve Schaff
