===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
_com
191
Cemetery Commission
®. Stephen Schaff, Chairman
Korraine Mendoza, Vice Chairman
Lance D. Map, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on DECEMBER 8, 2016 at the Lunenburg Public
Library @ 7:00 p.m.
Members present were Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza, and Steve Schaff along with Todd
Holman, Supt. of Cemetery's:
Chair Schaff called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm and asked for the approval of the.
September 16, 2016 meeting. A motion was made by Commissioner Mendoza and
seconded by Commissioner May to accept the minutes and upon no further discussion
the minutes were accepted
Chair Schaff asked if any correspondence was received and Commissioner May stated he had
received an inquiry from Katy Whitaker seeking to add The Lunenburg Cemeteries-as an
approved site for the program called "Wreaths Across America". The Commission asked Todd
Holman to respond back to her -as they needed more information.
Public Discussion: Jeff Smith, 60 Valley Rd, Lunenburg, asked for 15 minutes to speak and he
was granted. Mr. Smith wanted to discuss with the Commission, 6 issues. The four issues he
brought up before his time expired were his offer of providing a "veteran's gate" @ the North
Cemetery, requests for a winter burial policy, keeping the cemeteries open year round for access
by wanting to know who would determine the opening and closing of the cemeteries and his
concern for a traffic pattern at the North Cemetery thru the "center gate"-as he felt it was too
dangerous to pull out onto Holman Street at this entrance and exit.
Chair Schaff, responded to Mi. Smith by asking him to send the commission a letter and put his
offer of a donated "veteran's gate" into a letter. As-to the aforementioned other inquiries, Chair
Schaff said that these Rule Changes would be discussed later during the meeting:
Mr. Smith also wanted to know about The Town's policy and conduct -as he felt he should have
been able to meet with the Director of Public Works and the Town Manager to get his questions
asked and answers given. This discussion went back and forth with Mr. Smith and he was told he
would be asked to leave the meeting should he not comply with the request that his time was up
and no further discussion from him was necessary.
Under Old Business, the commissioners decided to discuss the rule changes later in the meeting.
A follow-up with Monty Tech for the work that was done by the Carpentry and Masonry classes
and advisors, Jim Brooks and Dick Demers, was done by Chair Schaff who reported that
everyone appreciated the Commission's thanks.
Todd Holman, Supt of Cemeteries reported that the fall maintenance schedule went well
and he appreciated the assistance he received from Sheriff Evangelidis and the community
service program. He pointed out that for 2017, The South Cemetery would need to be updated
with the pruning of trees and overgrown bushes. Also discussed was the need to begin looking at
===PAGE 2===
broken, cracked, or fallen grave markers. Todd thought that this would be a good project to work
on and develop a plan to fix these grave stones over the winter months for spring.
A brief discussion took place with the mention that the Cemetery Article to appropriate funds at
the November Special Town Meeting passed.
Columbarium Plans for the North Cemetery were being put together to find two additional
companies to show interest on the project and submit their plans.
Changes to the Cemetery Rules were discussed and it was determined that Chair Schaff was to.
meet with the Town Mgr., Heather Lemieux, and request Town Council review the present rules
and make suggestions to update where needed.
Additionally, two new rules were reviewed and accepted by the Commission and they are as
follows: The New rules governing the opening and closing of the Cemetery's will be determined
by the Cemetery Chairman and Cemetery Supt-as needed and the vehicular traffic issue was
discussed by Commissioner May, who informed the commission that he had spoken to Police
Chiet, Jim Marino and in consultation with Todd Holman suggested to the commission, the
closest gate, (center gate), be made one way into the cemetery from Holman Street due to safety.
concerns. Although Mr. Smith continued to interrupt the Commission's discussion and was
reminded that he was out of order, Commissioner May went on to say that he personally went
over to the North Cemetery and attempted to drive out of that center gate and found it to be a
"safety issue"-as his site path looking left and right onto Holman Street was not clear due to the
road layout.
Commissioner Mendoza made a motion to accept this two changes, Chair Schaff seconded her
motion and upon no further discussion the motion carried to allow for the Chairman and Supt of
Cemetery's to open and close them due to seasonal weather related issues and to make the center
gate a one-way entrance.
Under New Business, The next meeting date is set for January 10, 2017 at 7:00 p.m.
Chair Schaff asked for a motion to close the meeting and Commissioner Mendoza made that
motion with Commissioner May offering a second. There was no further discussion on the
motion and it passed unanimously to adjourn the meeting.
Time of adjournment was 9:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Lance D. May, clerk
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 0 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
