===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Cemetery Commission
G. Stephen Schaff, Chairman
Lorraine Alendosa, Dice Chairman
Lance B. May, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on September 30, 2016 at the Holman Street Cemetery.
Members present were Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza and Steve Schaff along with Todd Holman, (Supt
of Cemetery's).
Guests included Bobby and Kelly Pearson from Leominster Monuments and Dave Fournier and Tom
Burrington from Rock of Ages Memorial Corp.
Chairman Schaff called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m. to open up discussion on the 3 bids that were
submitted to replace the shrubs previously destroyed by an act of vandalism. Bids were received from
Gatsby Ground Services, Lakeview Landscaping, and Novak Landscaping.
Commissioner May and Supt Holman "recused" themselves from any further discussion on the bids-as
family members were employed by two of the companies submitting bids.
Chair Schaff and Vice Chair Mendoza discussed and reviewed the bids and on a motion from Vice Chair
Mendoza and a second from Chair Schaff, and upon no further discussion, a unanimous Vote was made to
award the bid to the lowest bidder, Lakeview Landscaping. Since, the bid was awarded, Supt Holman is to
reach out to Lakeview to begin the work necessary to replant new shrubs and report back to Chair Schaff
on the replanting progress and the maintenance of the new shrubs.
Supt. Holman informed the Commission that the Town Insurance would not pay for the damage and the
cost to replant the shrubs needs to be paid by the Cemetery Commission and the highway dept. will assist
with the landscaping that should help with holding down the cost!
Chairman Schaff introduced Guests Kelly and Bobby Pearson from Leominster Monument Co-as well-as
Dave Fournier and Tom Burrington from the Rock of Ages Memorial Corp for the purpose of further
discussion on the design and development of the new Niche Wall and Memorial Column Barium
Building.
After much discussion on where to put a Niche Wall and Column Barium, a site review was conducted on
the new lower section of the North Cemetery. However, all of the consultants suggested that both the
Niche Wall and Column Barium be set up on the new holding tomb building due to its location, parking
and safety access.
Rock of Ages presented a graphic and photo design for discussion and after further discussion along with
many questions, The Commissioners decided to take Rock Of Ages Plans under advisement and would
get back to them for further questions.
The Commissioners thanked their guests and since, there was no public comment, Chair Schaff asked for
a motion to close the meeting with Commissioner May making that motion and Commissioner Mendoza
offering a second. There was no further discussion on the motion and it passed unanimously to adjourn
the meeting.
Time of adjournment was 2:00 pm.
Respectively Submitted,
Lance D. May, Clerk
Zem. LN-Ess
