===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Cemetery Commission
G. Stephen &chaft, Chairman
Lorraine Mendosa, Vice Chairman
Lance D. May, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on March 16, 2017 at the Lunenburg Public Library.
Members present were Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza, Steve Schaff and Todd Holman, (Supt of
Cemetery's).
No Public Comment took place.
No minutes were available for discussion.
No Correspondence was received.
Leominster Monuments Appointment was at 7:15 PM.
Chair Schaff opened the meeting at 7:00 pm to discuss the warrant article that was to be placed onto The
Town Meeting Warrant and noted that this information needed to be given to The Town Manager by
Thursday, March 27, 2017 at 4:00 pm. Commissioner May went on to inquire about the $ amount that the
Commission was to place on that warrant and after reviewing the current need for week to week
operations and adding into that amount the need for the cost associated with the Colum-barium
project, (part II), it was decided to request an amount of $84,200.00.
Commissioner Mendoza made a motion to put the amount of $84,200.00 onto the May Town Meeting
Warrant. Commissioner May seconded her motion and without further discussion, Chair Schaff called for
a vote and the vote was unanimous to put this amount of $84,200.00 onto the Town Meeting Warrant and
to give this information to the Town Manager's Office by March 27, 2017.
At 7:15 pm, Bobby and Kelly Pearson from Leominster Monuments were asked to join the meeting to
present to the Commission for their review -a follow-up on preliminary plans that were presented at the
January meeting for the building of the Colum-barium and Niche wall at the North Cemetery. Further
discussion took place on the cost, design and materials -as well -as establishing a time line for the
establishment of bids. It was determined by the Commission that the over-all cost to build this Colum-
barium should not exceed $50,000.00 and that the bids and construction should not exceed this amount. It
was also determined that the Bid specs would be written -up to select the design and type of materials to
be used and where possible, adding the words), "or equal materials" with additional language added for a
performance bond and a prevailing wage statement to be requested from each bidder and the words "The
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission reserves the right to accept or reject any and all bids".
Additionally, a time-line was established to prepare the bids by March 27 and to get them sent to
perspective bidders, so-those bidders would have the time during April to assemble their bids and forward
them to Todd Holman's attention before the Commission's next meeting on April 27, 2017
Commissioner Mendoza made a motion to prepare the bids and time-line -as discussed. Commissioner
May seconded her motion and with-out further discussion, Chair Schaff called for a vote and the vote was
unanimous to proceed ahead in this direction.
===PAGE 2===
Chair Schaff thanked Bobby and Kelly Pearson from Leominster Monument for attending the meeting.
Chair Schaff reported that the update on the rules are still being reviewed by Town Council and has no
time table for when they will be ready to adopt by the Commission.
Todd Holman, (Supt. of Cemetery's), reported that he was dealing with a Beaver Problem and asked the
Commission what they wanted to do. After some discussion, the Commission asked Todd to look into the
cost of removing the beavers and to report back to the Commission.
Additionally, Todd inquired about renting or purchasing a "lift" to assist him in the receiving tomb due to
the height of the storage shelves used for caskets. He pointed out that he will have a busy spring due to
the # of burials that are being planned due to the winter conditions and families want to proceed ahead
with funerals and the "lift" would assist him. The Commission will take this matter under advisement.
Todd went on-to discuss a project that the Lunenburg Boy-scouts were interested in doing and that is to
assist in the fixing and restoration of markers in both the North and South Cemeteries and is in the
process of reaching out to them for a time-table to begin. Chair Schaff thanked Supt. Holman for his
report.
Under New Business, the Commission reviewed the date of April 27 at 7:00 pm for their next meeting.
No further business came before the Commission and Chair Schaff asked for a motion to close the
meging With chaisalled for devotaking thas main is a second by Commissioner May to
Time of Adjournment was 9:05 pm
Respectfully Submitted,
Lance D. May
Clerk
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 19 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
