===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lorrame menoosa, Dice-chair
William Tyler, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on November 30, 2017 at the Lunenburg Public Library.
The meeting was called to order at 7:10 pm. Members present were Commissioners Lance May, Lorraine
Mendoza, William Tyler and Cemetery Supt. Todd Holman.
Minutes from the October 12' meeting were reviewed and upon a motion by Chairman May to accept
the minutes, seconded by Vice-Chairman Mendoza, and with no further discussion, the motion passed
unanimously.
Chairman May's letter to Town Manager Heather Lemieux was discussed concerning Supt. Holmans
availability for Winter burials since the new Columbarium has been installed. The Commission discussed
the November 27* letter that was sent to the Town Manager, Heather Lemieux, and agreed to direct the
Chairman to follow-up with her should no reply be received.
Nancy Gray, a member of the Charter Review Committee appeared before the Commission to discuss
our involvement in the process. It was decided to have the Charter Review Committee contact us for a
time and date for a meeting.
Account expenses was the next topic, and with an update from the Town accountant, there is
$4892.87 left in the Capital Article. The only expenses left to be subtracted are $422.00 for loam and
$100.00 for the outhouse the prisoners from the Worcester County House of Correction use while
working at the Cemeteries. It was also discussed whether the prisoners might be available in the Spring.
Bids for the lettering of the niches at the new Columbarium will be opened and awarded at the
January meeting.
It was decided that the Rules and Regulations will be amended to include rates for the new Niches in
the Columbarium. Also, Steve Malandrinos, IT director, will be contacted to reflect the changes in our
Rules and Regulations, on the Town's website.
Kenneth Chester and Bruce Chester both wrote letters of thanks for Supt. Holman in regards to their
recent loss, and how grateful they were for his help.
The Boy Scout project is almost completed at North Cemetery, with concrete poured and benches to
be installed around the Flag pole, in honor of our Veterans.
With no further business to discuss, a motion was made by Chairman May to adjourn, seconded by
Vice Chairman Mendoza, the meeting was adjourned at 9:30 pm.
Respectfully submitted, William Tyler, Clerk
