===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
192
Centetery Connission
B. Stephen Schaff, Chairman
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice Chairman
Lance I. May, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on January 31, 2017 at The Lunenburg Public
Library @ 7:00 p.m.
Members present were Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza, and Steve Schaff. Todd Holman
was unavailable due to plowing snow from an existing snow storm.
Supt of Highways, Jack Rodriquenz and Police Chief, Jim Marino were present.
Chair Schaff called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and the minutes from October 16, 2016,
were reviewed and upon a motion from Commissioner Mendoza to accept them -as read, and a
second by Commissioner May and without any further discussion, the motion passed
unanimously.
Commissioner May read one letter of correspondence from The Selectmen's Office requesting an
article be submitted to them for the Town's 2017 Annual Report. Chair Schaff was to speak to
Todd to submit this article.
Under appointments, Jeff Smith of 60 Valley Rd, Lunenburg was given 15 minutes to speak and
he began with a concern about vehicular traffic and access to the cemeteries during the winter
months. It was pointed out to him that The Cemeteries are closed to vehicular traffic during the
winter months due to liability and to keep traffic off of unplowed roads that encompass plot
bound markers of those owned plots, (burial sites).
Mr. Smith, also inquired about the lack of handicap accessibility and felt this was not allowing
for safe access and the town was in violation of the Americans for disability act, both federal and
state. He went onto say that from previous attempts to bring this and other issues before the
town manager, police chief and highway director that he was denied his right to due process and
wanted his comments to be placed on record!
Chair Schaff informed him that he was beyond his 15 minutes and his time was up. He continued
to speak and was given a warning about being removed from the room should he continue.
At this point during the meeting Chair Schaff called for a recess to set up tables for the 7:30 p.m.
appointment of Leominster Monument Co.
At 7:35 pm The Commission mẹt with Leominster Monuments to discuss the submitted
engineered drawings from two additional Columbarium Companies. The drawings were
reviewed and questions were asked. However, due to the disruption and questions being asked by
Jeff Smith during the discussion with Leominster Monuments, Chair Schaff suggested the
commission take this material under advisement and thanked Leominster Monuments for
attending the meeting during a snowstorm.
===PAGE 2===
At this point in the meeting, Mr. Smith was informed for the 4 time, his opportunity to speak
was out of order and he was asked to be seated. He continued his out of order questions and the
police were asked to escort him from the room which they did at 8:40 p.mm.
After bringing order back to the meeting, Chair Schaff brought up for discussion the review of
the current cemetery rules that he had submitted, (after Commission review), to the Town Mngr's
office.
One rule, (310, 2-D...winter burials), was reviewed by the Commission, concerning burials
during the winter months in a closed, (to vehicular traffic), cemetery.
Under Mass State Law, anyone who wishes to be buried in a cemetery, especially during the
winter months must be accommodated. Upon a motion by Commissioner May and a second by
Commissioner Mendoza, This rule is amended to read -as follows, "Burials may be made during
CLOSED seasonal cemetery conditions with prior approval of the Supt. of Cemeteries and in
consultation and approval with the Lunenburg Cemetery Commission's Chairman."
No further comment was made on this motion and it passed on a unanimous vote.
Next Meeting will be on March 16, 2017.
No further business came before the cemetery commission and a motion was made by
Commissioner Mendoza and seconded by Commissioner May to adjourn. Without further
discussion, Chair Schaff called for the vote and it was unanimous to adjourn.
Time of adjournment was 9:09 p.m.
Police Chief, Jim Marino provided the Commissioners with an escort from the building.
Respectfully submitted,
Lance D. May, Clerk
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 0 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN.
CLERK OFFICE
