===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
L9M Lam
Town of Lunenburg
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 1 9 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Cemeters Commission
B. Stephen Schaft, Chairman
Korraine Mendosa, Vice Chairman
Lance D. AlaD, Clerli
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on April 27, 2017 at The Lunenburg Public Library
@ 7:00 pm.
Members present were Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza and Steve Schaff and Supt. of
Cemetery's, Todd Holman
Chair Schaff called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm with no public comment and the minutes
from December 8, 2016 and January 31, 2017, were reviewed and upon a motion from
Commissioner Mendoza to accept them -as read, and a second by Commissioner May and with-
out any further discussion, the motion passed unanimously.
Under Old Business, Chair Schaff 55 a 1
a letter to The Town Mngr, Heather Lemieux that he felt
answered her request for an explanation for the additional amount of $ that was being requested
to be transferred at Town Meeting, (article 18), out of a Cemetery revolving account to an
operational cemetery account and with no further discussion, Chair Schaff was asked to forward
it along.
3 Bids to build the Column-barium and niche wall at The North Cemetery were received and
opened by the Commission. After discussing and reviewing the bids, Commissioner Mendoza
made a motion to accept the bid from the Rock of Ages Corp of Graniteville, VT-as they
presented their bid amount in conjunction with the required job's bid prospectus.
Commissioner May seconded her motion and upon no further discussion, a unanimous vote to
award the bid was made pending funding to be approved at the Town Meeting on May 6.
The Rules and Regulations -as reviewed are pending final review and will be brought back
at the May meeting for a formal vote of acceptance by the Commission.
Todd Holman reported on the # of burials that have taken place and the # that will take place, (as
this winter's conditions backed -up all of the burials), is resulting in a need to attend to this issue
immediately.
No new business came before the commission and Chair Schaff asked for a motion to close the
meeting with Commissioner May offering that motion and Commissioner Mendoza offering a
2n°. There was no further discussion on the motion and it passed unanimously to adjourn the
meeting. Time of Adjournment was 8:55 pm.
Next Meeting will be on MAy il, 2017
Respectfully submitted,
Lance D. May, Clerk
