===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 6 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on September 7, 2017 at the Lunenburg Pu6VE Far At 7: boE
pm. Members present were Chairman Lance May, Vice-Chairman Lorraine Mendoza, William Tyler, Clerk
and Todd Holman, Cemetery Supt.
Chairman May called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
No minutes were available for approval.
A letter from Geire Geigas dated July 17, 2017 was read, thanking Supt. Holman for his continued
dedication to caring for the Cemeteries in Town and how good they look.
In the Public Comment portion of the meeting, Mike Clark described the Eagle Scout project his son
wants to do. It involves placing wreaths at all Veterans graves prior to Christmas. He intends to do the
North Cemetery and possibly the South would be done as a future Eagle Scout project. It is in
conjunction with Wreaths Across America. It was decided to take under advisement until more details
were available.
Under old business, the North Cemetery Receiving Tomb and Niche Wall was discussed and Supt.
Holman stated that the last week of September was the starting date for construction. Rock of Ages was
to call a week before to confirm.
The subject of Rules and Regulations was brought up, and it was agreed that the opening and closing of
the Cemeteries was our call. Also, it was decided to re-write the vehicular traffic regulations next year.
Supt. Holman mentioned that the Lions Club is working to replace one of the Blue Spruce trees that they
had donated, because it didn't survive.
Under new business, sealed bids were opened and reviewed for the North Cemetery paving project,
including the State mandated regulations for handicap access. It was decided to take them under
advisement until the June meeting because of the time frame for appropriations
The tree cutting project at South Cemetery Section #1, was discussed and after reviewing the three bids,
Commissioner Mendoza made a motion to accept the bid of T. Bennett Tree Service for the amount of
$7200.00. Commissioner Tyler seconded, and with no further discussion, the motion passed
unanimously. The three bids for Section #2 was discussed, and a motion by Commissioner Tyler was
made to accept the bid of $4800.00 by M&M Tree Service and was seconded by Commissioner
Mendoza, no further discussion ensued, so the motion passed unanimously.
The paving project at South Cemetery which consists of paving a section of roadway 100 feet by 10 feet
was discussed with three bids before the Commission. Commissioner Tyler made a motion to accept the
bid of $2000.00 by Miller's Paving, with a second from Commissioner Mendoza, and without further
discussion the motion passed unanimously.
New street signs at the North and South Cemetery was discussed and a motion by Commission Tyler was
made to accept the bid from Atlantic Broom for 39- 6- inch signs and 22 crosses, for a total of $1077.44.
Commissioner Mendoza seconded and the motion passed unanimously.
After some discussion, it was decided to send a letter to Mr. David Dunn, 22 Bennett Rd. Gardner, Ma. A
letter requesting the bench be removed from their gravesite along with the sneakers that are hanging
===PAGE 2===
from a pole. According to our regulations, the gravesite may contain either a headstone or a bench, not
both. Adornments such as the sneakers are not allowed.
Lastly, the subject of entry signs that display Cemetery rules was brought up, because of individuals
letting their dogs run loose. It was decided to include just 2 rules for the present, as other rules could be
added at a later time. One being that dogs must be leashed and shrubs must be kept trimmed. A motion
was made to purchase 2- 3 x 5 foot signs from D&G Graphics, not to exceed $2500.00, one for North and
one for South Cemetery, by Commissioner Mendoza, seconded by Commissioner Tyler, with no further
discussion, the motion passed unanimously. Supt. Holman was to report back in October with further
rules and regulations.
With no further new business, Chairman May asked for a motion to adjourn, with Commissioner
Mendoza offering that motion. Commissioner Tyler seconded, and it was passed unanimously to adjourn
the meeting. Meeting was adjourned at 10:05 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
William Tyler, Clerk
