===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
A 2e12 te
Town of Lunenburg
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 19 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Cemetery Commission
G. Stephen Schaff, Chairman
Korraine Mendosa, Vice Chairman
Lance D. May, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on May 11, 2017 at the Lunenburg Public Library @ 7:00pm.
Members present were Commissioner's Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza, Steve Schaff and Todd
Holman, Supt of Cemetery's
Chair Schaff called the meeting to order @7:00 pm and with no public comment, Commissioner May
read a letter from the building inspector concerning an abutter's need to clean up debris @ The South
Cemetery. Commissioner May stated that a letter was sent to the Town Manager's Office notifying her of
the successful bid received from the Rock of Ages Co-along with a copy of the bid specs and bid!
Minutes from the March 16, and April 27, 2017 meetings were reviewed and upon a motion by
Commissioner Mendoza to accept the minutes and a second by Commissioner May and without further
discussion, the motion passed unanimously.
Under Old business, a discussion and review took place on the outcome of the warrant article, # 18 at the
recent Town Meeting, May 6, 2017, and since the article passed, appropriations in the amount of
$84,200.00 will be available after July 1.
Discussion followed on the contract that is to be drawn up with The Rock of Ages Co. out of Graniteville,
Vt.05654 and Commissioner Schaff was to follow-up with the Town Mngr, Heather Lemieux to
determine the direction on how the Contract was to be drawn up and when it would be ready for our
signatures. A question on the performance bond that is required to be paid by the Rock of Ages Co and the
account that it is to be placed into. Chr. Schaff was to follow-up on this -as well!
Chair Schaff brought up for discussion the Updated Rules and Regulations that have been pending for
several weeks. Commissioner Mendoza offered a motion to accept the Updated Rules and Regulations -as
written and Commissioner May seconded her motion and without any further discussion, the motion
passed unanimously adopting the Updated Rules.
Todd Holman in his report, asked to purchase 10 yards of loam for the S. Cemetery. He went on -to say
the months of April and early May were busy, (and was working around the Rainy conditions), with many
burials that were a result of this past winter's conditions and would be busy thru June to get caught up.
He also informed the Commission that the mower was in the repair shop to be fixed and would try to
work around the rain with the grass mowing while catching up with the many burials before The
Memorial Day Week.
Todd also asked the Commission to look into leasing or renting a backhoe for the purpose of emergencies
when the Town Highway Dept.'s back-hoe is not available. This request is being made by The Highway
Supt. Jack Rodriquenz. After a discussion, The Commissioner's agreed to take this request under
advisement.
No new business came before the Commission and Chr. Schaff asked for a motion to close the meeting
with Commissioner Mendoza offering that motion and Commissioner May offering a second. There was
iü further discussion on the motion and it passed unanimously to adjourn the meeting. The Time of
adjournment was 9:00 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lance D. May, Clerk
