===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Coon of Zunenburg
Cemetery Commission
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 09 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Lance D. Alay, Chairman
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair
William Wyler, Clerl
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on October 12** at the Lunenburg Public Library.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 pm. Members present were Commissioners Lance May,
Lorraine Mendoza, William Tyler and Cemetery Supt. Todd Holman.
Minutes from the September 7 meeting were reviewed and upon a motion by Commissioner
Mendoza to accept the minutes and a second by Commissioner May, and with no further
discussion, the motion passed unanimously.
No correspondence was received.
During Public Comment, Steven Archambault from the Charter Review Committee, mentioned
that the review process would be beginning shortly, and we would be invited to participate.
Under Old Business, Commissioner Tyler stated that he would draft a letter to Mr. Dunn
concerning the adornments and bench at the South Cemetery that are in violation of the Rules
and Regulations under Chapter 310.
The Columbarium was installed on October 10* at the North Cemetery under the direction of
Supt. Holman and the crew from Rock of Ages and Leominster Monument. It was suggested
that a photo should be taken of the Columbarium with members of the Commission, Supt.
Holman, former Supt. Bingham, former Commission Chair Steve Schaff and a representative of
Leominster Monument, for insertion into the Lunenburg Ledger.
Rates for the Columbarium Niche Wall was discussed, and a motion by Chairman May was
made to set the rate of $1200.00 per niche, which would hold 2 cremations, and would also
include the engraving. Also in the motion was to have only Leominster Monument do the
engraving. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Tyler, and with no further discussion
was passed unanimously. We also have three extra cover plates, so that the niches will always
be sealed during engraving.
Chairman May mentioned that he is going to draft a letter to the Town Manager concerning
Supt. Holman's availability for year- round burials since the Niche Wall will be accessible during
the Winter months.
Supt. Holman presented the Commissioners with several invoices including repairs to the old
Ferris mower, tree work in the South Cemetery, shrub replacement for shrubs that were
===PAGE 2===
damaged by accident and an invoice for the new Ferris mower recently purchased from
Sheperd's. These were all approved with the exception of the new Ferris mower. The
Commission had concerns that since we were buying it, we wanted to make sure it was used
only by Supt. Holman and only for the Cemeteries.
Town Manager Heather Lemieux was present as an invited guest and agreed to draft a letter
stating that the new Ferris mower would be the property of the Cemetery Dept, and would not
be used for any other purpose. After some discussion a motion was made by Commissioner
May to pay for the new mower, understanding that a letter would be forthcoming. The motion
was seconded by Commissioner Tyler and with no further discussion was approved
unanimously.
Lastly, Supt. Holman mentioned that he would like to attend Dept. Superintendent meetings,
and the Town Manager said she would make sure he is included in the future.
With no further new business to discuss, a motion was made by Commissioner Tyler to
adjourn, seconded by Commissioner May, with no further discussion, the meeting was
adjourned at 9:11 pm
Respectfully Submitted
William Tyler, Clerk.
