===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
  
Cemetery Commission                                                                  
Lance D. May, Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice- Chairman 
William Tyler, Clerk     
 
Minutes 
Meeting July 12, 2018 
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 pm by Chairman Lance May. Present were 
Vice-Chair Lorraine Mendoza, Clerk William Tyler and Superintendent Todd 
Holman. First order of business was approval of minutes from the June 20, 2018 
meeting. On a motion by Chairman May, seconded by Commissioner Mendoza, 
and with no errors or omissions and no further discussion, it was voted 
unanimously to accept the minutes as written. 
 
Since there was not any public comment or correspondence to report, Old 
Business was the next topic on the agenda. 
 
After some discussion on the matter of invoices from M&M Services for the use 
of a backhoe, because the equipment was not available from the DPW for 3 
burials this Spring, a motion was made by Commissioner Tyler to decline paying 
these invoices that totaled $1080.00 and seek to reach an understanding from 
the Town Manager when their equipment is needed and pre-arranged, but 
unavailable for use. Also, in the motion was to have Chairman May draft a letter 
to the Town Manager on this subject. Motion was seconded by Commissioner 
Mendoza, and with no further discussion, it was voted unanimously to approve 
the motion. 
 
On the subject of technology, Commission Tyler said he would follow-up with the 
Town Manager on the Facebook page that was discussed at the June 20 meeting. 
 
On the Holman St. building and proposed demolition, it was announced that the 
Cemetery Commission is scheduled to meet with the Historical Commission on 
July 31, 2018 at 7:00 pm at the Ritter building for a hearing on the demolition 
application that was filed with the Building Inspector . 
 
There was nothing to report on the Handicap access plans for the Niche Wall at 
North Cemetery. 
 
Chairman May stated that the subject of future growth with the Montachusett 
Regional Planning Commission, is still pending and will be followed up at a future 
meeting. 
 

===PAGE 2===
Chairman May presented the Commission with several handouts regarding 
safety issues as it applies to excavation and burials. Commissioner Tyler will 
follow up with more research on the subject. 
Commissioner Tyler is in the process of determining how to get seasonal help 
for the Superintendent next year, through any means necessary. He will report  
back at the next meeting. 
 
Superintendent Holman reported that the headstone straightening project by a 
member of Troop 1728 for his Eagle Scout project is complete, and he and other 
members straightened 80 headstones in the North Cemetery. He also reported 
that mowing and trimming is ongoing and the Cemeteries are in good shape. 
 
There will be no meeting in August 
Next meeting is scheduled for September 13, 2018 at the Lunenburg Public 
Library Conference room. 
 
With no further items on the agenda, a motion was made to adjourn by 
Commissioner Mendoza, seconded by Commission Tyler . Meeting was adjourned 
at 9:30 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted 
William Tyler, Clerk  
 
                                                         