===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lorrame Helendosa, Wice-clair
William Opler, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on January 11, 2018 at the Lunenburg Public Library. The
meeting was called to order at 7:00 pm. Members present were: Commissioners Lance May, Lorraine
Mendoza, William Tyler and Cemetery Supt. Todd Holman
Minutes from the November 30, 2017 meeting were reviewed and upon a motion by Chairman May to
accept the minutes, seconded by Commissioner Tyler, and with no further discussion, the motion passed
unanimously.
Chairman May's meeting with the Town Manager on January 8, 2018 and the follow-up letter sent to
her on January 9, 2018 was discussed with no apparent change in the usage of Supt. Holman at the Town
Cemeteries, from November 27, 2017 to January 11, 2018.
The communication between the Charter Review Committee (CRC) and the Cemetery Commission was
discussed since Chairman May attended their meeting on January 10, 2018, following CRC member
Nancy Gray's visit to our meeting on November 30, 2017. A letter was also sent to CRC Chairman Robert
Ebersole describing the changes proposed to the Charter.
Commissioner Tyler reported to the Commission that his email to Town Accountant Karen Brochu was
answered and it was presented to the Commission concerning finances and expenditures. The only
expenses left to pay at the moment is $422.00 for loam and food and bathroom facilities for the
prisoners from the Worcester County House of Correction.
With the population of Lunenburg increasing, the subject of space left at both Cemeteries was
discussed and it was concluded that we have adequate room left for the foreseeable future. Although
further expansion is possible at the North Cemetery.
A change in policy regarding our Rules and Regulations was presented by Chairman May, involving
changing the delegation and supervision of the day to day care and maintenance of the Town Cemeteries
by the Town Manager, without the prior approval of the Cemetery Commission. A motion was made to
accept this change by Commissioner Mendoza, seconded by Commissioner Tyler, and with no further
discussion was passed unanimously. Commissioner Tyler will send a copy of the change to the Town
Clerk for posting.
The deadline for submission of information for the Town Report is February 15, 2018.
The next scheduled meeting of the Cemetery Commission is February 12, 2018 at the Lunenburg Public
Library. With no further business to discuss, a motion was made by Chairman May to adjourn, seconded
by Commissioner Mendoza. Meeting was adjourned at 9:05 pm.
Respectfully Submitted, William Tyler, Clerk.
-
===PAGE 2===

