===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
William Tyler, Clerk
Cemetery Commission Meeting
May 10, 2018
Lunenburg Public Library
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on May 10, 2018 at the Lunenburg Public
Library Conference Room. The meeting was called to order by Chairman May at 7:05 pm.
Members present were Chairman Lance May, Vice Chairman Lorraine Mendoza, Clerk
William Tyler and Superintendent Todd Holman.
Minutes from the April 12, 2018 meeting were read as well as the minutes from the May 4,
2018 site visit to North Cemetery. With no corrections or omissions, a motion was made
by Comm. Mendoza to accept the minutes as written. Seconded by Comm. May, and
with no further discussion, motion passed unanimously.
In the Public Comment part of the meeting, Dave Passios was present and wanted to
give the Commission an update concerning one of the wells at North Cemetery. Mr.
Passios volunteers his service to the maintaining of the wells and pumps at both
Cemeteries. The well in question has an accumulation of sand and gravel at the bottom,
making water unavailable later in the summer. He is going to work on resolving this Issue
by trying to extract the sand with help from the Fire Dept.
Correspondence received from the Town Manager concerning our use of the
appropriation requested at Town Meeting. The Town Manager was informed that it was
for our annual operation budget along with other improvements. Our warrant article
passed at Town Meeting with no discussion.
Because of a need to upgrade our back-up server, which stores all the Cemetery
records, an agreement was made between the IT director and Ramaker Associates for
an upgrade to a Cloud based system. The Cemetery Commission would pay $350.00
toward the cost this year with IT paying the remainder. Next year IT would pick up the
total cost of the upgrade with the Cemetery Commission responsible for the annual
$1200.00 fee.
A short discussion was had concerning our current Rules and Regulations, no action
was taken.
Under the topic of future growth and planning, discussion ensued concerning
population growth and the increased number of burials every year, and how the
Commission would respond to that added growth. On that same topic it was decided to
formulate a Mission Statement that would address this growth and establish a 5 year
plan that would address the Town's Cemeteries for the future. While addressing our
future needs, discussion ensued pertaining to the old Cemetery building on Holman St.
and the future of this building. It was decided that the Commission would invite the
===PAGE 2===
during the week of May 14-18 to help in cleanup from the Winter.
The Boy Scouts are planning a service at the newly constructed memorial at the flag
pole at North Cemetery on Memorial Day.
Supt. Holman gave an update on maintenance at both Cemeteries. He reported that a
chain was stolen from the North Cemetery that blocks entrance into the new area. A
Police report was filed. Robin Burch informed the Supt. that the Memorial Fund donated
$100.00 towards the purchase of a new spruce tree.
Comm. Tyler informed the Commission of his idea to start a Face Book page for the
Commission. He felt that Social Media has become a very popular platform for many
people to get the latest updates and information concerning the Town. The Commission
agreed, and it was decided to pursue this with the Town Manager to get her input before
we proceed.
With no further items on the agenda, a motion was made by Comm. Mendoza to adjourn,
seconded by Comm. Tyler. With no further discussion the motion passed. Meeting was
adjourned at 10:05 pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully submitted
William Tyler, Clerk
JUN 25 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
