===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
  
Cemetery Commission                                                                  
Lance D. May, Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice- Chairman 
William Tyler , Clerk     
 
Cemetery Commission Minutes 
October 11, 2018 Meeting 
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:05 pm by Chairman May. Other members 
present were Vice-Chairman, Lorraine Mendoza, and Clerk, William Tyler . 
 
A motion was made by Chairman May to change the order of the agenda, to 
accommodate a member of the Charter Review Committee, who has a previous 
engagement. Seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, voted unanimously. 
 
First order of business was re-organization of the Commission. The following 
nominations were put before the Commission. Lance May, Chair , Lorraine 
Mendoza, Vice-Chair and William Tyler , Clerk, with no further discussion, it was 
voted to accept the nominations as presented unanimously. 
 
Minutes from the September 13th were read and upon a motion by Chair May, 
seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, the minutes were accepted unanimously. 
 
Steve Archambault from the Charter Review Committee was present to give the 
Commission an update on the progress of the committee to this point. He 
informed the Commission that the Committee meets the second and fourth 
Wednesdays of every month. Dates to include: 10/24, 11/7, 12/12 and possibly 
12/26. He suggested that we formulate what changes we would want and to 
schedule a meeting with the Charter Committee. 
 
The Holman St. Cemetery building is awaiting demolition, pending a plan to 
remove the old gravestones that are scattered around the building. It was 
decided to get a price from M&M Services for the use of a backhoe and operator, 
since the DPW Director cannot commit to giving the Supt. any help in this 
process. Also, upon a motion by Commissioner Tyler , seconded by Vice-Chair 
Mendoza, to purchase a used 8x20 storage container for the purpose of storing 
whatever useful tools and other items that remain in the building before 
demolition. It was voted unanimously to purchase this container . 
 
Cemetery rates were discussed and the possibility of increasing the Niche Wall 
price to $1400.00 was discussed. It was taken under advisement to be further 
discussed at a future meeting. 
 

===PAGE 2===
Also discussed was the possibility of placing an add in the Fitchburg Sentinel 
advertising the Niche Wall and its availability year- round. Commission Tyler will 
follow up with prices before the next meeting. 
 
The subject of the ADA grant for the handicap access to the Niche Wall at North 
Cemetery was discussed, with Commission Tyler reporting that he met with the 
Town Manager and submitted bids for the paving of parking lot and the ADA 
compliant railings, totaling $30,528. Bid notification will occur on December 3, 
2018. 
 
Notification was received of a private donation in memory of George Reichart, a 
former Cemetery Commissioner . His son wishes to donate a sum of money for 
the purchase of signs showing Rules and Regulations for both Cemeteries. It 
was advised that he send a letter stating his wishes and then we could establish 
a special account in his name that could be drawn on to fulfill his wishes. 
 
Commissioner Tyler is in the process of contacting LUK in Fitchburg for 
assistance in obtaining Summer help next year for the Supt. He will report on 
this at the next meeting. 
 
Next meeting date: November 29, 2018 @ 7:00 pm 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made by Chair 
May to adjourn, seconded by Comm. Mendoza. Meeting was adjourned at 9:05 
pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted 
William Tyler , Clerk 
 
                                                         