===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
DUENDURE DOIN
CLE?1
•RICE
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice Chairman
William Tyler, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on February 12, 2018 at the
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room. The meeting was called to order by
Chairman May at 7:00 pm. Members present were Commissioners, Lance May,
Lorraine Mendoza, William Tyler and Cemetery Superintendent Todd Holman.
Minutes from the January 11, 2018 meeting were read and upon a motion by
Chairman May to accept the minutes as written, seconded by Commissioner
Mendoza, and with no further discussion, the motion was passed unanimously.
The Town Clerk's notice was received concerning the Town Caucus on March 12th
and also February 15" is the deadline for submitting information for the Annual
Town Report.
Steve Archambeault, from the Charter Review Committee was present to discuss
the Cemetery Commissions changes to the Town Charter. He was informed by
Chairman May that due to the growth in Town and the need for more availability
from the Cemetery Superintendent the wording in the charter needed to be
amended to add the word "sole" to Section 3-5- line b, powers and duties.
Superintendent Holman submitted his draft of the Town Report to the
Commission and it was accepted as amended. Commissioner Tyler will send it to
the Selectman's office. Superintendent Holman also submitted bills for Maki
Building Supply, Outhouse and food for the Prisoners from the Worcester County
Sheriff's Office. Remaining balance was $2,113.57 in the Sale of Lots Accounts.
The possibility of a Grant to be used for the North Cemetery Receiving Tomb
handicap access ramp was discussed. A motion was requested by Chairman May to
direct Superintendent Holman to develop and design specs for the handicap access
railing and walkway from the Mass Office of Disabilities. The motion was made by
Commissioner Mendoza, seconded by Commissioner Tyler and with no further
discussion, unanimously approved.
===PAGE 2===
Lastly amending Rules and Regulations was discussed, and it was decided to
discuss further at our March meeting.
The next scheduled meeting is March 15' at 7:00 pm at the Lunenburg Public
Library. With no further business to discuss, a motion was made by Chairman May
to adjourn, seconded by Commissioner Mendoza. The meeting was adjourned at
10:30 pm.
Respectfully submitted, William Tyler, Clerk
