===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
William Tyler, Clerk
Minutes
June 20, 2018
Lunenburg Public Library
Conference Room
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM by Chairman May. Members present were: Lance
D. May, Chairman; Lorraine Mendoza, Vice Chairman; William Tyler, Clerk; Todd Holman,
Cemetery Superintendent. Minutes from the May 10, 2018, June 2, 2018 and June 8,
2018 meetings were read, and a motion was made by Comm. Mendoza to accept the
minutes as written, seconded by Commissioner Tyler. With no further discussion it was
voted unanimously to accept the minutes as written.
Under correspondence, a letter from Nancy Yasko was read, praising Supt. Holman for
his work in both Cemeteries. She also proposed that the Town find an appropriate
candidate to help the Supt. in his upkeep of both Cemeteries. Considering how the Town
is growing it is unreasonable to think that one person can continue to meet the needs of
a growing Town with two Cemeteries.
Under Public Comment, DPW Director of Operations Jack Rodriquenz, spoke about
several issues, the first being Winter operations at the DPW garage and Supt. Holman's
involvement. Overtime was also brought up and the need for after hours meetings with
families that want to purchase burial lots, and that he encouraged overtime. Lastly, the
need for coverage at the landfill off Youngs Rd. was discussed as the Superintendent
was scheduled for coverage at the landfill, on the same day as a funeral, Director
Rodriquenz agreed that burials are a priority.
The 7:15 appointment was with Town Manager Heather Lemieux to discuss technology
issues as it pertains to our desire to have our own FaceBook page. She suggested that
we share the DPW page, but Commissioner Tyler responded that we would prefer to
have our own identity and not share the page. The Town Manager said that she would
set up our page as she would be the admin for it. The subject of Town of Lunenburg
emails was brought up, and we were told that the Commissioners would have their own
email account set up by the IT Director. The Town Manager stated that she would have
an update for our next meeting.
After a brief discussion on the demolition of the Cemetery building on Holman St. and
the proposed garage to be built on the site by the students from Monty Tech, the Town
Manager stated that any Capital Planning submissions would have to be in by November
for the annual Town Meeting in May. Commissioner Tyler stated that $15,000 is still in
the Capital plan from 2014 for demolition of the Cemetery building. The Town Manager
stated that we would have to request that this be used for this purpose.
The topic of usage of the DPW backhoe was discussed and the need for it to be
available for burials. Commissioner Tyler pointed out that since the backhoe was not
:
===PAGE 2===
a grant of this nature would not be possible at this time.
Commissioner Tyler brought up the subject of safety as it applies to the burial process,
regarding excavation and backfilling of graves. When graves are excavated, there are
always 2 people on site, because of the need to get in the grave opening to finish the
hand work that is needed to be done. It has come to our attention that this help is not
available for the back-filling portion of the burial. DPW Director of Operations
Rodriquenz stated that since the burial vault is in the grave the depth of the operation is
not a safety issue. He referred to OSHA regulations and didn't feel that one person
completing a grave backfill was in any danger per the regulations. Commissioner Tyler
disagreed and also stated concern for headstone monuments being possibly damaged,
because no one was present to guide the backhoe to where it needs to be, and
ultimately the Commission would be responsible for the damage.
Review of the bills that need to be paid to finish off FY 2018 was discussed, and motions
were made by Commissioner Mendoza, seconded by Comm. Tyler, to pay the following
bills: Central Flag for flags and flag holders for Memorial Day; Powell Stone and Gravel
for loam; Casella Waste Systems for dumpster at North Cemetery and Maki Home
Center for lift rental and supplies for flag pole in North Cemetery. Motion was seconded
by Chairman May and with no further discussion the motion passed unanimously.
Superintendent Holman briefed the Commission on the current Eagle Scout project that
is ongoing at North Cemetery, Eagle Scout candidate Caleb Rawlinson is directing
is directing at
several troop members along with himself in straightening 18th century headstones that
have leaned over the years. Supt. Holman also wanted to make note of trim that was
installed by Jim Lavassuer on the mausoleum. Also, Dave Passios on his work on the
well pumps. Lastly, the help the prisoners from the Worcester County Sheriff's provided
at the Cemeteries this Spring.
Finally, after some discussion it was motioned by Commissioner Tyler to have Chairman
May formalize a letter to the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission requesting
assistance in determining the impact of growth in Lunenburg. Motion was seconded by
Commissioner Mendoza, with no further discussion, the motion passed unanimously.
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by
Chairman May, seconded by Commissioner Tyler, with no further discussion, meeting
was adjourned at 9:50 pm.
Respectfully submitted
William Tyler, Clerk
:
