===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
  
Cemetery Commission                                                                  
Lance D. May, Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice- Chairman 
William Tyler, Clerk   
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Minutes 
September 13, 2018  
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM by Chairman May, other members 
present were Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair, William Tyler, Clerk. Also present 
was Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from meetings of July 12 th, July 31st - August 7th and 
September 5, 2018. Upon a motion by Chair May to accept the minutes as written, 
seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
With no correspondence or public comment, the budget was reviewed and 
vouchers were signed for Ramaker for website maintenance and Lunenburg 
Ledger for advertising. 
 
Comm. Tyler has been in touch with the building dept. at Monty Tech concerning 
the building schedule and will continue to keep the Commission informed of any 
new information. After meeting with the building inspector, it appears we will 
need a plot plan drawn up for the new building in order to get a building permit. It 
was decided to contact Whitman and Bingham, Civil Engineers to get a price and 
after some discussion, a motion was made by Comm. Mendoza seconded by 
Comm Tyler to put a cap of $1000.00 for the plot plan, with no further discussion 
it was approved unanimously. 
 
There was also some discussion of a container to house all the lumber and other 
items in the current building before demolition. No decision was made at this 
time and will be discussed at the next meeting. However, a letter is to be sent to 
the Town Manager, requesting the Superintendent be available for all tasks 
involved with this project. A backhoe will be needed to remove old gravestones 
and other material that is around the base of the building. Comm. Tyler will draft 
the letter and send it to the Town Manager . 
 
Superintendent Holman stated that the prisoners will be available the week of 
November 26-30 for help with leaves and other clean-up duties. 
 
It was decided to discuss Cemetery rates at the next meeting. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn 
by Chair May, seconded by Comm Tyler and with no further discussion, meeting 
was adjourned at 9:15 PM 

===PAGE 2===
Next meeting, October 11, 2018 @ 7:00 PM 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
William Tyler, Clerk 
 
 
 
                                                         