===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice Chairman
William Tyler, Clerk
The Lunenburg Cemetery Commission met on April 12, 2018 at the Lunenburg
Public Library Conference Room. The meeting was called to order by Chairman May
at 7:00 pm. Members present were Commissioners: Lance May, Lorraine Mendoza,
William Tyler and Superintendent Todd Holman.
Minutes from the March 1, 2018 meeting were read and upon a motion by Comm.
Mendoza, seconded by Comm. Tyler and with no further discussion were accepted
unanimously.
Under Public Comment, Selectmen Bob Ebersole mentioned the wording added to
the Charter Commissions final draft of the Cemetery section and apologized for the
lack of time given to some boards to digest it's meaning, and hopes to start work
again on the Charter Commission shortly, so to be ready for a Fall Town Meeting.
Charter Review Committee member Katey Adams was invited to this meeting to
discuss the review process and to give her thoughts on her Minority Report. The
Cemetery Commissioners discussed with her the issues we face and going forward
they can be incorporated in the next draft of the Charter. We were insured that we
would be more involved in this process than the recent Commission's final draft.
The recently updated Rules and Regulations have been uploaded to the Town's
website. A short discussion ensued over any more changes needed, and it was
decided the current version is fine for now.
Supt. Holman mentioned that he is working on the grant procedure for the
Handicap Access Ramp at the Niche Wall at North Cemetery.
Memorial Day plans were discussed concerning a schedule to complete the burials
from this past Winter and to make sure the grounds are in good shape for this
years Memorial Day holiday. The prisoners from the Worcester Count Sheriff's
office may be of help in this regard. Discussion will be had again at our May
meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Lastly a letter of appreciation was received from Peg Moses, commending Supt.
Holman for his efforts on behalf of their family after a recent burial.
With no further items on the agenda, a motion was made by Comm. Mendoza to
adjourn, seconded by Comm. Tyler, and with no further discussion the meeting was
adjourned at 9:45 pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully Submitted
William Tyler, Clerk
MAY 1: 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
