===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
William Tyler, Clerk
Cemetery Commission Minutes
October 11, 2018 Meeting
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room
Meeting was called to order at 7:05 pm by Chairman May. Other members
present were Vice-Chairman, Lorraine Mendoza, and Clerk, William Tyler.
A motion was made by Chairman May to change the order of the agenda, to
accommodate a member of the Charter Review Committee, who has a previous
engagement. Seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, voted unanimously.
First order of business was re-organization of the Commission. The following
nominations were put before the Commission. Lance May, Chair, Lorraine
Mendoza, Vice-Chair and William Tyler, Clerk, with no further discussion, it was
voted to accept the nominations as presented unanimously.
Minutes from the September 13" were read and upon a motion by Chair May,
seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, the minutes were accepted unanimously.
Steve Archambault from the Charter Review Committee was present to give the
Commission an update on the progress of the committee to this point. He
informed the Commission that the Committee meets the second and fourth
Wednesdays of every month. Dates to include: 10/24, 11/7, 12/12 and possibly
12/26. He suggested that we formulate what changes we would want and to
schedule a meeting with the Charter Committee.
The Holman St. Cemetery building is awaiting demolition, pending a plan to
remove the old gravestones that are scattered around the building. It was
decided to get a price from M&M Services for the use of a backhoe and operator,
since the DPW Director cannot commit to giving the Supt. any help in this
process. Also, upon a motion by Commissioner Tyler, seconded by Vice-Chair
Mendoza, to purchase a used 8x20 storage container for the purpose of storing
whatever useful tools and other items that remain in the building before
demolition. It was voted unanimously to purchase this container.
Cemetery rates were discussed and the possibility of increasing the Niche Wall
price to $1400.00 was discussed. It was taken under advisement to be further
discussed at a future meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Notification was received of a private donation in memory of George Reichart, a
former Cemetery Commissioner. His son wishes to donate a sum of money for
the purchase of signs showing Rules and Regulations for both Cemeteries. It
was advised that he send a letter stating his wishes and then we could establish
a special account in his name that could be drawn on to fulfill his wishes.
Commissioner Tyler is in the process of contacting LUK in Fitchburg for
assistance in obtaining Summer help next year for the Supt. He will report on
this at the next meeting.
Next meeting date: November 29, 2018 @ 7:00 pm
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made by Chair
May to adjourn, seconded by Comm. Mendoza. Meeting was adjourned at 9:05
pm.
Respectfully submitted
William Tyler, Clerk
