===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 10, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA   
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 PM by Commissioner Chairman, Tyler, other members present 
were Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, 
Cemetery Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from September 26, 2019 meeting.  Upon a motion by Chairman, Tyler – to accept 
the minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
Chairman, Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence from anyone.  
Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating, “Nothing at this time.” 
 
Chairman, Tyler asked that the Cemetery Commission review the Chapter 310 – Rules and Regulations.  
Upon reviewing the material, Chairman Tyler suggested that we add the comments into the 
documentation, but to review the final draft at our next Cemetery Commission Meeting on November 
14, 2019.  This was approved unanimously. 
 
Chairman, Tyler stated that the students from Monty Tech – Phase 1 was complete.  The building will 
need a sealant/paint to be applied to the cinder blocks.  Chairman, Tyler and Todd Holman, 
Superintendent did a great job adding the sealant/paint to the cinder blocks on the cemetery building.  
The next phase is for the trusses to be placed on top of the building and Monty Tech students to come 
back to finish this next phase.  Mark Flagg has generously offered to operate his crane for no cost to put 
these trusses into place. Todd Holman, Superintendent has assured everyone that if the trusses had to 
be stored outside in the winter, due to conflict with Monty Tech, then they would be stacked on pallets, 
covered with heavy tarps.  This is not our first choice with the trusses.  Chairman, Tyler and Nancy 
Foss-Yasko, Clerk are not thrilled about having these trusses not put into place when they are 
delivered, but are relying on the professionals regarding this matter. 
 
Chairman, Tyler, Vice-Chair, Mendoza, and Clerk, Nancy Foss Yasko – attended the Opening Meeting 
Law, Conflict of Interest Law & Public Records Law Seminar.  This seminar lasted for 2 hours, with a 
62 page presentation that was presented by Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC on October 3, 2019.   
 
Further discussions - Chairman, Tyler will be reaching out to Jack Rodriquenz, Director of DPW – 
regarding summer help for Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent and what is needed going forward 
for the FY21 Budget. 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Chairman, Tyler spoke about the ADA Grant proposal that will be submitted, and the next steps with 
creating a Capital Plan for redesign of the parking area at Columbarium.   
 
Vouchers were signed by the Cemetery Commission Committee – to pay for McAllister Concrete and 
Maki Lumber.  Motion to pay was approved unanimously. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman, Tyler, 
seconded by Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 8:00 PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  