===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, April 11, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA   
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM by Chairman Tyler, other members present were Lorraine 
Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was the Department of Public 
Works, Director - Jack Rodriquenz, and Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from meetings of March 7th and March 21st, 2019.  Upon a motion by Chairman 
Tyler – to accept the minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved 
unanimously. 
 
Approve and sign voucher for Arrow (out-house) at the North Cemetery - $1,100.00.  Upon a motion by 
Chairman Tyler – to accept this voucher as stated, seconded by Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk, voucher was 
approved unanimously.  
 
Commissioner Chairman Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence 
from anyone.  Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating, “George D. Reichard Family 
requesting the granite signs to be completed in both the South and North Cemeteries.” 
 
Cemetery Commissioners reviewed signage and came up with the following information: 
 
The North Cemetery will read:  First Burial 1770 – Donated by the Reichard Family – in honor of 
George D. Reichard, Former Cemetery Commissioner. 
 
The South Cemetery will read:  First Burial 1728 – Donated by the Reichard Family – in honor of 
George D. Reichard, Former Cemetery Commissioner. 
 
Below the signage will read: 
 
• Dogs are allowed with following rules: 
o Dogs will not be admitted into the Cemetery unless leased. 
o Dogs waste must be picked up and disposed into trash barrels. 
• All trash picked up and disposed into trash barrels. 
• No Alcohol Allowed. 
• No artificial flowers or plants allowed. 
• Nothing on, around or planted at flush makers – only at head stones. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
• No shrubbery or trees may be planted in the Cemetery without the express approval of the 
Cemetery Commission or Superintendent.  The Commission further reserves the right to 
remove trees, shrubs, or any other object that is considers injurious to the functioning or 
appearance of the Cemetery. 
• Automobiles must be driven carefully in the cemetery, while abiding to right of way, and do not 
enter signage. 
• Cemetery Hours – From Dawn until Dusk Only. 
• Full Rules and Regulations available on website. 
• The Cemetery Department maintains on online mapping system for both Cemeteries at 
http://www.map.ramaker.com/ecims/.  
 
Discussion with Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director – concerning burial policy and procedures.  This 
included an in- depth conversation regarding the possibility of two to three full burials that will occur at 
the same day/time in both the South and North Cemeteries.  
 
Key thoughts: 
 
1. How burials should go going forward. 
2. Have grave site dug at least one to two days before the funeral. 
3. DPW assistance when Todd cannot be at the two cemeteries at the same time. 
a. Jack Rodriquenz – offered his presence if needed in the near future.  Duties may include: 
securing the check and burial certificate. 
b. Bill Tyler – offered his presence if needed in the near future. 
4. Making sure that a representative is present during the funeral and closing the grave site 
afterwards. 
5. Funeral Directors on-site to help with moving the casket to the grave site. 
 
Key discussion on future plans of maintenance/assistance that needs to fall under the DPW 
maintenance budget.  This includes the following: 
 
1. The 150 year old hedges desperately need to be reshaped and trimmed professionally – South 
and North Cemeteries.  
a. Jack Rodriquenz has graciously agreed to research, and speak directly with Lakeview 
Nurseries – May timeframe.  
b. What the next steps are needed going forward with making the hedges look healthy 
again. 
 
2. Review the LUK Program – assistance for Cemetery Superintendent, Todd Holman. 
a. How many hours are needed from June – September, 2019? 
b. What duties are needed to allow Cemetery Superintendent, Todd Holman to do his 
other tasks with both the South and North Cemeteries? 
c. Other towns have at least one other person working the summer months with Cemetery 
Superintendents.  
 
Further discussions regarding Capital Planning and how the Cemetery Commission can proceed.  Jack 
Rodriquenz has generously offered to help in the preparation going forward with the Capital 
Committee.   
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman, Tyler, 
seconded by Commissioner Foss Yasko.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 9:00 
PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  