===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, May 09, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA   
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 PM by  Chairman Tyler, other members present were Lorraine 
Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, Cemetery 
Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from April 11, 2019 meeting.  There was a typo regarding the South Cemetery – 
First Burial should read: 1728 not 1778.  Upon a motion by Chairman Tyler – to accept the minutes as 
written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
Commissioner Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence from anyone.  
Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating, “no.” 
 
Commissioner Tyler explained the meeting that took place with Monty Tech – regarding updates on 
the upcoming Cemetery Building Phases.  Both Chairman, Tyler and Todd Holman, Cemetery 
Superintendent – met with Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Services; Dick Demers, Mason 
Instructor, and Jim Brooks, Carpenter Instructor.  Monty Tech is very excited to work with the 
Cemetery Commission and Cemetery Superintendent again. 
 
Commissioner Tyler stated that Phase I will begin in September, 2019 – masonry work.  Phase II will 
begin sometime in March, 2020 – carpenter work.  The Cemetery Building should be completed by the 
end of June, 2020.  Commissioner Tyler will now apply for the building permit, as this could take up to 
6 months to complete.   
 
Commissioner Nancy Foss Yasko will reach out to Ramaker for an update with the upcoming upgrade – 
CIMS Cloud.  Commissioner Chairman, Tyler reached out to the Lunenburg Memorial Fund, regarding 
having them donate for the plaque for Late Commissioner Lance May.  Unfortunately, Chairman Tyler 
was turned down, as the committee has dissolved.  Chairman, Tyler will require into the Lunenburg 
Alumni Association. 
 
Further discussions were finalized with the Rules and Regulations for the metal signs in both the North 
and South Cemeteries.  Chairman, Tyler reported that the ATM Article was passed for $35,000.00 – Q1 
– FY20.  Chairman Tyler will be reaching out to Jack Rodriquenz, Director of DPW – regarding 
summer help for Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent. 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
Cemetery Superintendent, Todd Holman spoke about Memorial Day Plans and having the Worcester 
County Sheriff Department – prisoner program help complete the task of weed whacking, picking up 
fallen branches, and debris around gravestones in both the North and South Cemeteries. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman Tyler, 
seconded by Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 8:00 
PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  