===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 26, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA   
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 PM by Commissioner Chairman, Tyler, other members present 
were Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, 
Cemetery Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from August 08, 2019 meeting.  Upon a motion by Chairman, Tyler – to accept the 
minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
Chairman, Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence from anyone.  
Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating, “No,” but wanted to bring up a complaint 
regarding Louise Morin.  Louise has distributed white rocks and a plant in front of the gravestone, 
which is a violation of the rules and regulations at the cemetery.  Todd has requested that the Cemetery 
Commission send a certified letter to the home address at:  74 Forest Hill Road, Fitchburg, MA  01420.  
Unfortunately, previously the Cemetery Commission decided to stop sending certified letters, as no one 
ever responds.  Under our rules and regulations, it is acceptable to remove the rocks from this grave 
site, by the Superintendent – Todd Holman.  A request was made to call the person directly, which was 
done by Chairman, Tyler.  However, in the future, the rules and regulations have been posted in both 
cemeteries – therefore, no calls or certified letters will be sent going forward. 
 
Chairman, Tyler asked that the Cemetery Commission review the Chapter 310 – Rules and Regulations.  
Upon reviewing the material, Chairman Tyler suggested that we add the comments into the 
documentation, but to review the final draft at our next Cemetery Commission Meeting on October 10, 
2019.  This was approved unanimously. 
 
Chairman, Tyler stated that the students from Monty Tech – Phase 1 was complete.  The building will 
need a sealant/paint to be applied to the cinder blocks.  There will be a painting party in the next few 
weeks if anyone is interested.  Chairman, Tyler and Todd Holman, Superintendent spoke about the next 
phases of this project, but were not happy that the trusses might have to sit outside on the ground for 
the winter months.  The next phase/timeframe of this project cannot be determined at this time.  This is 
due to another project that the students at Monty Tech are trying to finish before our project can start.  
The trusses need to be ordered at least four weeks in advance, and delivered before the next Phase can 
begin.  Todd Holman, Superintendent has assured everyone that if they are stacked on pallets, and 
covered well, there should not be any issues with the trusses.  Chairman, Tyler and Nancy Foss-Yasko, 
Clerk are not thrilled about having these trusses not put into place when they are delivered, but are 
relying on the professionals regarding this matter. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
Further discussions - Chairman, Tyler will be reaching out to Jack Rodriquenz, Director of DPW – 
regarding summer help for Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent and what is needed going forward 
for the FY21 Budget. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman, Tyler, 
seconded by Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 8:30 PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  