===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss - Yasko, Clerk 
 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday February 14, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building 
520 Chase Rd. Lunenburg, Ma. 
7:00 PM 
                                                   
 
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM by Chairman Tyler, other members present were Lorraine 
Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss-Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, Cemetery 
Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from meetings of  January 10th and January 22nd, 2019.  Upon a motion by Chairman 
Tyler – to accept the minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved 
unanimously.  
 
Commissioner Chairman Tyler, and Vice-Chair Mendoza wanted to welcome Nancy Foss-Yasko – as the 
newest member on the Cemetery Commission Committee.  Nancy was honored to be present and be 
part of  this committee. 
 
Old Business: 
 
Discussion on Cemetery building and what the next steps are.  Commissioner Foss-Yasko asked the 
question why there were not two or three bids proposed to the Cemetery Commission?  Chairman Tyler 
explained that he thought multiple building material quotes were not necessary if  it was under $10,000 
or less.  How do you know if  you have the best deal unless you have something to compare it with?  
Task was given to Chairman Tyler to meet with Lunenburg Town Manager – Heather Lemieux 
regarding the question to Best Practices with bids/proposals.  
 
Discussion on Charter Review Committee- Chairman Tyler is recommending that we pull the submitted 
change to the Charter from the next Charter Review meeting.  Chairman Tyler viewed this deed with 
the Town Counsel, and the land/building belongs to the Cemetery Commission.  The DPW has no 
interest in this building, as this building is intended to store items that will only be used by the 
North/South Cemeteries and Todd Holman, Superintendent. 
 
Brief  discussion on Cemetery Commission Financial Sheet and what is considered as DPW’s 
responsibility regarding maintenance at North/South and Fish Street Cemeteries. 
 
Motion was made to remove submitted change to Charter Review Committee, regarding Town Manager 
control over Cemetery Building.  Vice-Chair Mendoza made motion, and Commissioner Foss-Yasko 
seconded the motion, and with no further discussion the motion passed unanimously. 

===PAGE 2===
 
Superintendent Holman, requested that each Commissioner read the information provided that will go 
into the Lunenburg Town Report.  Commissioners thanked Superintendent Holman for writing this 
article.  Brief  discussions on burials and cremations – there have been 18 full burials and 18 cremations 
at this time.   
 
New Business: 
 
Brief  discussion on 5 year plan and what are some of  the bigger projects that need to be accomplished 
going forward? 
 
Chairman, Tyler explained that Caucus is on March 11, 2019.  Commissioner Foss-Yasko will need to be 
voted on, so that she may be placed on the Town’s ballot in May. 
 
Discussion on the upgrade proposal from Ramaker & Associates – this includes the yearly expense also. 
Superintendent Holman believes that notes from past conversation, this charge will be split between IT 
and the Cemetery Commission.  Chairman Tyler believes that there needs to be clarification on this 
proposal.  Commissioner Foss-Yasko requested that IT should be thinking of  consolidating the town 
with storing important documents to the cloud.  Chairman Tyler and Vice-Chairman, Mendoza all 
agreed that a discussion with IT was needed regarding this matter before moving forward with the 
upgrade. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman, Tyler, 
seconded by Commissioner Foss-Yasko.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 9:00 PM. 
 
Next meeting will take place on March 7, 2019. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  
 