===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman                                                                     Todd Holman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman                                                 Superintendent 
Nancy Foss - Yasko, Clerk 
 
 
Cemetery Commission Minutes 
February 13, 2020 Meeting 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, Ma 
 
The meeting was called to order by Chairman Tyler at 6:30 PM with 
Commissioner Mendoza present and Commissioner Foss-Yasko participating 
remotely by telephone.  
 
There was no public comment or correspondence to report. 
 
The minutes from the January 16, 2020 meeting were reviewed and a motion was 
made to accept the minutes as written and duly seconded. By roll call vote it was 
voted unanimously to accept the minutes. 
 
In old business, the draft of the letter concerning the Winter burial policy was 
reviewed and upon a motion to approve said letter , that was duly seconded, it 
was approved unanimously by roll call vote to approve the letter . It was decided 
to send a copy to the Town Manager , Chairman of the Board of Selectmen, DPW 
Director , and Selectman Jeffries who had initially inquired about the policy. Also 
discussed was an update on the ATM warrant submission, and after a 
discussion, it was motioned that the Commission would not submit a warrant 
article for this year’s ATM for an appropriation. After being duly seconded it was 
voted unanimously by roll call vote. The Town Report submission for 2019 is 
complete and will be sent to Elaine Peterson. 
 
In new business, discussion was had about the addition of the 
Columbarium/Niche wall to the Ramaker software. After discussing the details of 
what is needed by Ramaker to go forward with this, a motion was made to spend 
$560.00 to make this addition. After being duly seconded, it was voted 
unanimously by roll call vote to proceed. Chair Tyler will contact Ramaker about 
the details and if there will be an increase in the yearly maintenance fee because 
of the addition of the Columbarium to the website. It was announced that Phase 
2 of the garage/ storage facility will commence on March 2, 2020, weather 
permitting, by the students from Monty Tech’s carpentry class. Superintendent 

===PAGE 2===
Holman said he would contact Mark Flagg, who has graciously agreed to donate 
a crane and operator to place the L VL and trusses on the building.  
 
The Superintendent reported that he is still working on updating and recording 
burial information for 2019 to our new software and is progressing well.    
 
With no further items before the Commission, it was motioned to adjourn, 
seconded, and voted by roll call to adjourn at 7:45 PM. 
 
Tentative date for next meeting is March 12, 2020. 
 
Respectfully submitted 
William Tyler , Chairman  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 