===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss - Yasko, Clerk 
 
Cemetery Commission Minutes 
February 18, 2021 Meeting 
Via Zoom 
  
The meeting was called to order at 4:00 pm by Chairman Tyler . Commissioners 
Yasko and Mendoza present along with DPW Director Oliva. 
 
There was no public comment. 
 
First order of business was the discussion and vote on the Commission’s FY22 
appropriation at this years Town Meeting. Chairman Tyler explained our annual 
expenses are relatively the same, with the only exception being the improvement 
to the Goodrich family burial yard at the corner of Fish and Lincoln streets and 
the cost of the fieldstones to continue the wall on two sides to enclose the yard. 
Labor is being donated by Richard McGrath, along with two granite posts and an 
iron gate. The cost of these stones is approximately $5500.00. Chairman Tyler 
recommended appropriating the sum of $15,000.00 to fund our operating costs 
for FY22. A motion was made by Commissioner Yasko to appropriate the sum of 
$15,000.00 from the Sale of Lots account at this Spring’s ATM. It was duly 
seconded by Commissioner Mendoza, and a roll call vote was unanimous to 
proceed with the warrant article for that amount. 
 
A brief discussion ensued on the progress at the building site, and all agreed 
that Monty Tech is doing a great job, considering the weather and the time they 
have actually been there. 
 
The North Cemetery parking lot expansion was discussed, and the conceptual 
plans were reviewed. DPW Director Oliva updated the Commission on the 
process going forward with the bidding of the job. Once the final plan is 
complete and a cost estimate is provided, the project will go out to bid. This 
project, because of the funding source, needs to be completed by the end of the 
fiscal year . The Commissioners all agreed that the plan looks fine and gave 
Director Oliva the approval to go ahead with final plans. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn, 
duly seconded and by roll call vote was voted to adjourn at 4:50 pm. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, William Tyler , Chairman 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 