===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
 
William Tyler, Chairman 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairman 
David Dorren, Clerk 
 
 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday June 24, 2021 – 3:30pm 
Conference Room DPW Bldg. 
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 3:30pm by Chairman Tyler.  Present were 
Commissioners Yasko, Dorren and DPW Director Oliva. 
 
No one was present from the public  
 
 
Meeting started with Chairman Tyler asking DPW Director Oliva regarding the sidewalk 
and parking lot at the North Cemetery.  DPW Director Oliva stated that the paving 
should be done by mid of next week then the seeding will be done.   
 
Discussions were also centered on redoing the grass, fertilizer and lime at both North 
and South Cemeteries.  DPW Director Oliva stated he received a quote from Mark Burch 
from Lakeview Nursery for $3200 for both cemeteries for each of 3 treatments.   
Commissioner Yasko asked about chemicals hurting the animals while process was being 
accomplished.  DPW Director Oliva suggested we put notices out that animals will have 
to stay out of the Cemeteries for 2 weeks. 
 
 
Chairman Tyler asking DPW Oliva if any positions have been filled yet at the cemetery.  
Oliva stated he received 2 applications and resume’s and is in the process of setting up 
interviews. 
 
 
Next the budget was discussed.  Chairman Tyler mentioned receiving $10,000 
maintenance budget from Town Meeting of which $2500 was used for fuel and $7500 is 
left for outsourced maintenance.   
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
William Tyler, Chairman 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairman 
David Dorren, Clerk 
 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday June 24, 2021 – 3:30pm 
Conference Room DPW Bldg. 
 
                                                                                                                 Page 2 
 
Chairman Tyler said he would like to get the Goodrich Cemetery project done this year 
before any other projects are done.  The Goodrich Cemetery has to have the stumps 
ground up, loam put down along with seed.  DPW Director Oliva said he would get on 
quote on what needs to be done at the Goodrich Cemetery.  
 
Chairman Tyler talked about cleaning up the Holman Street Garage.  Priming and 
painting the building and cleaning up the front of the yard, removing the Headstones.  
The Commission is looking to holding a public ceremony on Sept. 11 or 18th for 
Dedication.  DPW Director Oliva stated he would see about having the 2 positions filled 
by then and the front cleaned.   
 
Minutes of the May 20, 2021 board meeting were read and approved by Commissioners 
Yasko, Dorren and Chairman Tyler.  
 
 
 
In new business, Chairman Tyler brought up about the Security at the North 
Cemetery. Commissioner Dorren to relay the information on Signage and Cameras to 
Chairman Tyler and Commissioner Yasko, before our next Board Meeting.  
 
 
Finally, the Vouchers were voted on, signed and approved by Chairman Tyler, 
Commissioners Yasko and Dorren.  Vouchers were for: 
 
Ramaker & Associates $800 for Cloud Hosting and $1200 for Burial Search Hosting 
R.A. Powell Construction for $5905.15 improvement to the North Cemetery 
The Lunenburg Ledger for $30.00 
Casella Waste Systems for $63.74 for dumpster emptying 
 
 
Motion was made to adjourn the meeting and was seconded and affirmed by roll call 
vote.  Meeting was adjourned at 5:14pm  
 
Next Meeting Scheduled for August 19th, 2021 at 3:30pm at the DPW Conference Room 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
David Dorren, Clerk 