===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler, Chairman 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairman 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Tuesday, December 7, 2021- 6:30 pm 
Via Zoom 
 
 
In attendance:  Chairman Tyler and Commissioners Yasko and Dorren.  Absent 
was DPW Director Oliva. 
 
Chairman Tyler presented the commission on the DPW’s update.  Both the North 
and South Cemeteries have been cleaned up for the Winter.  The Seasonal help 
that worked with Superintendent Todd are done for this year. 
 
Commissioner Dorren suggested the Cemetery Commission send an email / letter 
to DPW Rob Oliva regarding the great work he and his department have done for 
the Cemeteries this year.  Motion to approve 3-0 
 
Minutes from October 20, 2021 were read. Motion to accept minutes approved 3-0 
 
Chairman Tyler opened the topic of Burial Rates and after looking over the 
Commissions rates from surrounding towns made a motion to not increase the 
rates for Lunenburg.  Commissioner Yasko stated that with Covid getting worse 
and people struggling, she also suggested to hold off.  Commissioner Dorren 
agreed.  Motion to not to raise Burial Rates approved 3-0. 
 
Chairman Tyler discussed the planting of flowers at the entrance of the North and 
South Cemeteries in year 2022.  New Flowers to be planted in the Spring and the 
Fall of 2022 by Helen Balcom.  Helen’s invoice will be for $300 for watering in the 
Spring and $275 for watering in the Fall, totaling $575 for the year.  The invoice 
for the flowers for both the Spring and the Fall will come from Dicks Farm Stand, 
which is separate from Helen’s invoice.  Motion to accept 3-0.  Commissioner 
Dorren to convey approval to Helen Balcom and work arrangements out with her 
for the Spring and Fall.  

===PAGE 2===
 
                                                                                     Commission’s Minutes 
                    Page 2 
 
 
Commissioner Tyler recommended the Rainmaker update be postponed till the 
next meeting.  Motioned carried 3-0 
 
 
The Commission discussed to Buy Back lots 778-1 and 778-2 at the North 
Cemetery near the parking lot.  Current owner of the lots no longer in Lunenburg.  
Current owner paid $350 for the lots but there were Perpetual Costs of $100 so 
the buyback would be for $250.  Motion to buy back approved by vote 3-0 
 
 
Request was made by Chairman Tyler to purchase 2 cameras, 1 for the North 
Cemetery and 1 for the South Cemetery.  DPW Superintendent reported a 
mattress and rubbish was left at the South Cemetery.  Police were called.  The 
camera’s will be motion activated and battery operated.  Motion was made to 
approve the cameras by vote of 3-0 
 
 
Comment made to post on Facebook and other social media the Cemetery 
Regulations, Information and No Dumping Policies.  Motion accepted 3-0. 
 
 
Motion to adjourn at 7:25pm Accepted 3-0 
 
Next meeting TBD 