===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chairperson
David Dorren, Vice-Chairperson and Clerk
Open Vacancy
Minutes
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Meeting
Thursday, August 10, 2023
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room
1023 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA
9:00AM - 11:30AM
Meeting was called to order at 9:05AM by Vice-Chairperson, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other members present
were David Dorren, Clerk. Also present was Bill Bernard, DP W Director.
Vice-Chairperson, Nancy Foss-Yasko, asked if there was any Public Comment? There was none.
First on the Agenda was to accept a motion on Stan Barney's letter to the Select Board stating that the
Cemetery Commission is saddened to have an open vacancy on the Cemetery Commission. Stan was
very dear to the Town and Cemetery Commission, and will be sadly missed. Motion accepted
unanimously.
Second on the Agenda was to accept a motion with an anonymous donation/gift to the Cemetery
Commission for a granite bench to be placed by the grave site of Stan Barney - for Susie and Family to
sit and reflect. This bench will later be engraved and paid by the Cemetery Commission - once the
Barney Family has time to process their loss. Stan had many years prior with the Cemetery Commission,
and was newly appointed a few months ago. Motion to accepted unanimously.
Third on the Agenda was to accept a motion to re-organize the Cemetery Commission with Nancy Foss-
Yasko, voted in as Chairperson, and David Dorren voted in as Vice-Chairperson & Clerk. Motion
accepted unanimously.
Fourth on the Agenda was to accept a motion of the New Cemetery Commission Policies to take effect
immediately. Motion accepted unanimously. Unfortunately, the DPW Director - Bill Bernard does
not/will not recognize these policies until he is told to do so by the Town's Counsel - Adam Costa, Esq.
Chairperson, Nancy Foss-Yasko, asked if there was any updates from the DPW Director - Bill Bernard.
Discussion was presented regarding the hedges and the outcome from the damage done by the Beaulac
Brothers, and Cemetery Superintendent. Permission was given by the DPW Director - Bill Bernard to
cut the hedges down, but no one reached out or even thought of involving the Cemetery Commission with
that decision. The Cemetery Commission is still very upset that we were not informed that this project
was being started; and that no other landscaping company was called in to give another opinion or
1 Page
===PAGE 2===
Discussions were made about Dillis and Roy Land Surveying Proposal.
Bill explained the process and
what was going to happened. The Cemetery Commission needed to review the open field and discuss
what was going to and not going to happen to the trees. We decided before we adjourned the meeting, we
would move the meeting to the North Cemetery to review the plot plans for both full burial's, cremations,
tree removal, and road proposals etc.
Discussions regarding Leominster Monument and future washing of gravestones. Chairperson, Nancy
Foss-Yasko stated that she would look into the future cost of keeping the historical gravestones looking
new. What would the cost look like? Bill was in agreement to find out future pricing.
Brief discussion on the Rainmaker Software Program that the Cemetery Superintendent - Todd Holman
utilizes. The DPW Director - Bill Barnard asked a few questions regarding the process. A more in-dept
discussion needs to be take place at our next Cemetery Commission Meeting. The most important issue
is uniformity with all the paperwork/documentation that has to be uploaded into the software program.
An audit trail needs to be established in the very near future. More discussions on what that might look
like needs to be addressed.
Minutes were read from the meeting of June 15, 2023. Upon a motion by Chairperson, Nancy Foss-
Yasko - to accept the minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chairperson and Clerk, David Dorren,
minutes were approved unanimously.
With further on-site business at North Cemetery, Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko, made a motion to
continue the Cemetery Commission Meeting at the North Cemetery in the new field section area;
seconded by the Vice-Chairperson and Clerk, David Dorren. Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chair
and Clerk David Dorren, and DPW Director - Bill Bernard reconvened at the North Cemetery open field.
First problem, was the trees. The Cemetery Superintendent wanted to remove most trees in the open
field. Leaving a selective few close to the stonewall. This was unacceptable to the Cemetery
Commission, who had recently had Mark Flagg, Professional Tree Arborist - walk through the area and
discuss in his professional opinion; which trees needed to come down/removed. There were a total of
three trees that were dead, and did not belong. One tree needs to be trimmed slightly from the bottom up.
A few branches, that need to be cut off carefully. One tree in the open area is going to have a rock wall
installed, which will surround and protect the tree. This allowing some fill to be put down in the area
needed. The area where the cremation's will be located - needs to be cleaned up from previous grass
cuttings that have been dumped by the Cemetery Superintendent, and will be reviewed by the
Conservation Commission. Unfortunately, another area must be selected for grass cuttings in the future.
(Key note, the Town of Lunenburg has an opening right now for hiring a Conversation Agent, which the
Town Manager, Heather Lemieux is working on a plan to hire someone soon.) The DPW Director - Bill
Bernard will contact the Cemetery Commission; once the individual has been hired to review the open
area and make sure that the wetlands behind this area is protected.
2 Page
===PAGE 3===
would mean in that open field, the gravestones would be racing west with the sire names tacing that way.
The Cemetery Commission will review and go over the plans face-to-face with Dillis and Roy, Cemetery
Superintendent - Todd Holman, and DPW Director - Bill Bernard. Nothing will be done until the
Cemetery Commission gives prior approval and motion to go forward with the project plans, once they
are complete. Future projects will need to be approved and discussed with the Cemetery Commission
before a project can begin.
The Cemetery Commission is looking forward in working closely together with the DPW Director - Bill
Bernard and Cemetery Superintendent - Todd Holman.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chairperson, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Vice-Chairperson and
Clerk, David Dorren. With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 12:15PM.
Next meeting will take place on August 24, 2023.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chairperson
David Dorren, Vice-Chairperson and Clerk
Electronic Signatures
3 Page
