===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler, Chairperson 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairperson 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Friday, March 16, 2023 
 
Meeting was called to order at 1:08pm.  In attendance was Chairman Bill Tyler, Vice 
Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko, Clerk David Dorren and DPW Director Bill Bernard 
 
Chairman Tyler asked the commission to review the minutes of January 10 & February 
14, 2023 meetings.  David Dorren made a motion to accept the minutes of both January 
10 and February 14, 2023 meetings; Vice Chair Yasko seconded the motion.  Motion 
passed 3-0. 
 
Next on the agenda Chairman Tyler discussed the Annual  FY24 Budget.  Vice Chair 
Yasko suggested a change to the Flowers budget to $500 for the year.  The commission 
unanimously voted 3-0 to change the Flowers budget to $500.  The total for the whole 
budget therefore changed to $14,100.  Therefore we will be asking for $10,000 from the 
Sales Lots for the  FY24 fiscal year.  
 
Vice President Yasko discussed situation of dogs and one particular at the North 
Cemetery.  Dog was loose (not on the leash) and no owner in site.  Police were called.   
No action taken at this time.  Motion tabled till Vice President Yasko looks into this more 
with the Police Dept. and the Lunenburg Animal Control Officer. 
 
Chairman Tyler brought up about the Niche wall at the North Cemetery and how the 
Plaques should be inscribed.  Chairman Tyler brought up the Specifications developed on 
January 29, 2018. VP Yasko discussed how the situation is handled by the City of 
Fitchburg, Public Burial Grounds Division.  This was tabled until April meeting to contact 
Leominster Monument, since they did most of the Plaques on the Niche wall.  
 
A review of the Cemetery Rules and Regulations that were finalized in March was 
postponed till April so Bill Bernard can talk to the Town Attorneys on wording of 
Regulation. 
 
Motion to adjourned by VP Yasko at 2:22pm. Chairman Tyler 2nd the motion. Passed 3-0. 
Next meeting scheduled for Thursday April 27, 2023 at 2pm 
 
Respectfully submitted 
David Dorren, Clerk  
