===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, March 14, 2024 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.  Is there anyone today that wishes to record this meeting with their own 
devices?
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  
Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to give your Public Comment.
9:05 AM – Call to Order – by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other members present were David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk. Bill 
Bernard, DPW Director; Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent were not present.  Public attendance were John Bowen, Jeanmarie 
Price, John Bowen, Jr., Dave Rogers, Dave Passios and Michael Clark.
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko asked that everyone stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. John Bowen and Dave Passios announced to 
the Commission that they were videoing today’s meeting.  
The Chair announced that we need to go out of order today, as Michael Clark, potential Cemetery Commission Candidate; needs to leave 
early for another business meeting.  Micheal is looking to be voted on today by the Cemetery Commission to be the third participant. 
Questions were asked from the Cemetery Commission regarding Michael’s involvement in other committee’s and experience throughout 
his work and volunteering history. Michael presented himself with knowledge, experience and an understanding of Town Policies and 
Producers. Several key areas of experiences include:  Lunenburg School Committee; School Health Advisory; Boy Scout Adult Leader 
(12 years); Lead for the Boy Scout Projects within Lunenburg Cemeteries and other Town Projects; and 40 years experience as an 
Engineer in the Business Sector. 
Both the Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko and Vice-Chair, David Dorren made a motion to vote to have Michael Clark as the newest 
Cemetery Commissioner.  Motion passed 2 to 0. 
Meeting Minutes: February 22, 2024 – Motion passed 2 to 0.
Public Comment – Mr. Bowen presented many allegations throughout his three minutes of public comments.
Public Comment – Mr. Dave Rogers would like to request and schedule a time that he may come and discuss matters regarding the 
Cemetery Commission and DPW Director. Possible time-frame in the April Cemetery Commission Meeting.  Chair would like to have
what exactly Mr. Rogers would like to discuss for the topic on the future agenda.
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk

===PAGE 2===
DPW Director Updates and Discussions – The DPW Director, Bill Bernard, is unable to attend, and asked that the Chair, Nancy 
Foss-Yasko to read through his letter submitted to the Cemetery Commission. Vehicles are now open for both cemeteries to enter. 
Part-time seasonal workers have been advertised – three participants have come forward for interviews. DPW Maintenance Plan will 
be provided by March 15th plan that identifies how the cemetery will be provided and cared for in 2024. Ramaker (CIMS) database for
employee password only.  Cemetery Superintendent only updates Ramaker in the winter months and has updated this database from 
the past year. From hired date of June 22, 2015 to current date, The DPW Director, Bill Bernard cannot confirm from January 1, 2010 
to June 21, 2015 if the data is up to date or not. 
Cemetery Commission Updates and Discussions – Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, spoke to when Ramaker was purchased by the 
Cemetery Commission. The desktop software was purchased on May 20, 2010.  This desktop version was signed off by Cemetery 
Commissioner, Charles Deming.  The last update was purchased as an upgrade – cloud based product. This was signed on April 12, 
2019; which Cemetery Commissioner, Bill Tyler had signed off on. It made us more protected, and kept us up-to-date with Cemetery 
Software.  The previous Cemetery Commissioner Chairperson’s have always had the password.  Access to this data is not part of the 
Cemetery Commissions day to day duties, however, ad hoc access on an as needed basis are required from time to time.  This will be 
tabled and brought to a higher level (Heather) regarding this matter.  The Vice-Chair Dave Dorren is very concerned about this matter,
and agrees on getting the Town Manager involved and or Select Board to help move forward in this process.  The Cemetery 
Commission has always had that password up until now.  Why when this Chair is in place, is this not allowed?
Mr. Bowen spoke out of session.  Dave Passio stated that this was a Point of Order regarding the outburst.  The Cemetery 
Commission is presently in its deliberations based on the agenda.  Under those conditions, there is no back and forth between the 
visitors in the public and Cemetery Commission.  I take exception on this interruption of this meeting – thank you. 
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko wants the Public to know that the DPW Director, Bill Bernard had sent the letter to read during our 
Cemetery Commission Meeting.  It is his choice that he could not make the meeting, because of his schedule.  We are going to 
deliberate what we need to deliberate.
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko was presented with information regarding money given back to resident parties that had previously 
purchased lots in the past.  No communication or discussions regarding this matter was ever given to the Cemetery Commission.  The 
Cemetery Commission has always had the procedure in place to vote and approve any money that is given back from the Sales of 
Lots.  The DPW did not follow the correct protocol, and therefore, submitted these vouchers to the Town without the proper signatures
from the Cemetery Commissioners.  This was an oversight by the DPW, Director, and I will inform the Cemetery Commission going 
forward. Dave Dorren, Vice-Chair stated that “our past minutes from our past Chair, voted and accepted any sale of lots that need to 
be refunded because of moving out of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts etc.  Why now with this DPW Director, and Chair has this
changed”?
1. Future Meeting Schedule
a. Thursday, April 07, 2024.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren.  With no further 
discussion, meeting was adjourned at 9:35 AM – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Clerk
Electronic Signatures