===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
         MEETING NOTICE
Thursday, May 16, 2024 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
AGENDA
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice.  Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person 
meeting.  Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the 
meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law.  
Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance 
accordingly.
Remote Participation – Join Zoom Meeting:  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353?omn=81474059825  – Meeting ID:  792 737 0353
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to 
give your Public Comment – Thank you…
9:00 AM – Call to Order
1. Public Comment
2. Review and Approve Minutes from March 25, 2024 meeting.
3. DPW Director Updates and Discussions.
4. Discuss Open Items/Upcoming Projects.
a. Next Steps for the 2024 Season – DPW Maintenance Plan.
b. Correspondence – Lunenburg Cemeteries.
c. Ramaker – New Features/Next Steps and insight of all open graves for three family members and six family members together in 
a row.  Some families are requesting a print out of all areas in the North Cemetery that are open for purchasing in a row. 
d. Request from a family at South Cemetery to include another gravestone to their three lots that were purchased.  Right now there 
is one gravestone there.  An additional one would need to added within the three lot section.  Outside the Rules and Regulations, 
but can be approved if the Cemetery Commission makes a motion and votes on this request.
e. Plan for flowers for both entrances at the North and South Cemetery needs to be discussed and voted on.
f. Illumination solar lights for both South and North Cemetery flag poles to be discussed and voted on.
g. Oldest section of gravestones washing and repair project phases discussion.
h. Grass/grubs damage within both cemeteries.  Past burials are not growing grass, which families are upset.
5. Future Meeting Schedule – Third Thursday of each month – June 13, 2024.
6. Adjourn
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair
Michael Clark, Clerk
