===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, June 20, 2024 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.  Is there anyone today that wishes to record this meeting with their own 
devices?
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  
Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to give your Public Comment.
9:03 AM – Call to Order – The Cemetery Commission Meeting was called to order at 9:03 AM.  In attendance was Nancy Foss-
Yasko, Chair, David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Michael Clark, Clerk.  Public attendance:  David Rogers 
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko asked that everyone to rise for the Pledge of Allegiance.
Also present arriving later at the meeting, was Town Manager Heather R. Lemieux.
No Recording by the Audience.
Chair Nancy Foss-Yasko recognized that it is National Police Week, and thanked them for their service in the community.  The Open 
Meeting Law notice posted on the agenda was then read.
Vice-Chair Dorren made a motion to approved the minutes of May 16, 2024.  Motion approved 3-0.
The Commission Reviewed DPW Directors report
- Burials & Cremations & Seasonal Mowing statistics.
Public Comments:  David Rogers mentioned that he was frustrated with the mowing of the cemeteries.  Wanted to know what was being
done to make sure the cemeteries were taken care of consistently.
Mr. David Passios echoed Mr. Rogers comments stating that the Charter and By Laws are a total mess.  They reflect no improvements in 
policy on Parks and Cemeteries.
DWP Director Bill Bernard was absent from this meeting, and therefore; could not answer Mr. Rogers’ Comments.  Vice-Chair David 
Dorren – noted that we are not in charge of the cemeteries, it is the DPW.  Clerk Mike Clark – we create regulations, DPW runs to them.
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair
Michael Clark, Clerk

===PAGE 2===
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko discussed the Barthol C. Allen Trust Fund.  This was learned from the DPW Director Bill Bernard that 
there was a trust fund for cleaning gravestones from a particularly family, but no more information was available at this time.  Further 
research of the accounts will be requested.
Motion to approve oversize Headstone:  Chair Nancy Foss-Yasko mentioned that a family that owns four plots next to each other in the 
South Cemetery, asked to purchase one headstone for the four plots.  After discussion by the Cemetery Commission, the Commission 
approved 3-0 the family to have one headstone for the four plots.  The size of the headstone to be 4×1 feet.
Clerk Mike Clark – presented his robot mower survey.
Chair Nancy Foss-Yasko – discussed Ramaker, paperwork and completion – not until winter months.
Illumination of lights in North Cemetery – DPW director to quote running electricity into North & South Cemetery. Also, reviewing solar
lights.
Oldest section of Cemetery gravestones washing and repair.  Should be $22,000 revised to $38,500.
Grass/Grub damage discussed – A local lawn maintenance contractor provided a quote.
Clerk Mike Clark – recommended to use compost from Youngs Road.
Town Manager Heather Lemieux 
- Need to put funding in the budget to mow cemeteries to expectations.
Motion to Adjourn:  Vice-Chair David Dorren made the motion to adjourn at 10:56AM:  Clerk Mile Clark seconded the motion. 
Motion passed 3-0.
Next Cemetery Commission Meeting scheduled for July 25, 2024
Respectfully submitted
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission
 