===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
         
MEETING MINUTES
Tuesday, March 19, 2024 – 7:15 PM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Select Board Meeting
17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the 
LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting.
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice.  Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person 
meeting.  Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the 
meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law.  
Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance 
accordingly.
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely:  To 
Participate Remotely:  From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID:  909-174-0347 #  If 
you have not registered with Zoom, you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.  Note:  No participant ID is needed, just press
# when asked.  Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may use the “raise 
hand” feature to request to speak.
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to 
give your Public Comment – Thank you…
7:25 PM – Open Meeting – Joint Meeting with the Select Board – Joint Appointment of Cemetery Commission by the Cemetery Commission 
and Select Board to the vacancy with the term expire at the next annual election:  Michael Clark – 275 Cross Road, Lunenburg, MA 01462.
The Select Board Chair, Michael Ray Jeffery made a motion to vote on accepting the Cemetery Commission’s nominee – Michael Clark.  It was an 
anonymous vote of both the members of the Select Board and the Cemetery Commission present at the joint meeting.  Motion passed 7 to 0.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren.  With no further discussion, meeting was
adjourned at 7:40 PM – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Clerk
Electronic Signatures
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk
