===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, February 27, 2025 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
Attendees: Chair Nancy Foss Yasko
Vice-Chair David Doreen
Clerk Mike Clark
DPW Director Bill Bernard
This meeting was recorded and posted on Lunenburg Public Access. The meeting was held 
remote by Zoom – members of the Public.
(Viewing of the recorded meeting: see “Cemetery Commission February 27. 2025” on YouTube -
Lunenburg Public Access)
9:00 AM – Call to Order
1. Stand for Pledge of Allegiance. – all
Chair Nancy Foss Yasko read the open meeting law statement & noted the upload to the 
Lunenburg Public Access Channel of this recorded meeting.
2. Review and Approve Minutes from January 09, 2025 meeting.
Vice Chair David Dorren made a motion to approve the minutes of Jan 09, 2025 meeting, Chair 
Nancy Foss Yasko seconded, voted all in favor.
2. DPW Director Updates and Discussions by Bill Bernard including approved and or in 
progress projects.
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148Nancy Foss Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair 
              Mike Clark, Clerk 

===PAGE 2===
a. Roads closed due to the weather.
b. Nobody requested a burial and there are no bodies in the mausoleum.
c. Planning for seasonal workers, hoping last year’s workers come back.
d. Lights & concrete skirt at South Cemetery – no updates yet, Bill to check on, 
contractors in mind, under $10K – does not need to go out to bid.
3. Place Holder Articles – Discussion and vote on each item. Chair Nancy Foss Yasko spoke on 
business sense and best practices, along with account balances.  Sale of lots $94,394.66, 
Capital Fund $10,606.61. If we have enough in the fund, we will pull the article for $10K 
from the warrant. Keeping money in the Sale of Lots fund is a good idea as we are getting 
interest.
$10K transfer from the Sales of Lots Account – Chair Nancy Foss Yasko made the 
motion to pull the article from the warrant, Vice Chair David Dorren seconded, voted all 
in favor. 
$50K capital item for the North Cemetery Expansion Area – will come out of the Capital 
Planning budget. Parcel has been surveyed, Design Plans & construction to be done. 
DPW Director hope is the $50K covers all required work. Currently open lots are under 
100 between North & South cemeteries. DPW Director recommended now is the time to 
move forward on this project. Chair Nancy Foss Yasko made the motion that the capital 
plan will take out “X” amount of dollars to start the North Cemetery expansion, Vice 
Chair David Dorren seconded, voted all in favor.
$50K for cemetery road network repairs – The DPW Director submitted $225K for re-
paving of all roads in North Cemetery, patching and repair estimated at $50K, currently 
this is not on the latest Capital Plan list. Chair Nancy Foss Yasko has been told that this is
coming out of Capital Planning, but has not seen the latest list. Chair Nancy Foss Yasko 
made the motion that they will be going forward with road repairs, Clerk Mike Clark 
seconded, voted all in favor.
Chair Nancy Foss Yasko thanked the Capital Planning Committee for helping us out with 
our projects.
5. Future Meeting Schedule – March 27, 2025, 9:00 AM
6. Public Comment
Chair Nancy Foss Yasko thanked Assistant Town Manager Julie Belliveau & the town for the 
open meeting law presentation.
Vice Chair David Dorren – brought up the Fish Street cemetery, can we discuss on when this 
project can get going? DPW Director Bill Bernard has not heard anything recently from Richard 
McGrath and will research further.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Bowen – 162 highland street – concerns on Capital Planning & expenses of money
Requested a warrant article to exclude money.
Bowen spoke in excess of the allowed time despite repeated reminders from the Chair to 
cease.
Chair Nancy Foss Yasko clarified where her source of information on the Capital planning came 
from, the Town Manager.
Next meeting is scheduled for March 27, 2025
7. Adjourn: Vice Chair David Dorren made a motion to adjourn, Clerk Mike Clark seconded, all 
in favor.
Respectfully submitted,
Michael Clark, Clerk