===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Wednesday, November 19, 2025 – 6:00PM 
Lunenburg Public Library – Sudolnik Conference Room 
 
Attendance: 
Chair: Chair Mike Clark 
Vice-Chair: Dave Dorren 
Clerk: Clerk Donna Landry - Absent 
DPW Department Director: Bill Bernard 
Cemetery Superintendent: Todd Holman 
 
This meeting was recorded and posted on Lunenburg Public Access. Due to Zoom license 
limitations, the meeting was not held remote by Zoom. 
(Viewing of the recorded meeting: on YouTube - Lunenburg Public Access Cemetery Commission 
11.19.25)  
 
AGENDA: 
 
6:00 PM – Call to Order 
1.) Stand for Pledge of Allegiance 
2.) Reviewed and approved minutes from meeting on Thursday, October 30, 2025. Mike 
Clark added with inclusion of action Mike Clark took to write a letter to the Selectboard 
for additional person (staƯ) for the cemetery to the October 30, 2025 Minutes. Vice Chair 
David Dorren motioned we approve the prior minutes with addition, Chair Mike Clark 
seconded, AIF 
3.) Chair Mike Clark informed all that the Warrant Article was presented and passed last 
night at Town Meeting and $10,000 in funds were transferred from the Sale of Lots Fund 
to the Capital Article Fund, reducing Sale of Lots Fund from $105,971.13 to $95,971.13 
and increasing the Cemetery Fund from $4,283.61 to $14,283.61. Mike presented the 
Cemetery Budget, line items were discussed. Mike noted that the $7,800.00 for the 
construction of the stone wall at the Fish Street Cemetery is to come out of the Capital 
Article Fund. 
  
  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148 
 
Mike Clark, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair  
Donna Landry, Clerk  
 
DPW Department Director: Bill 
Bernard 
Cemetery Superintendent: Todd 
Holman 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
4.) DPW Director & Superintendents reports – Bill Bernard discussed electrical needs for the 
Flagpoles and that we would install Solar Lights on the ﬂagpoles shining down for a 
temporary ﬁx prior to the electrical in-ground installation which will be done later. Todd 
will call the electrician and schedule the installation. 
 Todd Holman presented the proposed plaque to recognize names of Capt Levi’s 4 
children that do not have markers and proposed location at backwall.  Discussed 
location of all graves and who is buried there. Plaque quote is $2,000. Additional pricing 
will be provided for the stone cleaning and repairs along with mounting the plaque. The 
committee decided to wait on expenditures outside of the wall installation until spring. 
Further thought is needed for the marker layout so that those visiting the cemetery will 
understand the burial layout.  
 All of Todd Holman’s research has been sent over to the Historical Society.  
 Leaf cleanup in North and South Cemetery is underway, waiting on cleanup for 
shrub fertilizer application. 
 Todd thanked Franny McNamara from Lunenburg Water for providing access to 
water for the shrubs 
 Todd spoke brieﬂy on North Lot expansion tree selection, sweet gum tree, maples as 
possibility. 
5.) David Dorren conﬁrmed the price per grave is $800.00, 2 lot purchase required. David 
received reports from other towns, looking into pricing structure. Discussed pricing 
amount and structure of Sale of Lots and Perpetual Care portions. David brought up that 
the sales of lots is not updated in real time, although payments are submitted to the 
Town. Bill Bernard to ﬁnd out if he can provide updated reports on sale of lots from the 
Town through the use of MUNIS. 
6.) Issues related to the delay in paying the Amanda Construction invoice were discussed. 
Work was completed October 9th and they are still waiting for payment. Myleen put 
together an invoicing template which the committee reviewed and agreed to use. Todd 
Holman and Bill Bernard will provide future invoices at meetings, to be dated and signed 
by the Cemetery Commission, and later submitted by Todd for a faster turn-around. 
7.) Backlot expansion – No update on the Backlot Expansion at North Cemetery at this time 
from DPW. Bill Bernard will reach out to Dillis & Roy 
8.) General discussion on future plans to promote Backlot Expansion, and increase of 
funds. To be discussed in future.  
9.) Chair Dave Dorren requested a motion to adjourn at 6:55pm, Chair Mike Clark seconded, 
AIF 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Donna l. Landry 