===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 26, 2026– 6:00PM 
Lunenburg Public Library – Sudolnik Conference Room 
Agenda 
 
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, the meeting was recorded and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube. This meeting wase held in-person at the location provided on this notice.  
1. Stand for Pledge of Allegiance. 
2. Review and Approve Minutes. Reviewed draft of Dec 19 minutes, waiting for AI export of Dec 11 minutes. 
3. Public Comment 
Chair Mike Clark brought up winter access to the cemeteries, Superintendent Todd Holman’s response was 
that it is a liability to provide. Entrances are cleared as time permits. Gates are not locked, ﬁre and police 
require access if someone enters and needs help. 
4. Budget & Expenditures Review 
Article to Town Manager & Select Board: Vice Chair David Dorren made a motion to request a $20K transfer 
from the Sale of Lots Fund to Capital fund for embellishment of the Cemeteries. Clerk Donna Landry 
seconded. AIF 
Plaque – David Dorren made a motion to approve 2k for headstone work and plaque for Fish Street cemetery. 
Donna seconded, AIF . 
5. Invoices Due – none due (lights on Poles have been completed) 
6. DPW Director & Superintendents reports 
- North Cemetery Backlot Expansion – Engineering Plan Review 
DPW Director Bill Bernard called Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy), working on cost estimates. 
Todd Holman – Scheduled 4 burials to do in spring, 2 in mausoleum, 10 cremations, 5 additional not 
committed yet. 
Fertilize in spring, ﬁx – stain compost bins, 2 part timers lined up to work.  
Finish ﬂailing in North Cemetery (completed South cemetery), will be done on a yearly rotating basis. 
Hedge Trimming in South Cemetery required and to be put out to bid. 
  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148 
 
Mike Clark, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair  
Donna Landry, Clerk  
 
DPW Department Director: Bill 
Bernard 
Cemetery Superintendent: Todd 
Holman 
 

===PAGE 2===
Cemetery Building Sign needs to state Division of DPW, not Dept of due to 2001 change. 
 
7. Rules versus Bylaws comparison 
Discussed in general, Bill Bernard put in for a fulltime employee as part of goals, Mike Clark to follow up with 
letter. 
David Dorren asked if there are internships available, no paid but for college course credit 
Todd Holman to present recommendations for updates in areas of the Rules & Regulations that are sticky 
points 
David Dorren and Donna Landry will check into Sale of Lots costs that other towns are charging 
- Lot pricing, reports from other towns, looking into pricing structure.  
8. Grants ongoing discussion 
9. Next meeting time – March 26th, 6:00 pm David will reserve room (also April, May & June) 
10. Adjourn – David Dorren made motion to adjourn, Donna Landry seconded, AIF at 7:16pm 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Donna l. Landry 
 