===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)
MINUTES
April 13, 2017
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt present. Also in attendance were
Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney, Mike Clark of Design Consultants, Inc. (DCI), and Ed
Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition (MWC). The meeting opened at 6:30 pm.
Minutes of the March 9, 2017, meeting were accepted.
Matt Allison announced that the Planning Board is aware that bylaw changes will be required in
conjunction with the Town's obligations under the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4)
Permit, Notice of Intent (NOI) to be filed by 9/29/17.
The evening's first discussion was a review of Minimum Control Measure (MCM) "Public Education
and Outreach" draft 1 (attached), which was initially discussed at our 3/9/17 meeting. In this MCM,
the Town is required, among other things, to send messages to each of 4 target audiences 2 times
during the first 5 years of the MS4 Permit. Those target audiences include: Residents, Developers,
Institutions (schools) and Commercial interests, as well as Businesses. It was determined that the
SWTF Education Subcommittee, Jack Rabbitt and Phyllis Luck, will begin to work on items to be
completed in 2017, which are identified as the responsibility of that subcommittee in draft 1. The
Neponset Stormwater Partnership has many applicable messages that may be used as templates for
message creation. The EPA has a 200 page Stormwater Handbook, which is also a great resource. It
was further determined that the Responsible Entity for providing Guidance for Industrial Stormwater
Management for Industrial Facilities would be the Assessor's Office. It was also noted that some of
the activities identified may be completed in advance of the dates set, should the opportunity arise.
The group moved on to MCM draft 2 (attached), Public Participation. It was determined that the Town
has already accomplished the BMP action of creating a Stormwater Task Force (SWTF), consisting of
5 members. The group will continue to reach out to enlist one additional member, as the task force
currently has 4 members.
The creation of a Stormwater Management Plan manager was discussed; as it is not a requirement of
the MS4 Permit, it was determined that this would not be pursued at this time, although the need is
recognized. Some Measurable goals were altered; DCI will forward the changes ASAP. It was
affirmed that the messages to be sent will originate in the SWTF, although Responsible Entities for
distribution will be spread among Town Boards and Institutions. As previously mentioned, the
Neponset Stormwater Partnership has many applicable messages that may be used as templates for
message creation. Creation of a community rain garden, which is not a requirement of this MCM, was
considered worthy of inclusion as it will also help fulfill the MCM's of Public Education and Outreach,
as well as Public Participation. However, Storm Drain Stenciling and Community Cleanups are not
requirements of the new MS4 Permit, and will not be a part of the NOI submittal.
MCM draft 4 (attached), Construction Site Stormwater Runoff Control was then reviewed. Two Best
Management Practices (BMP's) have bylaws in place. These are: Erosion/sediment control measures
for sites greater than or equal to one acre; and Site Inspection and enforcement for construction sites
greater than or equal to one acre. However, these bylaws currently reside in Zoning and need to be
moved to General Bylaws. It was determined that regulations for both of these categories will be
===PAGE 2===
created by a working group composed of Planning Board and Conservation Commission members; that
there will be one set of regulations which all boards will utilize and enforce, and that these will be in
place by June 2018. The current bylaws will then be moved to General Bylaws. Additionally, a new
bylaw and/or regulation must be added to deal with construction site waste dumping.
MCM draft 5 (attached), Stormwater Management in New Development and Redevelopment, was the
last to be reviewed. There are bylaws for 2 of the BMP's: Post-construction stormwater controls for
sites greater than or equal to one acre; and Regulations for stormwater control. The remaining BMP
categories in this MCM draft will need to be attended to by June 2019 through June 2023 and later.
There was a question posed as to how the Town will insure that these new BMP's will be followed by
Town boards and personnel. There was also a discussion on who will sign off on this NOI application.
Both these items will be discussed with the Board of Selectmen.
It was determined that at our next meeting with DCI, on May 25, Illicit Discharge Detection and
Elimination (IDDE) Program to eliminate illicit discharges & evaluate sources of non-stormwater
discharges; as well as Good House Keeping and Pollution Prevention for Permittee Owned Operations,
will be discussed. This will leave one remaining item, Part 5.0 Program Evaluation, Record Keeping
and Reporting.
As the hour was late, other items on the agenda were deferred to the next meeting, to be held on
4/27/17. There was a brief discussion of next steps with DCI. We will meet with DCI on May 25, at 6
pm, to discuss IDDE and Good House Keeping and Pollution Prevention for Permittee Owned
Operations; again on June 22, at 6:30, to review the NOI, and July 27, to discuss which Town boards
and personnel will be Responsible Entities for what BMP's.
Matt Allison made a motion to adjourn at 8:40 p.m., it was seconded by Jack Rabbitt, all voted in
favor.
The schedule of meetings will be April 27, May 11, May 25 (6 pm start), June 8 and 22. Meetings in
the 3' quarter will be on July 27, August 24, September 14 and 28. All meetings are at the Ritter
building, upper conference room, at 6:30 pm, unless noted otherwise.
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 0 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
