===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF) 
MINUTES 
July 27, 2017 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, Jack Rabbitt, and Jack Rodriquenz present. Also in 
attendance were Ed Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition (MWC), Mike Clark, of Design 
Consultants, Inc. (DCI), and Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney. The meeting opened 
at 6:35 pm.  
 
It was announced that the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit, originally to 
commence 7 2017, will be stayed until 7 2018.  The Notice of Intent (NOI) will now be due 9 
2018. 
 
Minutes of the June 8, 2017, meeting were accepted.  
  
There was a discussion on the status of the 2003 MS4 Permit requirements, including: 
 MS4 System mapping 
The system mapping to this point has shown the existence of some sump pumps 
 Procedures for removing illicit discharges to stormwater system 
Dry weather mapping is the most accurate indicator of the existence of illicit discharges 
to the stormwater system. 
Procedures must be adopted, implemented, and documented. 
 Record keeping and reporting for 2003 permit 
DCI Consultants emphasized the importance of the creation of accurate documentation 
within a Central Data System to comply with the requirements of the current MS4 permit. 
 
There was a discussion about what the SWTF may accomplish beyond the requirements of the 
current MS4 Permit, as there is much that is worth doing to improve water quality in 
Lunenburg’s lakes and ponds that is spelled out in the new MS4 Permit which has been delayed 
one year.  It was discussed that the BOS first wants the SWTF to focus on the “must do’s” with 
the available funds.  However, should there be “low hanging fruit” that may be relatively easy 
to accomplish, provide good value, and move stormwater management in the right direction, 
those tasks will be undertaken. 
 
The final draft of the Notice of Intent (NOI), now due 9 2018, was reviewed.  A few minor 
changes were made, such as the replacement terminology of “Land Use Department” for 
“Planning Department”, as this would encompass boards other than Planning and more 
accurately reflect the responsible entities.  It was determined that, within Minimum Control 
Measure (MCM) 6, the Best Management Practice (BMP) for Operation and Maintenance 
(O&M) “Responsible Departments/Entities”  would include Town Departments in addition to 
the DPW Operations, as other Town Departments have responsibilities in these areas (for 
example Police, Fire, and School departments maintain, wash, store vehicles.  The School 
Department mows and fertilizes playing fields.  
===PAGE 2===
There was a discussion on the Board of Selectmen’s request for a review of the Stormwater 
Management Plan (SWMP) NOI.  It was determined that it would fit best to have a review with 
the BOS in October.  Phyllis will request that this be put on the agenda.  Adam has agreed to 
create summaries of each MCM to facilitate this presentation. 
 
Cost estimates for MCM’s (attached) were discussed.  It was acknowledged that these are 
estimates only, and do provide a first look at what the Town may be looking forward to in terms 
of costs of compliance. 
 
It was announced that Town Manager Lemieux has informed the SWTF that the fully executed 
contract documents for the $25,000 Community Compact Grant to implement the Stormwater 
Measures identified in the scope of work have been received.  She has advised the SWTF to 
proceed with hiring a consultant to perform the tasks identified in this scope of work.  The 
SWTF will discuss at the next meeting to be held on 8/24/17. 
 
Jack Rabbitt exited the meeting at 8:24 pm. 
 
The meeting schedule was then confirmed  for the third quarter :   August 24, September 14, 
28.  A schedule for October through December will be discussed at the next SWTF meeting.  All 
meetings will be held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room , unless 
otherwise noted. 
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Matt Allison at 8:31 pm; it was  seconded by Jack Rodriquenz; 
all concurred. 
 
 
 
 
 