===PAGE 1===
 
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)  
MINUTES 
January 12, 2017 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt, present. Also in attendance was 
Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney. The meeting opened at 6:32 pm.  
 
An announcement was made that the 28 
th  Annual Nonpoint Source Pollution Conference for the New 
England states and New York will be held on April 12 – 13, 2017, at the Hotel Northampton in 
Northampton, MA.  Coordinated by the New England Interstate Water Pollution Control Commission 
in partnership with member states and the EPA, the conference focuses on sharing information about 
nonpoint source pollution issues and projects in the region.  Sessions will reflect the theme: “Lesson s 
learned:  What Worked, and What Didn’t”? 
 
Phyllis Luck shared that Sarah Cammer has resigned from the SWTF, effective immediately, for 
personal reasons.  SWTF members will reach out to see if there are others interested in filling that void. 
 
Minutes of the December 8, 2016, meeting were accepted.   
 
It was noted that Jon O’Connor has offered to help with the website; he’s created one poster, too, and  
will place copies around Town for us.  When he placed the rain barrel at the Library, Library personnel 
were interested in hosting a SWTF presentation.  A discussion around if and when ensued.  There was 
also a discussion about work needed on the website. Further discussion will follow at our next meeting. 
 
Phyllis reported on the Bay State Roads workshop sh e attended on 12/14/16 “Getting the Most out of 
your snow & ice operations”.  Although no one from Lunenburg’s DPW was available to come along, 
Jack Rodriquenz sent her armed with information on Lunenburg’s current winter storm protocol, which 
was very helpful. The presenter had been the DPW di rector in Heath, in the Northwestern corner of the 
state, where they’d already received 16” of snow th is year and have elevation changes from 300 to 
2400 feet.  Presenter Mike Smith had successfully i mplemented these advanced techniques in his 
Town.  Practical suggestions include pretreating of  roadways before the storm, applying only salt 
products (liquid or rock) during the storm, and usi ng multi sectional articulating blades on plows to 
increase the amount of snow cleared. These newer te chniques result in improved safety and lower 
costs. For example, before making the switch to sal t, it took Heath’s DPW 3 years to clean all catch 
basins; it now takes under a week because there is so much less debris to remove. A salt/sand mix uses  
more salt than a salt only application. We are sett ing up a meeting with Mike Smith, Baystate Roads 
Technical Training Specialist and the workshop pres enter, to explore if any of the techniques promoted  
would be of interest to Lunenburg.  Tentative meeting date is 1/24/17. 
 
During this discussion, Adam Burney suggested that SWTF member and DPW Director Jack 
Rodriquenz make a presentation to the SWTF on Lunen burg’s current winter storm protocol.  SWTF 
members have been asked to forward specific questio ns that should be addressed in the presentation to 
the Chair, who will compile same & bring them to th e next SWTF meeting.  It is intended that this 
presentation be taped by Public Access, either live or for future distribution. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Prior to beginning the Education Workshop, the Task Force reviewed the meeting schedule for the first 
quarter of 2017. At the 1/26/17 meeting, the SWTF will meet with Design Consultants, Inc. (DCI) for 
an update on their progress.  It was requested that Adam Burney insure that lists of roads, as requested 
for the 2/14/17 Board of Selectmen (BOS) meeting, be available for the 1/26/17 meeting.  This 
includes those roads: 
•  paved as a part of the Pavement Management Debt Exclusion in 2016 
•  scheduled to be paved in 2017 (Debt Exclusion and other roads) 
 
Board & Public comment was also sought, so that focus could shift to the workshop topic. 
 
Phyllis opened the Education workshop by reporting that she’s working on a Lunenburg Public Schools 
Visioning Steering Committee, and has had the opportunity to interact with 5 
th  grade Math & Science 
teacher, Brian Chartrand, who felt this grade level would be the perfect fit for educational outreach.  
He’d like us to get in touch with him to work out d etails.  She then introduced the Enviroscape that was 
borrowed from the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition (CMRSWC), a visual teaching tool to 
show the effects of nonpoint source pollution. It may be borrowed any time for presentations; the 
Coalition has 2.  She also brought attention to the Project Wet curriculum that Sarah Cammer has 
contributed. 
 
Jack Rabbitt is planning to reach out to Superintendent Calmes for further discussion on Educational 
Outreach.  Phyllis Luck will reach out to Ed Himlan to determine if he has knowledge of the 
Stormwater educational outreach practices in Leominster and/or other towns. 
 
Motion to adjourn was made at 7:54 pm by Matt Alison, seconded by Jack Rabbitt, all voted in favor. 
 
Next meeting will be Thursday, January 26, 2017, at 6:30 pm, at the Ritter Building, upper conference 
room.  Remaining meetings of the first quarter will be February 9 & 23, March 9 & 30. 
 
 
 
 
 
 