===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)
MINUTES
May 11, 2017
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference
room, as scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt present. Also in
attendance was Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney. The meeting opened at
6:35 pm.
Minutes of the April 27, 2017, meeting were accepted.
The SWTF discussed the Community Compact award of $25,000 to implement
stormwater management measures; specifically with which measures the Town would
request assistance. Adam Burney presented a document (attached) based on the SWTF
discussion on this topic at the 4/27/17 meeting. There were two changes made to Item 7:
a) Evaluate the existing detention basin at the Public Library for suitability as a
rain garden, or propose an alternate highly visible location.
b) Work with the DPW Director and Stormwater Task Force to recommend a
design for the proposed rain garden.
The SWTF then voted unanimously to approve the document for submission to the
Community Compact folks, which Adam Burney will accomplish.
With regard to items B and C of the agenda, the SWTF agreed to wait until the next
meeting (5/25), when DCI will be presenting the information gained at the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NDES) Notice of Intent (NOI) workshop held
on 5/9/17, which will further the understanding of the requirements of the Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit NOI.
There was discussion around the Stormwater Task Force Revolving Fund, such fund to
be credited with the proceeds of the sale of rain barrels and composting bins. The barrels
and bins are currently purchased through an annual grant in the amount of $5400. Barrels
and bins, purchased for $56 and $43, respectively, are currently sold at cost. These funds
formerly went into the Town's coffers. With the establishment of this revolving fund, the
SWTF has gained the flexibility to offer these items in a variety of ways, to promote
getting more of them out into the community. The SWTF agreed to seek Selectboard
approval to offer the barrels/bins, when purchased as a pair, at the reduced cost of $80 (a
$19 savings). Matt Allison made a motion that the SWTF petition the Board of
Selectmen to offer the rain barrel/compost bin, when purchased as a pair, at the lower
cost of $80. The motion was seconded by Jack Rabbitt, all voted in favor. The SWIF
will also seek opportunities to continue to offer the barrels/bins at community events,
such as the Stillman Fair, as silent auction or raffle items. It was determined that the
===PAGE 2===
SWTF will hold a silent auction at the June 14, 2017, Cruise Night, for several rain
barrels and compost bins. Jack Rabbitt volunteered to organize and run this. He will
work with Jamie Toale, who'll set up a Town Government booth at the fair, to be located
at that booth. Adam Burney will research educational materials for stormwater runoff
mitigation related to automobiles for this event. He will have the flyers available on or
before the SWTF June 8 meeting, with the intention of distributing same at the Cruise
Night.
Jack Rabbitt made a motion to adjourn at 7:45 p.m., it was seconded by Matt Allison, all
voted in favor.
The schedule of meetings will be May 25(6 pm start) with DCI Consultants, June 8, and
June 22 with DCI Consultants. Meetings in the 3'd quarter will be on July 27, August 24,
September 14 and 28. All meetings are at the Ritter building, upper conference room, at
6:30 pm, unless noted otherwise.
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 2 6 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
