===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Phyllis Luck informed the group that the Charter Review Committee has asked for any input
task force members may have concerning to the review of the charter and how it relates to the
SWTF. The topic will be placed on the next agenda to provide members with an opportunity to
provide comments for the Charter Review Committee.
There was a brief discussion on the Community Compact Grant of $25,000. Town Manager
Lemieux has advised that she has signed the proposal submitted by Design Consultants, Inc
(DCI) and will forward same ASAP. DCI will attend the SWTF December 7 meeting to report
on the status of the work. Jack Rabbitt advised that the Mass. Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP) has given the Lunenburg Conservation Commission authority to spend about
$22,000 that is the result of a fine bestowed on P J Keating Company. Jack Rabbitt will work
to have some of this money spent on items that will help mitigate the effects of stormwater,
targeting work in both the Mulpus and Easter Brooks. He will keep the SWTF apprised of the
status of this effort. Matt Allison mentioned several parcels of Town owned land where such
efforts could be focused.
At a recent Board of Selectmen meeting, Paula Bertram had suggested that the SWTF reach out
to the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) to investigate their data collection
and cataloging application. Brian Doherty of MRPC advised that they have created a tool for
data collection and cataloging that they would be happy to facilitate a demonstration of at their
office. This application (app) allows data collection in the field by a data surveyor who could
catalog information from a drop down list on a phone or tablet which would also automatically
record GPS coordinates, allowing for easier mapping and referencing. DPW Director
Rodriquenz requested that the Chair reach out to Mr. Doherty to obtain a few dates for the
SWTF review of this application, which she will do.
The status of record keeping and reporting for the 2003 Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) permit was briefly discussed. After reviewing Lunenburg's permit, DCI had
emphasized the importance of the creation of accurate documentation within a Central
Electronic Data System to comply with the requirements of this permit. It was determined that
the SWTF will ask DCI to suggest how this might be accomplished. The Chair Will reach out to
DCI and, hopefully put this on the agenda for the December 7 meeting.
===PAGE 2===
achieved on the roadways being paved as part of the Debt Exclusion. Berms and other
improvements that can be incorporated during the paving process are being completed. Off
road work, which will not directly impact the paved surfaces, will be completed post paving.
There was a brief discussion of the October 17 presentation of the Notice of Intent (NOI) for the
2018 MS4 Permit, which has been prepared by DCI. Adam Burney shared the power point
slide show created to provide an overview of the new Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) Permit, now scheduled to go into effect in 2018, as well as other materials. Adam
Burney will make the presentation to the Board of Selectmen at the October 17, 2017 meeting
of that Board
Matt Allison is waiting for word from the Town's attorney on the creation of utilities.
The meeting schedule was then confirmed for the fourth quarter: a presentation to the BOS on
10/17 at Town Hall, then regular meetings on November 9 and December 7. All meetings are
held at 6:30 pm, in the Kitter Building, upper conterence room, unless otherwise noted.
Motion to adjourn was made by Matt Allison at 8:29 pm; it was seconded by Jack Rabbitt; all
concurred.
