===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)
MINUTES
March 9, 2017
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rodriquenz present. Also in attendance were
Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney, Mike Clark of Design
Consultants, Inc. (DCI), and Ed Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition (MWC). The meeting
opened at 6:30 pm. Jack Rabbitt joined the meeting at 6:35.
Minutes of the February 23, 2017, meeting were accepted.
Town Manager Lemieux, Mike Clark, and Ed Himlan were welcomed to the meeting.
The meeting opened with a discussion of the filing of the MS4 (Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System) permit due 4/30/17. DPW Director Rodriquenz explained that the firm of Weston and
Sampson has assisted the Director with the filing of the MS4 permit in previous years, for about $2200
per filing. He suggested that the team of Mike Clark, of DCI, and Ed Himlan, of MWC, take over this
year and complete the final filing required under the original MS4 Permit. Mr. Clark stated that they
could perform this task for less than $2200.
There was a brief discussion of the work needed to file the MS4 permit that Messrs. Clark and Himlan
have already been contracted to complete, which is due September 29, 2017, and which the consultants
plan to have prepared by August 2017. This new permit will cover the period 5/1/17 to 7/1/18, a period
of 14 months.
The focus then shifted to a discussion around the potential stormwater remediation needs associated
with the Pavement Management plan. Director Rodriquenz explained why he feels mapping the
locations of the Town's stormwater system, including catch basins, drainage manholes, pipes, and
culverts to provide a complete picture of the Town's stormwater system is essential to the planning for
and management of the Town's accelerated pavement plan. Mike Clark presented the suggested
Proposal 2017-101 Scope of Work (attached), which consists of 3 Tasks, including Project
Coordination/Management; Mapping, and Stormwater Consulting, for a proposed budget of $42,300,
with a caveat that DCI is currently reviewing mapping survey methods which may prove more cost
effective.
After a lengthy discussion, Jack Rabbitt made a motion to accept DCI's proposal 2017-101 to complete
the tasks outlined therein. Jack Rodriquenz seconded, the SWTF voted unanimously in favor. Mike
Clark exited the meeting.
There was further discussion about how to capture any stormwater related activities and structures
completed after the mapping has been completed. Adam Burney stated that the Planning Board and
Conservation Commission would need to update their regulations so that contractors and developers
Will have a requirement to submit "as built" plans in the preferred format so that all structures created
will appear on the map. He assured the SWTF that these revised regulations could be in place by July
of 2017. Such regulations are essential as they will eliminate the need for the Town to expend
resources to complete this required activity.
Ed Himlan passed out copies of the SWMP (Stormwater Management Plan) MCM (Minimum Control
Measure) 1 draft: Public Education and Outreach (attached). Discussion ensued. It was noted that the
===PAGE 2===
SWTF is one of the responsible entities identified in 7 of the 9 Best Management Practice (BPM)
items. If/when the SWTF transforms into a standing committee or other entity, those responsibilities
will need to be transferred. Jack Rabbitt introduced a Mindjet Stormwater Management Plan tool that
he has uploaded on the SWTF website (pdf attached). Discussion ensued.
It was determined that the next 2 meetings with DCI will need to address the remaining Minimum
Control Measures, grouped in pairs. One meeting will discuss "Construction Site Stormwater Control
Program" as well as "Stormwater Management in New Development and Redevelopment". A separate
meeting will consider "Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination (IDDE) Program" to eliminate illicit
discharges & evaluate sources of non-stormwater discharges as well as "Good House Keeping and
Pollution Prevention for Permittee Owned Operations". DCI will join us at our next meeting, to be
held on Thursday, April 13, 2017. These meetings are essential to have as quickly as possible as they
will inform the completion of the MS4 permit application, which will hopefully be completed in
August. DCI will send out materials for discussion at least one week in advance of the 4/13/17
meeting, so the group will have time to consider in advance. It is intended that the group may hold off
on voting on specific items until the following meeting, in the event members need more time for
reflection.
Motion to adjourn was made at 8:44 pm by Jack Rodriquenz, seconded by Jack Rabbitt, all voted in
favor.
Next meeting will be Thursday, April 13, 2017, at 6:30 pm, at the Ritter building, upper conference
room; De. Consultants will be in attendance. Proposed meetings for the remainder of the second
quarter include April 27, May 11, 25, June 8, 22.
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 18 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
