===PAGE 1===
 
     STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)  
MINUTES 
January 26, 2017 
 
 
 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Phyllis Luck, Jack Rabbitt, and Jack Rodriquenz present. Also in attendance were 
Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney, as well as Ed Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition 
and Mike Clark of Design Consultants, Inc. (DCI).  The meeting opened at 6:30 pm.  
 
Minutes of the January 12, 2017, meeting were accepted.   
 
The SWTF welcomed our consultants, Ed Himlan and Mike Clark, to discuss their progress so far on 
work to complete Lunenburg’s MS4 (Municipal Separat e Storm Sewer System) permit.  Ed Himlan 
passed out a one page bulleted outline entitled: Stormwater Management Program (SWMP) 
Requirements Outline (due by 6/30/18), which articulated those requirements as well as dates 
compliance must be achieved, attached.  During the discussion it was mentioned that the Central Mass 
Regional Stormwater Coalition (CMRSWC) website contains much useful information and related 
forms, as well as Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination (IDDE) tools which are available for the 
taking.  There is other proprietary information available to members of the CMRSWC; Lunenburg 
became a member in FY 17. 
 
The SWTF and consultants spent the next hour and 45 minutes reviewing these requirements. The 
Minimum Control Measures are required to be achieved over a 5 year period, with completion dates 
dictated by the MS 4 (Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System) Permit. It was clear that some items, 
such as Construction Site Stormwater Control Program requirements, due by 6/30/18, will be relatively 
inexpensive and easily achievable. However, many of the other requirements will be quite costly and 
require careful planning. Some items will need to be outsourced.  It was determined that the Board of 
Selectmen and Town Manager will need to be brought into the conversation when the MS4 Permit is 
ready to be filed, before 8/17/17,  as sources of funding will need to begin to be identified. We will 
next meet with our consultants on March 9, 2017, at 6:30 pm in the Ritter Building, upper conference 
room. 
 
DPW (Department of Public Works) Director Rodriquenz presented the pavement management 
program, including roads paves in 2016, and those to be paved in 2017 per the Debt Exclusion.  There 
was some discussion that optional roads may be included in 2017, while some roads may be excluded, 
depending on issues such as stormwater management requirements.  Director Rodriquenz will set up a 
meeting with Mike Clark of DCI to review the roads to be paved in 2017, to be able to discuss 
stormwater best management practices that may be utilized where appropriate, on these roads. 
 
It was determined that the next meeting of the SWTF will take place at the DPW facility on Chase Rd.  
Director Rodriquenz will explain what the DPW does and how its operations deal with areas of concern 
to the SWTF.  Task Force members may submit questions directly to the Director in advance of that 
meeting. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Motion to adjourn was made at 8:35 pm by Jack Rodriquenz, seconded by Jack Rabbitt, all voted in 
favor. 
 
Next meeting will be Thursday, February 9, 2017, at 6:30 pm, at the Department of Public Works 
Building on Chase Road, in the conference room.  Remaining meetings of the first quarter will be 
February 23, March 9 (with DCI Consultants) & 23. 
 
 
 
 
 
 