===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF) RECEIVED & FILED
MINUTES
OCT 02 2017
August 24, 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floo 46Re trice toom, as
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt present. Also in attendance were
Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney, and Ed Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition
(MWC). The meeting opened at 6:31 pm.
Minutes of the July 27, 2017, meeting were accepted.
During Board Comment, Jack Rabbitt advised that he is working with School Superintendent
Calmes on an education initiative to get Stormwater Task Force information into the schools, as
a curricula component.
There was a discussion on the Community Compact Grant $25,000 award and which tasks will
be targeted to be implemented with this money. Several projects were discussed and the likely
target for these funds was determined to be mapping catchments and critical outfalls,
prioritizing these into 3 groups based on the amount of sediments to be removed and the
positive effects on the receiving waters. Prioritization will not necessarily mean the least
expensive, but rather those tasks that will yield the best results for the dollars spent. The group
receiving the highest prioritization will be the first to be done. Mike Clark of Design
Consultants, Inc. (DCI) and Ed Himlan of MWC will provide an estimated cost at a September
meeting of the SWTF.
The status of the 2003 Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) permit requirements
was also discussed.
• MS4 system mapping has been completed
• Procedures for removing illicit discharges to stormwater system will be identified and
documented by Adam Burney, using the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition
(CMRSWC) template, available on their website. These procedures need to be adopted
by the Department of Public Works (DPW), so Adam will be in contact with DPW
Director Rodriquenz, who was not present at the meeting.
• Record keeping and reporting for the 2003 MS4 permit. DCI has emphasized the
importance of the creation of accurate documentation within a Central Electronic Data
System to comply with the requirements of this permit. In DPW Director Rodriquenz'
absence, this item was not addressed at this time.
It was determined that the SWTF will put survey creation off for the moment as it is a
requirement of the new MS4 Permit, which will likely begin in 2018. However, Public
Outreach and Educational materials should begin to be addressed, as they are components of
both permits.
Phyllis Luck had reached out to a website designer to get an initial idea of costs. Qwicket
Design came in with an hourly cost of $60, and a thought that a very simple, effective website
===PAGE 2===
could be created for between $600 - $1,000. She will reach out to Steve Malandrinos,
Lunenburg's IT Director, to understand if, in fact, it is possible to hire a consultant to work on a
website housed within the Town's website. The S WTF has put this on hold for the moment.
Ed Himlan also discussed a project to address the sediments and pollutants entering Lake
Shirley and Hickory Hills, as these water bodies are Category 5 (most highly polluted) and
Category 4A, respectively. Although this is a very worthwhile project, it would not be covered
by the Community Compact grant and would require other funding sources. Ed mentioned that
there are funding sources available that could be sought. For the moment, this worthwhile plan
will be put on hold by the SWTF, as there are higher priority tasks dealing more directly with
stormwater and the requirements of the MS4 permit.
At a recent Board of Selectmen meeting, Paula Bertram had suggested that the SWTF reach out
to the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) to investigate their data collection
and cataloging application. Brian Doherty of MRPC advised that they have created a tool for
data collection and cataloging that they would be happy to facilitate a demonstration of at their
office. This application (app) allows data collection in the field by a data surveyor who could
catalog information from a drop down list on a phone or tablet which would also automatically
record GPS coordinates, allowing for easier mapping and referencing. Again, since DPW
Director Rodriquenz was not in attendance, the SWTF asked the chair to reach out to him with
this information. The Task Force will put it on the agenda for the next meeting.
There was a brief discussion of the October 17 presentation of the Notice of Intent (NOI) for the
2018 MS4 Permit. Adam Burney is working with Town Manager Lemieux to insure that all
Town Boards and Departments designated as participants in the work to comply with the new
MS4 Permit will be made aware of their involvement prior to the presentation. The presentation
will be discussed further at a September meeting. Ed Himlan advised that providing large maps
would be a very helpful addition to all presentations.
Adam Burney reported that the Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination (IDDE) Zoning
bylaw as well as the Stormwater bylaw will be put on the Fall Town Meeting Warrant to be
moved out of Zoning and into the General Bylaws.
The meeting schedule was then confirmed for the remainder of the third quarter: September
14 and/or 28 (we await word from DCI as to which date they will be available and may cancel
the second meeting in September). The schedule for the fourth quarter will include meetings
on October 12, a presentation to the BOS on 10/17, and a possible meeting on October 26,
necessity to be determined. The SWTF will meet November 11 and December 7. All meetings
will be held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room, unless otherwise noted.
Motion to adjourn was made by Jack Rabbitt at 8:05 pm; it was seconded by Matt Allison; all
concurred.
