===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)
RECEIVED & FILED
MINUTES
OCT 1 0 2017
September 28, 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor confeRK 8FB6GE as
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt present. Also in attendance were
Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney, Mike Clark of Design Consultants Inc. (DCI),
and Ed Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition (MWC). The meeting opened at 6:41 pm.
It was announced that the next Steering Committee meeting of the Central Mass Regional
Stormwater Coalition (CMRSWC) will be held on October 3, at 10 a.m., in Auburn. Phyllis
Luck will attend; Adam Burney has a conflict and will not be able to attend. The annual
meeting of the coalition will be November 16 at the MA Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP) office in Worcester, MA. There is an educational opportunity for coalition
members in Westford on October 16, 17, and 18; Phyllis Luck and Jack Rabbitt are planning to
attend. She will send out information to the SWTF in the event others are interested.
In a recent meeting with Town Manager Lemieux, the Town Manager inquired as to the benefit
that the Town is receiving from its membership in the CMRSWC. Task Force members will
document their use of coalition resources and forward same to the Town Manager for her
perusal.
Minutes of the August 24, 2017, meeting were accepted.
There was a discussion on the Community Compact Grant $25,000 award and which tasks will
be targeted to be implemented with this money. Mike Clark and Ed Himlan reviewed their
proposal from the meeting of 8/24, attached, of mapping catchments and critical outfalls,
prioritizing these into 3 groups based on the amount of sediments to be removed and the
positive effects on the receiving waters. Prioritization will be based on those tasks that will
yield the best results for the dollars spent. The consultants will work with Lunenburg
Department of Public Works (DPW) Director Rodriquenz to determine the best solutions based
on initial capital expenditures required as well as cost of maintenance moving forward. The
group receiving the highest prioritization will be the first to be done, when possible. The
estimated cost of this work is $35,000. As the grant is $25,000, it will be supplemented by some
of the $40,000 available in the DPW budget for Stormwater work. A motion was made by Jack
Rabbitt to approve this proposal, it was seconded by Matt Allison, all voted in favor. Phyllis
Luck will contact Town Manager Lemieux to determine next steps.
The status of record keeping and reporting for the 2003 MS4 permit was briefly discussed. DCI
has emphasized the importance of the creation of accurate documentation within a Central
Electronic Data System to comply with the requirements of this permit. Again, as at last
meeting, in DPW Director Rodriquenz' absence, this item was not addressed at this time.
Procedures for removing illicit discharges to stormwater system will be identified and
documented by Adam Burney, using the CMRSWC template, available on their website, which
===PAGE 2===
procedures will then need to be adopted by the DPW. Mr. Burney will work with the DPW,
therefore, to identify procedures to be used.
At a recent Board of Selectmen meeting, Paula Bertram had suggested that the SWTF reach out
to the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) to investigate their data collection
and cataloging application. Brian Doherty of MRC advised that they have created a tool for
data collection and cataloging that they would be happy to facilitate a demonstration of at their
office. This application (app) allows data collection in the field by a data surveyor who could
catalog information from a drop down list on a phone or tablet which would also automatically
record GPS coordinates, allowing for easier mapping and referencing. Again, since DPW
Director Rodriquenz was not in attendance, and has not responded to the information forwarded
to him by the Chair, this issue was not addressed. The Task Force will put it on the agenda
once again for the next meeting.
There was a brief discussion of the October 17 presentation of the Notice of Intent (NOI) for the
2018 MS4 Permit. Adam Burney is working with Town Manager Lemieux to insure that all
Town Boards and Departments designated as participants in the work to comply with the new
MS4 Permit will be made aware of their involvement prior to the presentation. Adam Burney
will prepare a power point slide show to provide an overview of the new Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit, now scheduled to go into effect in 2018, as well as Notice
of Intent (NOI) for this permit, which has already been prepared by DCI. This presentation will
be available by 10/9 and will be discussed further at the SWTF meeting of 10/12.
Phyllis Luck reached out to IT Director Steve Malandrinos about website work: He informed
her that the Town is in the process of redesigning the website. The new site will be more
geared toward public outreach and interactivity, and should be available in a couple of months.
There is a ½ day of on-site training to get folks up to speed included, which he will publicize so
that all are aware. His suggestion is to wait until this work is completed, and to see how well
the new Town website suits our needs. He further advised that it is a time consuming endeavor
to keep a website up to date with rich content, so that the SWTF may want to consider hiring
someone, if funds can be so allocated.
Matt Allison is waiting for word from the Town's attorney on the creation of utilities.
The meeting schedule was then confirmed for the fourth quarter: October 12, a presentation
to the BOS on 10/17 at Town Hall, then regular meetings on November 9 and December 7. All
meetings are held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room, unless otherwise
noted.
Motion to adjourn was made by Matt Allison at 7:54 pm; it was seconded by Jack Rabbitt; all
concurred.
===PAGE 3===
DC
Design Consultants, Inc.
September 27, 2017
OCT 1 6 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Civil Engineering
Transportation/Traffic
Water/Wastewater
Geotechnical
Land Surveying
Environmental
Planning
Ms. Phyllis Luck, Chairperson
Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
Re:
Proposed Lunenburg Sub-basin Project
Dear Ms. Luck:
Design Consultants Inc. (DCI), and its teaming partner, the Massachusetts Watershed Coalition
(MWC), are please to submit this proposal to the Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force (Taskforce) for
the above referenced Project. The purpose of this proposed project is to identity classity the protty
outfalls (high/medium/low) discharging stormwater into the surface waters of five Lunenburg
watersheds, identify effective best management practices (BMPs) and treatment train options for
addressing the high priority outfalls, provide pollutant removal and cost estimates for installation,
funding options, and maintenance and monitoring requirements. The five high value sub-basins
included in the analysis in the Town are:
• Upper Mulphus Brook which is a Coldwater Fish Resource (CFR) and is the main surface
source for Hickory Hills Lake.
• Hickory Hills Lake which contains swimming beaches and private drinking water supplies.
Catacoonamug Brook is a CFR, runs through the Town's wellfields and is a source for the
Town Beach and Lake Shirley.
• Easter Brook is a CFR and water source for Lake Shirley
• Lake Shirley contains Town owned landand supplies water to private wells.
The results will be presented in a Management Plan for each sub-basin.
SCOPE OF WORK
Task 1- Initial Ranking: The DCI Team will perform an initial desktop assessment utilizing available
information (Town's GIS, MASS Olive GIS, and EPA Impervious Cover) to determine outfall
catchment areas and develop pollutant load estimates. This information will be used to develop a
preliminary outfall/ catchment ranking (high, medium, and low) to be utilized in site visit assessment.
Task 2 - Site Visit: The DCI Team will visit the outfall/catchment sites to evaluate the on the ground
conditions and adjust the rankings as necessary.
1495 Hancock Street, Suite 206, Quincy, MA 02169 • 617.689.1010 • www.dci-ma.com
Somerville, MA 617.776.3350 • Newburyport, MA 978.358.7173
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force
Lamenburg Sub-Basin Project
Page 2 of 2
September 27, 2017
Task 3 - BMP Selection: The Team will select BMP and stormwater treatment train options for the
high priority outfall/catchment areas and will develop cost estimates and pollutant removal estimates
for each the outfall/ catchment areas.
Task 4 - Funding Sources: The Team will identify potential funding sources from various state, local
and federal programs, and identity potential grant in-kind matching sources.
Task 5 - Schedule: 'The Team will provide a conceptual 10-year look-ahead schedule for the timing of
the BMP implementation. High priority sites will be scheduled in the Years 1 to 5, medium priority
sites for years 4 to 8, and low priority sites, year 6 and beyond. The schedule will be developed based
on input from the Task Force and a likely projection of potential funding sources.
Task 6 - Maintenance and Monitoring: The Team will provide Operation and Maintenance Plan for
cach recommended BMP along with guidance for outfall monitoring.
The results will be provided in the form a report (one for cach sub-basin) which documents the results
of the project. Included in the report will be a map of each sub-basin with high, medium and low
prority outtalls color coded and the delineation of priority catchment areas. Each of the tasks will
represented as its own section of the report. Attachments will include calculations, operation and
maintenance plans, supporting calculations, cost estimates and othet pertinent information. The
report will be suitable as the preliminary basis for pursuing funding.
The total estimated fees for this project are Thirty Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000).
Thank you for requesting this proposal, and we look forward to working with you on this project.
Sincerely yours,
DESIGN CONSULTANTS, INC.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Michael F. Clark, P.E.
Associate
Date:_
Accepted by: _
Title:
Date:
MFC/ka
Encl 2017 fee schedule
:\SECRETARY\MARKETING \PROPOSAL \LUNENBURG\TOWN OF LUNENBURG\SUB BASIN PROJECT.DOCX
www.dci-ma.com
