===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (DEt),
and was led by consultants from the firm VHB. Adam felt this workshop worthwhile and was reassured that
Lunenburg is making good progress on complying with the requirements of the current Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System Permit (MS4), as well as being prepared for the introduction of the new MS4 Permit, due
to become effective July 2018.
Phyllis Luck commented that at the session she attended, representatives from the Town of Woburn gave a
presentation on how they are using high school and college interns to complete a good deal of their field work;
it is proving to be an efficient and cost effective process for Woburn. Newton Tedder, from EPA, author of the
new MS4 Permit, discussed that the document underwent "legal" review prior to being made available to the
public, and that, as a result of the subsequent "legalese" introduced into the permit, it is not always obvious
what is actually being required. He urged anyone with questions to reach out to him directly so he may shed
light on what is actually being required of municipalities, should there be confusion.
Phyllis mentioned that the EPA and Consensus Building Institute (CBI) are offering a 4 session training for
municipal leaders on reaching community consensus on Stormwater Funding Solutions on 3/6, 3/30, 5/3, and
5/24.
Minutes of the February 8, 2018 meeting were accepted.
Ed Himlan, representing DCI, reiterated the progress of their Community Compact Grant award project to
examine and prioritize outfalls in Lunenburg to determine the ranking of the 27 outfalls (out of the
approximately 500 total outfalls) which have risen to the top of the "needs improvement" list to be upgraded
using Best Management Practices (BMP's). This work will need to be completed to comply with the
requirements of the new MS4 Permit, due to be implemented by the EPA in July 2018.
He again passed out copies of the individual maps of 5 sub-basins in Lunenburg, comprising approximately
75% of the Town. These sub-basins include: Catacunemaug Brook; Easter Brook; Hickory Hills Lake; Lake
Shirley; and Upper Mulpus Brook. High Priority Outfalls were highlighted. Also included was a Priority
BMP's Draft Summary map of the Town of Lunenburg with 25 Priority BMP's identified.
Also provided was the Priority BMPs Draft Summary, which DCI had passed out at the last SWTF meeting (see
3 1 18 minutes for pertinent attachments). DCI had suggested that S WTF members review the ranking to see if
any changes were warranted. This summary included Sites, Priority Ranking, Soils identified using Hydrologic
Soils Group (HSG), suggested BMP's, approximate cost estimate range, Timing (which year targeted for
completion), possible funding sources, and pertinent notes. Phyllis Luck had gone out into the field to examine
the sites that were given Medium to High priority and suggested that LS: 54-57 on Sunset Lane be moved from
Medium to High priority, as the stormwater runoff flows directly into Lake Shirley. No other changes were
suggested
Ed Himlan informed the group that the next step will involve Mike Clark of DCI going out to look over these
27 ranked sites. Mike will suggest possible BMP techniques and provide refined cost estimates for these sites.
===PAGE 2===
Phyllis Luck reported on the Central Mass. Regional Stormwater Coaltion (CMks We) Steering Committee
meeting of 2 13 18. Members had discussed the great advantages of the People GIS mapping documentation
capabilities for catch basin cleaning, etc. In addition to the ability of being able to update automatically in the
field using a phone or tablet, another advantage is that People GIS stores all this information for member
communities. She will forward a copy of the Steering Committee minutes as soon as approved, in the event
Task Force members would like more information on this meeting. The next CMRSWC Steering Committee
meeting will be held 3/20/18 at 10 a.m., in Grafton.
Upcoming Conferences:
New England Water Works Association (NEWWA) Spring Conference will be held at the DCU Center in
Worcester, April 4 - 5.
New England Water Environment Association (NEWEA) Stormwater Conference May 7 - 8, Portsmouth,
NH
This workshop will focus on enhancing Stormwater Resilience through flood and disaster preparedness and
mitigation projects and will showcase projects, strategies, and case studies by public and private entities
preparing to effectively manage stormwater.
Meeting Schedule: It has not been determined if a second meeting will be held on March 22. Meetings for the
second quarter will be April 12, June 14, a May meeting date has not been determined. All meetings, unless
otherwise noted, are held at 6:30 p.m., in the Ritter Building, upper conference room.
Motion: J. Rodriquenz
To adjourn the meeting at 8:14 pm.
Respectfullly submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Member, BOS
2": M. Allison
Vote: All in Favor
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 1 " 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
