===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
application. He also had a telephone conversation with Mr. Harper at a later date. There is another RPR meeting on Wednesday,
April 18, at 10 a.m. at the Worcester DEP office that Ed will attend; Phyllis Luck will join him. There are many tasks that need to be
undertaken to get the 319 Grant application into DEP on time. Among them:
•
Letters of support from Town Agencies, Boards, Committees, State Representatives, etc. need to be solicited. Ed Himlan
will forward sample letters that may be used as models.
• Documents relating to the Grant application will need to be signed by Town Officials; Adam Burney will take on that
responsibility
• DCI representatives Mike Clark and Ed Himlan will set up a time to visit the proposed Healthy watersheds sites with
Department of Public Works (DPW) Director Rodriquenz, and determine Best Management Practices (BMP's) to be used;
conceptual designs will be needed for the application.
• There will need to be Riparian Protection and Greenway Plans submitted with the Grant application.
• Mike Clark will send a proposal for this work to Adam Burney, who will discuss it with the Town Manager upon her return
from vacation.
• Ed Himlan will email a draft narrative and scope of services to SWTF members on May 2, in advance of the May 3 SWTF
meeting at which this information will be reviewed.
There was also discussion around submittal of the Annual Report for the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit, due
May 1, which needs to be signed by the Town Manager. The Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition (CMRSWC) will release,
hopefully next week, a report on CMRS WC activities for 2017, which will be very helpful in preparing this report. Since the DP W
Director, who is responsible for submitting this report, was not in attendance, Phyllis Luck offered to reach out to him on this issue.
She will communicate that if he feels he needs DCI assistance, they have offered to help; he should contact them if that is the case.
Adam Burney provided an update of the Stormwater workshop at the CPTC Conference, held 3/17/18 at Holy Cross; he felt it was not
particularly useful, and provided no new information. However, he subsequently attended another workshop that provided
information about a State Initiative, similar to the Community Compact Grant, which deals with Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness
Assessments. There are 80 towns participating, and once the assessment has been completed, towns involved have the opportunity to
access grant funding, and are also better positioned for receipt of a variety of state grants. Adam will look into this further.
There was a brief discussion of the Earth Day event, sponsored by the 4H Club of Lunenburg, on Sunday, April 22, from 1 - 4, at
Wallis Park. Jack Rabbitt will bring a compost bin and rain barrel to the event. Phyllis will borrow the CMRSWC's Enviroscape and
encourage youngsters to interact and learn about the importance of how everyone can help to improve the health of the watershed
which directly impacts the health of our lakes and ponds. Phyllis will also bring a variety of printed educational materials. All SWTF
members are invited to participate in this event.
As Director Rodriquenz was absent, and since all other members have already attended and been exposed to the MRPC data collection
and cataloging application and are waiting for the DPW Director to carve out time to attend a briefing on this, there was no new
information to discuss. Thus, this agenda item was skipped.
Meeting Schedule for second quarter: May 3, May 17 (Matt Allison will Chair, Jack Rabbitt will be responsible for minutes), June 14.
Tentative schedule for third quarter: July 12, August 9, September 13.
RECEIVED & FILED
2nd. J. Rabbitt
Vote: All in Favor
APR 30 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Motion: M. Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 7:50 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Member, BOS
