===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Task Force members met to discuss reducing the membership of the Stormwater Task Force
from 5 to 3 members. The current membership includes one member each from Planning,
Conservation, and the Board of Selectmen (BOS), as well as the DPW Director and one citizen
at large. The Task Force has been unable to recruit a citizen; the Task Force has relied on all
four members being able to make all meetings. However, the Task Force has had issues with
achieving quorum when 2 members have been unavailable. DPW Director Rodriquenz has
indicated that the accelerated schedule of the Debt Exclusion Pavement Management Program
will take up even more of his time this spring, limiting his ability to participate. All agree that
DPW Director Rodriquenz' input is essential, therefore, Phyllis Luck met with Adam Burney,
who attends all Stormwater Task Force meetings in an advisory capacity, earlier in the day to
confirm that he will be the conduit between the Task Force and the DPW Director, bringing
needed information from the DPW Director to the Task Force and sharing input from the Task
Force with the DPW Director. After a brief discussion, Matt Allison made a motion to reduce
the membership of the Stormwater Task Force to three members, those members being one
member of the Conservation Commission, one member of the Planning Board, and one member
of the Board of Selectmen. Jack Rabbitt seconded the motion; all voted in favor. The Town
Manager and BOS Chairman Jamie Toale are in agreement with this change. This matter will
be placed on an upcoming BOS agenda.
Meeting Schedule: it was discussed that the Candidate Debate is this coming Thursday, May 3,
so the Task Force will move its meeting start to 5:45 and will revise the agenda to reduce the
number of items to be discussed. Further scheduled meetings include May 17, June 14.
Tentative schedule for third quarter: July 12, August 9, September 13.
Motion: M. Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 7:05 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Member, BOS
2nd: J. Rabbitt
Vote: All in Favor
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 07 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
