===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
There was a discussion on the Notice of Intent (NOI) for the 2018 Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) Permit, which had been reviewed at the September 4 Board of Selectmen's (BOS)
meeting. Jack Rabbitt made a motion to accept the NOI as presented; it was seconded by Phyllis Luck;
all voted in favor. Land Use Director Burney offered to bring the NOI to the Town Manager, with
whom this document had been previously reviewed in a meeting with Adam Burney and Phyllis Luck.
The Town Manager will need to sign this document; it will then be sent both electronically and in
paper copy to the appropriate entities. Adam Burney, working with the Design Consultants, Inc. (DCI)
will ensure that this happens in a timely manner to meet the September 29, 2018 deadline.
A discussion of the Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) ensued. It was shared that the BOS is
interested in the public meetings and review of the Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP), which plan
should be ready by October-November, according to Ed Himlan. Land Use Director Burney had
informed the BOS of this date and indicated the SWTF will be bringing the SWMP to them for review
after the first of the year. It was also pointed out by Consultant Mike Clark that the Town must
designate a SWMP Team Coordinator; this person would be charged with insuring that all tasks
outlined in the SWMP are carried out in a timely manner. Mike Clark offered that the Town Manager,
as the official who must sign the NOI as well as the annual report for the SWMP, would be the likely
choice. Adam Burney and Phyllis Luck will meet with Town Manager Lemieux to discuss this critical
role.
Regarding dates for task completion, it was shared that if a task is shown on the S WMP to be
completed in 2019, that actually means the task be completed by June 30, 2019, for inclusion in the
annual report to be submitted on September 29, 2019. This schedule of completion dates must be
followed throughout the life of the MS4 Permit for all actions completed to fulfill the Town's
obligations as outlined in that permit.
There was a review of Minimum Control Measure (MCM) 1, Public Outreach and Education. It was
determined that a minor change in terminology was required to insure that the SWMP's terminology is
consistent throughout.
There was a review of MCM 2, Public Involvement and Participation.. The first task to be completed
will be a survey to assess public attitudes, interests, and foster community participation in the Town's
SWMP. The survey will be posted on the Town's website and Town Facebook page in 2019 and
survey responses will be tracked. Ed Himlan provided a sample survey disseminated by the Town of
Harrison, New York. Ed also shared that he has engineered a simple display that the Town could use
as a model. Other Best Management Practices (BMP's) were briefly discussed.
===PAGE 2===
There was some discussion of Appendix H, Phosphorus. It was ascertained that measurable goals need
to be added. Also, it is a requirement that an immediate as well as annual message to be sent that
encourages the proper use and disposal of grass clippings and encourages the proper use of slow-
release and phosphorus-free fertilizers. Additionally, it is a requirement that in the first year of the
permit, outfalls must be ranked; this task is underway.
Adam Burney, who is responsible for updating the new SWIf website, is currently working on
updating the Planning Board website, and will use a similar approach to organize the s WIf site. It
was requested that he add the THINK BLUE MASSACHUSETTS link to the website as soon as
possible.
Land Use Director Burney is in discussions with the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission
(MRPC) regarding data management training assistance. He is also working with DP W Director
Rodriquenz to accomplish this important step of recording data in the field. The SWTF looks forward
to an update at its next meeting.
Jack Rabbitt reported that the outreach effort with the Hickory Hills Gardening Club was a huge
success. He will provide pictures of the event which may be added to the MS4 Annual Report as an
attachment.
Meeting Schedule for the fourth quarter: October 4 and 25; November 1 and 29; December 6. All
meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room.
Motion: J. Rabbitt
To adjourn the meeting at 8:14 pm.
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Member, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 28 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
