===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
when Jack Rabbitt is in attendance.
Phyllis Luck announced that the Town has been notified that Lunenburg's Proposal for FFY 2019
s.319 Nonpoint Source Competitive Grants Program, Mulpus Brook Healthy Watershed Project, was
not among those recommended to be funded this year. This will be put on the January 2019 meeting
agenda for discussion.
Adam Burney relayed that the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit Notice of Intent
(NOI) was received by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) on
September 26.
There was a review of Minimum Control Measure (MCM) 3, Illicit Discharge Detection and
Elimination (IDDE) Program. It was determined that the Town has the legal authority required under
the General Bylaws. Further, it was pointed out that the Sanitary Sewer System is fairly new, therefore
there are no issues with Sanitary Sewer System overflows. Mike Clark reported that he had met with
Department of Public Works (DPW) Director Rodriquenz earlier today and that the DPW Director had
requested a quote from Design Consultants, Incorporated (DCI), to complete the requirements of MCM
3. DCI's proposal will be received next week, according to Mike Clark. Adam Burney agreed to work
with DP W Director Rodriquenz on the details required to move this project forward.
There was a review of MCM 4, Construction Site Stormwater Runoff Control. Adam Burney reported
that the ordinances and procedures required as Best Management Practices (BMP's) in this section of
the MS4 Permit have already been incorporated in the Town's regulations. However, there may still be
a need for written procedures for site plan approval.
Land Use Director Burney is in discussions with the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission
(MRPC) regarding data management training assistance. He reported that the approximate cost of
required equipment, tablets, would be about $1,000; training would be provided at no cost. Although
several obstacles have been identified, he is continuing to work with DPW Director Rodriquenz to
accomplish this important step of electronically recording data in the field.
Phyllis Luck shared Town Meeting Warrant Article 17, which asks the Town to create a bylaw for the
reduction of plastic bags. There was a discussion on the issues caused by careless tossing of these
bags, which often clog stormwater drains, and make their way into rivers, lakes, streams, and oceans.
Matt Allison made a motion that the Stormwater Task Force support passage of this article at Town
Meeting; Phyllis Luck seconded, all voted in favor.
===PAGE 2===
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWIt
Member, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 28 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
