===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Phyllis Luck announced that Town Meeting Warrant Article 1/, which asked the own to create a
bylaw for the reduction of plastic bags, passed at Town Meeting on November 13, with SWIF support.
Minutes of the September 13 and October 25, 2018 meetings were reviewed and approved.
Ed Himlan passed out copies of the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit
Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) sections: Minimum Control Measure (MCM) 5, Post
Construction Stormwater Management in New Development and Redevelopment, Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit Part 2.3.6.; and MCM 6, Good Housekeeping and Pollution
Prevention for Permittee Owned Operations, Permit Part 2.3.7. It was noted that, for all Best
Management Practices (BMP's) in the SWMP, completion by year 1 means that the work must be
completed by June 29, 2019; completion by year 2 means work must be done by June 29, 2020, etc.
Although the completion dates are and will remain fixed, the SWMP may be altered over time where
improvements are deemed appropriate.
We began by reviewing MCM 5. Matt Allison pointed out that Town "Ordinances", should be replaced
with Town "Bylaws" where that appears.
• For the Best Management Practice (BMP) Post-Construction Ordinance, to be completed by
year 2, Adam Burney confirmed that this has been completed.
• For the BMPS: Street Design and Parking Lot Guidelines Report and Green Infrastructure
Report, which must be completed by year 4, the SWTF members agreed these should be
combined in one report and must be started in year 3.
• The next BMP requires identifications of five town properties that can be retrofitted to reduce
pollutant loads of discharges into and from MS4 infrastructure (including street right-of-ways,
outfalls, conventional conveyances and controls) as well as evaluation and ranking of retrofits
for control of stormwater discharges to first or second order streams, public swimming beaches,
water supply sources, water quality limited waters and other critical areas. The SWMP assigns
this task, which must be completed by year four, to the SWIF.
• For BMP: Stormwater Bylaw Performance Standards, which must be completed by year 2,
Town Bylaw Section 204-1E (2) must be modified and include Sections 204-1D (7) and 204-1F
as part of this SWMP. This will be done to reduce runoff volume and increase pollutant
removal.
The SWTF moved on to MCM 6, Good Housekeeping and Pollution Prevention for Permittee Owned
Operations, Permit Part 2.3.7.
• For BPM: Parks and Open Spaces Operations and Maintenance Procedures, it was discussed
that the Parks Commission should be added as a Responsible Party. This BMP calls for the
===PAGE 2===
• For BMP: Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance Procedures, written procedures
(electronic and hard copy) will be completed by year 2 for the maintenance of MS4
infrastructure, and upon completion, will be a part of the SWMP.
• For BMP: Catch Basin Cleaning Program, a written program (electronic and hard copy) to
optimize routine inspections, cleaning, and maintenance of town-owned catch basins will be
completed by year 1. Upon completion, this will become a part of the SWMP.
For BPM: Street Sweeping Program, sweeping procedures for town-owned streets and parking
lots, in accordance with Permit conditions, must be developed and implemented; a Town log of
street and parking sweeping activities must be maintained. This BPM must be completed in year
1
• For BMP: Winter Road Maintenance Program, a written program (electronic and hard copy) for
winter road maintenance, including procedures for the use and storage of sand and salt; and for
Town snow disposal activities must be completed by year 1.
• For BPM: Stormwater Treatment Structures Inspection and Maintenance Procedures, procedures
(electronic and hard copy) for the annual inspection and maintenance of town-owned
stormwater treatment structures including water quality swales, retention/detention basins,
infiltration structures and proprietary devices must be completed by year 1.
• For BMP: Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWPPP) must be prepared for each Town operated public works yard and other waste handling
facilities that are exposed to stormwater. Completion is required in year 2, and, when
completed, the SWPPP's will be separate and different documents form this SWMP.
• For BPM: Phosphorus Source Identification Report, a report will be prepared per requirements
in Part II of Appendix H for the MS4 Permit, which will include MS4 catchment delineations,
outfall screening and monitoring results, impervious area for target catchments, and
prioritization of potential catchments with high phosphorus loading; completion requirement by
year 4.
• For BPM Phosphorus Source Structural BMP's Listing, all Town-owned properties identified by
Phosphorus Source Identification Report for retrofit opportunities per requirements in Part II of
Appendix H for the MS4 Permit, will be evaluated, cost estimates to redevelop or retrofit BMP's
will be established, engineering/regulatory feasibility of redevelopment or retrofit will be
determined. Completion requirement of this BMP is year 5.
Following the discussion of MCM 5 and 6, it was noted that four of the BMP's in MCM 6, which
require a good deal of work to complete, must be completed by June 29, 2019. The logical next
question was "HOW is the Town going to get this done?" Ed Himlan, the consultant working with
Mike Clark of Design Consultants Inc. (DCI), said that he believes DCI is working, at the request of
DPW Director Rodriquenz, on a proposal to get some of this work done. Adam Burney, who is the
===PAGE 3===
BMP's in MCM 3 must be completed by year 1. We had been advised by Mike Clark, at the last
SWTF meeting, that he had met with DPW Director Rodriquenz on October 25 and that the DPW
Director had requested a quote from DCI to complete the requirements of MCM 3. At that time, Adam
Burney had agreed to work with DPW Director Rodriquenz on the details required to move this project
forward, however, Adam had no new information for this evening's meeting.
In the discussion of the Stormwater Survey, Ed Himlan suggested that we "begin with the end in mind"
and determine what we would put in a second survey, as this second effort will evaluate gains in public
knowledge of stormwater pollution and what they can do to prevent it. By identifying what we hope
they will learn, we may be guided to more succinctly create appropriate questions for the first survey.
Phyllis Luck had been made aware of potential requirements of bringing the Lunenburg Water District
into compliance with the MS4 Permit. Ed Himlan had no knowledge of such; Phyllis will go back to
the CMRSWC member who raised this issue for clarification.
Organization of the SWTF information to be posted to and stored in the SWTF Google Drive, it was
suggested that the SWMP headings be used as the organizational framework for this Google Drive.
Members agreed this made sense.
Meeting Schedule: December 20, 2018; January 29 (Tuesday), February 28, March 28. Should
additional meetings in the first quarter of 2019 be required, they will take place on the second Thursday
of the month. All meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held at 6:3 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper
conference room; meeting dates are Thursdays unless otherwise noted.
Motion: M. Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 8:42 pm.
2^d. J. Rabbitt
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWIF
Member, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 14 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
