===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Adam Burney shared 4 Public Education and Outreach messages (attached) he has been working on
with Ed Himlan, as part of the Year One contract for meeting the requirements of the Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit. The Minimum Control Measure (MCM) 1 Industrial
Message, including a 3 item survey, will be emailed to Lunenburg's Industrial business entities, as
defined by the Board of Assessors, by the end of May, 2019. The educational sheets, displaying a
photo of folks enjoying the Town Beach at Lake Whalom, entitled "Help keep our local waters clean
and healthy"
, were discussed. Task Force members felt that the picture and title should be boxed in,
with the individual subtitle displayed more prominently and in different colors, to more readily
distinguish that the sheets contain different information. The sheets with information on LAWNS &
LANDSCAPES and POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR INDUSTRIAL SITES, when ready, will be
posted on the SWTF website. The sheet, with a black & white photo of the same Lake Whalom Town
Beach scene, titled YOU CAN MAKE THE DIFFERENCE, will be mailed to all residents. Since this
Will be a separate mailing due to the fact that there will be no tax bills mailed between now and when
the information must be distributed, it was suggested that the compost bin/rain barrel information flyer
accompany this sheet, as it will not result in extra mailing cost to add another sheet.
Adam Burney also suggested that he reorganize the website so that information is more clearly labeled
and accessible.
The SWTF thanked Adam for his efforts.
Adam Burney indicated that when the Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) is ready, the S WMP
will be emailed to boards/committees that are anticipated to perform tasks required for compliance with
the MS4 Permit in Years 1 and 2, with a short note about the anticipated involvement of their
board/committee, as a "head's up".
Phyllis Luck reported that she had received an email from Town Manager Lemieux today indicating
that she is "still working on a sample RFP but would expect to have something finalized shortly so it
can be sent out in May with proposals due by first week of June. Interviews can be scheduled
immediately after so the award can be issued during June." She also indicated that if the SWIf wishes
to include other items in the REP, we should let her know so that those items may be included.
Adam Burney relayed that Mike Clark and Ed Himlan are finalizing the SWMP. He will reach out to
them to insure that it is ready to review at the May 23 SWTF meeting.
Adam Burney reported on the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition (CMRSWC) IDDE
training workshop held on 4/24/19 in Framingham, which he attended (DPW Director Rodriquenz was
unable to join him). He felt it was a very worthwhile event. The presenters suggested that it was
manageable to complete 25 - 30 outfall investigations per day, and that the testing of the outfalls with
dry weather flow should be done separately, as trying to combine the 2 would be cumbersome and less
efficient. When dry weather flow is detected, the key junction further back will be carefully inspected,
===PAGE 2===
information on stormwater pollution prevention!
Matt Allison reported that he'll reach out to Ed Himlan to discuss the survey he's working on, the focus
of which will be to ascertain how much information Town residents have about Stormwater Pollution
Prevention. This will be followed up by a second survey, in a year's time, so that the Town may
understand the effectiveness of its Public Education and Outreach efforts, as measuring the
effectiveness of these efforts is also a requirement of the MS4 Permit.
Phyllis Luck mentioned the EPA WEBINAR on May 14, 2019, which will be focused on the Town of
Ashland's three year effort to successfully create a Stormwater Utility/Enterprise Fund. She's sent the
information out to the BOS and Town Manager, as this information is important for Town officials to
understand
The SWTF discussed planning a report to be given at the November Town Meeting on the work of the
SWTF, as it wraps up its mission.
During the discussion on possible funding source options to recommend to the Town, Matt Allison
reported that Planning Board Member Paula Bertram offered to share the information she has on
Stormwater Utilities; the SWTF is looking forward to receiving this.
Meetings for the 2nd quarter will be May 23 and June 13. Suggested meetings for the 3*" quarter: July
25, August 22, September 12. All meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held on Thursdays at 6:30 pm,
in the Ritter Building, upper conference room. Should additional meetings be required, they will be
scheduled on the second or fourth Thursday of the month.
Motion:
To adjourn the meeting at 7:45 pm. Jack Rabbitt
2nd. M. Allison
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWIF
Member, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 28 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
