===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
evening. Town Manager Lemieux passed out copies of the Composite of Evaluation Scores, which
placed both firms as Highly Advantageous overall, with CEI receiving all Highly Advantageous and
Woodard and Curran receiving one Advantageous, with the remaining items scored Highly
Advantageous.
At 5:15, the SWTF welcomed CEI, thanking them for meeting with us. SWTF members had copies of
the Non-Price Proposal, as well as the Price Proposal (attached). Nick Cristofori and Rebecca Balke
proceeded to review CEl's proposal and qualifications, pointing out why they felt CEI was the best fit
for Lunenburg's needs. CEI finished up at 6 pm.
At 6:05, the SWTF welcomed Woodard and Curran, thanking them for coming in tonight. Scott
Medeiros and Zachary Henderson spoke to a power point presentation (attached), outlining their
proposal and why they, even though their price was likely much higher than the competition's, felt they
were the best fit for Lunenburg's needs.
At 7:25 pm, after all consultants had left the building, the Lunenburg group began discussing both
proposals. Matt Allison started the discussion by pointing out he felt that CEI, being a much smaller
firm, which did all of the work in-house and did not rely on subcontractors, was a better fit for
Lunenburg. There was general agreement.
The price differential between the two firms was substantial: Woodard and Curran came in at $127,
400; CEI at $32,400. Town Manager Lemieux felt that there may be additional costs associated with
working with CEI, as tasks may be added; and that the Woodard and Curran price could perhaps be
negotiated downward. However, the group felt that the initial difference was so substantial that it
would be more advantageous to accept the lower priced CEI proposal. It was noted that DCI, which
had initially bid on Year 2 work at the beginning of the calendar year, had a cost of $98,600 associated
with completing the required Year 2 tasks.
Matt Allison made a motion to authorize Town Manager Lemieux to award the Year 2 Contract to CEI
and to proceed with negotiations for additional work that may be required to assist the Town in its MS4
compliance efforts. Jack Rabbitt seconded, all voted in favor.
The group then focused on the CEI "Other Recommended Tasks" sheet. CEI Presenters had explained
that they were unsure if Lunenburg had completed the tasks listed on this sheet, so did not include them
in their proposal. However, these were tasks that could not be left undone, so worthy of note. The
group authorized Town Manager Lemieux to reach out to CEI to make them aware that they'd been
awarded the contract, and to then obtain pricing for other tasks the Town may decide to take care of in-
house, or, if the price proves advantageous, to have added to the CEI contract. These include:
• Regulatory Mechanism Assistance
Updating MCM 5, Post-Construction Stormwater Management; other updates as required.
These items are in the domain of the Land Use Director, he is interested in determining what the
cost would be to have this outsourced rather than completing the tasks in-house).
• Perform LID and GI review at the same time (in preparation for Year 4 work)
===PAGE 2===
wait.
• Other Tasks:
Catch basin cleaning optimization plan, Street Sweeping Plan, Winter Road Maintenance Plan
It is understood that these are already done.
Matt Allison then noted that the absence of the DPW Director at SWTF meetings inhibits progress and
wanted to raise the issue while the Town Manager was present. He requested that the Town Manager
ask DP W Director Rodriquenz to attend the next SWTF meeting to discuss the CEI contract and the
future involvement of DPW manpower and equipment to assist with Stormwater tasks. Further, he
asked that the DPW Director attend the first meeting with CEI. The Town Manager agreed to discuss
this with the DPW Director and exited the meeting.
As minutes approval had been omitted at the beginning of the meeting to allow for more time with the
guests, Matt Allison made a motion to accept the minutes of the June 13 meeting; Jack Rabbitt
seconded; all voted in favor.
It was determined that the next meeting of the SWTF would be on Thursday, August 1, at 6 pm, in the
Ritter upper conference room.
Meeting Schedule for the 3rd
quarter: August 1, September 12. All meetings, unless otherwise noted,
are held on Thursdays at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room. Should additional
meetings be required, they will be scheduled on the second or fourth Thursday of the month.
Motion:
2"': Matt Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 8:20 pm Jack Rabbitt
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Vice Chair, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 22 2019
LUNENBERG LOWV
CLERK OFFICE
