===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF) ATTACHMENTS! 
MINUTES 
January 10, 2019 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room. In attendance were 
Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt. Adam Burney, Land Use Director, was also in attendance. The 
meeting opened at 6:30 pm.   
 
Minutes of the November 27, 2018 meeting were reviewed and approved. 
 
Task Force Chair, Phyllis Luck, began the discussion on the Minimum Control Measures (MCM’s) by 
addressing the proposals for year one of the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit submitted 
by Design Consultants Inc. (DCI) and received by the SWTF yesterday.  Phyllis had spent the day reviewing the 
proposals, as well as the Cost Estimate sheets for the first 5 years of the MS4 Permit, which had been received 
by the SWTF on January 8. None of the others in attendance had had the opportunity to review the documents, 
due to their late arrival.  Therefore, all agreed that members needed additional time to actually review the 
documents prior to holding a meaningful discussion. Members agreed to review over the weekend and submit 
comments and questions to Adam Burney. There was some discussion on information in the proposals that was 
inconsistent; a possible cause mentioned was that these were simply typographical errors.  Further, a quick look 
at the Cost Estimate sheets seemed to put the 5 years costs beyond the Town’s budget capacity. The SWTF 
determined that it was timely to schedule a meeting with the Town Manager to discuss the proposals and Cost 
Estimate sheets. The meeting will define the scope of work required to fulfill the requirements of the MS4 
permit in more detail, specifically in the year one proposals, and review the Cost Estimate & Summary for the 
first Five Years of the permit. Phyllis Luck offered to reach out to the Town Manager to set up the meeting. She 
will advise possible times as soon as known.  Cost Estimate Sheets, as well as DCI proposals, are attached. 
 
The SWTF moved on to a review of the Open Space Committee’s draft update to the Town’s Open Space and 
Recreation Plan.  The document was praised by all in attendance and a vote was taken to write a letter of 
support, as requested by the Open Space Committee, to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Executive Office of Energy & Environmental Affairs , Division of Conservation Services . A second letter, 
praising the efforts of the Open Space Committee and thanking them for their efforts, was also supported.  Both 
letters were signed by all SWTF members, and are attached to these minutes. 
 
Phyllis Luck, after hearing some discussion at a Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition (CMRSWC) 
meeting on the status of Water Districts, outside of Tow n control, such as the Lunenburg Water District, had 
previously inquired of consultants, Mike Clark of DCI and Ed Himlan of the Massachusetts Watershed 
Coalition (MWC), if they had any knowledge of any specific requirements.  Since they had no knowledge of  
such, Phyllis went back to CMRSWC members and learned that the Water Districts are considered in the 
Industrial category, and that there are no other special requirements that have to be met. 
 
Meeting Schedule:  Possible meeting with Town Manager, date uncertain, January 29 (Tuesday), February 28, 
and March 28.  Should additional meetings in the first quarter of 2019 be required, they will take place on the 
second Thursday of the month.  All meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter 
Building, upper conference room; meeting dates are Thursdays unless otherwise noted. 
 
Motion: Jack Rabbitt        2nd: M. Allison 
To adjourn the meeting at 7:30 pm.                                                       Vote: All in Favor 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF 
Member, BOS 