===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Adam Burney reported that Consultant Ed Himlan of the Mass Watershed Coalition, who is working
on YEAR 1 projects associated with the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit, will
forward final copies of outreach material(s) on May 28; Adam will forward same to the S WTF.
Adam is currently working to collect email addresses of Lunenburg's industrial users (approximately
20). He is planning to disseminate public outreach and educational materials to that group, and to
include a link to a short Survey Monkey survey to obtain information about industrial users' knowledge
of stormwater and their associated responsibilities.
Adam informed the group that he has recently updated the SWTF website so that it is better organized.
Thanks, Adam!
Review of Stormwater Management (SWMP) plan was initiated:
• There was concern that the list of acronyms was difficult to read & that it should be
reformatted to increase legibility.
• There is no information under "Stormwater Team" about the SWTF. It was suggested that the
SWTF mission statement and membership be added.
• There was some confusion about when, exactly, items that referred to "2019", "2020", "2021",
"2022", "2023" completion are actually due. Some items specify completion date of June 30,
2019, so that aligns exactly with completion within Year 1. Since the completion years are
fiscal, rather than calendar years, it would be more appropriate to state YEAR 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5,
to avoid confusion about requirement completion dates. It may be helpful to include dates of
each year (eg: Year 2; July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2020) for maximum clarity.
• There was interest in updating the "table" that shows MS4 Permit requirements and the
associated year of implementation of BMP's; it was felt this should be added to the SWMP.
Adam offered to take this on.
• Adam agreed to reach out to Ed Himlan to have all the corrections made. Further, that he
would insure that the SWTF has the SWMP a few days in advance of the next meeting to allow
time for final review.
Matt Allison made a motion that the SWTF vote on the SWMP at the June 13 meeting; Jack Rabbitt
seconded; all voted in favor.
Update on Requests for Quotes (RFP's) for Year 2 tasks completion of requirements of MS4 Permit.
• Adam Burney relayed that he'd neglected to give the Town Manager the Year 2 requirements in
Minimum Control Measures (MCM's) 6, Good Housekeeping; he will do that ASAP.
• In Item f), it was suggested that "Recommendations" replace "Plan".
Matt Allison made a motion that the SWTF approve the requested changes to the RFP, Jack Rabbitt
seconded; all voted in favor. Phyllis offered to relay this information to the Town Manager.
===PAGE 2===
There was a brief discussion on the EPA Webinar, held 5/14, on creation of a Stormwater Utility that
was attended by Phyllis Luck. Phyllis reported that Rob St. Germain, Ashland Stormwater Committee
Chair, has volunteered to attend the Task Force's June 13, 2019 meeting, to share Ashland's journey to
successful creation of a Stormwater Utility.
As the hour was late, Matt Allison made a motion to postpone all other agenda items until the next
SWTF meeting, on June 13; Jack Rabbitt seconded; all voted in favor.
Meeting Schedule for 2nd
quarter: June 13. Suggested meetings for the 3rd
quarter: July 25, August 22,
and September 12. All meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held on Thursdays at 6:30 pm, in the
Ritter Building, upper conference room. Should additional meetings be required, they will be
scheduled on the second or fourth Thursday of the month.
Motion:
To adjourn the meeting at 8:30 pm. M. Allison
2nd. Jack Rabbitt
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Vice Chair, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 18 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
