===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Heather Lemieux had sent via email the Annual Report for the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) Permit, signed by her, dated September 18, 2019, earlier in the day; this was notification
to the SWTF that the Annual Report had been submitted, as required, on time (document attached).
Adam Burney will add this document to the SWTF website by the end of this month
Town Manager Lemieux forwarded earlier today, as requested, a link to copies of the Public Education
and Outreach materials (attached) forwarded earlier by Comprehensive Environmental Inc. (CEI), the
Town's Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) compliance consultant. SWTF members will
review these materials and will discuss usage of same at the next SWTF meeting.
Adam Burney reported that the MS4 compliance fall message has been posted on the SWTF website.
Phyllis asked that it also be placed in a more prominent setting, such as the Town's Facebook page.
Phyllis reported that this message has also been posted to the Lunenburg Bulletin Scroll on the local
cable access channel. Land Use Director Burney also reported that he'd updated the SWTF survey to
include a colored Town Logo stamp, and that he'd placed hard copies at the Senior Center, Town Hall,
and Library. Thus far, 19 persons have completed the survey on the SWTF's website. Phyllis asked
that this also be placed on the Town's Facebook page and on the Town's website, and feared that it will
remain "buried" if the only online access is via the SWTF's website. Phyllis will ask Town Manager
Lemieux to send out a Town Wide email to encourage recipients to fill out the survey online (or via
hard copy). The SWTF agreed that the survey should be available as a hand out at the November
Town Meeting. Phyllis will work with Adam Burney to insure this action is realized.
Adam Burney reported that one day of dry weather screening has been accomplished. Three days are
planned in Year Two, with six days planned in total for Years Two and Three combined, but the
amount of precipitation that has occurred this fall has made the Year Two goal difficult to achieve.
The SWTF discussed setting up a meeting with the Town Manager, Land Use Director, and DPW
Director to discuss projects planned and budget for Year Three. November 14 and November 21 from
5:30 to 7, will be targeted date options. Phyllis Luck will reach out to Town Personnel to try to make
this happen.
It was determined that it is premature to make a presentation to the November Town Meeting on MS4
Permit compliance. Several factors went into the decision, not the least of which is that the meeting is
on a weekday evening and attendees will want to move through the warrant articles as quickly as
possible. Further, the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition will have a presentation on the
creation of Stormwater Utilities/Enterprise Funds at its Annual Meeting on November 14. Several
communities which have passed such enabling legislation will provide information on lessons learned,
===PAGE 2===
To adjourn the meeting at /:10 pm
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Vice Chair, BOS
Vote: All in ravor
