===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Before beginning the discussion on the meeting with Design Consultants Inc. (DCI), Task Force Chair
Phyllis Luck asked if anyone present wanted to make a comment. Matt Allison asked the Town
Manager about the Stormwater budget within DPW. Ms. Lemieux stated that the $500,000 that was
included in the Pavement Management Debt Exclusion for Stormwater has been expended. Further,
that the DPW budget has line items, for drainage, catch basin cleaning, and other tasks associated with
stormwater mitigation practices. The Town Manager also stated that she had spoken with Town
Counsel Costa about the DCI proposal on Monday, and that she was waiting for those remarks to be
sent to her, when received, she'll pass the remarks on to the SWIF.
Phyllis Luck began the discussion on the DCI Proposal for YEAR ONE 2018-2019 Management, dated
February 11, 2019, by reporting on the recent meeting held February 4 with Design Consultants Inc.
(DCI) on their proposals for YEAR ONE of Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit,
dated December 14, 2018. During that February 4 meeting, it was discussed that the planning of work
for the next fiscal year should begin in November of the previous fiscal year. Ms. Luck now feels that,
since this planning for Year 1 had begun in November, and is still in process, that November,
unfortunately is too late and the discussions need to begin in September or October. At that February 4
meeting, DCI offered to submit one proposal to replace the two dated December 14, 2018 (received
January 2019). That replacement proposal, dated February 11, 2019, will be a part of this discussion.
It was noted that these substantial costs as outlined in the proposal and 5 Year Cost Estimator, include
engineering only, and no "shovel in the ground" work. All such actual work would need to be put out
to bid separately or completed by DPW personnel. Therefore, these costs are only one piece of the
whole picture. Comments on the Proposal follow:
Task 1 - Small MS Permit Cost Estimator, $2,500. The descriptor matches the discussion; however it
needs to be added that DCI agreed that updates to the Cost Estimator, over the 5 year span, will be at
no charge. Town Manager Lemieux indicated that DCI has agreed to put this in writing.
Task 2 - Public Education (MCM 1), will contain 3 targeted messages to be prepared, the descriptor
mentions only 2 targets, so the third needs to be clarified.
Task 3 - MCM 3 Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination (IDDE), describes a draft IDDE program
for $20,000, consisting basically of "written procedures to meet permit requirements" as well as
"development of a schedule to inspect each High and Low Outfall within the first 3 years of the permit.
IDDE work as proposed in the Cost Estimator for years 1 through 3 is quoted at $135,000, with another
$51,000 in years 4 and 5. Therefore, engineering work for IDDE, over the 5 years of the permit, is
estimated at $186,000.
Task 4 - MCM 6: Good Housekeeping $8,000. In this descriptor, DCI will develop inspection and
maintenance procedures for all municipal stormwater treatment structures (not including catch basins).
===PAGE 2===
DPW at $6,000. $6,000 is the same price spelled out in the Cost Estimator for DP W Meetings &
Coordination in each of Years 2 through 5, held throughout the year. Since this proposal is for 4
months, or 1/3 of a year, it was asked if the cost should reflect that shorter time period and be $2,000.
There was discussion that the proposal should be a "not to exceed"
', so the Town will not be charged
for more meetings than occur. Phyllis Luck felt the cost should be lowered in the proposal.
Task 7 - SWMP, draft, due February 2019, final due June 30, 2019 at a cost of $5,000. Town Manager
Lemieux reported that she'd been told by Mike Clark of DCI that the new due date is March.
SWTF Chair Luck requested that the SWTF have the opportunity to review DCI invoices. Town
Manager Lemieux replied that she has taken on the responsibility of overseeing the payment of the DCI
invoices, and that she has asked for more information to be included on the invoices and that she will
share those invoices with the SWTF. Ms. Luck thanked her for this.
The discussion then moved on to the Year 2 Cost Estimator; since the revised Year 2 Estimator had not
been received, the group focused on the Year 2 Estimator, dated 2/4/2019. Points of discussion follow.
The Annual report, the first under the new MS4 Permit is shown at a cost of $5,500. It was noted that
DCI prepared two prior Annual Reports at a cost of $2,000 and $2,200. Adam Burney relayed that the
consultants stated the new Annual Report was more comprehensive, and included more tasks, thus the
additional cost.
The Annual SWMP update is shown at $5,000; DCI was willing to look into this to see if it could be
lowered; the SWTF awaits receipt of the revised Estimator.
MCM3 IDDE program, engineering costs are $62,000 for Year 2, the SWTF awaits receipt of the
revised Estimator with details of tasks to be performed.
SWTF Meetings, if there are quarterly meetings, the cost should be much lower than $10,000; more
like $3,000.
Meetings and coordination DPW requires clarification of what is included in the $6,000.
The total cost, as per Estimator, is $107,600 for engineering work in Year 2; Adam Burney stated, that
in the discussion held on 2/4/19, that number was reduced to $98,600.
The high costs per the 5 Year Cost Estimator lead Task Force Chair Luck to suggest that additional
consulting firms be asked to submit bids on this work. It was agreed that the Town has no obligation to
===PAGE 3===
between he and the SWTF had deteriorated, and looked forward to working to improve this
relationship. He suggested that the SWTF offer to meet occasionally at the DPW building. He will
reach out to the DPW Director to see if that is of interest. Phyllis Luck read the quote from Governor
Baker included in that email: "Success is defined by that which we accomplish together." She agreed
that working together is the way we'll get something done for the Town, and hoped that DPW Director
Rodriquenz will rejoin the conversation.
The group then turned to the creation of a plan for the future entity that will replace the SWTF. It was
felt that this, as well as planning a report to be given to the November Town Meeting on the work of
the SWTF should wait for all Task Force members to be present for a meaningful discussion.
The Town Manager and Carl Luck left to attend the Finance Committee Meeting.
In the brief discussion on funding source options for fulfilling the mandates of the MS4 Permit, it was
determined there are basically 2: funding within the budget or creating a Stormwater Utility or
Enterprise Fund.
The group then turned to the organization of a Spring Town Clean-up. It was felt that starting small,
such as an area near one of the Town's lakes, might be a good way to get this effort off the ground.
Reservoir Road and the Whalom lake front were 2 suggestions. Adam Burney felt that DPW Director
Rodriquenz should be contacted ASAP to see if such was achievable for this year.
It was determined that the next scheduled meeting will be March 28 at 6:00 pm. Meetings for the 2nd
quarter will be April 25, May 23, and June 13. Possible meeting with Town Manager, date uncertain.
All meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held on Thursdays at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper
conterence room. Should additional meetings be required, they will be scheduled on the second
Thursday of the month.
Motion: M. Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 7:15.
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Member, BOS
2*: Phyllis Luck
Vote: All in Favor
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 0 4 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
