===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Heather Lemieux had sent via email the Annual Report for the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) Permit, Draft (attached), earlier in the day. This draft had been supplied by the
consultant hired to finalize the Annual Report for YEAR 1, Comprehensive Environmental Inc. (CEI),
project lead, Nick Cristofori
A discussion ensued concerning the draft. Adam Burney had noted that on page 3, "Annual training to
employees involved in an IDDE (Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination) program" had been left
unchecked; however, Adam had participated in a training held by the Central Mass Stormwater
Coalition (CMSWC), so he'd reached out to Nick to have this corrected, as well as the information
concerning training included on page 4, and a further mention of IDDE training on page 13.
All present were very pleased with the quality of the Annual Report; DP W Director Rodriquenz
commented that Nick Cristofori had been very communicative and responsive during the process.
When the few minor corrections have been completed, CEI will forward the Annual Report to the
Town Manager, who will sign the report, so that it may be submitted to DEP/EPA in a timely fashion,
prior to the September 30 deadline.
In response to Adam Burney's suggestion at the August SWTF meeting, Phyllis Luck volunteered, at
the last CMSWC Steering Committee meeting, to have Lunenburg host the MS4 Permit YEAR 2
required IDDE training. The Steering Committee was familiar with the suggested location, the large
meeting room at the Lunenburg Public Library, as Lunenburg had hosted a Steering Committee
Meeting there, so was very receptive to the offer. Phyllis will reach out to the Library to find suitable
dates in April 2020 for this training. Having the training local will allow the DPW to have more
personnel trained, and at no cost to the Town!
Phyllis Luck reported on the Statewide Stormwater Coalition meeting held on 8/1/19. All present
viewed the EPA Webinar on the submittal of the Year 1 Annual Report for the MS4 Permit. Newton
Tedder went through the Keport, due September 30, 2019. He described the Annual Report as a
"snapshot" of each community's efforts to comply with the YEAR 1 requirements of the MS4 Permit.
His advice was "tell the truth". If there is a YEAR 1 requirement your community has not yet
completed, say so, explaining why not and when it will be completed. He recommended that all
Annual Report information be placed on each community's website, and that the web address where
Annual Report documents are stored be listed, rather than attaching them to the Annual Report. The
webinar, and FAQ's, will be placed on the EPA website.
It was discussed that the Standard Operation Procedures (SOP) workshop in in the works.
All were reminded that the "Rubber Ducky" video has been redone; it is now available for
communities to put up on PAC and websites. It does take about 30 minutes to download.
It was announced that the CMRSWC had been selected as a recipient of the EPA New England
Environmental Merit Award, which was awarded in a ceremony at Faneuil Hall On September 10. The
next meeting of the CMRSWC will be October 8, at 10 a.m., at the DEP, Worcester, office.
===PAGE 2===
(Senior Center, Town Hall, Conservation Commission Office, other?).
Matt Allison announced that there will be Pumpkin Carving at 7 pm on October 18, at the Senior
Center; perhaps that will be a good opportunity to have the stormwater survey available as it will be
another opportunity for outreach.
In discussing the next SWTF meeting, it was determined that this will be the opportunity to prepare a
slide show for Town Meeting; all attendees are encouraged to bring their ideas for the November Town
Meeting presentation to this meeting.
Members had delayed minutes' approval to the end of the meeting. There were motions made by Matt
Allison to approve the June 13, August 1, and August 15 meeting minutes; motions were seconded by
Phyllis Luck, all voted in favor.
Meeting Schedule for the 4'*
quarter: October 24, November 14, and December 12. All meetings,
unless otherwise noted, are held on Thursdays at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference
room. Should additional meetings be required, they will be scheduled on the second or fourth
Thursday of the month.
Motion: Matt Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 7:15 pm
2nd. Phyllis Luck
Vote: All in Favor
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Vice Chair, BOS
OCT 28 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
