===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Task Force Chair, Phyllis Luck, began the discussion by reviewing the recent meetings held on the Design
Consultants Inc. (DCI) proposals for YEAR ONE of Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Permit
and the 5 year Cost Estimator. These documents are attached.
The minutes of the January 16, 2019 meeting summarized that meeting.
The meeting of January 23, which was attended by Town Manager Lemieux, Director of Public Works (DP W)
Director Rodriquenz, Land Use Director Adam Burney, and SWTF Chair Phyllis Luck, was discussed. This
meeting was to review the DCI proposals and 5 Year Cost Estimator. There were many questions on the
proposals and estimator that could not be answered; consensus was that the upcoming face to face meeting with
the contractors was needed to sort this all out. All agreed the cost of the proposals for YEAR ONE was too
high, the Town Manager asserted that the cost had to be reduced from $74,000 to $50,000. Town Officials felt
that the funds allocated for Public Outreach and Education should be eliminated, and that the all-volunteer
Stormwater Task Force should assume the burden of the requirements of MS4 Permit Minimum Control
Measures (MCM's) One and Two which call out specific tasks that must be undertaken. The Task Force Chair
looked for other opportunities to scale back the costs, such as reducing the $12,150 set aside for Consultants
interacting with the Task Force, by reducing the number of meetings to be held between now and June 30 from
10 to significantly less. The Task Force Chair also suggested that the Consultant be asked to articulate the items
lere was nothing else in the proposals or Cost Beymatar that could be reduced, save the Public Outreach and
Education dollars.
The DPW Director then stated that the SWTF had done "nothing" to create a Stormwater Utility in the three
years of the SWTF's existence. The Town Manager requested that this topic be addressed at the next SWTF
meeting
The status of completion of the Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP), was briefly discussed. Our collective
recollection is that DCI/Massachusetts Watershed Coalition (MWC), the consulting partners with whom the
Town has been working, were going to provide a draft documents to the SWTF in January, so that it could be
reviewed by the SWTF, then the Town Manager, for any revisions needed. It would then be presented to other
Town entities that have a role and responsibility for meeting requirements of the MS4 Permit, such as the Board
of Health, Planning Board, Conservation Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, and the entity that will
assume the role now played by the SWTF, if/when known. Responsibilities of each entity under the provisions
of the Permit will be discussed and evaluated and, hopefully, meet with the approval of those entities, and
further revision will not be needed.
The Five Year Cost Estimator was then discussed. There were many questions that no one could answer. For
example, in the YEAR 1 Estimator, Task #2 calls out an Annual Report for $5,500. In reviewing the contract
dated March 21, 2017, the preparation of the 2016-17 Annual Report was quoted at a cost of $2,000. On May
1, 2018, the preparation of the 2017-2018 Annual Report was quoted at $2,200. What has caused the cost to
more than double?
Task #3 calls for Annual Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) Update at $5,000. Task 11 call for SWMP at
$5,000. There appears to be redundancy in these items.
===PAGE 2===
All agreed that is what the SWTF has been working on since inception, in January 2016. The SWMP which is
very close to being ready, as discussed above, is the fruit of that labor.
"provides a storm and surface water system that controls damage from storms, protects surface water quality
and protects the environment".
All agreed it is our fondest hope that the SWMP will accomplish that.
"The plan shall determine which local agency or agencies will be responsible for implementation, establish the
estimated cost of the program,"
Again, it is articulated in the SWMP, which agencies are responsible for implementation of the requirements of
the MS4.
The Five Year Cost Estimator, provided by DCI, has given the Town an estimate of the costs, which costs all
agree the Town should try to reduce, as they exceed the Town's ability to pay.
"as well as provide for the creation of an ongoing funding source to enable its success. "
The SWTF acknowledges it has not had the time to begin the investigation of possible funding sources. Land
Use Director Burney asked that it be included in the record that he is opposed to, and questions the legality of,
using monies from Host Community Agreements with Marijuana Establishments to fund compliance with the
Phase II Permit, or any other operating expense. The SWTF has begun to discuss the transition of this work
from the volunteer SWTF to a more formal Town entity. The SWTF agreed to begin, at its next meeting, a
discussion on:
Creating a plan for the future entity which will replace the SWTF
• Delivering a report to the November Town Meeting on the work of the SWTF
• Recommendations
• An array of funding source options
SWTF members expressed an interest in setting up a meeting with the Town Manager; all agreed that a focused
discussion prior to such a meeting will be essential to its success.
Meeting Schedule: January 30, February 28, and March 28. Possible meeting with Town Manager, date
uncertain. Should additional meetings in the first quarter of 2019 be required, they will take place on the
second Thursday of the month. All meetings, unless otherwise noted, are held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter
Building, upper conference room; meeting dates are Thursdays unless otherwise noted.
Motion: M. Allison
To adjourn the meeting at 8:51 pm.
2nd. Jack Rabbitt
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF
Member, BOS
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 0 4 2019
LUNG INN
:
