===PAGE 1===
1 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Stormwater Task Force – Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, March 23, 2021 
 
7:03 PM CALL TO ORDER   
The Stormwater Task Force met via ZOOM. In attendance were Todd Dwyer (Select Board representative), 
Jack Rabbitt (Conservation), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Heather Lemieux (Town Manager, Nick 
Cristoforia (CEI representative), Rob Oliver (DPW), and Matt Allison  
 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT  
- PUBLIC  
No Comment. 
- COMMITTEE 
Jack proposes increasing the size of the committee from 3 to 5 members, but the 
majority of members agree to continue with a 3-member committee. 
  
II. REORGANIZATION OF THE COMMITTEE 
A new Chair needs to be appointed since Phyllis Luck is no longer with the committee.  
M. Allison shares that he just wants to be an attendee due to other obligations, but he is willing to fill in 
for the time being. 
  
Nominations  
T. Dwyer nominates J. Rabbitt for Chair - Seconded by M. Allison. 
J. Rabbitt nominates M. Allison for Vice-Chair - Seconded by T. Dwyer. 
J. Rabbitt nominates T. Dwyer for Clerk- Seconded by M. Allison. 
  
III. APPOINTMENTS   
7:05 PM Meeting with CEI to hear updates on tasks associated with the MS4 Permit.   
 
Year 2 assignments for the MS4 Permit: 
- Stormwater pollution prevention plan - old landfill is storing catch basin cleaning and street 
sweeping materials. There needs to be a plan for prevention.  
- Dry weather screens for outfall started but will continue into year 3. 
- Need to prepare an operation and maintenance plan that addresses parks and open space that is 
exposed to stormwater. R. Oliver is currently reviewing. 
- Develop facility inventory for town-owned properties.  
 
Task 1. The annual report is submitted every September. 
- Need to report anything that was/ wasn’t done and why.  
- J. Rabbitt inquires to R. Oliver as to where all the annual reports are being stored All reports 
are stored on the committee webpage and EPA website.  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Task 2. Progress report to be submitted to EPA for IDDE plan to track progress. The report will be submitted 
in June to reflect all dry weather screens and mapping. 
                     
Task 3. Nutrient removal from existing stormwater BMPs including infiltration basins, detention ponds, and 
bioretention gardens. The BAT tool (BMP assessment and tracking tool) is being implemented. This task is 
almost complete. 
 
Task 4. Annual stormwater BMPs inspection – evaluate to see if maintenance is required. A brief 
memorandum will be submitted.  
 
Task 5. Dry weather outfall sampling - There are 369 known stormwater outfalls that need to be inspected 
during dry weather flow. Of those 369 there are 57 outfalls that have been unable to access/locate. N. 
Cristoforia suggests allowing CEI to use the budget to try to locate these outfalls. Due to input from H. 
Lemieux -money needs to be spent by this fiscal year. J. Rabbitt motions to approve the budget- Seconded by 
M. Allison. 
 
Task 6. Regulatory mechanism assistance – 
Phase 1- the first application under the new bylaws is being presented to the planning board.  
Phase 2- includes a review of site plans, subdivision regulations, and zoning regulations. This phase 
has been started but is not due until the end of next June. 
  
Task 7. Meetings- are being held regularly and there have been no issues.  
 
Task 8. Develop options for funding in order for the task force to educate the public and public outreach. This 
includes hosting a workshop. (This task is optional and would need authorization and notice to proceed.) 
 
Task 9. Stormwater utility feasibility study – Introductory study on stormwater utility and prevention in order 
to develop stormwater utilities. This is a multi-year phased approach. (This task is optional and would need 
authorization and notice to proceed.) 
 
Task 10. IDDE training - CEI offers in-person training that costs 2 thousand or can be done free of charge via 
an online training video. Motion by M. Allison to use that money for outfall sampling as opposed to in-
person training, seconded by T. Dwyer. 
  
Recommendation for next year includes: 
-  Annual report to be submitted in September.  
- An updated stormwater management plan and IDDE plan. 
-  Stormwater BMP inspections completed. 
- Low impact development in green infrastructure regulatory assessment due by end of next year 
(This task has been started)  
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Year 3 tasks include:  
- Communities need to look at municipal properties and develop opportunities for retrofitting 
them with stormwater BMPs. It is required that there needs to be at least 5 different locations in 
town to be retrofitted to treat stormwater with a focus on phosphorus.  
- Groundwork for pre-conceptual or conceptual level designs needs to be laid. 
- Phosphorus source identification report for Nashua River – including watershed and running 
calculation to see which outfalls are contributing most phosphorus.  
o Design and build a stormwater BMP as a demonstration project with a watershed.  
(Required)  
 
IV. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE  
Committee would like to have meeting prior to the annual town meeting in May.  
 
V. NEXT MEETING 
Based on previous meetings this committee will be held monthly. The next meeting is scheduled for April 
21, 2021, at 7 PM. 
 
Action items for the next meeting:  
- Community outreach – includes the Farmers Market starting in June and concluding in 
October. 
- Update based on Nicks’ list. 
- Draft a library regulation based on some local area towns. 
- Find funding resources.  
 
  
VI.  ADJOURNMENT  
 Motion by M. Allison– Seconded by A. Burney to adjourn the meeting at 8:20PM.  
 