===PAGE 1===
Stormwater Task Force Meeting Minutes 
April 20, 2023 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Call to order at 7:03 PM 
Agenda 
1. Open Meeting & Roll Call 7:03 PM 
John Beale (Member), Bill Bernard (DPW), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), 
Matt Proctor (Member), Amanda Reid (Planning Board), and Richard Tremblay 
(Chair). 
2. Public Comment 
No public comment. 
3. Review & Approve Minutes 
Motion by Matt Proctor to approve minutes from February 16, 2023, seconded 
by John Beale.  
4. Task Force Member Updates 
As discussed at a prior meeting Richard Tremblay has reviewed the Central Mass 
Stormwater website and found numerous resources and helpful information. This 
includes a project partners list and a list of current projects that are underway or 
have already been completed.  There is also a website 
thinkbluemassachusetts.org that has information under the Stormwater tab. 
Adam Burney has looked into creating a Sharefile account as there has been 
interest in prior meetings. This will contain reading materials and files related to 
stormwater. Adam Burney and Richard Tremblay will work on the next steps to 
get this created.  
5. DPW Director Update on Data Collection 
Bill Bernard has started data collection today, April 20, 2023, related to 
stormwater tasks being completed by the DPW. Data collection will be taking 
place 5 days a week for approximately 2 months. Android devices and GPS units 
are collecting invert elevation, conditions of pipes, and catch basin information. 
Once data is collected there will be the mapping of the pipes from one catch 
basin to the outfall or catch basin to the manhole.  An essential part of collecting 
===PAGE 2===
data is mapping drainage situations to determine where the pipes go and which 
way the water is flowing. 
6. Ongoing Items 
Asset Management Grant 
Bill Bernard has sent out numerous spreadsheets to the task force regarding cost 
expenditures related to stormwater through the end of March. 
A foreman has started to use the street sweeper on a daily basis and a new 
equipment operator was also hired so now street sweeping and catch basin 
cleaning can happen simultaneously. The goal is to clean 25% of the roads with 
the street sweeper and clean 25% of the catch basins.    
Demonstration Structural BMP Project 
CEI has looked at the high school and found numerous location options for this 
structure. Aerial surveying with a drone as well as ground surveying has been 
completed. The superintendent at the high school has signed off and is on board. 
Bill Bernard received an adjusted cost for the rain garden and will bring 
estimated numbers to the next meeting.   
In regard to installation, the DPW can do the excavation of the land, and students 
from the horticulture classes will do the installation and help with upkeep.  Bill 
has created a sketch of a concept design with an aerial view. This project is 
scheduled to be completed by the fall. 
Bill Bernard has reviewed the MS4 tools and resources section and found a lot of 
training that is available. There is also an Excel spreadsheet that helps build a 
stormwater utility available on the MS4 website.  
7. Items for Next Meeting 
After the elections on May 20th, the group will meet, and an additional member 
will take a spot on the Stormwater Task Force Board. 
 
8. Next Meeting Dates 
May 18, at 7 PM. 
9. Public Comment 
No public comment. 
10. Adjourn 
Motion to adjourn at 7:34 PM by John Beale, seconded by Matt Proctor. 