===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force Minutes 
January 18, 2024 
 
Dept. of Public Works Building 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Present Members: Chair Timothy Willsmer, Member John Beale, DPW Director Bill Bernard, 
Selectboard Representative Renee Emkey 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
I. BOARD DISCUSSION 
- Review of materials provided by Chelmsford Storm Water Utility  
Unlike Lunenburg, Chelmsford includes a flat annual fee that’s added to 
resident’s sewer bill specifically for stormwater utilities. Tim Willsmer 
suggests this may be the simplest way to go.  
The committee will reach out to the Town Manager for additional input. 
- MA Asset management grant, next steps. 
Tim Willsmer has the following questions for the committee: 
o What are the steps for funding?   
o What is needed to start an enterprise fund? 
o How do we assess fees? 
o What are associated costs? 
o Will funding be used for hiring additional personnel?  
 
Bill Bernard confirms that there are community compact grants that may be 
applicable. 
Renee Emkey believes that the task force should reach out to the Town 
Manager for information about the process and next steps regarding funding.  
Renee Emkey also questions if CEI has worked with other towns to 
implement stormwater utilities.  Bill Bernard confirms that CEI does have 
that experience. 
The ultimate goal of the task force is to have something to provide for the 
2025 town meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
John Beale questions if there is anything that residents can do to be 
proactive. Bill Bernard states that specifically Chelmsford has a stormwater 
BMP. If there is an operation and maintenance plan, then residents get a 
discount on their rates yearly. This would then need to add additional 
personnel to complete assessments. Regarding information for residents, 
Bill Bernard confirms that there is stormwater related information available 
on the DPW Facebook page.  
II. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
The committee is requesting CEI attend an upcoming meeting for a discussion and 
to answer questions. After, if there are still unanswered questions then the 
Committee will reach out to the Town Manager for guidance.  
There was an inquiry by the task force regarding the approval of meeting minutes. 
This topic will be added to the agenda for the next meeting.  
The next meeting is scheduled for February 15th at 7:00 PM at the Lunenburg DPW 
building. 
III. PUBLIC COMMENT 
Karen Menard- 672 Page Street- spoke regarding the flooding on Page Street and 
subsequently in her basement. There is damage being caused to properties, Beaver 
Brook, and the road. The Village of Flat Hill has a stormwater retention pond that 
hasn’t been maintained and is not working properly.  There are private sump pumps 
and stormwater draining directly into the storm water system.  The drains were 
cleaned after the storm on September 11. Ultimately Karen Menard doesn’t agree 
that the systems are working properly and that there is something else causing the 
issue. Karen Menard has talked to Bill Bernard on numerous occasions. Bill Bernard 
puts emphasis on this is why the town needs stormwater utilities. Renee Emkey 
asks if the issues have come before the Select Board. Karen Menard states this is a 
complicated issue because the town doesn’t own the nearby property as it’s part of 
a HOA. 
Renee Emkey questions if sump pumps are allowed to discharge onto the roads. Bill 
Bernard confirms that shouldn’t be happening. 
IV . ADJOURN 
Motion to adjourn meeting by Renee Emkey, seconded by John Beale. All in favor.  
The meeting closed at 7:53 PM. 
 