===PAGE 1===
Stormwater Task Force 
January 18th 
7p.m. 
AGENDA 
520 Chase Road Lunenburg  
Department of Public Works 
 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are  those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought 
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
The following information is provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate 
Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87105822576 
or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID:  871 0582 2576. If you have not registered with 
Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone 
users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand”feature to request to 
speak. This meeting/hearing will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are  
welcome to attend this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided 
as a courtesy to the public, the meeting/hearing will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt  the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should 
make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
 
7:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
 
I. BOARD DISCUSSION 
 Review of materials provided by Chelmsford Storm Water Utility  
 MA Asset management grant, next steps. 
 
II. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 7:p.m.  All Board Meetings are held at Lunenburg DPW unless otherwise indicated 
 February 15th 
 
III. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
IV. ADJOURN 
 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per speaker except at th e discretion of 
the Chairperson 
 