===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force 
April 18, 2024 
Dept. of Public Works Building 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Members present: Chair Tim Willsmer, Vice Chair Jenny Pewtherer, Member John Beale, 
DPW Director Bill Bernard, Select Board Representative Renee Emkey 
7:00 PM CALL TO ORDER 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no public comments. 
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
There were no announcements. 
 
III. BOARD DISCUSSION 
Appointment of Vice Chair 
  Renee Emkey nominated Jenny Pewtherer for Vice Chair, seconded by John     
 Beale.   
Outreach Outline 
  John Beale provided a basic outline and started a PowerPoint presentation. 
There will be some educational updates provided at the annual Town Meeting 
in 2025. The information will be on the last page of the town booklet that goes 
out to every resident. 
Nick Cristofori from CEI and Bill Bernard came up with an estimated monthly 
payment of 1400 per resident. There are roughly 4,000 residents and 
between 130 and 150 commercial properties in town. 
Renee Emkey wants to continue to provide information on social media and 
on the town website.  
Tim Willsmer questions if anything can be done if stormwater retention 
ponds aren’t being maintained. He wants to know if any fines can be 
imposed on residents who are not completing maintenance. Jenny Pewtherer 
wonders if there is anything in the order of conditions put into effect when 
the property was built. Tim Willsmer states if it’s not maintained and flows 
onto the road it will then be a town problem. He asks Bill Bernard if we can 
pinpoint where issues are coming from. Bill Bernard states that for all new 
construction over an acre the Planning Board requires a stormwater BMP. 
This information needs to be submitted to the Planning Board. 
===PAGE 2===
There will be discussion at an upcoming meeting to decide what Committees 
and Boards would be ideal to meet with to discuss the creation of a 
stormwater plan. 
Tim Willsmer will provide a brief update at the next Planning Board meeting. 
The Task Force will continue to research and plan for community outreach. 
Additionally, John Beale will continue working on his PowerPoint 
presentation. 
                      CEI comments 
  The Task Force will request Nick Cristofori from CEI to come and give a 
 presentation to the Select Board relating to creating a stormwater plan.   
Bill Bernard will discuss with Nick Cristofori to determine if $100 per resident 
will be an adequate amount. 
IV . MEETING MINUTES: 3/27/23 
  There was a motion to accept the minutes from the March 27th meeting with minor 
 adjustments by John Beale, seconded by Renee Emkey. All in favor. 
    V . ONGOING BUSINESS 
  Highschool BMP 
   The School Committee requested Bill Bernard come to their next meeting in  
  May to present the BMP project. 
   VI. UPCOMING EVENTS 
May 16th at 7:00 PM will be the next scheduled meeting. 
   VII. ADJOURN 
There was a motion to adjourn by John Beale, seconded by Renee Emkey. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 8:15 PM.  
 