===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force Minutes 
March 27, 2024 
 
Dept. of Public Works Building 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Members present: Chair Tim Willsmer, Member John Beale, DPW Director Bill Bernard, 
Select Board Representative Renee Emkey, Conservation Commission Representative 
Jenny Pewtherer. 
CALL TO ORDER 
 The meeting opened at 7:00PM. 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 There was no public comment. 
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 There were no announcements.  
 
III. BOARD DISCUSSION 
Appointment of Vice Chair 
 The Task Force wants to appoint a new Vice Chair but wants to wait until the 
 new member is present. 
Thoughts/Notes from CEI presentation 
 In general, the Task Force members felt the presentation was very 
 informative.  
 Tim Willsmer compared data with other towns and the presentation seemed 
 reasonable. 
     Chapter 90 Funding 
 Bill Bernard defined Chapter 90 funding as monies that the state gives to the 
 town for repair and maintenance of town roads and drainage.  
  Bill Bernard has put in a request for projects on 4 roads totaling $700,000. 
 Renee Emkey states that even though there is over 2 million dollars in 
 Chapter 90 funding that still is not even close enough to cover everything that 
 needs to be done. 
 Tim Willsmer says ideally at some point we could use Chapter 90 funding 
 towards stormwater purchases/projects. 
===PAGE 2===
 Bill Bernard confirms that funding for FY 2025 will be used toward drainage  
  swales on Reservoir Road and multiple drainage improvements.  
 Renee Emkey asks if there is any other equipment needed for the   
  department. Bill Bernard states there is 1 more dump truck in the capital  
  funding for next year. FY 26 also has a mini excavator with trailer that will be  
  used almost exclusively for stormwater related purposes. Bill Bernard states  
  an option to purchase equipment would be to take out a loan then just pay  
  that loan. 
Bill Bernard has created a 1-year preliminary budget to share with the Task Force. 
 The budget includes: 
- A $50,000 expense for engineering small audits with CEI 
- 3 new personnel 
Renee Emkey asks if the budget includes health insurance and 
benefits. Bill Bernard confirms that’s the case and the numbers are 
only a guess.  
- There is a stormwater line item for this year totaling $141,000 and currently 
$86,000 has already been spent. 
- There is a drainage line item for this year totaling $60,000 and currently 
$59,000 has been spent. 
- There is a line item estimated for labor. In 2023 approximately $22,000 was 
spent on labor. 
Tim Willsmer questions what the 1 big project and the 2 small projects are listed on  
 the budget. Bill Bernard states the big project would be the repairs on Flat Hill 
 and Page Street and that is estimated around $200,000 and the 2 smaller projects 
 would  roughly be around $50,000 and that could replace a pipe or 2. 
Renee Emkey wants to confirm that to get a stormwater utility going its roughly 1.1 
million for the first year. After the first year it decreases down to $800,000 to  
$900,000 annually. Bill Bernard confirms that is the case and this is a best guess. 
John Beale asks what is in the town budget that is now used for utilities. Bill Bernard 
states there are a couple lines for stormwater under the DPW.  
Tim Willsmer questions if Bill Bernard has any knowledge about how many and how 
big the parking lots are that we have in town. This information will be needed for 
assessment to determine the payment amount. Bill Bernard will ask Nick from CEI 
about impervious surfaces at businesses and the assessments.  
  
 
===PAGE 3===
Tim Willsmer discussed potential next steps to move towards a stormwater plan. 
 Some next steps include: 
- Writing up bylaws and specifications. 
- Turn over what kind of footprint the businesses in town have over to CEI. 
 
IV. MEETING MINUTES 
There was a motion to approve the minutes from the meetings on 12/28/23, 
1/18/24, and 2/22/24 by John Beale, seconded by Renee Emkey. Roll call 
vote. Jenny Pewtherer aye, Renee Emkey aye, John Beale aye, Tim Willsmer 
aye. 
          V . ONGOING BUSINESS 
  Middle/High stormwater garden 
Bill Bernard is looking at late June once school is over to start the project. The 
plans are completed and printed. 
John Beale states there is a lot of drainage coming in from other areas that 
are bypassing the proposed location. John Beale questions if it makes more 
sense to try to filter the water to a different location before it goes 
downstream. Bill Bernard will run this idea by Nick from CEI. 
       VI. ITEMS FOR NEXT MEETING 
When/how to start public outreach 
John Beale put together an outline of what could be presented to the public 
to educate residents. The document was sent to the Task Force members for 
suggestions. 
The Task Force is requesting information about how many residents are in 
town.  
An additional aspect of the MS4 permit includes surveying, street sweeping, 
a lot of reporting, and the best management practices demo at the 
middle/high school. 
Upcoming proposed larger projects include Flat Hill/Page Street and West 
Townend Road/New West Townend Road. 
John Beale asks if it is part of the MS4 permit to have outflow from 
stormwater monitored. Bill Bernard confirms stormwater outflows are 
monitored. 
===PAGE 4===
        VII. UPCOMING EVENTS 
 The next meeting is scheduled for April 18th at 7:00 PM. All Task Force meeting 
 are held at the Lunenburg DPW unless otherwise indicated. 
       VIII. ADJOURN 
 There was a motion to adjourn by John Beale, seconded by Renee Emkey. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 7:55 PM. 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per 
speaker except at the discretion of the Chairperson. 