===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS 3000 
 
INCOME 3200 
 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES ACCOUNTS 3201 
 
A program of co-curricular activities established by the School Committee should provide 
efficient procedures for their creation, operation, and demise; and should outline a system for 
the safeguarding, accounting, and internal control of extra-classroom activity funds. 
 
Model MASC Policy Language: 
The funds shall be only for the benefit of students and managed in accordance with sound 
business practices, which include accepted budgetary, accounting, and internal control 
practices. 
 
Authorization 
 
In accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 71, section 47 (as amended by Chapter 66 of the Acts of 
1996), a school principal may receive monies in connection with the conduct of particular 
student activities and must deposit said monies via the Town Treasurer.  The raising and 
expending of activity money by student bodies should have but one purpose: to promote the 
general welfare, education, and morale of all students through the financing of the normal 
legitimate co-curricular activities of the student body operation. 
 
The Superintendent must approve all student activity accounts. Student Activity Accounts will 
be established upon the recommendation of students or staff to the building principal. The 
principal, in turn, will make a recommendation to the Superintendent of Schools. The accounts 
must be specific to a student organization. No discretionary or commingled accounts can be 
established. An interest-bearing Student Activity Agency Account shall be established for the 
purpose of conducting student activities.  All monies received in conjunction with approved 
student activities will be deposited into such Student Activity Agency Account. 
 
Each school principal will be provided with a checking account for expenditure purposes only. 
Funds may not be deposited directly into such accounts. The bank account will be issued via the 
Town Treasurer with a branch in Lunenburg. 
 
The maximum balance that may be on deposit in the checking account of each Primary and 
Elementary School principal is $2,000; The maximum balance that may be on deposit in the 
checking account of the Middle School principal is $5,000; and The maximum balance that 
may be on deposit in the checking account of the High School principal is $10,000. To the 
extent that funds are available in the Student Activity Agency Account, funds up to the 
maximum balances set by the School Committee will be transferred from the Student Activity 
Agency Account through the warrant process to initially fund each checking account. 
Periodically, to the extent that funds are available in the Agency Account, the Treasurer will 
reimburse each checking account, through the warrant process, to restore the maximum 
balance. 
  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
All expenditures with invoices shall be paid by check. In the event that a particular expenditure 
exceeds either the maximum balance or the amount currently available in the checking account, 
to the extent that funds are available in the Student Activity Agency Account, the Treasurer will 
transfer funds sufficient to cover the expenditure from the Agency Account to the checking 
account. No personnel expenses can be charged to the Student Activity Accounts with the sole 
exception of the Faculty Business Manager of Student Accounts who may be paid from the 
interest earned. 
 
Signature Authority 
 
Principals and administrative secretaries in each school building must sign all checks and 
authorizations with an original signature. Signature stamps are not permitted. All checks in 
excess of $1000 maximum must be co-signed by the Town Treasurer or paid through the Town 
Warrant. 
 
Year-End Balances Graduating Class Funds 
         
Funds held on behalf of graduating classes are to be held within the student activity checking 
account for the High School. Such funds shall be designated by the classes year of graduation.  
All year-end fund balances will be maintained with the class year/club. Class year accounts will 
move to the next school, following the class of students. Upon graduation, the class balance 
shall be disbursed in accordance with the class vote. If there is no such vote, all funds will be 
transferred to the Lunenburg Public Schools Gift Account and expended by vote of the School 
Committee. 
 
Once a class has graduated from High School, their funds must be should be removed from the 
High School Student Activity Checking Account no later than two years from the date of 
graduation.  It is the responsibility of the class officers to arrange for these funds to be removed 
from the High School student activity checking account by making a request to the School 
Committee at a regularly scheduled meeting to approve the transfer of funds to a new account.  
When requested, and once all outstanding financial obligations of the graduating class have 
been met, the remaining balance should be removed from the fund by check transfer payable to 
the Class of 20XX.  Checks payable to individual members of the graduating class are not 
permitted. This check should be deposited into a new joint bank account opened by at least two 
class officers that is designated with the classes’ year of graduation.  This account will be 
assigned an EIN number that should be communicated to the school secretary for future 
reference.  
 
Class Officers should be given a copy of this policy during the course of their senior year to 
ensure their knowledge of their obligations to perform under this policy. 
  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
new Graduating Class Funds 
         
Class Officers should be given a copy of this policy during the course of their senior year to 
ensure their knowledge of their obligations to perform under this policy. 
 
Funds held on behalf of graduating classes are to be held within the student activity checking 
account for the High School. Such funds shall be designated by the classes year of graduation.  
All year-end fund balances will be maintained with the class year/club. Class year accounts will 
move to the next school, following the class of students. Upon graduation, the class balance 
shall be disbursed in accordance with the class vote. 
 
If there is no such vote, all funds will be transferred to the Lunenburg Public Schools Gift 
Account once a class has graduated from High School, their funds must be removed from the 
Lunenburg Public Schools Gift Account no later than two years from the date of graduation.  
Funds held for more than two years from the date of graduation will be deemed as “inactive” 
and 
 
When graduating class funds are deemed inactive, the Principal or other authorized administrator 
shall require the following actions: 
1. Notify the faculty advisor or student officer that the activity is inactive. 
2. Request action to close the account from the School Committee.  
3. Identify in writing all assets in the inactive account for the School Committee. 
4. Advise the School Committee on the use of the funds, which will not benefit specific 
individuals. 
Use of inactive funds must be authorized by vote of the School Committee.   
 
It is the responsibility of the class officers to arrange for these funds to be spent as indicated by 
class vote and to be removed from the High School student activity before two years from the 
date of graduation.  The class officers will make a request to the School Committee at a 
regularly scheduled meeting to approve the transfer of funds to a new account.  When 
requested, and once all outstanding financial obligations of the graduating class have been met, 
the remaining balance should be removed from the fund by check transfer payable to the Class 
of 20XX.  Checks payable to individual members of the graduating class are not permitted. This 
check should be deposited into a new joint bank account opened by at least two class officers 
that is designated with the classes’ year of graduation.  This account will be assigned an EIN 
number that should be communicated to the school secretary for future reference. 
 
 
Inactive Student Activity Accounts 
When a student activity ceases to be active for a period of two fiscal years, the Principal or other 
authorized administrator shall require the following actions: 
5. Obtain written notice from the faculty advisor or student officer that the activity will 
cease to be a viable account. If unable to obtain such notification the Principal shall 
request action to close the account from the School Committee.  
6. Identify in writing all assets of the student activity. The disposition of any assets shall 
be determined by the School Committee and may not benefit specific individuals. 
7. Annually notify all students of the required actions if an activity ceases to exist. 
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
Formatted: Strikethrough
===PAGE 4===
8. Advise the School Committee on the use of the funds, which will not benefit specific 
individuals. 
Use of inactive funds must be authorized by vote of the School Committee.   
 
 
Student Activity Account Deficits 
Individual student activity accounts are not permitted to be in a deficit position.  Whenever a 
deficit exists that is not the result of funding raising or collection timing, the Superintendent shall 
recommend remedial action to the School Committee in a timely manner. 
 
 
Interest Earned 
 
The interest earned by the Student Activity Agency Account will be retained by the fund and 
the School Committee will periodically allocate these funds to purposes as determined by the 
School Committee. The interest earned on each student activity checking account shall remain 
in the account and be recorded as a separate line item by the building principal. Said interest 
shall be used to cover the following expenditures without requiring further approval from the 
School Committee: 
 
• To cover the cost of periodic outside audits of the accounts; 
•To purchase forms and supplies related to maintaining the student activity agency account by 
the school; 
•To cover the cost of a student(s) attending a class or school function when students are charged 
for such, but the principal determines the family is unable to cover such expenses; 
•Refreshments for parents/student activities and for volunteers who have helped to support 
student programs; 
• Faculty Business Manager of Student Accounts. 
 
Commissions 
 
Any monies paid to the school or to a student activity organization as commissions belong to 
the students. At no time shall such commission be used to benefit staff. Commissions should be 
spent in support of student clubs and co-curricular activities (source: vending machines, 
yearbooks, class rings, student pictures) or be deposited to the specific student activity sub- 
account (example: yearbook, senior class) for use by the student organization. 
 
Undesignated Earnings 
Should a school have any undesignated earnings, the school must present a plan for the 
collection and expenditure of such monies to the School Committee for approval. This plan 
must also be stated in the annual report to the School Committee or renewal each year. 
 
Performance Bonds 
 
The Town will ensure that the person(s) administering said accounts shall give bond to the Town 
in such amount as the Treasurer shall determine to secure the principal’s faithful performance of 
his/her duties in connection with such student activity accounts 

===PAGE 5===
 
Account Reconciliation and Annual Report 
 
An annual report on what the interest was used for shall be filed with the School Business 
Manager every August for the prior school year. Monthly account reconciliation will be the 
responsibility of the principal. The development and oversight of financial practices and 
procedures will be the responsibility of the School Business Manager combined with the Town 
Treasurer and Accountant. An annual audit of the student activity funds shall be conducted in 
accordance with the procedures as agreed upon between the School Committee and the auditor, 
based on DOE guidelines. 
 
A copy of the Student Activity Accounts Guidelines can be obtained from the School Business 
Manager. 
 
NOTE: DESE audit guidelines for Student Activity Checking Accounts require an audit 
whose timeline is determined by DESE. In regional districts these accounts may be a part 
of the annual audit by a third party auditor. In municipal districts the audits may be 
conducted by a district or municipal employee but not by the Principal, Treasurer, 
Superintendent, or any authorized signatory on the accounts. Districts with large numbers 
of schools may rotate the schools through the audit process. 
 
 
SOURCE: MASC March 2016 
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 71:47 
Updated & Approved: May 25, 2016, June 20, 2018 