===PAGE 1===
DRAFT
LPS Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan/revised 2023
BULLYING PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION PLAN
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to providing a safe, positive, and productive educational
environment where students can achieve the highest academic standards. No student shall be
subjected to harassment, intimidation, bullying, or cyberbullying.
Lunenburg Public Schools recognizes that certain students may be more vulnerable to become
targets of bullying, harassment, or teasing based on actual or perceived characteristics, including
race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, socioeconomic, status, homelessness,
academic status, gender identity or expression, physical appearance, or sensory, disability, or by
association with a person who has or is perceived to have one or more of these characteristics.
The district will identify specific steps it will take to create a safe, supportive environment for
vulnerable populations in the school community, and provide all students with the skills,
knowledge, and strategies to prevent or respond to bullying, harassment, or teasing.
This plan applies to students and members of a school staff, including, but not limited to
educators, administrators, school nurses, cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic
coaches, advisors to an extracurricular activity and paraprofessionals.
I. Prevention And Intervention Plan
A. History
On May 3, 2010 Governor Patrick signed an Act Relative to Bullying in Schools. The law 
prohibits bullying and retaliation in all public and private schools, and requires schools and 
school districts to take certain steps to address bullying incidents. Chapter 86 of the Acts of 
2014, amended G.L. c. 71, §37O.
The Lunenburg Public Schools Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan was developed in 
consultation with teachers, school staff, professional support personnel, school volunteers, 
administrators, community representatives, local law enforcement agencies, students, 
parents, and guardians ado and adopted by the Lunenburg School Committee in public 
session on December 15, 2010. Biennially, the District will involve representatives from each 
of these constituencies in aspects of Plan review.
B. Leadership.
The Superintendent and/or his/her designee will, in consultation with district stakeholders, 
review and update the Plan at least biennially.
The district’s School Principals and Assistant School Principals are responsible for the 
implementation and oversight of the Bullying Prevention and Intervention Plan.
1
===PAGE 2===
DRAFT
LPSBullyingPrevention&InterventionPlan/revised2023
II. Definitions
Aggressorisastudentoramemberofaschoolstaffwhoengagesinbullying,cyberbullying,orretaliationtowardsastudent.
Bullyingis therepeatedusebyoneormorestudentsorschoolstaff membersofa written,verbal,orelectronicexpression,oraphysicalactorgesture,oranycombinationthereof,directedatatargetthat:
● causesphysicaloremotionalharmtothetargetordamagetothetarget’sproperty;● placesthetargetinreasonablefearofharmtohim/herself,orofdamagetohis/herproperty;● createsahostileenvironmentatschoolforthetarget;● infringesontherightsofthetargetatschool;or● materiallyandsubstantiallydisruptstheeducationprocessortheorderlyoperationofaschool.
Cyber-bullyingis bullyingthroughtheuseoftechnologyoranyelectroniccommunication,whichshallinclude,butshallnotbelimitedto,anytransferofsigns,signals,writing,images,sounds,dataorintelligenceofanynaturetransmittedinwholeorinpartbya:
● wire● radio● electromagnetic● photoelectronicor photo-opticalsystem,including,butnotlimitedto, electronicmail,internetcommunications,instantmessagesorfacsimilecommunications.
Cyber-bullyingshallalsoincludethecreationofawebpageorbloginwhichthecreatorassumestheidentityofanotherpersonorknowinglyimpersonatesanotherpersonasauthorofpostedcontentormessages,ifthecreationorimpersonationcreatesanyoftheconditionsenumeratedinthedefinitionofbullying.
Cyber-bullyingshallalsoincludethedistributionbyelectronicmeansofa communicationtomorethanonepersonorthepostingofmaterialonanelectronicmediumthatmaybeaccessedbyoneormorepersons,ifthedistributionorpostingcreatesanyoftheconditionsenumeratedinthedefinitionofbullying.
Bullyingandcyberbullyingmayoccurinandoutofschool,duringandafterschoolhours,athomeandinlocationsoutsideofthehome.When bullyingandcyberbullyingarealleged,thefullcooperationandassistanceofparentsandfamiliesareexpected.
Forthepurposesofthispolicy, thetermbullyingwillincludecyberbullying.
2
===PAGE 3===
DRAFT
LPSBullyingPrevention&InterventionPlan/revised2023
Hostileenvironmentis a situationin whichbullyingcausestheschoolenvironmentto bepermeatedwithintimidation,ridicule,orinsultthatissufficientlysevereorpervasivetoaltertheconditionsofastudent’seducation.
Retaliationisanyformofintimidation,reprisal,orharassmentdirectedagainstastudentwhoreportsbullying,providesinformationduringaninvestigationofbullying,orwitnessesorhasreliableinformationaboutbullying.
SchoolStaffincludes,butisnotlimitedto,educators,administrators,counselors,schoolnurses,cafeteriaworkers,custodians,busdrivers,athleticcoaches,advisorstoextracurricularactivities,supportstaff,orparaprofessionals.
Targetisastudentagainstwhombullying,cyberbullying,orretaliationhasbeenperpetrated.
III. ProhibitionAgainstBullyingandRetaliation
Bullyingandretaliationareprohibited:
● Onschoolgrounds;● Onpropertyimmediatelyadjacenttoschoolgrounds;● Atschool-sponsoredorschool-relatedactivities;● Atfunctionsorprogramswhetheronoroffschoolgrounds● Atschoolbusstops;● Onschoolbusesorothervehiclesowned,leasedorusedbytheschooldistrict;or,● Throughtheuseoftechnologyoranelectronicdeviceowned,leasedorusedbytheLunenburgPublicSchools
Bullyingandretaliationareprohibitedat a location,activity, functionorprogramthatisnotschool-relatedorthroughtheuseoftechnologyoranelectronicdevicethatisnotowned,leasedorusedbytheLunenburgPublicSchoolsiftheactoractsinquestion:
● createahostileenvironmentatschoolforthetarget;● infringeontherightsofthetargetatschool;and/or● materiallyandsubstantiallydisrupttheeducationprocessortheorderlyoperationofaschool.
IV. ReportingBullyingorRetaliation
Reportsofbullyingorretaliationmaybemadebystaff,students,parentsorguardians,orothers,andmaybeoralorwritten.Oralreportsmadebyortoa staff membershallberecordedinwriting.
Reportsmadebystudents,parentsorguardians,orotherindividualswhoarenotschoolordistrictstaffmembers,maybemadeanonymously. LunenburgPublicSchoolshasameansfor
3
===PAGE 4===
DRAFT
LPS Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan/revised 2023
anonymous reporting by students of incidents of bullying. No formal disciplinary action shall be
taken solely on the basis of an anonymous report. This reporting form can be found on the
Lunenburg Public Schools website (https://www.lunenburgschools.net/district) / Student &
Family Resources link / Bullying Reporting & Incident Reporting Form link.. Use of a Bullying
Reporting & Incident Reporting Form is not required as a condition of making a report.
The school or district will: 1) include a copy of the Bullying Reporting & Incident Reporting
Form in the beginning of the year packets for students and parents or guardians; 2) make it
available in the school’s main office, the counseling office, and the school nurse's office; and 3)
post it on the school’s website. The Bullying Reporting & Incident Reporting Form is available
in the most prevalent language(s) of origin of students and parents or guardians the district
serves.
Reports may also be made via:
● a message at our designated voicemail box at 978.582.4100 Extension 1002
● postal mail to Harassment/Equity Coordinator,Superintendent’s Office at 1025
Massachusetts Ave. Lunenburg, MA 01462
● dedicated email address:Harassment_Coordinator@lunenburgschools.net
● anonymous tip reporting app
If you are calling to make a report about bullying or harassment please leave your name and
phone number and you will be contacted. If you wish to make an anonymous report, please
provide the following information:
1. Name of Target of the behavior
2. Name of Aggressor (Person who engaged in the behavior)
3. Date(s) of Incident(s)
4. Time When Incident(s) Occurred
5. Location of Incident(s) (Be as specific as possible)
A. Reporting by Staff
A staff member will report immediately to the School Principal  or designee, or to the 
superintendent or designee when the School Principal or the Assistant School Principal 
is the alleged aggressor, or to the school committee or designee when the Superintendent 
is the alleged aggressor when he/she witnesses or becomes aware of conduct that 
may be bullying or retaliation. The requirement to report as provided does not limit 
the authority of the staff member to respond to behavioral or disciplinary incidents 
consistent with school policies and procedures for behavior management and 
discipline.
B. Reporting by Students, Parents or Guardians, and Others
4
===PAGE 5===
DRAFT
LPS Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan/revised 2023
The school expects students, parents or guardians, and others who witness or become 
aware of an instance of bullying or retaliation involving a student to report it to the 
School Principal or designee, or Superintendent or designee when the School 
Principal or  Assistant School Principal is the alleged aggressor. Reports may be made 
anonymously, but no disciplinary action will be taken against an alleged aggressor 
solely on the basis of an anonymous report. Students, parents or guardians, and others 
may request assistance from a staff member to complete a written report. Students will 
be provided practical, safe, private, and age-appropriate ways to report and discuss an 
incident of bullying with a staff member, or with the School Principal or designee, 
or Superintendent or designee when the School Principal or Assistant School 
Principal is the alleged aggressor.
If a reported bullying incident involves the School Principal or the Assistant School 
Principal as the alleged aggressor the report can be made in writing or orally to the 
Superintendent who shall be responsible for investigating the report and taking other 
necessary steps as outlined by the District Plan. If the Superintendent is the alleged 
aggressor, the School Committee Chair shall be responsible for investigating the report, 
and taking other necessary steps as outlined by the District Plan.
Upon receipt of such a report, the school official School Principal or his/her 
designee will conduct an investigation. If the school School Principal or designee 
determines that bullying or retaliation has occurred, the school School Principal or 
designee official shall (i) notify the parents or guardians of the target, and to the extent 
consistent with state and federal law, notify them of the action taken to prevent any 
further acts of bullying or retaliation; (ii) notify the parents or guardians of the aggressor 
as appropriate; (iii) take appropriate disciplinary action; and (iv) notify the local law 
enforcement agency if the school School Principal or designee official believes that 
criminal charges may be pursued against the aggressor.
V . Responding to a Report of Bullying or Retaliation
A. Safety
Before fully investigating the allegations of bullying or retaliation, the School 
Principal or designee will take steps to assess the need to restore a sense of safety to the 
alleged target and/or to protect the alleged target from possible further incidents. 
Responses to promote safety may include, but not be limited to, creating a personal safety 
plan; pre-determining seating arrangements for the target and/or the aggressor in the 
classroom, at lunch, or on the bus; identifying a staff member who will act as a “safe 
person” for the target; and altering the aggressor’s schedule and access to the target. The 
School Principal or designee will take additional steps to promote safety during the 
course of and after the investigation, as necessary.
The School Principal or designee will implement appropriate strategies for 
protecting from bullying or retaliation a student who has reported bullying or retaliation,
5
===PAGE 6===
DRAFT
LPS Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan/revised 2023
a student who has witnessed bullying or retaliation, a student who provides information
during an investigation, or a student who has reliable information about a reported act of
bullying or retaliation.
B. Obligations to Notify Others
a. Notice to parents or guardians. Upon determining that bullying or retaliation has 
occurred, the School Principal or designee will promptly notify the parents or 
guardians of the target and the aggressor of this, and of the procedures for responding 
to it. There may be circumstances in which the School Principal or designee 
contacts parents or guardians prior to any investigation. Notice will be consistent 
with state regulations at 603 CMR 49.00.
b. Notice to Another School or District. If the reported incident involves students from 
more than one school district, charter school, non-public school, approved private 
special education day or residential school, or collaborative school, the School 
Principal or designee first informed of the incident will promptly notify by 
telephone the School Principal or designee of the other school(s) of the incident so 
that each school may take appropriate action. All communications will be in 
accordance with state and federal privacy laws and regulations, and 603 CMR 49.00.
c. Notice to Law Enforcement. At any point after receiving a report of bullying or 
retaliation, including after an investigation, if the School Principal or designee has a 
reasonable basis to believe that criminal charges may be pursued against the 
aggressor, the School Principal will notify the local law enforcement agency. 
Notice will be consistent with the requirements of 603 CMR 49.00 and locally 
established agreements with the local law enforcement agency. Also, if an incident 
occurs on school grounds and involves a former student under the age of 21 who is no 
longer enrolled in school, the School Principal or designee shall contact the local 
law enforcement agency if he or she has a reasonable basis to believe that 
criminal charges may be pursued against the student aggressor.
In making this determination, the School Principal will, consistent with the Plan and 
with applicable school or district policies and procedures, consult with the school 
resource officer, if any, and other individuals the School Principal or designee 
deems appropriate.
VI. Investigation
The School Principal and/or Assistant School  Principal  shall promptly investigate the report 
of bullying, which may include interviewing the alleged target, alleged perpetrator, staff 
members, students and/or witnesses. Procedures for investigating reports of bullying and 
retaliation will be consistent with school policies and procedures for investigations. To the extent 
possible, confidentiality shall be used to protect a person who reports bullying, provides 
information during an investigation of bullying, or is witness to or has reliable information about 
an act of bullying.
6
===PAGE 7===
DRAFT
LPS Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan/revised 2023
The School Principal and/or Assistant School Principal  shall provide updates to the alleged 
target(s) and alleged perpetrator(s), or their parents or guardians, as to the status of the 
investigation.
VII. Determination
The School Principal or designee will make a determination based upon all of the facts and 
circumstances. If, after an investigation, bullying or retaliation is substantiated, the School 
Principal or designee will take steps reasonably calculated to prevent recurrence and to 
ensure that the target is not restricted in participating in school or in benefiting from school 
activities. The School Principal or designee will: 1) determine what remedial action is 
required, if any, and 2) determine what responsive actions and/or disciplinary action is necessary. 
Disciplinary actions for students who have committed an act of bullying or retaliation shall be in 
accordance with district disciplinary policies.
If the School Principal or designee determines that a student knowingly made a false 
allegation of bullying or retaliation, that student may be subject to disciplinary action in 
accordance with school disciplinary policies.
The School Principal or designee shall inform the parent or guardian of the target about the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education’s problem resolution system and the 
process for accessing that system, regardless of the outcome of the bullying determination. See 
section X, below.
School administrators in conjunction with school counselors, school nurses, and teachers will 
continue to develop intervention/support plans for (a) students who have been targets of bullying 
or retaliation, (b) aggressors and (c)appropriate family members of the involved students. These 
services will be in addition to the social skills programs and individual and group counseling 
opportunities in place for all students to prevent bullying. Strategies currently utilized include 
behavioral intervention plans, social skills groups, and individually focused curricula.
VIII. Resources
The Lunenburg Public Schools shall provide counseling or referral to appropriate services, 
including guidance, academic intervention, and protection to students, both targets and 
perpetrators, affected by bullying, as necessary.
Each year the District will inform parents or guardians of enrolled students about the 
anti-bullying curricula that are being used. This notice will include information about the 
dynamics of bullying, including cyberbullying and online safety. The District will post the Plan 
and related information on its website.
7
===PAGE 8===
DRAFT
LPSBullyingPrevention&InterventionPlan/revised2023
IX. TrainingAndAssessment
Annualtrainingshallbeprovidedforschoolemployeesandvolunteerswhohavesignificantcontactwithstudentsin preventing,identifying,respondingto, andreportingincidentsofbullying.
A. NoticeandTraining
TheschoolordistrictwillprovideallstaffwithanannualwrittennoticeofthePlanbypublishinginformationaboutit,includingsectionsrelatedtostaffdutiesandbullyingofstudentsbyschoolstaff,intheschoolordistrictemployeehandbookandthecodeofconduct.
Annualtrainingshallbe providedfor schoolemployeesandvolunteerswhohavesignificantcontactwithstudentsinpreventing,identifying,respondingto,andreportingincidentsofbullying.
Age-appropriate,evidence-basedinstructiononbullyingpreventionshallbeincorporatedintothecurriculumforallstudents.
AsrequiredbyM.G.L.c.71,§37O,thecontentofschoolwideanddistrictwideprofessionaldevelopmentwillbeinformedbyresearchandwillincludeinformationon:
i. developmentally(orage-)appropriatestrategiestopreventbullying;ii. developmentally(orage-)appropriatestrategiesforimmediate,effectiveinterventionstostopbullyingincidents;iii. informationregardingthecomplexinteractionandpowerdifferentialthatcantakeplacebetweenandamonganaggressor, target,andwitnessestothebullying;iv. researchfindingson bullying,includinginformationaboutspecificcategoriesofstudentswhohavebeenshowntobeparticularlyatriskforbullyingintheschoolenvironment;v. informationontheincidenceandnatureofcyberbullying;andvi. Internetsafetyissuesastheyrelatetocyberbullying.
Additionaltopicsmaybeidentifiedbytheschoolordistrictleadershipastheyconsidertheuniqueneedsoftheschoolordistrictcommunity.
B. Assessment
InaccordancewithChapter86,theLunenburgPublicSchoolswillcollectandreportthefollowingdatatotheDepartmentofElementaryandSecondaryEducation:1)thenumberof reportedallegationsof bullyingor retaliation;2) the numberand natureof
8
===PAGE 9===
DRAFT
LPSBullyingPrevention&InterventionPlan/revised2023
substantiatedincidentsofbullyingandretaliation;3)thenumberofstudentsdisciplinedfor engagingin bullyingor retaliation,and4) otherinformationrequiredby theDepartment.
1 
Additionally, theLunenburg PublicSchoolswillperiodicallyadministerastudentsurveyto assessschoolclimateandtheprevalenceandnatureofbullyinginschools.
Datareportedto theDepartmentof ElementaryandSecondaryEducationwillbereviewedalongwithdatagatheredthroughsurveystoinformPlanupdates.
X. ProblemResolutionSystem
Anyparentwishingtofileaclaim/concernorseekingassistanceoutsideofthedistrictmaydosowiththeDepartmentof ElementaryandSecondaryEducationProgramResolutionSystem(PRS).Thatinformationcanbefoundat: https://www.doe.mass.edu/prs/,emailscanbesenttocompliance@doe.mass.eduorindividualscancall781-338-3700.HardcopiesofthisinformationisalsoavailableattheSuperintendent’soffice.
XI. RelationshipToOtherLaws
Consistentwithstateandfederallaws,andthepoliciesoftheschoolordistrict,nopersonshallbe discriminatedagainstin admissionto a publicschoolof anytownor in obtainingtheadvantages,privilegeandcoursesofstudyofsuchpublicschoolonaccountofrace,color,religion,ancestry, nationalorigin,sex,socioeconomicstatus,academicstatus,genderidentityorexpression,physicalappearance,sexualorientation,or mental,physical,developmental,orsensorydisability, orbyassociationwithapersonwhohasorisperceivedtohaveoneormoreofthesecharacteristics.NothinginthePlanpreventstheschoolordistrictfromtakingactiontoremediatediscriminationorharassmentbasedona person’s membershipinalegallyprotectedcategoryunderlocal,state,orfederallaw, orschoolordistrictpolicies.Thisplanshallaffordallstudentsthesameprotectionregardlessoftheirstatusunderthelaw.
Inaddition,nothinginthePlanisdesignedorintendedtolimittheauthorityoftheschoolordistricttotakedisciplinaryactionorotheractionunderM.G.L.c.71,§§37Hor37H½,M.G.L.c.71,§§41and42,M.G.L.c76§5,orotherapplicablelaws,orlocalschoolordistrictpolicies,or collectivebargainingagreements,in responseto violent,harmful,ordisruptivebehavior,regardlessofwhetherthePlancoversthebehavior.
CrossReferences
SchoolHandbooksLunenburgPublicSchoolsEmployeeHandbook
9
===PAGE 10===
DRAFT
LPSBullyingPrevention&InterventionPlan/revised2023
TitleIXStudentHarassmentPolicyLunenburgPublicSchools- BullyingPrevention&InterventionLunenburgPublicSchools-Curriculum
10