===PAGE 1===
PERSONNEL 4000 
 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF 4200 
 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF HIRING AND RECRUITMENT 4202 
AND POSTING OF VACANCIES 
 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF HIRING 4202.01 
 
Through its employment policies, the District will strive to attract, secure, and hold the highest 
qualified personnel for all professional positions.  The selection process will be based upon 
awareness of candidates who will devote themselves to the education and welfare of the children 
attending District schools. 
 
It is the responsibility of the Super intendent, and of persons to whom he or she delegates this 
responsibility, to determine the personnel needs of the school system and to locate suitable 
candidates.  No position may be created without the approval of the School Committee.  The 
District's goal is to employ and retain personnel who are motivated, will strive always to do their 
best, and are committed to providing the best educational environment for  students. 
 
It will be the duty of the Superintendent to see that persons considered for employ ment in the 
schools meet all licensing requirements and the requirements of the Committee for the type of 
position for which the nomination is made. 
 
The following guidelines will be used in the selection of personnel: 
 
            1.         The Lunenburg Public Schools shall not discriminate in the hiring process shall     
  not discriminate on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, sex, gender  
  identity, age, sexual orientation, ancestry, athletic performance, physical   
  handicap, special need, academic performance or proficiency in the English  
  language or pregnancy or pregnancy related conditions.  
2.     The quality of instruction is enhanced by a staff with a wide variation in 
background, educational preparation, and previous experience. 
3.     The administrator responsible for the hiring of a staff member (in the case of 
District-wide positions, i.e., Principals, it is the Superintendent; for building-based 
personnel, it is the Principal) is directed to establish a representative screening 
committee.  The administrator has the final say in determining who will be hired, 
but it is expected that the screening committee's input will be a factor in the 
decision. For those positions where the hiring authority rests with the School 
Committee a representative screening committee may be established by the School 
Committee or the School Committee may direct the Superintendent to establish a 
screening committee to assist the Superintendent in making her or his 
recommendation to the School Committee. 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employment 
or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
===PAGE 2===
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported 
possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, 
or who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and 
staff who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or 
dismissal. 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free 
from discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship 
status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, 
genetic information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, 
we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or 
who participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
  
 *race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
SOURCE: MASC 
 
LEGAL REFS.:        M.G.L. 69:6; 71:38; 71:38G; 71:39; 71:45; 71:55B 
     Massachusetts Board of  Education Requirements for Certification of 
Teachers, Principals, Supervisors, Directors, Superintendents and 
Assistant Superintendents in the Public Schools of the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts, revised 1994 
      BESE Regulations 603 CMR 7:00, 26.00, and 44:00 
 *Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - 
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
 
 
NOTE:  School Committees may determine the size and composition of the screening committee. 
 
Revised & Approved 6-20-18 