===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
ACCOUNTS 3300 
 
FISCAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING 3301 
 
The Superintendent will shall be ultimately responsible for receiving and properly accounting for 
all funds of the school system, maintaining effective internal controls so as to assure the efficiency 
of operations; adequate safeguarding of property; assurance of expenditures in accordance with 
programs under which revenues are received; and compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. 
 
The accounting system used will shall conform with state requirements and with good accounting 
practices, providing for the appropriate separation of accounts, funds, and special moneys. 
 
The School Committee will shall receive periodic financial s tatements* from the Superintendent 
showing the financial condition of the school department.  Such other financial statements as may 
be determined necessary by either the Committee or the administration will be presented as found 
desirable. 
 
Legal Ref.:  M.G.L. Ch. 41, Sec. 35 
 
*See policy #3102 
 
MASC: 
The Superintendent will be ultimately responsible for receiving and properly accounting for all funds of the 
school district, maintaining effective internal controls so as to assure the effectiveness and effi ciency of 
operations; adequate safeguarding of property; assurance of expenditures in accordance with programs 
under which revenues are received; and compliance with applicable laws and regulations The accounting 
system used will conform with the Uniform M assachusetts Accounting System as well as good accounting 
practices, providing for the appropriate separation of accounts, funds, and special monies.  
 
The School Committee will receive periodic financial statements from the Superintendent showing the 
financial condition of the school department. Such other financial statements as may be determined 
necessary by either the Committee or the administration will be presented as found desirable.  
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REF.: MGL Ch. 44:38 
603 CMR 10:00 
2 CFR 200.303 
 
CROSS REFS: DBJ Budget Transfer Authority 
 
DIE Audits 
 
NOTE: References to town or city charters may be appropriate at this category, and the content 
of the policy should be changed accordingly. 
 