===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg School Committee Operating Protocols
Who We Represent
1.We represent all students in the district, andplace their educational, safety and development needs,andinterestsabove all others in the decisions we make. School Committee members are elected publicofficials, selected by their fellow citizens to act in their interests and empowered to act as they see their dutyto work for the children of their community.
What Are Our LimitsPertinent PointsofSchool CommitteeAuthority1. We shall exercise leadership in vision, planning, policy, budgeting, evaluation of theSuperintendent of Schools, and advocacy of the district, consistent with the law and ourpolicies.2. It is the Superintendent’s responsibility to oversee personnel issues and to manage theday-to-day operations of the district. It is the School Committee’s responsibility to evaluate thesuperintendent’s effectiveness in these mattersinaccordance with Department of Elementaryand Secondary Education’s standards.3. We shall recognize that authority rests only with the majority decision of the SchoolCommittee and we shall not make any independent commitments or take any independentactions that may compromise the School Committee as a whole.4. We shall follow the chain of commandregardingquestions, concerns or complaintsanddirectothersmembers of the communityto do the same.Complaints and concerns regardingpersonnel will be directed to the Superintendent.5. We shall not use our positions for personal or partisan gain.6.We shall refer any important questions or concernsreceived from members of thecommunity to the Superintendent. When serious issuesarise,Tthe Superintendent, not anySchool Committee member,has the authority to investigatea complaint or concern. TheSuperintendent shall provide committee members with his/her response/resolution within anappropriate timeline.It is not the role of the SchoolCommittee to resolve issues.
How We Treat Each Other1. We shall debate the issues keeping an open mind to other member’s opinions and/orpositions.2. We shall respect staff and fellowboardcommitteemembers at all times.3. We shall work to build trust between and among School Committee members, theSuperintendent and the Administration by treating everyone with dignity and respect, even intimes of disagreement.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg School Committee Operating Protocols
How We Communicate1. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of proactivecommunication. If School Committee members have questions or concerns, we agree to contactthe Superintendent well in advance of a meeting. We agree that there will be no surprises.2. We shall channel requests for information through the Superintendent and/or the SchoolCommittee Chairperson rather than directly to district staff.3. We shall provide full disclosure of information and not withhold information from othermembers.4.WeThe Committeeshall advocate for the publicschools and public education asambassadors of the school system by promoting support for public education and spreading thenews of our success. We shall always strive to project apositiveprofessionalimage.5.WeThe Committeerecognizesthe Chairperson, orher/his designee, as the official voice ofthe School Committee.6. The Superintendent and the School Committee recognize the importance of workingcollaboratively with Town officials to improve our schools and we shall actively seek ways toenlist their support for our efforts. Town officials shall channel requests for informationthrough the Chairperson for consideration by the School Committee.7. Our seating plan allows all members to see and hear each other to facilitate effectivecommunication.The School Committee members, Superintendent,and Student Representativewill be seated at the table.8. The School Committee members, Superintendent, and Student Representative will be seatedat the table.
How We Operate
1. We acknowledge that a School Committee meeting is a meeting of the School Committee thatis held in public – not a public meeting.Our meetingswill be recorded whenever possible andwe encourage public comment.  Agendas and supporting documents for meetings will be postedon the district website in advance of the meeting.2. We shall conduct business through a set agenda. Emerging items shall be addressed insubsequent meetings through planned agenda items unless it is determined by the SchoolCommittee Chairperson that it would be detrimental to delay the issue until a subsequentmeeting. Requests to add items to an agenda shall be made to the Superintendent or the SchoolCommittee Chairperson. All items for a School Committeeagenda must bein accordance withthe law.3. The agenda will include public comment at the beginning of the meeting to allow the publicto address agenda itemsand matters under the governanceof the School Committee. A secondpublic comment will be included at the end of the meeting, before Topics for Future Discussion,to allow the public to comment on items relative to this meeting, items not on the agenda, oritems for future discussion. Comments must be limited to matters that fall under thegovernance of the School Committee.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg School Committee Operating Protocols
4. Public comment periods will be limited to 10 minutes and can only be extended by a majorityvote of the Committee. Individualspeakers will belimited to 3 minutes. Written publiccomments may be submitted to the Chair.5. Our meetings will be guided by Roberts Rules of Order.6. We shall strive to make each meeting effective and efficient giving each member an equalopportunity to express their views and opinions and to relay their input in a concise andtopic-focused manner. No one member should monopolize the discussion. All remarks must bedirected through the Chair. Remarks must be courteous in language and delivery.7. We shall make decisions based on information and not on personalities after consideringdata, the Superintendent’s recommendations, proposals, and suggestions. We will vote ourconvictions, avoid bias, and upholdand supportthedecision of the majority of the Committeeonce a decision is made.8. We shall exhibit professional conduct and behavior.9. We shall attend meetings well-prepared to discuss issues on the agenda and to participate inefficient decision-making.10. When we are in committee we will remain in our committee member role throughout themeeting.11. We shall ensure that we do not breach the open meeting laws by deliberating in any formatoutside of duly convened meetings of the committee.12. We shall respect the confidentiality of Executive Sessions.13. Our actions shall be consistent with the core values of the district, and be consistent withour vision.14. We shall work together to clarify and restate discussions in order to strive for fullunderstanding.14.15.We recognize the importance of honoring ouragreed upon operating protocols and weagree to take responsibility for reminding one another when we get off track.16. We shall maintain fidelity to these commitments and will be held accountable by our fellowSchool Committee members should any of us fail to live up to these commitments.
How We Will Improve1. All new School Committee members will attend an MASC orientation session as soon aspracticable, but within one year of being elected.2. All members will be open to continued personal growth through participating in workshopsor training opportunities.3. We shall review and revise operating protocols annually through a workshop.4. We shall set goals annually and discuss progress.