===PAGE 1===
 
 
Submitted by Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools 
      
 
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
REOPENING PLAN                        
2021-2022 
 
  
===PAGE 2===
1 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Executive Summary 
 
Guidance and recommendations from the Center for Disease Control (CDC), American 
Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), Governor’s Office, Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education (DESE), Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MADPH), 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health (NABH), and the Lunenburg Schools physician 
were considered in the development of this plan.  The 2021-2022 school-year will 
begin with universal masking; all staff and students wear masks indoors 
regardless of vaccination status.   
 
Lunenburg Public Schools will participate in the state’s “test and stay” 
program.  This will allow us to keep asymptomatic close contacts in school rather than 
quarantining at home by testing these individuals for five (5) days.  Testing will be 
conducted each morning at one centralized location.  With a negative test result, the 
student can proceed to school.  Should a test yield a positive result, the individual will be 
sent home to isolate until cleared to return to school. 
 
Public health metrics remain in flux. Research is ongoing and new information on 
corona virus and its variants continues to emerge.  As a result, guidance and 
recommendations will likely change throughout the year.  We will continue to review 
state, regional, local, and school public health metrics, along with any updated guidance.  
Changes to practices and protocols laid out in this plan may be modified accordingly.  
 
 
The following details will be incorporated: 
 
Student Cohorts  
Lunenburg Primary Grades PreK-2 self-contained classrooms  
Turkey Hill Elementary 
School 
Grade 3-5 interdisciplinary teams 
Lunenburg Middle 
School 
Grades 6-7 interdisciplinary teams with students remaining with 
homeroom groups 
Grade 8 no interdisciplinary teams 
Lunenburg High School High school classes grouped according to master schedule 
 
Special Education Procedures 
 
Referrals 
===PAGE 3===
2 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Discussions with staff and parents regarding referrals for special education services and 
evaluations will be held via phone, email, or through remote meetings. Educators 
engaging in referral discussions are encouraged to use *67 if using their personal cell 
phone to keep their phone number private, or to use google voice. 
Evaluations 
School-based evaluations will be offered in school with PPE protocols in place. When 
testing has concluded, meetings to discuss the findings of those evaluations and to 
determine eligibility for special education services will be held remotely. If a parent(s) 
request an in-person meeting, school team members may choose to participate via 
remote format with at least one staff member meeting in-person with parent(s) and 
facilitating the remote participation.  
IEP Meetings 
Meetings to discuss the findings of those evaluations and to determine eligibility for 
special education services will be held remotely. If a parent(s) request an in-person 
meeting, school team members may choose to participate via remote format with at 
least one staff member meeting in-person with parent(s) and facilitating the remote 
participation. IEP teams will determine need to adapt a student’s plans to meet 
emerging needs when appropriate. The services outlined in the signed IEP are 
considered “stay-put.” IEPs will be written as if the school is utilizing a fully in-person 
learning model, meaning remote and/or hybrid services do not need to be included into 
IEPs. Any other considerations can be included into the N1 and team meeting notes. 
504 Meetings 
Meetings to review and develop 504 Plans will be held remotely. If a parent(s) request 
an in-person meeting, school team members may choose to participate via remote 
format with at least one staff member meeting in-person with parent(s) and facilitating 
the remote participation. 504 teams will determine need to adapt a student’s plans to 
meet emerging needs when appropriate. 
McKinney Vento 
McKinney Vento protects students identified and considered to be homeless. When staff 
members learn, either from a student directly, from their family, or from another 
source, that a student could be considered homeless (residing in a shelter, cohabitating 
with another family or friends, living in a shelter other than a home, etc.), staff members 
are directed to inform their administration and/or school secretary immediately. These 
parties will then notify Special Services. When a student is identified as being protected 
under McKinney-Vento, they are entitled to access school food assistance, to remain in 
attendance and supported by the Lunenburg Public Schools, regardless of residency 
location, for the remainder of the school year with the Lunenburg Public Schools 
assuming the transportation costs.  
Every effort to provide in-person learning for students protected under the McKinney-
Vento Act will be taken. In the event that in-person learning is not possible, said 
students will participate in learning with their peers to the greatest extent possible for 
them.  
===PAGE 4===
3 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
English Language Learners 
Screening of incoming kindergarten students and new students using the WIDA 
screener will be conducted virtually.  
 
Communication 
 
The district and schools will keep families informed by (1) keeping the district and 
school websites updated with COVID related communications, (2) principals will send 
weekly school update emails to families, (3) the district will provide families with 
routine monthly updates via email, and (4) specific COVID-related updates as needed.  
Any COVID related update communications from the Superintendent’s Office will be 
sent via email, families will receive an automated phone call alerting them to check 
email for the update, and communications will be posted on the district website.  All 
documents on the website can be translated into the home language of the family.  
As per requirements for the ESSER 3 grants, Lunenburg Public Schools will solicit 
feedback as to grant priorities each quarter. 
To ensure that families are notified of, and receive up-to-date information, the Special 
Services family website will be kept updated with new information for families regularly. 
The special education staff at school will maintain close contact with families to develop 
communication expectations for the students on their caseloads to ensure appropriate 
and necessary information is communicated to families.  
English Language Learner staff will reach out to parents to be sure they understand the 
expectations for their children and address any questions/ concerns that they may have. 
EL staff will offer home visits (adhering to CDC guidelines and using social distancing 
protocols) to support families as appropriate. EL staff will also communicate with 
families through emails/ phone calls, in addition to virtual “home visits” to support 
families during this time.  
Surveys will be distributed after every IEP meeting where a proposed/amended IEP is 
developed through the Special Services Office soliciting feedback (additional surveys 
soliciting feedback from families will be distributed more often if needed).  
Ongoing feedback and communication is always welcome.  The Lunenburg Public 
Schools maintain the expectation that, if needed, response from school staff to family 
communication will occur within 48 business hours.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
4 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
  
 
 
 
          
        Dr. Kate Burnham                                                                        Michael Cassidy 
     Superintendent of Schools                                                       Business Manager/HR Director 
        John Londa       Annica Scott                                           Julianna Hanscom 
     Director of Facilities  Director of Teaching & Learning              Director of Special Services                                                  
                                                                     
August 9, 2021 
Dear Lunenburg Public Schools Community, 
Since June 2021, several agencies have released and updated guidance for K-12 schools.  The guidance is 
outlined below. 
 
 
June 19, 2021 (DESE)  
Stated: 
 all health and safety guidance including masking is lifted for the fall 
 will collaborate with the MADPH to issue any additional recommendations as necessary   
 
July 9, 2021  (CDC- updated K-12 school guidance)  
Recommended:  
 masking of all individuals who are not fully vaccinated (teachers, staff and students) age two (2) 
and older when indoors; 
 masking outdoors for those not fully vaccinated when in crowded outdoor settings or when in 
sustained close contact with others who are not fully vaccinated while outdoors; 
 based on community needs, school administrators may opt to make masking universally required, 
regardless of vaccination status 
 
July 19, 2021  (American Academy of Pediatrics)  
Recommended:  
 all students older than age two (2) and all school staff mask in school, regardless of vaccination 
status. 
 
July 27, 2021  (CDC- updated mask guidance ) 
Recommended:  
 fully vaccinated individuals, regardless of whether personal risk factors or household member 
risk factors apply, mask when indoors in public when in an area experiencing “substantial” or 
“high” transmission  
 fully vaccinated individuals might consider wearing masks when indoors (other than at home) if 
other risk factors are present, such as:  a weakened immune system, an increased risk for severe 
disease because of age or an underlying medical condition, or if a household member has a 
weakened immune system, is at increased risk for severe disease, or is unvaccinated (including 
children under 12 years old who are not currently age eligible for vaccination) 
Lunenburg Public Schools  
 
 
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students 
with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that 
they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, 
and rewarding lives. 
ssion:  We prepare our students for life-long  
learning and responsible community membership. 
 
===PAGE 6===
5 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 fully vaccinated people who have been in close contact with a suspected or confirmed COVID-19 
positive individual mask in public indoor settings for 14 days or until they test negative for 
COVID-19 
 universal indoor masking for all staff and students in schools, regardless of vaccination status 
(change to the CDC’s former K-12 mask guidance issued July 9, 2021) 
 unvaccinated individuals mask  
July 30, 2021  (Massachusetts DPH- updated mask advisory)  
Recommended:  
 fully vaccinated individuals wear masks when indoors (other than at home) if other risk factors 
are present, such as:  a weakened immune system, an increased risk for severe disease because of 
age or an underlying medical condition, or if a household member has a weakened immune 
system, is at increased risk for severe disease, or is an unvaccinated adult.  
(The state’s updated mask advisory does not expressly address transmission levels, but does provide a 
link directly to the CDC’s July 27, 2021 updated guidance.) 
 
July 30, 2021  (DESE / MADPH -updated COVID-19 guidance for Fall 2021)  
Strongly recommended:  
 all K-6 students mask when indoors, except while eating  
 masks are not necessary outdoors 
 unvaccinated staff in all grades, unvaccinated students in grades 7 and above, and unvaccinated 
visitors mask indoors (in alignment with the state mask advisory) 
 individuals at higher risk for severe disease from COVID-19 or with a household member who is 
at high risk are encouraged to mask regardless of vaccination status (in alignment with the state 
mask advisory) 
 schools allow vaccinated students to remain unmasked 
Required:  
 all staff and students are to wear masks on school buses and in school health offices. 
Through the summer months the guidance has been changing, and we have been advised by MADPH and 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health that guidance is likely to change again before school opens, based 
on trending public health metrics.   
The current guidance from DESE is not consistent with CDC and American Academy of Pediatrics 
guidance for K-12 schools. 
I have reviewed and considered carefully, with my Leadership Team, all the guidance released this 
summer.  I have sought recommendations from our school physician and our NABH agent, and consulted 
with area superintendents.  After deep and careful consideration of all guidance and recommendations, 
and given that health and safety of staff and students remains my top priority and that our objective is to 
keep all staff and students healthy and in school for teaching and learning, I will be making the following 
recommendations to the School Committee at the next meeting on August 18, 2021at 6pm at LMHS 
(masks will be required at the meeting): 
 
(1) The 2021-2022 school-year begin with universal masking; all staff and students wear 
masks indoors regardless of vaccination status. I feel this is a prudent course of action at 
this time given the highly transmissible nature of the Delta variant; the fact that public health 
metrics trending in the wrong direction at this time; vaccination of students grades 7-12 is 
===PAGE 7===
6 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
only approximately 60%; vaccinated individuals can spread the virus as easily as non-
vaccinated individuals; students under age 12 have not yet had an opportunity to be 
vaccinated, providing an added layer of protection from the virus; and schools are public 
buildings.   
 
(2) Lunenburg Public Schools participate in the state’s “test and stay” program.  This will 
allow us to keep asymptomatic close contacts in school rather than quarantining at home by 
testing these close contacts for five (5) days.  Testing will be conducted each morning at one 
location.  With a negative test result, the student will proceed to school.  Should a test yield a 
positive result, the individual will be sent home to isolate until cleared to return to school. 
 
 
This recommendation is not what we all hoped for the start of the 2021-22 school-year.  I know that some 
may strongly agree or disagree with this recommendation.  However, public health metrics remain in flux. 
Research is ongoing and new information on corona virus and its variants continues to emerge.  As a 
result, guidance and recommendations will likely change throughout the year.  We will continue to review 
state, regional, local, and school public health metrics, along with any updated guidance from various 
agencies.  We will continue to seek recommendations from our school physician and NABH.  Changes to 
practices and protocols laid out in this plan may be modified accordingly as we proceed through the year. 
 
We are currently finalizing our 2021-2022 Reopen Plan.  As soon as the draft is completed, it will be 
posted on the website and families and staff will be notified. 
 
I will be hosting a Zoom forum for families on Monday, August 16th at 6pm.  A separate Zoom forum 
for staff will be held earlier that same day.  At that time I, along with district administrators, principals, 
and our health and safety officer, will be available to answer any questions you may have. 
 
Lastly, again this year families must complete a transportation form if bus transportation is needed. 
Principals distributed this form to their families via email today.  The form and School Committee 
transportation policy will also be posted on the district website and each school website. Forms must be 
completed and returned to your child’s school by August 19.  We cannot guarantee transportation for 
late submissions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
Kate Burnham, Ed.D. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 8===
7 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Full Return to Campus  
 
All Lunenburg Public School students will return in person to school settings which are 
appropriately modified to accommodate health and safety requirements.   
 
 
As per the Lunenburg School Committee vote August 5, 2020, masks/face 
coverings will be required for all staff and students in grades PreK-12.  Mask 
breaks will be provided multiple times per day, during lunch, and upon student 
request.  Mask breaks will be taken only in designated outside areas or in hallways 
which allow for a social distancing of 6 feet. 
 
Classroom configurations will be altered for social distancing.  Students in grades PreK-
12 will remain approximately 3 feet apart, with desks facing the same direction. 
Teachers will have 6 feet of space.  Scheduled transitions, mask breaks, bathroom 
breaks, handwashing protocols, and recess in cohorts will be in place.  Hallways and 
stairwells will be labeled denoting social distancing and direction of foot traffic. 
 
PreK-6 students will be provided with 6 feet of physical space during lunch periods in 
the cafeteria since masks will not be worn while eating.  Given that many students in 
grades 7-12 have been vaccinated, as much space as is feasible will be provided.  
Additional building and outdoor spaces will be utilized to provide physical distancing. 
 
Students requiring bus transportation must register for transportation.   Students will 
be assigned a bus seat.  The district will adhere to its current bus policy of transporting 
all students in grades K-2 and students in grades 3-12 living 1.5 miles or more from 
school.  
 
Principals will provide detailed plans for each building regarding supplies, recess, 
arrival and dismissal protocols, locker use, handwashing/sanitizing schedules, mask 
breaks, and bathroom protocols.   
 
Special Education Programming 
 
Inclusion  
All students attending the Lunenburg Public Schools who are supported by IEPs, will 
receive their full IEP services in-person. All services will be coordinated by their special 
education liaison. If any learning varies from the IEP grid due to PPE protocols (e.g., B-
grid services cannot be provided due to class size or their group is learning remotely), 
parents will be notified according to DESE guidance. The services provided to students 
will include instruction and services that include a regular and consistent schedule of 
classes, interventions, services, and therapies per the IEP with access to state standards.  
All special education staff working in close proximity to students will be provided with 
face shields, gloves, and masks. Those that may be in direct contact (e.g., feeding, 
===PAGE 9===
8 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
toileting, restraints, etc.) with students have been ordered additional PPE gear. All PPE 
gear will adhere to DESE guidance and may change as needed.  
Sub-separate Classes 
All students attending the Lunenburg Public Schools who are supported by IEPs, will 
receive their full IEP services as listed on their IEP grid, in-person. All services will be 
coordinated by their special education liaison. If any learning varies from the IEP grid 
due to PPE protocols (e.g., B-grid services cannot be provided due to class size or their 
group is learning remotely), parents will be notified according to DESE guidance. The 
services provided to students will include instruction and services that include a regular 
and consistent schedule of classes, interventions, services, and therapies per the IEP 
with access to state standards. 
The team should consider opportunities to facilitate peer interactions to the greatest 
extent possible while minimizing the number of different classrooms each student visits. 
These considerations will be taken into account by the student’s IEP team to ensure IEP 
requirements are fulfilled.    
All special education staff working in close proximity to students will be provided face 
shields, gloves, and masks.  Those that may be in direct contact (e.g., feeding, toileting, 
restraints, etc.) have been ordered additional PPE gear.  The PPE gear ordered will 
adhere to DESE guidance which may change as needed.  It is possible that other 
equipment will be needed when working with students who, whether through behavior 
or ability, present with an increased risk of aerosol or bodily fluid contact. This other 
equipment may include face shields, gloves, and gown-like items. In order to off-set the 
possibility of an alarming appearance of staff wearing masks and shields, staff may wear 
a protective garment in the form of an oversized shirt or jacket over their clothing rather 
than donning medical gowns. When engaging in personal care activities, it may not be 
appropriate to utilize alternative protective gear. Masks, face shields, gloves, and gowns 
or gown-substitutes should be worn when working with an escalated student who is 
likely to require a physical escort or a possible restraint. Staff members who are 
assigned to substantially subseparate classrooms should consider wearing PPE 
throughout the day, or to develop a system in place to have staff discreetly change into 
full PPE when a student is escalating. It is behaviorally best practice not to have the 
student see staff putting on PPE in response to their behavior as this could signal to the 
student that the staff anticipates further escalation which could result in continued 
escalation.  
The school BCBAs will review and adapt Cool Down Room (CDR) procedures to make 
considerations based on CDC recommendations to help keep all students and staff safe.  
ACE Program 
Vocational activities for ACE students may be limited to school-owned properties. 
Family communication will be crucial to ensure their comfort in their child returning to 
the community during the school day.  
 
 
===PAGE 10===
9 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
In-Person Learning  
Teacher/Staff Assignments, Roles, & Responsibilities 
 Staff must wear a mask/face covering and maintain 6 feet social distancing 
between themselves and other staff and students.  Staff should have their own 
masks.  Disposable masks will be provided should they forget a mask/face 
covering.   
 
 Staff members will be assigned to classroom cohorts in grades K-7.  High school 
staff will be assigned to classes according to the master schedule. Teachers will 
report to their assigned building. 
 
 All special education staff working in close proximity to students will be 
provided with face shields, gloves, and masks. Those that may be in direct 
contact (e.g. feeding, toileting, restraints, etc.) have been ordered additional 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) gear.  All PPE gear will adhere to DESE 
guidance and may change as needed.  IF ANY STAFF MEMBER FEELS THEY 
NEED ADDITIONAL OR A DIFFERENT TYPE OF PPE THAN WHAT IS 
PROVIDED, THEY NEED TO LET ADMINISTRATION KNOW AS SOON AS 
POSSIBLE.  
 
 All staff should check emails at least daily for any new information distributed  
Expectations for General Education Teachers 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 Monitor the classroom environment and report to administration if a student 
violates the mask or social distancing guidelines. 
 Teachers are responsible for the scope and sequence of curriculum with the 
understanding that there should be blended learning components and 
opportunities for students to collaborate. 
 For each class, teachers will set-up a Google Classroom and have students join 
during the first week of school.   
 Virtual Open Houses will be scheduled using Zoom. 
 Wash hands frequently and avoid touching your face. 
 Staff must remain 6 feet apart at all times, including lunch. 
 Assign seating for students in each class. 
 Grade students traditionally and use PowerSchool to record attendance and 
grades. 
 General education teachers that have a FEL (former English learner) in their 
classroom will still be required to monitor the student(s) 
Expectations for Special Education Teachers 
===PAGE 11===
10 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 All special education staff working in close proximity to students will be 
provided face shields, gloves, and masks. Those that may be in direct contact 
(e.g. feeding, toileting, restraints, etc.) have been ordered additional PPE 
gear.  All PPE gear will adhere to DESE guidance and may change as needed.   
o Other equipment needed when working with students who, whether 
through behavior or ability, present with an increased risk of aerosol or 
bodily fluid contact includes face shields, gloves and gown-like 
items.  Exceptions may be needed when engaging in personal care 
activities.  
o Masks, face shields, gloves and gowns or a gown-substitute should be worn 
when working with an escalated student who is likely to require a physical 
escort or a possible restraint.   
o Substantially subseparate classrooms will have to consider wearing PPE 
throughout the day or have a system in place to have staff be able to 
discreetly change into full PPE when a student is escalating.  It is 
behaviorally best practice not to have the student see staff putting on PPE as 
a response to their behavior.  This would signal to the student that staff 
expects them to continue to escalate, which can result in continued 
escalation.   
 Teachers are responsible for supporting the scope and sequence of curriculum 
along with implementation of IEPs  
 Work with regular educators to consider whether a student has experienced a 
regression in skill and/or lack of progress. If regression and/or lack of progress 
is present, identify opportunities for recovery, including additional, new, or 
different services and accommodations 
 Coordinate paraprofessional(s) and the services/support/instruction to be 
implemented to students on your caseload 
 Participate in PD needed to meet the needs of students on your caseload 
 Whenever reasonable, choose positive reinforcement strategies over punitive 
strategies while supporting students’ learning new procedures for staying 
healthy at school 
 Communicating any changes to IEPs and services, as well as calling for 
meetings when appropriate, to families and other staff members.  Liaisons must 
reach out to parents as soon as possible to discuss how IEP services will be 
delivered if different from the IEP.  
 Special Services Staff webpage should be checked for new updates frequently. 
 Staff should work together to schedule services in a manner that maintains 
physical distancing requirements and avoids overlapping with other staff in the 
classroom whenever possible. 
 English Language Learners  
o EL Teachers may utilize parent volunteers for translations if available 
and all parties agree, but it is strongly recommended that translators be 
hired through the special services office for any meeting. 
===PAGE 12===
11 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Expectations for Paraprofessionals 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to  
 All special education staff working in close proximity to students will be 
provided face shields, gloves, and masks. Those that may be in direct contact 
(e.g. feeding, toileting, restraints, etc.) have been ordered additional PPE 
gear.  All PPE gear will adhere to DESE guidance and may change as needed.   
 Provide one-on-one or small group sessions under the guidance of special 
education teachers 
 Collaborate with special education teachers and regular education teachers on 
the needs for students you work with 
 Be sure to inform teachers if you notice issues/concerns (or potential ones) that 
should be addressed 
o Observe & report any challenges with students’ ability to comply with 
safety/PPE protocols 
o Observe & report any evidence of student anxiety/mental health 
challenges due to returning to group setting  
 Participate in PD needed to meet the needs of students you work with 
 Emails need to be checked at least daily for any new information distributed. If 
paraprofessionals do not have access to a district device, they must request one 
from administration.  
 Special Services Staff webpage should be checked for new updates frequently. 
 Staff should work together to schedule services in a manner that maintains 
physical distancing requirements and avoids overlapping with other staff in the 
classroom whenever possible.  
Expectations for Related Service Providers (SLP, OT, PT) 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 Related Service Providers will deliver services according to a student's service 
delivery grid.  
 Related Service Providers should coordinate services and delivery times with 
the student’s liaison and classroom teacher(s) to reduce overlap and to reduce 
the number of staff and students in a room.  
 Consults with parents or teachers may be conducted via Zoom or phone calls to 
adhere to social distancing and/or avoid additional people entering the building 
(*67 or google voice can be used to keep your cell phone number private) 
 Any changes in the delivery of services from the IEP service delivery grid, need 
to be communicated to the student’s liaison.  
 SLPs may need to use other alternatives with PPEs when working with 
students.  Clear barrier/dividers for each school and clear masks will be 
ordered.  If other alternatives may be needed, please let administration know.    
Expectations for BCBAs 
===PAGE 13===
12 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 Utilize a combination of in-person, videotaped or live-feed 
observations.  Videotaped and live-feed observations will reduce the number of 
adults in the classroom and minimize the observation-effect on students.  
 Migrate paper-based data collection systems to digital systems to avoid the 
need for shared clipboards/papers/writing utensils between staff members.   
 Provide Professional Development with an emphasis on newly developed safety 
procedures and the use of positive reinforcement when supporting students 
with increased expectations.  
 Develop and share class-wide behavior intervention plans that can be used to 
reward classes of students for following their new expectations.   
 Consults with parents may be conducted via Zoom or phone calls to avoid 
additional people entering the building (*67 or google voice can be used to keep 
your cell phone number private) 
 Identify students who have had significant social/behavioral regression due to 
their time away from the school environment.   
 Work with families of students who engage in school refusal due to the length 
of time they have been away from the school environment.   
 Review Behavior Intervention Plans to ensure they conform with new health 
practices including the use of the Cool Down Room.   
 Review and make appropriate changes to behavior intervention plans for 
students who did not fully participate in remote learning and have developed 
strong escape behaviors related to participating in academic, social or 
behavioral expectations within the school environment.  
 Work with mental health providers to identify students who have experienced 
trauma or loss during this period of school closure so that the information may 
be considered when conducting FBAs or when reviewing or developing 
behavior intervention plans.   
 Write or share already prepared social stories related to wearing PPE, social 
distancing, and other healthy practices.   
 Work with the ACE teacher, DDS, and Mass Rehab to identify changes in post-
ACE options for students reaching their 22nd birthday.   
 Working with the ACE teacher, identify vocational opportunities for ACE 
students within the Lunenburg Public Schools.   
 Include Remote Learning sections, as appropriate, to upcoming FBAs and BIPs 
to address behavioral challenges and strategies that can be employed when 
working with a student in both environments.  
 When possible, create virtual materials to run discrete trials and other 
programming.  This may be used in combination or instead of physical 
materials during the school year. 
 Review and adapt CDR procedures to comply with CDC recommendations, if 
needed.  
Expectations for Social Workers/Guidance 
===PAGE 14===
13 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 Provide supportive counseling and consultation for teachers who are struggling 
with issues related to the virus and confinement. Refer staff to community and 
system agencies 
 Assist as a member of the BHAC team to identify students who have lost a close 
family member or relative to COVID-19. Triage for supportive services as 
needed. 
 Check-in with emotionally vulnerable students as they return to school to 
assess their level of functioning 
 Consult with teachers, school counselors, parents, and school social workers to 
deliver services to students who display outward signs of trauma 
 Provide therapeutic interventions for students who need service for depression, 
anxiety, fear, and loss 
 Co-teach social emotional learning strategies to help students adjust to the 
changes in their environments 
 Assist teachers with celebrating individual student resilience (What I did 
during the virus to be safe…) 
 Develop classroom guidance lessons on gratefulness lessons on how to help 
others at a safe distance.  
 Provide individual counseling to students who express fears, loss, anxiety, 
and/or signs of depression 
 Provide classroom lessons on school expectations and structure to help 
students re-adjust to a full school schedule 
 Create materials for parents regarding their fears and how to deal with those 
fears. Share materials with parents on how to talk to their children about 
managing change and about managing feelings during times of stress. 
Expectations for School Psychologists 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 Consult with teachers as students return to identify classroom interventions for 
individual students as appropriate 
 Consult with teachers and administration on school-wide behavioral needs of 
students and work with the teacher support team to provide supports 
 Provide supportive counseling and consultation for teachers who are struggling 
with issues related to the virus and confinement. Refer staff to community and 
system agencies 
 Assist as a member of the BHAC team to identify students who have lost a close 
family member or relative to COVID-19. Triage for supportive services as 
needed. 
 Check-in with emotionally vulnerable students as they return to school to 
assess their level of functioning 
 Meet with students to complete assessments and write reports 
 Consult with teachers, school counselors, parents, and school social workers to 
deliver services to students who display outward signs of trauma 
===PAGE 15===
14 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 Chair IEP meetings as directed by the Director of Special Services according to 
learning model 
Expectations for Students 
 All PPE protocols and requirements must be adhered to   
 Respect and be mindful of health and safety concerns for yourself and others. 
 Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching your face. 
 Wear a mask or face covering outside of designated mask break times.  
 Sit in assigned seats in classrooms. 
 Remain at least 3 feet away from other students in the classroom and hallways 
with a mask on and 6 feet away from all others when taking a mask break or at 
lunch (K-6). 
 Follow the building rules for lunches, passing times, mask breaks, and 
bathroom protocols. 
 Students in grades 6-12 will have designated times when they can access their 
lockers; masks will be worn. 
 Primary and elementary students will only be allowed to store clothing and 
lunches in lockers and cubbies. Backpacks will be stored in classrooms (grades 
3-5). 
 Water bottle use will be limited to mask or bathroom breaks. 
 Bring Chromebooks to and from school (grades 6-12) and to have the devices 
charged. 
 Take care of the technology provided to them. If there is an issue with the 
device or connectivity, they should let their teacher(s) know ASAP. 
 Must be proactive in letting teachers know if they need more support or 
guidance in any area or having difficulties with PPEs. 
 English Language Learners, any questions should be directed to the ESL 
teacher/team 
Expectations for Parents/Families 
 If child(ren) are unable to adhere to PPE protocols and requirements (including 
mask wearing), please notify the school and your child’s special education 
liaison ASAP. 
 If there are other issues/IEP concerns that may arise, please reach out to school 
and/or liaison sooner rather than later so that we can work together to resolve 
concern(s).  
 Parents are asked to provide a mask for each of their children, every day.  If you 
are unable to do, please contact the school ASAP. 
 Please make sure all contact information is kept up to date in PowerSchool and 
that you regularly check your emails for any new information that may be 
distributed. If you need assistance managing or navigating PowerSchool to keep 
your information up to date, please contact the front office.  
 Special Services family webpage should be checked for new updates frequently   
===PAGE 16===
15 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 English Language Learners, any questions/concerns should be directed to the 
ESL teacher/team. 
 
 
 
Out-of-School Time Plan 
 
Academic Supports 
 
Online learning platforms (i.e. iReady, Reading A to Z, IXL) can be accessed by students 
and families flexibly. Curated online resources with guidance will be made available to 
families through an online listing at the school/district website that support 
independent reading, literacy games, and math games. 
 
After school and/or before school tutoring may be offered based on safety, facility 
capacity and availability, availability of staff, and family interest. Tier II math and 
reading support will be provided to identified students in grades 1- 5 using specialized 
intervention programming (i.e. structured literacy framework, Leveled Literacy 
Intervention, iReady Math focused on numeracy, place value and proportional 
reasoning).  Core, Tier I, reading, writing and phonics/word study will follow a 
workshop instructional framework with distancing regulations as determined by the 
district.  
 
Intervention blocks will be utilized to provide strategic interventions and support for 
students during the school day.  Teachers may provide extra help for students (grades 6-
12) before or after school. 
 
Extracurricular Programs 
 
Masks will be mandatory for after school activities.  All safety protocols implemented 
during the school day will also be implemented during after school activities.  No 
students will be allowed to attend activities if experiencing symptoms.  School 
administration will meet with staff in September to go over all after school activities; 
rules, expectations, and safety precautions.  All advisors must complete the Human 
Resources mandatory COVID-19 safety training. 
 
Athletics 
LPS Athletics will implement the COVID-19 protocols issued by MIAA, DESE, Midland 
Wachusett League, and Governor.   
===PAGE 17===
16 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
All safety protocols implemented during the school day will be followed during 
activities.  Training is required for all coaches.  No students will be allowed to attend 
games/practices if experiencing symptoms. 
Extended Day and Early Learning Center 
The programs will run a safe and healthy extended academic and social learning 
environment for the students.  The Extended Day Program is a before and after school 
program.  The Early Learning center is a playschool program for 3 to 5 year-olds. Our 
capacity to offer all these programs may be limited by staffing resources, bus 
transportation, and revenue to cover operating expenses.  The protocol adopted in this 
plan will follow CDC guidance.  
The programs will follow all expectations and guidelines of the Lunenburg School 
District to ensure safety for all students, staff and families. In addition to routine 
training, staff will receive Covid-19 training within the program and complete all 
training required by the district. 
Staff will disinfect areas at the end of the morning and afternoon sessions, at the end of 
the day and throughout the day as needed.  Staff will disinfect tables and food 
preparation areas before and after use.  Frequently touched surfaces, which includes: 
door knobs, light switches, desks/tables and faucets will be disinfected daily. Director 
and staff will create individual play stations and crafts to aid in social distancing.  
Staff will wash or use hand sanitizer with 60%+ alcohol throughout the day as needed. 
Hand sanitizer, tissues, disinfecting wipes and gloves will be available in all rooms. 
Disposable masks will be available for any student/staff that does not have one. Age-
appropriate signage will be posted reminding students and staff to follow the proper 
health and safety protocols, these protocols will include: handwashing before and after 
snack and lunch, before and after toileting, in between toy use. The age-appropriate 
signage will be placed in the following areas: hand washing/sanitizing stations, 
bathrooms, entry/exits, eating areas, mask break areas, classrooms, hallways and in 
areas with frequently shared equipment. 
Staff will wear gloves when administering first aid, assisting with toileting, food 
preparation, handling any bodily fluids, during safety transports.  
Staff will provide their own masks and they will be required to wear a mask at all times 
with breaks for eating and drinking.  Children will bring their own mask or a disposable 
one will be available if they do not have one.  Children will be required to wear a mask 
with frequent breaks throughout the day.  Parents will be required to wear masks when 
dropping off and picking up their child.  
Staff will keep a safe 6 foot distance whenever possible.  Parents will maintain a safe 6 
foot distance and obey distance markers to follow a path to the sign in/out area.  
Children will keep a distance of 6 feet when possible, but will always keep a distance of 
at least 3 feet from other children if wearing a mask. 
===PAGE 18===
17 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Staff, parents and children will enter at the same entrance and maintain a safe 6 foot 
distance. 
Hand sanitizer will be placed at the entrance for parents to use upon entering/exiting 
the building. 
A clear shield will be in place for the staff assigned to the door at the sign in/out area. 
Two jars will be provided for writing instruments used to sign children in and out. These 
jars will be clearly labeled clean/dirty and will be cleaned between uses. Staff assigned to 
the door will be responsible for cleaning the instruments. 
In classrooms, all children will face the same direction while at their tables or desks and 
will be placed at a safe 3 foot distance from each other while engaging in activities, crafts 
or homework. 
Staff and children will remain in the same groups and rooms for indoor and outdoor 
time in order to reduce the potential for the virus to spread between groups.  A schedule 
will be implemented for outdoor time when applicable.  
Covid-19 symptoms will be posted and reviewed with all staff and parents. These 
symptoms will include fever, cough, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, unexplained rash, 
fatigue, headache, abdominal pain, loss of smell/taste, shortness of breath/difficulty 
breathing, new muscle aches or any other signs of illness.  
Any child that becomes sick, or exhibits Covid-19 symptoms will be isolated and a 
parent will be notified for pick up.  The child will isolate in a separate space to prevent 
further exposure to the other children.  If a nurse is present, she will be called for 
assessment of the child and if necessary, isolate the child and contact parent for 
dismissal. 
Staff will be sent home if experiencing Covid-19 symptoms while at work.  Staff will be 
instructed not to report to work if not feeling well.  A training for staff to recognize 
Covid-19 symptoms will be provided. 
Community Links Program 
 
This is a grant funded program under the Department of Early Education and Care 
(EEC). Parents will receive all the services of the Coordinated Family and Community 
Engagement FY 22’ Grant as written and approved by EEC remotely as well as on 
campus. 
 
 
We will have a mix of remote and “on campus” programming.  As we see this is 
important to engage face to face with families, we will be utilizing outdoor space 
following our funding source EEC.  The program will include: 
 Two days on campus for parent/child interactive learning groups all held 
outdoors behind program room at TCP. 
===PAGE 19===
18 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 One day for parent/child interactive learning groups in collaboration with the 
Lunenburg Public Library held outdoors at the Library. 
 In the case of inclement weather, we will offer a Google online program. 
 One live remote “parent chat” will be provided monthly. 
 One live remote Parent Education workshop will be provided monthly.  
 Ages and Stages Developmental screening may be conducted online, outdoors, 
and, if necessary, in the office; however, parents will be required to access the 
office directly via the exterior office door, not through the main entrance at TCP. 
 Free learning materials will be supplied by EEC such as children’s books and 
resource materials. DPH and EEC will be notified as to these distributions. 
 There will no longer be field trips until approved by EEC. 
Expectations for parents/adults  
 Parents and staff will wear protective masks. 
 Parents will receive a safety and health protocol contract with guidelines to be 
signed prior to registration. Parents will sign contract outlining guidelines.  
 Parents will be asked to leave the program if a parent or child appears to be ill. 
 
Expectation for staff 
 All staff will adhere to all safety measures set forth by EEC and the Lunenburg 
School District.  
 We will continue to engage in EEC and school webinars, training, conferences 
around COVID 19 training and curriculum-based programming.  
 Staff will continue to work the hours that were approved by EEC through our FY 
22’ Grant whether on campus or remote.  
 Staff will continue to post our information about services as well as our resources 
through a weekly email to families; on our Facebook Page and on You Tube and 
on the Lunenburg Schools and EEC websites.  
 Staff will utilize Zoom for Parent Chats and Parent Education and we use Google 
Meets for our remote parent/child interactive groups. 
 Staff will continue to follow all DESE, EEC and Lunenburg School procedures 
and training as needed. 
 Staff supervision will be both on-site and remote as needed. 
 
Expectation for students 
 Our children are birth-age 5; per EEC children age 2+ years will be mandated to 
wear masks.   
 We have followed a strict protocol for years regarding children/adult/family 
health for entering and engaging in our program.  We will include additional 
information from EEC and Board of Health.  This has and will continue to be 
displayed in our parent/child room and is posted on our website, FB page and 
parents must read and sign a contract. 
Safety protocols 
 Cleaning: We meet three times per week and will be decreasing our program 
time from 2 hours to 90 minutes which allows us time to properly clean and 
sterilize furniture, bathroom and toys.  We have removed many of our toys that 
===PAGE 20===
19 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
we would be unable to clean daily.  We meet Mondays, Tuesdays (online) and 
Fridays which will also allow time to clean.   
 Nursing: We do not have a nurse on duty and parents and staff monitor 
children.  As stated in our guidelines, staff will ask families to leave the program 
if we suspect an illness of any type. 
 Student-student interaction: Our children are very young and staff and parents 
will need to be fully engaged with children to help maintain a safe 
distance.  There will no longer be a “snack table” and the program will no longer 
provide snacks to children.  Any snack brought in by a parent must be supervised 
by the parent/staff.  Any craft that is provided by our program will adhere to all 
safety precautions and will be individually bagged and sealed. 
 Student-staff interaction: As always, staff will need to be observant to ensure 
safety of all children/families.  We will utilize outdoor space as much as possible 
weather permitting. All staff and parents will wear a mask at all times.   
 Arrival/dismissal: Families will need to adhere to time of program arriving 
promptly when program starts and leaving promptly at the close of 
programming. Parents will bring children to back of the TCP School following the 
path and not enter the building. Children and parents may use the restroom 
located in the program room entering from outside and returning back outside 
promptly. Following the parent/child program, any information needed by a 
family can be addressed. If additional time is needed by a family for information 
and referral or for other parenting needs, an appointment should be scheduled 
with staff.  Program will decrease in time from 120 minutes down to 90 minutes 
to allow for proper cleaning of room and toys. 
 Physical distancing: We have removed much of the toys, furniture, and 
equipment to allow distancing and will utilize outdoor space as directed at this 
time by EEC.  
 
Student Supports and Professional Learning 
 
Behavioral Health  
 
The COVID-19 pandemic has had an extraordinary impact on student, staff, teacher, 
and family emotional well-being. Over the past year, all are managing more stress at 
home, less social connection, and adapting to new ways of learning and teaching in a 
remote or virtual environment. For those with underlying mental illness or previous 
trauma, symptoms may be exacerbated as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For 
others, COVID-19 may have impacted their emotional well-being as an unprecedented 
trauma response. 
 
Behavioral health recommendations have been made as a part of this plan in the best 
interest of student, staff, teacher, and family mental health, social, and emotional well-
being. While systematic barriers may exist, procedures, protocols, and 
recommendations that are feasible within the district are included.  Now, more than 
===PAGE 21===
20 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
ever, adaptations to current thinking around mental health need to change.  A 
Behavioral Health forward culture is vital to ensure support recommendations are 
implemented with integrity by staff at every tier to best support our students. Student, 
staff, teacher, and community physical and emotional safety are the top priority during 
reopening of the 2021-22 school year and must come before academic progress can be 
resumed. 
 
Multi-Tiered Support System 
In an effort to best support students across our district, the Behavioral Health task 
group of the Lunenburg Public Schools’ Reopen Planning Team met in the summer of 
2020. This task force outlined a multi-tiered social emotional support approach for the 
2020-21 school year. This model will continue to be the recommended support 
approach and has been modified and strengthened for the 2021-22 school year.  
Lunenburg Public Schools utilized ESSER grant money and restructuring to fund 
additional positions to better equip the district to support students need at every tier. 
Three social work/adjustment counselor positions were added so that each building now 
has a dedicated, full time clinical support. Additionally, two guidance/school counselors 
were added (one at MS and one at HS).  
 
All concepts for student support outlined below are applicable for all learning models: 
remote, hybrid, or in person.  
 
Tier 1: Universal Supports 
In an effort to provide a proactive approach to identifying at risk students, Behavioral 
Health Support Teams (BHST) have been established within each building. These teams 
are made up of behavioral health support staff such as social worker/adjustment 
counselors, school psychologists, guidance/school counselors, nurses, and 
administration. The building based BHST teams will be led by building based social 
work/adjustment counselors. Vulnerable students will be identified via referrals from 
school staff (Behavioral Health Support Team Referral form) or other risk factors such 
as requiring additional support during the previous school year, having been identified 
through universal mental health screenings (run only at Lunenburg High School in 
2020 and 2021), identified via IEP/504 or known mental health diagnosis, lack of 
engagement/attendance, or other known risk factors such as parent/guardian mental 
health or substance abuse, neglect, food insecurity, or housing instability. 
 
It is vital that teachers and classroom staff are equipped with the tools and resources to 
provide social emotional and trauma informed best practice via Tier 1 interventions in 
their classrooms daily. Throughout the 2020-21 school year, teachers were offered 
various professional development opportunities to better equip them with tools to 
support student mental health needs. Continued educational opportunities will exist for 
teachers in the 2021-22 school year. It is a continued recommended that teachers put 
academic assessments and rigor aside and utilize the initial days of school to focus on 
educating students on new expectations, build rapport, create a safe environment, and 
reestablish connection.  
 
===PAGE 22===
21 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Trails to Wellness, an evidenced based social and emotional wellness curriculum, will be 
piloted in the 2021-22 school year in select classrooms K-12. This tier 1 curriculum is 
rooted in cognitive behavioral ideology and covers the 5 social and emotional 
competencies identified by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional 
Learning (CASEL): self-management, self-awareness, social awareness, responsible 
decision-making, and relationship skills. CASEL’s competences are endorsed by the 
Massachusetts’s Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). 
 
 
Tier 2: Targeted Interventions 
Specific interventions will be available for all students but are targeted for those 
requiring additional support.  Behavioral health support staff will offer “drop in” or 
“office hours” that will be made public to all students. Students and parents/guardians 
will be asked to email the school counselor, psychologist, or social worker/adjustment 
counselor directly to set up an appointment during these hours. If a “drop in” session is 
completed via a telehealth/remote on Google Meet, proper consent will be required. 
 
INTERFACE, a mental health referral hotline, will continue to be accessible to all 
residents of Lunenburg. INTERFACE helps connect individuals to a variety of 
behavioral health services based on insurance, availability, and presenting needs. 
INTERFACE is available Monday through Friday, 9am-5pm at 888-244-6843. 
 
Care Solace is a mental health referral service accessible by students, families, and staff. 
Care Solace can be accessed online via self-initiation or with support from LPS 
behavioral health staff in beginning a “warm handoff”. After receiving parental consent, 
a LPS staff member will begin this process by inputting basic information. From there, a 
Care Solace team member will take over and begin connecting families to mental health 
services in person or via telehealth based on insurance, availability, and presenting 
needs. This service is available 24/7, 365 days a year: www.caresolace.com/site/lps or 
888-515-0595. 
 
Emotional support animal programs will be available across the district. Open office 
hours will be available for drop in support for both students and staff. All physical 
distancing guidelines will be followed including utilization of outdoor space whenever 
possible. 
 
Tier 2 groups utilizing evidence based curriculum will be run at various grade levels by 
guidance/school counselors and social worker/adjustment counselors. These small 
groups will provide additional social, emotional, and behavioral support for identified 
students.  
 
Tier 3: Individualized Support 
Behavioral Health Support Team (BHST) will determine which students are most 
vulnerable or require more intense clinical interventions and case management in 
school. These supports will be determined on a case by case basis and individualized 
services will be provided by guidance/school counselors, school psychologists, and 
social worker/adjustment counselors.  
===PAGE 23===
22 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 
Assessments & Implementation Timeline 
 
The Behavioral Health Support Teams (BHST) within each building will be leaders in 
helping teachers identify and assess at risk students in their classrooms.  If a teacher is 
concerned about a student’s behavior or presentation in class, a Behavioral Health 
Support Team Referral form can be filled out by a staff member and given to a member 
of the BHST.  Teachers are encouraged to make an attempt to reach out to the student 
and/or parent/guardian before making a referral.  The BHST will review the referred 
student at their meeting and determine what follow up interventions are appropriate.  
This will include additional follow up with parents and guardians to provide resources 
or obtain consent to offer in school supports.  
 
In 2020 and 2021, Universal Mental Health Screenings were conducted with all 
students, grades 9-12. Evidence based assessment tools were used to measure symptoms 
of depression via the PHQ-9 and anxiety via the GAD-7.  Screenings were not mandatory 
and parents/guardians could opt their child out.  These screenings were confidential, 
but not anonymous as students who screened in via moderate or severe level symptoms 
on either assessment were followed up with by a school staff member to provide support 
and resources.  Plans to conduct another round of these screenings will be reassessed 
and an implementation timeline will be developed at Lunenburg High School. 
Additionally, BHST building staff with the support of the district Behavioral Health 
Coordinator will look to expand these screenings across other grade levels in the district 
using age appropriate, evidence based screening tools. 
 
Procedures & Protocols  
Behavioral health procedures and protocols are being universalized across the district to 
ensure crisis response is provided in the most effective manner.  Teachers and staff will 
be trained on all procedures and new protocols to ensure compliance.  
 
Consent for Telehealth / Remote Online Services (IF NEEDED) 
In extreme circumstances that result in interruptions to in person learning and support, 
consent for telehealth and remote support will be outlined for families.  Lunenburg 
Public Schools has adopted Google Meet as their preferred platform of use as it meets all 
HIPAA and FERPA regulations.  This consent letter will be sent to parents in coming 
weeks as part of all student’s orientation paperwork. All services outlined in this consent 
form are voluntary support services that are available to all students or may be provided 
as part of a student’s Individualized Education Plan (IEP) or 504. These services 
include: telehealth or virtual counseling with guidance/school counselor, school 
psychologist, or social worker/adjustment counselor, one to one academic support with 
a teacher or paraprofessional, check in support with school resource officer and 
emotional support dog, and small group or one to one specialist service provided by 
BCBA, SLP, OT, or PT. If parents/guardians would like to opt their child out of any of 
these services they are instructed to email their child’s guidance/school counselor 
directly and specify which service they do not want their child participating in via 
remote or telehealth. 
 
===PAGE 24===
23 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Student Safety Concern & Mental Health Emergency Response Team 
All staff will be trained in identifying student safety concerns in both remote and in 
person instruction settings.  Staff will be provided with an outline of examples of 
student safety concerns (i.e. making direct statements about suicide, feeling unsafe, etc.) 
and concerning behaviors, difficulty or feeling overwhelmed (i.e. concerning context in 
an assignment, mentioning feelings of being overwhelmed with expectations, 
mentioning difficulty at home, etc.). In addition, action steps are outlined for staff given 
both circumstances and variations of response based on remote versus in person 
learning. 
 
In addition, BHST will be re-trained in Mental Health Emergency Response Protocols. 
This includes assessing risk level, providing proper documentation, developing safety 
plans, and determining if a clinical evaluation is warranted at a local hospital.  
 
Student Outreach / Wellness Check Protocol 
Staff will be expected to proactively reach out to families for overall wellness checks 
throughout the school year.  It is being recommended that teachers reach out to their 
students for non-academic check-ins at frequently to form positive relationships with 
both students and families.  This will also assist in proactively identifying students who 
may require an additional wellness check by behavioral health support staff. 
 
If staff become concerned about a student due to lack of attendance or engagement, they 
must attempt to contact students and families first. If staff cannot successfully make 
contact with students or their families after two attempts within a week, they will then 
refer the case to the student’s assigned guidance/school counselor for follow up. 
Guidance/school counselors will be expected to attempt to contact families and 
determine needs to access learning or supports. Necessary resources may include IT, 
school nurse, behavioral health support staff, housing, food, etc.  If guidance/school 
counselors are unsuccessful in their outreach, building administrators will be contacted.  
Building administration will attempt outreach and if unsuccessful, collaboration with 
the school resource officer will be made to determine if a wellness check at the home is 
necessary. If a home visit is needed, the school resource officer and a staff member 
(TBD) will go together to the student’s home for a wellness check. This will be conducted 
outdoors and both the staff member and school resource officer will be expected to 
maintain appropriate physical distancing and wear proper personal protective 
equipment. 
 
Restraint Procedures & Protocols 
The district will continue to implement de-escalation strategies to avoid the need for 
physical escorts or physical restraints. When, despite the use of all appropriate de-
escalation strategies, a student becomes an immediate danger to themself, peers, or staff 
members, Crisis Prevention Institute's (CPI) Non-Violent Crisis Intervention 
techniques, ranging from escorts to physical restraints will be utilized. Staff will be 
expected to take additional safety precautions if physical management is required. 
 
Required Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
===PAGE 25===
24 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Recommended PPE will range given the individualized circumstances to which staff are 
working with students. All staff and students will be required to wear a cloth or 
disposable mask at all times within the building. Additional equipment will be needed 
when working with students whether through behavior or ability present with an 
increased risk of aerosol or bodily fluid contact. This includes face shields, gloves, gown-
like items, and N95 masks. This type of additional PPE will be required during any sort 
of physical restraint or escort of a student. 
 
Staff Support & Trainings 
It is important to note that staff’s emotional and physical health may have also been 
impacted by school closure and COVID-19 pandemic. It is important that staff self-care 
is promoted while also providing resources and various training opportunities to create 
safe and supportive classrooms and working environments. Through our Human 
Resources and Operations department, Employee Assistance Program benefits 
including mental health supports will be provided to all staff. INTERFACE is applicable 
to any resident of Lunenburg and Care Solace can be accessible by employees, students, 
and families. Additionally, the emotional support animal programs will also be 
accessible by staff as needed. 
 
 
Curriculum, Assessment, & Intervention  
 
Curriculum  
 
Lunenburg Public Schools updated our scope and sequence documents and assessment 
schedules for grades K-12, and we will build upon these progressions for the 2021-2022 
school year, ensuring that all students receive consistent grade level instruction and 
work, with targeted scaffolds to make it accessible.   Teachers will review assessment 
data, identify unfinished learning, adjust pacing, and determine appropriate supports 
necessary for students to access content.  Consistent access to grade-level assignments 
for all students and strong instructional practices will help students to master grade-
level academic standards.  Analysis of diagnostic data and examining student work will 
help teachers to plan for teaching and learning. Our curriculum coordinators will assist 
content area curriculum teams in auditing taught and learned grade-level standards and 
in identifying and removing gaps in instruction and learning. 
 
 
Assessment & Interventions 
 
We will conduct early assessments using universal screening tools, academic diagnostic 
assessments, teacher-developed assessments, and best practices to determine strengths 
and weaknesses, as well as to identify any unfinished learning.  Teachers will then meet 
to analyze the results of the testing, identify individual strengths and weaknesses, and 
plan and develop strategies and lessons to address individual student needs.  
Intervention specialists, tutors, teachers, and special services staff will provide targeted 
tier II and III interventions to further support students. 
 
===PAGE 26===
25 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Diagnostic Testing Per School Building  
School ELA Math 
Primary iReady 
DRA 
 
iReady 
Everyday Math 
THES iReady 
DRA 
 
iReady 
Everyday Math 
LMS iReady iReady 
LHS Teacher-made Assessments IXL 
 
 
 
Staff Professional Development 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools will provide staff professional development and teacher 
preparation and planning time throughout the 2021-2022 school year.  Professional 
development days, faculty meeting time, and common planning time will include 
professional learning and training in the following areas: 
 
 Curriculum audit and adjustment to curriculum scope and sequence 
 iReady data analysis and differentiated instruction in reading and math 
 Mathematical discourse routines to deepen conceptual understanding in math 
 Trails to Wellness social emotional learning curriculum and resources 
 Tier 1, 2, & 3 intervention (academic and social-emotional) 
 Diversity, equity, and inclusion  
 LETRS literacy training  
 Evaluating and selecting high-quality instructional materials (through DESE 
network) 
 iReady Classroom materials pilot 
 DESE Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) Literacy Academy 
 DESE MTSS Social Emotional Learning Academy 
 Mass Literacy Guide 
 Civics and DESE Civics Workbook 
 Social studies practices through inquiry and primary sources 
 Dyslexia 
 Phonics instruction 
 Calkins Units of Study 
 Navigating sensitive conversations 
 Building background knowledge 
 English language learner strategies 
===PAGE 27===
26 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 Building safety routines and protocols   
 Mandated reporter obligations 
 Training on suicide prevention policy 
 Training on anti-bullying policy 
 Cybersecurity 
 Maintaining professional boundaries with students and families through 
electronic communication 
 Navigating PowerSchool 
 De-escalation strategies  
 ClassTag Communication System 
 
===PAGE 28===
27 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 
LUNENBURG  PUBLIC  SCHOOLS
2021-2022 SCHOOL CALENDAR  
APPROVED 3/17/21, REVISED 6/21/21
AUGUST/ SEPTEMBER 8/30 All Faculty and Staff Report- PD FEBRUARY
M T W TH F 8/31-9/2 First Days of School for Students Grades 1-12 M T W TH F
30 31 1 2 3 9/3 & 9/6-Labor Day Break-Schools Closed 1 2 3 4
6 7 8 9 10 9/7 First Day of Pre-K & Kindergarten 7 8 9 10 11
13 14 15 16 17 9/8 THES Open House Grades 3-5 14 15 16 17 18
20 21 22 23 24 9/14 Primary Open House Grades  PreK-2 21 22 23 24 25
27 28 29 30 9/16 LMS Open House Grades 6-8 28
21 days 9/28 Early Release Day 15 days
9/30 LHS Open House Grades 9-12
OCTOBER MARCH
M T W TH F M T W TH F
1 1 2 3 4
4 5 6 7 8 10/4-10/8 Nature's Classroom(typically ) 7 8 9 10 11
11 12 13 14 15 10/11 Columbus Day-Schools Closed 14 15 16 17 18
18 19 20 21 22 10/19 Early Release LMHS PT Conferences Grades 6-12 21 22 23 24 25
25 26 27 28 29 10/26 LMHS PT Evening Conferences Grades 6-12 28 29 30 31
20 days 22 days
 11/2 Election Day-Full PD Day-Schools Closed
NOVEMBER 11/8 THES PT Evening Conferences Grades 3-5 APRIL
M T W TH F 11/9 Early Release  THES PT Conferences Grades 3-5 M T W TH F
1 2 3 4 5 11/10 Primary PT Evening Conferences Grades PreK-2 1
8 9 10 11 12 11/11 Veteran's Day-Schools Closed 4 5 6 7 8
15 16 17 18 19 11/12 Early Release Primary PT  Conferences Grades K-2 11 12 13 14 15
22 23 24 25 26 11/24-Early Release-Thanksgiving Recess 18 19 20 21 22
29 30 11/25-11/26-Thanksgiving Recess-Schools Closed 25 26 27 28 29
18 days 16 days
DECEMBER MAY
M T W TH F 12/24-1/2 Winter Break-Schools Closed M T W TH F
1 2 3 Classes Resume 1/3  2 3 4 5 6
6 7 8 9 10 1/14-Early Release PD 9 10 11 12 13
13 14 15 16 17 1/17-MLK Jr.'s Birthday-Schools Closed 16 17 18 19 20
20 21 22 23 24 23 24 25 26 27
27 28 29 30 31  30 31
17 days 21 days
JANUARY 2/21-2/25-February Break-Schools Closed JUNE
M T W TH F 3/11-Full PD Day-Schools Closed M T W TH F
3 4 5 6 7 4/18-4/22-April Break-Schools Closed 1 2 3
10 11 12 13 14 6 7 8 9 10
17 18 19 20 21 5/30- Memorial Day-Schools Closed 13 14 15 16 17
24 25 26 27 28 5/23-5/27-Washington D.C. Trip 20 21 22 23 24
31 6/ 4 Graduation(tentative) 27 28 29 30
20 days 6/14-180th day of school-Early Release 10 days =180th day
CODE: 6/21-185th day of school (assuming 5 weather/emergency days, however any canceled 
No School / Holiday
Early Release
Early Release Times by Building:
1st term ends  11/5/2021
2nd term ends  1/21/2022
3rd term ends  4/1/2022 ]
6-12  11:30 a.m.  
                         Extended School Year:
         7/12-7/15/2021                       7/11-7/14/2022           
         7/19-7/22/2021                       7/18-7/21/2022   
         8/2-8/5/2021                           8/1-8/4/2022
         8/9-8/12/2021                         8/8-8/11/2022              
K- 2 12:20 p.m.
3-5   12:10 p.m.
                days in excess of 5 would also be required to be made up)
===PAGE 29===
28 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Other Operations 
 
Health Services 
 
The health, safety, and well-being of the students and staff of the Lunenburg Public 
Schools (LPS) is our top priority. LPS is implementing guidelines from the Centers for 
Disease Control (CDC), Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education (DESE) and the Department of Public Health (DPH) in consultation with the 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health (NABH) and guidance of best practice from the 
National Association of School Nurses (NASN) and the Massachusetts School Nurse 
Organization (MSNO) and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP),. 
 
The Nursing Coordinator will serve as the Health and Safety Officer for COVID for the 
district and as a liaison from the LPS to the NABH. The Nursing Coordinator/Health 
and Safety Officer for COVID (NC/HSO) will monitor the case numbers and rates in 
Lunenburg and neighboring communities, as well as vaccination rates in schools and the 
town. LPS Nursing Staff will monitor the attendance rates and clinic visits as part of the 
illness surveillance rates. Communication will be shared with the school community via 
the Superintendent's updates and the LPS COVID-19 Dashboard. The plan will be 
continuously evaluated based on information we learn about the virus, the rates of 
transmission within the community and new or changing guidance from CDC, DPH, 
DESE or any other governing agency.  
 
Massachusetts COVID-19 Response Reporting 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-response-reporting 
 
Lunenburg Public School COVID-19 Dashboard 
https://sites.google.com/lunenburgschools.net/lps-covid-19/home 
 
Massachusetts COVID-19 Vaccine 
https://www.mass.gov/covid-19-vaccine 
 
To support a culture of health and safety, schools must have reliable ways to 
communicate with all families, students, teachers, and staff in order to send and receive 
key messages related to COVID-19. Current phone numbers and email addresses are 
essential to facilitate prompt communication with families. Families need to provide the 
school with reliable emergency contacts, indicating individuals who will be able to come 
to the school and pick up their child if they become sick during the school day. Families 
will be asked to update PowerSchool, as needed. Systems will be developed to encourage 
on line completion and submission of Emergency Contact Medical Form prior to the 
first day of school for students. Dismissing sick children (and staff) in a timely fashion is 
imperative for the safety of all.  
 
Masks 
The 2021-2022 school-year will begin with universal masking; all staff and students 
wear masks indoors regardless of vaccination status. Masks will not be required for 
===PAGE 30===
29 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
students who cannot do so due to medical conditions or behavioral needs. Masks are not 
necessary outdoors and may be removed while eating indoors. 
By federal public health order, all students and staff are required to wear masks on 
school buses at this time.                                                                                                                                        
 
All staff and students must wear masks while in school health offices.  
 
Masks CDC 
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/about-face-coverings.html  
 
Hand Hygiene 
Hand hygiene is critical. Students and staff are required to exercise hand hygiene (hand 
washing or sanitizing) upon arrival to school, before eating, before putting on and taking 
off masks, and before dismissal. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-
based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol, and wash with soap and water 
as soon as you can. Hand Sanitizer stations will be placed strategically throughout the 
buildings and available in all classrooms and offices. 
 
Handwashing/Hand Sanitizer CDC 
https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/bam/child-development/how-to-wash-hands.htm  
 
Physical Distancing 
Physical distance greatly reduces the risk of transmission. As COVID-19 is transmitted 
through respiratory droplets, putting distance between yourself and others reduces risk. 
In classroom settings and throughout the school students will maintain a distance to the 
greatest extent possible. 
 
Physical Distancing CDC 
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/social-distancing.html 
 
Daily Self-Attestation 
Staff must monitor themselves for symptoms daily and students, with the assistance of 
families, must also be monitored daily for symptoms. Staff and students must stay home 
if feeling unwell. Everyone must do their part to protect others and not come to school if 
they are exhibiting any COVID-19 symptoms or are feeling sick. 
 
All school community members should use this symptom review and questions 
BEFORE leaving home and reporting to school. 
 
1. Do you have any of the following symptoms: 
 Fever or chills 
 Cough 
 Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing 
 Fatigue 
 Muscle or body aches 
 Headache 
===PAGE 31===
30 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 New loss of taste or smell 
 Sore throat 
 Congestion or runny nose 
 Nausea or vomiting 
 Diarrhea 
2. Have you, or anyone you have been in close contact with in the last 72 hours, been 
diagnosed with COVID-19, been placed on quarantine for possible contact with COVID-
19 or have a pending test due to possible exposure? 
 
3. Have you been asked to self-isolate or quarantine by a medical professional or a local 
public health official? 
 
If your answer to any of these questions is a “yes”, please: 
 
Students: 
Call the school’s attendance line with the reason your child is out of school 
Be specific when you call- this will help the School Nurse identify illness trends  
For COVID symptoms, call your child’s primary care provider for further instructions  
 
Staff: 
Call into your administrator per usual protocol. 
Please inform the nurse at your school via email, ASAP who will be tracking illness 
trends. 
Contact your primary care provider who will determine the appropriate course of action. 
Health Office 
In order to prevent potential exposure to infectious diseases for vulnerable students 
receiving other medical treatments, all student visits to the Health Office will be triaged. 
Staff will be asked to call or radio the Health Office with a request for an ill student 
visit.  
                                                                                                                                                                            
Illness of Students/Staff During the School Day  
People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from 
mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the 
virus. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: 
 Fever or chills 
 Cough 
 Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing 
 Fatigue 
 Muscle or body aches 
 Headache 
 New loss of taste or smell 
 Sore throat 
 Congestion or runny nose 
 Nausea or vomiting 
===PAGE 32===
31 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 Diarrhea 
Whenever possible, the Health Office will be notified of any student requiring a visit to 
the nurse, before they are sent. If the student is ill, the nurse will confirm that the 
student is wearing a mask before they present to the Health Office and if needed, 
provide one immediately upon arrival. The nurse will meet the student and quickly 
triage to assess symptoms and possible need for isolation. 
Individual arrives in Health Office and is assessed for illness: 
 
If no ill symptoms, treat for presenting symptoms or injury and return to class. 
  
If an individual has illness symptoms: 
 Isolate them from well children/staff 
 Obtain History:  onset of symptoms, type of symptoms, anyone sick at home, any 
recent exposure to anyone with COVID-19, any recent travel? If so, where and 
when? 
 Assessment: Temperature, RR, physical appearance, pulse oximeter reading, 
mental status 
 If temperature above 100 degrees, dismiss immediately and refer to PCP. 
 If it is a staff member, they should notify their supervisor immediately and the 
nurse should collaborate with the Nashoba Board of Health and school 
administration to evaluate the disposition of the students in the staff member’s 
classroom.  
 Assess if the individual needs further medical evaluation and guide the staff 
member or family on how to proceed.  If the person is having difficulty breathing, 
has any chest discomfort, mental status changes, lethargy/unable to stay awake, 
and/or cyanotic- call 911. Inform dispatcher the person has symptoms consistent 
with COVID-19 and will need further evaluation. 
 
Follow up with family/staff members to see how they are feeling and if they were tested 
for COVID-19. 
  
If the individual is tested and is COVID positive, the nurse will notify the NC/HSO and 
the NABH. The NC/HSO will immediately inform the Superintendent of a positive case. 
Families and employees need to be informed of exposure while confidentiality of the 
individual is maintained.  The school nurses will collaborate with the NABH for contact 
tracing and guidance for isolation and quarantine.  
 
 
Medical Waiting Area 
 
If an individual is symptomatic on the bus or at school or tests positive for COVID-19 
while at school will be placed in a separate space reserved for symptomatic individuals. 
If a separate room is not available, or if there is more than one person with COVID 
symptoms, they will be spaced at least 6feet apart or in a separate space. Symptomatic 
students will remain under visual supervision of the school nurse.  
===PAGE 33===
32 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Symptomatic individuals will be provided a new surgical mask unless they are physically 
or behaviorally not able to wear a mask. In addition, any student who is unconscious or 
having difficulty breathing will not be masked.  
PPE for Nursing Staff 
PPE required when school nurses, health personnel, and staff enter the room of a 
student or staff with suspected or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Recommendations 
include adhering to standard precautions and using a NIOSH-approved N95 or 
equivalent or higher-level respirator (or facemask if a respirator is not available), gown, 
gloves, and eye protection. N95 fit testing is conducted annually and as needed. 
COVID-19 Scenarios 
 
Testing, tracing, and isolation 
It is important to note that testing, combined with contact tracing and isolation, helps 
control the spread of COVID-19 in Massachusetts. All individual test results, both 
positive and negative, are reported to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health 
(DPH). When a person has a positive COVID-19 test, it is the local board of health or the 
Massachusetts Community Tracing Collaborative that will reach out to provide support 
so that these individuals can remain safely in medical isolation. They will also ask for 
help to identify close contacts. These organizations will then reach out to the individual’s 
close contacts to provide important information that is aimed to stop the spread of the 
virus, including how to safely isolate/quarantine. While these organizations will provide 
support, to further assist with contact tracing the student/family and staff are asked to 
reach out to their personal contacts and notify the school. 
 
The Lunenburg Public School Nurses will collaborate with the NABH to identify 
individuals who have tested positive for COVID-19 and identify any close contacts. 
Staff and families will be notified while maintaining confidentiality in accordance with 
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).  
The NC/HSO will notify the Superintendent and will work closely with the 
Administrative Team to identify any COVID-19 cases, close contacts and determine any 
necessary actions.  
 
Self-isolation for COVID-19 positive cases is a minimum of 10 days. 
Transmission may occur from persons with COVID-19 infection who are symptomatic 
and those without symptoms. The duration of infectivity is defined as two days prior to 
symptom onset (or two days prior to a positive test if asymptomatic) through ten days 
after symptom onset and is contingent on meeting clearance from isolation as defined 
below. 
Most people who test positive and have a relatively mild illness will need to stay in self-
isolation for at least 10 days. People who test positive can resume public activities after 
10 days and once they have: 
===PAGE 34===
33 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
a. gone for 24 hours without a fever (and without taking fever-reducing medications 
like Tylenol); and 
b. experienced improvement in other symptoms (for example, their cough has 
gotten much better); and 
c. received clearance from public health authority contact tracers (the local board of 
health or Community Tracing Collaborative). 
 
Repeat testing prior to return is not recommended. Return to school should be based on 
time and symptom resolution. 
Close contacts of a positive COVID-19 case should be tested. For general 
guidance, DPH defines close contact as:i 
 Being within 6 feet of a COVID-19 case (someone who has tested positive) for a 
total of 15 minutes during a 24-hour period. Multiple brief or transitory 
interactions (less than a minute) throughout the day are unlikely to result in 15 
minutes of cumulative contact and do not meet the definition of close contact. 
Being in the same room as an individual if you are consistently separated by 6 
feet of distance does not meet the definition of a close contact.  
 Close contact can occur while being with, caring for, living with, visiting, or 
sharing a healthcare waiting area or room with a COVID-19 case, OR 
 Having direct physical contact with the person (e.g. hugging or kissing), OR 
 Sharing eating or drinking utensils, OR  
 Having direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-19 case (e.g., being 
coughed on) while not wearing recommended personal protective equipment. 
 
Please note: Decisions about who needs to quarantine after exposure to an individual 
with COVID-19 may be made in collaboration with the local board of health and/or the 
contact tracers with the Community tracing collaborative. 
As outlined in CDC and DPH guidanceii: 
 Individuals who are fully vaccinated do not need to quarantine or get tested as 
long as they do not show any symptoms. Individuals are considered fully 
vaccinated two weeks after their second dose of a two-dose series (Pfizer or 
Moderna) or two weeks after a single-dose vaccine (Johnson & Johnson).iii 
 An individual who had confirmed COVID-19 (diagnosed by a positive PCR test) 
and then becomes a close contact of someone with COVID-19 may not need to 
quarantine if:  
i. The exposure is within 90 days of the onset of their own illness and 
ii. The exposed individual is recovered and remains without COVID 
symptoms.  
As approved by EOHHS, in consultation with the Governor’s Medical Advisory Board on 
COVID-19 and other medical advisors,  
===PAGE 35===
34 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 Close contacts who were exposed to a COVID-19 positive individual in the 
classroom or on the bus while both individuals were masked do not 
have to quarantine unless they were within 3 feet of distance of the COVID-19 
positive individual for a total of 15 minutes during a 24-hour period. This does 
not apply if someone was identified as a close contact outside of the classroom or 
bus (e.g., in sports, extracurriculars, lunch, etc.) or if masks are not worn by both 
persons at the time of the exposure. All other close contacts must follow the 
standard protocol for when a close contact may return to school.                                                 
If someone tests positive 
 If a student or staff member tests positive for COVID-19, their close contacts will 
be defined as only those who have been within 6 feet of distance of the individual 
for at least fifteen minutes during a day while the person was infectious. The 
infectious period begins 2 days prior to symptom onset. If someone is 
asymptomatic, the infectious period is considered to begin 2 days prior to the 
collection of their positive test.   
 
Policy of when a close contact may return to school: All close contacts should be 
tested but must self-quarantine,iv consistent with the guidance outlined below. The local 
board of health, in consultation with the school’s COVID-19 response person, are best 
suited to advise on which quarantine option applies to a specific case. In accordance 
with the CDC, close contacts must quarantine for the time period listed below: 
 
Please note: Close contacts who were exposed to a COVID-19 positive individual in the 
classroom or on the bus while both individuals were masked do not have to quarantine 
unless they were within 3 feet of distance of the COVID-19 positive individual for a total 
of 15 minutes during a 24-hour period. Also, individuals who are fully vaccinated or who 
have had confirmed COVID-19 in the last 90 days do not need to quarantine as long as 
they do not have symptoms. 
 
 At least 7 days, provided that all of the following are satisfied: 
o They are tested (either polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or antigen test) 
on day 5 or later from their last exposure to the positive individual and 
receive a negative test result 
o They have not experienced any symptoms up to this point 
o They conduct active monitoring for symptoms through day 14, and self-
isolate if new symptoms develop  
While most exposed close contacts do not contract COVID-19, this 
quarantine option may not identify 5% of those who still have the 
potential to transmit infection after quarantine ends. In other words, 
95% of individuals who could still transmit infection after quarantine 
===PAGE 36===
35 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
ends would be identified with this strategy.v  
 
 At least 10 days, provided that all of the following are satisfied: 
o They have not experienced any symptoms up to this point 
o They conduct active monitoring for symptoms through day 14 and self-
isolate if new symptoms develop 
o No test is necessary under this option for the purposes of exiting 
quarantine 
While most exposed close contacts do not contract COVID-19, this 
quarantine option may not identify 1% of those who still have the 
potential to transmit infection after quarantine ends. In other words, 
99% of individuals who could still transmit infection after quarantine 
ends would be identified with this strategy.vi 
 
 At least 14 days after the last exposure to the person who tested positive, if: 
o They have experienced any symptoms during the quarantine period, even 
if they have a negative COVID-19 test; or 
o They are unable to conduct active monitoring of symptoms 
This option provides the maximal risk reduction.vii 
 
When individuals exit quarantine, masking and other safety measures remain critical. It 
may be best for individuals who are not able to adhere to masking and distancing to exit 
quarantine after 10 or 14 days rather than after 7 days. In addition to symptom 
monitoring, individuals exiting quarantine prior to 14 days must also take their 
temperature once daily. If even mild symptoms develop or the individual has a 
temperature of 100.0 F, they must immediately self-isolate, and contact the public 
health authority overseeing their quarantine, and be tested.  
 
Policy of when a student/staff person may return to school after COVID-19 
symptoms 
 If a student or staff member has COVID-19-like symptoms, they may return to 
school after they have received a negative PCR test result for COVID-19, have 
improvement in symptoms, and have been without fever for at least 24 hours 
without the use of fever reducing medications. If a provider makes an alternative 
diagnosis for the COVID-19-like symptoms, the individual may return to school 
based on the recommendations for that alternative diagnosis (e.g., influenza or 
strep pharyngitis). 
 If a student or staff member presents COVID-19-like symptoms and chooses not 
to be tested, they may return to school 10 days from start of symptoms, as long as 
their symptoms have improved and they have been without fever for at least 24 
hours prior to their return to school without the use of fever reducing medication.  
 
===PAGE 37===
36 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 
Most common symptoms of COVID-19 and testing requirements 
 
The single most important thing to do if any of the following symptoms are present is to 
STAY HOME. Our collective health relies, in part, on individual attention and 
responsibility. Note that some symptoms of COVID-19 are the same as the flu or a bad 
cold; please do not assume it is another condition. When in doubt, stay home.     
Please STAY HOME if you have any of the symptoms listed.  
Below is the full list of symptoms for which caregivers should monitor their children, 
and staff should monitor themselves:viii ix 
❏ Fever (100.0° Fahrenheit or higher), chills, or shaking chills (CDC has lowered 
the temperature from 100.4 to 100.0) 
❏ Cough (not due to other known cause, such as chronic cough) 
❏ Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath 
❏ New loss of taste or smell 
❏ Sore throat 
❏ Headache when in combination with other symptoms 
❏ Muscle aches or body aches 
❏ Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea 
❏ Fatigue, when in combination with other symptoms 
❏ Nasal congestion or runny nose (not due to other known causes, such as allergies) 
when in combination with other symptoms 
 
Testing 
Diagnostic testing, such as the BinaxNOW rapid antigen test, is an important tool for 
use in testing asymptomatic close contacts as part of updated quarantine guidance (see 
below). Lunenburg Public Schools will participate in the state’s “test and stay” program. 
This will allow us to keep asymptomatic close contacts in school rather than 
quarantining at home by testing these close contacts for five (5) days. Testing will be 
conducted each morning at one location. With a negative test result, the student will 
proceed to school. Should a test yield a positive result, the individual will be sent home 
to isolate until cleared to return to school. 
 
*Updated guidance for ‘test and stay’ and quarantine protocols are expected 
from DESE, DPH 
 
Massachusetts COVID-19 Response Reporting 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-response-reporting 
 
Lunenburg Public School COVID-19 Dashboard 
https://sites.google.com/lunenburgschools.net/lps-covid-19/home 
 
===PAGE 38===
37 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Massachusetts COVID-19 Vaccine 
https://www.mass.gov/covid-19-vaccine 
Mass DESE COVID-19 Guidance                                                                     
https://www.doe.mass.edu/covid19/on-desktop/2021-0730fall-2021-covid19-
guidance.pdf  
CDC COVID-19                                                                               
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html 
CDC Quarantine and Isolation                                                          
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/if-you-are-sick/quarantine.html 
 
 
CDC COVID-19 K-12 Guidance                                                                                                      
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/k-12-
guidance.html  
OSHA Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 
https://www.osha.gov/Publications/OSHA3990.pdf 
National Association of School Nurses                                              
https://www.nasn.org/nasn/nasn-resources/practice-topics/covid19 
Massachusetts School Nurse Organization                                                                       
https://msno.org/ 
 
Food Services  
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools food service team is prepared and confident in our ability 
to adapt and modify daily procedures to safely provide breakfast and lunch in our 
cafeterias.  We will continue to follow CDC and DESE guidelines to ensure that our 
kitchens are clean and sanitized as we prepare meals.  
Cafeteria crews will work in designated areas 6 feet apart with in their respective 
kitchens practice safe hand washing procedures wearing face covering at all time. Our 
staff are ServSafe certified and our Cafeteria managers undergo allergy training 
annually. Our kitchens have designated receiving areas with trained staff inspecting and 
accepting deliveries, drivers will continue to wear face coverings when entering the 
buildings and during the delivery process.  
Families are strongly encouraged to use online payment option or checks by mail to 
minimize cash handling.  
===PAGE 39===
38 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
While we are returning to our traditional manner of serving meals, we will prepackage 
some components of meals to accommodate a safe self-serve process. Our menu will 
provide two meal options daily; we will work with families to accommodate students 
with food allergies and special diets. Our kitchens will remain peanut and tree nut free.  
Eating areas for students: As students will be unmasked to eat, there is a strict 
requirement of 6 feet of physical distance between each student.  
o Eating in the cafeteria: The cafeteria is to be used for eating and will not be 
utilized for classroom space.  School staff will help with social distancing 
as students retrieve meals and move to assigned seats: 6 foot distances will 
be marked.  There will be clearly mark spaces where students can sit.  
Students in grades PreK-6 must maintain 6 feet of distance when 
unmasked; grades 7-12 as much distance as is feasible.  Students will not 
be allowed to mingle with other students.   
o Eating in alternative spaces: Outdoor seating for lunch may occur, weather 
permitting. The tables and other surfaces that students are using for meals 
will be cleaned between groups with an EPA approved disinfectant by the 
food service staff and custodial staff. Students may also perform this 
surface cleaning, when appropriate.  
 Potable Water: Water bottle refilling stations are all touchless single use.  
Disposable cups are available for students without reusable water container.  
 Payment: Families are strongly encouraged to use the online payment system 
RevTrak to make deposits into lunch accounts.  Families not using RevTrak will 
send in payments by check (made out to the Town of Lunenburg using the memo 
line for specification) or cash in envelopes with the child’s full name and grade 
level.  These payments will be placed in the lock box in each school.    
 
 Meal Distribution: Students will use their School ID for onsite meal service; IDs 
have barcode for scanning at point of sale.  Meal are available to all students at no 
cost. Students will have the option purchase meals A La Carte or snacks where 
applicable. Meals will be served on trays with some components being prepacked.  
Students will retrieve lunch tray from the cafeteria serving lines keeping distance 
of 6 feet.  
 Clean up: Students will use trash bins to clear tray and stack empty tray in 
designated area as they exit the cafeteria. The tables and other surfaces that 
students are using for meals will be cleaned between groups with an EPA 
approved disinfectant by the food service and custodial staff.  Students also may 
perform this surface cleaning, when appropriate.  
 Operations and Management: The Food Service Director will plan menus for the 
district. All schools will follow the same menu. 
===PAGE 40===
39 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 Cafeteria Managers will order, maintain inventory, prepare and delegate 
meal preparation duties including portioning, packaging, and then serving 
meals. 
 
 Cafeteria Staff will report to work in clean uniform with an apron and 
mask. Food service kitchens are currently set up to accommodate social 
distance guidelines allowing staff to keep 6 feet distance while completing 
daily tasks. Staff will wear single use gloves during all food preparation 
and handling. 
 
Meal consumption  
 Masks: Students will be instructed as to proper removal of their masks on the 
first day of school.  Masks should be removed by handling the ties or back/ear 
areas of the mask once seated. Students should not touch the outside or inside of 
the part covering the face. Masks should be placed on a napkin or other container 
on the table, with the inside of the mask facing up. Masks should be put back on 
before leaving the seat. 
 Distancing: Individuals in grades PreK-6 must be at least 6 feet apart at all times 
when masks are removed; grades 7-12 as much distance as is feasible.  
 Hand hygiene: Individuals must properly wash or sanitize hands before and after 
eating.  
 
Instructional Technology  
  
The Lunenburg Public School District used the experiences from remote learning to 
improve existing processes and plan for increasing support for students, families and 
staff.   
  
Technology Access 
Students in grades K-2 will be provided with an iPad, and students in grades 3-12 will be 
provided with a Chromebook.  Several grades were allowed to retain their devices over 
the summer break; the remainder will have a device assigned to them in the first days or 
weeks of the school year.  The district previously collected data on internet reliability in 
student’s homes, and will do so again for this school year.  We are planning to facilitate 
the provision of cellular hotspots to homes that have internet difficulties. 
  
Technology Support  
Staff will create and deliver program training.  Additional training opportunities will 
occur throughout the school year as the need arises.  Students will be provided training 
on device care, usage, and program basics by instructional staff.  Families and students 
will have access to training and tutorials through a centralized site developed by the 
district.  The site will include contact information for the IT department for device 
support. 
 
Program support will be provided by instructional staff and technology support staff in 
each building.  Families and students will have access to training and tutorials through a 
===PAGE 41===
40 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
centralized site developed by the district.  The site will include contact information for 
the IT department for device support.  Appointments will be scheduled individually with 
IT for servicing devices through the IT support link 
chromebooksupport@lunenburgonline.com or iPadsupport@lunenburgonline.com.  
There will be a number of devices available for exchange should the need arise. 
  
Logistics 
All devices will be given a serial number and assigned to a student or instructional staff 
member.  Inventory data including device assignment will be kept in a centralized 
document and shared with building administration and the IT department.  IT and 
building administration will coordinate the assignment of devices.  Devices will then be 
delivered to each building for distribution.  Building administration will work with staff 
to distribute devices to classrooms and staff members.  Each building will develop plans 
for distribution and collection of devices. 
  
  
Procedures/Protocols 
Students/Parents will sign the Acceptable Use Policy and Chromebook Agreement in 
grades 3-12.  Grades Pre-K-2 will sign the Acceptable Use Policy and iPad Agreement 
forms.  This information will be kept in a centralized document in each building.  Shared 
databases will be used to track devices for distribution, collection and recovery.  IT will 
examine devices upon receipt and determine if devices are damaged.  IT will use the 
existing scale to determine the cost of repairs or replacements for which students/ 
families may be responsible.  Insurance will be available for purchase by 
students/families. 
  
Engagement               
We have created a tiered response to support student and family engagement strategies. 
  
  
Staff Expectations 
Staff will proactively reach out to families from an overall wellness viewpoint.  If staff 
cannot contact students or their families after 2 attempts in a week then they will refer 
those families and students to the assigned guidance counselor.  Specific classroom 
technology or program issues will be handled by the classroom teacher. 
  
Guidance Counselor Expectations 
The guidance counselor will contact families to determine the appropriate support 
needed by the families in order to access learning.  Technology assistance will be 
referred to IT.  Basic necessities will be referred to the School Nurse.  Social /Emotional 
needs will be referred to Building Behavioral Health Support Teams.  Data will be kept 
by the guidance counselor and building administration on contact attempts, needs, and 
outcomes on a shared document.  If the guidance counselor is unable to contact the 
families or students referral to building administration is made. 
  
Administration Expectations  
Administration will attempt to contact students and families.  If Administration is 
unable to make contact they will contact the SRO.  The Administration and the SRO will 
===PAGE 42===
41 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
determine the best course of action.  If a wellness check is needed the SRO and a staff 
member (TBD) will go together to check on the student and their family.  At that time 
administration will work with the student and family to determine what support may be 
needed and develop a plan to help provide the support. 
 
 
Transportation Operations 
The Office of the Superintendent of Schools and the Business Office will work with the 
district’s transportation vendors, Dee Bus Service for general education transportation 
and Van Pool Transportation for special education transportation, to develop an 
efficient and safe plan that best fits the re-entry plan for students.  Protocols will be 
adopted from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) Fall 
Reopening Transportation Guidance updated February 11. 2021. 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Q3jNF6IzscjXwqVkJbvsSsAOH7uLCSAa/view  
 
Student Transportation Capacity 
Under current DESE guidelines (updated February 2021):  
Masks 
• Everyone on the bus and waiting at bus stops must wear masks that cover the 
nose and mouth at all times.  
• Masks should be provided by the student/family, but districts must ensure that 
sufficient extra disposable masks are made available on all buses for any student 
who needs them.  
Physical distancing 
• Districts may adopt these updated standards only when the required mitigation 
measures (wearing masks, opening windows, etc.) are followed.   
• Preschool and Elementary schools:  
• Capacity limitations and physical distancing requirements for 
students on buses are lifted. 
• Middle and High schools:  
• Capacity limitations and physical distancing requirements for students on 
buses are lifted, except for middle and high schools in districts with high 
community prevalence, then capacity limitations and physical distancing 
requirements on buses are amended to allow 2 students per bus bench.  
Lunenburg Public Schools will follow DESE transportation guidance.  Lunenburg 
Middle/High School will be limiting two (2) students per seat. 
Last year, 10 buses were operated under the general busing contract - capacity was 77 
seats for middle/high school students and 77 to 83 seats for primary/elementary 
students.  A mini-bus has a typical 18 student capacity. Capacity with two (2) students 
per seat will be 50 to 54 students per bus with a 77 or 83 seat capacity; mini-bus can 
operate at full capacity. 
 
===PAGE 43===
42 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Recommended Health and Safety Standards 
 School buses will operate with the following safety practices: 
o Students and driver will be required to wear masks 
o Bus windows will remain open 
o Bus seating will be assigned  
o Bus drivers will be trained on symptomatic passengers and protocols 
o High touch areas will be wiped down between completed routes 
 
  
Other School Related Programs 
Athletics 
The guidance for general bus transportation will be used for transporting student 
athletes. 
 
Extended Day Program   
Program enrollment data will be reviewed to determine if bus routes can accommodate 
the pick-up and delivery of students to and from TCP Elementary School. 
 
School Events/Field Trips 
Field trips or school events requiring bus transportation will be reviewed by the bus 
company.  An appropriate fleet will be recommended to the school administration and 
costs will be included on the student participation cost. 
 
Employee Benefits 
 
The Office of Human Resources is available to assist employees through the personal 
challenges.   
 
Modifying Practices and Communication to School Staff 
The Lunenburg Public Schools response to the COVID-19 pandemic has focused on 
actions that can be taken to ensure the health, safety, and well-being of our school 
community. As we prepare for the upcoming school year, health and safety best 
practices, and support for students and staff will remain a priority. Measures which will 
be taken are based on the best information available. As new information and guidance 
becomes available, it may be necessary to update these measures.  
 
Re-entry Information 
The Office of the Superintendent of Schools, Office of Human Resources and the district 
Nursing Coordinator will develop a re-entry process for employees.  This process will 
include, but not be limited to, the following areas:  
 
Mandated Training 
All employees will be notified to complete a mandated training with the most current 
safety practice for schools and municipal workers.  Guidance and training will include 
===PAGE 44===
43 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
any DESE, MIIA, Massachusetts Public of Health, CDC modules and/or any Lunenburg 
Public Schools generated documents.   
 
School Based Protocols   
Each employee must be aware of their school’s specific guidance on day to day 
operations and response to COVID related scenarios.  General guidance will be provided 
on the district level, school administrative staff will be responsible for assigning contact 
persons for COVID related responses in their facility, including school staff to replace 
PPE supplies.  In addition, school administration will periodically update school staff on 
building practices changes related to staff, parent and student restrictions.   
 
Employee Benefits and Rights  
The Office of Human Resources has created a new webpage for employees who have 
work sensitive concerns or issues related to the COVID pandemic.  Each section will 
have appropriate forms and process to request a specific benefits in the following 
sections:   
1. Medical Leave 
2. Employee Work Accommodations 
 
Employees will be directed to contact the Director of Human Resources to determine 
eligibility/seek approval, as well as employees who are struggling with anxiety issues. 
Employee Assistance Program information will be posted. 
 
Employee Communication 
When there are updates to COVID related employee benefits or protocol changes, 
employees will be emailed by the Director of Human Resources.   
 
Internal Controls 
 
Each school is responsible for notifying staff (and parents and students) on any newly 
adapted safety practices such as:   
 Classroom attendance sheets 
 Field trip money 
 Lunch money 
 Permission slips 
 Parent notes (early dismissal) 
As practices are approved, school and school staff will be notified of the changes.  
===PAGE 45===
44 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Certification of Health and Safety Requirements 
 
Preparing spaces 
 
Learning spaces 
 
Each classroom space can accommodate 24-28 student desks with approximately 3 feet 
of distancing between student desks (edge of seat to edge of seat) and a 6 foot of 
distance area between the teacher desk and student desks.  All desks will face in the 
same direction.  All fire codes will be observed in the arrangement of classrooms and 
other gathering spaces.  All students will have assigned seating in each class and during 
lunch and other activities.  At 3 feet of distancing, masks are required at all times.  Six 
feet of physical distance is required for masks to be removed indoors.  
 
Staff Office Spaces 
 Reconfigure spaces: Staff desks will be arranged with at least 6 feet of spacing 
and facing in the same direction.  When distancing is not feasible, staff may be 
reassigned to a different works space when possible or a physical barrier will be 
installed. 
 Staff break rooms: furniture will be removed or rearranged to provide proper 
physical distancing.  Where possible, staff schedules may be adjusted in order to 
limit the number of individuals in the room at one time, or staff may be assigned 
to a specific break/lunch room.  
 Barrier use: Transparent barriers have been installed in the main office of 
Lunenburg Middle-High School and Lunenburg Primary School as an added 
protective barrier between the secretarial staff and the public.  The public will 
only gain access to the office, by appointment, to conduct business which cannot 
be conducted electronically.  Barriers will be disinfected nightly by the custodial 
staff. 
 
Spaces for mask breaks 
 Students and staff will have at least two mask breaks per day in addition to 
lunch.  Mask breaks will be scheduled and identified break spaces (ideally 
outdoors) will be used.  
 Spaces for mask breaks must allow students to be at least 6 feet apart.  
Hand washing facilities (bathrooms or classroom sinks) or hand sanitizer 
must be available upon entering and leaving this space.  Napkins will be 
provided for masks to be set on (inside face up) when removed.  
 Masks are not required and physical distancing does not have to be 
maintained outdoors. 
 
Entry and exit points, hallways and lockers 
All students, staff with noted exceptions for medical needs, are required to wear masks 
covering their nose and mouth.  Additional masks are available at the entry and in 
===PAGE 46===
45 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
classrooms.  Signage in each school will be used to remind staff and students of hand 
hygiene, mask wearing, and flow of foot traffic in the school. 
 
Lunenburg Middle-High School  
 Upon arrival at the school, the head custodian will prop doors to 
classrooms and hallways that do not negatively affect fire code. Outdoor 
entrances will be propped open ONLY when staff secure. Staff members 
will be assigned to each entrance and doors will be secured once students 
enter the building.  
 Upon arrival at school on the school bus, students will exit the school bus 
two buses at a time. A traffic pattern has been developed that allows 6, 7, 
and 8 grade students to enter the building through separate entrances that 
coincide to their general location in the building. Building administrators 
and special area staff members will monitor entrances and hallways for 
safety compliance and adherence to social distancing and masks. Students 
will report to their homeroom class.  
 Upon arrival breakfast will be available in the cafeteria; with seating at 6 
feet of distance.  
 Proper hand sanitizer and signage reminding of safety protocols will be 
posted at each entrance as well as trash and recycle cans at each entrance.   
 Teachers will have additional masks should a student require or request 
one.  
 Dismissal will be supervised by grade level and monitored by 
administration and staff members assigned to entrances and exits. Five 
minutes before dismissal students will be instructed to gather all 
belongings that need cleaning at home.   
 Hallway routes and transitions to classrooms are being developed per 
grade level and cohort groups to ensure safe and proper transitions. 
Routes will be clearly communicated to students before and upon their 
arrival to school.  
 Classroom transitions will be staggered according to the group cohort 
models and also grade to grade. Grade level teachers will coordinate 
transitions that will minimize the amount of students in the hallway at one 
time and provide supervision during transition times in the 
schedule. Available administrators and staff members will be assigned to 
hallways during transition that involve multiple cohorts.  
 Lockers will be used as long as students are masked in the hallway. Teams 
of teachers will coordinate so a minimum and safe number of students are 
in the hallway at one time. Specific locker times will be assigned to 
classrooms.  
 
===PAGE 47===
46 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
 Upon arrival at the school, the head custodian will prop doors to 
classrooms and hallways that do not negatively affect fire code. Outdoor 
entrances will be propped open ONLY when staff is present.  Staff 
members will be assigned to each entrance and doors will be secured once 
students enter the building.  
 Students will exit buses at 8:38 and later as they arrive. Third graders will 
enter one side of the building, fourth and fifth the other.  All students will 
immediately report to homerooms.  Drop offs will enter by the side 
(cafeteria entrance). If before first bell they will take a seat in the cafeteria. 
If after the bell they will use appropriate grade level hallway. 
 Upon arrival breakfast will be available in the cafeteria; with seating at 6 
feet of distance. 
 Proper hand sanitizer and signage reminding of safety protocols will be 
posted at each entrance.  Additional masks will be available to students 
who require one at each entrance.  
 Teachers will have additional masks should a student require one.  
 Bus dismissal will be monitored by staff members both in the hallways and 
at the   front doors.  Pick-ups will be seated in the cafeteria and dismissed 
individually via two-way radio.   
 Hallway routes and transitions to classrooms are being developed per 
grade level to ensure safe and proper transitions to promote physical 
distancing; minimally that students stay to the right side of the hallways.  
Routes will be clearly marked and communicated to students upon their 
arrival to school.  
 Grade level teachers will coordinate transitions that will minimize the 
amount of students in the hallway at one time and provide supervision 
during transition times in the schedule.   
 Lockers will be used only for jackets and lunches.  Students will be masked 
and physically distant; homerooms will access lockers at staggered 
scheduled times.  
 Grade level teachers will coordinate transitions that will minimize the 
amount of students in the hallway at one time and provide supervision 
during transition times in the schedule.   
 Lockers will be used only for jackets and lunches.  Students will be masked 
and physically distant; homerooms will access lockers at staggered 
scheduled times.  
 A plan is being developed to keep children socially distanced at recess. 
 
Lunenburg Primary School 
 
 Upon arrival at the school, the head custodian will prop doors to 
classrooms and hallways that do not negatively affect fire code. Outdoor 
===PAGE 48===
47 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
entrances will be propped open ONLY when staff are present.  Staff 
members will be assigned to each entrance and doors will be secured once 
students enter the building.  
 Upon arriving at school, bus students will exit the buses.  Drop offs will 
exit their vehicles and proceed to their respective entrances First grade will 
enter through the Library door and proceed up the library stairs. Second 
Grade will enter through the bus loop doorway and proceed up the stairs 
to their classrooms. Kindergarten students will enter through the bus loop 
doors and proceed down the Pre-K hallway to their classes. Building 
administrators and staff members will monitor entrances and hallways for 
safety compliance and adherence to social distancing and masks.  Students 
will report to their classrooms.  
 Upon arriving breakfast will be available in the cafeteria; with seating at 6 
feet of distance. 
 Proper hand sanitizer and signage reminding of safety protocols will be 
posted at each entrance. Additional masks will be available to students 
who require one at each entrance. 
 Teachers will have additional masks in their classrooms, should a student 
require one.  
 Dismissal will be conducted using the reverse of the arrival travel routes, 
monitored by administration and staff members assigned to entrances and 
exits. Students being picked up and extended day students will be 
dismissed to the gymnasium before loading cars or buses. 
  Hallway routes and transitions to classrooms will be developed by grade 
level to ensure safe and proper transitions that adhere to physical 
distancing; minimally, students staying to the right side of hallway.  
Routes will be clearly defined and communicated to students upon their 
arrival to school by grade level staff.  
 Staff will coordinate transitions to provide supervision during transition 
times. 
 Cubbies will be available for student use. Classroom staff will develop 
plans for students to access their cubbies.  
 Students will wear masks in classrooms. 
 Lunch will be in the gymnasium and cafeteria at 6ft apart to accommodate 
physical distancing while eating. The gymnasium and café spaces will be 
put to use in order to seat full grade levels. Classrooms will sit at assigned 
tables.  
Recess 
 Assigned staff will monitor interactions at recess. 
 Hand sanitizer will be used upon entering and leaving recess space. 
Review 
 Based on metrics protocols may change. 
 Based on number of drop offs/pick ups we may institute the procedures 
that were used last year.  
 
===PAGE 49===
48 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 
Storage and disposal 
 
Storage for cleaning supplies  
 Management of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Stocks 
o Senior Custodians will store PPE purchased by the district for school 
operations in their storage areas and will report on hand quantities on a 
quarterly basis beginning as of August 30th 2021 with the report due the 
next day to the Director of Facilities. The attached format will be used:  
1. Report as of: ___________  for 
School:____________________ 
2. Boxes of face masks on hand ____________ 
(partial boxes will not be counted) 
3. Gallons of hand sanitizer on hand 
(unopened)_______________ 
4. Hand Sanitizer Foaming  cartridges on hand 
_____________  
5. Boxes of KN95 face masks on hand 
_________________ 
6. Face Shields on Hand_______________ 
7. Gowns on Hand _______________ 
 
 The Director of Facilities will coordinate with the Business Manager for 
replacement PPE for schools.  Replacements will be shipped directly to the 
school. 
 Senior Custodian will track use of hand sanitizer cartridges and order 
replacement cartridges with each quarterly custodial supply order. 
 
Mask disposal 
If a reusable mask breaks and needs to be thrown out or if a single-use mask needs to be 
disposed of, it should be placed into the nearest trash can by the individual who wore 
the mask. The individual should immediately put on a new mask after washing their 
hands. 
 
Handwashing and hand sanitizing stations 
Handwashing removes bacteria and virus from the surface of the hands. Handwashing 
with soap and water is the best option.  When handwashing is not possible, alcohol-
based hand sanitizer (at least 60 percent ethanol or at least 70 percent isopropanol) may 
be utilized.  
 
Handwashing is available: 
 In bathrooms 
===PAGE 50===
49 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 In classrooms with a sink 
Hand sanitizing stations are available: 
 All entries and exits 
 In libraries and shared activity spaces 
 In the cafeteria 
 Next to water fountains  
 Next to mask break areas  
 
In order to maximize handwashing and sanitization stations, students may be within 3 
feet of distance for a brief period of time (20 seconds) during hand washing as long as 
masks are worn and students are not directly facing one another.  
 
Ventilation and HVAC Systems 
 
Prepare ventilation systems 
 Clean ventilation system: All filter changes will be completed prior to opening. 
 Run HVAC systems: HVAC systems will be started two weeks prior to the return 
of students  to allow for testing of all equipment prior to the beginning of schools. 
All repairs will be identified and repairs complete prior to school starting. 
 
Increase outdoor air ventilation 
 Adjust HVAC settings: Turkey Hill Elementary School will operate with exhaust 
fans overridden to the high position. Custodial staff will control the start and end 
times of the exhaust system.   
 Open windows or doors (when appropriate and safe):  School staff may open 
windows and doors when safe to do so, as well as the feasibility of increasing 
outdoor air intake with fan boxes in windows. Fan should be blowing out of the 
building.   
 Maintain ventilation for longer hours:  Control systems will be adjusted by the 
Director of Facilities to increase run time prior to and after the school day.  
 HVAC System Checks: The Senior Custodian for each building will complete a 
building wide check of the HVAC system on the first work day of each week to 
confirm all Energy Recovery Units, Air Handler and Exhaust Fan is operating 
properly. A report by building will be completed and sent by e-mail to the Senior 
Maintenance person and the Director of Facilities NLT noon on the first work day 
of each week. 
 Air Quality Checks: Air quality checks will be conducted districtwide mid-year.  
Air purifier units have been placed in every classroom in the Turkey Hill 
Elementary School. 
 
===PAGE 51===
50 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
Signage 
The district signage will provide clear and age-appropriate message in highly visible 
locations throughout school property.  Signage will emphasize to students and staff to 
follow proper health and safety protocols.  Signage will be posted in the following key 
areas: 
 Entry ways/exits: Mask and physical distance reminders on doors and ground 
areas 
 Hallways: Mask reminders and direction of travel markers floor areas 
 Bathrooms: Clean and sanitize hands images on entry doors and walls 
 Classrooms: Mask and physical distancing reminders on the floors and walls 
 Mask break areas: Mask reminders and direction of travel markers floor areas  
 Handwashing and hand sanitizing stations: Visual instructions next to the 
device on proper use  
 Cafeteria area: Travel markers with entry/exit flow for students, along 
with food safety and protocol 
 Student line-up areas: Direction of travel markers floor areas 
 Restricted areas: Mark off closed areas 
 
 
Operational Protocols 
 
School cleaning and disinfecting 
Lunenburg Public Schools custodial staff will execute the cleaning plan outlined in the 
Custodial Handbook. 
 Frequency: Daily cleaning and disinfecting will occur using the standard 
products for the district. High Touch points in classrooms and hallways will be 
disinfected daily. The school buildings will be disinfectant electrostatic sprayer. 
o Disinfecting Agents: The District will provide all classrooms with a spray 
bottle containing Hillyard Industries Re-Juv-nal. This disinfectant has a 
10 minute dwell time for maximum efficiency.  
o Electronics: Classrooms will also be provided with mircrofibers that can 
be sprayed with disinfectant for use on electronics. Do not spray electronic 
directly. Microfibers will be collected by the custodial staff for laundering 
and replacement fibers provided. 
 Disinfectant solutions:  
o Beside Re-Juv-nal the district will be using Pur-tablets with an 
electrostatic sprayer to disinfect surfaces. This will be used on a scheduled 
basis after school. 
 
Shared items 
 Limit sharing:  
===PAGE 52===
51 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
o Multiple students handling of supplies or items should be minimized 
wherever possible.  Students will be assigned their own materials 
whenever possible.   
 Hand hygiene: Students and staff will wash hands or use hand sanitizer before 
and after using shared materials. 
 Storage: Each student’s belongings will be kept separated from others’ in 
individually labeled containers, cubbies, or designated areas.  Access to these 
areas will be staggered in order to allow for proper physical distancing.  
Visitors and volunteers 
 There will be no visitors or volunteers except for contracted service providers for 
the purpose of special education, required support services, professional 
development or program monitoring as authorized by the district. Any contracted 
service providers must be approved by the Director of Special Services.  The 
Director will provide the contracted service provider the COVID-19 school 
policies.  The Director will notify the school administration and special education 
liaison.  The contracted service provider will use the main entrance to the school 
and must be checked in by the secretary.  The secretary will verify that the 
contracted service provider is asymptomatic and has a mask worn correctly 
(covering month and nose).   The secretary will verify that the Contracted service 
provider has reviewed the COVID-19 school policies which was provided by the 
Director of Special Services.  If they have not reviewed the document, they must 
reschedule their visit. 
 All business will continue to be conducted electronically.  In those instances 
where this is not possible, individuals must make an appointment with the 
school. 
 The school secretary will keep and maintain a log of all individuals who enter the 
building by appointment including: date, contact phone number, 
arrival/departure times, areas visited within the building, reason for the visit.  
The log must be sent to Central Office at the end of each month. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 53===
52 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 2021-22 Reopen Plan  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                