===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
 
STUDENTS 5800 
 
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION 5801 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX   5801.01 
 
The School Committee, in accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 
declares that the school  system does not and will not discriminate on the basis of sex in the 
educational programs and activities of the public schools.  This policy will extend not only to 
students with regard to educational opportunities, but also to employees with regard to 
employment opportunities. 
 
The School Committee will continue to ensure fair and equitable educational and employment 
opportunities, without regard to sex, to all of its students and employees. 
 
The Committee will designate an individual to act as the school  system’s Title IX compliance 
officer.  All students and employees will be notified of the name and office address and telephone 
number of the compliance officer. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employmen t 
or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genet ic information, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported 
possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, or 
who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff 
who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or dismissal. 
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free 
from discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship 
status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, 
genetic information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, 
we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or 
who participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
 
 *race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
SOURCE: MASC 
 
LOCAL REFS:Title IC of the Education Amendments of 1972 
  45 CFR, Part 86, (Federal Register, 6/4/75) 
  M.G.L. 76:5; 76:16 (Chapter 622 of the Acts of 1971) 
===PAGE 2===
 
 BESE 603 CMR 26:00 
 
LEGAL REF.:  Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - 
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
 
CROSS REF.: AC, Nondiscrimination 
 
 
Approved:  November 7, 2012 
 
 
 