===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS 3000 
 
TRANSPORTATION 3600 
 
TRANSPORTATION:  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 3601 
OF THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
 
The purpose of school transportation is to get pupils from home to school and back in an efficient, 
safe, and economical manner.  Other purposes include the provision of transportation for academic 
field trips in direct support of the curriculum, transportation for the support of the co -curricular 
program (athletics, music, drama, and the like).  
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools will transport all K-6 grade students .  Grades 7-12 students will 
need to register by the district deadline date  (May 1st) to receive transportation.  The district will 
make the transportation form available by April 1st via email and on the district and school 
websites.  The Lunenburg Public Schools does not provide transportation for pre -school students 
unless this service is required by the student’s Individualized Education Plan (IEP). 
  
1. Bus Application: Students’ families wishing for their students to be bussed shall 
submit a bus application. 
a. All students in Grades K-6 shall be bussed, if and only if a bus application 
is submitted on their behalf by the district deadline date (May 1st).  
Pursuant to state law and regulation all students K-6 living more than 2 
miles from school are entitled to bussing.  Failure to submit a bus 
application before May 1st shall be deemed a waiver of access to bussing. 
Failure to submit a bus application before May 1st will result in the student being 
placed on a waiting list.   
 
b. Because of the complexity of the bus routes, students on the waiting list shall be 
placed no sooner than 60 business days from the receipt of the late bus 
application.  Parents/guardians may inquire about the application status once 
every two weeks.  If a parent/guardian inquires more than once every two weeks, 
their bus application shall be placed at the end of the waiting list. 
 
c. All other students Grades 7-12 shall be bussed based on their application 
being submitted by the deadline (May 1st).   
d. Once the bus application deadline has passed, no additional bus 
applications shall be reviewed or granted. 
e. Should the number of applications exceed the number of available seats, 
the district will determine bus assignment based on the date and time of 
application. 
2. Bus Application Due Date: Bus applications are due by 5pm on May 1st.  
Applications sent after this date shall not be reviewed or granted. 
a. In the event that multiple applications are submitted on behalf of a student, 
only the first application shall be counted. 
===PAGE 2===
3. Emergency Bus Applications: In the event of an newly arising condition that 
necessitates busing of a student AFTER the application deadline the District shall 
consider such applications in their sole discretion. 
4. Outreach: The School District, based on known need, shall conduct individual 
outreach to families that may be unable to complete the bus application form. 
5. Finality of Decisions: All bus application decisions by the School District are 
final. 
6. Conflict and Severability: Nothing in this policy shall be interpreted as 
conflicting with state or federal law or regulations. In the event that some 
provision of this policy is deemed unlawful all other provisions shall be given their 
full force and effect. 
Approved:  April 27, 2005 Updated:  