===PAGE 1===
District Strategic ObjectiveTransforming Teaching and Learning
Educator Evaluation LinkStandard I: Curriculum, Planning, and Assessment
Building Strategic Goal #1
To ensure all students can read and write independently at grade level in order to successfullyaccess all content area curricula.
We have continued to use the Lucy Calkins Units of study for literacy instruction and EveryDay Math for math instruction.We were aware we would be looking for a new math program and planned and completed pilot programs of severalrecommended evidence based options with the help of the Director of Teaching and Learning, the K-8 Math Coordinatorand an outside Math consultant. The opportunity to include an evidence based literacy program occurred in January andhas continued through the remainder of this year. We have adopted both the HMH Reading and HMH Math programsafter completion of the pilots. Teachers have received the instructional materials and have begun the initial unpacking ofthe programs.
A schedule was developed and implemented that addressed the need for explicit instructional blocks of time based onprogram and evidence based recommendations. This was a change from our historical scheduling methods as theflexibility of planning was somewhat limited. This schedule will continue to be in place for the 22-23 school year withsome modifications. We will be taking into account the new math and literacy program recommendations.
Teachers were provided with tw0 common planning meetings per week to meet with the Title I Director and K-8 MathCoordinator to review current common instructional practices and plan new common practices and instruction. One
===PAGE 2===
faculty meeting per month was dedicated to District Curriculum Team meetings. These meetings provided anotheropportunity to update Scope and Sequences, Curriculum Maps and discuss effective instructional practices.
Our Teacher Support Team model was adjusted to follow the district model. Teachers and paraprofessionals met monthlyto review student progress and share instructional strategies to assist struggling learners. These meetings included reviewof student progress data from iReady, and classroom assessments. Students that continued to struggle were identified at amonthly Teacher Support Team meeting and additional support, MTSS, screenings, and requests for evaluation were putin place.
The MTSS model was adjusted mid year to have one Title I staff member assigned to each grade level K-2 for reading andmath support. Students were identified for these supports based upon iReady assessment scores and other classroom data.Students would receive support for vulnerable skill areas for a six week period, be reassessed and either continue withsupport or cycle out of support having demonstrated a proficiency in the original skill area. In addition the scheduleallowed for an Intervention Block. This block provided time for teachers to work with students in smaller, differentiatedgroups.
iReady Reading -Diagnostic GrowthiReady Math - Diagnostic Growth (Not completed. Testing takes place 5/31-6/2.)
We have worked on putting the infrastructure in place to provide time and resources for teachers to collaborate onproviding effective instructional strategies and develop common learning experiences and assessments. This is intended togive students opportunities to access curriculum at their starting point, to develop skills needed to make progress, andgrow academically. We will need to build in more formal data cycles to review student growth data and review theeffectiveness of our instruction and adjust practice.
===PAGE 3===
District Strategic ObjectiveCultivating Climate and Culture
Educator Evaluation LinkStandard IV: Professional Culture
Building Strategic Goal #2
To ensure all students are provided an accepting, safe school environment inorder to develop both a strong, positive sense of self and belonging in thecommunity.
PBIS continued to be a focus on a building level. We developed common expectations in a consistent format for student’sto easily recognize and follow. Classroom expectations are based on Responsive Classroom strategies.
Our Behavioral Health Support Team has been formed and we continue to maintain a database of students that have beenreferred for possibly needing additional support. This team  has met weekly to develop strategies around supporting ourstudents that may present with behavioral or mental health concerns. We have referred families to Care Solace foraccessing outside resources. We analyzed the Relationship Mapping data from staff and will be analyzing similar datafrom students at year’s end. We determined that we will be establishing check-ins and possible check- outs as an actionstep for next year. We have also given a student SEL survey at mid year and are in the process of administering anotherone by year's end. We will analyze that data and look for areas to address and possible action steps for next year.
The Trails to Wellness SEL program was implemented as a Unified Arts class for grades K-2. We originally utilized ourSchool Adjustment Counselor/Social Worker for this program. In February we hired a shared Guidance Counselor toprovide the instruction for this program at both the Primary School and Turkey Hill Elementary School. We did feel it wasimportant to have the adjustment counselor continue with the instruction for the K students to build a solid foundationalrelationship with them during their three years in the building. The school adjustment counselor also provided individual
===PAGE 4===
lessons to classes, including Pre-K, as needed.
We were able to run an afterschool tutoring program for students five days per week through a grant. The programconsisted of math and reading tutoring and one activity day. We will be looking at offering other after school activities nextyear.
While there were individual classroom and grade level community building activities we also held all school events. Wedetermined that both were of equal importance. In the Fall we held a Turkey Trot, the Winter saw the Reindeer Run. Weare currently planning for an all school Olympic themed Field Day for the end of the year. We would like to incorporatesome of these into once per month community building activities in conjunction with our PBIS plans.
This action step was not included in the CSIP. It is important that the work is mentioned here as it pertains to the intent ofthe goal. Our media/tech teacher did an audit on the texts that currently exist in our library. We have identified that thereis work to do around including books that are inclusive of and representative of  our student’s diverse culture andexperience. This work may be part of an additional overarching  goal, or additional action steps under this goal, in the22-23 CSIP and include classroom libraries and instructional materials as well.
===PAGE 5===
District Strategic ObjectiveCommunication and Operations
Educator Evaluation LinkStandard III: Family and Community Engagement
Building Strategic Goal # 3
Improve communication with the community and parents relative to providinginformation on curriculum, grade level, classroom and school events.
Weekly emails were sent out to families throughout the year. The emails contained a link to information regarding schoolwide events, important dates, general information and approved posts from community organizations. Additionalinformation was sent out as needed in between the weekly communications. Classroom events were posted by individualteachers through their Google classrooms or weekly emails.Posting curriculum information will be a continued action step for next year. We will be looking to post “I can …”statements for each standard in each grade level along with updated examples based partly on our new curriculumresources in math and reading as well as the standards.
The district has sent out multiple surveys including a Culture and Climate Survey,Title I Survey, and the After SchoolTutoring Program Survey.We held an Open House through Zoom and Parent Teacher Conferences through Zoom.
This year we held our first Literacy Night event for families. It was well attended. We plan on holding a STEM night in thefall, Math Night around mid year and our second Literacy Night next year in the spring.
Communication with staff has included weekly drop-in Zoom meetings. These ended in January due to poor attendance.We also put in place a Google Check- In request form for staff. It has been a moderate success. We have also conducted aSWOT analysis as a building in order to better inform decision making and obtain feedback for possible action steps fornext year’s CSIP.