===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL
PROGRAM OF STUDIES2023-2024

===PAGE 2===
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM OF STUDIES2023-24TABLE OF CONTENTS
PRINCIPAL'S MESSAGE pg 3LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL MISSION STATEMENTAND CORE VALUES pg 4ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY pg 4LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS pg5MCAS GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS pg 6A GUIDE TO THE COURSE SELECTION PROCESS pg 8COURSE SELECTION AND FUTURE PLANS pg 9FRESHMAN APPLICANTSGPA REQUIREMENTSSAT/ACT REQUIREMENTSNCAA DIVISION I AND II ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTSALTERNATIVE COURSE OFFERINGS pg 10DUAL ENROLLMENTVIRTUAL HIGH SCHOOLOTHER COURSE OPTIONS/MAKE-UP CREDITSENIOR TRANSITION EXPERIENCE PROGRAM (STEP)ENGLISH pg 12MATHEMATICS pg 15SOCIAL STUDIES pg 18SCIENCE pg 21WORLD LANGUAGES pg 25HEALTH EDUCATION pg 28PHYSICAL EDUCATION pg 28TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION pg 29PERFORMING ARTS pg 30VISUAL ARTS pg 32INTERVENTION pg 35SPECIAL SERVICES pg 35OUTSIDE COURSE PERMISSION FORM pg 38DUAL ENROLLMENT CONTRACT pg 39
===PAGE 3===
PRINCIPAL’S MESSAGE
Dear Parents and Students:
We are pleased to introduce the 2023-24 Lunenburg High School Program of Studies.Lunenburg High School’s faculty and administration are committed to our tradition of providingstudents with a challenging curriculum and a school environment that is designed to prepare them forfuture success.
This program contains important information about the course selection process, includingcredits, course descriptions, and graduation requirements.  This will help you in selecting yourcourses for next year.  We encourage both parents and students to read the program thoroughly tobecome familiar with the academic offerings at LHS.  We also encourage you to formulate orcontinue your Graduation Progress Worksheet - a four year plan, to serve as a road map in chartingyour course selection.
The Program of Studies of Lunenburg High School is designed to produce the best educationalopportunities possible for all of our students.  Toward this end, the curriculum, and the co-curricularprogram are subject to ongoing review and revision to meet the ever-changing needs of the studentbody and the community at large.   This program has been prepared to assist students and parents inplanning a course of studies appropriate to individual needs and interests.  You are urged to consultwith the professional staff for further clarification of course objectives.
The School Counseling Department, Department Chairs, and teachers will provide you withinformation regarding course sequence and other matters pertinent to your individual goals.  It isimperative that you review the minimum requirements and course prerequisites and, if necessary,consult with your School Counselor and Department Chairs prior to enrolling in courses.   Theimportance of choosing the right program to fill your particular needs, interests, and abilities, andthat also coincide with your postsecondary goals cannot be stressed enough. Your choice of coursesis an important decision and should not be taken lightly.   Once you have made your decisions, youwill be committed to those courses for the 2023-24 school year.
Best wishes for success in the courses you select.
Sincerely,
Timothy Santry Karma TousignantPrincipal                                                                                             David MicuAssistant Principals

===PAGE 4===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS MISSION STATEMENT
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills,confidence, and passion for lifelong learning so that they may find their own paths to successfulcareers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.
OUR CORE VALUES
● Quality education cultivates creative problem solving, independent thinking, andmultiple points of view.● Effective education addresses the whole child, involves authentic engagement, andprovides multiple pathways to success.● Students must be provided with an academically and personally safe environment thatpromotes effective learning.● Students should be provided with opportunities to develop initiative and responsibilitywhich will help them become active and supportive community members.● Focused, sustained professional development and reflective practice are fundamental toexcellence in teaching.● Strong collaboration and open communication among school staff, students, families,and the community develop mutual respect and trust, and enhance students’ ability tosucceed.● Resourcing decisions should be responsible, address critical needs and put students first.
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY
Lunenburg Public School system complies with all regulations and procedures of General Laws ofMassachusetts: 71B:1 (Chapter 766), 76:5, & 76:16, Title Vi, Title VII, Title II, Title IX, and Section504.  These laws provide:
No person shall be excluded from or discriminated against in admission to a public school of anytown and that all programs, activities, and employment opportunities are offered without regard torace, color, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, sexual orientation or disability.
S’il vous faut une traduction de ce document dans votre langue maternelle, veuillez contacterMr. Timothy Santry au (978) 582-4115, le poste 2106 ou bien par courrielàtsantry@lunenburgschools.net
Si se necesita este documento traducido al español, favor de llamar al Señor Santry, al número978-582-4115, ext. 2106, o se puede enviarle un mensaje por correo electrónico atsantry@lunenburgschools.net
===PAGE 5===
Lunenburg High School Graduation Requirements
Students must meet ALL requirements in order to participate in the graduation ceremonyand receive a Lunenburg High School diploma.
Classes LHS - 24 Credits19 (content classes)5 elective classes
MassCore & MassachusettsHigher Education AdmissionStandards
English 4 credits 4 credits
Math 3 credits(Alg I & II and Geometry)*Must enroll in a math class everysemester of high school
3 credits(Including completion of AlgebraII or the Integrated Mathematicsequivalent. A mathematics courseduring senior year isrecommended for all students).
Science 3 credits (including 2 with labwork)
3 credits (including 3 with labwork)
Social Studies 3 credits, including WorldHistory & US History;2.5 outof the 3 credits must beHistory designated courses.
3 credits (including US Historyand World History)
World Language
2 credits (consecutivelanguage)
2 credits (consecutive language)
Unified Art(visual arts,performingarts, technologyeducation, film literacy,and/or a maximum of .5credit of STEP)
2 credits
Physical Education 1.5 credits
Health .5 credits
Electives 5 credits from the aboveclasses, STEP, and/or VHS
2 credits from the abovestandards or Unified Arts
*MCAS Requirement -  See information and chart below.
All students (starting with the class of 2023) must complete a civics project as agraduation requirement. This requirement can be fulfilled by taking either Civic &Community Engagement or English Community Service Learning.
===PAGE 6===
MCAS Graduation Requirements
In Massachusetts, public school students must meet both local and state requirements inorder to earn a high school diploma. This page addresses state requirements. For localrequirements, please contact your high school.
The Massachusetts Education Reform Law of 1993,G.L.c. 69, § 1D, requires that allstudents meet theCompetency Determination (CD) standard,which is usually done byearning a passing score on MCAS. This requirement is for all students educated at publicexpense, including those at public schools, at educational collaboratives and those inapproved and unapproved private special education schools.
A. Competency Determination Requirements
1. CD RequirementsStudents must earn a passing score on the grade 10 MCAS tests in English Language Arts(ELA) and Mathematics, and one of the high school Science and Technology/Engineering(STE)teststo meet their CD requirement.
Students who do not pass the MCAS tests in grade 10 may take retests according to theseparticipation guidelinesin grades 11 and 12 and beyond.Some students may also be ableto participate in anappeal processas described below.
The tables below describe the CD requirements for students in the classes of 2021–2031and beyond. Please note that some requirements for the classes of 2020-23 weremodified due to disruptions during the early part of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Class of 2023*
Subject Option 1 Option 2
ELA Earn a score of 472 or higher Earn a score of 455–471
and
Fulfill the requirements of anEducational Proficiency Plan
Math Earn a score of 486 or higher Earn a score of 469–485
and
Fulfill the requirements of anEducational Proficiency Plan
STE** Earn a score of 220 or higher (forstudents who took a legacy STE test inFebruary 2020 or earlier)
Successful completion of a relevanthigh school course (Refer to the linksin the footnote for details.)
===PAGE 7===
*A note on the passing standard:
Please note that the passing standards for the classes of 2021–2025 are set at a level ofachievement that has been established as equivalent to the standard on the legacy MCAStests. Some students in the classes of 2021–2025 may score in the Not MeetingExpectations level, but their scaled score is high enough to earn the CD in that subject.Please see theSeptember 22, 2022 edition of the StudentAssessment Updatefor a visualrepresentation of this.
**Modified CD Requirements
The Board of Elementary and Secondary Education approved modified CD requirementsdue to the cancellation of testing opportunities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Themodified CD is in place for the following graduating classes and subjects:
● ELA and Mathematics — classes of 2020–2022● STE — classes of 2020–2023
Please also seeFAQs on the modified CD, and thelist of the accepted coursesthat fulfillthe modified CD requirements.
Classes of 2024 and 2025*
Subject Option 1 Option 2
ELA Earn a score of 472 or higher Earn a score of 455–471
and
Fulfill the requirements of anEducational Proficiency Plan
Math Earn a score of 486 or higher Earn a score of 469–485
and
Fulfill the requirements of anEducational Proficiency Plan
STE Earn a score of 220 or higher onlegacy Chemistry orTechnology/Engineering, or theinterim passing standard fornext-generation Biology (467) orIntroductory Physics (470)
Not applicable (only one option forSTE)
*A note on the passing standard:
Please note that the passing standards for the classes of 2021–2025 are set at a level ofachievement that has been established as equivalent to the standard on the legacy MCAStests. Some students in the classes of 2021–2025 may score in the Not MeetingExpectations level, but their scaled score is high enough to earn the CD in that subject.Please see theSeptember 22, 2022 edition of the StudentAssessment Updatefor a visualrepresentation of this.
===PAGE 8===
A GUIDE TO THE COURSE SELECTION PROCESS
It is very important that students and parents/guardians carefully review and discuss theavailable course options in this Program of Studies.  Students should  review graduationrequirements and plan accordingly. The master schedule, courses to be run, and number ofsections are created based on student course selections.
Lunenburg High School teaches a college preparatory curriculum that supports students'continuation with post-secondary plans. Academic course levels include; Essentials, CollegePreparatory (CP), Honors (H), and Advanced Placement (AP).
Each student is required to be enrolled in a minimum of six credits each year. However, it isrecommended that students consider to register for at least 6.5 credits with the exception of freshmenwho will be enrolled in additional elective credits if available and upon request.Two semester courses(0.5 credit each) are considered the equivalent of a 1.0 credit course. Students are encouraged toselect the most challenging courses including those of an exploratory nature. We urge that thisinformation be used to outline your Graduation Progress Worksheet - a four-year plan. Keeping trackof  subjects taken and credits earned towards graduation requirements as well as fulfillingprerequisites for further, course work, training, employment, and post-secondary education areimportant to the process.
The course selection processbegins during the secondsemester and includes:
● A presentation to all classes by the School Counseling Department outlining courseselection options, scheduling deadlines, and distribution of a course selectionworksheets.● Teacher Recommendation Days are designated times during which teachersrecommend courses for their students for the following school year. When required,course selections will include a designated level, for example, **AdvancedPlacement (AP), Honors (H),  College Preparatory (CP) or Essentials, asdetermined by their teacher.● Parents/guardians and students should discuss and review the Program of Studiesand course selection worksheet prior to student selecting and registering for classesin PowerSchool.● Student’s recommendations, graduation requirements, and course selection will bereviewed and discussed with School Counselors, individually and in small groupsafter Teacher Recommendation Days and prior to students entering additionalelective selections in Powerschool.● School Counselors will also be available to assist students with entering courseselections as needed.
**AP- IMPORTANT CHANGE: Beginning fall 2019,allAP students must decide whether or not totake, register, and pay for their AP exams at the beginning of the school year typically by midNovember. Exact date to be determined. This change is being mandated by the College Board.Parent/guardian involvement is essential in the Course Selection process. Parents/guardians areurged to call or email the recommending teacher, department head, or school counselor at any timeduring the scheduling process if they have any questions.
Once scheduling is completed, changes are made only if there is a conflict in the student'sschedule, a senior needs a required class, a course is eliminated/ changed/or added,  and/or astudent fails a prerequisite course.  Changes in course placement are extremely rare once theinitial requests are complete. Students may not changea class for the purpose of changingteachers, periods or to be with friends.
===PAGE 9===
COURSE SELECTION AND FUTURE PLANS
Students that meet graduation requirements at Lunenburg High School by choosing collegepreparatory courses, including 4 years of Math, will have met the minimum admissions standards forthe Massachusetts State Universities and University of Massachusetts,as determined by theMassachusetts Board of Higher Education. These standards represent minimum requirements, andmeeting them does not guarantee admission since campus officials consider a wide range of factors inadmissions decisions. Admissions standards for the state’s community colleges differ in that they mayadmit any high school graduate or GED recipient. Private colleges and universities, as well asout-of-state public colleges and universities, set their own admission standards.
If you are planning to pursue post-secondary education, the following are generalrecommendations/requirements for course selection in order to meet the minimum admissionstandards at Massachusetts State Universities and UMass campuses. Private colleges and universities,as well as out-of-state public colleges and universities, may require additional coursework.
Freshmen ApplicantsThe admissions standards for freshmen applicants at Massachusetts’ public four year institutions havethree primary components:1. Successful completion of 17 required academic courses in specific courses; and2. A minimum average and weighted grade point average (GPA) earned high school levelacademic courses; and3. The submission of SAT or ACT scores. A small number of Massachusetts State Universitiesand UMass campuses are participating in a Test optional program. For further informationcontact the admissions office at the institution/s to which student is applying.
Academic Course Requirement for Entering College Freshmen , please refer to table on page 5Lunenburg High School Graduation Requirements.
For details on the Massachusetts Board of Higher Education Admission Standards, please visithttp://www.mass.edu/foradmin/admissions/documents/DHEAdmissionsStandardsReferenceGuide_June2016.pdf
GPA Requirement- The minimum average GPA for freshmanapplicants, weighted for accelerated(Honors and Advanced Placement) courses is 3.0 for both Massachusetts state colleges and UMasscampuses. No applicant with a GPA below 2.00 may be admitted to a Massachusetts state college orUMass campus. Calculating a weighted GPA is a process conducted by admissions offices and doesnot reflect policies and practices in place for high schools. All colleges and universities willrecalculate the unweighted GPA reported on the LHS transcript.  Typically, performance basedcourses are taken out of the calculations and additional weight is added to AP and Honors levelcourses. Please visithttp://www.mass.edu/forstufam/admissions/gpacalc.asp, for detailed informationabout calculating a weighted GPA.
SAT/ACT Score Requirements- Unless the college/universityis designated as Test Optional, freshmenwho are within three years of their high school graduation must submit their SAT or ACT scores.Applicants who meet the GPA requirement do not have to use the sliding scale for admission but stillmust submit SAT or ACT test scores for consideration. If an applicant’s GPA falls below the requiredminimum, a sliding scale will apply. This scale should be used only when an applicant’s GPA fallsbelow the required 3.0 minimum for admission to the state colleges or UMass. Please refer to theBoard of Higher Education website at www.mass.edu for more specific information regardingadmissions standards and sliding scales.
NCAA Division I and II Eligibility Requirements-Student athletes who are interested in playingDivision I or Division II athletics at the college level should let their LHS School Counselor know assoon as possible.  Prospective student-athletes will need to register with the NCAA Clearinghouse inthe fall of their junior year.  It is the responsibility of the student-athlete and their parent/guardian toknow the eligibility requirements for competing in the NCAA.   The NCAA requires that allstudent-athletes at the Division I and Division II level complete a minimum number of core courses,earn a minimum gpa, and meet certain SAT/ACT requirements in order to be eligible to participate insports in college.   All requirements, additional information, and registration for the NCAA
===PAGE 10===
Clearinghouse can be found atwww.eligibilitycenter.org.
A helpful resource, the NCAA Guide for the College Bound Student Athlete, can be located at:http://www.ncaapublications.com/productdownloads/CBSA17.pdf
ALTERNATIVE COURSE OFFERINGS(With written approval of administration)
DUAL ENROLLMENT
The Dual Enrollment Program was authorized by the Massachusetts Education Reform Act of 1993.Qualified public high school juniors and seniors can earn both high school and college credit whiletaking courses at Massachusetts public colleges or community colleges.  Lunenburg High Schoolmaintains Dual Enrollment agreements with both Mount Wachusett Community College andFitchburg State University.  Juniors and seniors who meet the college and LHS qualifying criteriashould see their school counselor for further information.  Each year that a junior or senior is in dualenrollment, they must pass English one semester and be enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits, eachsemester. Interested students must meet with theirschool counselor during the semester beforethey plan to enroll.  Each student that completesa Dual Enrollment application to either MWCC orFSU will also be required to complete a LHS Dual Enrollment contract.  This contract containsadditional information regarding specific Dual Enrollment policies at LHS.  This contract must besigned by a parent/guardian before the application will be processed.   (See contract page 38)
Virtual High School Courses (VHS)
VHS courses are available for seniors, and if space is available, for juniors. The intent of onlinelearning is to allow students to pursue courses that are not available to students within the Program ofStudies at LHS.  Courses that are currently offered at LHS cannot be taken through VHS.  Uponcompletion, students will earn elective credit for any VHS class taken.  Students receive rigorouscourse content in their courses, and are given the opportunity to participate with students from otherstates and countries in their virtual classroom learning experience.  Students who take online coursesare gaining many skills, such as multimedia presentation skills, online collaboration andcommunications, assessment of online resources and online team building skills, which are essentialto the 21
st 
century learner.  Interested studentsmust complete a VHS registration and contract form onor before June 1, 2023. All forms are available from the VHS Coordinator or School Counselors.
Some courses require additional fees, which are the responsibility of the student.  All VHS courseswill appear on the LHS transcript.  AP VHS courses receive the weight that is assigned to other APcourses, however, we do not assign additional weight to the final grades for VHS Honors courses.Alist of available courses will be coming soon.
SENIOR TRANSITION EXPERIENCE PROGRAM (STEP)GRADE 12(.5 UA credit may be earned with completion of approval form)
The STEP program enables seniors to participate in community-based experiences that challengethem to test and refine their future goals.  STEP experiences will engage students in one of thefollowing strands:- Career Experience: Unpaid internships in business or professional placements- Community Service: Activity that contributes to the local communityEligibility: Students who have earned a minimum of16.00 credits are eligible for the program.
Credit:    Students may participate in a one halfcredit (.5) per semester experience.- A half credit experience requires the student to be enrolled in at least five academicclasses and participate forfour hours per weekina STEP placement.
Schedule: Seniors will schedule STEP experiences incooperation with their sponsors.  The dailyschedule may allow for late arrival and/or early release, which facilitates STEP experiences during
===PAGE 11===
the traditional work/school day.
STEP experiences will take place during the fall and/or spring semester.  Students will be notified ofproposal approval by the last day of the school year for the upcoming fall/spring semesters.
Student Responsibilities: Participating seniors areresponsible for the following:- Locate their own STEP placements and sponsors.  (the STEP Program coordinator orschool counselor may assist with information or referrals).- Parents are not eligible to be sponsors of their own children, nor are students allowedto be sponsored at a parent-run family business.- Prepare a STEP program application (see STEP coordinator for the application)- Present the proposal to the STEP Coordinator- Complete Cori Check/follow-up with sponsor in doing so as well if approved- Join the google classroom/continue to follow-up with responsibilities- Create an online portfolio of the experience- Prepare thoughtful reflections- Communicate regularly with the STEP coordinator- Meet all course responsibilities as outlined in the syllabus
● ALL INTERESTED SENIORS MUST SEE THE STEP COORDINATOR FOR ANAPPLICATION● APPLICATIONS ARE DUE ON OR BEFOREJUNE 1, 2023
OTHER COURSE OPTIONS/MAKE-UP CREDIT
There may be a circumstance where a student is required or chooses to take a course outside ofLunenburg High School.   Each situation and circumstance is unique and will be treated assuch.With the exception of students that are enrolled in full-time Dual Enrollment at MWCC or FSU, it isthe expectation that students will complete all of the Lunenburg High School graduation requirementswith Lunenburg High School courses or approved summer school courses.  The outside coursepermission form must be completed and have all signatures prior to enrolling in any course outside ofLHS.In the event that a student requires summer school, the student must have satisfied the followingcriteria in order to receive full credit for the course:
Summer School1. The student must have achieved an overall final grade of at least 50 in the failed course orhave lost credit due to absences.2. Summer school courses taken outside of Lunenburg High School must be from the approvedlist provided by the school, or approved in writing by the administration.3. Summer School grades are factored into GPA as a 1 credit course.  These grades do notreplace the failed course grade.
Off- Campus and/or Online Learning1. All off-campus and online courses(with the exceptionof VHS)must be approved before thecourse begins, in writing by the school  counselor, the appropriate department head, and theadministration.2. Off- campus and online courses costs are the responsibility of the student.3. Off- campus and online courses may not be taken simultaneously with the same course atLHS.4. Off- campus and online courses cannot be taken if the same course is offered in the LHScurriculum.5. Prior to enrollment in any course, the course approval form must be completed.  Allinformation regarding credit earned, graduation distribution (if applicable), inclusion of thecourse on the transcript, etc. will be determined as part of the approval process.
===PAGE 12===
ENGLISH
The guiding principles of English instruction in all grades are to develop the literacy level,communication, and critical thinking skills of all students to the highest possible extent. To this end,reading, writing, and speaking are at the core of each program. Much attention is given to the practiceof analyticalwriting and other writing forms.
Each level of English is carefully designed to meet the needs and interests of students of varyingabilities. Placement of each student will be determined by the recommendations of English teachersand guidance counselors.
The following guidelines will be used to determine student placement level within specific Englishcourses:
Honors (H) English
An Honors English student1.  is an abstract thinker.2.  is a passionate, independent learner prepared to generate questions and pursueanswers.3. is an avid and advanced reader – ready, willing, and able to interact with a varietyof complex texts.4. is a mature and sophisticated writer, capable of expressing nuanced ideas in clear and conciseprose.5. is an articulate and thoughtful speaker who actively participates in substantive discussions.6. is an aspiring wordsmith, eager to improve skills in all aspects of English Language Arts.7. completes homework thoughtfully and thoroughly.8. retains material from previous courses.9. absorbs information quickly and readily uses it to make connections.10.maintains an 85 average to be recommended for and continue with the Honors level of work.Students recommended into an honors or AP class should be consistently performing well above hisor her peers in a CP class.
College Preparatory (CP) English
Students recommended for this section will study the same curriculum offered to the honors sections,but will be provided more support.  This is a college preparatory level that ensures that students areprepared for a four year college.
A College Preparatory English student1.  understands and develops abstract thinking skills with guidance.2.  has the ability to be an independent learner and is willing to interact with avariety of complex texts.3.  is a competent writer, capable of expressing ideas with clarity.4.  actively participates in class discussions.5.  completes homework on a consistent basis.6.  retains material from previous courses.7.  makes connections between information learned in English and other subjects.
English I 1 creditGrade 9Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation for (H)Honors (H) and College Preparatory (CP) English:Studyof the foundations of literature—shortstory, novel, drama and poetry—begun in Grade 8 is continued at a more advanced level. Severalfull-length novels are read.  Language study, including grammar, punctuation, sentence structure andusage, is reinforced by frequent written and oral work.  Students are also introduced to the ModernLanguage Association (MLA) style of writing.  Formal preparation for the MCAS exam has begun.Students are also required to participate ina publicspeaking project and a cross-curricular genocideproject.  Completion of additional summer reading is required for the Honors division.
===PAGE 13===
English I Essentials 1 creditGrade 9Prerequisite for Essentials level: Teacher recommendation onlyStudy of the foundations of literature--short story, novel, drama and poetry--begun in Grade 8 iscontinued at a supported level with a modified pace. Several full-length novels are read with anemphasis on reading strategies. Remedial language study, including grammar, punctuation, sentencestructure, and usage, is reinforced by frequent written and oral work. Students are also introduced tothe Modern Language Association (MLA) style of writing. Formal preparation for the MCAS examhas begun. Students are also required to participate in the Freshmen Speaking Project and across-curricular genocide project.
English II 1creditGrade 10Prerequisite for H: teacherrecommendationanda grade of85 or above (H English I) or 90or above (CP English I)
Honors (H) and College Preparatory (CP) EnglishThe emphasis in Grade 10 is on power and society. Novels, plays, and poems are selected because oftheir importance as literature and their appropriateness for high school students. Students will study atleast one Shakespearean play. Expository, narrative, and critical writing will be emphasized, as willpublic speaking. Preparation for the MCAS exam is continued.  Completion of additional summerreading will be required for the Honors level.
English II Essentials 1 creditGrade 10Prerequisite for Essentials level: Teacher recommendation onlyThe emphasis in Grade 10 is on power and society. Novels, plays, and poems are selected because oftheir importance as literature and their appropriateness for high school students. Students will study atleast one Shakespearean play. This course covers core Grade 10 texts at a supported level with amodified pace. Remedial writing instruction and support will be offered in expository, narrative, andcritical writing. Preparation for the MCAS exam is continued.
English III 1 creditGrade 11
Advanced Placement (AP) English Language and CompositionPrerequisite for AP: Teacher recommendationandagrade of 85 or above (H English II) or 90 orabove (CP English II). This course is open to juniors selected on the basis of ability and interest.  Thecourse includes much of what College Prep English students study, but it requires much more work.In AP English Language and Composition, students read works selected not only because of theirimportance as literature, but also for their serviceability in discovery of the elements of rhetoric.  Wewill study rhetorical tactics of expository, analytical, and argumentative essays.  Skills emphasizedwill prepare students who will take the AP English Language and Composition exam. To beconsidered for and to continue in AP Level English, a student must maintain an 85 average.
College Preparatory (CP) English IIIThe emphasis in Grade 11 is on American literature. Students read novels, plays, and poems selectedbecause of their importance to the development of American literature and their appropriateness tothe interest and ability levels of eleventh grade students. Composition work will include creative,expository, and critical writing.Students will betaught how to develop a research paper.  Work invocabulary development will continue.
English IV 1 creditGrade 12Prerequisite: English III
===PAGE 14===
Advanced Placement (AP) English Literatureand CompositionPrerequisite: Teacher recommendationanda grade of85 or above (AP Language & Composition) or90 or above (CP English III) - The Advanced Placement English Literature & Composition course isopen to seniors selected on the basis of ability andinterest in continuing English studies at the collegelevel. The course includes an in-depth examination of poetry, short fiction, long fiction, and drama.Students will be required to complete several independent reading assignments as well as compose anumber of sophisticated, thesis-driven analytical pieces. Finally, students will need to complete asenior project that will assess public speaking skills. The course follows a curriculum established bythe CollegeBoard, and students will be expected to take the AP Literature & Composition exam inMay. A comprehensive summer reading and writing program is also a requirement of the course andwill have multiple due dates over the summer. All work must be completed by due dates foradmission to the course. Assistance will be given in writing essay applications for college admissions.
College Preparatory (CP) EnglishStudents will study a series of units, much like college elective courses, in English. Writingassignments will continue to emphasize the creative, expository, and the critical paper; students willwrite a research paper. Work in vocabulary development will continue. Assistance will be given inwriting essay applications for college admissions. A final senior project is required of all students.
Honors (H) English: Community Service Learning 1 creditPrerequisite for H: teacher recommendation (85 or above grade requirement not applicable)Students study a series of units, much like college elective courses, in English. Writing assignmentswill continue to emphasize the creative, expository, and the critical paper; students will write aresearch paper and methodology. Work in vocabulary development will continue. Assistance will begiven in writing essay applications for college admissions. Additionally, students will be involved in acommunity service learning project. Working individually, or with others, students will research andidentify a community need, create a community partnership, employ a plan of action, and evaluatetheir impact on the problem. Skills in communication (email, phone calls, proposals) that are oftenused in career fields will be developed. Students base their research papers and senior projects ontheir community service learning project.Completion of this course will fulfill the civics project graduation requirement.
World Literature Essentials English 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite for Essentials level: Teacher recommendation onlyIn this two year course,coupled with American LiteratureEssentials English,students will explorecareer and college possibilities and prepare themselves for entering a career-field or post-secondaryeducation setting.  Students will examine, in both fiction and nonfiction, American Literature in oneyear and World Literature the next .  Students will employ critical reading skills and examine chosenworks through a variety of analytical lenses.  Students will study vocabulary, conduct research andwrite analytical essays.  Practice with creative and career-related writing will also be expected.Speaking presentations with technology and media integration will be required.  Students will beaccepted into the course only after completing a recommendationprocess that includes teacher,student, and parent approval.
Film Literacy 0.5 credit(Counts as a Unified Arts credit)Grades10-12Prerequisite: Students must be 17 or have permission from instructorStudents will study film elements, techniques and history.  Films and excerpts from films will beviewed both to illustrate points of instruction and to provide material for critical analysis.Students must participate in discussion, take written tests and read criticism.  Note:  Film Literacydoesnotcount toward the four-year English requirementfor graduation.
Creative Writing 0.5 creditGrades10-12Prerequisite: NoneThis course is meant to spark your literary interests, talents, and inclinations, so that you can walkaway with a clearer image of who you are – or rather, who you might be – as a writer. This applies toeveryone, from those who might have never written before, to those who are fairly decided on theirpreferred forms of writing, and everyone in between. You will read a fair amount of short stories and
===PAGE 15===
poems, and then write your own. You will critique the works of your classmates, and help one anotheron this path of self-discovery and skill improvement.
Journalism 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneThis course will offer students the opportunity to question bias and develop the ability to identifyauthentic, reliable sources and information. Students will build upon the skills taught in their Englishcourses to experience and examine non-academic writing and writing for an audience outside of thehigh school community. Additionally, students will acquire the knowledge and skills to understandthe different story styles and requirements through studying local and national newspapers /magazines.
Public Speaking 0.5 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: NoneStudents are introduced to public speaking as an important component of their academic, work, andsocial lives. They study public speaking occasions and develop skills as fair and critical listeners, orconsumers, of spoken information and persuasion. Students study types of speeches (informative,persuasive, dramatic, and special occasion), read and listen to models of speeches, and prepare andpresent their own speeches to diverse audiences. Students learn to choose speaking topics and adaptthem for specific audiences, to research and support their ideas, and to benefit from listener feedback.They study how to incorporate well-designed visual and multimedia aids in presentations and how tomaintain a credible presence in the digital world. Students also learn about the ethics of publicspeaking and about techniques for managing communication anxiety.
Skepticism and Conspiracies 0.5 creditGrades 10-12, no prerequisites.This course will explore the variety of logical fallacies and argumentative techniques used bypurveyors of conspiracy theories to gain public acceptance. Students will perform individual researchand critical analysis to differentiate between credible claims and disingenuous attempts to "hack" intoaccepted narratives about topics including: the Kennedy assassination, Elvis's whereabouts, Area 51,and more. The course is designed to promote healthy, balanced skepticism of a wide variety of mediasources and is in no way an endorsement of conspiracy-driven argument beyond its potentialentertainment value.
MATHEMATICS
We seek to individualize math instruction at LHS.  Placement in a course is based on a student’s mathability.  Typically students choose from the following courses at their grade level.  Any exceptionsmust be recommended by their teacher and approved by the department chairperson.
9
th
Grade Algebra IAAlgebra I Geometry Geometry H10
th
Grade
Algebra 1BGeometry Algebra II Algebra II H
11
th
Grade
Algebra II Algebra II Pre Calculus or AdvancedMathematical DecisionMaking/Business Math
Pre Calculus H orPre Calculus
12
th
Grade
Geometry Pre Calculus,Statistics orAdvancedMathematicalDecisionMaking/BusinessMath
Calculus, Statistics, orAdvanced MathematicalDecision Making/BusinessMath
AP Calculus AB,Statistics,orCalculus
Note: Honors level coursesare deeper and faster pacedthan the regular college courses, and assume a
===PAGE 16===
considerable amount of time and interest on the part of the student as well as a high level ofperformance.  Mathematics concepts are often introduced at an abstract and theoretical level.Recommendation of the teacher and successful completion of prerequisites are requirements for thesecourses.Honorsand AP level courses will requiresummer work.
Algebra  IA 1 creditGrade 9Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation based on assessment scores.Students who have passedAlgebra I, II or Geometry are not eligible for this course.This is the first course in a two-year sequence that completes Algebra I.  It is a formal study of theintegration of algebra and geometry and also an introduction to statistics.  Students who successfullycomplete this course will normally finish the Algebra I curriculum in the second year course, AlgebraIB.
Algebra IB 1 creditGrade 10Prerequisite: Algebra IA and teacher recommendation.Students who have passed Algebra I, II orGeometry are not eligible for this course.This is the second course in a two-year sequence that completes Algebra I. This course integrates thestudy of algebra, geometry as well as probability and statistics. It is intended to develop proficiencywith mathematical skills, to expand understanding of mathematical concepts and to improve logicalthinking.
Algebra I 1 creditGrade 9Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation.This is the first in a three-year sequence of college preparatory mathematics. It integrates the study ofalgebra and geometry with an emphasis on algebra and also introduces probability and statistics.Topics include operations with the real numbers, solving linear equations and inequalities, graphinglinear functions, exponents, quadratic functions, and factoring.Students at LHS with a grade less than 70 in Algebra I, IA, IB or Algebra II are encouraged toenroll in summer school or retake the course the following yearto strengthen theirmathematical foundation. Elective credit is available.
Geometry 1 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: Algebra I or Algebra 1BThis is the second course in the three-year sequence that makes up the core of the math program.Itintegrates the study of algebra and geometry, with an emphasis on formal geometric concepts.  Topicsinclude study of Euclidean geometric postulates and theorems with the integration of algebraicconcepts.  Formal proofs are included at the honors level.Honors Geometry: Requires a grade of 90 or higher in either Advanced Common Core 8 orAlgebra 1 AND recommendation of teacher.
Algebra II 1creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite:   Algebra 1 and GeometryOR Algebra1A and Algebra 1BThis is the third course in the three-year sequence that makes up the "core" of the mathematicsprogram at Lunenburg High School.  It integrates the study of algebra and geometry, with anemphasis on trigonometry, and linear and nonlinear functions. The course is intended to developproficiency with mathematical skills, to expand understanding of mathematical concepts, and toimprove logical thinking.Honors Algebra II: Requires a grade of at least 85 in the Honors Geometry ANDrecommendation of teacher.
Precalculus 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite:GeometryandAlgebraIIwithagradeofatleast85inAlgebraII ORrecommendationof teacher.This course is similar to Precalculus H but with more time spent on trigonometry and less on topicsfrom analytic geometry. The treatment of the other topics is less abstract than in Precalculus H.
===PAGE 17===
Topics include: polynomial functions, radical functions, exponential and logarithmic functions,rational functions and trigonometric functions.
Honors (H) Precalculus 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Algebra II Honors with a grade ofatleast80 ANDrecommendation of teacher.NOTE: Students not in the Honors Math Program must attain a grade of at least 90 and receivethe approval of the Mathematics Department Head.This course is designed as an extension of a student's previous three years of college preparatorymathematics. The objective is to provide a mathematically sound preparation for calculus.Topics will be selected from trigonometry, advanced algebra, and analytical geometry. Precalculus His a more sophisticated course which will cover more material at a more abstract level thanPrecalculus.
Statistics 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Geometry and Algebra IIThis course is for students continuing their study in mathematics after the completion of Algebra II.Many academic programs at the college level include statistics as a requirement, and the ability tointerpret data is critical in the modern world. The focus of this course will cover the concepts andmethods of collecting, analyzing, and drawing conclusions from data. Big idea topics includeinterpreting categorical and quantitative data, making inferences and justifying conclusions asked onsuch data, distributions and hypothesis testing, and using probability to make decisions aboutreal-world applications. The use of technology is integrated throughout the course.
Calculus 1 creditGrade 12Prerequisite:  Precalculus course with a grade ofat least 85  OR recommendation of teacher.This course is designed for motivated students who desire a rigorous non-AP Calculus course.Students will study functions, limits, continuity, derivatives of algebraic and trigonometric functions,integration, and applications of differential and integral calculus.  This course will include a review oftopics from previous courses and will extend to topics covered in a college course.  A TI-84calculator isrequiredfor this class.
Advanced Placement (AP) CalculusAB 1 creditGrade 12Prerequisite: Honors Precalculus course with a grade of at least 80 or Pre Calculus course with agrade of at least 90 AND recommendation of teacher.This course is designed for the mathematically talented student as an introduction to differential andintegral calculus, with emphasis on functions, limits, and techniques. It provides a review and reasonfor the student's previous mathematical background. This course prepares students to take theAdvanced Placement exam in Calculus. The material in this course follows the Advanced PlacementProgram curriculum and is comparable to a college level course.A TI-84 calculator isrequiredfor this class.
Students will be expected to take the AP exam in May.Students interested in taking the SAT II subject test will be eligible in December of their senior year.
Advanced Mathematical Decision Making 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II and teacher recommendationThis is a course designed to follow the successful completion of Algebra II.  The course includes astrong emphasis on statistics, an ongoing thread of financial applications, and the use of mathematicalmodels from discrete mathematics, algebra, geometry, and trigonometry to solve complex problemsin a range of engaging contexts.*If this course is taken to fulfill senior year math requirements, students must also take BusinessMath the opposite semester.
Algebra IIEssentials 1creditGrades 11-12
===PAGE 18===
Prerequisite:   Algebra 1A,  Algebra 1B,and teacher recommendationThis is the third course in a sequential program that is structured to meet the basic requirements ofcollege entrance.
It is designed to meet the commoncore standards for algebra 2. It continues to buildon algebra 1 concepts. Topics to be studied include: linear and quadratic functions, polynomialfunctions, inverse functions, radical functions, and exponential functions.
Business Math 0.5 creditGrades:  11-12Prerequisites: Algebra IIThis course is for students continuing their study in mathematics after the completion of Algebra II.This course will provide coverage of personal and business mathematics. In addition to reviewingoperations of arithmetic, students are prepared to understand and manage personal finances, as well asgrasp the fundamentals of business finances. Math skills are used to complete all business activities.Course will engage students in the real world and provide coverage of contemporary topics: how tomanage net pay, get a loan, buy a car, invest wisely and other useful information that students can usein their everyday lives.*If this course is taken to fulfill senior year math requirements, students must also take AdvancedMathematical Decision Making the opposite semester.
Math Skills Building 0.5 credit (elective)Grades: 9-12Prerequisite: Recommendation from LHS StaffThis course is designed to provide support for students who struggle with a variety of skills thatwould inhibit their ability to fully access and engage with their inclusion math curriculum. The focusof the class is individual to the students and their current areas of growth which could include, but arenot limited to; math fact fluency, fractions, decimals, percents, and pre-algebra skills. This class isbased on a Tier II intervention model and provides support to students who require more support inaddition to their core curriculum through a systematic, data driven, and purposeful process. Responseto Intervention (RtI) is the practice of providing high quality instruction and interventions matched tostudent need, monitoring progress frequently to make decisions about changes in instruction or goalsand applying student-outcome data to important educational decisions. RtI should be applied todecisions in general, remedial and special education, creating a well-integrated system ofinstruction/intervention, guided by student outcome data. (NASDSE, 2008).
SOCIAL STUDIES
All students must successfully complete three years of social studies to graduate from LunenburgHigh School.
This requirement includes the following sequence:9
th
grade: World History: The Modern Era10th grade:U.S. History: The Colonial Era through the Present10-12 grade:One Social Studies credit (of which at least 0.5 credit must be history based)
Honors & College Prep Modern World History(SS/HIST) 1 creditGrade 9Required course for graduationPrerequisite for Honors level: Recommendation by 8th grade teacherThe Modern World History course covers the late 17th - 21st century world. The course focuses onthe Scientific Revolution, the Enlightenment, major 19th & 20th century revolutions,industrialization, economic ideologies, nationalism, imperialism, world wars, technologicaladvancements, globalization, and the continuing persistence of political, ethnic, and religious conflictin many parts of the world. Student skills will focus on reading and deciphering primary sources,using primary sources as evidence to back up historical theses, and accessing and utilizing databasesto conduct research.Completion of additional summer reading is required for the Honors level.
Honors & College Prep United States History(SS/HIST) 1 credit
===PAGE 19===
Grade 10Required course for graduation:Prerequisite for the Honors level: World History & Recommendation of 9
th
grade World HistoryteacherThe United States History course covers American history from the mid 18th century to the presentfocusing on the emergence of the United States as a nation, expansion west, slavery, the Civil War,the emergence of the United States as a world economic and military power as well as Americansocial history from the progressive movement through current movements in civil rights,immigration, and technology. Throughout the course, students will read and analyze primary sourcesand apply research skills independently.Completion of additional summer reading is required for the Honors level.
Advanced Placement United States History II(SS/HIST) 1 creditGrade 11Prerequisite: US History & recommendation from 10th grade US History teacherThis course is designed to prepare students to achieve success on the Advanced Placement Exam inUnited States History. This course covers American history from 1491 to the present by examiningnine distinct time periods from the eve of Columbus’ landing to current world affairs. Students willuse major events, key players, and turning points in American history to develop historical thinkingskills like continuity and change, contextualization, comparison, and causation. During the year,students will be expected to do a significant amount of reading, writing, and independent research.Completion of additional summer reading is required for the AP level.
The Medieval Experience (SS/HIST) 0.5 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: Recommendation from Social Studies teacherIn this Honors-designated course, students will explore the politics, theology, territorial reach, andsocio-economic dynamics of both Western Christendom and Dar-al Islam between the fall of theRoman Empire and La Reconquista. The semester will entail a vigorous research component, wherestudents will sharpen their skills analyzing texts, art, and architecture from cultural milieus farremoved from their own.Completion of additional summer reading is required for the Honors level.
Early America(SS/HIST) 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: United States HistoryIn this college prep semester course, students will examine the everyday lives of Colonial Americansthrough a social, political, geographic, economic, and religious lense. Topics covered will includeexploration, witch trials, epidemics, battles, cooking, family structure, local politics, AlexanderHamilton, and much more. This half semester course will include a research project that willstrengthen their understanding of some of America's earliest settlers and the United States' originstory.
American History Through Pop Culture(SS/HIST) 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: United States HistoryThis course is designed to provide students with an in-depth understanding of American popularculture and its impact on society throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. Through a variety ofengaging and interactive activities, students will explore the ways in which popular culture reflectsand shapes social, political, and economic trends in the United States. Students will do this byanalyzing a range of popular culture phenomena, fads, and trends, including newspapers, film,music, television, literature, and social media. They will examine the ways in which differentgroups and communities interact with and are represented in popular culture. In addition, studentswill also consider the industries and institutions that produce and distribute it, as well as the role ofconsumerism and marketing in shaping popular culture. Each unit will include an overview of thetime period and the significant historical developments of the period to place and examine thepopular cultural developments that coincided with them. The goal is for students to gain the toolsnecessary to critically analyze and engage with popular culture both past and present in theireveryday lives.
===PAGE 20===
Nuclear Age (SS/HIST) 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: United States HistoryIn this College Prep-designated course, students will chart the evolution of post-World War IIAmerican culture, politics, and economic phenomena in tandem with Cold War international policyand conflict through the Reagan administration. The semester will include a research componentwhere students will strengthen their critical reading abilities across modern media – texts, film,television, and advertising.
The Fight for Civil Rights(SS/HIST) 0.5 creditGrades 11- 12Prerequisite: United States HistoryStudents will have the opportunity to analyze, discuss, and evaluate the history of civil rightsmovements in America. In a module-designed format, students will explore the challenges variousmarginalized groups experienced in their fight for equality, enfranchisement, recognition, andrepresentation. Each module follows a similar structure for the sake of uniformity. Students will siftthrough introductory materials, followed by a deep dive into challenging primary sources.Afterwards, students will engage in a discussion, mock congress, or mock trial based on thechallenges, issues, and obstacles that civil rights movements encountered in the past and today. For afinal assessment, students will develop authentic outreach projects to inform and further educate thecommunity on the issues of inequality, injustice, and prejudice, which unfortunately continue toplague our modern society.
Economics(SS) 0.5 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: NoneThis semester-long elective course will introduce students to basic economic concepts and issues.Structured as an interactive activity based experience, major issues confronting the world today willbe discussed including capitalism, international trade, money and value, supply and demand, bankingand entrepreneurship. Strongly recommended for students who plan on taking economics or pursuinga business degree in college.
Psychology(SS) 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: NoneThis introductory course attempts to help students better understand human behaviors. This coursewill focus on the normal course of human development as well as on the cause and treatment ofmental illness. The course will cover the basic terminology and theories of psychology and will try tomake them relevant to students' lives.
Advanced Placement (AP) U.S. Government and Politics(SS) 1 creditGrade 12Prerequisite –US HistoryAP- U.S. Government and Politics is an intensive study of key political concepts, ideas, institutions,policies, interactions, roles, and behaviors that characterize the constitutional system and politicalculture of the United States. You will study U.S. foundational documents, Supreme Court decisions,and other texts and visuals to gain an understanding of the relationships and interactions amongpolitical institutions, processes, and behavior. You will also engage in disciplinary practices thatrequire you to read and interpret data, make comparisons and applications, and developevidence-based arguments.
Introduction to Law (SS) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12The Intro. to Law course includes learning about the civil and criminal legal process, case law andlegal rulings as well as contract creation and interpretation. It is highly recommended that you jointhe Mock Trial team when taking this course as there will be a strong connection to the Mock Trialprogram. This course is particularly useful for those who will pursue careers in the legal field or lawenforcement.
===PAGE 21===
Civic & Community Engagement(General elective) 0.5 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: NoneIn this semester long course students will complete a student-created civics project within theircommunity. Students will identify an issue, research route causes, develop a project, and meet withstakeholders in the community.Completion of this course will fulfill the civics project graduation requirement.
SCIENCE
All students must successfully completeTHREE yearsof science to graduate from Lunenburg HighSchool.PreAP/Honors- Honorscourses,especiallychemistryandphysics,requirea deepmathematicalbackground.Thesehigher-reasoningskillsareusedindailyproblemsolvingandcriticalanalysisofproblemsanddata.Courseswillprovidedeepercoverageofthecurriculummaterial,maycovermaterialoutsidethestandardcurriculum,andmaymoveata fasterpacethannon-Honorscourses.Studentsshouldexpecthomeworknightly. Studentsarerecommendedbytheirpreviousscienceteacher.
COLLEGEPREP- Thesecoursesaredesignedto builda solidfundamentalbackgroundin thesciencesforsuccessinfuturehighschoolcoursesandincollegecourses.Studentsatthislevelshouldstillexpectself-directedinquirylearning,butwithmoreteacherdirectionthanthehonorslevel.Studentswillapplymathandwritingskillsdaily. Studentsshouldexpecthomeworkregularly.Thesecourseswillalsocompriseformallabreports,writtenessays,groupactivitiesanddiscussions,andother projects.
COLLEGEPREPESSENTIALS- Thesecoursesaredesignedforstudentswhowouldbemoresuccessfulin a highlyorganized,supportedclassroom.Studentswillbenefitfromcloseteachersupervision,a morepersonalizedpace,andincreasedteachingapproachesdesignedtofosterstrongfundamentalskillsandtohelpbuildreasoningskills.Studentsshouldexpecthomeworkregularly,andtobeactivelyengagedinclassroomactivitiesanddiscussionsdaily. Studentsinthesesectionsusuallyalsobenefitfromindividualizedattentionand smallerclasssizes.TheScienceDepartmentrecommendsplacementintothesecoursesbasedonprioracademicperformance,classroomteacherrecommendation, results from standardized testing, and guidance counselor recommendation.
Suggested Course Sequence:
Honors /Pre- AP CP CP Essentials
9th Honors Biology* Physical Science of the EarthPhysical ScienceEssentials*
10th Honors Chemistry Biology* Biology Essentials(*if needed)
11th AP Biology/AP Chemistry/ HonorsAnatomy & Physiology/Honors Physics/   &Science Electives
Chemistryand/orElectives:Astronomy/Bioethics/Biotechnology/Ecology/EnvironmentalScience/Horticulture/ HumanBiology/ Intro toBiotechnology/ Physics
Biology (* if needed)OR Electives:Astronomy/Bioethics/Biotechnology/Ecology/EnvironmentalScience/Horticulture/Human Biology/ Intro toBiotechnology/
12th AP Biology/AP Chemistry/ Honors
AP of choiceand/orElectives:Astronomy/ Bioethics/
Electives:Astronomy/Bioethics/
===PAGE 22===
Anatomy & Physiology/Honors Physics/   &Science Electives
Biotechnology/Ecology/EnvironmentalScience/Horticulture/ HumanBiology/ Intro toBiotechnology/ Physics
Biotechnology/Ecology/EnvironmentalScience/Horticulture/Human Biology/ Intro toBiotechnology/*MCAS will be taken at the end of the year.
Physical Science of the Earth 1 creditGrade 9Prerequisite: NoneThis lab science covers the physical laws of nature as they apply to planet Earth.  Students willexperiment with force-based activities, types of motion and the nature of the electromagneticspectrum.  Principles of matter and energy will be investigated, including heat transfer and gravity.Connections to astronomy, geology and meteorology will be emphasized.  This full year, one creditcourse is most appropriate for 9
th
graders.
Physical Science Essentials 1 creditGrade 9Prerequisite: Recommendation of previous science teacherThisisaphysicalsciencecoursespecificallydesignedforrecommended9
th
gradestudentsbeginningtheirHighSchoolsciencecurriculum.Thiscourseprovidesanin-depthinvestigationofmatterandenergy. Laboratoryinvestigations,demonstrations,anddiscussionsincludethe basicphysicalconceptsin motionandforces,conservationofenergyandmomentum,thermodynamics(heatandheattransfer),waves,andelectromagnetism.Thisprogramincludessubstantialhands-onlaboratoryexperiences.  Students will take the MCAS exam in Introductory Physics at the end of the year.
Biology 1 creditGrade 10Prerequisite: Physical Science of the Earth  or Engineeringthe FutureThis full year course prepares all students for a college level biology class delving into the followingtopics mandated by the Massachusetts Biology Frameworks.Classification/organization of life utilizing microscopes, macromolecules (carbohydrates,proteins, lipids and nucleic acids), diffusion/osmosis, enzymes, cellularrespiration/photosynthesis, DNA/protein synthesis, mitosis/meiosis, genetics, evolution,ecology and anatomy/physiology (digestion, respiration, circulatory, skeletal, muscular andnervous systems).Students will take the MCAS exam in Biology at the beginning of June.
Biology Essentials 1 creditGrade 10Prerequisite: Recommendation of previous science teacherThis full year course prepares all students for a college level biology class focusing on the followingtopics mandated by the Massachusetts Biology Frameworks.  Classification/organization of lifeutilizing microscopes, macromolecules (carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids),diffusion/osmosis, enzymes, cellular respiration/photosynthesis, DNA/protein synthesis,mitosis/meiosis, genetics, evolution, ecology and anatomy/physiology (digestion, respiration,circulatory, skeletal, muscular and nervous systems).Students will take the MCAS exam in Biology at the beginning of June.
Honors (H) Biology 1 creditGrades 9-10Prerequisite: Recommendation of previous science teacherHonors level Biology is designed for the student who not only has a high level of understanding inscience, but who has also demonstrated outstanding abilities in math, writing and readingcomprehension.  The course will cover the state frameworks listed in the standard Biology course ingreater depth than the standard Biology level.Students will take the MCAS exam in Biology at the beginning of June.
===PAGE 23===
Chemistry 1 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: BiologyThis course is designed for the college bound student. The course will cover properties of matter,atomic structure, periodicity, chemical bonding, chemical reactions and stoichiometry, gases andkinetic molecular theory, solutions, acids and bases, equilibrium and kinetics, thermochemistry,oxidation-reduction, and electrochemistry. Emphasis will be placed on laboratory experiences andhands-on activities.
Honors (H) Chemistry 1 creditGrades 10-11Prerequisite: Recommendation Biology TeacherThis full year course is designed to prepare the advanced student for upper level science courses,including Advanced Placement Chemistry in the junior or senior year. It will cover all of the sametopics as the standard course, but in greater depth.
Honors (H) Physics l creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Recommendation form science teacher and successful completion of Algebra II (Honors80 or better, College Prep 90 or better) and must be enrolled in pre-calculus or higher mathHonors Physics honors is a lab based course with an emphasis on using and applying math skills tosolve real world problems.  The course analyzes Newtonian Laws of Motion through multipledimensions and continues through circular motion, conservation of energy, electricity, magnetism,and optics in a year-long course.  Students will be expected to complete projects, conduct inquirylessons, and relate classroom experience to lab activity. Lab reports will be an importantassessment in the course.
Physics 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Recommendation from science teacher and successful completion of Algebra II andenrolled in pre-calculus or higher math.College physics is a lab based course with an emphasis on concepts and using math skills to solvereal world problems.  The course analyzes Newtonian laws of Motion through multiple dimensionsand continues through circular motion, conservation of energy, electricity, magnetism, and opticsin a year-long course.  Students will be expected to complete projects, conduct inquiry lessons,and relate classroom experience to lab activity.  Lab reports will be an important assessment in thecourse.
Horticulture I 0.5 creditGrades 11-12(Fall) Prerequisite: 9
th
and 10
th
grade scienceThis half-year course is an introduction to the study of plants and their uses. The course will cover thebasic structure and function of plants, the identification of some major families of houseplants,greenhouse management and floral and plant crafts. Students will be involved in lab activities 2-3days per week and will work in the greenhouse at least one day per week. Students will create andcare for several plant projects that they can take home.
Horticulture II 0.5 creditGrades 11-12(Spring) Prerequisite: Horticulture IThis half-year course is being offered as a continuation of Introduction to Horticulture I.  Several areas ofhorticulture will be examined through more in-depth studies and projects. A plant collection and othermore advanced greenhouse projects are included.
Honors (H) Anatomy/Physiology 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Completion of Biology , Chemistry  andTeacher RecommendationAnatomy and Physiology is an honors level course designed for juniors or seniors who have a stronginterest in biology and/or medicine. The course starts with a study of the body systems, chemistry,cytology and histology during which students will use the microscope to become familiar with thecharacteristics of the cells and tissues that make up the human body. The remainder of the course will
===PAGE 24===
cover the major organ systems of the human body from two perspectives, (1) anatomy, which is thestudy of the structure of the body and how those structures are related to each other and (2)physiology, the study of how those structures work. The anatomical aspects are studied primarilythrough the dissection of a cow bone, sheep heart, sheep kidney, cow eye, sheep brain and fetal pig.
Environmental Science 0.5 creditGrades 11-12(Spring and Fall)Prerequisite: Successful completion of 9
th
and 10
th
grade scienceIn this half year course students are introduced to a systematic process for environmental decisionmaking. It will ask them to identify and prioritize the consequences of decisions that affect theenvironment. Students will learn about carrying capacity, global population trends, resourceconsumption, food webs, ecosystems, sustainability, geographic visualization and informationanalysis technologies. Other topics include energy resources, water use, recycling and conservation,dam and river flow dynamics, and water storage in aquifers.
Astronomy 0.5 creditGrades 11-12(Spring and Fall)Prerequisite: BiologyA wide variety of issues will be addressed in the project-based course. Students will gatherinformation about the universe through observation and calculation. Students will also write aboutastronomy's role in our society and the future of space exploration. A strong math background and afamiliarity with computers will be helpful. Students are encouraged to attend at least one "star party"in the evening.
Advanced Placement (AP) Chemistry 1.5 creditsGrades 11-12Prerequisite:Chemistry and teacher recommendationThis course is designed to be the equivalent of the general chemistry course usually taken during thefirst college year. Students should attain a greater depth of understanding of fundamentals and shoulddevelop a higher competence in dealing with chemical problems. This course differs qualitativelyfrom other high school chemistry courses with respect to the kind of textbook used, topics covered,the emphasis on chemical calculations and the mathematical formulation of principles, and the kindof laboratory work done by students. Quantitative differences appear in the number of topics covered,the time spent on the course by students, and the nature and variety of experiments done in the lab.*Students will be expected to take the Advanced Placement exam inMay.
Advanced Placement (AP) Biology 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite:  Biology, Chemistry and teacher recommendation.This course is designed to be the equivalent of a college freshman Introduction to Biology.  Studentswho are interested in the biological fields should attain a much greater understanding of the conceptsand principles that were studied in the first year of high school Biology.  Much time and dedication tothe material will be required in order to attain the level of success dictated by this course.  Thetextbook will be on a college level and all students are expected to take the AP exam in May.
Bioethics 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: NoneThis course will center around various topics that students will need to research and defend oroppose.The curriculum is created with students andmay include areas such asstem cell research, invitro fertilization, organ donation, and genetically engineered food.  The course is designed forjuniors and seniors as it requires a level of maturity consistent with upper class students.
Introduction to Biotechnology (with Applications) 0.5 creditsGrades 11-12Prerequisite: Biology
===PAGE 25===
This course is designed to be a hands-on lab program. It will aim to acquaint students with thediverse field of biotechnology. Topics will include a brief history of biotechnology, jobopportunities in biotechnology, recombinant DNA and protein products, microbialbiotechnology, plant biotechnology, medical biotechnology, and DNA fingerprinting andforensic analysis. Current ethical issues such as stem cell research and cloning will also bediscussed.
Human Biology 1 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: BiologyThis full year course is an introduction to the study of the human body.   Students will connectstructure to function of the major body systems.  Knowledge will be applied to understand howdisease and injuries impactthe body.  This classis heavily project based and students will make manybody system models.  The majority of dissections will take place in the second half of the year.  Theanatomical aspects are studied primarily through the dissection of a cow bone, sheep heart, sheepkidney, cow eye, sheep brain and fetal pig.
Ecology of New England 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite:  BiologyThis class is a study of our natural surroundings and our interactions with them.  Students willlearn about the plants and animals familiar to New England as well as the area’s ecosystemsand habitats.  The geology of New England’s mountains and coastlines will be covered.There may also be an agricultural component where we will be growing vegetables.  Studentswill be going outside regularly in a variety of weather conditions and will be expected to dophysical work at times.  If possible, we will visit local farms and take field trips to study floraand fauna.
Computer Science/ Coding 0.5 creditsGrades 11-12Technology and the Internet are all dependent on different types of code and algorithms workingtogether to solve all the world’s problems. Technology is a huge part of our daily life. We all aredependent on it. New inventions and developments are opening doors for creativity and a brightfuture.  With these new developments through code, maintenance for that code is also required, whichwelcomes new jobs for Code testers, Quality Assurance Engineers, IT experts, and many more.Coding is a career that has no defined boundaries or limits.
WORLD LANGUAGES
The graduation requirement for Lunenburg High School is 2 years of the sameworldlanguagecompleted in grades 9-12. Please be advised the grade 8world language experience does notcounttowards the credit needed for graduation. Manyselective colleges and universities requirethree or four years of study of the same foreign language as a requirement for admission.
World Language courses focus on the National and State Learning Standards:The WorldLanguages Massachusetts Curriculum Framework - 2021as well as theACTFLWorld-Readiness Standards for Learning Languages.
World Language Electives,open to all students grades9-12 are:
Spanish I/French I1 credit Grades 9-12Prerequisite: None
This course is taught using comprehensible input, an instructional technique in whichstudents acquire language by listening and reading to support their eventual output of
===PAGE 26===
writing and speaking. Culture as well as topics which include students’ interests and livesare embedded in the curriculum.  We read and listen to stories, play games, read currentevents, watch films, listen to music, and explore the Spanish/French speaking worlds. Thegoal is for students to demonstrate anovice-mid levelof proficiencyin listening, reading,writing and speaking as well as learn cultural aspects of the Spanish/French speakingworld.
Latin I1 credit Grades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneThis course will introduce students to the language, culture and mythology of ancient Rome,Pompeii and Roman Britain. The study of Latin vocabulary, grammar, short stories and songs, willprovide the student with a basic understanding of the Latin language. Emphasis on Latin root wordsand commonly used Latin phrases will also highlight Latin as the foundation of the Englishlanguage.
Spanish II/French II1 credit Grades 9-12Prerequisite: Teacher Recommendation and successful completion of level I.This level 2 course is taught using comprehensible input, an instructional technique inwhich students acquire language by listening and reading to support their eventual outputof writing and speaking. Culture as well as topics which include students’ interests andlives are embedded in the curriculum.  We read and listen to stories, play games, readcurrent events, watch films, listen to music, and explore the Spanish/French speakingworlds. The goal is for students to demonstrate anovice-high level of proficiencyinlistening, reading, writing and speaking as well as learn cultural aspects of theSpanish/French speaking world.
Latin II1 credit Grades 9-12Prerequisite: Teacher Recommendation and successful completion of level I. In the second year ofLatin, The student continues the study of the language through the culture, mythology and historyof ancient Rome, Alexandria and Roman Britain. There is an increased emphasis on vocabulary,grammar, short stories and song to enhance the student’s understanding of the language. Thestudent’s translation skills advance along with an appreciation for Latin as the basis of the Englishlanguage.
Spanish  III/French III - Honors(H) Spanish III/FrenchIII1 credit Grades 10-12Prerequisite: Successful completion of Level II and teacher recommendation.This level 3 course is taught using comprehensible input, an instructional technique inwhich students acquire language by listening and reading to support their eventual outputof writing and speaking. Culture as well as topics which include students’ interests andlives are embedded in the curriculum. We read and listen to stories, play games, readcurrent events, watch films, listen to music, and explore the Spanish/French speakingworlds. The goal is for students to demonstrate anintermediate-low level of proficiencyinlistening, reading, writing and speaking as well as learn cultural aspects of theSpanish/French speaking world. Honors level students study more challenging texts andhave a higher expectation for oral and written language output.
Honors (H) Latin III1 credit Grades 10-12Prerequisite: Successful completion of Level II and teacher recommendation This course continuesto focus on the language, culture and mythology of ancient Rome. The writings of Caesar andCicero provide a backdrop for the history of the Roman Republic while the letters of Pliny offer afirst person account of the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius and the foundations of the Roman Empire. Anadvanced study of vocabulary and grammar increases translation skills. The study of Englishvocabulary derivation continues. A look at Greek and Roman sculpture and painting also provideinsight into the daily life of ancient times. The Latin III Honors student will develop a deeperunderstanding of authentic prose text and appreciation of rhetorical devices.
Latin III1 credit Grades 10-12Prerequisite: Successful completion of Level II and teacher recommendation. This coursecontinues to focus on the language, culture and mythology of ancient Rome. The writings of
===PAGE 27===
Caesar and Cicero provide a backdrop for the history of the Roman Republic while the letters ofPliny offer a first person account of the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius and the foundations of the RomanEmpire. Vocabulary and grammar increase the student’s translation skills. The study also provideinsight into the daily life of ancient times
Spanish IV/French IV-Honors (H) Spanish IV/FrenchIV1 credit Grades 11-12Prerequisite: Successful completion of Level III and teacher recommendationThis level 4 course is taught using comprehensible input, an instructional technique inwhich students acquire language by listening and reading to support their eventual outputof writing and speaking. Culture as well as topics which include students’ interests andlives are embedded in the curriculum. We read and listen to stories, play games, readcurrent events, watch films, listen to music, and explore the Spanish/French speakingworlds. The goal is for students to demonstrate anintermediate-mid level of proficiencyinlistening, reading, writing and speaking as well as learn cultural aspects of theSpanish/French speaking world. Honors level students study more challenging texts andhave a higher expectation for oral and written language output.
Latin IV1 credit Grades 11-12Prerequisite: Successful completion of Level III and recommendation of teacher The fourth year ofLatin introduces the student to the Golden Age of Latin poetry. Theodesof Horace, the lyricpoetry of Catullus and theMetamorphosesof Ovid.These literary masterpieces are compared andcontrasted with ancient and modern pieces of literature. A review of grammar and vocabularyenhances translation skills.
Honors (H) Latin IV1 credit Grades 11-12Prerequisite Successful completion of Level III and recommendation of teacher Latin IV Honorsintroduces the student to the Golden Age of Latin poetry. A deeper understanding of authenticpoetry text and appreciation of rhetorical devices are covered in the literary masterpieces ofTheOdesof Horace, the lyric poetry of Cattullus andtheMetamorphosesof Ovid, comparing andcontrasting with ancient and modern pieces of literature. Grammar, vocabulary and translationskills are reviewed at an accelerated pace. Students will do research and presentations on varioustopics relative to course content.
Spanish V/French V-Honors (H) Spanish V/French V1credit Grades 12Prerequisite: Successful completion of Level IV and teacher recommendation.This level 5 course is taught using comprehensible input, an instructional technique inwhich students acquire language by listening and reading to support their eventual outputof writing and speaking. Culture as well as topics which include students’ interests andlives are embedded in the curriculum. We read and listen to stories, play games, readcurrent events, watch films, listen to music, and explore the Spanish/French speakingworlds. The goal is for students to demonstrate anintermediate-mid - intermediate highlevel of proficiencyin listening, reading, writingand speaking as well as learn culturalaspects of the Spanish/French speaking world. Honors level students study morechallenging texts and have a higher expectation for oral and written language output.
Latin V1 credit Grade 12Prerequisite: Level IV and recommendation of teacherStudents will continue to develop their translation skills while reading the lyric poetry of Virgil’sAeneidand the prose writings of Caesar. Studentswill also learn to analyze and interpret Latinpoetry and prose.
Advanced Placement (AP) French/Spanish Language1credit Grade 12Prerequisite: Level IV and recommendation of teacherThis is a first year college level course offered at the secondary level. Students are expected to takethe AP exam in May. The global themes set forth by the College Board will enable the student tobecome more aware of the history and culture of the Hispanic/Francophone world. In preparationfor the exam, emphasis will be placed upon oral and written fluency in the language, bothpresentational and interpersonal, review of grammar, and exposure to authentic materials in audiorecordings and reading selections. The student will be assessed according to the indicators or
===PAGE 28===
rubrics developed by the College Board of the AP Spanish/French Languages and Culture Exam.The student will receive a portfolio of reading and listening activities for continued practice of thelanguage during the summer prior to the academic year.
Advanced Placement (AP) Latin1 credit Grade 12Prerequisite: Level IV and recommendation of teacher.This is a first year college level course offered at the secondary level. Students will continue todevelop their translation skills while reading the lyric poetry of Virgil’sAeneidand the prosewritings of Caesar. Students will also learn to analyze and interpret Latin poetry and prose.Students are expected to take the AP exam in May.
HEALTH EDUCATION
Health Education       0.5 creditGrade 9 (paired with Physical Education)Prerequisite: None                                                            Required course for graduationThis course focuses on physical, emotional, and social health issues. It has been designed toprovide students with knowledge and sensitivity to a variety of difficult issues with which they areconfronted during their lives. The goal of this course is to provide students with the knowledge andskills needed to make sound health decisions.Topics to be covered are as follows:• Wellness, Stress, Time Management, Health and Risk Behaviors• Drug and Alcohol Information and Ways to Reduce Risks• Abuse and Ways to Keep Safe• Sexuality, Relationships, and Good Decision Making.
Thresholds to Adulthood 1 creditGrade 12Prerequisite: Health EducationThis course has been developed for seniors to explore all aspects of their physical, mental, andsocial well-being.  This is a course all about YOU! The goal of the course is to learn more aboutyourself, appreciate the people in your life as you embark on this next chapter of your life called“adulthood”, and prepare you as an independent young adult.  Topics to be covered but are not limited to are as follows:• Self Issues/Goal Setting/What does our future Hold?• Family & Relationships• Wellness, Health, Safety (a Self Defense Training may be an option if the  group is interested)• Sexuality/Relationships• Budgeting/Living on Your OwnDecisions on other topics will be shared by the teacher and students according to individual needs andinterests. This hands-on course will include discussions & debates, guest speakers, group andindividual assignments.
Current Trends in Health 0.5 creditGrades 10-12(Student who took this course in 9th grade remotely will not be eligible for this course)Prerequisite:  Health EducationThis course will provide students the opportunity to explore current trends in health.  The goal of thecourse is to develop health literate students who practice making informed and healthy choices.  Thecourse will have an emphasis on developing and applying critical thinking skills to real life scenarios.Class discussions, respectful debate, group and individual assignments will all be a part of this hands-on course.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION (PE)
Allstudentsarerequiredtoearn1.5creditsinPhysicalEducationbeforetheyareeligiblefor
===PAGE 29===
graduation. The Physical Education graduation requirement can be met in two different ways:
-Physical Education 9 (.5 credit)-Semester electives (.5 credits each)
Physical Education 9 0.5 creditGrade 9Through participation in physical education, students will have an opportunity to learn newskills, develop teamwork, and enhance their physical well-being. This course supports andcomplements the Health course that is required for all 9
th
grade students. Appropriate gymclothing and footwear are required for this course.
PE Semester Elective Courses 0.5 creditGrades 10-12The following courses are offered during the term indicated. Students are encouraged to selectelective courses based on their interests and fitness needs. Appropriate gym clothing and footwear arerequired for all courses.
Beginner Bigger, Faster, StrongerFall/Spring 0.5 creditThis course is for students who want to improve their physical being through weight and plyometrictraining. The course will follow the Bigger, Faster, Stronger weight training program.
Advanced Bigger, Faster, StrongerFall/Spring 0.5 creditThis course is for students who want to improve their physical being through weight and plyometrictraining. The course will follow the Bigger, Faster, Stronger weight training program.
Competitive Team SportsFall/Spring 0.5creditIf you enjoy the games from 9th grade PE or General PE but want to be surrounded by studentslooking to play at a more competitive level this is the class for you. This class is geared towardstudents that enjoy friendly competition and want to be challenged by other students looking toparticipate in that same kind of competitive atmosphere.
Fit for Life 0.5 creditWant to learn to be FIT for LIFE?  This course will focus on total body fitnessthrough various typesof workouts utilizing our state-of-the-art work out space and cardio equipment. We will explore avariety of workouts including but not limited to: circuit workouts, weight training, yoga andflexibility.  All fitness levels and abilities are encouraged to take this course.  
General Physical EducationFall/Spring 0.5 creditStudents enrolled in this class will take a broad based approach to physical education.  Activities willinclude but are not limited to the following: soccer, flag football, speedball, softball, volleyball,basketball as well as daily workout sessions.  This course is designed for the student who would like avariety of activities for addressing fitness needs throughout the semester.
TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
Technology Education offers a variety of classes that are interdisciplinary in nature and providesignificant reinforcement of traditional academic classes.  The strongest linkages are with science andmathematics.  Most of the classes are presented using a problem solving approach. TechnologyEducation courses are awarded unified arts credit.
Introduction to CAD and Product Development (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneThis course will introduce students to solid 3D modeling using industry standard software:Rhinocerus 3D.  Students will learn numerous techniques within Solidworks including, but not
===PAGE 30===
limited to: Sketches, solid extrusions, NURBS, extruded cuts, revolves, patterns, fillets, manipulationof surfaces and advanced features.  Students will also learn to apply colors, materials and surfaces totheir designs resulting in a photo rendering of their designs.  Students will also be able to utilize the3D printer to print out 3D plastic prototypes. Projects will be relative to real life design issues andchallenge students in creative thinking, technical diligence, human factors and aesthetics. Other 3Dmodeling software applications may be explored.
Robotics (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 11-12Prerequisite: NoneUsing Vex Robotics Design System, students will design and build remote controlled robots utilizingthe engineering design process.  Students need to be inventive, self-motivated, responsible workersand be able to follow directions at a high level in order to be successful.  Students will need to be ableto work well within a project based group and benefit from hands-on learning
MusicTechnology(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: None
Studentswilllearnhowto createtheirownmusicthroughtheuseofcompositionalsoftwarecalledFlat,anda digitalaudioworkstationforrecordingandmixingknownasSoundtrap.Throughoutthesemester, studentswillexploreavarietyofcomposingtechniquesandlearnthebasicmusictheoryconceptsneededto composeoriginalmelodiesandduets,usinguniquemusicalideasandpreviouslyrecordedloops.Individualandgroupprojectssuchascreatingtheirownringtoneandcommercialjinglewillallowstudentstoutilizethesoftwareanddemonstratetheir understanding of the basic elements of music.
PERFORMING ARTS
Concert Band(UA) 1 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: none
Playing in a band is an exciting way to develop your individual musicianship and work as part of ateam to create great music.  This course provides students with a fun large ensemble experience in apositive, challenging and safe environment. Students will learn the fundamentals of instrumentalmusic performance as we explore music from a broad range of styles. Throughout the year, we willfocus on musicianship, performance skills, and knowledge of these musical styles. Consistentindividual practice on one’s instrument is required outside of class in order for students to meet theexpectations of the ensemble. Students will be assessed on their participation, attitude and effort aswell as their musical development and understanding.  Students are required to participate in all bandperformances within and outside of the school day. The band performs at several concerts during theyear, and at other school and community events, such as the Memorial Day Assembly andGraduation.
Concert Choir  (UA) 1 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: None
If you like singing and want to develop your skills, this is the class for you!  This large ensembleexperience is designed to provide singers with a rewarding, positive, and safe environment in whichbasic vocal techniques and the joy of music-making are the focus. Through the exploration of musicfrom a broad range of styles, students will work to develop their individual musicianship and
===PAGE 31===
performance skills.  Consistent practice is required outside of class in order for students to meet theexpectations of the ensemble.  Students will be assessed on their participation, attitude and effort aswell as their musical growth and understanding.  The choir performs at several concerts during theyear, and at other school and community events, such as the Memorial Day Assembly andGraduation.  Attendance at all performances is mandatory.
Basic Piano(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: No experience is necessary! Students do not need to have a piano at home.
Take advantage of the chance to learn a musical instrument during the school day and you willhave the skills for life! This basic piano course provides students with the techniques needed toplay the piano.  Throughout the semester, students will work at their own pace toward assignedbenchmarks to develop the ability to read music and apply this skill to a variety of different kindsof music. With a strong foundation, students will then have the opportunity to select their ownsong to learn as a culminating project at the end of each term.
Piano II (UA)Grades 9-12 0.5 creditPrerequisite: Basic Piano Course or instructor approval based on piano skills and the ability toread music
Students do not need to have a piano at home.Here’s a chance to improve your piano playing skills at your own pace, in a safe, fun andchallenging environment. And, hopefully learn some music that you really love!ThiscourseisintendedtopickupwhereBasicPianoleftoff andcontinuethroughsomemoreadvancedconceptsasstudentslearnhowtoplaypianomusicinavarietyofstyles.Priortothestartofthecourse,studentsmustbeabletoreadmusicfluentlyandhavepriorpianoexperienceplayingchordsandmelodieswithbothhandssimultaneously, butindependentfromoneanother.Studentswillcompletebothwrittenandperformance-basedassignmentsto demonstratetheirunderstandingofnewconcepts.StudentsinPianoIIwillalsohavetheopportunitytochooseasong that they would like to learn as a culminating project at the end of each term.
Guitar Workshop (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: No experience is necessary!  Students do not need to have a guitar at home.
Do you enjoy listening to music? Much of the popular music we listen to includes guitar. Aftertaking this course, you will have many of the skills needed to play your favorite songs. Thiscourse is designed for students who want to learn how to play the guitar and have never playedbefore. Go for it! Try something new! Emphasis in the first half of the class will be on basicchords and note reading in traditional notation. Then we will explore other types of notation, suchas tablature, so that students will be able to read any type of music they want to play in the future.Students will work individually and at their own pace to reach assigned benchmarks and developtheir skills. Throughout the semester, participants will learn melodies and chords in a variety ofstyles and work with peers to play duets. At the end of each term, students will have theopportunity to choose a song that they would like to learn as a culminating project.
JamStudio (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: None; No music experience is necessary!
Inthisexploratorycourse,studentswilllearntojaminthepopularmusicstylesthattheyknowandlove.Theywillgainexperiencelearningtoplaysimplepartsonthekeyboard,guitar, ukulele,bassanddrums.JamStudioisafun,hands-onwaytoearnyourUnifiedArtscreditasyouplaymusicwith
===PAGE 32===
yourpeersinasafe,non-judgmentalenvironment.Unliketraditionalmusicclasses,thefocushereisnotonreadingmusicalnotation.Studentswilllearnabouttheelementsofmusicthroughavarietyofmusic-makingexperiences.Thefocusofassessmentwillbeoneffort,self-awareness,collaborationand growth. Everyone can make music!
World Music (UA) 0.5 creditsGrades 9-12Prerequisite: None
Thiscoursewilltakestudentson a journeyaroundtheworldthrougha varietyofmusicalcultures.Throughoutthesemester, studentswilllearnaboutbasicmusicalconceptssuchasmelody, harmony, steadybeat,rhythmandtempo.Studentswillgainanunderstandingofhowtheseworldculturesincorporatemusicintoeverydaylifeandmajorlifeevents.Throughlistening,discussion,readingandwriting,studentswillexploremusicfromcivilizationsinAfrica,Asia,Europe,andSouthAmerica,whilelearningaboutitspeople,vocalandinstrumentalmusic and dance traditions.
Theater Arts (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneIn this course, students will study a number of literary dramas and analyze them for dramatictechniques, purposes, and functions. This course will offer students the opportunity to build theirconfidence in front of an audience through public speaking activities and acting experiences.Students will participate in several individual and collaborative projects that will give them a varietyof opportunities on stage.  During thesemester, studentswill work to develop their stage voice,volume and expression, confidence in improvisation, the basics of blocking and stage direction, linememorization, set and costume design while cultivating their creativity.  This is a hands-on, activelearning course so students will be required to share their work with their classmates as the audience,on a regular basis in this safe and supportive environment.
VISUAL ARTS
The variety of Visual Arts courses are designed to encourage students to challenge themselves innumerous areas of Art and Design.  The diverse selection allows students to experience an assortmentof art forms, materials and techniques.  Many courses are offered without prerequisites. For theserious college-track art student: enrolling in Studio Art, Advanced Studio, and Advanced PlacementArt will build a solid foundation and understanding of Art and Design.  Concurrent enrollment inother art electives will enhance visual problem solving, technical dexterity and creative projectcreation.
Advanced Placement (AP) Art & Design (UA) 1 creditGrade 12Prerequisites: Final grade average of 80 or better in Advanced Studio Art, teacher recommendation,summer work.From College Board:“[Lunenburg High School’s offering of] the AP Art and Design program consists of [two] differentcourses and AP Portfolio Exams—AP 2-D Art and Design and AP Drawing—corresponding tocollege and university foundations courses. Students may choose to submit any or all of the APPortfolio Exams.“Students create a portfolio of work to demonstrate inquiry through art and design and developmentof materials, processes, and ideas over the course of a year. Portfolios include works of art anddesign, process documentation, and written information about the work presented. In May, studentssubmit portfolios for evaluation based on specific criteria, which include skillful synthesis ofmaterials, processes, and ideas and sustained investigation through practice, experimentation, andrevision, guided by questions.”All students who are enrolled in AP Art and Design are expected to submit a portfolio to the CollegeBoard in May. Any student who does not elect to submit a portfolio will have her transcript updatedto list this course as “Advanced Studio Art II” and this transcript will be sent to prospective colleges.
===PAGE 33===
Yearbook Design (UA) 1 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: NoneStudents will integrate elements of Communication technologies including photography, graphicdesign, digital imaging and various related fields to design and produce the 2021-2022 yearbook.Students will become skilled in a range of communication and management skills necessary to meetdeadlines, gather data and design a professional book.  Work outside of class is required to completetasks, fulfill responsibilities and collect images.
Ceramic Design Studio (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneStudents will explore a variety of hand building clay techniques, inclusive of slab, hollow forms,drape molds and functional pottery. Students will also have opportunities to work on the Potter’swheel and create Slip Casted pieces.  Students will study the influence and art forms of world culturesfor creating connections and projects while integrating the elements and principles of design.Students will apply painting and glazing techniques to create detailed thought out pieces, and bechallenged in areas of creative thinking, technical diligence and personal expression. Other projectsof varying mediums and materials will be related to world cultures, past and present, to gain anappreciation of how cultural crafts play an important role to everyday life in terms of adornment,ritual and specific practice. Projects will be integrated with the Elements and Principles of Design.
Historical Art Practices(UA)(formally Art History) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: noneCreative expression is an innate human instinct and a tradition of all world cultures. In Historical ArtPractices students will spend the semester exploring a variety of artistic movements from around theworld and throughout time. This class will be split into three sections with each focusing on ahistorical time period. Section one covers Prehistoric and Historical art, Section two covers Modernand Postmodern art, and Section three explores Contemporary art. In each section students will spendone to two weeks learning about an art movement and making a small work that makes use of itsassociated subjects and materials. The goal of this class is to expose students to a wide range of artmovements, artists, and artistic materials.
Drawing & Painting(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneDrawing & Painting is a semester long class that will introduce students to the media and techniquesof observational drawing and painting.  Emphasis will be placed on still life, self-portrait, landscape,and the human figure. Students will begin with the basics of drawing including contour, gesture,foreshortening, and perspective. Students will also have an opportunity to work with paint and learnabout the many unique properties and techniques of various media.  Focus will be placed on processand the manipulation of materials to solve visual problems.
Graphic Design Basics(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneStudents will be introduced to visual principles (Elements and Principles of Design), as the basis ofgraphic design and visual communication.  This introductory course will cover how to digitallymanipulate images to convey meaning.  The use of typography coupled with interesting imagery willbe the basis for problem solving real life design issues.  This is a computer based course withopportunities to integrate other media into original solutions. The laser engraver will also be used toproduce products with custom student designs.Students who have taken Graphic Design I or II maynot sign up for this course.
Illustration(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: None
===PAGE 34===
Illustration is a semester long class that will introduce students to the exciting field of narrativeillustration.  Emphasis will be placed on concise visual storytelling, craftsmanship, and characterdevelopment. Throughout the semester students will learn about the different visual aspects,techniques, and styles that illustrators use in constructing an effective story. In each unit students willwork on creating original  designs to be used in their final project. The semester will end withstudents developing and illustrating an original story. Subjects  and concepts covered includecharacter design, setting design, action techniques, perspective, and the classic narrative arc.
Sculpture (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: noneSculpture is a semester long class in which students will explore a variety of 3D art practicesdeveloped throughout history. Students will spend the semester working independently and in groupsto learn about various technical concepts, look at historical examples, create personally expressiveprojects, and experiment with a variety of fine art subjects and materials. Each unit will focus on atraditional subject matter and the skills students need to engage with it. Students will spend the unitbuilding their skill tool set and developing artwork that engages with that unit's subject matter. Thefinal unit of the semester will give students the opportunity to use what they have learned in apersonal work of art.  Subjects covered will be the human form, monuments, perception, andabstraction. Techniques covered will include clay sculpting, model making, construction techniques,and composition.
Animation (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneAnimation is a semester-long class that will introduce students to the exciting field of hand-drawnanimation!  Emphasis will be placed on film study, imagination, acting, craftsmanship, presentation,and strong work ethic. Students will study classic animated films, shorts, and TV episodes to discoverindustry practices, styles, and techniques. Units (or Chapters) culminate with the individual andcollaborative productions of hand-drawn animated sequences, which explore movement, character,and story.  Focus will be placed on film analysis, process, acting, and solving visual problems.
Print Imagery(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 10-12Prerequisite: NoneStudents will investigate traditional printmaking techniques integrating the elements and principles ofdesign.  Students will learn how to make fine art prints using studio processes including, but notlimited to:  relief, monotype, soft cut linoleum, gelli prints and etchings.  Students will be introducedto drawing techniques, color theory, layout and design.  With an emphasis on studio production, thiscourse is designed to develop higher level thinking, design related technology, art criticism, arthistory and aesthetics.
Studio Art(UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: NoneThissemestercoursewillchallengestudentswithintroductoryprojectsin2Dand3Dartanddesign.Studentswillbe introducedto a varietyof techniquesandmediaincluding,butnotlimitedto:painting,drawing,perspectivedrawing,printmaking,andceramics.Technologyresourcesandobservationalmeanswillbeusedtoproduceimages.TheapplicationoftheElementsandPrinciplesofDesignwillbeexploredandappliedtothoughtfulcompositionsandprojects.Thiscourseisopento all students who want a challenge in creating a variety of projects.
Watercolor (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: noneWatercolor is a semester long class that will introduce students to what is arguably the most kineticand portable of all painting media.  Emphasis will be placed on still life, self-portrait, and landscape.Students will begin with experimentation and repetition of the various application methods of themedium focusing primarily on wet-on-wet and wet-on-dry painting techniques.  This course will
===PAGE 35===
serve as a threshold to understanding structural form, lighting and colorutilization through both indoor and outdoor observational studies.  Focus will be placed on processand the manipulation of materials to solve visual problems.
Choice Based Art (UA) 0.5 creditGrades 9-12Prerequisite: none
Choice Based Art will be utilized in a TAB (Teaching for Artistic Behaviors) classroom as a methodof teaching for artistic behaviors like planning, problem-solving and generating ideas. Students willbe introduced to numerous materials and techniques in 2D and 3D art and design inclusive ofdrawing, ceramics, printmaking, painting and others,  and be able to create their own artisticcompositions based on a theme coupled with  their own expression, interpretation and innovation. Itinvolves the Studio Habits of Mind:Develop Craft:Learningto use tools, materials, and artisticconventions .Studio Practice: Taking care of tools,materials, works, and space.Engage & Persist:Finding personally meaningful projects and sticking to them .Envision: Imagining new artworks andsteps to bring them to life.Express: Making worksthat convey personal meaning and interpretingmeaning in the works of others. This class is designed for individuals who want to challengethemselves in a variety of materials and techniques, generation of original ideas and personalexpression.
Honors (H) Art & Design (UA) 1 credit
Grades 11-12
Prerequisites:  Drawing & Painting, Teacher recommendation, summer work
HonorsArt&Designisayear-longhonorslevelclassthatwillexpandonstudents’abilitiestoutilizevariousmediato createmeaningful,well-composed,highqualityworksofart. Emphasiswillbeplacedon arthistory, stilllife,portraiture,andproducingconcept-drivenworkthatis richwithsymbolismandpurpose.Studentswillbeginwithwrittenanddrawnstudyofworksinarthistorythatwillserveasa launchpadforthecreationoforiginalworksandthedevelopmentofuniquevisualvoices.Mediaforfinalassignmentswillvaryfromassignmenttoassignment,sometimesbeingopenendedbutothertimesbeingrestrictedtocharcoal,watercolor, orwater-basedoilpaint.Focuswillbeplacedonprocessandthemanipulationofmaterialstosolvevisualproblems.HonorsArt&Designruns concurrently with AP Art & Design.
INTERVENTION
Grade 9-12: Recommendation from LHS Staff 0.5 Credits
This course is designed to provide high quality instruction and intervention support to students with avariety of academic needs.  The focus of the course is individual to each student and focuses onstrengthening or developing skills and habits that are required to be a successful student. The classwill focus on assignment completion, tracking missing assignments, organization, personalmanagement, effective study habits, effective communication and executive functioning skills.Interventionist will work closely with parents, teachers, and other support staff to best meet theacademic and social needs of the individual student, and regularly monitor progress . Students need tobe recommended for the program through the Student Support Team.
SPECIAL SERVICES
Some students require courses that are not available through the regular curriculum. Alternatecourses, taught by special education teachers, are arranged when called for in a student's individualeducation program
Study Skills 1 credit
===PAGE 36===
Grades 9-12Study Skills is designed to provide support for students with a variety of learning disabilities andeducational needs. Students are provided support in accessing the regular education curriculum, andare encouraged towards making effective progress in the general education classroom.  Study Skills isa full credit course that is open only to students who possess an Individual Education Plan with theappropriate recommendation.  The class meets every day and is supported by Special Service staffmembers who can assist students with problematic areas and provide direct academic instruction. TheStudy Skills course focuses on organizational strategies, personal management, effectivecommunication, effective study habits, and homework completion.  Special Service staff membersassist students in overcoming obstacles that are encountered when completing their work, whether itis written work, compositions, or studying for an upcoming assessment.  Another facet of the StudySkills course is that students learn to take full responsibility for their behavior and learning.
Reading 1 creditGrades 9-12Reading classes at the high school level vary based on the student's individual needs and goals thathave been written in IEP’s.  Various methodologies may be used to address the reading needs.
MASST-R 1 creditGrades 9-12The Metacognitive Approach to Social Skills Training-Revised (MASST-R) is a social skills trainingprogram, not a discipline program. The program is designed to teach students the skills needed to takecontrol of their own behavior and to make decisions about their behavior based on their own bestinterests. The student is the focus of the program and is guided to the achievement of positivebehaviors through skill acquisition, reflective thinking, extended practice in a variety of settings, andaffirmation based on positive feedback from behavioral change using the metacognitive approach.Metacognition is defined as: thinking about thinking or knowing how you know.  The leader of theprogram acts as a facilitator who does not seek to control the direction of the discussion or to providethe central model for correct social behavior.  Their role is to facilitate discovery of self and of skillsand the building of additional social skills through cognitive and metacognitive questioning.  Thissimply means that the direction of the lesson is in the control of the students.Students specifically learn toself-monitorin orderto determine what their current behaviors and theconsequences of those behaviors are, toself-directin order to choose behaviors consciously that arenecessary to gain desired rewards, toself-evaluatein order to determine whether those behaviorshave been effective in their unique environment, and toself-correctin order to improve the outcomesof their behaviors for themselves in their unique environment.Overall, this program allows students to get to know themselves and how they act/react in certainsituations and to take control and ownership of their behaviors.
Achieve  IVThe Achieve IV Program addresses the needs of students with significant disabilities asspecified in the IEP. The foundation for each student’s educational program is a functional life skillscurriculum with the addition of both CORE and modified CORE Curricula designed to meetindividual academic needs of each student. Receiving services primarily within self-containedclassrooms with the addition of supported inclusion opportunities and community learningopportunities to the maximum extent possible, Achieve IV provides strongly supported learningenvironments with high student: teacher ratios.Math- The Achieve math curriculum delivers math skills pertaining to activities of daily living.Topics include basic computations with each operation, understanding money values, budgeting,identifying units of measure, and time management.English-  The Achieve English curriculum offers students a Language Arts class focused onthe reading and writing needed for independent living, effective communication, completingfunctional tasks, and accessing news and schedule documents.Social Skills- The Achieve social skills class encourages the development of healthycommunication and relationships between students and their friends, future bosses, family members,and coworkers. In focusing on reading body language, understanding tone, expressing ones feelings,and in mapping appropriate social situations, students will are afforded independence both in theirsocial and professional lives.
===PAGE 37===
History- The Achieve History curriculum focuses on US and World History topics onalternating years. Each topic has high interest and low reading level material. Topics include: voting,trade, recycling, energy sources, agriculture, and terrorism.
Therapeutic Learning Center (TLC/Transitions)Grades 9-12The Transitions Program is designed to support at “risk students,” who are struggling academicallyand/or socially/emotionally. Transitions also supports the reintegration of students who have beenabsent from school and/or hospitalized due to social/emotional or medically related issues.  Anystudent can receive support from the Transitions Program, but must be referred and meet specificadmission criteria. The program is staffed by a Special Education Teacher and a Clinical SocialWorker to offer both academic and counseling support to meet the individualized needs of eachstudent.  Students are provided assistance in accessing regular education curriculum and aresupported towards making effective academic progress and increasing emotional stability.
ELA SKILLS SUPPORT .5 credit(elective)Grade 9-12: Recommendation from LHS staffThis course is designed to provide support for students who struggle with a variety of skills thatwould inhibit their ability to fully access and engage with their inclusion ELA curriculum. The focusof the class is individual to the students and their current areas of growth which could include, but arenot limited to; vocabulary acquisition, reading comprehension, organization of writing, andcomprehension of the components within formal writing. This class is based on a Tier II interventionmodel and provides support to students who require more support in addition to their core curriculumthrough a systematic, data driven, and purposeful process. Response to Intervention (RtI) is thepractice of providing high quality instruction and interventions matched to student need, monitoringprogress frequently to make decisions about changes in instruction or goals and applyingstudent-outcome data to important educational decisions. RtI should be applied to decisions ingeneral, remedial and special education, creating a well-integrated system of instruction/intervention,guided by student outcome data. (NASDSE, 2008).
MATH SKILL SUPPORT .5 credit (elective)Grades 9-12: Recommendation from LHS Staffis designed to provide support for students who struggle with a variety of skills that would inhibittheir ability to fully access and engage with their inclusion math curriculum. The focus of the class isindividual to the students and their current areas of growth which could include, but are not limitedto; math fact fluency, fractions, decimals, percents, and pre-algebra skills. This class is based on aTier II intervention model and provides support to students who require more support in addition totheir core curriculum through a systematic, data driven, and purposeful process. Response toIntervention (RtI) is the practice of providing high quality instruction and interventions matched tostudent need, monitoring progress frequently to make decisions about changes in instruction or goalsand applying student-outcome data to important educational decisions. RtI should be applied todecisions in general, remedialand special education, creating a well-integrated system of instruction/intervention,guided by student outcome data. (NASDSE, 2008).
BRIDGESGrades 9-12This program is designed to add extra support for those students who are currently not on a traditionaldiploma track.  The program is designed to include a combination of inclusion classes andsub-separate  small group classes, individualizing the academic programing of each student.  Studentsin this program will engage in a four/five year graduation track adding extra support which willinclude supported study halls and small group staffing ratios. The instruction can be delivered at aslower pace with modifications in place to meet the individual student needs while maintaining theintegrity of the state standards.  The goal of this program is to offer students a chance to graduate witha diploma on their terms within the guidelines set forth by the state.
===PAGE 38===
OUTSIDE COURSE PERMISSION FORM
Student Name: __________________________________________    Date: ________________
Course Name: ____________________________________   ** Please attach course description
Location of Course: _________________________________Dates of course: __________
To the student:  In the space below, please explain why you are looking to take this course, andprovide any additional information that you feel should be taken into consideration.
All courses taken outside of LHS must be approved in advance by the student’s School Counselor, theappropriate Department Head, and the LHS Principal.  All costs for outside courses are theresponsibility of the student.  A student may not take an outside course simultaneously with, or inreplacement of, the same course at LHS.  It is the policy of LHS not to include courses taken outsideof  LHS on the student transcript.  These courses are not included in the calculation of GPA.
________________________________________________________________________Student Parent
________________________________________________________________________Department Head School Counselor
_____________________________________Principal
===PAGE 39===
DUAL ENROLLMENT CONTRACT
Student: _____________________________________ YOG: __________
Date of meeting with School Counselor: ____________
College planning to attend:    MWCC          FSU
____ Graduation Progress Worksheet completed and attached.
I plan to enroll in the following classes for (circle one)  Fall / Spring  Year __________
Dual Enrollment Student Expectations1. Students involved with Dual Enrollment are required to meet with a school counselor toreview and sign their Dual Enrollment Contract prior to enrolling in courses.
2. Dual Enrollment students must enroll in a minimum of 12 credits per semester.
3. All courses must be pre-approved by the LHS School Counseling Office before eachsemester begins. If a student enrolls in courses without approval of the LHS SchoolCounseling Office, we cannot guarantee that a student is on track for graduation.
4. Eligibility for Lunenburg High School athletics and extracurricular activities will bedetermined when a student's grades are reported to the registrar.
5. To maintain eligibility at Lunenburg High School for athletics and extracurricularactivities, students must stay enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits each semester and passall four courses with a 2.0 or higher.
6. Once accepted as a Dual Enrollment student, there is no guarantee that the college canprovide the courses that a student needs to meet LHS graduation requirements. Shouldthis situation arise, it will be necessary for a student to return to LHS to complete one ormore courses.
7. Courses taken through the Dual Enrollment program are included on the LHS transcript,yet not included in the calculation of  GPA.
8. Dual Enrollment students need to request that their official college transcript be sent tothe LHS registrar and any colleges or universities that they have applied to, at theconclusion of each semester.
9. The cost for Dual Enrollment courses are the responsibility of the student/family.  Inaddition to the cost per course, students are also responsible for the cost oftransportation, textbooks, and any other instructional materials or course fees as required
===PAGE 40===
by the instructor.
10. At any time a Dual Enrollment student withdraws from a Dual Enrollment course and/orprogram theymustnotify their school counselor priorto withdrawal.
11. Dual Enrollment students withdrawing from a Dual Enrollment program during asemester must provide their school registrar with an official grade report from thecollege. This grade report must reflect their grade/average at the time of withdrawal.Failure to do so will impact credits needed to meet graduation requirements and maypotentially impact students' date of graduation.
I have read and understand:
_____ the Dual Enrollment expectations
_____ the courses required to pass to be eligible for LHS graduation
_________________________________________________________________
Student Signature                                                                                         Date
_________________________________________________________________
Parent Signature Date
_________________________________________________________________
School Counselor Signature Date
_________________________________________________________________
Administrator Signature Date