===PAGE 1===
Opening Day ay LMHS 8-30-2022 
 
We enjoyed a wonderful opening day at LMHS with 381 students attending the 
middle school and 448 attending the high school for a total of 829 students 
attending the middle high school.  
The largest class size at the middle school is 26. Students reported to their 
homerooms and participated in grade level meetings with Mr. Santry and Mr. 
McGrath. Lunches ran smoothly without issue and students were excited to see 
the classmates and their teachers.  
The largest class size at the high school is 28.  Students reported to their advisory 
teachers as they were provided their classroom schedules last May.  High school 
students had the opportunity to meet with guidance staff if they experienced any 
conflicts in their schedules. Students will have an all school assembly with high 
school administration tomorrow to review student expectations and to answer 
any questions. The buildings ran smoothly 
 
Buses arrived on time and departed on time, parent pick up and drop off lines 
were manageable and experienced little difficulty. 
Overall a great first day of school.  
New hires LMS: 
Grade 8 Math Teacher: Nicole Rooney 
Achieve Teacher: Jaime Moore 
LMS Guidance Counselor: Katherine Antaya 
Paraprofessionals: 
Tricia Sicard 
Chris Catalini  
Ms. Antaya was the former grade 7 Math Teacher. We have posted for that 
position and will be interviewing candidates this week.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
New Hires LHS:  
Assistant Principal:  Karma Tousignant 
Athletic Director: Kevin Bigelow 
Intervention Teacher: Meghan Arnold * New 
Art Teacher: Scott Barry 
Achieve Teacher: Samantha Collyer * Long Term Substitute 
School Social Worker: Stacey Canfield 
Paraprofessionals 
Sophia Namatovu ACE Program 
Coral Cora 
Daniel Braunn 
Allison Cortez 
Sheila Hutchinson 
Bessie Grippo 
Carolyn Wilson 
Michelle Toomey 
The paraprofessional positions were to fill three positions that went unfilled last 
school year, 4 resignations and 1 retirement. The Achieve Teacher position will 
remain posted until the position is filled.  
 
 