===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
EXPENDITURES 3400 
 
PAYMENT PROCEDURES 3402 
 
All claims for payment from school department funds will be processed in accordance 
with procedures developed by the Town Accountant. Payment will be authorized against 
invoices properly supported by approved purchase orders, with properly submitted 
vouchers, or in accordance with salaries and salary schedules approved by the School 
Committee. 
 
The signatures of at least three one School Committee member will be required to 
authorize warrants for payment. 
 
When a potential conflict of interest exists, the School Committee member will abstain 
from signing warrants. 
 
The Superintendent will sign warrants before their presentation to the Committee assuring 
that the budget allocations are observed and that total expenditures do not exceed the amount 
allocated in the budget for all items. 
  
The Committee shall receive monthly lists of bills (warrants) for payment from school 
department funds. The Committee shall designate by vote a single member to be responsible for 
the review and approval of the warrants as correct and approved for payment. Warrants then 
will be forwarded to the Town Accounting Department for processing and subsequent 
payment by the municipal treasurer. A record of this action shall be made available to the 
Committee on the agenda of the next regular meeting. 
 
Actual invoices, statements, and vouchers will be available for inspection by the School 
Committee upon request. 
 
Legal Refs.: M.G.L. Ch. 41, Sec. 35;41;52 
 
MASC: 
All claims for payment from school department funds will be processed in accordance with 
procedures developed by the Superintendent. Payment will be authorized against invoices 
properly supported by approved purchase orders, with properly submitted voucher s, or in 
accordance with salaries and salary schedules approved by the School Committee.  
 
The Superintendent will be responsible for assuring that the budget allocations are observed and 
that total expenditures do not exceed the amount allocated in the bud get for all items. 
 
The Committee will receive monthly lists of bills (warrants) for payment from school 
department funds. The Committee will designate by vote a single member to be responsible for 
the review and approval of the warrants as correct and app roved for payment. Warrants then 
will be forwarded to the municipal auditor for processing and subsequent payment by the 
municipal treasurer. A record of this action will be made available to the Committee on the 
agenda of the next regular meeting.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Actual invoices, statements, and vouchers will be available for inspection by the School 
Committee upon request.  
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 41:41; 41:52; 41:56 
CROSS REF: DGA, Authorized Signatures 
 
NOTE: Specific details established by an individual town should be substituted for those 
required in the policy above, which were established by that city's code of ordinances. 
Appropriate citations should also be substituted. The above language implements a single 
signatory of district warrants. It should be altered according to district practice. 
 
 
Adopted Lunenburg School Committee April 26, 2001 
Reviewed September 23, 2009 
Revised & Approved 1-22-20 
 
 
 