===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
  
 
 
2022-2023 
ANNUAL REPORT 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keystone Educational Collaborative 
2 Shaker Road, Suite D215 
Shirley, MA 01464 
 
www.keystonecollaborative.org 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 2 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUR MISSION 
 
The mission of Keystone Educational 
Collaborative is to unite our 
communities together to strengthen 
each individual students’ growth for 
the future. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUR VISION 
The focus of Keystone Educational Collaborative 
is to lock-in the foundation of our students’ 
future with the tools of today by developing and 
providing high quality, cost effective, 
educationally related programs for special needs 
students, professional development and other 
services that strengthen and enhance the 
educational offerings of our member districts.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 4 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
OUR PRINCIPLES 
− We believe our programs and services should be of the highest quality and should 
continue to be responsive to the changing needs of our member districts. 
− We believe that our students should be provided with the highest level of quality 
programs and services that will allow each of them opportunities to reach their 
highest potential and demonstrate ongoing, measurable progress and 
independence. 
− We believe that all students should be challenged to learn in a caring, inclusive 
environment that respects diversity and values life-long learning.  
− We believe all students should be provided educational programs and services in 
the least restrictive environment and we work closely with each district to return 
students to their home district whenever it is appropriate. 
− We believe high quality; ongoing and relevant professional development is 
essential for growth and the success of the educational process. 
− We recognize the need to involve and support families to facilitate the educational 
process. 
− We believe student assessment and program evaluation are essential for 
continuous improvement. 
− We recognize the need to support the social and emotional well -being of our 
students. 
− We embrace collegiality and a sense of shared commitment and recognize that 
we accomplish more collectively than separately. 
− We recognize and celebrate the unique contributions and accomplishments of 
everyone in our collaborative community. 
− We encourage and accept a diversity of opinions to stimulate innovative and 
creative ideas and effective solutions. 
 5 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 6===
 
 
“It’s your reaction to adversity, not adversity itself 
that determines how your life’s story will develop.” 
 -Dieter F. Uchtdorf-  
Dear Friends and Families, 
Keystone Educational Collaborative has always been synonymous with a commitment to 
providing exceptional specialized programs that support our students' evolving therapeutic 
and educational needs. Throughout the years, we have been fortunate to have the unwavering 
support of our twelve member districts, our dedicated families, and our communities, all of 
whom have joined hands in fostering a continuous learning journey for our students. While our 
commitment to quality programming remains steadfast, we understand the importance of 
adapting to the ever-changing landscape to ensure a bright educational future for our 
students. 
As representatives of the educational community in your respective areas, we have 
consistently strived to nurture each child's unique abilities and inspire them to reach their 
fullest potential. Our mission for the future is firmly rooted in keeping your children's growth 
and development at the forefront. As an organization, we recognize that self-reflection is key 
to progress, and we have taken deliberate steps to align our efforts with our vision for the 
future. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has illuminated the critical roles played by the entire educational 
community and underscored the resilience we all possess when it comes to securing our 
students' futures. We acknowledge the undeniable challenges of the past year, which have 
impacted our students, families, members, and staff. However, the Keystone community has 
demonstrated remarkable resilience in continuing to serve and challenge our most vulnerable 
students. With our primary mission ever more vital, we are committed to carrying forward the 
torch and developing the necessary therapeutic and educational tools for the future, starting 
today. 
As a member of this dedicated team within the organization, I eagerly anticipate guiding 
Keystone into the future, unlocking your child's untapped potential along the way. 
I hope that this year's annual report serves as a testament to the fabric of our organization and 
the excellence of our collaborative programming. It also provides insights into the directions 
we are charting for the future. None of these endeavors would have been possible without the 
steadfast support and dedication of our families, friends, member districts, communities, and 
our passionate staff, all integral parts of the Keystone Educational Community. 
As we continue on the long journey out of the challenges posed by COVID-19, we remain 
committed to ensuring the best possible educational experience for our students and 
strengthening our bonds within the educational community. Together, we will navigate these 
uncharted waters and emerge stronger, more resilient, and more dedicated than ever to the 
success of our exceptional students. 
Thank you for your continued support and unwavering commitment to our shared mission. 
 
Sincerely, 
John J. Demanche,  
M. Ed, BCBA, LABA 
Executive Director 
 6 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 7===
 
 
 
 
 
 
School Committee Member 
 Ellen Holmes 
Ashburnham-Westminster 
Regional School District 
 
  
Superintendent Dr. Adam Renda 
Ayer-Shirley Regional  
School District 
 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Steven Meyer 
Clinton Public School 
 
  
 
Superintendent Dr. Robert Jokela 
Fitchburg School District 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Mark Pellegrino 
Gardner Public Schools 
 
 
Superintendent Paula Deacon 
Leominster Public Schools 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. C. Casavant 
Narragansett Regional School 
District 
 
 
Superintendent Brad Morgan 
North Middlesex Regional School 
District 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Sheila Muir 
Quabbin Regional School District 
 
 
Superintendent Richard Meagher 
West Boylston Public Schools 
 
 
 
Superintendent Thad King 
Winchendon Public Schools 
 
KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLBORATIVE  
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS 
 
 7 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 8===
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
Ashburnham-Westminster RSD Ms. Justine Muir 
Ayer Shirley RSD Ms. Tara Bozek 
 
Clinton Public Schools Ms. Loretta Braverman 
Fitchburg Public Schools Ms. Alicia Berrospe 
Gardner Public Schools Ms. Joyce West 
Leominster Public Schools Ms. Laura VanDorn 
Lunenburg Public Schools Ms. Julianna Hanscom 
Narragansett RSD Mr. Matt Holloway 
North Middlesex RSD Mr. Brad Brooks 
Quabbin RSD Ms. Kristin Campione 
West Boylston Public Schools Ms. Sherri Traina 
Winchendon Public Schools Ms. Nicole Heroux 
 
Keystone Educational Collaborative 
 Special Education Advisory Board 
 8 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 9===
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Budget 
Superintendent Mr. Thad King  
Superintendent Dr. Steven Meyer 
Superintendent Dr. Mark Pellegrino 
Personnel 
Superintendent Dr. Sheila Muir  
Superintendent Dr. Mark Pellegrino 
Governance 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
Superintendent Mr. Robert Jokela   
Space 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
School Committee Member, Ms. Ellen Holmes 
Superintendent Mr. Robert Jokela   
Warrant Committee 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
School Committee Member, Ms. Ellen Holmes 
Superintendent Mr. Thad King  
Keystone Educational Collaborative  
 Executive Board Sub-Committees 
 9 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 10===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Executive Director Mr. John J Demanche 
Business Manager Ms. Terri Burchfield 
KEY Program Administrator Ms. Megan Ritter 
KEY Program Administrator Ms. Amy Foley 
Keystone Elementary/Middle 
School Program Administrator 
Ms. Julie Bragg 
Keystone Academy Program 
Administrator 
Mr. Gary MacCallum 
Keystone Education 
 Administration 
  
  10 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 11===
 
 
FINANCIAL AND ENROLLMENT DATA 
97% of the Collaborative’s revenue comes from the student programs described 
elsewhere and the contract service staff we provide to our districts.  The graphical 
display represents the organization percentage breakdown of the primary revenue 
sources. The Collaborative provides group purchasing opportunities that make up the 
remaining revenue stream, but the nature of such transactions is considered revenue 
neutral, meaning expenses are covered, but no additional income is derived so is not 
considered when m easuring the results of operations. The Collaborative saw a 7% 
increase over the previous year, which was short of projections.  
 
  
Revenue Breakdown 2022-2023
Tuition Purchased and Contract Services Extended Year
 
 11 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
  
Primary Revenues 
  
 
2021-2022 
  
Primary Revenues 
  
2022-2023 
 
  
Tuition 
  
 $9,041,377 
 Tuition 
  
 $9,375,532 
  
 
Purchased & 
Contract 
Services 
   
 $701,708 
  
Purchased & 
Contract 
Services 
  
$1,101,828 
  
Extended 
Year 
   
 $459,040 
  
Extended 
Year 
   
 $458,629 
  
TOTAL 
  
 $10,202,125 
  
 TOTAL 
  
 $10,935,989 
  
===PAGE 12===
 
 
EXPENSES 
The Collaborative was short 9% on revenue projections or about $1,100,000. Much of this 
was related to being unable to maintain the full complement of staff needed to support 
the additional students projected and being referred. The expenses related to personnel 
costs were reduced by over $900,000. Expenses related to the new building were over 
projections, but total savings over budgeted expenses were about $760,000 resulting in 
an overall loss to the Collaborative of about $340,000. 88% of all expenses were related 
to personnel costs. 
 
 
OPERATIONAL OCCUPANCY 
The Collaborative has spent a lot of time and resources ensuring the building 
purchased in Fitchburg provides the best setting possible for our students. As we look 
ahead to the potential to lose more classroom space to districts addressing their own 
space needs, we end the year in the process of obtaining a second physical site and 
preparing that building for student use. While this creates some challenges at short 
term budgeting, the long-term benefits are considerable. The Collaborative finds space 
a challenge when addressing referrals, and given the projected enrollments, believe 
both capital projects will only enhance our ability to meet the needs of students in our 
area. We are looking at reducing rental expense from $546,000 to below $300,000 and 
using the remaining funds to support the capital purchase and renovation costs. 
Currently, the Collaborative has students in Ayer, Shirley, Fitchburg, Leominster and 
Townsend. 
Payroll and benefits
payroll benefits
 12 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 13===
 
 
STAFFING INFRASTRUCTURE 
The collaborative remains steadfast in recognizing that the essence of the program lies 
in the caliber of our staff and their influence on our students. To this end, the 
collaborative consistently assigns organizational roles that directly impact student 
outcomes. As indicated in the graphical representation below, an impressive 93% of our 
staff positions involve daily, direct interaction with the student population we serve, with 
the remaining staffing percentage focused on providing crucial ancillary services. It's 
worth noting that this figure includes the reclassification of ten paraprofessional 
positions to highly trained Registered Behavior Technicians, thereby enhancing the 
classroom support that is in high demand. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative/Support staff 7% 11 
Psychologist/BCBAs/Counselors 7% 11 
Teachers 24% 36 
Paraprofessionals 43% 65 
Allied Health (PT, OT, SLP) 19% 29 
  152 
 13 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 14===
 
 
STAFFING TENURE 
The collaborative's deliberate investment in our students, particularly in the form of 
human capital, has not only shown a correlation with positive student outcomes but 
has also run parallel to employee tenure. According to the graphical representation, 
approximately 32% of our employees have demonstrated their commitment by 
dedicating over five years of service to upholding the mission and philosophy of our 
program. 
 
     
  
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee Tenure   
< 1 year 34% 52 
1-5 years 32% 49 
5-10 years 9% 14 
10-20 years 14% 21 
20+ years 11% 16 
  152 
 14 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 15===
 
 
EFFECTIVENESS OF PROGRAMS AND 
SERVICES 
The collaborative maintains its well -earned reputation for delivering high -quality and 
cost-effective programs and services to our member districts. As part of our 
commitment to transparency and alignment with our mission, we provide an annual cost 
comparison survey to our Board of Directors. This survey serves to demonstrate that 
we remain on course with our mission. 
Additionally, the collaborative conducts an annual satisfaction survey among our Special 
Education Administrators to ensure that our vision of cost -effectiveness is 
harmoniously balanced with our mission of providing quality programming. This annual 
survey gathers feedback from our members to gauge their satisfaction with our 
programs and to assess how effectively the collaborative has been in meeting the needs 
of our districts and families. 
 
COST COMPARISON 
The special education programs offered by the collaborative continue to demonstrate 
exceptional cost-effectiveness when compared to private special education programs 
catering to students with similar special educational needs. Annually, the collaborative 
conducts a comprehensive cost analysis, comparing our programs with similar private 
special educ ation options located within a one -hour radius of north -central 
Massachusetts (where possible). 
Before making these comparisons, the collaborative collaborates with the Special 
Education Advisory Board to ensure that the comparisons are equitable and accurately 
reflect private schools that districts might have considered if our collaborative 
programs were not available. The following graphical representation provides a 
breakdown of the daily and annual rates for each of the programs within our 
organization. The selection of comparison programs is based on factors such as a 
similar student population, educational and therapeutic methodologies, and historical 
comparisons. 
The final graphical display illustrates the overall cost benefits that both our member and 
non-member districts enjoy when they refer students to the collaborative.   
 15 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 16===
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $515.93 per 
day. Keystone Educational Collaborative supplies an annual savings of $26,653. 
 
Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $92,878.00 
per annual year (180). 
 
 
 
KEY PROGRAM 
 
Cost Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 17===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $359.26 per 
day. Keystone Educational Collaborative supplies a savings of $3,172. 
 
 
 
 
KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL ELEMENTARY 
MIDDLE SCHOOL PROGRAM 
Cost Analysis 
 
 17 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 18===
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $361.67 
per day. Keystone Educational Collaborative supplies an annual savings of $4641.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEYSTONE ACADEMY PROGRAM  
Cost Analysis 
 18 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 19===
 
 
   
 
 
MEMBER DISTRICTS 
One of the core missions of the collaborative is to provide our member districts with 
programs that enhance and reinforce their own educational offerings, specifically 
tailored to address the intensive therapeutic and educational requirements of students 
with disabilities. The visual representation below illustrates how all twelve of our 
member districts have effectively integrated our highly specialized programs into their 
educational landscape. This data serves as evidence that our current specialized 
program design aligns seamlessly with the requirements and aspirations of our member 
districts, thereby enhancing their educational offerings.  
  
 
 
 
 $-
 $500,000
 $1,000,000
 $1,500,000
 $2,000,000
 $2,500,000
 $3,000,000
Member district revenue
Total Income  Tuition Income
 19 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
FINANCIAL AND ENROLLMENT 
INFORMATION 
===PAGE 20===
 
 
NON-MEMBER DISTRICTS 
Our specialized programming is meticulously designed to cater to the intensive 
therapeutic and educational requirements of students with disabilities, and it has 
remained a central focus for both our member districts and the collaborative as a 
whole. While our members play a significant role within our organization, as a 
collaborative, we steadfastly endeavor to create the least restrictive environment for 
all students with specialized needs. The previous visual representation illustrates that 
a remarkable 81% of our educational and therapeutic programs have been specifically 
designated to serve our member districts and their respective communities. 
Irrespective of town boundaries, the needs of our students have consistently been the 
focal point of this collaborative's mission. Therefore, we, as a collaborative, are 
unwavering in our commitment to supporting students and families from neighboring 
non-member districts. In the past year, the collaborative has been able to provide 
assistance to nearly a quarter of our population comprising non-members and out-of-
state students, with the goal of enabling these students to remain closer to their own 
communities. 
  
 
 
 20 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 21===
 
 
PROGRAM BREAKDOWN 
Our specialized programming is crafted in response to the specific needs of our 
member districts, offering support for students with a diverse array of disabilities. The 
visual representation below provides an overview of the distribution of disabilities that 
we have accommodated within our programs and the corresponding distribution of 
students in those programs that we have identified. 
Moving forward, the collaborative remains committed to ongoing analysis and support 
for our member districts in discerning the most suitable disability categories, with the 
aim of better identifying and addressing future programmatic needs. 
 
PROGRAM ANALYSIS 
The breakdown of our program offerings and the accompanying graphical display of 
the average student census provide essential insights into the diverse range of 
educational services we provide and the extent to which they meet the needs of our 
student population. These visual representations enable us to tailor our programs 
effectively, ensuring they align with best practices and cater to the unique 
requirements of our students. Additionally, they help us track and analyze the average 
student enrollment within each designated program, guiding our efforts to 
continuously enhance the quality and accessibility of our educational services. 
 
 21 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 22===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“The future influences the present just as much as the 
past.” 
 
 
 
 
 
~Friedrich Nietzsche~ 
 
 
 
 22 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 23===
 
 
 
 
KEY PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEYSTONE ACADEMY PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tuition 
Member $ 3,745,815.00 
Non-Member $ 1,133,389.22 
Total Tuition $ 4,879,204.22 
Budgeted Tuition $5,247,647.00 
Difference - $368,442.78 
Tuition 
Member $ 1,323,981.99 
Non-Member $ 565,840.80 
Total Tuition $ 1,889,822.79 
Budgeted Tuition $ 2,478,070.00 
Difference -$588,247.21 
REVENUE BREAKDOWN 
 23 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 24===
 
 
KEYSTONE ELEMENTARY MIDDLE 
SCHOOL PROGRAM 
 
 
 
EXTENDED EVALUATION 
 
 
 
Tuition 
Member $ 1,831,529.48 
Non-Member $ 774,975.22 
Total Tuition $ 2,606,504.70 
Budgeted Tuition $ 2,942,093.00 
Difference -$335,588.30 
Tuition 
Member $ 178,330.00 
Non-Member $ 85,570.00 
Total Tuition $ 263,900.00 
 24 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 25===
 
 
TUITION REVENUE 
 
 
The variance between the budgeted and actual tuition revenue is attributed to both staff 
and space availability for those programs where some student referrals could not be 
accommodated. Several key licensed positions were affected by leaves and vacancies 
which are no longer issues. To address space concerns, the Collaborative continues to 
purchase and develop program sites. 
 
 
Member District Program Use
Total Tuition 
Member $ 6,901,326.47 
Non-Member $ 2,474,205.24 
Total $ 9,375,531.71 
Budgeted Tuition $ 10,667,810.00 
Difference -$1, 292,278.29 
 25 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 26===
 
 
FINANCIAL POSITION 
The net effect of all the revenues and savings in expenditures is a loss of $340,504. As 
stated elsewhere, tuition and service revenues were below projections by about 
$1,100,000 due to space and staffing issues. Savings were recognized through salaries 
and benefit costs for positions that were not filled. Because of the inability to hire staff 
with the appropriate licenses, the Collaborative was unable to accommodate all student 
referrals. Again, this is not anticipated to be an issue in the new year.   
As the enrollments have been increasing, the Collaborative has been aggressively 
pursuing more permanent options for classroom space.  The Collaborative has spent 
some of the Capital Reserve Fund renovating our building in Fitchburg and are 
anticipating th e purchase of a second building for programming when the new year 
begins. Additionally, the Collaborative has taken steps to obtain a mortgage and 
renovation loan to prepare the new building for students. Plans are for that building to 
be operational in the 2024-2025 school year. 
At the end of June 2023, the Collaborative funds were: 
Capital Reserve             $ 662,355 
Capital Assets   $ 1,379,017 
Unrestricted                                   $2,513,950 
Total net position                            $3,376,225 
 
 
 26 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 27===
 
 
SPECIAL EDUCATION ADMINISTRATOR 
SURVEY RESULTS 
 
In our ongoing commitment to provide high-quality services and programs, the 
collaborative conducts an annual satisfaction survey among our member district 
Special Education Administrators every September. The reference tool has been 
expanded from previous surveys to ensure accuracy in measuring satisfaction not only 
from direct service providers but also in terms of administrative support provided by 
the collaborative to its members. Since collaboration is a cornerstone of our work, 
feedback from Special Education Administrators is invaluable in gauging our overall 
effectiveness as an organization. 
Out of the twelve Special Education Administrators in our member districts, five were 
able to respond to the survey, and the results are outlined below. We acknowledge that 
the current environment, with its focus on school reopening plans, has made it 
challenging for some of our members to respond promptly, and their feedback will be 
accommodated in an alternative format. 
Before delving into the survey findings, the collaborative would like to address the 
recommendations provided in last year's survey. 
 Recommendations:  
• Psychologists hire to share with the districts 
• More vocational options at HS level. 
 
The collaborative fully embraced the comprehensive program recommendation and 
recognized the imperative for member districts. As a result, the collaborative 
undertook various initiatives during the 2022-2023 school year. Although the pandemic 
posed some limitations, the collaborative provided valuable support to districts by 
conducting evaluations of special educational services and reviewing multi-tiered 
support protocols. Leveraging the evaluation outcomes, the collaborative continued to 
offer training and support for multi-tiered support and best practice protocols for 
students with special education needs and programs. 
Regarding the suggestion to expand vocational opportunities within the collaborative, 
we made significant strides. We welcomed an additional wood shop teacher, a 
Rehabilitation Counselor, and a Transition Specialist to bring their vocational expertise 
and assessment knowledge to our team. This enhancement enables us to better guide 
students toward future vocational opportunities. Currently, approximately 75% of 
working-age students are engaged in activities beyond regular school hours, including 
27 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 28===
 
 
volunteer work, job sampling, and other vocational opportunities that expose them to 
future career prospects. 
Furthermore, the collaborative joined the Autism Higher Education Foundation and 
initiated the PLAT program (Paralegal Assistant Training Program). We are actively 
supporting the Fitchburg Court House and will soon extend our services to the 
Ayer/Shirley Court House, providing students with opportunities within the court 
system. We have one student already enrolled in the program, and we are exploring 
options to include students with varying disability demographics. 
Regrettably, we have encountered challenges in meeting the demand for specialized 
services such as school psychologists. This predicament is exacerbated by a 
longstanding shortage of qualified candidates, which has been further compounded by 
the ongoing pandemic. Throughout the school year, we managed to assist some of our 
members in cases where the collaborative's school psychologist provided support in 
the evaluation and analysis of data collected by the district teams. 
                         
 
28 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 29===
 
 
 
 
 
 
The summary results of this annual survey indicate that in 2022-2023 there was a high 
level of satisfaction with our special education programs and services and equally 
important, the collaborative continues to be a caring, responsive and effective 
organization that meets the demands of districts for efficient, effective a nd as a local 
educational option for quality services. 
QUESTION 1: 
 
QUESTION 2:   
 
 
SURVEY QUESTIONS  
 29 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 30===
 
 
QUESTION 3: 
 
 
QUESTION 4: 
 
 
 3330 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 31===
 
 
QUESTION 5:  
 
 
QUESTION 6:
 
 
 
 31 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 32===
 
 
QUESTION 7: 
 
 
 
 
 
QUESTION 8: 
What would you suggest that our Keystone's Program Administrators could do 
differently to strengthen your program needs? 
● I feel continuing with timely responses and transparency are key. 
● Nothing that I can think of-everyone is always responsive and helpful! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 33===
 
 
QUESTION 9: 
 
 
QUESTION 10:
 
 33 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 34===
 
 
QUESTION 11: 
Are you currently pleased with the new changes that the collaborative has made, and 
the new services projected in the upcoming year? Please comment. 
 
● We are very pleased. 
● I’m not sure of any new changes. 
 
 QUESTION 12: 
Can you suggest any services, supports or resources that would strengthen Keystone 
any further? 
● School psychologist for use of testing. 
● I’m very happy with the support Keystone provides, nothing additional I can think of 
right now.  
 
 
 
 
 34 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 35===
 
 
 
 
During the 2022-2023 academic year, the collaborative offered four unique programs 
designed to meet the needs of a specific student population, which complement and 
augment the educational programs and services of the member districts in a cost-
effective manner. 
 
• Keystone Alternative Elementary - Middle School  (gr. K-7), is a Massachusetts 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education approved Public Day Programs. The 
program provides therapeutic and educational programming for students with learning 
disabilities, emotional and behavioral obstacles, and complex mental health issues. 
Students within this program have been identified as needing special education services. 
 
• Keystone Academy (gr. 7-12) is also a Massachusetts Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education approved Public Day Programs. This specialized program provides 
therapeutic and educational and vocational programming for students with learning 
disabilities, emotional and behavior al obstacles, and complex mental health issues. 
Students within this program have been identified as needing special education services. 
 
• Key Program: ICAN, PREP PROGRAM & Learning for Life 
The Key Program serves students who are aged 5 -22 who are educated within public 
school settings and are substantially separate from member districts programming but 
have access to the least restrictive environment. The program serves students who have 
more complex, low incidence, cognitive, communication, related services, behavioral, 
academic, medical, and self -help needs that districts are unable to meet within the 
individual district. All the students in the Key Program have been found eligible for 
special education services.  
 
• Extended Year Services :  All three of the collaborative’s specialized Special Education 
Programs offer extended year services and programming that are appropriate for the 
specific student’s needs.  
 
PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS 
 35 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 36===
 
 
• Extended Evaluation Program: The collaborative provides extended evaluation services 
to students who were referred by school districts. Students in the program attend either 
Keystone Academy or Keystone Elementary and Middle School and receive therapeutic 
and educational services as part of the school program. In addition, students in the 
Extended Evaluation Program received evaluation and assessment services as 
identified by the student’s educational team and as requested by the sending district. 
During the extended evaluation period, the collaborative provides weekly updates to the 
sending district as well as the student's family regarding social, emotional, behavioral, 
and academic functioning within the new school environment. Students who completed 
the program received an evaluation package designed to help the district determine the 
appropriate placement and supports for that student. Students referred to the program 
may have previously been found in need of special education se rvices, but others have 
not been found to need such services. While in the program , students are typically 
provided with educational evaluations, psychological, and behavioral evaluations and 
other assessments as determined by the referring team. Students attending the 
Extended Evaluation program are provided with evaluations designed to answer those 
referral questions brought forth by the sending district. Such evaluations might include 
assessment in the following areas: academic, behavioral, social/emotional, cognitive, 
speech and language, occupational therapy, physical therapy, executive functioning, 
attention, and/or adaptive behavior . The overall goal for the Extended Evaluation 
Programs is to prepare students to return to the least restrictive environments and to 
provide districts with recommendations on how to provide services in such a setting. 
 
 
 
                       
 
 
 36 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 37===
 
 
 
 
Philosophy 
We believe that every child can learn and acquire the social skills required for success 
in school and in the community. We further believe that each child is unique, and that 
each child has the potential to make progress academically and emotionally. 
 
Mission Statement 
The mission of the KEA Program is to help each child discover his or her strengths, 
improve coping mechanisms and develop social and academic skills. The goal of the 
program is to provide each student with the behavioral and academic skills required to 
return to a less restrictive educational setting. 
 
Student Population 
The KEA Program’s strengths are in its small size and high staff/student ratio. Students 
are placed in multi -age classrooms according to their developmental needs and 
academic skills. Students are referred to the program because they demonstrate 
challenging emotional and/or behavioral concerns. Students also present with learning 
and psychological challenges including  but not limited to  ADD/ADHD, Learning 
Disabilities, PTSD, PDD, OCD and Oppositional Defiant Disorder. 
 
Referrals  
Referrals are made to the Program through the Special Education Directors of the 
sending school districts . Students may be placed within the Program on a long -term 
basis or for an Extended Evaluation Assessment.  
 
 
 37 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
Keystone Alternative Elementary- 
Middle School Program 
===PAGE 38===
 
 
Referrals for Keystone Alternative School 2022-2023 
Total referrals      63 
Not a fit for program:     10 
Accepted but selected other placement:  30 
Waitlist:       12 
 
Placement Referrals for 2022-2023 
Students enrolled: 6 
 
Extended Evaluation Referrals for 2022-2023 
Students enrolled: 5 
 
Transitions from Placement 2022-2023 
Transition to Other Keystone Program: 8 
Transitions to a more restrictive environment: 2 
Transition back to in-district public school 5 
Transition to lateral program                                        
 
Transitions from 45 Day placement 2022-2023 
Transition to long-term placement at Keystone:  4 
Transition to Other Keystone Program: 0 
Transition back to in-district public school: 0 
Transitions to a more restrictive environment: 1 
 
Program Staffing 
Each classroom is staffed with a certified licensed teacher and an appropriate number 
(average = 2) of teacher assistants to allow for a low ratio of students to adults. The 
program staff includes several related service providers: Three School Counselors , 
Occupational Therapist, Speech and Language Therapist, and BCBA. These individuals 
 38 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 39===
 
 
provide individual and/or group therapy to each student, as well as consultation to staff 
based on student need and IEP service delivery . The clinician acts as a liaison to the 
sending school districts and is available to provide support to parents and guardians. 
The Keystone Elementary program is located within the former Squannacook 
Elementary building in Townsend. We have an onsite Licensed Practical Nurse available 
to our students who is overseen by the collaborative Registered Nurse. Program 
Supervisor has overall administrative operational responsibilitie s for the Keystone 
Elementary- Middle School Program and works collaboratively with the Member District 
Administrative team and the Executive Director of the collaborative.  
 
Academic 
Our elementary-middle school classes are taught in self -contained classrooms, which 
are K-8th grade students. All subject areas and specials are taught by the classroom 
teacher except for health and fitness classes . The middle school program comprises 
students in grades 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th grades. This model provides a homeroom as a 
base classroom and include a rotating schedule for ELA, Math and Science . This model 
helps to prepare students to move from a self -contained classroom model to a model 
that helps students navigate more transitions and challenges of subject specific 
classrooms. These students continue to receive therapeutic support to meet the 
demands of a less restrictive middle school program.  
All students are taught per their IEP and at their individual instruction level. The 
curriculum of the KEA Program is aligned with the MA Curriculum Frameworks with 
appropriate modifications and/or adaptations to meet the needs of individual students. 
Related services such as speech or occupational therapy are provided according to each 
student’s IEP. Our stud ents also participate in the MCAS process with appropriate 
modifications and/or adaptations for each student.  
 
Behavior Management Social Emotional 
Learning 
Behavior Management at KEA Program  is based on respect for everyone, setting 
appropriate and consistent limits, and reasonable and positive expectations. Students 
will be given as much positive reinforcement as possible to promote prosocial 
behaviors. A variety of positive reinforcement strategies are employed. Students receive 
reinforcement and awards on both individual and group levels. 
 39 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 40===
 
 
Each class has a daily behavior chart point system, which enables the student to earn 
points or stickers for appropriate behaviors in the areas of academics, behaviors and 
adult and peer interactions. If the student has achieved 80% of possible points or stickers 
for the day, he or she may choose a prize/activity. 
If needed, individual behavioral support plans are developed by each child’s team in 
consultation with the Program Supervisor and/or counselor. The services of contracted 
Behavioral Psychologists are available on an as needed basis. Behavioral support plans 
and data are reviewed and updated routinely by the program staff. 
 
Community Based Instruction 
We are continuing to safely develop plans to provide community-based instruction for 
all our students. This initiative will allow the students to learn and perform skills, from 
the beginning, in the natural setting and will eliminate the need for a student to have to 
generalize the skill from only one setting, or with one person, in the real-life setting. 
We have been utilizing the trails and state forest land abutting the school property. We 
are working with DCR and they have provided some on site educational programming to 
our students.  We have been fortunate to work closely with the Townsend Police 
Department and the Resource Officer, Mark Francis . He visits our program frequently 
and talks with the students and joins in some of our activities . He has coordinated with 
the Fire Department and other community members to have demonstrations of 
department vehicles and services including a police dog.  
As part of our planning and development of CBI, we have been in contact with nearby 
state parks regarding various educational programming that they may be able to offer 
our students. We are excited to have our students take part in activities such as: 
snowshoe making, snowshoe hikes, nature walks, tree and animal identification, etc. 
                       
 40 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 41===
 
 
 
 
The Keystone Program strives to educate students to possess the social skills required 
for success in school and in the community while creating a learning environment where 
students can feel comfortable and confident so they can be the best version of 
themselves. 
Keystone offers a 180 -day school program in addition to a five -week extended school 
year program. 
 
Description 
Our Keystone Academy  is an educational program that supports students between 
grades 7-12, who present with significant social, emotional, and learning disabilities. 
These disabilities affect overall ability for academic success or ability to participate 
within the educational community available within their home districts. The Keystone 
Academy is a substantially separate school that focuses on the whole child approach  
regardless of the disability category. We acknowledge that some of our children today 
carry a larger emotion al burden than students of the past, and that to navigate life’s 
many challenges they may need more specialized support and guidance than was 
historically provided the goal of this full day program is to assist children in developing 
healthy relationships,  skills to self -regulate their emotions, communication skills to 
advocate for themselves and their needs, working toward their full academic potential.  
Within our trauma -sensitive community, Keystone focuses on the areas of safety, 
respect and effective learning as a foundation to participate in the daily routines and 
expectations of student life. 
 
Philosophy 
We believe at the Keystone Academy that we need to focus on the whole child approach 
regardless of the disability category . We acknowledge that some of our children today 
carry a larger emotional burden than students of the past, and that to navigate life’s 
many challenges we may need to supply them more specialized support and guidance 
than what was historically provided. The goal of this full day program is to assist children 
in developing healthy relationships, skills to self -regulate their emotions, 
communication skills to advocate for themselves and their needs, working toward their 
full academic potential.  
 
Keystone Academy 
41 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 42===
 
 
Mission Statement 
The mission of the Keystone Academy  is to provide an educational experience for 
students with special needs that fosters academic growth, social responsibility, and 
emotional health. Keystone orients its programming and instruction around the three 
areas of safety, respect, and effective learning. 
 
Student Population 
Students are referred to Keystone Academy because of being unsuccessful in general 
education, or as a step -down from a more restrictive setting. Students present with a 
variety of academic, social and behavioral challenges and/or emotional impairments 
requiring instruction in an adult -intensive, highly structured  setting with small class 
sizes and consistent support, encouragement and praise. Typical conditions seen in the 
school population include but are not limited to general and specific learning disabilities, 
attention deficit/ hyperactivity disorder, s uicidal ideation, depression, anxiety disorder, 
post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar, oppositional defiant disorder, autism spectrum 
disorder or a combination of these. 
 
Program Staffing 
Keystone Academy  initial staff professional development plan was to continue to 
increase student engagement and time on learning through further development of 
Universal Design Learning skills, utilization of classroom staff in more directed 
instruction of students and pro viding more opportunities for students to demonstrate 
mastery of concepts and applications. 
Again, with the onset of school closure, staff professional development shifted focus to 
selection and orientation on the use of programs and learning tools that would 
effectively deliver remote learning experiences . In order to continue to provide 
individualized remote learning plans, the Keystone Academy staff became proficient in 
using Google classrooms, Zoom, IXL, Discovery Education, ck-12, Read-works, Kurzweil, 
and project -based learning. Additionally, staff assembled learning packets to offer 
students and families. 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 43===
 
 
Referrals  
Referrals are made to the Program through the Special Education Directors of the 
sending school districts . Students may be placed within the Program on a long -term 
basis or for an Extended Evaluation Assessment.  
Keystone 
Referrals Enrolled Not Enrolled 
Extended 
Evaluation 
Referrals 
Enrolled Not Enrolled 
High 
School 26 8 
5- referral withheld  
by district 
7 – declined tour 
4 – other program  
1- moved 
1- more secure  
15 5 
2- referral 
withheld by 
district 
8- other program 
Middle 
School 11 3 5- no tour 
3- other program 6 3 3- other program 
    
Out of 18 students who left the Academy during the 2022-23 Academic Year: 
# Of students Disposition 
1 Received a Certificate of Completion 
1 Graduated with a diploma and a Certificate in HVAC from Leominster 
CTEi. 
4 Students transitioned successfully to their home district school 
4 Students were hospitalized and then were relocated within the group 
care system. 
3 Students transferred to a more restrictive setting. 
2 Transition to home district’s alternative school. 
1 On the run for 6 months and relocate in group care. 
1 Transferred to another collaborative. 
1 Moved out of area. 
 
 
 43 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 44===
 
 
Extended Evaluation 
Extended Evaluation:   Program students enrolled   in  the  Evaluation  Program  are 
assigned to Keystone Academy classrooms and participate in daily school programs to 
facilitate assessment while with their peers.   The full-time School Psychologist/Lead 
Clinician continued to be pivotal  in evaluating all students enrolled in in the Extended 
Evaluations and continued  defining the assessment process and oversight of the written 
reports.  
  
Program Services  
Individualized Academic and Behavioral Programming 
Keystone Academy adheres to the delivery of services accommodations and 
modifications described in a student IEP.  
 
The Academy’s tier one behavior system: students are monitored under a generalized 
reinforcement system. The middle school utilizes a daily point earning system as a gage 
for students to determine success. Students earn points for success in the areas of 
effective learning, respect, and school safety. Point sheets are tabulated daily and  
converted into “school dollars” to be spent at a school store or saved up for a higher 
value reward. 
Keystone Academy high school community utilizes a Level System as the fundamental 
structure to promote behavioral, social, and academic growth. The six (6) levels are 
sets of clear standards for an effective student. This system is instrumental in assisting 
students in setting and meeting goals, and in allowing students to monitor their own 
progress on a day-to-day basis in school. 
 
Daily Literacy Instruction 
Keystone Academy continues to devote daily instructional time for the enhancement of 
skills in the areas of listening, reading comprehension, speaking, and writing. Student 
on or near grade-level skills participate in a novel-based curriculum. Struggling readers 
continue to benefit from the Lexia. This program provides the additional skill building in 
the areas of word recognition, vocabulary knowledge, syntactic knowledge and reading 
comprehension. 
Academically, the Academy works closely with the referring districts to assure our high 
school students are taking and succeeding in the required course work and 
requirements to receive a district high school diploma. 
 
 44 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 45===
 
 
Technologically and Standards Based Academic Curriculum 
With the move to our new location, Keystone Academy  was able to acquire existing 
technology equipment (interactive whiteboards, computer network), increase access to 
online learning and bring technology into the classroom.  This allowed the program to 
deliver standards-based curriculum with a wider variety of strategies and programing. 
With the school closure as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the collaborative joined 
the state and the nation in supporting educators to develop and assemble high -quality 
educational materials to provide students with effective remote learning resources. 
Simultaneous with selecting educational platforms and programs, came training and 
implementation of dist ance learning strategies while working with families and 
caretakers to create manageable routines in the home that assured safety and well -
being, materials and equipment and predictable on a weekly basis. 
Technologically and standards based academic curriculum is offered throughout the 
year. 
 
Clinical Services 
Two full -time School Counselors provide therapeutic clinical/mental health services 
through individual counseling, social skills groups, mediation, and conflict -
resolution/problem solving skills. All students receive a 1:1 session as well as a social 
skills group weekly based on student need and IEP service delivery. Social Skill groups 
are co-facilitated by the two School Counselors.  
Keystone Academy continued to benefit from ongoing psychiatric 
consultation. 
 
• Student centered clinical reviews increased our knowledge and understanding 
of nature of an individual student and how to develop a clinically informed 
intervention plan. 
• Professional Development and Program development consultation. 
 
Crisis Intervention 
All staff are trained and certified in CPI Nonviolent Crisis Intervention. The program 
supports a hands -off policy unless indicated. Staff focus on identifying students’ 
baseline character/traits, escalation cycles and disability-indicated features as a means 
to intervene early and de-escalate students early. 
  
 
 
 45 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 46===
 
 
Health and Wellness Awareness Education 
In addition to health classes being offered, Keystone Academy also offers a variety of 
opportunities for physical education . In seasonally good weather, Keystone Academy 
visits local parks for hiking and exploration.  
We have an outdoor area with a basketball hoop for movement breaks and pick -up 
games. Through memberships at the local YMCA and affiliation with the Boys and Girls 
Club of Fitchburg and Leominster we have sites in colder weather to offer sports, 
exercise and workouts. 
After a two-year lapse, we again were able to partner with Making Opportunity Count 
(MOC) whose staff provide health education classes that are important to youth in our 
care.  
 
 
 
 
Functional Life Skills  
To prepar e students for post -high school pursuits, Keystone Academy  provides 
instruction to assure a successful transition to college, career/trade training, world of  
work and/or independent living. Curriculum in Career Education and Math is geared to  
acquisition of financial literacy, including personal finance and budgeting skills. 
Development of student mastery in the area of activities of daily living are supported  
thought cooking opportunities, meal planning and preparation; community exploration 
though field trips to local establishments, restaurants, reading a bus schedule planning 
a local trip utilizing public transportation. 
 
 46 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 47===
 
 
Vocational Skills Development  
This year the Career Education Teacher position was enhanced to Transition Specialist 
(requiring the DESE approved Transitional Specialist endorsement). In addition to 
the  classes, there is a greater emphasis on career exploration, job search and 
application, the development of positive work attitudes and work -related employability 
skills. More time is spent in the community exploring jobs and resources available for 
post high school pursuits. 
 
           
 
Expansion in Program Services 
This year a half-time BCBA has been added to consult with staff and oversee 
development of behavior support plans for Tier II and III students. 
 
Career Skills/Transitional Services 
We were able to renew our relationship with Leominster Center for Technical 
Education Innovation; our students were able to resume shop classes.  With the 
support and instruction of CTEi instructors helped an Academy student graduate with 
certificate in HVAC. 
 
The purchase of a new precision router has increased skill and learning opportunities 
in the wood shop classes.  Students are producing more personal projects as well as  
creating furniture and classroom items for the Collaborative classroom and therapy 
areas. 
 
 
 47 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 48===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Philosophy 
Our philosophy is that your child will experience a year full of success in the following 
ways: 
Through specialized instruction, all children will experience growth across the following 
areas:  
• Self-advocacy skills necessary to communicate effectively and at their highest level 
of complexity 
• Self-reliance skills necessary to be as independent as possible. 
• Academic skills, including l iteracy and mathematics that challenge in an attainable 
manner. 
• Endurance and attitude necessary to participate in meaningful, productive work. 
 
 
Mission Statement 
It is the mission of Key Programs, to partner with parents, professionals from sending 
school districts, and members of the community, to develop confident, capable, and self-
motivated learners who are ready to return to a less restrictive school setting. The Key 
Program orients its programming and instruction around the three focuses of safety, 
respect, and effective learning. 
The Key Programs promotes, supports, and celebrates the ideals of learning and critical 
thinking as lifelong pursuits and challenges students to acquire the skills necessary to 
meet the changing technical, social, and economic demands of our world . Further, it is 
the mission of the Key Programs to develop individuals who will respect the diversity of 
race, color, age, gender, religion, sexual orientation, or mental challenges.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                        
KEY Program 
  
 48 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 49===
 
 
Student Population 
The KEY Program  continue to provide specialized services to students with special 
needs, in a public day school setting. Students present with profound deficits that impact 
their ability to function independently and make effective progress in the general 
education setting. All referrals made to these classrooms come through the child-study 
process where it was determined that the student required a more intensive educational 
setting, to make effective progress. 
Student’s present with a variety of academic, social, and behavioral challenges. As some 
students are academically competitive, a large majority of students present with 
significant delays in cognition, self - regulation skills, motor skill deficits, a s well as  
expressive and receptive language delays. In addition, some students present with 
significant medical needs that require direct nursing support throughout the school day. 
Students require a high level of adult supervision and assistance to keep them safe and 
implement all their educational goals and objectives. 
Standard diagnoses include: 
• Autism Spectrum Disorders 
• Developmental Delay 
• Down Syndrome 
• Intellectual Disability 
• Rare Genetic Disorders (Charge Syndrome, Wolf Hirschhorn 
Syndrome, Fragile X etc.) 
• Multiple Disabilities (Autism/ADHD/Sensory Processing, 
Autism/Spina, Bifida/Intellectual, Autism/ODD) 
 
 
 49 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 50===
 
 
Program Staffing 
Each classroom is staffed with a certified teacher and an appropriate number of 
paraprofessionals to allow for a low ratio of students to adults (2:1). The staff that 
support the KEY programs are professionally licensed, highly qualified, CPI certified and 
endlessly committed to our students and their families . Additionally, the KEY program 
has dedicated job coaches who assist the students in gaining vocational skills needed 
for life after graduation. 
 
DESE licensed staff 
● 2 Administrator 
● 12 Teachers 
 
Professionally licensed staff 
● 9 Therapists, 4 SLPs, 2 OTs, 2 PTs, 1 TVI 
● 3 Therapy Assistant, 2 COTAs, 1 PTA 
● 1 Family Support Coordinator 
● 4 (1 RN & 3 LPN); plus 6 agency nurses 
● 1 Rehabilitation Counselor 
● 2 BCBA 
 
Highly Qualified Support Staff 
● 40 Paraprofessionals 
● 2 Job Coaches 
● 1 Program Secretary 
 
Referrals  
Referrals to the school are made by Directors of Special Education, Educational Team 
Leaders (ETL) or Out-of-District Coordinators from the student’s home school district’s 
Special Education Department. Upon receipt of the referral package (including all testing 
and IEP), a KEY Program Administrator will contact the district . If the student appears 
to be appropriate for the school, an appointment will be made to observe the student in 
his/her current educational setting, as well as an appointment for the student’s 
parent/guardian to visit the KEY Program and participate in an intake interview . The 
referring school personnel, the KEY Program staff, and the student’s current Team 
members, together with the parents/guardians, make the final placement decision 
 50 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 51===
 
 
regarding enrollment. All students must have a current IEP and provide immunization 
records before starting at the KEY Program. 
 
Placement Referrals for 2022-2023 
Students enrolled:      26 
Accepted but selected other placement   24 
Not a fit for program     13 
Programs were full (waiting list)     6 
 
Transitions from Placement 2022-2023 
Back to district:      5 
Transition to another Keystone Program   0 
Transition to another Collaborative Program  0 
Transition to a more restrictive environment  2 
Graduated/Transition to adult services:   6 
Moved Out-of-State      3  
 
 
Program Services  
Individualized academic and behavioral programming 
The KEY Program is an intensive language based program that utilizes applied behavior 
analysis (ABA) in conjunction with an interprofessional collaborative practice.  Each 
classroom utilizes various instructional techniques including discrete trials, small 
groups, hands-on and multi-sensory learning experiences, behavioral modification, and 
positive behavioral supports suitable for children with special needs. Daily living skills 
are incorporated within the context of the daily routine to teach safety, self-awareness, 
and independence. All students receive instruction that is individualized, aligning with 
their Individualized Education Plans, in a low student to teacher ratio environment (2:1). 
Students in the KEY Programs participate in the MCAS process with appropriate 
modifications and/or adaptations for each student , either in a computer-based format 
or via the MCAS-Alt Portfolio.  Possible modifications to MCAS computer-based testing 
include shorter  periods with frequent breaks, small group administration, test 
administrator reading directions, and tracking for test items and scribing. Students who 
are unable to participate in a traditional pencil -to-paper test are expected to complete 
an MCAS Alt Portfolio Assessment. 
 
 
 51 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 52===
 
 
Related Services  
Related services refers to developmental, corrective, and other supportive services that  
are required for a student with a disability to succeed in education ; services include  
speech-language pathology and audiology services, physical and occupational therapy, 
orientation and mobility services, and medical services for diagnostic or evaluation 
purposes.  
The KEY Program currently utilizes an integrated therapy model to deliver therapeutic 
services to students. Integrated therapy incorporates the same therapy approach as 
“push-in” but adds additional structure to the relationships with teachers and overall 
process. In this service delivery model, supports are provided in the classroom, where 
the student is receiving instruction. Therapy is provided in a less restrictive setting and 
does not remove the student from the classroom or instruction. It also helps students 
to generalize their skills beyond the pull -out therapy setting and provides generalized 
benefits for all students and their teaching staff. 
Related services also include school health services and school nurse services, social 
work services in schools, and parent counseling as well as training. 
Keystone related services providers are fully l icensed to practice in the state of 
Massachusetts and are integral members of the educational team s. Related services 
are provided per each student’s IEP. 
 
Behavior management and social emotional learning 
Each classroom teaching team meets weekly to discuss student progress toward 
educational targets as well as positive behavioral changes. Classroom data is analyzed 
and reviewed to determine if any adjustments need to be made to a student’s academic 
instruction or behavioral protocol. 
Behavior management within the KEY programs is tailored to the individual child, with 
positive expectations put in place along with reinforcement to shape future behavior. A 
variety of reinforcement strategies are employed, including token economies, self -
monitoring systems, and various contingencies. 
Individual behavior support plans are developed and utilized for each student, and data 
is reviewed routinely by the program staff and the in-program board certified behavior 
analyst (BCBA). 
 
 
 
 
 52 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 53===
 
 
Community based instruction: 
The KEY programs offer vocational training activities that support the development of a 
positive work attitude, job skills and work endurance. These activities include a mail run 
service between program sites, as well as community-based opportunities at locations 
including Tiny’s Restaurant, Nashoba Park Assisted Living, Cell Treats at Phoenix Park, 
the Perkins School Laundry, Ayer Police Station, Pit Stop Barber Shop, and Spanish 
American Club. 
Additionally, students access the local community to develop greater safety skills, 
community awareness, social exposure and career awareness. 
 
                                             
 
                                                          
 
 53 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 54===
 
 
                       
Services and Supports  
In alignment with our mission to continuously address the evolving needs of our member 
districts, the collaborative has extended its support through a range of services 
designed to complement and fortify district programs and resources. Our commitment 
to assisting districts has resulted in cost -effective and flexible long -term and short -
term related servic es, the provision of extended year services, the coordination of a 
virtual learning initiative utilizing the Edgenuity platform, the implementation of home 
supports using telepresence learning robots (BEAM robots), fiscal management of the 
Footsteps to Bri lliance early literacy innovation zone, offering cost savings through 
cooperative purchasing agreements for INTERFACE mental health referral services, 
cooperative procurement and management of Tobi Boardmaker, and the delivery of 
ongoing, high-quality professional development opportunities. 
 
Staff Training and Consultation 
The collaborative's staff members continue to be recognized and sought after for their 
expertise across various disciplines by local school districts. Throughout the 2022-2023 
school year, our staff has officially provided valuable support to our member districts in 
several key areas. This support includes consultation and evaluations for district staff 
in verbal de-escalation and physical management techniques, guidance in working with 
paraprofessionals, and the utilization of the ACES Curriculum tool for task analysis and 
data collection, offering a curriculum that allows staff to become Registered Behavioral 
Technicians. We have also offered support and consultation to distric t experts on AAC 
(Augmentative and Alternative Communication) needs, educational -based adaptive 
equipment, and family-based support and training. 
Furthermore, the collaborative has extended clinical and academic consultation 
services to member districts, facilitated by our Board Certified Behavior Analysts and 
School Psychologists, addressing both individual student needs and larger program 
reviews. Additionally, we have provided mentoring services to districts with newly 
acquired BCBA's, SLP-CF's (Speech-Language Pathologists in their Clinical Fellowship 
Year), and PTA supervision. 
 
Extended Year Services 
Many of the students served by the collaborative necessitate extended year services to 
meet their educational needs. To optimize efficiency and offer a wider range of activities, 
the collaborative organizes a five-week summer program that brings together students 
from our KEY programs and those from our member districts. Students in our Academy 
Program and KEA Programs attend summer sessions at our Fitchburg and Townsend 
COLLABORATIVE PROGRAM SERVICES 
 54 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 55===
 
 
facilities, respectively. These programs operate from Monday through Thursday, offering 
continuous academic instruction, related services, and a blend of enjoyable yet 
functional activities. 
The collaborative's Extended Year Services are available to any student from our 
districts who require the services provided by our programs and meet the acceptance 
criteria. This includes students whether or not they attend the collaborative program 
during the regular school year. The rates for the Extended Year Program are based on 
daily rates, prorated for shorter days, and are highly competitive with private schools 
and other service providers. 
 
Related Services 
The collaborative remains committed to delivering related services to our member 
districts, covering a broad spectrum of areas that include physical therapy, occupational 
therapy, speech therapy, vision and orientation and mobility services, BCBA (Board 
Certified Behavior Analyst),  and psychological/educational evaluation services. Our 
dedicated related service staff, working within local districts, play a vital role in 
supplementing district-related service providers, addressing short-term needs, and, in 
certain cases, fulfilling all therapy service requirements mandated by the district. 
Throughout the 2022-2023 school year, our collaborative-related service providers have 
been actively engaged in various districts, including Ayer-Shirley, Leominster, Gardner, 
Fitchburg, Narragansett, Clinton, and Winchendon, extending their support and expertise 
to meet the diverse needs of our member districts. 
 
Virtual Education 
The collaborative continues to oversee the coordination of the Edgenuity Virtual 
Learning platform for districts engaged in the regional virtual learning initiative. This 
encompasses handling billing with Edgenuity, which is based on district usage, and 
facilitating meetings and training sessions with the designated district administrators. 
Throughout the 2022-2023 school year, a total of xxx students capitalized on Edgenuity 
courses. 
Participating in the collaborative -sponsored cooperative purchasing agreement with 
Edgenuity has enabled districts to offer a wider array of courses that they might not 
have had the individual capacity to provide. This has allowed them to retain students 
who might have considered leaving the district due to unique academic requirements, 
such as student-athletes participating at a level requiring them to be absent for portions 
of the regular school calendar. Furthermore, districts have had the opportunity to  
provide their staff with valuable experience in teaching within a virtual learning 
environment, equipping them with the necessary skills to manage larger cohorts of 
students engaged in virtual education. 
 55 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 56===
 
 
Edgenuity: Number of Students in attendance per semester 
 
Edgenuity 2022-2023 
Ashburnham/Westminster  
1 semester courses 
8 full-year courses  $4,675.00 
Ayer/Shirley  128 semester courses  $35,175.00 
Clinton  28 semester courses  $7,525.00 
Gardner  62 semester courses  $14,375.00 
West Boylston  
34 semester courses 
1 full-year courses   $9,400.00 
    $71,150.00 
 
 
Footsteps to Brilliance/North Central Early Literacy Innovation Zone  
Over the course of the 2022-2023 school year the collaborative, continued our work with 
a number of member and non-member districts located along the Rt. 2 corridor and with 
the United Way/Community Foundation of North Central MA to support an Early Literacy 
Innovation Zone using the Foot steps to Brilliance (F2B) early literacy application. The 
collaborative continued to act as the fiscal agent on behalf of participating districts and 
enabled those districts to access grant funding from the United Way/Community 
Foundation. This funding from the United Way/Community Foundation paid for half of the 
cost for a five-year contract to provide the F2B application to the districts and their 
respective communities. Districts that participated in the funding through the 
collaborative included Clinton, Gardner, Narragansett, Winchendon, Lunenburg and 
Leominster. The collaborative was pleased to act on behalf of these districts to reach  
children and families in pre-k through grade 3 living in those communities and continues 
to look forward on analyzing the data collected to guide our members on the  
effectiveness of these programs. 
The Early Literacy Innovation Zone is an innovate approach to increasing early literacy 
skills on a regional basis and could serve as a model for other regions across the 
country. This five-year project involved a commitment from districts and the United 
Way/Community Foundation of North Central to utilize an easy to access, multilingual, 
and effective technology application to improve reading skills in young children. By 
partnering with the Unit ed Way/Community Foundation the collaborative was able to 
save participating districts almost $2,500,000 on the cost of F2B licenses over the 
course of the five-year United Way grant.  
 56 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 57===
 
 
PROGRESS TOWARD MEETING THE 
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE 
AGREEMENT  
 
Improving the academic achievement of all students in the least restrictive 
environment: 
The collaborative remains committed to delivering programs that feature a robust 
curriculum and instructional practices tailored to meet the distinct needs of each 
student, all while adhering to the comprehensive requirements outlined in an individual 
student's Individual Educational Plan (IEP). Our collaborative services are administered 
by appropriately licensed and highly trained staff, always with a focus on providing 
education within the least restrictive environment, as determined by the student's 
dedicated IEP team. 
Our KEY programs are strategically situated within public school settings, ensuring that 
all students have opportunities for interaction within the least restrictive environment, 
which may include participation in general education settings, depending on the specific 
needs of the student. Students in the KEA programs benefit from educational and 
counseling services that equip them with the necessary skills and knowledge to 
facilitate their return to less restrictive educational settings, whenever that is a viable 
option. Keystone students actively participate in MCAS or MCAS Alternative 
Assessments, with tailored accommodations determined by their educational teams. 
In our ongoing commitment to excellence, the collaborative continues to develop 
strategies related to behavior management, transition support, and integration efforts, 
all aimed at ensuring that Keystone students can fully and effectively benefit from 
educational services within less restrictive settings. Furthermore, the collaborative 
maintains its unwavering support for the North Central MA Early Literacy Innovation 
Zone, facilitating access to early literacy applications, including the Footsteps to 
Brilliance program, for all children and families within the participating districts. 
 
To develop and offer a variety of quality professional development 
opportunities to general and special education teachers, paraprofessionals, 
 57 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 58===
 
 
school administrators and related service providers that are designed to 
enhance instructional practices:  
Every year, the collaborative tailors its Professional Development offerings to meet the 
specific needs of our member districts and the collaborative's own staff. These needs 
are identified through input from the Advisory Board, comprised of Special Education 
Administrators, our internal staff, and our Board of Directors, which includes 
Superintendents. 
In the previous year, the collaborative provided a range of valuable training sessions, 
including two legal trainings led by an experienced and highly respected school attorney. 
We also conducted training on effective strategies for addressing anxiety in educational 
settings, offered insights into the ACES curriculum package, and conducted numerous 
restraint training sessions for our staff. These trainings were facilitated by one of our 
four CPI certified instructors. The collaborative maintains its commitment to being both 
responsive and proactive in addressing the specialized training requirements of our 
member districts. 
Furthermore, we maintain an active partnership with the Federation for Children with 
Special Needs' Recruitment and Training Support Center (RTSC), specifically the LEA 
Special Education Surrogate Parent Recruitment Training Project. This partnership 
enables Keystone staff and personnel from our member districts to benefit from 
discounted rates when attending RTSC training programs. 
Moreover, the collaborative is a proud member of the Massachusetts Organization of 
Educational Collaboratives (MOEC), consistently sharing information with member 
districts about professional development opportunities offered by various other 
collaboratives in the region. Many of these opportunities are the result of joint planning 
efforts within MOEC regional committees. 
 
 
 58 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 59===
 
 
To provide other educationally related programs, supports and services to 
our member districts and surrounding communities that are of high quality 
and cost effective, as directed by the Keystone Board of Directors:  
 
The collaborative remains flexible and responsive in meeting the needs of our districts 
by providing high quality professional development offering that are local, are cost 
effective and are presented by knowledgeable and respected experts. We have been 
able to meet the needs for both short - and long-term related service providers of our 
districts and provide licensed, skilled and experienced physical therapists, teachers of 
the visually impaired and orientation and mobility therapists, speech pathologists,  and 
BCBA’s. 
The collaborative remains committed to offering a range of educationally related 
programs, support services, and public day programs, catering to the diverse needs of 
our students. These programs include The KEA Programs, which serve students with 
social-emotional and learning disabilities, as well as substantially separate programs 
within public schools, such as the KEY Program, designed for students on the autism 
spectrum or those with significant intellectual or developmental disabilities. We 
continue to  provide extended year services across our programs, ensuring ongoing 
support and educational opportunities. 
In response to the complex needs of students with significant mental health challenges, 
the Board approved the creation of two new positions for the 2022 -2023 school year. 
These include a Transition Specialist who collaborates with districts to facilitate 
successful transitions of students to and from appropriate placements, and an 
Integration Specialist who works with collaborative classroom teachers in the KEY 
Program and district staff to integrate students with significant developmental and 
behavioral issues into general education classrooms. 
Our collaborative maintains its flexibility and responsiveness to the evolving needs of 
our member districts. We offer high -quality professional development programs that 
are locally accessible, cost-effective, and led by knowledgeable and respected experts. 
This approach allows us to effectively address the short - and long-term requirements 
of our member districts by providing licensed, skilled, and experienced professionals, 
including physical therapists, teachers of the visually impaired and orientation and 
mobility therapists, speech pathologists, and BCBA's. 
 
  
 59 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 60===
 
 
PROGRESS TOWARD STRATEGIC PLAN 
 
The Collaborative Strategic Plan is a strategic roadmap that positions our organization 
to create new growth opportunities, maintain financial stability, and remain highly 
responsive to the needs of our students, their families, and our member districts. This 
plan serves as a guiding blueprint to ensure that the collaborative continues to function 
as a dynamic and adaptable entity, dedicated to addressing the u nique requirements of 
our member districts. 
The planning process involved a strong commitment from the Executive Board and 
administrative team, who were dedicated to providing ample opportunities for 
stakeholders and public school districts to contribute to the plan's design. This inclusive 
approach encompassed focus group sessions with the Executive Board, Advisory Board, 
Keystone staff, administrators, and the Steering Committee. These sessions allowed for 
individual, small group, and large group participation, yielding both qualitative and 
quantitative data. This diverse input culminated in the approval of five Strategic Target 
Goal Areas by the Executive Board. 
 
1. Program Development and Strengthening  
• a. Strengthen S/E and mental health supports/programs  
• b. Create a continuum of supports for medically fragile students  
2. Facilities  
• a. New location for ED/BD programs  
• b. Review 3-year space options for Central Office and Public Day 
Programs  
• c. Explore purchasing or leasing facilities, Capital Planning  
3. Marketing and Branding  
• a. Further development of the Keystone Brand  
• b. Development of strategic marketing plan  
• c. Update the Keystone website  
4. Staff Development  
• a. Seek and retain high quality staff  
• b. Provide high quality, research-based professional development  
5. Inter-district Professional Development  
• a. High quality, research-based PD  
• b. Create collaborative PD Coordinator position  
• c. Create on-going inter-district PD Advisory Committee  
 
 
 60 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 61===
 
 
Goal 1: 
With the growing need for mental health services the collaborative established a Mental 
Health study committee. This committee included district staff, a consulting psychiatrist, 
a school psychologist, a representative from the Department of Mental Health, and 
collaborative personnel involved in our extended evaluations and alternative programs. 
In the 2018-2019 school year, the MH study group presented its recommendations to the 
Board. In the spring of 2019, the Board approved the inclusion of Transition Specialist 
and Integration Specialist positions in the FY 2020 budget, with job descriptions crafted 
based on the group's input. 
Recognizing the capabilities of the INTERFACE Referral Service at William James 
College in providing support to families within our districts, the MH study group 
collaborated with them. Keystone entered into an agreement with INTERFACE, along 
with four dis tricts – Leominster, Ayer/Shirley, Fitchburg, and Winchendon, to offer 
referral support to these districts and the communities they serve. By providing regional 
support for INTERFACE outreach in these communities, the collaborative has helped 
save each participating district substantial resources. 
Regular quarterly assessments were conducted over the two -year project, 
demonstrating a direct and significant investment in the well -being of students within 
our members' communities and beyond. However, with the increased demand for mental 
health support during the pandemic and the potential strain on resources like Interface, 
new opportunities have emerged to enhance the current system through other service 
providers, such as Care Solace. The collaborative is committed to working with member 
districts to expand the range of vendors available to meet their specific needs. 
One of the central goals of the collaborative is to create a continuum of services for our 
medically fragile population. Substantial progress has been made through the 
acquisition of a building in Fitchburg, MA. This has allowed for the design of specialized 
classrooms and the allocation of resources to cater to the unique needs of these 
students. Additionally, the collaborative has facilitated the procurement of cutting-edge 
technology, including a robotic gait trainer, to assist medically fragile students  with 
mobility limitations and motor skill development challenges stemming from their 
disabilities. 
 
 
 
 
 61 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 62===
 
 
 
 
https://www.telegram.com/story/news/local/the-item/2022/10/13/keystone-
educational-collaborative-robot-teaches-students-how-walk/8237052001/ 
 
 
 62 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 63===
 
 
Goal 2:  
 
If you build it, they will come… 
 
During the 2019 -2020 academic year, the collaborative conducted a comprehensive 
analysis to address the growing demand for students entering high school-level grades 
and their evolving requirements for academic and vocational exposure, especially those 
with cognitive impairments. The data highlighted a disparity between the increasing 
number of internal students within our Key Program, "Learning for Life Program," which 
primarily focused on entry to mid -level academic and life skills, and the escalating 
referrals of mild to moderately cognitively impaired students in need  of a robust 
academic program and vocational exposure. Responding to this, the Board of Directors 
approved the conversion of a Shirley location program into the "PREP" Program, tailored 
to support these students' needs. Formal requests and licensure were s ubmitted and 
subsequently approved by the Department of Secondary and Elementary Education on 
July 20, 2020. 
Moving forward to the 2021 -2022 school year, the collaborative achieved a significant 
milestone by acquiring its first property within one of our member districts, located in 
Fitchburg, MA. This single -level, 24,000 -square-foot structure provided an excellent 
opportunity for the KEY Program to expand and grow. This move allowed the 
collaborative to optimize financial and human capital resources by consolidating the 
previous six sites into three, with over 75% of the student population now situated at the 
new site. This expansion not only enables us to support a larger student bod y but also 
 63 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 64===
 
 
offers the potential for more extensive and long-term educational and therapeutic care 
for some of the most significantly impacted students. 
The collaborative, with the support of the Board, remains committed to strategically 
planning for its long -term future. This entails ongoing analysis to determine the 
feasibility of procuring an additional educational site. We are currently evaluating 
various options, including leasing within our member districts, remodeling existing 
spaces, or securing long -term commercial leases within the community. The current 
state of the health pandemic has increased the accessibility of commercial and specialty 
properties, providing the collaborative and its members with unique ownership 
opportunities. Based on our budgetary considerations, the majority of our lease 
expenditures are associated with member sites. By consolidating two similar programs 
under one roof (Ke ystone Programs), we could potentially allocate 78% of the lease 
revenue toward a permanent location. This strategic move aims to deliver a cost -
effective, high -quality program that can support more students and families. In the 
upcoming fiscal year, the c ollaborative will diligently work on exploring and 
implementing these strategic options. 
 
Goal 3: 
With the transition of leadership from the former Executive Director, an opportunity 
arose for the new Executive Director, John Demanche, to conduct a comprehensive 
evaluation of all available data and thoroughly assess the program and its various 
components. After an extensive examination of the data and notes, the previous 
rebranding team reconvened to propose a fresh identity, "Keystone Educational 
Collaborative." In March 2020, the Executive Board approved the adoption of this new 
name. A formal request  for amending the agreement was submitted and subsequently 
endorsed by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education in July 2020. 
The approval of Keystone Educational Collaborative's mission and name has not only 
redefined the program but also set its course for the future. This transformation 
provided the collaborative with the opportunity to embrace change, revamp program 
names to better reflect their functions rather than merely categorizing them based on 
the disabilities they serve and redesign their websites for improved user -friendliness. 
These changes are advantageous not only for the organization but also for its members 
and the families it serves. 
All formal applications were submitted to the Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education and received approval by July 2020. The new website was officially launched 
on August 1, marking the inception of the organization's journey as Keystone Educational 
Collaborative. 
 
 64 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 65===
 
 
Mission: 
"To unify our communities and empower each child's individual growth for the future by 
establishing a strong educational foundation with the tools of today." 
Goals 4 & 5: 
Throughout the 2022 -2023 school year, as the organization underwent significant 
structural changes, an extensive analysis was conducted on staff development and 
district professional development opportunities while maintaining a commitment to 
"quality and cost -effective" practices. The findings from this analysis emphasized the 
need f or the creation of a robust internal infrastructure to consistently support the 
program and its members along a unified continuum of content. 
During the year, the collaborative assembled a team of experts to bolster support for 
our members on both district and program levels, with a vision to further address 
district needs in the upcoming years. The following key additions were made: 
Board Certified Behavior Analysts (BCBA): These clinical experts, strategically hired at 
various levels including teachers, consultants, and paraprofessionals meeting BACB 
requirements, have not only enhanced support for our internal students but have also  
become a resource for our members for program review and individual consultation. 
The team has developed a BACB -approved course sequence, which has successfully 
prepared our paraprofessionals, with a remarkable 90% exam pass rate. This content is 
accessible to our members to empower their staff, and a secondary course is in 
development for non-licensed teachers. This initiative has contributed to staff retention 
and professional growth while ensuring high-quality support for our students and their 
families. 
Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT): The collaborative enlisted a doctoral -level Physical 
Therapist to oversee both internal and contracted services. This move aims to establish 
best clinical practices in the field of physical therapy for students in an educational 
setting. The collaborative recognized variations in therapy service providers based on 
changing licensure requirements and sought to provide a consistent methodological 
approach to treatment to our member districts. Additionally, the DPT will be certified as 
a MOVE Curriculum instructor, offering an empirically based  curriculum to support 
students with physical disabilities in the least restrictive environment. 
School Psychologist: An internal school psychologist role was introduced to assist with 
student referrals for Extended Evaluations and re -evaluations for students in the 
program. This resource has been instrumental in providing educational and social -
emotional support for our students and districts, aligning with best practices in 
educational research. This school psychologist has also taken the lead in implementing 
the SEI curriculum acquired by the collaborative, a research -based and CASEL -
approved progra m known as Positive Actions. Furthermore, they have provided 
 65 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 66===
 
 
consistency and methodological support for our counselors in collaboration with Dr. 
Wilkins, the collaborative's contracted psychiatrist. This structured foundation is being 
further developed as the Transition Program Coordinator role evolves to better ser ve 
students when they are ready to be reintegrated into their sending districts and 
communities. 
The collaborative is immensely grateful for the support of member districts in securing 
these highly specialized positions. In return, the collaborative is committed to expanding 
member exposure to high -quality professional development and support. Looking  
ahead, the collaborative is currently collaborating with TUFTS University to design a 
capstone program for their new doctoral program in Occupational Therapy. This 
program aims to deliver a more comprehensive curriculum and occupational therapy 
staff alig ned with current research -based best practices suitable for educational 
environments. Additionally, the collaborative has expanded its capacity for augmentative 
and alternative communication (AAC) and speech-language pathology (SLP) evaluations 
to meet the growing needs of students with disabilities in these areas. 
Furthermore, the collaborative continues its partnership with Fitchburg State University, 
serving as an educational site for teachers seeking licensure in Severe Disabilities. This 
collaboration aims to retain high-quality educators within our member communities. 
The ongoing health pandemic has highlighted numerous shortages within our member 
districts, particularly in specialized disciplines. The collaborative remains dedicated to 
addressing these shortages and providing the necessary services to support our 
communities in these areas. 
 
 
 
 
 66 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 67===
 
 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S SUMMARY 
Keystone Collaborative, a venerable educational resource with over four decades of 
service to our communities, member districts, students, and families, understands the 
importance of adapting and evolving in an ever -changing world. As an educational 
institution, embracing change is not a choice but a necessity; obsolescence is not an 
option. 
Having been a part of this organization for four years, I can proudly say that, even in the 
face of challenges posed by a global health pandemic, we remain resolute in our 
mission. We are committed to consistently providing high -quality education while 
continuously adjusting to meet the evolving needs of the students we serve. 
Keystone Educational Collaborative's primary focus remains unwavering in its 
dedication to enhancing the academic, social, emotional, and self -help skills of our 
students, enabling them to lead meaningful and productive lives within their own 
communities. We honor the foundations laid by our predecessors and pledge to adapt 
and restructure to better support our students as we navigate the future. Our 
unwavering dedication to excellence and our students' success drives us to redefine and 
fortify the foundation upon which we build the future. 
 
John Demanche, M. Ed, BCBA, LABA,  
Executive Director 
 
 
 
Keystone Educational Collaborative 
2 Shaker Road, Suite D215 
Shirley, MA 01464 
 
www.keystonecollaborative.org 
 
 67 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 68===
 
 
 
 
