===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
2021-2022 
ANNUAL REPORT 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keystone Educational Collaborative 
2 Shaker Road, Suite D215 
Shirley, MA 01464 
 
 
www.keystonecollaborative.org 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUR MISSION 
 
The mission of Keystone Educational 
Collaborative is to unite our 
communities together to strengthen 
each individual students’ growth for 
the future. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUR VISION 
The focus of Keystone Educational Collaborative 
is to lock-in the foundation of our students’ 
future with the tools of today by developing and 
providing high quality, cost effective, 
educationally related programs for special needs 
students, professional development and other 
services that strengthen and enhance the 
educational offerings of our member districts.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 4 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
OUR PRINCIPLES 
− We believe our programs and services should be of the highest quality and should 
continue to be responsive to the changing needs of our member districts. 
− We believe that our students should be provided with the highest level of quality 
programs and services that will allow each of them opportunities to reach their 
highest potential and demonstrate ongoing, measurable progress and 
independence. 
− We believe that all students shou ld be challenged to learn in a caring, inclusive 
environment that respects diversity and values life-long learning.  
− We believe all students should be provided educational programs and services in 
the least restrictive environment and we work closely with each district to return 
students to their home district whenever it is appropriate. 
− We believe high quality; ongoing and relevant professional development is 
essential for growth and the success of the educational process. 
− We recognize the need to involve and support families to facilitate the educational 
process. 
− We believe student assessment and program evalua tion are essential for 
continuous improvement. 
− We recognize the need to support the social and emotional well -being of our 
students. 
− We embrace collegiality and a sense of shared commitment and recognize that 
we accomplish more collectively than separately. 
− We recognize and celebrate the unique contributions and accomplishments of 
everyone in our collaborative community. 
− We encourage and accept a diversity of opinions to stimulate innovative and 
creative ideas and effective solutions. 
 5 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 6===
 
 
“It’s your reaction to adversity, not adversity itself 
that determines how your life’s story will develop.” 
 -Dieter F. Uchtdorf-  
 
Dear Friends and Families, 
Keystone Educational Collaborative has been synonymous with a quality specialized program 
that has always supported our exceptional students by meeting their evolving therapeutic and 
educational needs. Over the years, our program has continued to be fortunate to have the 
support of our twelve member districts, our families, and our communities to work 
collaboratively in encouraging our students to never stop the learning process. Quality 
programming such as ours cannot rest on their laurels only but must remain vigilant for our 
students' educational future and therefore must embrace the need for change. 
As one of the many educational representatives from your communities, we have strived to 
develop each child's abilities and have encouraged them to reach towards their fullest 
potential. With that mission for the future, we as an organization are aware that it is essential 
to reflect on ourselves to be able to move forward. By keeping your child’s future at the 
forefront of our mission we as an organization have methodically planned and have taken that 
first pivotal step. 
The pandemic has shed light on the pivotal roles that the entire educational community plays 
and the resilience that we all overcame in the interest of our student’s future. There is no 
denial of the challenges that the past year has had on our students, our families, our members 
and our staff, but the Keystone community persevered and showed the utmost resilience  to 
continue to service and challenge our most neediest students. With our primary mission ahead 
of us we will continue to carry that primary torch and develop the necessary therapeutic and 
educational tools for the future here today. As one of the many team members here within the 
organization I look forward to guiding this organization and your child’s untapped potential into 
that future. 
I hope that this year's annual report highlights the fabric of this organization and the quality 
programming from the collaborative and highlights the directions that we will be heading. All 
of these efforts would not have been possible without the support and dedication of all of the 
families, friends, member districts, communities, and our dedicated staff who are all part of 
the Keystone Educational Community. 
 
Sincerely, 
John J. Demanche,  
M. Ed, BCBA, LABA 
Executive Director 
 
 6 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 7===
 
 
 
 
 
 
School Committee Member 
 Ellen Holmes 
Ashburnham-Westminster 
Regional School District 
 
  
Superintendent Dr. Adam Renda 
Ayer-Shirley Regional  
School District 
 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Steven Meyer 
Clinton Public School 
 
  
 
Superintendent Dr. Robert Jokela 
Fitchburg School District 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Mark Pellegrino 
Gardner Public Schools 
 
 
Superintendent Paula Deacon 
Leominster Public Schools 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. C. Casavant 
Narragansett Regional School 
District 
 
 
Superintendent Brad Morgan 
North Middlesex Regional School 
District 
 
 
Superintendent Dr. Sheila Muir 
Quabbin Regional School District 
 
 
Superintendent Richard Meagher 
West Boylston Public Schools 
 
 
 
Superintendent Thad King 
Winchendon Public Schools 
 
KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLBORATIVE  
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS 
 
 7 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 8===
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
Ashburnham-Westminster RSD Ms. Justine Muir 
Ayer Shirley RSD Ms. Tara Bozek 
 
Clinton Public Schools Ms. Loretta Braverman 
Fitchburg Public Schools Ms. Alicia Berrospe 
Gardner Public Schools Ms. Joyce West 
Leominster Public Schools Ms. Kimberly Woodford 
Lunenburg Public Schools Ms. Julianna Hanscom 
Narragansett RSD Mr. Matt Holloway 
North Middlesex RSD Mr. Brad Brooks 
Quabbin RSD Ms. Kristin Campione 
West Boylston Public Schools Ms. Sherri Traina 
Winchendon Public Schools Ms. Nicole Heroux 
 
Keystone Educational Collaborative 
 Special Education Advisory Board 
 8 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 9===
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Budget 
Superintendent Mr. Thad King  
Superintendent Dr. Steven Meyer 
Superintendent Dr. Mark Pellegrino 
Personnel 
Superintendent Dr. Sheila Muir  
Superintendent Dr. Mark Pellegrino 
Governance 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
Superintendent Mr. Robert Jokela   
Space 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
School Committee Member, Ms. Ellen Holmes 
Superintendent Mr. Robert Jokela   
Warrant Committee 
Superintendent Dr. Kathleen Burnham 
School Committee Member, Ms. Ellen Holmes 
Superintendent Mr. Thad King  
Keystone Educational Collaborative  
 Executive Board Sub-Committees 
 9 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 10===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Executive Director Mr. John J Demanche 
Business Manager Ms. Terri Burchfield 
KEY Program Administrator Ms. Megan Ritter 
KEY Program Administrator Ms. Amy Foley 
Keystone Elementary/Middle 
School Program Administrator 
Ms. Julie Bragg 
Keystone Academy Program 
Administrator 
Mr. Gary MacCallum 
Keystone Education 
 Administration 
  
  10 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 11===
 
 
FINANCIAL AND ENROLLMENT DATA 
The collaborative’s primary revenue source continues to be predominately c aptured 
under the tuition revenue line for the students and the districts that we serve . The 
graphical display represents the organization percentage breakdown of the various 
revenue source s, as well as  the gross revenue coll ected within the fiscal yea r. In 
retrospective comparison to the previous year, despite the fiscal constraints due to a 
health pandemic, the collaborative was still able to increase gross revenue by 2% from 
the previous year.  
 
  
 
 11 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
  
Primary Revenues 
  
 
2020-2021 
  
Primary Revenues 
  
2021-2022 
 
  
Tuition 
  
 $8,636,524 
 Tuition 
  
 $9,041,377 
  
 
Purchased & 
Contract 
Services 
   
 $1,032,974 
  
Purchased & 
Contract 
Services 
  
$701,708 
  
Extended 
Year 
   
 $369,705 
  
Extended 
Year 
   
 $459,040 
  
TOTAL 
  
 $10,039,203 
  
 TOTAL 
  
 $10,202,125 
  
===PAGE 12===
 
 
EXPENSES 
Operationally, the collaborative reallocates over 83% of its gross revenue back into the 
heart of the program, which is the employee salaries/benefits  and th e professional 
development of staffing. The remainder of the collaborative expenses cover operational 
occupancy for our students in the areas of leased educational sites for classrooms, 
which is 7% of revenue.  
 
OPERATIONAL OCCUPANCY 
During the fiscal year, the Collaborative leased a portion of 360 Electric Avenue in 
Fitchburg for the first part of the year.  The Collaborative purchased the building in 
October 2021 and began preparing the building to accept more students through the 
spring and summer of 2022. 
Member Non-member 
Ayer-Shirley $40,000.00 98 Adams Street $    279,403.00 
North Middlesex $180,469.00 2 Shaker Road $      41,882.00 
Winchendon $8,000,00  360 Electric Ave $      30,000.00 
Total $228,469.00 Total $   351,285.00 
 12 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 13===
 
 
STAFFING INFRASTRUCTURE 
The collaborative continues to acknowledge that the heart of the program is based upon 
the quality of staffing and their impact with our students. For this reason , the 
collaborative continues to allocate organizational roles that will have direct correlation 
impact with student outcome. Based upon the graphical display below, 93% of the staffing 
roles have daily direct contact with our student population that we serv e and the 
subsequent staffing percentage support students through ancillary services. This 
number includes the reclassification of 10 paraprofessional positions to more highly 
trained Registered behavior Technicians to provide highly needed classroom support. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative/Support staff 7% 11 
Psychologist/BCBAs/Counselors 7% 11 
Teachers 24% 36 
Paraprofessionals 43% 65 
Allied Health (PT, OT, SLP) 19% 29 
  152 
 13 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 14===
 
 
STAFFING TENURE 
The collaborative’s strategic investment in our students through our investment on 
human capital has not only been correlated by student outcomes but  has also been 
parallel with employee tenure. Based upon the graphical display , the collaborative has 
32% of its employee that have in turn invested over 5 years of service to the mission and 
the philosophy of the program.  
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
Employee Tenure   
< 1 year 34% 52 
1-5 years 32% 49 
5-10 years 9% 14 
10-20 years 14% 21 
20+ years 11% 16 
  152 
 14 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 15===
 
 
EFFECTIVENESS OF PROGRAMS AND 
SERVICES 
The collaborative continues to have a reputation for providing high-quality, cost -
effective programs and services to our member districts. We provide an annual cost 
comparison survey to our Board of Directors to demonstrate  and ensure that we 
continue to be in alignment with our mission . Additionally, the collaborative conducts a 
satisfaction survey of our Special Education Administrators annually to ensure that it 
vision of cost effective does not counterbalance our mission of quality programming. 
Annual survey collects data across our members on how satisfied they are with our 
programs and to determine how responsive the collaborative has bee n in meeting our 
districts and family’s needs.  
 
 
COST COMPARISON 
The collaborative’s special education programs continue to remain highly cost effective 
relative to private special education programs serving students with similar special 
educational needs. Every year the collaborative does a cost comparison with similar 
private special education programs serving similar students located within one hour of 
north central Massachusetts (when possible). Prior to these comparisons being made, 
the collaborative works with the Special Education Advisory Board to ensure that 
comparisons are fair and represe nt private schools that districts would have sent 
students to if the collaborative programs were not available. The following graphical 
display breaks down the daily and annual rate for each of the programs that we have 
within the organization. The compari son programs were identified based upon similar 
population, educational and therapeutic methodologies, and based upon historical 
comparisons. The final graphical display represents the overall cost benefit that our 
members and nonmembers have by referring students to the collaborative. 
   
 15 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 16===
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $483.91 
per day. Keystone Educational Collaborative supplies an annual savings of $26,962. 
 
 
Daily average rate for AAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $93,563.00 
per annual year (180). 
 
 
 
KEY PROGRAM 
 
Cost Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 17===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $332.77 
per day. Keystone Educational Collaborative supplies a savings of $6,752. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL ELEMENTARY 
MIDDLE SCHOOL PROGRAM 
Cost Analysis 
                                                                                                                             
Cost Analysis 
 
 17 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 18===
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daily average rate for MAAPS comparable programs within a 1 hr. radius is $340.99 
per day. Keystone Educational Collaborative supplies an annual savings of $11,970. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEYSTONE ACADEMY PROGRAM  
Cost Analysis 
 18 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 19===
 
 
   
 
 
MEMBER DISTRICTS 
One of the primary purposes of the collaborative is to offer our member districts 
programming that complements and strengthens the member school’s programs to best 
meet the intensive therapeutic and educational needs for students with disabilities. The 
following graphical display represents how all eleven of our members have been able 
to successfully gain access to the collaborative ’s highly specialized programming. This 
data also displays that  the collaborative analysis of our current specialized 
programming design is what the member districts are looking for to complement their 
programming.    
                
 
 19 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
FINANCIAL AND ENROLLMENT 
INFORMATION 
===PAGE 20===
 
 
NON-MEMBER DISTRICTS 
Our specialized programming has been designed to meet the intensive therapeutic and 
educational needs for students with disabilities  and has been the primary focus within 
our members and within the collaborative. Our members are a large component of our 
organization, but as a collaborative we continue to try to supply a least restrictive 
environment for all students with specialized needs. The prior graphical display 
represents the overall 87% of our educational and therapeutic programming and have 
been designated for our member district and their communities. Regardless of town 
boundaries, student’s needs have always been at the forefront of this collaborative ’s 
mission and our members, and as such, we as a collaborative consistently do our best 
to also support students, families from our neighboring nonmembers. During this past 
year, the collaborative has been able to support a quarter of our population for 
nonmembers in hopes to keep their students closer to their own communities.  
  
 
 
 20 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 21===
 
 
PROGRAM BREAKDOWN 
Based upon the needs of our member districts, specialized programming has been 
designed to support students with a wide range of disabilities. The following graphical 
display looks at the overall breakdown of the disabilities that we have supported within 
the program and the breakdown of those students with the programs we have identified. 
The collaborative will continue to analyze and support the member districts on the 
differentiation of the appropriate disability categories to better identify future 
programmatic needs.  
 
PROGRAM ANALYSIS 
The breakdown of disabilities  category has assisted the collaborative  in designing 
programs that are well suited to meet those students' individual needs based upon best 
practice. The following graphical display represents the percentage breakdown of 
students with the above stated disabilities and how they are supported within our 
current programming model . The secondary graphical display represents the average 
student frequency within each designated program. 
 
  
 21 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 22===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“The future influences the present just as much as the 
past.” 
~Friedrich Nietzsche~ 
 
 
 
 22 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 23===
 
 
 
 
KEY PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEYSTONE ACADEMY PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tuition 
Member $ 3,623,440.00 
Non-Member $ 861,089.00 
Total Tuition $ 4,484,529.00 
Budgeted Tuition $ 4,020,562.00 
Difference $ 463,967.00 
Tuition 
Member $ 1,351,036.00 
Non-Member $ 374,974.00 
Total Tuition $ 1,726,010.00 
Budgeted Tuition $ 2,273,400.00 
Difference -$547,390.00 
REVENUE BREAKDOWN 
 23 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 24===
 
 
KEYSTONE ELEMENTARY MIDDLE 
SCHOOL PROGRAM 
 
 
 
EXTENDED EVALUATION 
 
 
 
Tuition 
Member $ 1,980,123.00 
Non-Member $ 850,716.00 
Total Tuition $ 2,830,839.00 
Budgeted Tuition $ 2,737,368.00 
Difference $93,471.00 
Tuition 
Member $ 219,999.00 
Non-Member $ 47,218.00 
Total Tuition $ 267,217.00 
 24 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 25===
 
 
TUITION REVENUE 
Last year the collaborate committed $800,000 towards the capital reserve to purchase 
a new building. $815,000 is now reflected as capital assets in our equity line.   
 
 
At the peak throughout the year the collaborative supported 21 nonmember students 
and supported an average of 43 students for our member districts. 
 
Total Tuition 
Member $ 6,954,599.00 
Non-Member $ 2,086,778.00 
Total $ 9,041,377.00 
Budgeted Tuition $ 9,031,331.00 
Difference $10,046.00 
 25 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 26===
 
 
FINANCIAL POSITION 
The net effect of all the revenues and savings in expenditures is a gain of $ 40,033. This 
is derived from increased enrollments, nonmember tuition charges, and additional 
revenues to support Covid related costs. Savings were recognized through salaries and 
benefit costs for positions that were not filled . Some of the vacancies were covered  
through contract staff, and some could be accommodated due to the number of students 
who opted to attend remotely.  
As the enrollments have been increasing, the Collaborative has been aggressively 
pursuing more permanent options for classroom space and has been building the capital 
reserve fund to enable us to proceed when an opportunity comes available. 
At the end of June 2022, the Collaborative funds were: 
Capital Reserve             $ 832,275 
Capital Assets   $ 1,161,437 
Unrestricted                                   $2,854,454 
Total net position                            $3,716,729 
 
 
 
 26 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 27===
 
 
SPECIAL EDUCATION ADMINISTRATOR 
SURVEY RESULTS 
 
To continue to supply quality services and programming, the collaborative has 
conducted a satisfaction survey of our member district Special Education 
Administrators on an annual basis in September. The reference tool had been expanded 
from previous surveys to ensure accuracy regarding satisfaction from direct service 
providers, as well as satisfaction on the administrative support of the collaborative for 
its members. Since collaboration is essential in the work that we perform feedback from 
Special Education Administrators is critical to determining our overall effectiveness as 
an organization.  Five out of eleven of our member districts Special Education 
Administrators were able to reply to the surve y in which we have posted the results 
below. We acknowledge that the current climate of school reopening plans has hindered 
some of our member’s ability to respond within a timely manner and their feedback will 
be embedded within an alternate format. 
Prior to discussing the findings of the survey, the collaborative would like to comment 
on the recommendations that were supplied within the last year’s survey. 
 
 Recommendations:  
• Psychologists hire to share with the districts 
• More vocational options at HS level. 
 
 
The collaborative acknowledged the overall recommendation for the program, as well 
as the need for the member districts, which had resulted in the collaborative taking the 
following actions across the 202 1-2022 school year . The pandemic did supply some 
limitations on out comes but the collaborative assisted district in conducting district 
evaluations of special educational services and review of district protocols for multi -
tiered supports. Based upon the findings of the evaluation, the collaborative was able to 
supply continued support and training on multi -tiered support and best practice  
protocols for students with special education students and programming.  
In regard to the recommendation to expand the vocational opportunities within the 
collaborative, we were able to bring on board an additional wood shop teacher, a 
Rehabilitation Counselor and a Transition Specialist to assist in bringing their vocational 
 27 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 28===
 
 
expertise and assessment knowledge to the collaborative to continue to guide us in 
supporting students into future vocational opportunities. Currently we have 75% of all 
working age students that either participate and work beyond the school day, volunteer 
work, job sampling, and other vocational opportunities that expose them to future work 
opportunities. 
Unfortunately, the collaborative has thus far been unable to meet the need for specialty 
services such as school psychologists due to a long -standing shortage of qualified 
candidates, further exacerbated by the ongoing pandemic.  Across the school year we 
were able to assist some of our members on cases in which the collaborative school 
psychologist was able to supply support in evaluation or analysis of the data that was 
collected by the district team.  
 
 
 
 
28 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 29===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The summary results of this annual survey indicate that in 2021-2022 there was a high 
level of satisfaction with our special education programs and services and equally 
important, the collaborative continues to be a caring, responsive and effective 
organization that meets the demands of districts for efficient, effective a nd as a local 
educational option for quality services. 
 
QUESTION 1: 
Has Keystone's current programs and services been effective in meeting the needs of 
the students that we serve? 
 
 
 
 
 
SURVEY QUESTIONS  
 29 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 30===
 
 
QUESTION 2: 
Has Keystone's programs and services been cost effective for you as a member? 
 
25% Strongly Agree 
50% Agree 
25% No Opinion 
 
QUESTION 3: 
Do you feel it is important for your district that the Keystone program provides 
services that are located in the local district or in a district nearby? 
 
 
QUESTION 4: 
Do you feel that Keystone staff are experienced, skilled and knowledgeable in meeting 
the needs of the students they serve? 
 
25% Agree 
75% Strongly Agree 
 30 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 31===
 
 
QUESTION 5:  
Do you feel that Keystone's Program Staff are responsive to the student's educational 
needs and to your families’ needs? 
 
 
QUESTION 6: 
Do you feel that Keystone's Program Administrators are responsive to the student's 
educational needs and your families’ needs? 
 
25% Agree 
75% Strongly Agree 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 32===
 
 
QUESTION 7: 
Do you feel that Keystone Administration is responsive to the needs of your district? 
   
 
QUESTION 8: 
What would you suggest that our Keystone's Program Administrators could do 
differently to strengthen your program needs? 
• Unsure. 
• Very satisfied with this, I feel we have a strong relationship. 
• Nothing at this time-happy with everything 
• NA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 33===
 
 
QUESTION 9: 
Do you feel that the Keystone staff have provided services in a caring and respectful 
manner? 
 
 
QUESTION 10: 
How likely would you recommend Keystone Programs to other district administrators? 
 
50% Extremely Likely 
25% Very Likely 
25% Moderately Likely 
 
 
 
 
 33 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 34===
 
 
QUESTION 11: 
Are you currently pleased with the new changes that the collaborative has made, and 
the new services projected in the upcoming year? Please comment. 
 
• Very pleased with each program. 
• Yes 
• NA 
• * I think it would be better for the Executive Director to review new ideas with 
collaborative faculty/ staff and advisory board prior to implementation. It does not 
appear feedback on initiatives is wanted—not sure if that is accurate but that’s my 
perceptions  
• The Advisory committee is a collaborative process between the member districts and the 
collaborative, which informs the direction the collaborative is heading and solicits 
programming needs that the members districts seek. All feedback is from this committee is 
discussed and approved at the Executive Board meetings with member districts 
superintendents. Attendances to advisory meetings will assist the collaborative to further 
hear what members may need designed.   
 
QUESTION 12: 
Can you suggest any services, supports or resources that would strengthen Keystone 
any further? 
• NA 
• None at this time other than magically being able to find school psychologist. 
• More high school vocational opportunities, more community-based programming.  
 
 
SURVEY RECOMMENDATIONS  
• There is such a lack of specialty providers for related services... that's always an 
area to try and expand 
• Short term related services- e.g., school psychologist for when my current staff get 
overloaded 
 
 34 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 35===
 
 
 
 
During the 2021-2022 academic year, the collaborative offered four unique programs 
designed to meet the needs of a specific student population, which complement and 
augment the educational programs and services of the member districts in a cost-
effective manner. 
 
• Keystone Alternative Elementary - Middle School  (gr. K-7), is a Massachusetts 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education approved Public Day Programs. The 
program provides therapeutic and educational programming for students with learning 
disabilities, emotional and behavioral obstacles, and complex mental health issues. 
Students within this program have been identified as needing special education services. 
 
• Keystone Academy (gr. 7-12) is also a Massachusetts Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education approved Public Day Programs. This specialized program provides 
therapeutic and educational and vocational programming for students with learning 
disabilities, emotional and behavior al obstacles, and complex mental health issues. 
Students within this program have been identified as needing special education services. 
 
• Key Program: ICAN, PREP PROGRAM & Learning for Life 
The Key Program serves students who are aged 5 -22 who are educated within public 
school settings and are substantially separate from member districts programming but 
have access to the least restrictive environment. The program serves students who have 
more complex, low incidence, cognitive, communication, related services, behavioral, 
academic, medical, and self -help needs that districts are unable to meet within the 
individual district. All the students in the Key Program have been found eligible for 
special education services 
 
PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS 
 35 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 36===
 
 
• Extended Year Services :  All three of the collaborative’s specialized Special Education 
Programs offer extended year services and programming that are appropriate for the 
specific student’s needs.  
 
• Extended Evaluation Program: The collaborative provides extended evaluation services 
to students who were referred by school districts. Students in the program attend either 
Keystone Academy or Keystone Elementary and Middle School and receive therapeutic 
and educational services as part of the school program. In addition, students in the 
Extended Evaluation Program received evaluation and assessment services as 
identified by the student’s educational team and as requested by the sending district. 
During the extended evaluation period, the collaborative provides weekly updates to the 
sending district as well as the student's family regarding social, emotional, behavioral, 
and academic functioning within the new school environment. Students who completed 
the program received an evaluation package designed to help the district determine the 
appropriate placement and supports for that student. Students referred to the program 
may have previously been found in need of special education services, but others have 
not been found to need such services. While in the program , students are typically 
provided with educational evaluations, psychological, and behavioral evaluations and 
other assessments as determined by the referring team. Students attending the 
Extended Evaluation program are provided with evaluations designed to answer  those 
referral questions brought forth by the sending district. Such evaluations might include 
assessment in the following areas: academic, behavioral, social/emotional, cognitive, 
speech and language, occupational therapy, physical therapy, executive functioning, 
attention, and/or adaptive behavior . The overall goal for the Extended Evaluation 
Programs is to prepare students to return to the least restrictive environments and to 
provide districts with recommendations on how to provide services in such a setting. 
 
      
 
                                                                                                                                                  
          
 36 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 37===
 
 
 
•  
 
 
 
Philosophy 
We believe that every child can learn and acquire the social skills required for success 
in school and in the community. We further believe that each child is unique, and that 
each child has the potential to make progress academically and emotionally. 
 
Mission Statement 
The mission of the KEA Program is to help each child discover his or her strengths, 
improve coping mechanisms and develop social and academic skills. The goal of the 
program is to provide each student with the behavioral and academic skills required to 
return to a less restrictive educational setting. 
 
Student Population 
The KEA Program’s strengths are in its small size and high staff/student ratio. Students 
are placed in multi -age classrooms according to their developmental needs and 
academic skills. Students are referred to the progr am because they demonstrate 
challenging emotional and/or behavioral concerns. Students also present with learning 
and psychological challenges including  but not limited to  ADD/ADHD, Learning 
Disabilities, PTSD, PDD, OCD and Oppositional Defiant Disorder. 
 
  Referrals  
Referrals are made to the Program through the Special Education Directors of the 
sending school districts. Students may be placed within the Program on a long -term 
basis or for an Extended Evaluation Assessment.  
 
Keystone Alternative Elementary- 
Middle School Program 
66 Brookline Road 
Townsend, MA 01469 
 37 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 38===
 
 
Referrals for Keystone Alternative School 2021-2022 
Total referrals                                                              47 
 
Placement Referrals for 2021-2022 
Students enrolled: 2 
 
Extended Evaluation Referrals for 2021-2022 
Students enrolled: 3 
 
Transitions from Placement 2021-2022 
Transition to Other Keystone Program: 6 
Transitions to a more restrictive environment: 1 
Transition back to in-district public school 4 
Transition to lateral program                                       2 
 
Transitions from 45 Day placement 2021-2022 
Transition to long-term placement at Keystone:  9 
Transition to Other Keystone Program: 0 
Transition back to in-district public school: 0 
Transitions to a more restrictive environment: 0 
 
Program Staffing 
Each classroom is staffed with a certified licensed teacher and an appropriate number 
(average = 2) of teacher assistants to allow for a low ratio of students to adults. The 
program staff includes several related service providers: Three School Counselors, 
Occupational Therapist, Speech and Language Therapist, and BCBA. These individuals 
provide individual and/or group therapy to each student, as well as consultation to staff 
based on student need and IEP service delivery . The clinician acts as a  liaison to the 
sending school districts and is available to provide support to parents and guardians. 
 38 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 39===
 
 
The Keystone Elementary program is located within the former Squannacook 
Elementary building in Townsend. We have an onsite Licensed Practical Nurse available 
to our students who is overseen by the collaborative Registered Nurse. Program 
Supervisor has overall administrative operational responsibilitie s for the Keystone 
Elementary- Middle School Program and works collaboratively with the Member District 
Administrative team and the Executive Director of the collaborative.  
 
Academic 
Our elementary-middle school classes are taught in self-contained classrooms, which 
are K-7th grade students . All subject areas and specials are taught by the classroom 
teacher except for health and fitness classes . The middle school program comprises 
students in grades 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th grades. This model provides a homeroom as a 
base classroom and include a rotating schedule for ELA, Math and Science . This model 
helps to prepare students to move from a self -contained classroom model to a model 
that helps students navigate more transitions and challen ges of subject specific 
classrooms. These students continue to receive therapeutic support to meet the 
demands of a less restrictive middle school program.  
All students are taught per their IEP and at their individual instruction level. The 
curriculum of the KEA Program is aligned with the MA Curriculum Frameworks with 
appropriate modifications and/or adaptations to meet the needs of individual students. 
Related services such as speech or occupational therapy are provided according to each 
student’s IEP. Our students also participate in the MCAS process with appropriate 
modifications and/or adaptations for each student.  
 
Behavior Management Social Emotional 
Learning 
Behavior Management at KEA Program  is based on respect for everyone, setting 
appropriate and consistent limits, and reasonable and positive expectations. Students 
will be given as much positive reinforcement as possible to promote prosoc ial 
behaviors. A variety of positive reinforcement strategies are employed. Students receive 
reinforcement and awards on both individual and group levels. 
Each class has a daily behavior chart point system, which enables the student to earn 
points or stick ers for appropriate behaviors in the areas of academics, behaviors and 
adult and peer interactions. If the student has achieved 80% of possible points or stickers 
for the day, he or she may choose a prize/activity. 
 39 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 40===
 
 
If needed, individual behavioral support plans are developed by each child’s team in 
consultation with the Program Supervisor and/or counselor. The services of contracted 
Behavioral Psychologists are available on an as needed basis. Behavioral support plans 
and data are reviewed and updated routinely by the program staff. 
 
Community Based Instruction 
We are continuing to safely develop plans to provide community-based instruction for 
all our students. This initiative will allow the students to learn and perform skills, from 
the beginning, in the natural setting and will eliminate the need for a student to have to 
generalize the skill from only one setting, or with one person, in the real-life setting. 
Although this initiative was limited this academic year due to COVID-19, we were able to 
utilize nature trails on the state forest land behind our school building . We have been 
fortunate to work closely with the Townsend Police Department and the Resource 
Officer, Mark Francis. He visits our program frequently and talks with the students and 
joins in some of our activities . He has coordinated with the Fire Department and other 
community members to have demonstrations of department vehicles and services 
including a police dog.  
As part of our planning and development of CBI, we have been in contact with nearby 
state parks regarding various educational programming that they may be able to offer 
our students . We are excited to have our students take part in acti vities such as: 
snowshoe making, snowshoe hikes, nature walks, tree and animal identification, etc. 
 
                            
 
 
 40 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 41===
 
 
 
 
 
The Keystone Program strives to educate students to possess the social skills required 
for success in school and in the community while creating a learning environment where 
students can feel comfortable and confident so they can be the best version of 
themselves. 
Keystone offers a 180 -day school program in addition to a five -week extended school 
year program. 
 
Description 
Our Keystone Academy  is an educational program that supports students between 
grades of 7-12, who present with significant social, emotional, and learning disabilities. 
These disabilities affect overall ability for academic success or ability to participate 
within the educati onal community available within their home districts. The Keystone 
Academy is a substantially separate school that focuses on the whole child approach  
regardless of the disability category. We acknowledge that some of our children today 
carry a larger emot ional burden than students of the past, and that to navigate life’s 
many challenges they may need more specialized support and guidance than was 
historically provided the goal of this full day program is to assist children in developing 
healthy relationshi ps, skills to self -regulate their emotions, communication skills to 
advocate for themselves and their needs, working toward their full academic potential.  
Within our trauma -sensitive community, Keystone focuses on the areas of safety, 
respect and effective learning as a foundation to participate in the daily routines and 
expectations of student life. 
 
 
Philosophy 
We believe at the Keystone Academy that we need to focus on the whole child approach 
regardless of the disability category . We acknowledge that some of our children today 
carry a larger emotional burden than students of the past, and that to navigate life’s 
many challenges we may need to supply them more specialized support and gu idance 
than what was historically provided. The goal of this full day program is to assist children 
in developing healthy relationships, skills to self -regulate their emotions, 
communication skills to advocate for themselves and their needs, working toward their 
full academic potential.  
 
Keystone Academy 
98 Adams Street, Suite 201 
 Leominster, MA 01453 
41 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 42===
 
 
Mission Statement 
The mission of the Keystone Academy  is to provide an educational experience for 
students with special needs that fosters academic growth, social responsibility, and 
emotional health. Keystone orients its programming and instruction around the three 
areas of safety, respect, and effective learning. 
 
Student Population 
Students are referred to Keystone Academy because of being unsuccessful in general 
education, or as a step -down from a more restrictive setting. Students present with a 
variety of academic, social and behavioral challenges and/or emotional impairments 
requiring instruction in an adult -intensive, highly stru ctured setting with small class 
sizes and consistent support, encouragement and praise. Typical conditions seen in the 
school population include but are not limited to general and specific learning disabilities, 
attention deficit/ hyperactivity disorder, s uicidal ideation, depression, anxiety disorder, 
post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar, oppositional defiant disorder, autism spectrum 
disorder or a combination of these. 
 
Program Staffing 
Keystone Academy  initial staff professional development plan was to continue to 
increase student engagement and time on learning through further development of 
Universal Design Learning skills, utilization of classroom staff in more directed 
instruction of students and providing more opportunities for students to demonstrate 
mastery of concepts and applications. 
Again, with the onset of school closure, staff professional development shifted focus to 
selection and orientation on the use of prog rams and learning tools that would 
effectively deliver remote learning experiences . In order to continue to provide 
individualized remote learning plans, the Keystone Academy staff became proficient in 
using Google classrooms, Zoom, IXL, Discovery Education, ck-12, Read-works, Kurzweil, 
and project -based learning. Additionally, staff assembled learning packets to offer 
students and families. 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 43===
 
 
Referrals  
Referrals are made  to the Program through the Special Education Directors of the 
sending school districts . Students may be placed within the Program on a long -term 
basis or for an Extended Evaluation Assessment.  
Keystone 
Referrals Enrolled Not Enrolled 
Extended 
Evaluation 
Referrals 
Enrolled Not Enrolled 
High 
School 13 4 
2 Referral 
Withdrawn by 
district 
2 – No Available 
Cohort 
3 – Alternative 
Placement  
2- Parental 
Withdrawn  
6 1 
3-district held 
back referral 
2-Alternative 
Placements 
Middle 
School 12 8 
2- Waitlisted 
2-Referral 
Withdrawn 
7 5 
1-Hospitilized 
1-Withdrawn by 
district 
   * Of the Six (6) students enrolled in the Extended Evaluation program this year, all 
remained enrolled at Keystone Academy for the remainder of the academic year. 
Keystone had four (4) seniors graduate with diplomas. Upon graduation, one student 
was working full -time job  at AIS INC, two were in the process of seeking fulltime 
employment, and one enrolled at Mount Wachusett Community College.  
Twenty-Seven (27) students left the program during this school year: 
# Of students Disposition 
8 Returned to district programs 
4 Graduated with a diploma 
6 Family relocated 
5 Transferred to more restrictive setting 
2 Program closer to home (NH) 
1 Charter School 
1 Other collaborative (flight risk) 
 43 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 44===
 
 
Extended Evaluation 
Extended Evaluation:   Program students enrolled  in  the  Evaluation  Program  are 
assigned to Keystone Academy classrooms and participate in daily school programs to 
facilitate assessment while with their peers.   The full-time School Psychologist/Lead 
Clinician continued to be pivotal in evalu ating all students enrolled in in the Extended 
Evaluations and continued  defining the assessment process and oversight of the written 
reports.  
  
Program Services  
Individualized Academic and Behavioral Programming 
Keystone Academy adheres to the delivery of services accommodations and 
modifications described in a student IEP.  
 
The Academy’s tier one behavior system: students are monitored under a generalized 
reinforcement system. The middle school utilizes a daily point earning system as a gage 
for students to determine success. Students earn points for success in the areas of 
effective learning, respect, and school safety. Point sheets are tabulated daily and 
converted into “school do llars” to be spent at a school store or saved up for a higher 
value reward. 
Keystone Academy high school community utilizes a Level System as the fundamental 
structure to promote behavioral, social, and academic growth. The six (6) levels are 
sets of clear standards for an effective student. This system is instrumental in assisting 
students in setting and meeting goals, and in allowing students to monitor their own 
progress on a day-to-day basis in school. 
 
Daily Literacy Instruction 
Keystone Academy continues to devote daily instructional time for the enhancement of 
skills in the areas of listening, reading comprehension, speaking, and writing. Student 
on or near grade-level skills participate in a novel-based curriculum. Struggling readers 
continue to benefit from the Lexia. This program provides the additional skill building in 
the areas of word recognition, vocabulary knowledge, syntactic knowledge and reading 
comprehension. 
Academically, the Academy works closely with the referring districts to assure our high 
school students are taking and succeeding in the required course work and 
requirements to receive a district high school diploma. 
 
 44 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 45===
 
 
Technologically and Standards Based Academic Curriculum 
With the move to our new location, Keystone Academy  was able to acquire existing 
technology equipment (interactive whiteboards, computer network), increase access to 
online learning and bring technology into the classroom.  This allowed the program to 
deliver standards-based curriculum with a wider variety of strategies and programing. 
With the school closure as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the collaborative joined 
the state and the nation in supporting educators to develop and assemble high -quality 
educational materials to provide students with effec tive remote learning resources. 
Simultaneous with selecting educational platforms and programs, came training and 
implementation of distance learning strategies while working with families and 
caretakers to create manageable routines in the home that assur ed safety and well -
being, materials and equipment and predictable on a weekly basis. 
Technologically and standards based academic curriculum is offered throughout the 
year. 
 
Clinical Services 
Two full -time School Counselors provide therapeutic clinical/mental health services 
through individual counseling, social skills groups, mediation, and conflict -
resolution/problem solving skills. All students receive a 1:1 session as well as a social 
skills group weekly based on student need and IEP service delivery. Social Skill groups 
are co-facilitated by the two School Counselors.  
Keystone Academy continued to benefit from ongoing psychiatric 
consultation. 
 
• Student centered clinical reviews increased our knowledge and understanding 
of nature of an individual student and how to develop a clinically informed 
intervention plan. 
• Professional Development and Program development consultation. 
 
Crisis Intervention 
All staff are trained and certified in CPI Nonviolent Crisis Intervention. The program 
supports a hands -off policy unless indicated. Staff focus on identifying students’ 
baseline character/traits, escalation cycles and disability-indicated features as a means 
to intervene early and de-escalate students early. 
  
 
 
 45 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 46===
 
 
Health and Wellness Awareness Education 
In addition to health classes being offered, Keystone Academy also offers a variety of 
opportunities for physical education . In seasonally good weather, Keystone Academy 
visits local parks for hiking and exploration.  
We have an outdoor area with a basketball hoop for movement breaks and pick -up 
games. Through memberships at the local YMCA and affiliation with the Boys and Girls 
Club of Fitchburg and Leominster we have sites in colder weather to offer sports, 
exercise and workouts. 
After a two-year lapse, we again were able to partner with Making Opportunity Count 
(MOC) whose staff provide health education classes that are important to youth in our 
care.  
 
 
 
 
Functional Life Skills  
To prepar e students for post -high school pursuits, Keystone Academy  provides 
instruction to assure a successful transition to college, career/trade training, world of  
work and/or independent living. Curriculum in Career Education and Math is geared to  
acquisition of financial literacy, including personal finance and budgeting skills. 
Development of student mastery in the area of activities of daily living are supported  
thought cooking opportunities, meal planning and preparation; community exploration 
though field trips to local establishments, restaurants, reading a bus schedule planning 
a local trip utilizing public transportation. 
 
 
 
 46 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 47===
 
 
Vocational Skills Development  
This year the Career Education Teacher position was enhanced to Transition Specialist 
(requiring the DESE approved Transitional Specialist endorsement). In addition to 
the  classes, there is a greater emphasis on career exploration, job search and 
application, the development of positive work attitudes and work -related employability 
skills. More time is spent in the community exploring jobs and resources available for 
post high school pursuits. 
 
 
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 48===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Philosophy 
Our philosophy is that your child will experience a year full of success in the following 
ways: 
Through specialized instruction, all children will experience growth across the following 
areas:  
• Self-advocacy skills necessary to communicate effectively and at their highest level 
of complexity 
• Self-reliance skills necessary to be as independent as possible. 
• Academic skills, including l iteracy and mathematics that challenge in an attainable 
manner. 
• Endurance and attitude necessary to participate in meaningful, productive work. 
 
Mission Statement 
It is the mission of Key Programs, to partner with parents, professionals from sending 
school districts, and members of the community, to develop confident, capable, and self-
motivated learners who are ready to return to a less restrictive school setting. The Key 
Program orients its programming and instruction around the three focuses of safety, 
respect, and effective learning. 
The Key Programs promotes, supports, and celebrates the ideals of learning and critical 
thinking as lifelong pursuits and challenges students to acquire the skills necessary to 
meet the changing technical, social, and economic demands of our world . Further, it is 
the mission of the Key Programs to develop individuals who will respect the diversity of 
race, color, age, gender, religion, sexual orientation, or mental challenges.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
 
 
                          
                         Ayer Shirley Regional High School    
                                   141 Washington Street 
                                           Ayer, MA 01432                                            
KEY Program 
  
KEY Program 
360 Electric Avenue 
Fitchburg, MA 01420 
Leominster  
98 Adams Street, Suite 107 
Leominster, MA 01453 
 
 
Lura-White Elementary School 
34 Lancaster Road 
Shirley, MA 01464 
 
 Winchendon 
3 Memorial Drive 
Winchendon, MA 01475 
 48 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 49===
 
 
Student Population 
The KEY Program  continue to provide specialized services to students with special 
needs, in a public day school setting. Students present with profound deficits that impact 
their ability to function independently and make effective progress in the general 
education setting. All referrals made to these classrooms come through the child-study 
process where it was determined that the student required a more intensive educational 
setting, to make effective progress. 
Student’s present with a variety of academic, social, and behavioral challenges. As some 
students are academically competitive, a large majority of students  present with 
significant delays in cognition, self - regulation skills, motor skill deficits, a s well as  
expressive and receptive language delays. In addition, some students present with 
significant medical needs that require direct nursing support throughout the school day. 
Students require a high level of adult supervision and assistance to keep them safe and 
implement all their educational goals and objectives. 
Standard diagnosis Include: 
• Autism Spectrum Disorders 
• Developmental Delay 
• Down Syndrome 
• Intellectual Disability 
• Rare Genetic Disorders (Charge Syndrome, Wolf Hirschhorn 
Syndrome, Fragile X etc.) 
• Multiple Disabilities (Autism/ADHD/Sensory Processing, 
Autism/Spina, Bifida/Intellectual, Autism/ODD) 
 
 
 
 49 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 50===
 
 
Program Staffing 
Each classroom is staffed with a certified teacher and an appropriate number of 
paraprofessionals to allow for a low ratio of students to adults (2:1). The staff that 
support the KEY programs are professionally licensed, highly qualified, CPI certified and 
endlessly committed to our students and their families . Additionally, the KEY program 
has dedicated job coaches who assist the students in gaining vocational skills needed 
for life after graduation. 
 
DESE licensed staff 
• 2 Administrator 
• 14 Teachers 
 
Professionally licensed staff 
• 5 Therapists, 3 SLPs, 2 OTs, 2 PTs 
• 1 Therapy Assistant, 2 COTAs, 1 PTA 
• 1 Family Support Coordinator 
• 5 (1 RN & 4 LPN); plus 7 agency nurses 
• 1 Rehabilitation Counselor 
• 1 BCBA 
 
Highly Qualified Support Staff 
• 32 Paraprofessionals 
• 2 Job Coaches 
• 1 Program Secretary 
 
Referrals  
Referrals to the school are made by Directors of Special Education, Educational Team 
Leaders (ETL) or Out-of-District Coordinators from the student’s home school district’s 
Special Education Department. Upon receipt of the referral package (including all testing 
and IEP), a KEY Program Administrator will contact  the district. If the student appears 
to be appropriate for the school, an appointment will be made to observe the student in 
his/her current educational setting, as well as an appointment for the student’s 
parent/guardian to visit the KEY Program and participate in an intake interview . The 
referring school personnel, the KEY Program staff, and the student’s current Team 
members, together with the parents/guardians, make the final placement decision 
 50 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 51===
 
 
regarding enrollment. All students must h ave a current IEP and provide immunization 
records before starting at the KEY Program. 
 
Placement Referrals for 2021-2022 
Students enrolled:      10 
Parents chose another program    3 
Parents declined intake:     7 
Programs were full (waiting list)    1 
 
Transitions from Placement 2021-2022 
Back to district:      6 
Transition to another Keystone Program   0 
Transition to another Collaborative Program  0 
Transition to a more restrictive environment  3 
Graduated/Transition to adult services:   3 
Moved Out-of-State      2  
 
 
Program Services  
Individualized academic and behavioral programming 
The KEY Program is an intensive language based program that utilizes applied behavior 
analysis (ABA) in conjunction with an interprofessional collaborative practice.  Each 
classroom utilizes various instructional techniques including, discrete trials, small 
groups, hands-on and multi-sensory learning experiences, behavioral modification, and 
positive behavioral supports suitable for children with special needs. Daily living skills 
are incorporated within the context of the daily routine to teach safety, self-awareness, 
and independence. All students receive in struction that is individualized, aligning with 
their Individualized Education Plans, in a low student to teacher ratio environment (2:1). 
Students in the KEY Programs participate in the MCAS process with appropriate 
modifications and/or adaptations for each student , either in a computer-based format 
or via the MCAS-Alt Portfolio.  Possible modifications to MCAS computer-based testing 
include shorter  periods with frequent breaks, small group administration, test 
administrator reading directions, and tracking for test items and scribing. Students who 
are unable to participate in a traditional pencil -to-paper test are expected to complete 
an MCAS Alt Portfolio Assessment. 
 
 
 51 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 52===
 
 
Related Services  
Related services refers to developmental, corrective, and other supportive services that  
are required for a student with a disability to succeed in education ; services include  
speech-language pathology and audiology services, physical and occupational therapy, 
orientation and mobility services, and medical services for diagnostic or evaluation 
purposes.  
The KEY Program currently utilizes an integrated therapy model to deliver therapeutic 
services to students. Integr ated therapy incorporates the same therapy approach as 
“push-in” but adds additional structure to the relationships with teachers and overall 
process. In this service delivery model, supports are provided in the classroom, where 
the student is receiving instruction. Therapy is provided in a less restrictive setting and 
does not remove the student from the classroom or instruction. It also helps students 
to generalize their skills beyond the pull -out therapy setting and provides generalized 
benefits for all students and their teaching staff. 
Related services also include school health services and school nurse services, social 
work services in schools, and parent counseling as well as training. 
Keystone related services providers are fully l icensed to practic e in the state of 
Massachusetts and are integral members of the educational team s. Related services 
are provided per each student’s IEP. 
 
Behavior management and social emotional learning 
Each classroom teaching team meets weekly to discuss student progress toward 
educational targets as well as positive behavioral changes. Classroom data is analyzed 
and reviewed to determine if any adjustments need to be made to a student’s academic 
instruction or behavioral protocol. 
Behavior management within the KEY programs is tailored to the individual child, with 
positive expectations put in place along with reinforcement to shape future behavior. A 
variety of reinforcement strategies are employed, inc luding token economies, self -
monitoring systems, and various contingencies. 
Individual behavior support plans are developed and utilized for each student, and data 
is reviewed routinely by the program staff and the in-program board certified behavior 
analyst (BCBA). 
 
 
 
 
 52 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 53===
 
 
Community based instruction: 
The KEY programs offer vocational training activities that support the development of a 
positive work attitude, job skills and work endurance. These activities include a mail run 
service between program sites, as well as community-based opportunities at locations 
including Tiny’s Restaurant, Nashoba Park Assisted Living, Cell Treats at Phoenix Park, 
the Perkins School Laundry, Ayer Police Station, Pit Stop Barber Shop, and Spanish 
American Club. 
Additionally, students access the local community to develop greater safety skills, 
community awareness, social exposure and career awareness. 
 
 
 
 
                       
 
 
 
 53 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 54===
 
 
 
Services and Supports  
To fulfill our mission of meeting the ongoing needs of our member districts the 
collaborative provided several services to districts that complement and strengthen 
district programs and supports. The collaborative has  assisted districts by providing 
cost effective, long term and short term related services, offered extended year 
services, coordinated a virtual learning effort through the Edgenuity platform, provided 
home supports through the utilization of a telepresence learning robots (BEAM robots), 
helped to fiscally manage the Footsteps to Brilliance early literacy innovation zone, 
providing savings through a cooperative purchasing agreement for INTERFACE mental 
health referral services, providing cooperative purchase and management of Tobi Board 
maker and providing ongoing, high quality, professional development. 
 
Staff Training and Consultation 
The collaborative staff continue to be recognized and utilized for their expertise within 
a variety of different disciplines by area school districts. During the 20 21-2022 school 
year, the staff have formally provided support to our members in the areas of, 
consultation and evaluations to district staff on verbal de -escalation and physical 
management techniques, work ing with paraprofessionals and utilizing the ACES 
Curriculum tool for goal development task analysis and data collection, supplied a 
certifiable curriculum to allow staff the opportunity to become Registered Behavioral 
Technicians, support and consult to d istrict experts in the areas of AAC needs, 
educational based adaptive equipment, as well as family based supports and 
trainings.  The collaborative has also supplied their member districts with clinical and 
academic consultation by Board Certified Behavior Analysis and school Psychologist on 
individual student needs and larger program reviews.  
 
Extended Year Services 
Many of the students that the collaborative serves require extended year services. In 
order to maximize efficiencies and provide for a greater range of activities the 
collaborative brings students from our KEY programs and students from our districts 
together in the Ayer/Shirley Schools for a five-week summer program. Students in our 
Academy Program and our KEA Programs attended summer programs in our Fitchburg 
and Townsend buildings, respectively. The programs run from Monday through Thursday 
and provide ongoing academic instruction, related services, and fun, yet functional, 
activities.  
COLLABORATIVE PROGRAM SERVICES 
 54 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 55===
 
 
The collaborative’s Extended Year Services are provided to any student from our 
districts who require the services of our pr ograms and meet the criterion for 
acceptance, regardless of whether they attend the collaborative program during the 
school year or not. Rates for the Extended Year Program are based on the day rates, 
prorated to a shorter day and are more than competitive  with private schools and 
providers. 
 
Related Services 
The collaborative continues to provide related services to member districts in areas 
including, physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, vision and orientation 
and mobility, BCBA, and psychological/ educational evaluations services. The 
collaborative related service staff, working in local districts, are able to supplement 
district related service providers, cover for short -term needs and, in some cases, 
provide all required therapy services for a specific related service required by the 
district. Over the course of the 2021-2022 school year collaborative related service 
providers worked in districts including Ayer -Shirley, Leominster, Gardner, Fitchburg, 
Narragansett, Clinton and Winchendon. 
 
Virtual Education 
The collaborative continues to c oordinate the Edgenuity Virtual Learning platform for 
districts participating in the regional virtual learning effort. The collaborative takes care 
of the billing with Edgenuity based on district usage and facilitates meetings and 
trainings with the designated district administrators. During the 20 21-2022 school year 
251 students took advantage of Edgenuity courses. 
By participating in the collaborative sponsored cooperative purchasing agreement with 
Edgenuity participating districts were able to offer courses they might not have the 
economy of scale to offer individually and were able to retain students who might loo k 
at leaving the district because of unique academic requirements such as athletes 
participating at a level requiring them to be absent for parts of the normal school 
calendar. In addition, districts have been able to give staff experience teaching in a 
virtual environment and are acquiring the skills needed to manage larger numbers of 
students participating in virtual education. 
 
 
 
 
 55 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 56===
 
 
Edgenuity: Number of Students in attendance per semester 
 
Edgenuity 2021-2022 
Ashburnham/Westminster  
8 semester courses 
6 full-year courses  
$2,000.00 
$3,000.00 
Ayer/Shirley  145 semester courses  $36,250.00 
Clinton  
1 quarter course 
45 semester courses  
$75.00 
$11,150.00 
Gardner  35 semester courses  $8,750.00 
West Boylston  
18 semester courses 
2 full-year courses   
$4,500.00 
$1,000.00 
    $66,725.00 
 
 
Footsteps to Brilliance/North Central Early Literacy Innovation Zone  
Over the course of the 2021-2022 school year the collaborative, continued our work with 
a number of member and non-member districts located along the Rt. 2 corridor and with 
the United Way/Community Foundation of North Central MA to support an Early Literacy 
Innovation Zone using th e Footsteps to Brilliance (F2B) early literacy application. The 
collaborative continued to act as the fiscal agent on behalf of participating districts and 
enabled those districts to access grant funding from the United Way/Community 
Foundation. This funding from the United Way/Community Foundation paid for half of the 
cost for a five-year contract to provide the F2B application to the districts and their 
respective communities. Districts that participated in the funding through the 
collaborative included Clinton, Gardner, Narragansett, Winchendon, Lunenburg and 
Leominster. The collaborative was pleased to act on behalf of these districts to reach  
children and families in pre-k through grade 3 living in those communities and continues 
to look forward on analyzing the data collected to guide our members on the  
effectiveness of these programs. 
The Early Literacy Innovation Zone is an innovate approach to increasing early literacy 
skills on a regional basis and could serve as a model for other regions across the 
country. This five-year project involved a commitment from districts and the United 
Way/Community Foundation of North Central to utilize an easy to access, multilingual, 
and effective technology application to improve reading skills in young children. By 
partnering with  the United Way/Community Foundation the collaborative was able to 
save participating districts almost $2,500,000 on the cost of F2B licenses over the 
course of the five-year United Way grant.  
 56 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 57===
 
 
PROGRESS TOWARD MEETING THE 
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE 
AGREEMENT  
 
Improving the academic achievement of all students in the least restrictive 
environment: 
The collaborative continues to provide programs that offer rigorous curriculum and 
instructional practices that are tailored to meet the unique needs of each student and to 
comply with all elements of a student’s Individual Educational Plan (IEP). The 
collaborative services are provided by appropriately licensed and trained staff in the 
least restrictive environment as determined by the student’s IEP team. The 
collaborative’s KEY programs are located in public school settings and all students are 
provided opportunities for interaction with students in the least restrictive environment, 
general education settings as appropriate for the student’s needs. Students in the KEA 
programs are provided educational and counseling services to provide them with the 
skills and knowledge required to return to less restrictive settings whenever possible . 
Keystone students participate in MCAS or MCAS Alternative Assessments with 
accommodations as determined by their educational teams. The collaborative continues 
to develop behavioral, transition and integration strategies to ensure that Keystone 
students more successfully benefit from educational services in less restrictive 
settings. The collaborative conti nues to support the North Central MA Early Literacy 
Innovation Zone which makes early literacy applications, through the Footsteps to 
Brilliance program, available to all children and families in the participating districts. 
The Keystone 2020 budget continues to include funds for a Transition Specialist to assist 
students to transition into least restrictive environments and an Integration Specialist 
to assist students in the KEY Program to take advantage of opportunities for inclusion 
with peers in the public-school buildings. Both positions continue to be developed to 
ensure the success for our students as well as the opportunity for our member districts 
being successful in receiving such students.  
 
 
 
 57 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 58===
 
 
To develop and offer a variety of quality professional development 
opportunities to general and special education teachers, paraprofessionals, 
school administrators and related service providers that are designed to 
enhance instructional practices:  
Each year the collaborative Professional Development is offered based on the needs of 
our member districts and the collaborative’s staff, as identified by the Advisory Board 
(Special Education Administrators), our staff and by our Board of Directo rs 
(Superintendents). In the past year, the collaborative  offered two legal trainings 
provided by an experienced and respected school attorney, a training on effective 
strategies for dealing with anxiety in the educational setting, training on the ACES 
curriculum package and numerous restraint training to the collaborative’s staff by one 
of four CPI certified instructors. The collaborative continues to remain responsive and 
proactive in addressing the specialized training needs of our member districts. The 
collaborative is  a member of the Massachusetts Organization of Educational 
Collaboratives (MOEC) and continually provides information to member districts on 
professional development offered by a range of other collaboratives in the region that 
are often jointly planned by MOEC regional committees. 
The collaborative  continues to partner with the Federation for Special Needs 
Recruitment and T raining Support Center (RTSC), LEA Special Education Surrogate 
Parent Recruitment Training Project which allowed Keystone staff and staff from our 
member districts to attend RTSC trainings at a discounted rate.  
 
To provide other educationally related programs, supports and services to 
our member districts and surrounding communities that are of high quality 
and cost effective, as directed by the Keystone Board of Directors:  
 
The collaborative continues to provide educationally related programs, supports and 
services by offering both public day programs, The KEA Programs both serving students 
with social emotional and learning disabilities, and substantially separate programs in 
public schools, the KEY Program for students who are on the autism spectrum or for 
students who have significant intellectual or developmental disabilities. The 
collaborative continues to offer extended year services for students. The collaborative 
provides extended evaluation services at all of the programs.  
The collaborative has begun to explore how to best support our districts as they respond 
to the complex needs of students with significant mental health needs . T he Board 
approved two new positions for the 20 21-2022 school year, a Transition Specialist who 
 58 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 59===
 
 
will work with di stricts to help successfully transition students to and from the most 
appropriate placements and an Integration Specialist who will assist the collaborative 
classroom teachers in the KEY Program and district staff to integrate students with 
significant developmental and behavioral issues into general education classrooms.  
The collaborative remains flexible and responsive in meeting the needs of our districts 
by providing high quality professional development offering that are local, are cost 
effective and are presented by knowledgeable and respected experts. We have been 
able to meet the needs for both short- and long-term related service providers of our 
districts and provide licensed, skilled and experienced physical therapists, teachers of 
the visually impaired and orientation and mobility therapists. The collaborative continues 
to offer access to “telepresence learning devices” (robots) to districts for short term use 
and/or purchase for students who are unable to attend school but want to maintain a 
“presence” in their home school. VGOs telepresence learning devices (robots) have 
allowed students who were unable to atte nd school due to illness to participate in 
classroom activities by live telepresence. The current health pandemic has opened a 
new extensive technological opportunity to our districts which unfortunately has made 
these devices somewhat obsolete but an area that the collaborative will explore further 
to support the members and their students. 
 
  
 59 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 60===
 
 
PROGRESS TOWARD STRATEGIC PLAN 
 
“The Strategic Plan will position the collaborative in such a way that we can create new 
opportunities for growth, remain financially stable and strong and continue to be 
responsive to our students, their families and our districts.”  
This Collaborative Strategic Plan is a blueprint for ensuring that the c ollaborative 
continues and expands its role as a dynamic and flexible organization in responding to 
member district needs. Planning activities took place between April -October 2016. The 
primary objective of the Executive Board and administrative team throu ghout the 
planning process was to ensure that stakeholders and member public school districts 
had ample opportunity to provide input into the plan design as well as the final product. 
Focus group sessions with the Executive Board, Advisory Board, Keystone staff, 
administrators and Steering Committee allowed for individual, small group and large 
group participation. The focus groups provided both qualitative and quantitative data 
which developed into 5 Strategic Target Goal Areas approved by the Executive Board. 
 
1. Program Development and Strengthening  
• a. Strengthen S/E and mental health supports/programs  
• b. Create a continuum of supports for medically fragile students  
2. Facilities  
• a. New location for ED/BD programs  
• b. Review 3-year space options for Central Office and Public Day 
Programs  
• c. Explore purchasing or leasing facilities, Capital Planning  
3. Marketing and Branding  
• a. Further development of the Keystone Brand  
• b. Development of strategic marketing plan  
• c. Update the Keystone website  
4. Staff Development  
• a. Seek and retain high quality staff  
• b. Provide high quality, research-based professional development  
5. Inter-district Professional Development  
• a. High quality, research-based PD  
• b. Create collaborative PD Coordinator position  
• c. Create on-going inter-district PD Advisory Committee  
 
 
 60 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 61===
 
 
Goal 1: 
In February of 2017, the collaborative formed a Mental Health study committee consisting 
of district staff, a consulting psychiatrist, a school psychologist, a representative from 
the Department of Mental Health and the collaborative staff involved in our extended 
evaluations and alternative programs. Over the course of the 2018-2019 school year the 
MH study groups recommendations were presented to the Board and in the Spring of 
2019 the Board approved the addition of a Transition Specialist and an Integration 
Specialist posit ions to be added to the FY 2020 budget. Job descriptions for both 
positions were developed based on recommendations from the group. 
The MH study group identified the INTERFACE Referral Service of William James College 
as an organization capable of providing supports to families in our districts and Keystone 
entered into an agreement with INTERFACE and five districts, Leominster, Lunenburg, 
North Middlesex, Ayer/Shirley, Fitchburg and Winchendon to provide referral supports 
to those districts and the communi ties they serve . The collaborative was able to save 
each participating district  over by offering to provide regional support for INTERFACE 
outreach in the communities.  
Quarterly analysis was conducted on the 2-year project and the investment directly 
correlated with a significant percentage of investment going to the students of the 
community that were serviced by our members in addition to other community 
members.  As the pandemic and the increasing need for mental health support has 
exhausted many resources that districts have utilized such as Interface, it has opened 
the door for new opportunities to further strengthen the current system through other 
vendors. The collaborative will continue to work with member districts on expanding 
various different vendors to support their needs.  
The collaborative’s goal in creating a continuum of services for our medically fragile 
population has made significant headways in the purchase of a building in Fitchburg, 
MA, which has availed the opportunity to design classrooms and allocate resources to 
support this specific population of students. The collaborative has also worked in being 
able to solicit some state-of-the-art technology in the form of a robotic gait trainer to 
assist some of the medically fragile students that have limitations in ambulating and or 
learning the motor process of ambulation due to their disabilities.  
 
 
 
 
 61 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 62===
 
 
 
https://www.telegram.com/story/news/local/the-item/2022/10/13/keystone-
educational-collaborative-robot-teaches-students-how-walk/8237052001/ 
 
 
 
 
 62 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 63===
 
 
Goal 2:  
During the 2019-2020 school year the collaborative conducted an analysis on the 
growing demand for students entering into the high school age grades and the demand 
to differentiate the growing population of students with cognitive impairments and their 
needs for academic and vocational exposure. The data indicated that the growing 
number of internal students within our Key Program: “Learning for Life Program,” which 
supported students predominantly in the area of entry -mid academic and life skills did 
not represent the increasing referrals of mild to moderate cognitively impaired students 
that still required a robust academic program, as well as marketable vocational 
exposure. The Board of Directors approved the conversion of the lower half of the 98 
Adams Street program to be designed as the “PREP” Program to support those student’s 
needs. Formal requests  and licensure  had been submitted and approved by the 
Department of Secondary and Elementary Education on July 20, 2020. 
During the 2021-2022 school year, the collaborative was able to procure its first property 
within one of our member districts. The centralized location in Fitchburg MA, is a single 
level 24k sq ft. structure that was a great opportunity for the KEY Program to expand 
and grow. The opportunity allowed the collaborative opportunity to consolidate financial 
and human capital resources by limiting the previous 6 sites down to 3 sites with over 
75% of the student census located at the new site. The program can expand overall 
students it supports, supplies us the opportunity to support some of most significantly 
impacted students with more long term educational and therapeutic care.  
 
 
 
 
 63 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 64===
 
 
If you build it, they will come… 
The collaborative’s desire with the Board’s support to strategically plan for the 
collaborative long-term future continues to require c urrent analysis  of procuring  an 
additional educational site . Currently, we are conducting a cost-benefit analysis of 
procuring a permanent site for 1-2 of our programs within the local community. Leasing 
options within our members vs. remodeling or long-term commercial lease is currently 
underway within the collaborative. The current health pandemic has resulted in the 
accessibility in commercial and specialty properties which will avail the collaborative 
and members the opportunity to have options that they can call their own. Based upon 
the graphical display below our primary budget lease expen ditures are within our 
member sites, but two components of our programs are within one single separate site. 
If the collaborative were to combine two of our comparable programs under one roof 
(Keystone Programs) that would take into consideration 78% of the lease revenue that 
could go towards a permanent location , which in turn will supply the collaborative and 
all of its members a cost-effective quality program that has the opportunity to support 
more students and families. The collaborative will work towards str ategically planning 
these options within the upcoming fiscal year.  
 
 
Goal 3: 
In December of 2019, with the departure of the former Executive Director, Dr. Richard 
Murphy, supplied the new Executive Director, John Demanche the opportunity to analyze 
all the data and look at the program and its features. Based upon all the data colle cted 
and notes reviewed, the previous rebranding team was brought back together for the 
new proposal as “Keystone Educational Collaborative .” In March 2020, the Executive 
Board approved the rebranding  to the newly identified name . Formal request and 
modification of the Amended Agreement was submitted and approved by the Department 
of Elementary and Secondary Education in July 2020. Keystone Educational 
Collaborative’s approved mission  and name has redefined the program and aligns the 
direction of the organization for the future. This change has resulted in the collaborative 
taking the opportunity to  embrace change and to redefine its programs names, 
differentiate some of the programs to be reflective of what we do versus labeled as a 
disability that we serve, as well as the opportunity to redefine and shape our websites 
so that it was not only user friendly from an organizational perspective, but was user 
friendly for our members and the families that we serve.  
 64 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 65===
 
 
All formal applications were submitted to the Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education and were approved as of July 2020. The new site was launched on August 1 
which reflected the change for the future as Keystone Educational Collaborative.  
Mission 
 “to unite our communities together and to strengthen each individual child’s growth for 
the future by locking -in the foundation of their potential with the educational tools of 
today” 
 
Goals 4 & 5: 
Continued support across the 2021-2022 school year, with all the changes within the 
infrastructure of the organization, analysis was conducted on the staff development and 
the district professional development opportunities, while still staying within the 
philosophy of “quality and cost effective”. The findings of the analysis indicated that for 
the organization to accomplish these goals that a robust internal infrastructure would 
need to be created to support the program and the  members more consistently and 
along a unified continuum of content. During the year, the collaborative brought together 
a team of experts that have supplied and supported our members on district and 
program base scales with vision to expand and support further district needs within the 
upcoming years. The collaborative has brought on the following: 
BCBA: The clinical knowledge of these members , who have been systematically hired 
and identified at a variety of levels  (e.g., teachers, consultants, and paraprofessionals 
undergoing the BACB requirements, have opened up an opportunity to not only support 
our students internally within the program, but has been utilized by our members for 
program review and individual consultatio n. The team has created a RBT approved 
course sequence through the BACB which has trained up some of our paraprofessionals 
to acquire this licensure with a 90% exam pass rate. This course sequence content is 
available for our members to utilize with their staff and a secondary course is under 
development for teacher based non-licensed course. The creation of this program has 
maintained staff retention for staff that want to professionally grow and develop as well 
as supply quality staff support to our students and families. 
DPT: The collaborative brought on bo ard a doctoral level Physical Therapist to oversee 
internal and contracted services with an overarching drive to ensure best clinical 
practice in the field of physical therapy to support students in the educational 
environment. Current analysis indicated that the collaborative was identical to the norm 
in most educational environments in the field, which indicated that the therapy service 
providers varied based upon the various degree requirements of licensure over time. By 
bringing on board this level of a member, the collaborative is underway to supplying a 
consistent methodological treatment best on clinical practice to our members that 
 65 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 66===
 
 
contract these services, while also supplying those members within the department the 
professional development of curren t treatments. The collaborative will continue to 
support research on best practice and will be supporting our members by having the 
contracted DPT become certified as a MOVE Curriculum instructor who will be able to 
supply our members and families with a n empirically based curriculum to support 
students with physical disabilities to be supported within the least restrictive 
environment.  
School Psychologist: The collaborative brought on board an internal school psychologist 
role to assist with students’ referrals for Extended Evaluations and for re -evaluation 
purposes for students placed within the program. This resource has supplied further 
educational and social emotional support for our students and districts as means to 
supply what is best practice i n educational research. The collaborative was very 
systematic in this hiring process and selection and was able to acquire someone that 
not only had expertise within their own discipline, but also abilities to head up the SEI 
curriculum that was acquired b y the collaborative that was researched based and 
CASEL approved (Positive Actions). This collaborative member has also been able to 
supply a level of consistency and methodological framework for our counselors in 
supporting our students in collaboration with Dr. Wilkins, the collaboratives contracted 
a psychiatrist. This systematic foundation has been established as we continue to 
develop the Transition Program Coordinator role to best service the students when they 
are ready to be reunited with their sending districts/ communities. 
The collaborative has been appreciative of the support of the member districts in the 
procuring of these highly specialized positions and in turn the collaborative has and will 
continue to expand member ’s exposure to quality pro fessional development and 
support. In projection for the future , the collaborative is currently working with TUFTS 
University in designing a capstone program for the ir new doctoral program in 
Occupational Therapy. This newly designed program will supply a more robust 
curriculum and occupational therapy staff that will be aligned with current research 
based best practices that align with educational environments . The collaborative has 
also expanded its AAC and SLP capacity to evaluate students as demand increases with 
the increase in student with disabilities needs increase in this area . The collaborative 
also continues to work in collaboration with Fitchburg State University as an educational 
site for teachers obtaining their licensure in Severe Disabilities in hopes to retain quality 
educators within our member communities.  
The health pandemic has brought to light many shortages that our member districts 
have within specialty discipline, and we will continue to supply our efforts to bring 
those services within those areas to our communities.  
 66 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 67===
 
 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S SUMMARY 
 
Keystone Collaborative has been a staple as an educational resource for over 40 years 
servicing our communities, our member districts and our students and families. As 
everything in life changes it is inevitable that we too as an organization must adapt and 
change. As an educational institution either we embrace change with the times, or we 
become obsolete. The latter is not an option. This collaborative has been established 
with the conscious decision to embrace the need for change and the need to evolve 
based upon the constantly changing needs of the students that we serve. In a relatively 
short period of time as the new Executive Director, even with the presence of a health 
pandemic upon us, this organization has continued steadfast on its mission despite 
everything going on around us. We will continue to take on the challenge, to continue 
to pass on the quality educational torch that has been established and will continue to 
redefine and shape the foundation for the future.  
 
Keystone Educational Collaborative remains committed to improving the academic, 
social, emotional, and self-help skills of our students, by preparing them to live 
meaningful and productive lives within their own communities. We will continue to 
embrace the foundations that have been laid by our predecessors in the past and will 
continue to mold and restructure as we move towards supporting our students for the 
future.  
 
 
John Demanche, M. Ed, BCBA, LABA 
Executive Director 
Keystone Educational Collaborative 
www.keystonecollaborative.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 67 ANNUAL REPORT | KEYSTONE EDUCATIONAL COLLABORATIVE 
===PAGE 68===
 
 
 
 
 
