===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS
3000
TRANSPORTATION 3600
TRANSPORTATION:  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 3601OF THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Thepurposeof schooltransportationis to getpupilsfromhometo schoolandbackin anefficient,safe,andeconomicalmanner. Otherpurposesincludetheprovisionoftransportationforacademicfieldtripsindirectsupportofthecurriculum,transportationforthesupportoftheco-curricular program (athletics, music, drama, and the like).
The Lunenburg PublicSchoolswilltransportall GradesK-6gradestudents. Grades7-12studentswillneedtoregisterbythedistrictdeadlinedate(May1st)toreceivetransportation.ThedistrictwillmakethetransportationformavailablebyApril1stviaemailandonthedistrictandschoolwebsites.TheLunenburgPublicSchoolsdoesnotprovidetransportationforpre-schoolstudents unless this service is required by the student’s Individualized Education Plan (IEP).
1. Bus Application: Students’ families wishing for theirstudents to be bussed shallsubmit a bus application.a. Pursuant to state law and regulation all students K-6 living more than 2miles from school are entitled to bussing. All studentsin Grades K-6 shallbe bussed upon application.  A bus application must be submitted for eachstudent seeking bussing by the district deadline date (May 1st) to notifythe district of the need for bussing.Failure tosubmit a bus applicationbefore May 1st shall result in the student being placed on a waiting list inorder of receipt.b. Because of the complexity of bus routes, students on the waiting list shallbe placed no sooner than 60 school days from the receipt of the late busapplication. Parents/guardians may inquire about the application status onceevery two weeks.  If a parent/guardian inquires more than once every twoweeks their bus application shall be placed at the end of the waiting list.c. All other students,Grades 7-12shall be bussed basedon their applicationbeing submitted by the deadline(May 1st).d. Students moving to the district shall submit a bus application upon arrivaland it shall be dealt with based on availability of bus seats.e. Once the bus application deadline has passed, no additionalbusapplications shall be reviewed or granted.f. Should the number of applications exceed the number of available seats,the district will determine bus assignment based on the date and time ofapplication.2. Bus Application Due Date: Bus applications are dueby 5pm on May 1st.Applications sent after this date shall not be reviewed or granted.a. In the event that multiple applications are submitted on behalf of a student,only the first application shall be counted.
===PAGE 2===
3. Emergency Bus Applications: In the event of annewly arising condition thatnecessitates busing of a student AFTER the application deadline the District shallconsider such applications in their sole discretion.4. Outreach: The School District, based on known need,shall conduct individualoutreach to families that may be unable to complete the bus application form.5. Finality of Decisions: All bus application decisionsby the School District arefinal.6. Conflict and Severability: Nothing in this policyshall be interpreted asconflicting with state or federal law or regulations. In the event that someprovision of this policy is deemed unlawful all other provisions shall be given theirfull force and effect.
Approved:  April 27, 2005Updated: