===PAGE 1===
MCAS Updates as of 1/4/21 (revised w/DESE 1/5/21 changes) 
The following information is subject to change per DESE as they navigate this school year and 
continue to determine the best course of action for students.  There will be no March ELA 
administration for any grade level. 
 
Class of 2021  
 Students in grade 12 (class of 2021), as well as adult test-takers, will remain eligible to 
participate in one or both tests beginning in January to earn their CD; however, the 
MCAS administration window for 12th graders scheduled to open on January 14th is 
being postponed by DESE. Please note that currently enrolled 12th grade students who 
were previously on track to graduate during the 2019-2020 school year do not need to 
take the tests, as they remain eligible for the modified CD. 
• Pending approval of BESE, the competency determination (CD) requirement will be 
modified in ELA and mathematics for students in the Class of 2021 who have not yet 
earned their CD. The recommended modification would allow students to receive their 
CD by passing an approved course and demonstrating competency in that subject in lieu 
of a qualifying MCAS score. Seniors who still want to take the tests may take them later 
this school year. Members of the class of 2021 will have opportunities to receive 
additional academic support this spring and summer. 
 12th grade students will be allowed to participate in the administration of the Next-Gen 
computer based ELA and math MCAS in May 2021. 
 STE component of the CD for students in the classes of 20-23 will be awarded upon 
demonstration of course credit in relevant subject matter and competency in one of the 
four tested disciplines during their high school career. 
Class of 2022 
• Students in grade 11 (class of 2022) will no longer participate in testing during the 
January-February window. Testing for this class in ELA and mathematics is being 
postponed until later in the year. 
 Students should plan to try to earn their competency determination (CD) in May. If a 
family elects not to participate in testing, DESE will provide schools with a non-
participation letter that can be sent home to parents/guardians to inform them of their 
options.  
 11th grade students will be allowed to participate in the administration of the Next-Gen 
computer based ELA and math MCAS in May 2021. 
 Students will be provided with additional retest opportunities in their senior year. 
 STE component of the CD for students in the classes of 20-23 will be awarded upon 
demonstration of course credit in relevant subject matter and competency in one of the 
four tested disciplines during their high school career. 
Class of 2023 
===PAGE 2===
 Students in grade 10 will be required to take the Next-Gen computer based ELA and 
math MCAS in May (projected dates TBD based on the public health situation at the 
time). 
 STE component of the CD for students in the classes of 20-23 will be awarded upon 
demonstration of course credit in relevant subject matter and competency in one of the 
four tested disciplines during their high school career. 
Class of 2024 
 Only students in the class of 2024 will be able to participate in the STE testing this school 
year.  
 All students in class of 2024 must take a high school STE test by the end of 10th grade.  
 Class of 2024 will take the Next-Gen computer-based ELA and math MCAS in grade 10. 
 
STE MCAS 
The Department recently determined that the June 2021 Biology and Introductory Physics tests 
will be legacy, paper-based tests that assess “overlapping” standards from both the 2006 and 
2016 STE frameworks. The administration of next-generation tests in these subjects will be 
delayed until June 2022. In addition, the Department plans to offer legacy, paper-based 
Chemistry and Technology/Engineering tests in June, but they will align only to the 2006 STE 
standards. 