===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS 3000
FOOD SERVICE 3700
SCHOOL BREAKFAST/LUNCH PROGRAMLUNENBURG FOOD SERVICE 3701
CONCESSION STAND POLICY 3701.03
The Lunenburg Public Schools Concession stand will be a Retail Operation as specified in 105CMR 590.0001 purpose and definition (C )Food Establishments (3) (a.) an establishment thatoffers only prepackaged foods that are not time/temperature controlled for safety with theexception of prepared pizza purchased from a licensed food establishment.
The Business Office food service directorwill pulla permit for retail operation of the concessionstand. Food preparation is not allowed, only the sale of prepackaged foods and pizza that isprepared in a licensed regulated kitchen such as local pizza shops. The Concession StandCoordinatorfood service directorwill manage keysto the concession stand. Organizations willprovide copies of ServSafe certificates when signing out a key.  At least one organization membermust be ServSafe Manager certifiedand present duringthe operation of the concession stand. The organization will receive a copy of the concession stand policy andConcession StandStandard Operating Procedure before requestingatthe time of request foruse of the standandthe organization must return a signed acknowledgement of policy and procedures.  Requests forconcession stand usage must be submitted through the district’s facility permitting system. School Dude. Schedule requests will not be approvedwithout signed acknowledgment on file. 
Limited lockable storage will be available for seasonal orannual storageof nonperishable items.Closet/storage locks will be keyed differently but will have a master key that theFood ServiceDirectorConcession Stand Coordinatorwill maintain. 
At the end of each permit,all food and drink itemsmust be removed. The Fall sport seasonremoval deadline is 5pm on the Monday following Thanksgivingof each year, the Spring sportseason removal is 5pm on the second Friday of June each year. Any food or drink items found inthe concession stand beyond these datesor at theend of a single event permitwill be disposed ofby the School Districtthe organization will be chargeda $500 fee for the disposal. and theorganization will be charged a fee for the disposal. A $500 fee will be assessed to any userwhich results in the cleanup and/or disposal of items/food left behind.  
===PAGE 2===
All facility fees collected from operation of the concession stand will be used tomaintain orimprove the operation of the concession stand.
1. Booster Clubs, extra-curricular clubs, outside organizations or classes are required toschedule concession stand events through the district’s on-line permit system. on theSchool Dude Facilities Scheduler. The Athletic Directorand Superintendent of Schoolswill approve event requests.2. All food sold must be in compliance with the menu guidance detailed in thestandard operating procedures menu options.  There is no cooking at the concessionstand or on school grounds. Home-made food is not allowed. 3. Organizations are required to determine the number of volunteers to operate theconcession stand but at least one volunteer must hold a ServeSafe Food ManagerCertificate and be over the age of 18. All volunteers working the concession stand must beabove the age of 14. a. Organizations will manage all operations of the concession stand during anevent; including instructing and assigning all volunteers in the specific duties andshifts required.a. Organizations will maintain a log of volunteers who worked the stand foreach event.b. Volunteers must stay to clean up, empty trash cans, put equipment away,turn off all lights and secure the facility. 2. Organizations are responsible for monitoring behavior of volunteers andare thesolearbitrator of disputesinvolving volunteers and /orcustomers. Organizations areresponsible for ensuring that the volunteers follow the rules set forth for use of schoolfacilities in the district’s facilities policy and concession stand SOP’s. Organizations will bemonitored by the Concession Stand Coordinator.3. Organizations that pose repeated behavioral problems, who violate Board of Healthregulations, are found cooking onsite, are found selling items that are not allowedand/orwho fail to show up for the agreed upon scheduled event, may be banned fromparticipating in the concession stand for the remainder of the season. 48-hour notice isrequired for cancellations.4. Organizations will keep equipment clean and report any problems or mechanical issues tothe Food Service Director or Concession Stand Coordinator within 24 hours.
5. Any party, person, or organization using the concession stand agrees to maintain thefacilities, clean up after themselves, not destroy, damage, or alter any part of the facility,
===PAGE 3===
and agrees to assume legal liability for any incident, accident, or other occurrence arisingout of or related to the use of the facility.
ADOPTED(INSERT DATE)
Page 2 of 2