===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS
3000
TRANSPORTATION 3600
TRANSPORTATION:  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 3601OF THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Thepurposeofschooltransportationistogetpupilsliveanunreasonablewalkingdistancefromhometoschoolandbackinanefficient,safe,andeconomicalmanner. Otherpurposesincludetheprovisionof transportationforacademicfieldtripsin directsupportofthecurriculum,transportation for the support of the co-curricular program (athletics, music, drama, and the like).
As of August,20052023the Lunenburg PublicSchoolswilltransportall K-6gradestudentsKindergarten,Grade1,andGrade2studentsandstudentsingrades3-12wholiveoneandonehalfmilesormorefromtheschool.Grades7-12studentswillbeprovidedtransportationona bya deadlinedatesetforthfromthedistrict.TheLunenburg PublicSchoolsdoesnotprovidetransportationforpre-schoolstudentsunlessthisserviceis requiredbythestudent’sIndividualized Education Plan (IEP).
Bus Policy
1. Bus Application: Students’ families wishing for theirstudents to be bussed shallsubmit a bus application.1. All students in Lunenburg Primary School and Turkey Hill ElementarySchool shall be bussed,if and only ifa bus applicationis submitted ontheir behalfby the deadline date set forth from thedistrict2. All other studentsGrades 7-12shall be bussed basedon their applicationbeing submitted by the deadline.3. Applications will be granted on a first come, first serve basis.4. Oncecapacity is reached ORthe bus application deadlinehas passed,whichever occurs FIRST,no additional bus applicationsshall be reviewedor granted.5. Should the number of applications exceed the number of available seats,the district will determine bus assignment based on the date and time ofapplication.2. Bus Application Due Date: Bus applications are dueby 5pm on May 1st.Applications sent after this date shall not be reviewed or granted.1. In the event that multiple applications are submitted on behalf of a student,only the first application shall be counted.3. Emergency Bus Applications: In the event of an newlyarising condition thatnecessitates busing of a student AFTER the application deadline the District shallconsider such applications in their sole discretion.4. Outreach: The School District, based on known need,shall conduct individualoutreach to families with children that may be unable to complete the busapplication form.
===PAGE 2===
5. Finality of Decisions: All bus application decisions by the School District arefinal.6. Conflict and Severability: Nothing in this policyshall be interpreted asconflicting with state or federal law or regulations. In the event that someprovision of this policy is deemed unlawful all other provisions shall be given theirfull force and effect.
Approved:  April 27, 2005