===PAGE 1===
 
PERSONNEL 4000 
 
ALL EMPLOYEES 4100 
 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY/NONDISCRIMINATION 4106 
 
 
The Lunenburg School Committee and Lunenburg Public Schools are committed to maintaining 
an education and work environment for all school community members, that is free from all 
forms of discrimination, including harassment and retaliation..  The members of the school 
community include the School Committee, employees, administration, faculty, staff, students, 
volunteers in the schools, and parties contracted to perform work for the Lunenburg Public 
Schools. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employment 
or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported 
possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, or 
who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff 
who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or 
dismissal. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools is an equal opportunity employer.  As an equal opportunity 
employer, the Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning 
environment free from discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, 
pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, 
age, citizenship status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, 
language spoken, genetic information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal 
laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination 
and harassment or who participate in an equal opportunity investigation.  The Lunenburg Public 
Schools is committed to upholding non-discrimination laws in its hiring and employment 
practices.   
 
 *race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public schools have the responsibility to promote learning for all children and to overcome, 
insofar as possible, any barriers that prevent children from achieving their potential. The public 
school system will do its part. The District commits to the following: 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 
 1.  Promote the rights and responsibilities of all individuals as set forth in the State and 
Federal Constitutions, pertinent legislation, and applicable judicial interpretations.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Encourage positive learning experiences for children, youth and adults, all of whom 
have differing personal and family characteristics and who come from various 
socioeconomic, racial and ethnic groups. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.  Work toward a more integrated society and to enlist the support of individuals as well 
as groups and agencies, both private and governmental, in such an effort.  
 
 
 
 
 
 4.  Use all appropriate communication and action techniques to air and reduce the 
grievances of individuals and groups.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Carefully consider, in all the decisions made within the school system, the potential 
benefits or adverse consequences that those decisions might have on the human relations 
aspects of all segments of society. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Initiate a process of reviewing policies and practices of the school system in order to 
achieve to the greatest extent possible the objectives of this statement. 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools requires all members of the school 
community to conduct themselves in accordance with this policy. 
  
It shall be a violation of this policy for any member of the school community to engage 
in any form of discrimination, including harassment and retaliation, or to violate any 
other civil right of any member of the school community. We recognize that 
discrimination can take a range of forms and can be targeted or unintentional; however, 
discrimination in any form, including harassment and retaliation, will not be tolerated. 
It shall also be a violation of this policy for any school community member to subject 
any other member of the school community to any form of retaliation, including, but not 
limited to, coercion, intimidation, interference, punishment, discrimination, or 
harassment, for reporting or filing a complaint of discrimination, cooperating in an 
investigation, aiding or encouraging another member of the school community to report 
such conduct or file a complaint, or opposing any act or practice reasonably believed to 
be prohibited by this policy. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 LEGAL REFS:  
Title VI, Civil Rights Act of 1964 
  
  Title VII, Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended by the Equal Employment Opportunity         
Act of 1972 Executive Order 11246, as amended by E.O. 11375  
  Equal Pay Act, as amended by the Education Amendments of 1972 Title IX, Education    
Amendments of 1972 
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973  
Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975  
No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, 20 U.S.C. § 7905 (The Boy Scouts of America 
Equal Access Act)  
M.G.L. 7 1B:1 et seq. (Chapter 766 of the Acts of 1972)  
Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - h 
ttps://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
CROSS REF: 
A CE, Nondiscrimination on the Basis of 
Disability A CAB, Sexual Harassment 
G BA, Equal Employment Opportunity  
I J, Instructional Materials 
  
J B, Equal Educational Opportunities  
SOURCE: MASC August 2022 
     
 
 
 
 
          Revised & Approved May 25, 2016 
          Revised & Approved 6-20-18 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
===PAGE 4===
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 