===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Schools:  
                The Early Learning Center Program Handbook 2023/24  
The Lunenburg Public Schools offers an Early Learning Center program for families living in the 
Town of Lunenburg. Children are required to be toilet trained to attend. This program is different 
and separate from The Lunenburg Primary School Preschool program. This handbook outlines the 
services to assist you in determining if the program meets the needs of your family.  
 
. TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Rates and fees……………………………………………………… 2  
Enrollment/Attendance………………………………………….... 2  
Pick-Up and Drop-off Procedures……………………………….... 3  
Medications/Health…………………………………………….…. 3  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline…………………………………...…3  
Early Learning Center………………………………………………4  
Hours of Operation.….…….…………………………………….....   4/5  
           Early Release & Full PD Days  
           Closures  
           Inclement Weather  
           Vacations  
          Daily Activities….…………………………………………………5  
        Sign off on handbook------------------------------------------------------6 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
Dear Parent/Guardian, 
  
Welcome to our school.  We are pleased that you are interested in one or more of our 
community programs under the Lunenburg School District. Our staff is committed 
to providing a safe, and purposeful experience for each child and family. 
  
We offer a variety of programs and services to our Lunenburg families:  Please refer 
to our handbook, cover letters and registration packets under the Lunenburg School 
website for more information.  We look forward to helping you find the program that 
best suits your family needs.  Please feel free to reach out to us by telephone or email 
to answer questions you may have.  
  
1.   Extended Day Before and After School Program:  Child care for children from 
Kindergarten to 5th grade.  There is a fee. 
2.   The Early Learning Center :  A creative playschool with curriculum based 
academics to help promote developmental growth and transition into 
Kindergarten for 3 and 4 year olds.  There is a fee. 
3.   The Coordinated Family & Community Engagement Program : A parent and 
child program under the MA Dept. of Early Education & Care to help families 
navigate the developmental stages.  We offer ASQ testing, intentional parent  
education, interactive playgroups. Information & referral.   For 
parent/guardian/grandparent and child ages birth-6.  No cost. 
4.   Parent-Child Plus Home Visiting Program : A program under the MA Dept. 
of Early Education & Care targeted to children and fa milies who are facing 
challenges (eligibility requirements) that could interfere with school and life 
success for children ages 18 months to age 4.  No cost. 
Patricia McCarthy-Guillette, Director 
  
Lunenburg School’s Community Programs 
  
9778-582-4100 ext 5220 
  
Pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
The Early Learning Center Program is a self-sustaining program, and all fees collected are allocated 
to program costs. The session rate for The Early Learning Center services is established by the 
School Committee on an annual basis.  
Call (978)582 4100, x-5220 or 5221. or email pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net  
visit our website http://www.lunenburgschools.net/extended-daycare-program for current 
rates. You can also contact Annette Queen at  aqueen@lunenburgschools.net . 
Families will be billed monthly. The bill is based upon a session rate and lunch block if 
attended.  
Parents will be billed according to the set scheduled sessions that your child is signed up for, 
regardless if your child attended.  
Statements are distributed mid month and payments are due on the 1st of the following month. If 
the 1st falls on a weekend, payment will be due on the next school day. Payment is expected on the 
due date unless prior arrangements are made. Please speak to the Program Director if you are having 
difficulty paying your bill on time. Carrying an outstanding balance could result in your child being 
removed from the program. Checks should be made to Town of Lunenburg or thru our bill 
payment system RevTrak  
Registration forms and emergency contact information must be filled out every year in advance 
for each child attending the program. These are specific forms for The Early Learning Center 
Program and separate from any forms filled out for the school administration.  
Please Include the following to complete your registration:  
*Registration form and a $25 non-refundable deposit (deducted from 1st months bill) 
*Three forms of current residency-ex: current license, utility bill, mortgage, bank 
statement or   rental agreement with name and address on them.  
*Immunization record  
Please see the Extended Day Handbook for additional information.  
PLEASE NOTE  
We require a schedule of attendance to be provided for each child so that we can ensure 
appropriate levels of supervision. Registrations will be available April 3rd, 2023. It is the 
parents’ responsibility to notify the school and The Early Learning Center of their 
child’s 
schedule. Your child may attend both the Early Learning Center and the Primary School 
Preschool if needed, paying the tuition for both programs. There is no transportation provided 
between the two programs.  
A schedule of registration notices and deadlines will be issued through school publications and 
websites.  
 
===PAGE 4===
Pick-up and Drop-off Procedures  
It is required that adults must sign-in/sign-out their child both in the morning and the afternoon. 
This is for your child’s safety. Your child will only be released to those individuals listed on the 
registration form. You must notify staff in writing or verbally if someone that is not on the list is 
coming to pick up your child, or we will not release him/her.  
Medications/ Health  
No medications will be dispensed at The Early Learning Center other than those 
designated as emergency medications (i.e., Epi-pens, inhalers). Staff are trained in 
first-aid, Epi-pen, CPR and AED Defibrillator. *There is no on-site nurse. *The 
parent/guardian of any child on an inhaler or epi-pen should talk to the Early Learning 
Center Director or Coordinator and establish a written health plan for the time the child is 
enrolled in the Early Learning Center program.  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline  
Behavior and discipline standards at the Early Learning Center are consistent with those of the 
school district. Students are expected to conduct themselves according to the standards set forth in 
their student handbook. Please refer to the current handbook for a fully detailed explanation.  
∙ All members of the Early Learning Center program are expected to treat each other with 
courtesy and respect at all times.  
∙ Students will show respect for school property and the property of others. ∙ 
Bullying is absolutely not tolerated.  
∙ Through both environmental and instructional structure, we strive to foster positive behavior 
and self -management in students, greatly reducing the need to ‘discipline’ or correct 
behaviors.  
∙ Children may be given a verbal reminder to correct inappropriate conduct. If the behavior 
continues, the child will be asked to separate from the situation for a brief period of time in 
order to collect themselves and may reenter the activity once they are able to choose 
appropriate behavior.  
∙ If a child continues to be unable to manage themselves, then a parent will be notified. ∙ If  
behavior continues or is detrimental to the program or other students, then 
administrative intervention will be sought up to and including removal from the 
program.  
PLEASE NOTE: If your child is also enrolled in the Lunenburg Primary Preschool, privacy 
issues limit the school administration from sharing behavior/education plans with The Early 
Learning Center staff without the written consent of the parent. Please do not assume that we have 
access to this kind of information.  
If there is information that would be helpful in providing the best possible care for your child, 
please speak to the program director/coordinator to share any pertinent information.  
 
===PAGE 5===
Early Learning Center  
The classroom for the Early Learning Center program has been designed with areas for 
developmental growth, such as: housekeeping, block building, reading, listening center, and 
science, along with an art area, reinforcing necessary skills for social, emotional, cognitive and 
physical growth. During the regular school hours from 9:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. children attending the 
program will have a structured day, reinforcing necessary skills that are introduced in the preschool 
and kindergarten classrooms, for example: name writing, color/shape identification, alphabet 
identification, cutting skills, etc. The skills will be taught in a fun learning environment, whether it 
is during a theme-related week (i.e., jungle unit or community helpers) or a circle time activity of 
“what’s missing” or just practicing letter formation on a table top of shaving cream. The children 
will also have plenty of time for free exploration of the classroom.  
During the school day program, we strive for a staff-to-student ratio of 1:6 plus an 
additional adult due to the academic portion of the program.  
For more information, please see our website or contact the program Director or Assistant 
Director at 978-582-4100 ext. 5221.  
Hours of Operation:  
Early Learning Center  
Morning session: 9:00am to 11:30 a.m.  
Lunch Block 11:30-12:00(if attended), Packed lunch from home.  
Afternoon session: 12:00 to 2:30 p.m.  
Full day option from 9:00-2:30  
Early Release Days  
The Early Learning Center session will end at 11:00, when the district has an early release day.  
Closed  
Full Day Professional Development days for the district and the following holidays: 
September 1st-Labor Day Break 
September 4th-Labor Day  
October 9th-Columbus Day 
November 6th-A.M. Available Only  
 November 7th-Full PD Day 
November 10th-Veterans Day  
November 22nd-A.M. Available Only 
November 23rd & 24th-Thanksgiving Break  
December-Winter Break Dec. 25th thru Jan. 2nd-New Year’s Day(closed 12/22 after Noon) 
January 12th-A.M. Available Only 
January 15th-Martin Luther King Day 
April 12th-A.M. Available Only  
May 27th-Memorial Day  
June 19th-Juneteenth 
===PAGE 6===
 
Vacations  
The Early Learning Center will be closed on the December, February, and April break in 
accordance with the school District. You will not be billed for these days or holidays. 
PLEASE NOTE:  
The Early Learning Center closes the Friday before the last day of school and will begin 
one week after the District start date.  
Inclement Weather  
The Early Learning Center will be closed on weather emergency days. For delayed openings, The 
Early Learning Center a.m. session will be canceled. You will not be billed for these days or 
holidays. 
 
The afternoon session will begin at 12:00 pm.  
Daily Activities  
A.M. Arrival  
Free choice of play, games and arts  
Morning Meeting/Circle Time  
Greet our Friends  
Introduce what our day will look like  
Themed related arts/crafts  
Indoor/outdoor activities  
Snacks  
P.M. Repeat  
 
Outdoor activities  
Students enrolled in the Early Learning Center program will go outside. Please be sure that 
children are properly dressed each day for outdoor recess and clothes are labeled.  
Snacks  
Children must provide their own snack at the Early Learning Center. This is in accordance with 
the school’s policy on snacks due to the number of children with food allergies. Please refrain 
from sending foods containing nuts. 
Non Discrimination Statement  
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free from 
discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, 
sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, 
veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic 
information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we 
===PAGE 7===
prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who 
participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
 
 