===PAGE 1===
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON -INSTRUCTIONAL OPE RATIONS 3000 
 
INCOME 3200 
 
FUNDING PROPOSALS AND APPLICATIONS 3203 
 
The School Committee will encourage the administration to seek and secure all possible sources 
of state, federal, and other special funds that will enhance the educational opportunities for the 
children in its public schools and district goals.. 
 
The Superintendent will be kept informed of all possible funds available to the school system under 
the various state and federal programs, and in what manner these funds can best be used in the 
school system. 
 
The Superintendent will be responsible for seeking out  and coordinating the development of 
proposals for all specially funded projects and for submitting the proposals to the committee for 
approval.  The School Committee shall authorize applications for any non-entitlement grants prior 
to submission of these applications and projects. 
 
Upon award notification, grants and gifts to the District must be presented by the School 
Committee before expenditure.  The Superintendent will submit for School Committee approval 
spending plans at the same cost center level as the district budget.   
 
The Superintendent is authorized to sign all reports for these projects and will be responsible for 
the proper expenditure of funds received for such projects. 
 
The Superintendent shall ensure the district has and follows a written set of procedures in grant 
administration that aligns with state and federal laws and regulations. 
 
 
Legal Ref.:  Ch. 44, Sec. 53A 
 
MASC: In accordance with state law, all grants and gifts to the District must be reviewed and accepted by 
the School Committee before expenditure. The School Committee will encourage the administration to 
seek and secure possible sources of state, federal, and other special funds that will enhance the educational 
opportunities for the children in alignment with district goals . The superintendent will submit for School 
Committee approval spending plans at the same cost center level as the district budget.  The Superintendent 
will be responsible for coordinating the development of proposals for all specially funded projects and for 
keeping the Committee apprised and updated on all such projects.  The Superintendent shall ensure the 
district has and follows a written set of procedures in grant administration that aligns with state and federal 
laws and regulations.  
 
SOURCE: MASC Updated 2022 
LEGAL REF.: M.G.L. 44:53A; 71:37A 
 
2 CFR 200 Federal Uniform Administrative Requirements 
 
===PAGE 2===
NOTE: The district business office must have a state and federal grant manual with procedures aligned 
with state and federal law and regulation in order to  comply with state granting requirements. The approval 
of such a document is not subject to the School Committee; the administration should ensure such a 
document is being followed.  
 
Updated 9-23-09 