===PAGE 1===
LPS 
Family-School 
Compact
This Lunenburg family-school 
compact is a written agreement 
that outlines how families, the 
entire school staff, and students will 
share the responsibility for 
improved student academic 
achievement and the means by 
which the school and families will 
build and develop a partnership to 
help students achieve the State's 
high standards. 
For the purposes of this compact 
families/caregivers refers to any 
person that cares for a school aged 
child in a home or home-like 
setting. School staff refers to 
employees of the school district 
such as, but not limited to teachers, 
counselors, principals etc. In this 
compact, students refers to school 
aged children ages 3-21 enrolled in 
the public school system.
Each stakeholder group should 
presume best intentions of other 
stakeholders and seek to achieve 
success through active listening and 
understanding to reach a 
collaborative solution to issues.
https://www.schoolandmain.org/
===PAGE 2===
Roles, Responsibilities, and Expectations
Families/Caregivers will share the responsibility to 
improve academic achievement in the following 
ways:
Communication
1. Communicate regularly with teachers and staff about 
their child's academic and social development.
2. Contact staff directly or support students to 
self-advocate with questions and concerns as soon as 
possible if their student is having difficulty 
(academically, behaviorally, social-emotionally), so 
that school-home can work on a solution to the 
challenge.
3. Participate in a family-teacher conference at least 
once a year to ask questions and understand success 
metrics/student performance.
Opportunities 
1. Support their student’s learning by ensuring regular 
full day attendance and completion of daily 
assignments.
2. Encourage a positive attitude towards education and 
the school community. 
3. Create time and space for students to complete 
homework assignments.
4. Support student academic/behavioral struggles and 
listen to student feedback.
Connection to School
1. Become familiar with the school policies and 
handbooks, and support these guidelines for student 
actions toward learning.
2. Check student academic performance through paper 
assignments, PowerSchool, and Google classroom.
3. Show interest in the school environment: engage with 
their student about school and educational 
opportunities.
4. Participate in school activities and events when 
possible.
Students will share the responsibility to improve 
academic achievement in the following ways:
Communication
1. Communicate openly with families about school 
activities and academic progress.
2. Communicate with educators about needs for 
support/challenges.
3. Communicate with adults at home about support 
needed/challenges/successes.
4. Listen to feedback from school and families.
5. Share feedback to school and families.
6. Commit to pass on all notices and information 
received at school on to families.
Participation
1. Respect teachers, staff, and peers, and contribute to 
a positive school environment.
2. Follow school rules and guidelines.
3. Be an active member of the school community when 
possible.
Attendance
1. Attend school regularly and arrive on time.
2. Complete assignments, and homework when 
applicable.
Preparation
1. Be physically prepared to learn with appropriate 
materials.
2. Actively engage in learning, complete assignments, 
and strive for academic success.
3. Hold themselves responsible/accountable for 
behavior, interactions with others, school learning, 
and track academic progress.

===PAGE 3===
Roles, Responsibilities, and Expectations
Lunenburg Public School Staff will share the responsibility to improve academic achievement in the 
following ways:
Communication
1. Create and engage in regular 2 way communication (e-mail, surveys, phone, etc.) about student academic and 
behavioral strengths/challenges.
2. Follow up with families when an issue has been brought forward, and share updates as needed.
3. Encourage students and families to communicate with the school staff.
4. Provide prompt notiﬁcation and communication regarding service delivery on IEPs and 504s.  Regularly update 
families regarding implementation of accommodations/ modiﬁcations, and student progress through progress 
reports, annual and reevaluation meetings.
Opportunities
1. Offer opportunities for family involvement and engagement.
2. Offer a variety of in-school and extracurricular activities that allow students to explore their interests, develop 
skills beyond academics, and socialize with peers.
Safety
1. Provide and promote a safe learning environment in and around the school community, with a focus on the 
social-emotional well-being of all students so that all students feel they can do their best.
2. Implement anti-bullying policies, social-emotional supports, and help students identify trusted adults.  Also, aid 
students in the correct reporting of bullying.
High-Quality Instruction
1. Deliver high-quality, and engaging learning opportunities that include support for struggling students, and 
students with diverse learning needs and styles. 
2. Make decisions that keep the student at the center of instructional decisions.
Grades, Progress, Achievement
1. Offer meaningful scoring and commentary on a variety of assignments to enable students to build upon their 
strengths, improve upon their weaknesses, and learn from the teacher feedback.
2. Explain success metrics (MCAS, iReady, curriculum measures) utilized by the district to students and families with 
clear examples to foster understanding of achievement and growth.
3. Update academic progress/grades regularly to students and families, and communicate if students are struggling.
Thank you to the Lunenburg Public School Community for their input, 
and guidance into the development, and implementation of this 
partnership document.
