===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
 
STUDENTS 5800 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION 5801 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION 
 
Public schools have the responsibility to overcome, insofar as possible, any barriers that prevent 
children from achieving their potential.  The public school system will do its part.  This 
commitment to the community is affirmed by the following statements that the School Committee 
intends to:  
 
1. Promote the rights and responsibilities of all individuals as set forth in the State and Federal 
Constitutions, pertinent legislation, and applicable judicial interpretations. 
 
2. Encourage positive experiences in human values for children, youth and adults, all of whom 
have differing personal and family characteristics and who come from various socioeconomic, 
racial and ethnic groups. 
 
3. Work toward a more integrated society and to enlist the support of individuals as well as groups 
and agencies, both private and governmental, in such an effort. 
 
4. Use all appropriate communication and action techniques to air and reduce the grievance s of 
individuals and groups. 
 
5. Carefully consider, in all the decisions made within the school system, the potential benefits 
or adverse consequences that those decisions might have on the human relations aspects of all 
segments of society. 
 
6. Initiate a process of reviewing policies and practices of the school system in order to achieve 
to the greatest extent possible the objectives of this statement. 
 
The Committee's policy of nondiscrimination will extend to students, staff, the general public, and 
individuals with whom it does business; No person shall be excluded from or discriminated against 
in admission to a public school of any town or in obtaining the advantages, privileges, and courses 
of study of such public school on account of race, color, sex, gender identity, religion, national 
origin, sexual orientation or disability.  
 
race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil 
union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran status, political affiliation, 
housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic information or disability, as defined and 
required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against individuals who 
oppose such discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal opportunity 
investigation. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 *race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employment 
or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported 
possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, or 
who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff 
who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or 
dismissal. 
If someone has a complaint or feels that they have been discriminated against because of the 
aforementioned protected classes above, race, color, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, 
sexual orientation or disability, their complaint should be registered with the Title IX compliance 
officer. 
 
 
SOURCE:  MASC 
 
LEGAL REFS.: Title VI, Civil Rights Act of 1964   
Title VII, Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended by the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Act of 1972   
Executive Order 11246, as amended by E.O. 11375      
Equal Pay Act, as amended by the Education Amendments of 1972 
Title IX, Education Amendments of 1972 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975 
M.G.L. 71B:1 et seq. (Chapter 766 of the Acts of 1972) 
M.G.L. 76:5; Amended 2011 
M.G.L.76:16  
BESE regulations 603CMR 26.00 Amended 2012 
BESE regulations 603CMR 28.00 
 
Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - 
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
 CROSS REFS.:  ACA- ACE, Subcategories for Nondiscrimination   
GBA, Equal Employment Opportunity  
JB, Equal Educational Opportunities   
 
 
 
Approved: November 7, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 