===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
 
CONDUCT 5400 
 
DRESS CODE 5412 
 
Students should dress appropriately adding to a positive, productive school environment.  Student 
dress is unacceptable if it is a distraction to the learning process, is considered to be offensive, or 
if it affects the health, rights, and/or safety of the person or others.  Clothing, jewelry, or related 
apparel which refers to alcohol, drugs, tobacco, profanity, sexual connotations, or suggestive 
double-meaning will not be permitted.  Chai ns worn on pants, protruding studs from clothing, or 
sharp objects on clothing or jewelry will not be permitted due to the potential for damage, safety, 
and/or injury.  Students who do not adhere to the dress code will be dealt with in a disciplinary 
manner up to and including suspension.  
 
Additional information shall be provided in each school handbook. 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employment 
or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, r eligion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairst yle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported 
possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an invest igation, or 
who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff 
who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or dismissal. 
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free 
from discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship 
status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, 
genetic information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, 
we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or 
who participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
*race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair                 
texture, hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
LEGAL REF.:  Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 -
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
Revised:  June 15, 2005 Updated & Approved   5-3-17 
 