===PAGE 1===
PoliteRespectfulIndependent ThinkersDependableEffort
Our first day of the 2022-2023 school year went well. We maintained our drop off and pick upprocedures from last year. The incorporation of some new staff and new procedures did nothave a major impact on those procedures. Students spent the day meeting and greeting theirteachers and jumping into classroom and building routines. Mr. Adams and Mr. White met witheach grade level to introduce recess and lunch guidelines and procedures. We must admit thecafeteria guidelines and procedures had to be dusted off after 2 years. Teachers met withadministration, Amy Raboin and Deidre McLean, to jump into iReady assessment schedules,the new math and literacy resources planning, and MTSS scheduling. Kindergarten held thescreenings at TCP. Mr. White and I spent a good portion of the day checking in with studentsand staff, especially new staff.

===PAGE 2===
As of August 30, 2022.
Enrollment
Pre-K- 42 ( 3 and 4 year olds divide between am/pm sessions and 2 or 4 day schedules)Kindergarten -108Grade 1- 125Grade 2- 113
Class SizePre-K-  3 and 4 year olds divided between am/pm sessions and 2 or 4 day schedulesKindergarten- 21.8Grade 1- 21Grade 2- 22
We would like to thank our custodial staff for a fantastic job on the building while being shortstaffed. We were able to get some additional help in a short time frame in order to ensure thateverything was ready. Including 3 major room moves. Thank you Jim and Tom!
We have many new staff joining this year and some staff in new positions.,
Melanie Roy(Pre-K teacher)Chelsea Drake(Nurse)Sarah Woods(Social Worker/School Adjustment Counselor)Juan Rojas(Title I Tutor)Nichole Vautour(Title I Tutor)Michelle Barill(Paraprofessional)Kristine Hall(Paraprofessional)Carolyn Bradley(Paraprofessional)Mary DeConinck(Paraprofessional)Maia Wentrup(Paraprofessional)
Other staffing changes include existing staff members in new roles: Nancy Murry( ReadingSpecialist), Tara Bastien(Gauthier)(STEM Teacher), Deborah DeFruscia(Music Teacher),Melissa Orlowski(Grade 1 Teacher), Brittany Gibbons(Grade 2 Teacher), Jim Gentilella(HeadCustodian),Maia Wentrup(Paraprofessional).
