===PAGE 1===
June 13, 2022 
 
Dear Friend of Massachusetts Schoolchildren, 
 
Last week we learned that the Massachusetts Chapter of the American 
Academy of Pediatrics has endorsed the Massachusetts Schoolchildren 
Pesticide Protection Act, H.926. H.926 will protect children by restricting 
outdoor use of toxic pesticides near schools and childcare centers, 
allowing only pesticides the EPA considers "minimum risk" or those 
certified for organic land care. 
(See the list of current endorsers below.) 
   
This legislation is critically important because despite the well-known 
hazards, Massachusetts law still permits schools and childcare centers to 
use toxic pesticides, including glyphosate and 2,4-D on playgrounds and 
playing fields.   
 
Testimony before the Joint Committee on Environment, Natural Resources 
and Agriculture (ENRA) in December 2021, revealed how the 
Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources is failing in its 
mandated mission to protect Massachusetts residents from toxic 
pesticides. You can watch video clips of testimony, HERE. 
 
You might be surprised to learn how many school systems still use toxic 
pesticides!  HERE is a link to the Integrated Pest Management plans of 
schools across the Commonwealth, organized by municipality. 
Children are especially vulnerable to toxic pesticides!  
 Children absorb more pesticides relative to their body weight 
than adults. 
 Children’s organ systems are still developing and are less able 
to detoxify harmful chemicals. 
 In 2012 the  American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) called on 
governments to reduce children's exposure to pesticides, 
writing that scientific evidence “demonstrates associations 
between early life exposure to pesticides and pediatric cancers, 
decreased cognitive function, and behavioral problems. 
  
The good news is that the bill received a favorable report from the ENRA 
committee. This means that the bill is still alive, but we need to get it to the 
===PAGE 2===
floor for a vote. Last session, even with a favorable report from ENRA, the 
bill died in Committee. Every additional endorsement of the H.926 will 
move H.926 closer to passing! Therefore, we sincerely hope that the 
Lunenburg School Committee will add its name to our list of endorsers. 
 
This is the LINK to a policy memorandum from Representative Gentile’s 
(the bill’s sponsor) office, explaining in more detail why this bill is needed 
and what it will 
accomplish.                                                                                                      
 
For your information, HERE is the endorsement link. We are available to 
respond to any questions or concerns you might have.  
Best regards, 
Marty Dagoberto L. Driggs, Policy Director, Northeast Organic Farming 
Association/Massachusetts Chapter (NOFA/Mass) marty@nofamass.org 
Carole Horowitz, Climate Action Now, Western MA and Northeast Organic 
Farming Association (NOFA/Mass)  horowitz.carole@gmail.com  
Rosemary Malfi, Pollinator Network Coordinator, Northeast Organic 
Farming Association (NOFA/Mass) rosemary@nofamass.org 
Ginger Ryan, Mothers Out Front, MA, gingerryan11@gmail.com 
 
Current Endorsements 
 
Medical/Academic Professionals 
 
Massachusetts Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics 
860 Winter Street 
Waltham, MA 02451 
 
Blair Wylie, MD MPH 
Director, Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine 
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center 
Harvard Medical School 
 
Regina LaRoque, M.D., M.P.H. 
Mass General Hospital 
Associate Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School 
 
Brita Lundberg, M.D. 
===PAGE 3===
Greater Boston Physicians for Social Responsibility 
 
Paul Herscu, N.D. 
Amy Rothenberg, N.D. 
Naturopathic Health Care  
Preventative and Natural Medicine 
Carmen Messerlian, PhD 
Assistant Professor of Environmental Reproductive, Perinatal, and Pediatric Epidemiology 
Departments of Epidemiology and Environmental Health 
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 
Director, Scientific Early Life Environmental Health & Development (SEED) Program 
 
Philip J. Landrigan, M.D., Program Director 
Boston College Global Observatory on Pollution and Health 
 
Elizabeth Pinsky, M.D. 
Mass General Center for the Environment and Health 
 
Municipal Organizations 
 
Amherst Board of Health 
Brookline School Committee 
Cambridge City Council 
Cambridge School Committee 
Great Barrington Agricultural Commission 
Medford School Committee 
Northampton Board of Health 
Northampton School Committee 
Plainfield Agricultural Commission 
Somerville School Committee 
Wellesley Natural Resources Commission 
Wendell Agricultural Committees 
Winthrop Board of Health 
 
Individual Elected Officials 
 
Ruthzee Louijeune - Boston City Councilor, At-Large 
Kendra Lara - Boston City Councilor, District 6 
Julia Mejia - Boston City Councilor, At-Large 
 
Legislative Sponsors 
 
Carmine Lawrence Gentile  13th Middlesex 
Adam J. Scanlon   14th Bristol 
Danillo A. Sena   37th Middlesex 
Tommy Vitolo    15th Norfolk 
Jack Patrick Lewis   7th Middlesex 
Lindsay N. Sabadosa   1st Hampshire 
Steven C. Owens   29th Middlesex 
===PAGE 4===
Michelle L. Ciccolo   15th Middlesex 
Brian W. Murray   10th Worcester 
Jay D. Livingstone    8th Suffolk 
Thomas M. Stanley    9th Middlesex 
David Henry Argosky LeBoeuf 17th Worcester 
Brian M. Ashe    2nd Hampden 
James M. Kelcourse   1st Essex 
Bud L. Williams   11th Hampden 
Bradley H. Jones, Jr.   20th Middlesex 
Tami L. Gouveia   14th Middlesex 
Elizabeth A. Malia   11th Suffolk 
Dylan A. Fernandes   Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket 
David Allen Robertson   19th Middlesex 
Kate Lipper-Garabedian  32nd Middlesex 
James J. O'Day   14th Worcester 
Joanne M. Comerford   Hampshire, Franklin and Worcester 
William C. Galvin   6th Norfolk 
David M. Rogers   24th Middlesex 
Daniel R. Carey   2nd Hampshire 
Jessica Ann Giannino   16th Suffolk 
Marcos A. Devers   16th Essex 
Christine P. Barber   34th Middlesex 
Adam G. Hinds   Berkshire, Hampshire, Franklin and Hampden 
Natalie M. Blais   1st Franklin 
Paul W. Mark    2nd Berkshire 
Marjorie C. Decker   25th Middlesex 
Kenneth I. Gordon   21st Middlesex 
Natalie M. Higgins   4th Worcester 
Mike Connolly    26th Middlesex 
Jeffrey Rosario Turco   19th Suffolk 
Mindy Domb    3rd Hampshire 
Patricia A. Duffy   5th Hampden 
Sean Garballey   23rd Middlesex 
Paul R. Feeney   Bristol and Norfolk 
Sal N. DiDomenico   Middlesex and Suffolk 
Erika Uyterhoeven   27th Middlesex 
 
Statewide and National Organizations 
 
Beyond Pesticides 
Center for Biological Diversity 
Community Action Works Campaigns 
Conservation Law Foundation 
Earthjustice 
Marion Institute 
Massachusetts Teachers Association 
Massachusetts Forest Watch 
MASSPIRG 
Mothers Out Front Massachusetts 
Northeast Organic Farming Association/Massachusetts Chapter (NOFA/Mass) 
===PAGE 5===
Regeneration Massachusetts 
Sierra Club Massachusetts 
Sustainable Business Network of MA 
Other Groups 
 
Arise for Social Justice - Springfield 
Berkshire Environmental Action Team (BEAT, Great Barrington) 
Belmont A.M.E. Zion Church 
Berkshire Grown 
Bionutrient Food Association 
Boston Organics 
Bridgewater Green Committee 
Climate Action Now Western Mass 
Climate Code Blue 
Concerned Citizens of Franklin County 
Extinction Rebellion Western Mass 
Gardening the Community (Springfield) 
Global Environmental Options 
GreenCAPE 
Green Newton 
Grow Food Northampton 
Island Grown Initiative 
LEAD for Pollinators, Inc. 
Local Harmony 
Meadowscaping for Biodiversity 
Northampton Association of School Employees  
POCCA Cape Cod 
Savvy Women's Alliance 
Springfield Climate Justice Coalition 
Sunrise Worcester 
Sustainable Shrewsbury Citizens Network 
Town of Pelham Community Garden 
Upswing Farm 
Wendell State Forest Alliance 
Resources 
Scientific articles 
Children take in more air, water and food relative to their body weight 
compared to adults.  This increases their total exposure.  For example, the 
breathing rate of a child in its first twelve years is roughly double that of an 
adult.  As a result, the amount of airborne contaminants reaching the 
surface of the lung can be much higher.  Not only is exposure likely to be 
higher, but a child’s ability to cope with pesticide poisoning will differ from 
that of an adult.  The systems that our bodies use to deal with toxins are 
less well developed in children and this can make them less able to cope 
===PAGE 6===
with these substances than adults.  As they grow, children’s brains and 
bodies undergo complex changes that affect tissue growth and organ 
development.  Incidents of exposure that would be tolerated by adults, can 
cause irreversible damage to unborn babies, infants, and adolescents.  
The Carcinogenic Threat to Children from the Massachusetts Pesticide 
Law (pertaining to the previous session’s bill but nothing has changed) 
The deleterious effects of glyphosate on children’s health. 
The World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on 
Cancer finds glyphosate to be a probable carcinogen. 
Children and Pesticides Don’t Mix 
Pesticide Exposure and Child Neurodevelopment 
EPA fails to test pesticides for endocrine disruption. 
Current Law and H.926 
The Massachusetts Pesticide Control Act, Mass General Laws Chapter 
132B 
The Mass. Pesticide Control Act, “Single Use Waivers” Chapter 132B, 
Section 6H 
H. 926 “An Act relative to protecting Massachusetts Schoolchildren” 
Schools Use of Pesticides in Massachusetts 
Look at this LINK to the Integrated Pest Management plans of schools 
across the Commonwealth, organized by municipality to see what cities 
and towns are currently using.  
 
                                                                                                                        
                           
 
 