===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Schools Extended Day Handbook 2023/2024  
The Lunenburg Public Schools offer Extended Day services for families of students enrolled in 
the Lunenburg Public Schools and to children of school employees K through grade 5. Children 
are required to be toilet trained to attend. A summer program is also offered for students for K 
through grade 5. The program is located at the Thomas C. Passios building. This handbook 
outlines the services to assist you in determining if the program meets the needs of your family. 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
                                    Rates and fees…………………………………………………… …3  
                                    Enrollment/Attendance………………………………………….  ... 3  
                                   Registrations………………………………………………………...2/3  
Pre-Registration…………………………………………………......3  
                                    Pick-Up and Drop-off Procedures………………………………. ... 4  
                                    Medications/Health……………………………………………. …. 4  
                                Rules, Conduct and Discipline…………………………………...…4  
                              Hours of Operation…………………………………………… … …5  
Early Release & Full PD Days  
Inclement Weather  
Vacations  
Summer  
          Daily Activities….……………………………………………… … 5/6  
Indoor/outdoor activities  
Snacks  
  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
         
Dear Parent/Guardian, 
 
Welcome to our school.  We are pleased that you are interested in one or more of our 
community programs under the Lunenburg School District. Our staff is committed to 
providing a safe, and purposeful experience for each child and family. 
 
We offer a variety of programs and services to our Lunenburg families:  Please refer to 
our handbook, cover letters and registration packets under the Lunenburg School 
website for more information.  We look forward to helping you find the program that best 
suits your family needs.  Please feel free to reach out to us by telephone or email to 
answer questions you may have.   
 
1. Extended Day Before and After School Program:  Child care for children from 
Kindergarten to 5th grade.  There is a fee. 
2. The Early Learning Center:  A creative playschool with curriculum based academics to 
help promote developmental growth and transition into Kindergarten for 3 and 4 year 
olds.  There is a fee. 
3. The Coordinated Family & Community Engagement Program: A parent and child 
program under the MA Dept. of Early Education & Care to help families navigate the 
developmental stages.  We offer ASQ testing, intentional parent education, interactive 
playgroups. Information & referral.   For parent/guardian/grandparent and child ages 
birth-6.  No cost. 
4. Parent-Child Plus Home Visiting Program: A program under the MA Dept. of Early 
Education & Care targeted to children and families who are facing challenges (eligibility 
requirements) that could interfere with school and life success for children ages 18 
months to age 4.  No cost. 
Patricia McCarthy-Guillette, Director 
 
Lunenburg School’s Community Programs 
 
9778-582-4100 ext 5220 
 
Pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Rates and Fees 
The Extended Day Program is a self-sustaining program, and all fees collected are allocated to 
program costs. The rate for extended day services is established by the School Committee on an 
annual basis. Please check the web site or registration form for the annual rates.  
Call (978) 582-4100, X-5220 or X-5221, email  
pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net  or visit our website at  
http://www.lunenburgschools.net/extended day-program.  
Families will be billed for services rendered at the middle of each calendar month. The bill is 
based upon a block billing rate.  
Statements are distributed by the 20th day of the month and payments are due on the 1st of the 
next month. If the 1st falls on a weekend, payment will be due on the next school day. Payment is 
expected on the due date unless prior arrangements are made. Please speak to the program 
Director if you are having difficulty paying your bill on time. Carrying an outstanding balance 
could result in your child being dropped from the program. If a child is picked up later than 5:30 
p.m., there will be an additional charge of $1.00 per minute. If a pattern of tardiness continues 
your child could be dropped from the program.  
Enrollment/Attendance  
Online Registrations were made available on April 3, 2023.  
Parents will pay for set schedule, (even if not used)  
Registration forms and emergency contact information must be filled out every year in 
advance for each child attending the program. These are specific forms for the Extended Day 
Program and separate from any forms filled out for the school administration.  
An established cap for a.m. and p.m. sessions will be determined on a yearly basis, not to 
exceed 75 per session.  
PLEASE NOTE  
We require a schedule of attendance be provided for each child so that we ensure appropriate levels 
of supervision. It is the parents’ responsibility to notify the school and Extended Day of their 
child’s schedule. No drop-ins and as needed registrations are no longer available.  
A schedule of registration notices and deadlines will be issued as needed through 
school publications and websites.  
Any child returning on a bus will be dropped off at the front hall of TC Passios and Extended 
Day program staff will bring student to the Superintendent’s office until child can be picked up.  
A non-refundable block billing rate fee will be applied if a child has been signed up on 
one of these days and does not attend.  
If there is insufficient enrollment, services may be cancelled. You will receive 
a minimum one-week notice if a decision to cancel services is made.  
You can withdraw your child without penalty with one week advanced notice.  
 
===PAGE 4===
Pick-up and Drop-off Procedures  
It is required that adults must sign-in/sign-out their child both in the morning and the afternoon. 
This is for your child’s safety. Your child will only be released to those individuals listed on the 
registration form. You must notify staff in writing or call if someone not on the list is coming to 
pick up your child, or we will not release him/her.  
Please have an ID available when picking up your child.  
Medications/ Health  
Medication policies at Extended Day are the same as those set forth in the student handbook. No 
medications will be dispensed at Extended Day other than those designated as emergency 
medications (i.e., Epi -pens, inhalers). Staff are trained in first -aid, E pi-pen, CPR and AED 
Defibrillator.  
∙     The parent/guardian of any child on an inhaler or epi-pen should talk to the Extended 
Day Director/Coordinator and establish a written health plan for the time the child is 
enrolled in the Extended Day program.  
   There is no on site medical personal/nursing staff  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline  
Behavior and discipline standards at Extended Day are consistent with those of the school district. 
Students are expected to conduct themselves according to the standards set forth in their student 
handbook. Please refer to the current handbook for a fully detailed explanation.  
∙ All members of the Extended Day program are expected to treat each other with courtesy 
and respect at all times.  
∙ Students will show respect for school property and the property of others. ∙ 
Bullying is absolutely not tolerated.  
∙ Toys and other personal items not required for the regular school day are prohibited from 
Extended Day.  
∙ Through both environmental and instructional structure, we strive to foster positive behavior 
and self -management in students, greatly reducing the need to ‘discipline’ or correct 
behaviors.  
∙ Children may be given a verbal reminder to correct inappropriate conduct. If the behavior 
continues, the child will be asked to separate from the situation for a brief period of time in 
order to collect themselves and may reenter the activity once they are  able to choose 
appropriate behavior.  
∙  If a child continues to be unable to manage themselves, then a parent will be notified. ∙ 
If  behavior continues or is detrimental to the program or other students, then 
administrative intervention will be sought up to and including suspension or removal 
                            from the program. We document all behavioral issues and discuss with a parent.  
PLEASE NOTE: Privacy issues limit the school administration from sharing behavior/education 
plans with Extended Day staff without the written consent of the parent. Please do not assume that 
we have access to this kind of information. If there is information that would be helpful in providing 
the best possible care for your child, please speak to the program director/coordinator to share any 
pertinent information.  
 
 
===PAGE 5===
Hours of Operation  
Extended Day K-Grade 5 Before and After School:  
Standard hours of operation during the school year are 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through 
Friday. The before school program starts at 7:00 a.m.; the after-school program starts at 3:30 p.m. 
for the elementary school and 3:30 p.m. for the primary school.  
Early Release Days  
The Extended Day after-school session will start after The Primary School and THES 
dismissal time and operate 12:30-5:30 p.m. (Block billing rate)  
 
If the last day of school is an early release day, the program will not operate. 
If an early release falls on a Friday before a school break, the program will not operate. 
Full Day Professional Development: The Extended Day program is CLOSED on full 
day professional development days so that the staff may participate in PD offerings.  
Inclement Weather  
Extended Day services will be closed on weather emergency days. For delayed openings, 
the Extended Day Program opens when the school opens.  
Vacations  
Services will not be offered on April and February school vacations  
*Closed during the December break in accordance with the district.  
Summer  
The Summer Program( 5 weeks Monday -Thursday 8:30-3:00 pm) begins the first full week 
of July and will close two full weeks prior to school starting.  
Dates, Themes and Field trips will be posted April 3, 2023 for parents to plan accordingly. 
*If a child attends the summer program that requires extra support, a parent will be asked to 
chaperone on field trip days.  
The summer program payments are due the Monday of each week. Payments are non 
refundable once you register. There is a $25.00 non-refundable registration fee due 
upon acceptance into the program and will be put towards the first week's bill. 
Daily Activities 
Indoor activities  
All children attending the extended day program will be allowed to choose from numerous games 
and activities.  
Game Room-pool table, air hockey, foosball, ping-pong and Wii sports and Just Dance for 
movement.  
Art room-arts and crafts.  
The gymnasium can be used during inclement weather.  
Outdoor activities  
Students enrolled in the extended day program will go outside. Please be sure that children are 
properly dressed each day for outdoor recess and clothes are labeled.  
 
===PAGE 6===
Snacks  
Children must provide their own snack/drink while attending Extended Day. This is in 
accordance with the school’s policy on snacks due to the number of children with food allergies.  
Non Discrimination Statement  
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free 
from discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship 
status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic 
information or disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we 
prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who 
participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
 
 