===PAGE 1===
Fall 2 Protocol development and 
information timeline 
 
 
1. Later Summer- MIAA COVID Task Force established the start date for the Fall 2 season to begin 
on Monday February, 22nd (football and cheer were moved to this season at this time) 
2.  September ’20- The Midland Wachusett League moved Unified Basketball to the Fall Season 
3. November 16-18 MIAA Sports Medicine Committee meetings to approve Winter Sports 
Recommendations 
a.  The MIAA indoor track committee withdrew from presenting modifications for the 
sport to take place during the winter season, due to the extreme lack of facility 
availability for practice and competitions 
4. Late November:  The league approved track to be provided the same opportunity to conduct 10 
practices outdoors, similar to the opportunity provided to football and cheer in the Fall 1 
season. 
5. December 2nd – Lunenburg school committee approved winter sports presented and 10 optional 
practices for indoor track  
a. Similar to the fall I waited for the sports competing to start and have an understanding 
of how things were to operate before allowing registration for optional indoor track 
practices 
b. Information regarding track practices was sent out before Christmas break and sessions 
began the week after we returned weather permitting.  
6. January 15 Midland Wachusett League Athletic Directors meeting normal monthly meeting, 
scheduled an additional meeting in February on 2/5 to adjust and make modifications to 
district/league guidebook once the MIAA has established its guidance and to start league 
football on 3/1 indoor track on 3/15 
7. January 25-27 MIAA Sports medicine committee met to approve Fall 2 sport modifications 
based on the EEA guidelines updated on January 22 
8. January 28 MIAA Covid Task Force to accept and approve modifications to bring fourth to the 
MIAA Board of Directors 
9.  January 29 MIAA Board of Directors Votes to Approve the Fall 2 sports modifications 
10. February 3-4 communication between Dr. Burnham and I regarding Fall 2 sports start date and 
school committee presentation/approval (February winter start date 2/22 next schedule school 
committee meeting 2/24) Looking to have a special school committee meeting on 2/10 for Fall 2 
sports approval  
11. February 5- League Athletic Director meeting sport modifications and guidebook updates were 
presented, discussed and voted on. Football PODs, discussed, Start date for league football to 
begin on 2/22, Unified basketball, Cheer indoor track will start on 3/1  
a. Football pods that were discussed had changed 
b. Informed that the EEA will be updating guidelines for winter sports  
===PAGE 2===
12. February 8 Midafternoon new EEA guidelines provided- change to indoor and outdoor capacity 
limits  
a. MIAA Sports Medicine Committee Meeting: rescinded some of the EEA changes for 
MIAA Board of Director Vote on 2/11 
13. February 9 Updated information on POD Football and operations, additional information on 
possible track meets discussed, and how track could operate practices inside the building  
14. February 10 Updated documents provided for schools committee regarding cold weather 
updates, and operations, and recommendations regarding football and track  
15. February 12 Midland Wachusett Meeting to update Fall 2 guidelines and handbook  