===PAGE 1===
 Lunenburg Student Opportunity Act Plan 2024 
 Section 1:  Summary 
 Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to accelerating improvement for all students with a focus on improving 
 student learning experiences and outcomes for students with disabilities and for students in our high needs 
 subgroup.  Our three-year Student Opportunity Act plan focuses on addressing disparities and enhancing our 
 multi-tiered systems of support through the implementation of the following evidence-based programs selected 
 after an analysis of data: 
 1.  Supporting Curriculum Implementation  :  We are in year  two of implementation of high-quality curriculums in 
 English language arts and mathematics at the K-5 levels and in year one of implementation of high-quality 
 curriculum materials in English language arts in grades 6-8.  We are in the process of evaluating and selecting 
 a new curriculum for 6-8 math and will implement that beginning in the 24-25 school year.  It is essential that 
 we continue to engage teachers in professional development linked directly to the curriculum and that we 
 regularly monitor the effectiveness of curriculum implementation in tier I and also  in tiers II and III. 
 2.  Comprehensive Approach to Early Literacy  :  Our analysis of student data revealed a critical need for not only 
 administering reliable literacy screening assessments, which we are already doing, but for providing 
 research-based interventions tailored to each student’s learning needs, to be delivered by appropriately trained 
 staff members.  We will continue to ﬁne-tune our process for interventions, specially designed instruction, and 
 progress monitoring for all students, especially those students who are experiencing reading difﬁculties. 
 3.  High Leverage Practices for Students with Disabilities  :  Our data shows that our students with disabilities 
 require high-leverage instructional practices, and our district will work to train all staff in these practices 
 including providing scaffolding supports, explicit and specially designed instruction, ﬂexible grouping, and 
 adapting curriculum and tasks based on students’ speciﬁc learning goals. 
===PAGE 2===
 The investments that the Lunenburg Public Schools plans to make in these evidence-based programs over the next 
 three years are as follows:  $906,435 for Supporting Curriculum Implementation, $782,000 for a Comprehensive 
 Approach to Early Literacy, and $2,764,478 for High Leverage Practices for Students with Disabilities. 
 Section 2:  Analyze Your Data and Select Student Groups for Focused Support 
 In conducting your data analysis, where did you observe the most signiﬁcant disparities in student learning 
 experiences and outcomes?  On which measures and for which student groups? 
 Lunenburg Public Schools (LPS) is a suburban district serving close to 1,600 students.  Our student population is 80% 
 white, 11% hispanic, 3.5% African American, 1.3% Asian, 3.7% multi-race, non-hispanic, and less than one percent native 
 american and native Hawaiian, paciﬁc islander.  In addition, 25% of our students are low-income, 3% English language 
 learner, 35% high needs, and 15% of our students are students with disabilities.  Based on the analysis of our district 
 data, described below, LPS needs to address the needs of all students, and speciﬁcally our students with disabilities, 
 our low income, and our hispanic/latino subgroups. 
 The Student Outcomes Comparison Tool shows the greatest disparity in MCAS scores between all students and 
 students with disabilities, but also some disparity between all students and our low income subgroup, and between 
 all students and our hispanic/Latino subgroup, especially in certain grade levels.  The students with disabilities 
 subgroup disparity has been the most notable disparity across all grade level MCAS results in the past ﬁve years. 
 In Lunenburg, we administer the iReady reading and math diagnostic assessments for grades K-8 in fall, winter, and 
 spring.  Looking further into this data shows the same level of disparity between students with and without 
 disabilities, and since we have data from kindergarten to 8th grade, we notice the disparity grows signiﬁcantly in 
 grade 2-8 for reading and in grades 3-6 for math based on spring 2023 and winter 2024 data.  The percent differential 
 between students with and without disabilities performing on or above grade level in reading ranged from 5-61% in 
 spring 2023 and from 9-61% in math.  Our winter 2024 iReady data shows the same trends with the differential 
 ranging from 21-61% in reading and from 7-50% in math.  Our winter data show that in grades 3 and 6 for reading and 
 8 for math, the disparity was at least 50% (between students with and without disabilities).  All of these disparities are 
===PAGE 3===
 of particular concern since our classes are heterogeneously grouped in all subject areas and grade levels other than 
 8th grade math. 
 Our commitment to evaluating, selecting, purchasing, and implementing high-quality curriculum is already proving 
 to be successful and allows us to provide common experiences for students across all grade levels and subgroups. 
 Prior to implementing HQIM, and in those content areas and grade levels which are in the process of evaluating and 
 selecting, we were seeing inconsistent learning experiences for students across many grade levels in both English 
 language arts and math, and when new teachers joined our district, we did not have comprehensive curriculum 
 materials that they could use.  As shown in the data below, after our ﬁrst year of HQIM implementation in ELA and 
 math in grades K-5, 90% of students in grades K and 1 were on or above grade level in reading by the end of the year, 
 and 70% of grade 2 students and 84% of grade 3 were on or above grade level.  In math, over 80% of students in 
 grades K and 1 were on or above grade level as of the spring. 
 Teachers across the district have adopted a two-year goal (beginning last year) of getting 80% of students on or above 
 grade level in reading and math, according to iReady benchmarks, by the spring of 2024.  We are making progress 
 towards this goal as stated above. 
 We have been working on improving our Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) process in the district and have 
 been working with DESE’s Literacy and Inclusive Practice Academies with a focus on improving tier II and III 
 interventions and support. 
 Our Views of Climate and Learning (VOCAL) data also shows a disparity in answers between all students and our 
 latino/hispanic subgroup.  All district staff have been working with a consultant since last summer on cultural 
 competence and applying the learning to their practices in order to better support all student groups. 
===PAGE 4===
 After analyzing our data at a deeper level, we have determined that the following areas need additional focus in our 
 district: 
 ●  High-Quality Curriculum Implementation in Tiers I, II, and III 
 ●  Fine-tuning our MTSS Process including Support for Early Literacy 
 ●  Improved Support for Students with Disabilities 
 What does your deeper analysis (including the triangulation of multiple types of data) suggest are the best 
 ways to address these disparities across student groups? 
 Following our deeper analysis, please ﬁnd our plan below for addressing disparities among student groups: 
 ●  High-Quality Curriculum Implementation in Tiers I, II, and III 
 We have prioritized the evaluation, selection, purchase, and implementation of high-quality curriculum 
 materials in grades K-8 in both English language arts and math.  We will need to continue to engage teachers 
 in professional development linked directly to the curriculum, improve the use of high-quality materials and 
 progress monitoring for tiers II and III, set expectations and provide support from coaches during common 
 planning time, and continue to team up with building administration to monitor the effectiveness of 
 curriculum implementation. 
 One root cause identiﬁed during our root cause analysis was that educators who are working with students for 
 tier II and III are not conﬁdent in their use of curriculum materials, assessment, and progress monitoring.  We 
 are seeing the largest disparity in performance between student groups with and without disabilities on MCAS 
 and iReady. 
===PAGE 5===
 ●  Fine-tuning our MTSS Process including Support for Early Literacy 
 We currently have MTSS teachers and tutors working with students during intervention time for tier II special 
 educators working with tier III students during intervention time at each grade level for ELA and math. 
 Classroom teachers are also providing tier II interventions during intervention and small group time in the 
 workshop model.  We need to better support all staff in creating student groupings, providing targeted 
 interventions, and progress monitoring.  We have approved screeners for early literacy in place three times per 
 year (iReady and DIBELS), but we must better organize our structures and systems for following up with 
 students who screen as having reading difﬁculty, notifying families, providing research-based interventions 
 tailored to meet the needs of each student, and progress monitoring. 
 ●  Improved Support for Students with Disabilities 
 Performance gaps exist across grade levels between students with and without disabilities which emphasizes 
 the need for better instruction, support, and progress monitoring for our students with disabilities. 
 Based on your identiﬁcation of the greatest disparities in outcomes, which student groups will require focused 
 support for rapid improvement as you implement your evidence-based programs over the next three years? 
 ●  Students with disabilities 
 ●  Low income students 
 ●  Hispanic/Latino students 
 Section 3:  Set Ambitious Three-Year Targets for Improving Student Achievement 
 Conﬁrm that your district will use DESE’s three-year targets for increasing performance for the “Lowest 
 Performing Students” group in ELA and math. 
 Yes.  Our district will adopt the three-year improvement targets established by DESE for the “Lowest Performing 
 Students” group as our district’s SOA plan improvement targets. 
===PAGE 6===
 Section 4:  Engage Families/Caregivers and other Stakeholders 
 Describe the approaches your district uses to regularly engage with family/caregivers.  In your response, please 
 be sure to address what steps you will be taking to meaningfully engage with family/caregivers of student 
 groups you are targeting for accelerated improvement as this plan is implemented. 
 Lunenburg Public Schools took part in DESE’s Family School Partnership Initiative (FSPI) during the 22-23 school year 
 and used the Massachusetts Family, School, and Community Partnership Fundamentals to reﬂect on family-school 
 partnership, and receive training, coaching, and strategic planning support to strengthen district systems for working 
 collaboratively with families/caregivers.  Our district worked with coaches/facilitators from School & Main Institute.  W 
 have established the following engagement initiatives: 
 ●  Creation of Stakeholder Group - team of stakeholders working to continue with FSPI priorities and district 
 equity audit recommendations and to advise on issues of partnership and belonging 
 ●  Family Compact - team of stakeholders working during 23-24 school year to develop a family-school compact 
 ●  Climate Surveys - surveys have been sent for the past two years to students, families, and staff to collect climate 
 data 
 ●  Open House & Parent-Teacher Conferences - each school is working to revise the open house and 
 parent-teacher conference process so that it is more engaging for families and helps to establish partnerships 
 to support student learning 
 ●  District Strategy (in Action Plan) of Cultivating Climate & Culture - Part of Lunenburg’s District Strategy Action 
 Plan is to foster a climate of safety, caring, and inclusivity for all in our district through secure facilities and 
 safety training, evidence-based social emotional and mental health curricula, and building strong staff-student 
 relationships, student peer relationships, staff peer relationships, administrator-student/staff relationships, and 
 school-family relationships. 
 ●  Communication - Weekly and bi-weekly newsletters from principals and counselors in addition to home-school 
 folders at our primary level 
 ●  Family Engagement Opportunities - school events in each building which allow families to engage with school 
 staff, school buildings, and other school families (literacy and STEM nights, sporting events, music concerts, 
 dramatic performances, etc.) 
===PAGE 7===
 ●  PACSAL Meetings - Collaborative meetings between parents of special education students, 504 parents, Title I 
 parents, EL parents, and special education leaders. 
 Describe the ways in which you engaged different stakeholder groups in the development of your three-year 
 SOA Plan.  How have you integrated the perspectives of those groups into the three-year plan?  How will you 
 continue to engage stakeholders throughout the implementation of your plan? 
 ●  We conducted root cause analyses and reviewed data during our Instructional Leadership Team meetings 
 ●  During meetings with School Advisory Councils, we reviewed data and disparities in student learning 
 experiences and outcomes and solicited feedback. 
 ●  Building leadership teams and Behavioral Health Support teams reviewed data and provided input regarding 
 needed support for mental health and social-emotional learning. 
 ●  MCAS and iReady data was sent home to families once received, and virtual meetings were held to assist 
 families with interpretation of the data. 
 ●  Public School Committee presentations were provided by our curriculum ofﬁce during the evaluation and 
 selection of high-quality materials process. 
 ●  We presented our SOA Plan to our School Committee during a public meeting and allowed weeks for 
 stakeholders and community members to provide feedback and ask questions prior to the approval of the 
 plan. 
 ●  Draft pushed out to families 
 ●  We will continue to update all district teams and stakeholder groups and solicit feedback during team 
 meetings and public meetings throughout the implementation of our plan. 
===PAGE 8===
 Section 5:  Select Evidence-Based Programs to Address Disparities in Outcomes 
 Focus Area 
 2.1 Select and skillfully implement high-quality and engaging instructional materials that support culturally and 
 linguistically sustaining practices and foster deeper learning 
 EBPs 
 2.1B Supporting Curriculum Implementation 
 Provide a short description of what your district has in place now related to this EBP and what you anticipate 
 will be in place by the conclusion of the plan’s implementation? 
 We will continue with our implementation of high-quality curriculum materials in grades K-8 for both ELA and math 
 in order to support all students with engaging instructional materials that support culturally and linguistically 
 sustaining practices and foster deeper learning.  Our process will include the following: 
 ●  Purchase and proceed with ﬁrst year implementation of high-quality math materials for grades 6-8 following 
 the evaluation and selection process provided by DESE’s Evaluating and Selecting High-Quality Materials 
 Network 
 ●  Continue with implementation of new high-quality English language arts materials in grades K-5, Into Reading, 
 and 6-8, Amplify, and for math in grades K-5, Into Math 
 ●  Measure implementation through common planning time meetings, classroom walkthroughs, and 
 module/unit assessment and writing data 
 ●  Fine tune classroom walkthrough tools with Instructional Leadership Team to monitor curriculum 
 implementation 
 ●  Provide common, grade level experiences for all students across teachers and teams 
 ●  Provide ongoing professional development for content area teachers for curriculum materials and strategies for 
 using high-quality materials in tier I, II, and III, and for ensuring that HQIM are accessible to all students 
 ●  Provide training on evidence-based interventions using high-quality materials 
 ●  Provide training and implement benchmark assessments and progress monitoring for students with reading 
 and math difﬁculty after providing targeted interventions 
===PAGE 9===
 Which schools will be impacted by these efforts? 
 Lunenburg Primary School 
 Turkey Hill Elementary School 
 Lunenburg Middle School 
 What is the anticipated amount of funding that will be allocated to this EBP over the next three years, across all 
 funding sources? 
 $906,435 
 Describe the anticipated allocation of funds to this EBP in more detail. 
 ●  Curriculum materials (yearly digital subscriptions and student consumables) & professional development 
 $306,435 
 ●  Literacy and math specialists/coaches $600,000 
 Which budget foundation categories will be included in this anticipated annual allocation? 
 Professional development, Instructional Materials, Classroom & Specialist Teachers 
 What metrics will your district use to monitor progress on this EBP?  Please keep in mind that you will be asked 
 to report on progress against these metrics in your annual update to DESE starting next year. 
 ●  Increase in number of students on or above grade level according to iReady spring benchmarks in reading and 
 math K-8.  Goal is for 80% of students to be on or above grade level. 
 ●  Increase in number of students meeting or exceeding on 3-8 ELA and math MCAS 
 ●  Decrease in differential between students with and without disabilities performing on or above grade level on 
 iReady and meeting or exceeding on MCAS 
 ● 
===PAGE 10===
 Focus Area 
 2.1 Select and skillfully implement high-quality and engaging instructional materials that support culturally and 
 linguistically sustaining practices and foster deeper learning 
 EBPs 
 2.1C Comprehensive Approach to Early Literacy 
 Provide a short description of what your district has in place now related to this EBP and what you anticipate 
 will be in place by the conclusion of the plan’s implementation? 
 We have been working with DESE’s Literacy Academy to develop a comprehensive approach to early literacy which 
 will include the following: 
 ●  Early literacy screening assessments (iReady and DIBELS already in place) 
 ●  Developing a literacy assessment ﬂowchart designed to support educators in making informed literacy 
 instruction decisions from the information provided by the universal screener data and observed student 
 performance.   As a result of using this resource, educators should be equipped to take informed action to 
 support student learning within classroom instruction and progress monitoring. 
 ●  Implementing evidence-based interventions and specially designed instruction to address individual student 
 needs, both inside the classroom from classroom teachers, by our MTSS staff, and by our special education 
 teachers. 
 ●  Providing ongoing professional development for teachers, special educators, and MTSS staff through literacy 
 specialist and external PD providers for evidence-based interventions 
 ●  Hiring a literacy specialist (our previous specialist retired) to support teachers and staff with early literacy 
 ●  Teachers using high-quality materials for core instruction, tiered interventions, and specially designed 
 instruction 
 ●  Fine tune classroom walkthrough tools with Instructional Leadership Team to monitor early literacy approach 
 and process 
 ●  Refer students who screen for reading difﬁculty to our Student Support Team 
===PAGE 11===
 Which schools will be impacted by these efforts? 
 Lunenburg Primary School 
 Turkey Hill Elementary School 
 What is the anticipated amount of funding that will be allocated to this EBP over the next three years, across all 
 funding sources? 
 $782,000 
 Describe the anticipated allocation of funds to this EBP in more detail. 
 ●  MTSS Staff $707,000 
 ●  Professional Development $15,000 
 ●  iReady Assessment $60,000 
 ●  (Coach listed in other EBP will also play a role in this EBP.) 
 Which budget foundation categories will be included in this anticipated annual allocation? 
 Professional Development, Classroom & Specialist Teachers, Instructional Materials, Equipment & Technology 
 What metrics will your district use to monitor progress on this EBP?  Please keep in mind that you will be asked 
 to report on progress against these metrics in your annual update to DESE starting next year. 
 ●  Decrease the number of student who screen for reading difﬁculty according to iReady and DIBELS 
 ●  Increase the number of student performing on or above grade level in reading in grades K-3 according to 
 iReady spring benchmarks 
 ●  Increase the percent of students meeting or exceeding on grade 3 ELA MCAS 
 ●  Increase in evidence-based interventions provided as measured by classroom walkthroughs and MTSS data 
===PAGE 12===
 Focus Area 
 2.2 Use the MTSS process to implement academic supports and interventions that provide all students, particularly 
 students with disabilities and multilingual learners, equitable access to deeper learning 
 EBPs 
 2.2B High Leverage Practices for Students with Disabilities 
 Provide a short description of what your district has in place now related to this EBP and what you anticipate 
 will be in place by the conclusion of the plan’s implementation? 
 We currently have a special education teacher at every grade level but need to improve our high leverage practices for 
 students with disabilities including the following: 
 ●  Train all staff in high-leverage instructional practices designed for students with disabilities 
 ●  Literacy and math specialist to work with special education teachers to assist with developing scaffolded 
 supports, explicit instruction, grouping, and adapting curriculum and tasks based on students’ speciﬁc learning 
 goals 
 Which schools will be impacted by these efforts? 
 Lunenburg Primary School 
 Turkey Hill Elementary School 
 Lunenburg Middle School 
 What is the anticipated amount of funding that will be allocated to this EBP over the next three years, across all 
 funding sources? 
 $2,764,478 
===PAGE 13===
 Describe the anticipated allocation of funds to this EBP in more detail. 
 ●  Special Education Teachers (K-8) $2,149,478 
 ●  Professional Development $15,000 
 ●  (Literacy and Math Specialists/Coaches included in other EBP will also be involved in this EBP.) 
 Which budget foundation categories will be included in this anticipated annual allocation? 
 Classroom & Specialist Teachers, Professional Development, Special Services 
 What metrics will your district use to monitor progress on this EBP?  Please keep in mind that you will be asked 
 to report on progress against these metrics in your annual update to DESE starting next year. 
 ●  Increase in percentage of students with disabilities meeting or exceeding and in SGP on MCAS 
 ●  Increase in percentage of students with disabilities scoring on or above grade level on iReady 