===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM EVALUATION OVERVIEW 
SCHOOL YEAR 2020-2021 
Summarized by: Sharon Faucher, Educational Consultant 
 
FOCUS AREA: 
Hybrid/Remote Special Education Instruction 
 
PURPOSE: 
The District wanted to obtain feedback from staff who had to implement with out undue delay 
Hybrid/Remote Instruction during School Year 2020 -2021, due to the Covid -19 pandemic. The 
District wanted to determine what aspects went well, what aspects were challenging and  
recommendations to improve such instruction. 
 
EVALUATION DESIGN: 
A DRAFT survey was developed by the Consultant and modified by the Director of Special 
Education. The survey was then disseminated on Google Drive so that staff could easily 
complete and results could be analyzed. See sample survey disseminated. 
 
FINDINGS: 
Of 94 surveys disseminated, 51 responses were submitted, yielding a 54% return rate.   
Out of the 51 responses received, 49% were from Special Education Teachers/Related Service 
Providers and 51% were from Paraprofessionals.  
Result percentages and numbers are further broken down by each school building. 
What is significant to note is that ALL staff indicated that they were able to deliver services on a 
student’s IEP – either completely as a “YES” response or “SOMEWHAT”.   
Staff made specific recommendations about how hybrid/remote instruction could be improved 
– “the one thing they would chang e”. For a complete, detailed review of all staff responses and 
survey responses, refer to Survey Responses. 
 
===PAGE 2===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM EVALUATION SUMMARY 
SCHOOL YEAR 2020-2021 
PAGE 2 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMENDATIONS: 
The District is to be commended for its review of hybrid/remote instruction and to build upon 
best practices identified by staff for future use in their classroom.  ALL staff felt that they met 
student needs at least somewhat or completely during this mode of instruction, which had to 
be implemented without much time to plan and in the midst of a pandemic. 
 
 
RECOMMENDATIONS: 
1. Share the results of the survey as a group with applicable stakeholders – 
Administrators and Special Education Staff who completed the survey 
 
2. Identify and share with colleagues’  specific practices staff would like to 
continue in their classroom, as well as what support//training is needed to  
facilitate best practice instruction 
 
3. In the event, remote/hybrid learning occurs in the future, establish  
consistent protocols/procedures for staff in order to implement best  
practice techniques identified above in number 2  
 
4. Determine if this is a survey that General Education Leadership would want 
General Education to complete; an analysis of how this compa res to the 
Special Education Staff findings could be useful to the District 
 
5. Continue to develop/follow a three-year program evaluation schedule to 
ensure that special education programs/services are evaluated at least 
once every three years. 