===PAGE 1===
 
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 5200 
ORGANIZATION OF INSTRUCTION 5201 
CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION 5201.01 
 
The School Committee believes that materials appropriate to the needs of the school 
program must be available to each student and teacher. These will be furnished by the 
School Committee subject to budgetary constraints. 
The task of selecting instructional materials for programs will be delegated to the professional staff 
of the school system. The Committee expects the fa culty and administration to regularly evaluate 
the education program and to recommend modifications of practice, changes in curriculum content, 
and the addition or deletion of courses to the instructional program. 
 
The Superintendent will have authority to  approve new programs and courses of study after they 
have been thoroughly studied and found to support educational goals. The Committee itself will 
consider, and officially adopt, new programs and courses when they constitute an extensive 
alteration in instructional content or approach. 
 
The Committee wishes to be informed of all new courses and substantive revisions in curriculum. It 
will receive reports on changes under consideration. Its acceptance of these reports, including a 
listing of the high school program of studies, will constitute its adoption of the curriculum for official 
purposes. 
 
Because instructional programs and materials are of great importance, only those that 
meet the following criteria will be approved by the Committee: 
1. They must present fact-based views of international, national, and local issues 
and problems of the past, present and future. 
2. They must provide materials that stimulate growth in factual knowledge, 
literary appreciation, aesthetic and ethical values. 
3. They must help students develop abilities in critical reading and thinking. 
 
4. They must help develop and foster an appreciation of cultural diversity 
and development in the United States and throughout the world. 
5. They must provide for all students an effective basic education that does not 
discriminate on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, 
 
sex, gender identity, age, sexual orientation, ancestry, athletic performance, physical 
handicap, special need, academic performance or proficiency in the English 
language or pregnancy or pregnancy related conditions. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or 
employment or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national 
origin, ancestry, ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, 
sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran 
status, natural and protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals 
protected from discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons 
who have reported possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted 
in an investigation, or who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also 
prohibited.  Students and staff who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to 
and including expulsion or dismissal. 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment 
free from discrimination on the basis of race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, 
gender identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, 
age, citizenship status, veteran status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, 
language spoken, genetic information or disability, as defined and required by state and 
federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against individuals who oppose such 
discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal opportunity investigation. 
 
*race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair                 
texture, hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
6. They must allow sufficient flexibility for meeting the special needs of 
individual students and groups of students. 
 
SOURCE: MASC 
      LEGAL REFS.: M.G.L. 71:48; 71:49; 71:50, 69:1E 
BESE regulations 603 CMR 26.05 
 
LEGAL REF.:  Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - 
      https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
      M.G.L. 71:83 
     SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 2022 
     Revised: December 2, 2004 
     Updated & Approved: November 7, 2012, March 25, 2020; December 16, 2020 