===PAGE 1===
Below you will find the places in the new Charter and 
current bylaws where school/School Committee are 
referenced.  We have been asked by the Bylaw Committee 
to review these spots and make sure the bylaws don’t 
contradict the Charter and that the Bylaws reflect current 
practice.  The Charter is set and will not be reviewed for 9 
years.  The Bylaws are currently under revision. 
 
The task will be introduced at our 11/3 meeting and we will 
vote on our submission to the Bylaw Committee on 11/17. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHARTER 
SECTION 3-3SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
(a)  
Composition, Term of Office - There shall be a school committee consisting of 
5 members elected for terms of 3 years each, so arranged that the term of office 
of as nearly an equal number of members as is possible shall expire each year. 
(b)  
Powers and Duties - The school committee shall have all powers which are 
conferred on school committees by general laws and such additional powers 
and duties as may be provided by the charter, by -law or otherwise and 
consistent with said grant of powers conferred by general laws. The powers and 
duties of the school committee shall include the following: 
(1)  
To appoint a superintendent of the schools who shall be charged with the day-
to-day administration of the school system, subject only to policy guidelines and 
directives adopted by the school committee; 
[Amended 8-20-2020 by Ch. 167, Acts of 2020] 
(2)  
===PAGE 2===
To make all reasonable rules and regulations for the management of the public 
school system and for conducting the business of the school committee as the 
committee deems necessary or desirable; and 
(3)  
To adopt and administer an annual operating budget for the school department, 
subject to appropriation by the town meeting. The school committee shall have 
general charge and superintendence of all school buildings and grounds and 
shall furnish all school buildings with proper fixtures, furniture and equipment. 
The school committee shall provide ordinary maintenance of all school buildings 
and grounds; provided, however, that the town meeting may, by by-law, provide 
for the establishment of a central municipal maintenance department which may 
include maintenance of school buildings and grounds. Whenever the school 
committee shall determine that additional classrooms are necessary to meet 
the educational needs of the community, at least 1 member of the schoo l 
committee, or a designee of the school committee, shall serve on the agency, 
board or committee to which the planning or construction of such new, 
remodeled or renovated school building is delegated. 
 
 
 
BYLAWS 
 
 
§ 332-7.22School speed zones.  
In accordance with MGL c. 90, §  17, no operator shall run at a speed greater 
than 20 miles per hour in an established school zone as designated in Schedule 
VII of these Traffic Rules and Orders. 
 
 
§ 332-19.1MPH school zones.  
 
 
===PAGE 3===
School Street/Direction 
Flashing School Zone 
Sign Location Time 
Turkey Hill 
Elementary School 
Northfield Road/ both 
directions 
Oak Avenue to a point 
650 feet south 
Oak Avenue to a point 
244.1 feet north 
When 
flashing 
 
Oak Avenue/ both 
directions 
Northfield Road to a 
point 1438.6 feet west 
When 
flashing 
 
 
 
 