===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Middle SchoolGrades 6-8Student Handbook
Name______________________________________
Homeroom__________
PHILOSOPHYSchool is a place where many people come together to learn and grow.  It is a place to learn how to make choices.  Learning occurs everywhere and at all times.  At this school formal education, which is an essential part of learning, happens best when students and teachers are free of distractions.
We believe that each student and each teacher has the following rights:
1. To work in pleasant, safe, and comfortable surroundings2. Freedom from insulting or abusive treatment from others3. To have an atmosphere that encourages learning
Our rules are designed to protect these rights.
Remember,The MAIN GOAL in school is EDUCATION!  At Lunenburg Middle School we promote respect TO and FOR all children and adults.
On the other hand: 1. No one is perfect.  Sometimes a student will have a bad day.  There are times when one is easily distracted.  If this is the case, an honest, apologetic attitude with the teacher will help.  A desire to improve is what counts.  A few mistakes will not be held against anyone.2. Rules apply to all.  No one individual is singled out for special favors or punishment.
IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITYTo be prepared each day.To have what you will needwhen you need it.To be where you are supposed to bewhen you are supposed to be there.To do what you are asked to doby those in authority,when you are asked to do it.
STUDENT HANDBOOK 2024-2025Lunenburg Middle School VisionEach child will become a self-motivated, creative, life long learner in a safe, stimulating environment, which encourages diversity and open, honest communication.
Lunenburg Middle School PhilosophyLunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 1
===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Middle School focuses on an educational process that recognizes and provides for the uniqueness of the individual.  This is accomplished by a program that is intellectually challenging and recognizes the students' academic, emotional, physical, aesthetic, and social needs.
Lunenburg Middle School Core Values--Quality education cultivates problem solving, independent thinking, and multiple points of view.--Effective education addresses the whole child, involves authentic engagement, and provides multiple pathways to success.--Students must be provided with an academically and personally safe environment that promotes effective learning.--Students should be provided with opportunities to develop initiative and responsibility which will help them become active and supportive community members.  --Focused, sustained professional development and reflective practice are fundamental to excellence in teaching.--Strong collaboration and open communication among school staff, students, families, and the community develop mutual respect and trust, and enhance students’ ability to succeed.--Resourcing decisions should be responsible, address critical needs, and put students first.Lunenburg Public School MissionThe Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 2

===PAGE 3===
WHAT IS A MIDDLE SCHOOL?As you settle into the Lunenburg Middle School, you will see that our school is designed for students your age.  It will be different from the elementary school you left at the end of fifth grade, and it will be different from the high school that you will attend following eighth grade.This is a time for you to explore.  You will discover new skills and areas of success and develop new interests.  The time to expand your knowledge and venture into new areas is now . . . before you have to specialize in high school and later on as an adult.A goal of our school is to ensure that you grow and learn.  Your teachers will encourage you to think for yourself, to learn the art of asking useful questions, to seek answers on your own, and to study effectively.  They will also emphasize the following skills:1. Organizing materials, time, and information.2. Knowing how and when to ask for help.3. Listening carefully and following directions.4. Beginning and completing an assignment or task.You will use several different ways of helping yourself learn.  Sometimes you will learn from information your teacher gives you.  Sometimes you will work by yourself.  There will be times that you work with your friends or other students in the classroom.  Group and class projects will teach you many things, including how to work well with others.  During your stay at the middle school you may discover the way in which you learn best.  It could be by listening, by reading, or by creating something with your hands.  It might even be all of these.A middle school is a busy and friendly place to grow . . . naturally.Middle School Philosophies/ Teaming Lunenburg Middle School 6-8 embraces an interdisciplinary teaming model of a highly functioning middle school philosophy. Our building is co-located with Lunenburg High School and though our middle school classrooms are separate, we do share spaces with grades 9-12. Grades are divided into smaller groups of “interdisciplinary teams".  Each team has its own group of teachers. The concept of teaming provides a better chance for teachers and students to get to know each other.  Because teachers will know all their students very well, they can individualize their instruction and common plan to ensure every student reaches their potential.  In this way, all students should find it easier to do their best work. An important characteristic of teaming is frequent team meetings.  While you and your classmates are in the gym, working in an art room, or taking part in any other exploratory subject, your team teachers are meeting together.  Teachers discuss their students at these meetings, and by doing so can often prevent any small problems from becoming big ones.  This time is also used by your teachers to plan their classroom programs or special team units, and to hold parent conferences.An advantage of teaming for students is the opportunity it gives one to make new friends.  Sometimes making friends is hard to do in a large school.  The smaller team provides a comfortable place to get to know others.
RULES AND REGULATIONSARTICLES NOT ALLOWED IN SCHOOL DURING SCHOOL HOURS● Games, water pistols, “look-alike” toy weapons● Animals not deemed as service animals● Aerosols, incendiary devices, toxic glue, white-out
CELL PHONESIf you carry a cell phone or iPod to school for personal use before or after school is in session, you may not use it during school hours without permission. Any electronic communication device must be turned off while school is in session.  All cell phones must not be audible or visible and may be confiscated if they disturb a class or if students are observed using a cell phone during the school day.  Students may be subject to disciplinary consequences for cell phone use.  The school is not responsible for damaged, lost, or stolen electronic equipment.
ILLEGAL ARTICLES● Firearms*, ammunition, knives, sharp instruments, any weapon● Tobacco products, matches, lighters, pipes● Alcohol and drugs not prescribed by a physician   *Possession of a firearm on school grounds is a crime in Massachusetts (Chapter 150 of Acts of 1987 to G.L.C. 269 s.10)
CLASSROOM DETENTIONSStudents will be notified by a staff member of the offense which has been committed, and the time and date of the detention.  Lunch detentions may be given during the school day.  Written notice to parents is provided 24 hours prior to the date of an after school detention.  Detention notices are returned to school with the signature of a parent.
CENTRAL DETENTIONSStudents are notified in writing by an administrator of the infraction, and the time and date of detention.  This notice to parents is provided 24 hours prior to the date of detention.  Notices are returned to school with the signature of a parent.  Central detention is held from 2:40 – 3:30 PM on Mondays and Wednesdays.  Students are encouraged to bring work to do.  Students who do not report to assigned detentions will receive additional consequences.  (See CODE OF CONDUCT)  Parent conferences may be required. Due to the nature of detentions, students must make arrangements for transportation home or parents may write a note giving permission for the student to walk after detention. In extreme cases, parents may be called during the day to remove their child from school on suspension.
PARENT CONFERENCESThe staff and administration seek parent conferences to solve problems and to assure student success in school.  Administrative conferences are required following a suspension and following ten days of repeated detentions.
BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDSStudents must not ride their bicycles or skateboard in parking lot areas or on the sidewalks before or after school when buses, cars, students, staff, and parents are in the area.  Students are expected to walk their bicycles or carry their skateboards during high traffic times.  Bicycles should be kept 
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 3
===PAGE 4===
locked in the bike rack.  The school is not responsible for damaged or stolen bicycles or equipment.  Students must wear helmets as required by law and follow the rules of the road.  Students who create a safety hazard will not be allowed to ride their bicycle or skateboard to school.
BOOKS AND EQUIPMENTThe school system provides most textbooks and equipment needed by students.  These are on loan.  Students who lose or damage any school property must reimburse the Town of Lunenburg for the loss or damage.  Books are to be kept covered at all times. 
BUSESBus transportation is a privilege.  Eligible students are assigned to a specific bus.  Orderly conduct is necessary for safety.  Students must keep hands and head inside the bus at all times.  Throwing objects out of windows or tampering with any part of the bus is forbidden.  Talking in conversational tones while seated, courteous manners andkeeping the bus clean is expected. Consequences such as exclusion from transportation, detention, and assigned seating may result from inappropriate conduct. 
HEALTH & SAFETYLunenburg Public Schools recognizes that the health and safety of students is a priority. Students should be familiar with district health protocols which are posted electronically in the Parent Handbooks on each school website and on the School Health Services web page.  Topics include: School Health Services, Screenings, Physical Exams,  Accidents, Hospitalizations and extended absences, Communicable Diseases, Dismissal from school, Immunizations, Life threatening allergies, Medications,  Dental services, Safety and Crisis teams and Wellness Policy.  
CAFETERIAFree meals will no longer be available in the 2022-2023 school year. Meals are available at no cost when 
students take a full reimbursable meal
.  The cost of a of an additional hot lunch is $3.50 per meal. Lunch cannot be paid for in the lunch line.  Checks should be made out to Town of Lunenburg, along with student name, ID #, and the notation “middle school lunch” listed or cash (envelopes available in the front office) should be deposited in cash boxes located in the front lobby when students arrive at school. These payments are picked up on a daily basis. Payment can also be made online through RevTrak.  A RevTrak tutorial can be found at the following link:
  Revtrak tutorial.mp4 Students should provide their ID # card for staff to scan and expedite the lunch line
A La Carte is available for student to build and purchase meals to their liking. Students are not 
individual students are not permitted to attend a particular field trip due to inappropriate behavior in school or on previous field trips.
GUIDANCEThe guidance department at Lunenburg Middle School works to help the student learn how to become a self reliant, responsible individual with the self-esteem and confidence to succeed in school and in the process of growing into adulthood.  The counselors help students assess their abilities, interests and needs by meeting with them in groups and individually.  Students can depend upon the guidance department for assistance with the selection of classes and the high school placement process.   Counselors are available to meet with students on a drop-in or appointment basis to discuss all elements of personal/school life.  Though students are encouraged to make appointments, they should never hesitate to ask any staff member, teacher, counselor or administrator for help at any time.
HARASSMENTEvery student and teacher at Lunenburg Middle School has the right to feel secure from any form of physical or verbal harassment from the time he or she leaves home to go to school until he/she returns home and also at all school sponsored events.  Teachers are required to report cases of verbal and/or physical harassment or hazing.  Any form of abuse to the student or teacher, verbal or physical, should be reported to the principal or assistant principal.   In the case of physical assault local police may be   notified.Harassment that occurs outside of school in the form of threats and other inappropriate exchanges that are communicated on the Internet or through the use of cell phones and text messaging fall under the jurisdiction of the police unless the offenses occur during school time.  If a parent or child reads something online that indicates someone may be in danger, always report that incident to the police.
LOCKERSStudents will be assigned a locker in which to keep hats, coats, book bags, and materials related to school life.  Items, which are not necessary for school or are illegal, are not allowed in school.  Lockers will be searched by the principal or assistant principal if there is reasonable suspicion that there is something illegal, dangerous, or disruptive to the operation of the school.Lunenburg Public School Policy states:---Any search of a student or of school property assigned to a specific student may be made only if school authorities have reasonable cause to believe that the property contains an item, the possession of which constitutes a crime, violation of student rules or threatens a disruption of the educational process.  When possible, the student involved will be asked to be present.---The school retains the right to inspect lockers and desks periodically for compliance with school rules.  Two administrators conduct searches.---The items which are not permitted in school, lockers or desks are weapons, illegal drugs, alcoholic beverages and stolen property.
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 4
===PAGE 5===
allowed to charge a la carte items they must have funds on their accounts.
3701.02  MEAL CHARGING POLICY ADOPTED 
3-1-23.pdf
 
 
Appropriate etiquette is expected in the cafeteria.  Students are to sit and talk to fellow students in a normal conversational tone and not to walk or run around the cafeteria. Students are expected to enter and exit in an orderly fashion, clean their area, and 
return trays, dishes, and silverware.
 The cafeteria is the appropriate place for eating food.  Drinks, candy, and food are not allowed in classrooms except water in a clearly marked container.
 FIELD TRIPS
Appropriate behavior is mandatory on all school field trips.  Permission slips are required for each trip.  The faculty and administration may, as a disciplinary measure, notify parents and students in advance that MAINTENANCE OF SCHOOL AND GROUNDSStudents will clean up after themselves in hallways, bathrooms, classrooms, the cafeteria, and on school grounds; not write on or destroy school property in any way; keep their lockers neat, clean and free of writing, pictures and debris; and stay out of other students' lockers or suffer disciplinary consequences.Students are encouraged to participate in the LMHS recycling program in the cafeteria and in the classrooms.
SOCIAL EVENTSThere are a variety of activities planned during the year.  Only the students for whom the activity is planned may attend.  Once the students arrive, they should not assume that they may come and go as they please.  A student may not leave an event unless a parent or guardian enters the building and informs a chaperone of the early departure.  Only Lunenburg Middle School 6-8 students may attend school-sponsored events.  Students are not permitted to attend school social events if they were absent from school on that day.All the usual behavior guidelines and consequences apply to social events.  Staff and parents will chaperone all the activities and parents will receive the same respect and courtesy as teachers when chaperoning.  Students may be excluded from such events for disciplinary reasons.
SUPERVISION FOR SAFETYStudents are encouraged to stay after school to meet with teachers or to participate in an authorized activity. In all instances, students must be supervised by an adult   to ensure their safety.
SCHOOL DAY DELIVERIESPlease be aware that all items delivered during the school day is your responsibility to pick up at the office.   You will not be called down when it arrives!
HONOR ROLLHonor roll is calculated for seventh and eighth grade students every quarter and for sixth grade in the second, third, and fourth quarters. Special honor students must have an A-, A, or A+ in every subject reported that quarter, including special areas.  Honor students must have all A’s (A-, A, or A+) and B’s (B-, B or B+) in all subject areas reported that quarter, including special areas, with at least two of the A’s in a core subject area such as English Language Arts, Science, Mathematics,Social Studies,and 8th grade Foreign Language)
.
Quarterly Honor Roll Breakfasts are held at LMHS to celebrate and commemorate the success of student achievement with parents and guardians.
TARDINESS TO SCHOOLStudents are expected to be in school on time.  If a student arrives at or after 8:00 AM he/she must report to the office before reporting to homeroom or class.  A pass from the office is required for the student to enter a classroom after school has begun.When a student arrives late to school, a note from the parent must be presented to the office.  A doctor note constitutes an excused tardy. HOMEWORK POLICYHomework in the middle school is used to enhance the classroom learning experience.  Homework should have a relationship to the ongoing educational program and should be connected to learning objectives that reflect and support the middle school curricula, State Frameworks, and MCAS preparation and remediation.  Based on research, the school recognizes that a reasonable amount of study and preparation is necessary for scholastic growth of all students.  There are usually four types of homework assignments, that may be given to achieve different results: ● Drill and practice exercises reinforce new concepts or review skills not yet mastered.
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 5
===PAGE 6===
VISITORSVisitors are requested to ring the bell outside the main entrance, introduce themselves, and they will be electronically buzzed into the building.  A valid form of ID may be requested.
USE OF THE OFFICE AND CELL PHONESPhone use is not permitted during school except in extreme emergencies or with staff permission. Students should only ask to use the office phone in emergency situations. Unless a teacher requestsa student to stay after for extra help, all after school plans need to be arranged the night before.
GRADING AND REPORTING POLICYIt is the philosophy of the school system that students, teachers, and parents/guardians working together can help all students achieve.  The purpose of grading is to improve student performance through timely and specific feedback on performance compared to a standard.  Grading and reporting practices will be fair and meaningful and support rigorous performance and achievement standards for all students.  Grades will have consistent meaning throughout the school system and be based on grade level and course expectations as outlined in the curriculum.
● Some assignments prepare students for the next day’s activities.  Such assignments include reading        ahead in a textbook, novel, or periodical; studying material for a review, contest, quiz, or test.● Homework may extend or enrich classroom activities.  These assignments, more long term in nature, stress individuality, creativity, and thinking skills.  Examples are projects, research, challenges, and outside reading.● Written expression is emphasized in all content areas.  Outlining, note-taking, summarizing, answering questions in complete sentences, open-responses, lab reports, and creative writing are types of assignments students would work on at home.
Agendas are provided for the students to record their assignments.  Many teachers also post their homework on www.schoolnotes.com and their grades on the Parent Portal.  Because of the team approach, teachers closely monitor the amount and kind of homework that is given.  The goals of homework are to foster initiative and responsibility and also bring the home and school together in a common bond.
Guidelines for Time and Frequency● Usually by the time a student gets to middle school age, he/she should generally expect between one and two hours of homework a night.  Understand that what takes 1/2 hour for some might take more or less time for others.  If a homework assignment takes more than this guideline, parents should feel comfortable providing a note to the classroom teacher.  Parent feedback will assist teachers in monitoring and evaluating the amount of homework assigned.● Students are encouraged to pursue non-assigned, independent, leisure reading.● Sometimes students are given major projects, which could include research reports, major writing assignments, book reports, and other assignments teachers designate as major projects.  More time is given for these types of assignments.  Actual time to complete these kinds of assignments will vary with each student’s study habits, planning, and time management.  Work on these projects may occasionally exceed the maximum minutes per night.● Homework will not be given over vacation or holiday weekends unless time is needed to catch up on incomplete work or to work on long term assignments.  The due date for these types of assignments should not be the day after the vacation or holiday weekend.Vacation During School Time● When a student leaves for a vacation not scheduled during a school vacation, it is the policy that the student will receive his/her missed assignments upon returning to school.● While recognizing and appreciating that vacation experiences may offer a student valuable learning opportunities, the staff believes that classroom instruction, class discussions, and class activities cannot be replicated.  Indeed it is the school’s responsibility to note that a student’s grades may be 
Teacher Responsibilities● Provide team/teacher homework policy in written form at the beginning of the school year.● Be sure the students understand and know how to complete assignments successfully.  Opportunity should be provided during regular class time to monitor the students’ understanding of the assignment.● Be flexible when made aware of student homework overload.● Avoid routine assignments over holiday and vacation time.● Provide specific written explanations and timelines for long-range assignments and group projects so that the requirements and expectations are clearly understood by the students and the parents.● Understand that no teacher should fail to assign homework when, in his/her judgment, homework is required to accomplish academic goals and objectives.● Assess (feedback, check in, grading, etc.) homework in light of lesson objectives to be accomplished because homework is considered part of the learning process.Student Responsibilities● Listen carefully and ask questions about the directions concerning the homework assignments.● Record assignments clearly and accurately in the agenda books on a daily basis.● Organize assignments in such a way as to prevent taking home unneeded books.● Take home and return to school all necessary materials.● Keep binders organized.● Commit to a consistent time and place to complete homework.● Complete homework neatly and carefully, on time,              and according to teacher guidelines. ● Complete homework independently.  Do not copy or
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 6
===PAGE 7===
               affected by his/her absence from school.● After returning to school, a student is granted five days to gather and complete the missed assignments.
Lunenburg Middle School recognizes that when a child is out sick, the number one goal is to have the child recuperate.Every attempt will be made to provide homework for students who are out sick for at least two (2) full consecutive days when requests are made to the office before 9:00 am and it is understood that the assignment packet will not be ready for pick up until the end of that day.  For illnesses of brief duration, students should obtain assignments from other members or schoolnotes.com  ● If a student is absent, assignments that were given before the absence are due on the day he/she returns.  It is the student’s responsibility to see that they are handed in to the teacher.● Assignments given on the day the student was absent will be due within 24 hours of the day he/she returns.● If a student is absent for more than one day, the teacher will establish due dates with the student.● It is the student’s responsibility to see all teachers from classes that are missed to find out work that is due.
DRESS CODE Dress Code:  Policy 5412(excerpt below)Students should dress appropriately adding to a positive, productive school environment. Student dress is unacceptable if it is a distraction to the learning process, is considered to be offensive, or if it affects the health, rights, and/or safety of the person or others. Clothing, jewelry, or related apparel which refers to alcohol, drugs, tobacco, profanity, or suggestive double-meaning will not be permitted. Students who do not adhere to the dress code will be dealt with in a disciplinary manner.Administration retains the right to prohibit any clothing not mentioned that is deemed a distraction from the educational process. Administration will make judgments on any questionable attire on a case-by-case basis and make modifications to this code at its discretion. Exceptions to the code may be approved by the administration for instances such as Spirit Week, athletics, religious and/or medical circumstances
STANDARDS FOR STUDENT DRESSStudents are expected to exercise responsibility and good judgment in all behavioral matters including their style of dress.Students should dress in a manner consistent with the academic nature of our school as well as reflecting sensitivity to and respect for the rights of others.  Articles of clothing which are distracting or disruptive to the educational process, which violate common standards of decency and modesty, which display words, slogans, pictures, etc. which are obscene, disruptive, and/or advocate or are symbolic of illegal behaviors, such as direct references to drugs, gangs, alcohol etc. are not acceptable. Hoods may not be worn over a student's head at any time.  Although hats may be worn in the building, teachers have the authority to require students to remove their hats while in class. 
               plagiarize homework assignments.  If difficulties develop, seek guidance from a teacher or parent.  ● Practice good study habits and produce high quality work.
Parent Responsibilities● Support and cooperate with the school’s homework policy.● Provide the student with a quiet, well-lit place to study along with the necessary supplies and resources.● Schedule student and family activities to allow for homework time.● Encourage independent work so that teachers may assess the student’s understanding.● Guide or assist in homework when unusual difficulties arise.● Emphasize the importance of responsibility and the need for systematic study in completing assignments.Encourage your child to do his/her best, not simply the minimum.● Coordinate homework efforts with the teacher if a student frequently has trouble managing homework. ● Maintain a high level of awareness regarding your child’s academic progress.  Check Powerschool regularly.
      community from immediate, serious, physical harm; and2. To prevent or minimize any harm to the student as a result of the use of physical restraint.Refer to 603CMR 46.02 for more information.
TRANSLATION AVAILABLEIf you need translation of any information in your native language, please contact Julianna Hanscom at (978) 582- 4100 ext. 5213 or email to jhanscom@lunenburgonline.com .
Si vous nécessitez une traduction de ce document dans votre langue maternelle, veuillez contacter Julianna Hanscom au (978) 582-4100 le poste  5213 ou bien par courrier électronique à jhanscom@lunenburgonline.com .
Si se necesita este documento traducido al español, favor de llamar al Julianna Hanscom, al número 978-582-4100, ext.  5213, o envúele un mensaje por correo electrónico a jhanscom@lunenburgonline.com .
GENERAL GUIDELINESGeneral Laws Chapter 76, Section 5 now includes the following provision:  
 No person shall be excluded from or discriminated against in admission to a public school or any town, or in obtaining the advantages, privileges and courses of study of such public school on account of race, color, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin or sexual orientation.
SECTION 504 POLICY STATEMENTIt is the policy of the Board of Education to provide a free and appropriate public education to each student with a disability within its jurisdiction, regardless of the nature or severity of the disability.
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 7
===PAGE 8===
Any staff member who feels that a student’s dress is in violation of this policy may send that student to the office where the principal or assistant principal will make the final determination.  Students who fail to comply with the LHS dress code may face disciplinary consequences, be asked to change clothing, or be sent home. Parents will be contacted.
DISTRICT POLICIES
DISCRIMINATION POLICYLunenburg Public Schools does not discriminate because of an individual’s race, creed, ancestry, color, sex, age, religion, handicap or disability, marital, home or veterans status, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity. pregnancy or pregnancy related conditions, or any other legally protected status (in compliance with Titles I, VI, VII, IX and Section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973, McKinney-Vento Act)
PHYSICAL RESTRAINT OF STUDENTSMaintaining an orderly, safe environment conducive to learning is an expectation of all staff members of the LPS. Further, students of the system are protected by law from the unreasonable use of physical restraint.  Physical restraint shall be used only in emergency situations after other less intrusive alternatives have failed or been deemed inappropriate, and with extreme caution. School personnel shall use physical restraint with two goals in mind: 1. To administer a physical restraint only when needed to protect a student and/or a member of the school 
It is the intent of the Lunenburg Public Schools to ensure that students who are disabled within the definition of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 are identified, evaluated and provided with appropriate educational services. Students may be disabled under this policy even though they do not require services pursuant to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Due process rights of students with disabilities and their parents under Section 504 will be enforced. The  Director of Special Services is the coordinator of Section 504 activities.
SECTION 504/TITLE II GRIEVANCE PROCEDUREThe Lunenburg Public School  has adopted an internal grievance procedure providing for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504) or Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (Title II). Both Section 504 and Title II prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability.COMPLAINTS SHOULD BE SENT IN WRITING ADDRESSED TO THE SECTION 504/TITLE II COORDINATOR:JULIANNA HANSCOM,  DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL SERVICESLUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 1025 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, LUNENBURG, MA. 01462 978-582-4100 X5213
Parent and Student Handbook ProvisionApproved by Lunenburg School Committee 9-17-14
HARASSMENT, BULLYING, CYBER-BULLYING or HAZINGPREVENTION AND INTERVENTION
On May 3, 2010 Governor Patrick signed an Act Relative to Bullying in Schools.  The law prohibits bullying and retaliation in all public and private schools, and requires schools and school districts to take certain steps to address bullying incidents.  Chapter 86 of the Acts of 2014, amended G.L. c. 71, §37O and contains important information for students and parents or guardians as described below.
Definitions
Aggressor is a student or a member of a school staff who engages in bullying, cyberbullying, or retaliation towards a student.
Bullying is the repeated use by one or more students of a written, verbal or electronic expression or a physical act or gesture or any combination thereof, directed at a target that: (i) causes physical or emotional harm to the target or damage to the target’s property; (ii) places the target in reasonable fear of harm to himself/herself or of damage to his/her property; (iii) creates a hostile environment at school for the target; (iv) infringes on the rights of the target at school; or (v) materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly operation of a school.   Bullying includes cyber-bullying.
Cyberbullying is bullying through the use of technology or any electronic devices such as telephones, cell phones, computers, and the Internet.  It includes, but is not limited to, email, instant messages, text messages, and Internet postings.  
Hostile environment is a situation in which bullying causes the school environment to be permeated with intimidation, ridicule, or insult that is sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the student’s education.
School Staff includes, but is not limited to, educators, administrators, counselors, school nurses, cafeteria workers, custodians, bus drivers, athletic coaches, advisors to extracurricular activities, support staff, or paraprofessionals.
Target is a student against whom bullying, cyberbullying, or retaliation is directed.
Retaliation is any form of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment directed against a student who reports bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or witnesses or has reliable information about bullying.
Prohibition Against Bullying
Bullying is prohibited: 
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 8
===PAGE 9===
• on school grounds, • on property immediately adjacent to school grounds, • at a school-sponsored or school-related activity, function, or program, whether it takes place on or off school grounds, • at a school bus stop, on a school bus or other vehicle owned, leased, or used by a school district or school, • through the use of technology or an electronic device that is owned, leased or used by a school district or school (for example, on a school computer or over the Internet using a school computer),• at any program or location that is not school-related, or through the use of personal technology or electronic devices, if the bullying creates a hostile environment at school for the target, infringes on the rights of the target at school, or materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the orderly operation of a school.
Retaliation against a person who reports bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or witnesses or has reliable information about bullying is prohibited.
Reporting Bullying
Reporting bullying or retaliation.  Reports of bullying or retaliation may be made by staff, students, parents or guardians, or others, and may be oral or written.  Oral reports made by or to a staff member shall be recorded in writing.  A school or district staff member is required to report immediately to the principal or designee any instance of bullying or retaliation the staff member becomes aware of or witnesses.  Reports made by students, parents or guardians, or other individuals who are not school or district staff members, may be made anonymously.  The school or district has made a variety of reporting resources available to the school community including an Incident Reporting Form, a voicemail box 978.582.4100 Extension 216 or pressing 3.  A message then asks the caller to leave specific information which will be followed-up by the administration according to the plan.  Reports can also be made via a dedicated mailing address to Harassment/Equity Coordinator, Superintendent’s Office, 1025 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA  01462 or by electronic mail to Harassment_Coordinator@lunenburgonline.com.  
Use of the Incident Reporting Form is not required as a condition of making a report.  The school or district will: 1) include a copy of the Incident Reporting Form in the beginning of the year packets for students and parents or guardians; 2) make it available in the school’s main office, the counseling office, and the school nurse's office; and 3) post it on the school’s website.  The Incident Reporting Form is available in the most prevalent language(s) of origin of students and parents or guardians the district serves.  
If a reported bullying incident involves the principal or the assistant principal as the alleged aggressor the report can be made in writing or orally to the Superintendent who shall be responsible for investigating the report and taking other necessary steps as outlined by the District Plan.  If the Superintendent is the alleged aggressor, the School Committee Chair shall be responsible for investigating the report, and taking other necessary steps as outlined by the District Plan.   Upon receipt of such a report, the school official principal or his/her designee will conduct an investigation. If the school principal or designee  determines that bullying or retaliation has occurred, the school principal or designee official shall (i) notify the parents or guardians of the target, and to the extent consistent with state and federal law, notify them of the action taken to prevent any further acts of bullying or retaliation; (ii) notify the parents or guardians of the aggressor as appropriate; (iii) take appropriate disciplinary action; and (iv) notify the local law enforcement agency if the school principal or designee official believes that criminal charges may be pursued against the aggressor.
Problem Resolution SystemRegardless of the outcome of the bullying determination, any parent wishing to file a claim/concern or seeking assistance outside of the district may do so with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Program Resolution System (PRS). That information can be found at: http://www.doe.mass.edu/pqa, emails can be sent to compliance@doe.mass.edu or individuals can call 781-338-3700. Hard copies of this information are also available at the Superintendent’s office.
BULLYING
Bullying is a form of harassment.  It includes direct behaviors like taunting, stealing, threatening, and unwanted physical contact.  Bullying also includes indirect behaviors like deliberate exclusion, lying about someone and spreading rumors.  
Students are notified that direct and indirect bullying behaviors will result in disciplinary consequences.  Bullying behaviors will result in, but will not be limited to, disciplinary consequences that could include counseling, loss of school privileges, detention, Saturday School, suspension or expulsion, and/or notification of the police.
CYBER-BULLYINGCyber-bullying is a form of bullying using the internet, cell phones or other electronic devices to send, post or text messages and/or images and material intended to hurt or embarrass another person.  This may include, but is not limited to; continuing to send email to someone who has said they want no further contact with the sender; sending or posting threats, sexual remarks or pejorative labels (i.e., hate speech); ganging up on targets by making them the subject of ridicule in forums, and posting false statements as fact intended to humiliate the target; disclosure of personal data, such as the target’s real name, address, or school on websites or forums; posing as the identity of the target for the purpose of publishing material in their name that defames or ridicules them; sending threatening and harassing text, instant messages or emails to the targets; and posting or sending rumors or gossip to instigate others to dislike and gang up on the target, which is determined to have a material and substantial interference with school activities or with the rights of students and teachers.  
Cyber-bullying shall also include the distribution by any electronic means of a communication to more than one person or the posting of material on an electronic medium that may be accessed by one or more persons, if the distribution or posting creates any of the conditions enumerated in clauses (i) to (v), inclusive, of the definition of bullying.
HARASSMENT / SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Any form of harassment, student to student, adult to student, student to adult, will not be tolerated.  Every member of the school community has the right to work and learn in a safe and secure environment, free from harassment and bullying of any kind.  
Harassment means any threatening, insulting, or dehumanizing gesture, use of data or computer software, or written, verbal or physical conduct that is derogatory to a person and designed to demean, intimidate, or have the effect of substantially interfering with an individual’s Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 9
===PAGE 10===
school/work performance.  In addition to school rules, there are state and federal laws, which forbid harassment.  By law, the target defines sexual harassment.  What one person may consider acceptable behavior may be viewed as sexual harassment by another person.  If you feel harassed, you should report this to a teacher, a counselor, the nurse, or an administrator immediately.  Action will be taken to correct the situation promptly with all respect for the confidentiality of the persons involved.
Every complaint of harassment will result in an investigation of the circumstances and an interview of the offending person.  Harassing behavior will be stopped.  Harassing students will be warned that there can be no discussion of the incident and no retaliation against a student who makes a complaint.  Retaliation against a person who reports harassment, provides information during an investigation of harassment, or witnesses or has reliable information about harassment is absolutely prohibited.
Harassing behavior will result in, but will not be limited to, disciplinary consequences that could include counseling, loss of school privileges, detention, Saturday school, suspension or expulsion, and/or notification of the police.
HAZING
Hazing is any conduct or method of initiation into any student organization, whether on public or private property, which willfully or recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person.  
Hazing is strictly forbidden by the school and by state law.
Students are reminded of the obligation under the law to treat other students with respect.  Failure to observe this regulation will result in disciplinary action.  Such offense(s) may lead to expulsion.
SAFE SCHOOL ASSURANCES: AGAINST, BULLYING, HARASSMENT, SEXUAL HARASSMENT, INTIMIDATION AND HUMILIATION
Every student has the right to: travel to and from school on buses; participate in academic classes and vocational programs; walk the corridors and stairwells, have lunch in the cafeteria; participate in sports, clubs, activities and school functions; make friendships, express individuality, and enjoy a sense of belonging; leave past mistakes behind and achieve greater success and confidence.
You have the right to do all these things in safety, free from harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation or humiliation.
No student has the right to interfere with another student’s guaranteed rights.  The School District will not tolerate harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation or humiliation.
Behaviors that interfere with the right of others include, but are not limited to: unwelcome words or behavior of a sexual nature (looks, touches, comments, gestures, signs, pictures, etc.): physical or verbal intimidation (threats, fighting, forcing another to do or say something they don’t wish to do or say, cornering someone); name-calling, rumors, gossip, cyber-bullying (using technology or electronic communication to spread information designed to hurt or embarrass another person); physical or verbal assaults (serious fight with injury, violent words, cheering an attack); ganging-up on, hazing, excluding, isolating (group actions against another student, “outnumbering”); racial, ethnic and sexual insults (slurs that insult/demean others for race, nationality, sex); contribution to a “hostile environment” (making class, shop, gym, bus uncomfortable for others). 
It is never an acceptable excuse to say “I was only joking,” or “I didn’t mean it,” or “I wasn’t talking to him/her,” or “I was talking about somebody else.”  You do not have the right to say or do things that are offensive to others who can see or hear you.  When you do this, you are contributing to a hostile environment.  What one person sees as a joke, another person may see as harassment.  It doesn’t matter whether you intend to hurt or harass someone with these behaviors or not.  It only matters how you make the other person feel.  If they feel upset, hurt, harassed, or humiliated by your words or actions, then you’re responsible.
What can happen if you make someone feel this way?  They may stop participating in class, shop, on a team, in an activity, their grades may go down because they can’t concentrate on their work; they may start being absent from school, or feeling sick when there’s no reason; they may decide to leave school for good and attend a different school.  This deprives a person of their right to attend school here.  
WHAT CONSEQUENCES WILL YOU FACE IN SCHOOL?Administrators and Teachers, have NO TOLERANCE for harassment, sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation, or humiliation between or among students.  Consequences for these behaviors could include: counseling, detentions, Saturday school, loss of school privileges, removal from extra-curricular activities, suspension and expulsion; depending on the nature, number and seriousness of the offense(s) and/or notification of the police.
GUIDELINES FOR STOPPING BEHAVIOR:
a) If you are harassed, bullied, intimidated, or humiliated by the words, actions or printed/posted statements of another student or students, tell them to STOP.  Then, talk to an adult immediately (bus driver, teacher, counselor, nurse, administrator).
b) If you witness any of this behavior toward another student, speak up.  Tell the offending student(s) to STOP and let an adult know (teacher, counselor, nurse, administrator).
c) If you are guilty of harassing behavior toward another student, UNDERSTAND THAT YOU WILL BE STOPPED AND DISCIPLINED.    
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 10
===PAGE 11===
DATE TIME IN/OUT DESTINATION TEACHER
Notes:  
Lunenburg Middle School                     Student Handbook 2024-2025          Page 11