===PAGE 1===
 
 
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS 3000  
FOOD SERVICE      3700 
SCHOOL BREAKFAST/LUNCH PROGRAM LUNENBURG FOOD SERVICE      3701 
CONCESSION STAND POLICY     3701.03 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools Concession stand will be a Retail Operation as specified in 105 
CMR 590.0001 purpose and definition (C )Food Establishments (3) (a.) an establishment that 
offers only prepackaged foods.that are not time/temperature controlled for safety with the 
exception of prepared pizza purchased from a licensed food establishment.  
The Business Office  food service director will pull a permit for retail operation of the concession 
stand. Food preparation is not allowed, only the sale of all groups can sell prepackaged foods. 
Groups that wish to sell time temperature controlled foods must have one member of their 
organization Servsafe manager certified and that member must be present during the operation of 
the concession stand.  and pizza that is prepared in a licensed regulated kitchen such as local pizza 
shops. The Concession Stand Coordinator food service director will manage keys to the 
concession stand. Organizations will provide copies of ServSafe certificates when signing out a 
key.  At least one organization member must be ServSafe Manager certified and present during 
the operation of the concession stand.  The organization will receive a copy of the concession 
stand policy and Concession Stand Standard Operating Procedure  before requesting at the time 
of request for use of the stand and the organization must return a signed acknowledgement of 
policy and procedures.  Requests for concession stand usage must be submitted through the 
district’s facility permitting system.  School Dude. Schedule requests will not be approved 
without signed acknowledgment on file.  
Limited lockable storage will be available for seasonal or annual storage of nonperishable items. 
Closet/storage locks will be keyed differently but will have a master key that the Food Service 
Director Concession Stand Coordinator will maintain.  
At the end of each permit  Season. all food and drink items must be removed. The Fall sport 
season removal deadline is 5pm on the Monday following Thanksgiving of each year, the Spring 
sport season removal is 5pm on the second Friday of June each year. Any food or drink items 
found in the concession stand beyond these dates or at the end of a single event permit will be 
disposed of by the School District the organization will be charged a $500 fee for the disposal. and 
the organization will be charged a fee for the disposal.  A $500 fee will be assessed to any user 
which results in the cleanup and/or disposal of items/food left behind.   
All facility fees collected from operation of the concession stand will be used to maintain or 
improve the operation of the concession stand.  
1. Booster Clubs, extra-curricular clubs, outside organizations or classes are required to 
schedule concession stand events through the district’s on-line permit system.  on the 
===PAGE 2===
 
School Dude Facilities Scheduler. The Athletic Director and Superintendent of Sch ools 
will approve event requests. 
2. All food sold must be in compliance with the menu guidance detailed in the 
standard operating procedures menu options.   There is no cooking at the 
concession stand or on school grounds. Home-made food is not allowed.  
3. Organizations are required to determine the number of volunteers to operate the 
concession stand but at least one volunteer must hold a ServeSafe Food Manager 
Certificate when time temperature controlled foods are sold and/or be over the age of 18. 
All volunteers working the concession stand must be above the age of 14.  
a. Organizations will manage all operations of the concession stand during an 
event; including instructing and assigning all volunteers in the specific duties and 
shifts required. 
b. Organizations will maintain a log of volunteers who worked the stand for 
each event.  
c. Volunteers must stay to clean up, empty trash cans, put equipment away, 
turn off all lights and secure the facility.  
4. Organizations are responsible for monitoring behavior of volunteers and are the sole 
arbitrator of disputes involving volunteers and /or customers. Organizations are 
responsible for ensuring that the volunteers follow the rules set forth for use of school 
facilities in the district’s facilities policy and concession stand SOP’s. Organizations will be 
monitored by the Concession Stand Coordinator. 
5. Organizations that pose repeated behavioral problems, who violate Board of Health 
regulations, are found cooking onsite without a certified manager , are found selling items 
that are not allowed and/or who fail to show up for the agreed upon scheduled event, may 
be banned from participating in the concession stand for the remainder of the season. 48-
hour notice is required for cancellations. Won’t we also ban for violations of BOH 
regulation? 
6. Organizations will keep equipment clean and report any problems or mechanical issues to 
the Food Service Director Business Manager or Concession Stand Coordinator within 24 
hours. 
ADOPTED(INSERT DATE)  
Page 2 of 2 