===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Schools Extended Day Handbook 2024/2025 The Lunenburg 
Public Schools offer Extended Day services for families of students enrolled in the Lunenburg 
Public Schools and to children of school employees K through grade 5. Children are required to 
be toilet trained to attend. A summer program is also offered for students entering 1st grade 
through grade 5. The program is located at the Thomas C. Passios building. This handbook 
outlines the services to assist you in determining if the program meets the needs of your family. 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
          Rates and fees………………………………………………………1/2  
 Enrollment/Attendance…………………………………………...........2  
          Registrations……………………………………………………….......2 
          Pre-Registration…………………………………………………..........2  
                                  Pick-Up and Drop-off Procedures………………………………..........2  
          Medications/Health…………………………………………….…… ...3  
         Rules, Conduct and Discipline…………………………………...…….3  
                                 Hours of Operation……………………………………………………..4  
Early Release & Full PD Days  
Inclement Weather  
Vacations  
Summer  
         Daily Activities….……………………………………………………..4  
Indoor/outdoor activities  
Snacks  
           
Rates and Fees 
The Extended Day Program is a self -sustaining program, and all fees collected are allocated to 
program costs. The rate for extended day services is established by the School Committee on an 
annual basis. Please check the web site or registration form for the annual rates.  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
Call (978) 582-4100, X-5220 or X-5221 or email  
pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net  or visit our website at  
http://www.lunenburgschools.net/extended day-program.  
Families will be billed for services rendered at the  middle of each calendar month. The bill is 
based upon a block billing rate.  
Statements are distributed by the 20th day of the month and payments are due on the 1st of the next 
month. If the 1st falls  on a weekend, payment will be due on the next school day. Payment is 
expected on the due date unless prior arrangements are made. Please speak to the program Director 
if you are having difficulty paying your bill on time. Carrying an outstanding balance c ould result 
in your child being dropped from the program. If a child is picked up later than 5:30 p.m., there will 
be an additional charge of $1.00 per minute. If a pattern of tardiness continues your child could 
be dropped from the program.  
Enrollment/Attendance  
Online Registrations will be available on Wednesday May 1, 2024  
 
Parents will pay for set schedule, (even if not used)  
Registration forms and emergency contact information must be filled out every year in advance 
for each child attending the program. These are specific forms for the Extended Day Program 
and separate from any forms filled out for the school administration.  
An established cap for a.m. and p.m. sessions will be determined on a yearly basis, not to exceed 
75 per session.  
PLEASE NOTE  
We require a schedule of attendance be provided for each child so that we ensure appropriate levels 
of supervision. It is the parents’ responsibility to notify the school and Extended Day of their 
child’s schedule. No drop-ins and as needed registrations are not available.  
A schedule of registration notices and deadlines will be issued as needed through school 
publications and on the school website. 
Any child returning on a bus will be dropped off at the Superintendent’s Office and parent 
will be notified. 
 
If there is insufficient enrollment, services may be cancelled. You will receive 
a minimum one-week notice if a decision to cancel services is made.  
You can withdraw your child without penalty with one week advanced notice.  
Pick-up and Drop-off Procedures  
It is required that adults must sign-in/sign-out their child both in the morning and the afternoon. 
This is for your child’s safety. Your child will only be released to those individuals listed on the 
registration form. You must notify staff in writing or call if someone not on the list is coming to 
pick up your child, or we will not release him/her.  
  You must show proof of identity to pick up your child. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Medications/ Health  
Medication policies at Extended Day are the same as those set forth in the student handbook. No 
medications will be dispensed at Extended Day other than those designated as emergency 
medications (i.e., Epi -pens, inhalers). Staff are trained in first -aid, E pi-pen, CPR and AED 
Defibrillator.  
 The parent/guardian of any child on an inhaler or epi-pen should talk to the Extended 
Day Director/Coordinator and establish a written health plan for the time the child is 
enrolled in the Extended Day program.  
 There is no on site medical personal/nursing staff  dedicated to this program 
Rules, Conduct and Discipline  
Behavior and discipline standards at Extended Day are consistent with those of the school district. 
Students are expected to conduct themselves according to the standards set forth in their student 
handbook. Please refer to the current handbook for a fully detailed explanation.  
∙  All members of the Extended Day program are expected to treat each other with 
courtesy and respect at all times.  
∙  Students will show respect for school property and the property of others. 
∙  Bullying is absolutely not tolerated.  
∙  Toys and other personal items not required for the regular school day are prohibited at 
Extended Day.  
∙  Through both environmental and instructional structure, we strive to foster positive 
behavior and self-management in students, greatly reducing the need to ‘discipline’ or 
correct behaviors.  
∙  Children may be given a verbal reminder to correct inappropriate conduct. If the behavior 
continues, the child will be asked to separate from the situation for a brief period of time 
in order to collect themselves and may reenter the activity once they are able to choose 
appropriate behavior.  
∙  If a child continues to be unable to manage themselves, then a parent will be notified.  
If behavior continues or is detrimental to the program or other students, then 
administrative intervention will be sought up to and including suspension or 
removal from the program. We document behavioral issues to be discussed with a 
parent.  
PLEASE NOTE: Privacy issues limit the school administration from sharing behavior/education 
plans with Extended Day staff without the written consent of the parent. Please do not assume that 
we have access to this kind of information. If there is information that would be helpful in providing 
the best possible care for your child, please speak to the program director/coordinator to share any 
pertinent information.  
 
===PAGE 4===
Hours of Operation  
Extended Day K-Grade 5 Before and After School:  
Standard hours of operation during the school year are 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 am and 3: 30-5:30 p.m., 
Monday through Friday. The before school program starts at 7:00 a.m.; the after -school program 
starts at 3:30 p.m.   
Early Release Days  
The Extended Day after-school session will start after The Primary School and THES 
dismissal time and operate 12:30-5:30 p.m. (Block billing rate) Registration for half days will 
be available the week prior and students must be registered to attend. 
Full Day Professional Development: The Extended Day program is CLOSED on full 
day professional development days so that the staff may participate in PD offerings.  
Inclement Weather  
Extended Day services will be closed on weather emergency days. For delayed openings, 
the Extended Day Program opens when the school opens. Please have an alternate plan for 
your child if Extended Day closes early.  Contact your child’s school secretary to provide 
information about any and all changes made to your child’s schedule. 
Vacations  
Services will not be offered during April and February school vacations  
*Closed during the December break in accordance with the district.  
Summer  
The Summer Program (4 weeks Monday -Thursday 8:30-3:00 pm) begins the first full week 
of July and will close three full weeks prior to school starting.  
Dates, Themes and Field trips will be posted April 22nd for parents to plan accordingly. *If 
a child attends the summer program that requires extra support, a parent will be asked to 
chaperone on field trip days.  
The summer program payments are due the Monday of each week. Payments are non-
refundable once you register.  
Daily Activities 
Indoor activities  
All children attending the extended day program will be allowed to choose from numerous games 
and activities.  
Outdoor activities  
Students enrolled in the extended day program will go outside. Please be sure that children are 
properly dressed each day for outdoor recess and clothes are labeled.  
Snacks  
Children must provide their own snack/drink while attending Extended Day. This is in 
accordance with the school’s policy on snacks due to the number of children with food allergies. 
Please refrain from sending snacks containing nuts. 
 
===PAGE 5===
Non Discrimination Statement  
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discriminate in its programs, facilities or employment or 
educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic informa tion, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from discrimination 
under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported possible bias, 
discrimination, or ina ppropriate behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, or who have 
otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff who violate 
these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or dismissal. 
 
 