===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
 
INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 5200 
 
EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 5218 
 
In recognition of the diversified characteristics and needs of our students and with the keen 
desire to be responsive to them, the School Committee will make every effort to protect the 
dignity of the students as individuals.  It also will offer careful consideration and sympathetic 
understanding of their personal feelings, particularly with reference to their 
The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, facilities or employment 
or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, 
ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy and pregnancy related condition(s), genetic information, veteran status, natural and 
protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected from 
discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have reported 
possible bias, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an investigation, or 
who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  Students and staff 
who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion or 
dismissal. 
 race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation, 
marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran status, political 
affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic information or disability, as 
defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against 
individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal 
opportunity investigation. 
 
*race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair  texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
To accomplish this, the Committee and its staf f will make every effort to comply with the letter 
and the spirit of the Massachusetts equal educational opportunities law, which prohibits 
discrimination in public school admissions and programs.  The law reads as follows: 
 
No child shall be excluded from  or discriminated against in admission to a public school 
of any town, or in obtaining the advantages, privileges and course of study of such public 
school on account of race*, color,religion, national origin,sex,gender identity,age,sexual 
orientation,ancestry, athletic performance, physical handicap, special need,academic 
performance or proficiency in the English language or pregnancy or pregnancy related 
conditions. 
            The Lunenburg Public Schools does not discrimination in its programs, faciliti es or 
employment or educational opportunities on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national 
origin, ancestry, ethnicity, age, disability, marital status, sex, gender identity and expression, 
sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy related cond ition(s), genetic information, veteran 
status, natural and protective hairstyle and any other characteristic or class of individuals protected 
===PAGE 2===
from discrimination under state or federal law. Retaliatory conduct toward persons who have 
reported possible bia s, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior, who have assisted in an 
investigation, or who have otherwise exercised their rights under this policy is also prohibited.  
Students and staff who violate these policies may be subject to discipline, up to and i ncluding 
expulsion or dismissal. 
 
 
race*, color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation, marital/civil 
union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran status, political affiliation, 
housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic information or disability, as defined and 
required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation against individuals who 
oppose such discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal opportunity 
investigation. 
 
*race to include traits historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair  texture, 
hair type, hair length and protective hairstyles. 
 
This will mean that every student will be given equal opportunity in school admission, 
admissions to courses, course content, guidance, and extracurricular and athletic activities. 
 
All implementing provisions issued by the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education in 
compliance with this law will be followed. 
 
LEGAL REF.:  Acts of 2022, Chapter 117 - 
https://malegislature.gov/Laws/SessionLaws/Acts/2022/Chapter117 
M.G.L. 71:83 
SOURCE: MASC - Updated August 202 
 
LEGAL REFS:   Title VI, Civil Rights Act of 1964  
Title VII, Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended by the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Act of 1972 
Executive Order 11246, as amended by E.O. 11375 
Title IX, Education Amendments of 1972 
M.G.L. 76:5; 76:16 (Chapter 622 of the Acts of 1971) 
BESE regulations 603 CMR 26:00 
BESE regulations 603 CMR 28.00 
 
 
CROSS REF.:  AC, Nondiscrimination 
 
Revised:  December 2, 2004 
Updated:  November 7, 2012 