===PAGE 1===
Role and Responsibilities of School Committees Part III 
 
Welcome to the third and final part of the Role and 
Responsibilities of the School Committee.  I am Carol 
Archambault, Chair of the Lunenburg School Committee.  In the 
last two parts of this series we have explored the School 
Committee’s role regarding budget, policy setting, supervision 
of the Superintendent, committee work, collective bargaining, 
performance standards, curriculum and governance.  Today we 
will talk about the role school committees play in professional 
development, school councils, communication, and advocacy. 
 
All school professional staff members are required to attend 
professional development.  The school committee approves the 
Professional Development calendar recommended by the 
Superintendent and supports funding for professional 
development activities. 
 
It is the responsibility of the Superintendent to implement a 
professional development plan that coincides with the School 
Committee approved goals for the school district.  The 
Superintendent must also ensure that professional 
development activities are available and appropriate to all. 
 
The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
requires that all schools have active School Councils.  Each 
Council should include a School Committee member in its 
membership.  It is the role of the School Committee to approve 
the annual School Improvement Plan present to them by each 
School council.  The School committee also should encourage 
professional development for all council members. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Superintendent is responsible for reviewing the role of 
School Councils with the principals and ensuring there councils 
meet the DESE requirements. 
 
As in any organization, communication is a key factor in the 
smooth operation of the school district.  The School Committee 
supports the development and promotion of the vision, 
mission, goals, and strategies of the school system.  Prior to 
each School Committee meeting each committee member is 
required to review the information provided by the 
Superintendent regarding agenda topics.  Questions should be 
asked prior to the meeting.  Those questions are often also 
asked during the meeting to help the public understand a 
specific topic of discussion. 
 
The School Committee consults and confers with the 
Superintendent on all matters as they arise that concern the 
district and fall under the School Committee’s scope of 
authority.  It is important to discern topics that the School 
Committee is able to act upon and those that fall under the 
authority of the Superintendent. 
 
School Committee meetings, with the exception of executive 
sessions, are held in public and are subject to the Open Meeting 
law.  Meetings must be posted 48 hours prior to the meeting.  
Under the Governor’s COVID 19 policy, School Committee 
meetings, like all public meetings, must provide public access 
even when the meeting is being held remotely. 
 
As the School Committee sets policy and the Superintendent 
carries that policy out, the School Committee supports the 
Superintendent in all matters that conform to School 
Committee policy. 
 
===PAGE 3===
The best way for the public to communicate with the School 
Committee is via email.  The School Committee Chair acts as 
the voice for the committee and will answer all inquiries.  
Public comment is available at most School Committee 
meetings but, as discussed previously, it is a comment not a 
discussion. 
 
The Superintendent communicates all aspect of Massachusetts 
Education Law and shares changes or amendments with the 
committee.  In the current pandemic public health crisis she 
apprises the School Committee on current conditions as well as 
state and federal mandates.  She shares the responsibility for 
open communication and honest discourse with the School 
Committee and maintains open communication between the 
community and the schools. 
 
Advocacy is an area that calls many committee members to 
serve.  It is the responsibility of the School Committee to 
engage in advocacy on behalf of the students and their schools 
and to promote the benefits of a public school system to the 
community.  The School Committee must work closely with 
other governmental bodies when needed.  They must also 
collaborate with other school committees through state 
associations to let state legislators and other state and federal 
officials know local concerns and issues. 
 
The Superintendent must also be an advocate for the students 
and their schools.  They collaborate with other administrators 
and work with local and state officials to gather support for a 
fair and sound school budget with committee and 
administrator goals and priorities. 
 
In conclusion, the School committee’s role is to be the voice of 
the student.  All decisions made come back to the advancement 
===PAGE 4===
of each child’s education.  The School Committee, while 
listening to parent and community input, advocates for the 
children first.  There is much to balance and decisions are not 
always easy.   
 
Thank you for listening to the Role and Responsibilities of the 
School Committee.  It is our hope that someone listening may 
wish to get involved in one of the many volunteer positions in 
the school district.  Whether you wish to serve on a School 
Council, run for School Committee, get involved in a standing 
committee like PAC SAL , or attend School Committee meetings 
to voice your opinions, your contribution is valuable in 
informing the paths we take. 
 
Thank you to Jo McLaughlin and Lunenburg Public Access for 
so generously filming and airing these segments.  Please 
contact me, Carol Archambault  at 
carchambault@lunenburgonline.com or any committee 
member with questions or concerns. 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
 