===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg PTO – 1025 Massachusetts Ave. Lunenburg, MA 01462 
October 7, 2024 
 
Lunenburg School Committee 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Dear Members of the Lunenburg School Committee: 
The Lunenburg PTO would like to express our support for the group, known as the Lunenburg 
Educational Advancement Foundation (LEAF) in their mission to open avenues of funding for the 
Lunenburg Public Schools that are outside of the purview of the PTO. Understanding that there is 
some inherent overlap in the scope of services provided by both groups, we ﬁnd mutual 
appreciation for the need to clearly deﬁne parameters around funding sources sought by each 
group. We thank Dr. Burnham and the School Committee for the opportunity to provide our input on 
these parameters. 
The mission of the PTO is primarily to provide funding for all four schools in the Lunenburg School 
District. Beyond fundraising, our group also works to provide resources which are instrumental in 
school events – such as Book Fairs and Penny Wars. We strive to foster a strong home-school 
connection and build a sense of community within the district. Our ability to achieve these 
objectives relies heavily - if not completely - on the participation and engagement of the Lunenburg 
School community for support.  
We feel it is important to acknowledge that only three years ago, our group faced a drastic decrease 
in participation and donations. The PTO was faced with the very real possibility that the organization 
may need to be dissolved. Fortunately, through the hard work and dedication of a handful of people, 
we have made solid progress in expanding membership and participation and look forward to - this 
year - offering our ﬁrst broadened grant opportunity for the schools in the district since the 
pandemic. 
We appreciate your consideration in requesting our input to avoid overlap or conﬂict and ensure 
both groups are successful. We feel as though the delineation between the groups lies ultimately in 
the type of donation, rather than the source. The PTO generally seeks donations from the public, 
and members of the community in the form of sponsorships and single-type contributions made at 
events or for fundraising campaigns. We understand that LEAF would seek larger-scale donations, 
in the form of endowments or private gifts from a more narrow ﬁeld of sources.  
Most importantly, the PTO looks forward to the opportunity to work together with LEAF to establish 
marketing and communications standards regarding the differences between our groups that will 
clearly deﬁne our separate, yet complimentary missions for the community. We would request that 
any public relations materials LEAF puts out which discusses the PTO be provided for review prior 
to publishing to ensure accuracy; the PTO will offer the same courtesy. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Lunenburg PTO – 1025 Massachusetts Ave. Lunenburg, MA 01462 
As always, we cannot overstate our appreciation for the administration and school committee in 
continuing to communicate the value provided for the school district by the PTO. This support has 
been instrumental in furthering our efforts to boost membership and involvement from the 
Lunenburg Schools community. 
We are hopeful for the opportunities an educational foundation can bring to the district, and 
appreciate the work LEAF is doing to enhance education in Lunenburg Public Schools.  
 
Sincerely, 
The Lunenburg PTO  
Shaunna Baril, President; Mandy Gilman, Vice President; Alix Lind, Treasurer; Katie Donell, 
Secretary  
 
 
CC: Dr. Kate Burnham & Lunenburg Educational Foundation (LEAF)  