===PAGE 1===
Spain - Contact Phone Numbers, Itinerary, General Family Information
Lynn Radford, head chaperone: (978) 230-3809 (phone/text/WhatsApp)
Lisa Szocik-Maillet: (978) 821-2354
Day 1: Travel to Spain - April 17, 2025 (overnight)
1) Charter bus from LMHS to Boston-Logan International Airport
Boarding upon arrival of coach @ 7:00 p.m.
Students must show passport to a chaperone to board the bus
*Stow your own luggage if needed - don't assume the bus driver will do this!
2) Flight to Barcelona (BCN)
Iberia Air IB2626
Departs 04/17/2025 @ 10:50 p.m.
Arrives at BCN 04/18/2025 @ 12:15 p.m.
Hostal Bedmates Apartments: (+34) 659 373 131
Day 2: Barcelona - April 18, 2025
Hostal Bedmates Apartments: (+34) 659 373 131
Planned activities, subject to change: Settle into hotel; explore Barcelona; group meeting.
Day 3: Barcelona y Figureres - April 19, 2025
Hostal Bedmates Apartments: (+34) 659 373 131
Planned activities: Day trip to Figureres/Dalí Museum; Sagrada Familia, Las Ramblas/
La Boquería market
Day 4: Barcelona > Valencia - April 20, 2025
Sea You Hotel Port Valencia: (+34) 963 214 330
Planned activities: Parque Güell; travel to Valencia and explore
Day 5: Valencia > Granada - April 21, 2025
Hotel Macià Monasterio de los Basilios: +34 958 285 806
Planned activities: City of Arts and Sciences; drive through Andalusia to Granada
Day 6: Granada - April 22, 2025
Hotel Macià Monasterio de los Basilios: +34 958 285 806
Planned activities: Guided tour of the Alhambra; visiting the Old Quarter and traditional
Moroccan tea house; flamenco cave dance in the evening
Day 7: Granada > Sevilla - April 23, 2025
TOC Hostal and Suites +34 954 501 244
Planned activities: Travel to Sevilla, including olive farm tour; explore Sevilla
Day 8: Sevilla - April 24, 2025
TOC Hostal and Suites +34 954 501 244
Planned activities: Sevilla Cathedral; tapas lunch; cruise on the Guadalquivir River; authentic
Spanish cooking class/dinner
Day 9: Flights to Boston! - April 25, 2025
1) Vueling Airlines VY 2227 Sevilla (SVQ) to Barcelona (BCN) @2:05 p.m. (lands @3:45 p.m.)
2) Iberia Air IB 2625 Barcelona (BCN) to Boston (BOS) @6:30 p.m. (lands @9:05 p.m.)
Anticipated arrival at LMHS between 10:45 - 11:30 p.m., depending on baggage claim and traffic;
students will text/call families once we leave Logan Airport, giving about an hour lead time to meet up at
the school.
===PAGE 2===
Spain Trip
RULES - REGLAS
1. School rules will be in effect: no drinking, fighting, smoking, or vulgar profanity; no purchasing of
alcohol or other illegal items. Keep online/social media posting positive and affirming. Walking Tree
Travel has the same expectations and consequences as LMHS and tour leaders as well as chaperones
reserve the right to send students home at their parents' expense. We don't expect this to be an issue!
2. The buddy system will be in effect at all times. You will travel in groups of 3 or 4 and never travel
alone.
3. Every student will take part in every breakfast, dinner, and tour excursion.
4. Students are expected to be in their rooms when at the hotel unless permission is given otherwise.
5. Room checks will be conducted nightly and may be unannounced.
6. Prescription medications must be in original containers and must be documented on your medical
form. OTC medications (Tylenol, etc.) may be carried as well. Don't forget medicine for car, bus, or
plane sickness as needed.
7. Possession of illegal substances is absolutely forbidden and will require dismissal from the group
and a return home at the parents' expense. Be smart.
8. Any calls students make back to the US need to be done on their own free time. No conversing on a
cell phone during group activities. Students are not to be texting family/friends during tours.
9. You are responsible for your own baggage and belongings. Never leave your bags unattended at the
airport, when waiting for a bus, etc.
10. Be positive and be flexible. We will all be tired and overwhelmed at times. If you have a major
complaint, see your group leader or another chaperones.
11. Respect your fellow travelers. Be welcoming. It's difficult to be away. Offer to include others.
12. Respect local culture-act like a guest. Leave a good impression. Be an ambassador.
Walking Tree Travel goes to great lengths to foster a sense of community learning on their trips.
Throughout the trip, students will work together to complete a travel blog of our adventures. Take lots of
pictures, and talk to friends about your highlights! We'll be sure to include those on the blog.
AIRPORT KNOW-HOW
1. Check your bag prior to packing to be sure you don't have anything hiding in there from another
trip/the last time you used it. (We've had situations where TSA has confiscated camping knives, etc.
from students who didn't realize they were in the bag.)
2. You cannot carry drinks or open food through security. Bring an empty water bottle to fill after the
TSA check and/or money to purchase things near the gate.
3. Answer the airline/TSA employee questions factually and to the point.
4. Don't joke around when waiting in line for airport security.
5. You may be asked to remove hoodies, belts, the clear plastic baggie with your carry-on gels/liquids,
electronic devices, and shoes at the TSA checkpoint in order to place them in bins. Dress accordingly!
6. Wait at the other side of security for the rest of the group.
7. Keep your clear ziploc bag (with gels/liquids in it) at the top of your carry-on for easy access.
8. Designate a spot in your carry-on or on your person for your boarding pass and passport. You will
need it numerous times.
===PAGE 3===
ON THE PLANE
1. Drink plenty of water.
2. Be courteous to people sitting next to you. Share armrests. Be mindful of conversational noise level.
3. If you need to get up, say "excuse me" or "I'm sorry, I need to get up."
4. Wear pants, jeans, longer shorts, or capris - not short shorts. Be comfortable.
5. Don't recline your seat during dinner. Be mindful of the people behind you.
6. Pay attention to the instructions of the flight attendants, particularly regarding electronics. Make sure
you know how to put your phone/iPad in airplane mode. Download items as you wish from Netflix,
Disney+, etc to watch on the plane (downloads work in airplane mode). Do this at home before we
leave.
7. Chewing gum for the altitude change (takeoff/landing) helps with ear popping.
8. Temps fluctuate greatly on a flight. Consider bringing something to cover up with if you get chilly.
BE AN IDEAL ROOMMATE AND A STELLAR HOTEL GUEST!
1. Keep your personal belongings (clothing, toiletries, purchases, etc) near or in your bag.
2. Place all dirty clothes in a closed trash bag in your luggage. (Dirty clothes smells; the bag keeps your
other stuff from smelling, too.)
3. Respect the quiet hours of the hotel, normally 10 p.m. - 7 a.m.
4. Respect bedtimes. Turn off devices when the light is off.
5. Keep toiletries in their bag in the bathroom. Don't spread your personal items over the counter. Wipe
up water, toothpaste, etc. if you dirty the sink or counter.
6. Keep hotel doors closed at all times - it's not a dorm!
7. No visiting after bed check.
8. Plan showers with your roommates. Some should shower at night, and some in the morning.
9. Shower each day. Wear deodorant each day. Temps are expected to be in the 60s and 70s.
10. Leave all items that belong to the hotel at the hotel.
11. Minibars cost money. The hotel will notify me if something has been taken and you will be charged.
12. Students will be held liable for any missing items or damage to the rooms.
TOURING - YOU ARE AN AMBASSADOR OF LUNENBURG!
1. Stay with the larger group. Advocate for yourself if you're struggling to keep up.
2. When in smaller groups, you must stay together. You are mutually responsible for each other.
3. Know the time. Be on time for meeting up.
4. Listen to the tour guides and your chaperones. Take out all earbuds when being addressed to
indicate the person has your full attention.
5. No earbuds on tours or when you're being addressed by adults. You don't want to miss anything, and
it's a sign of respect.
6. Use quiet voices when in public.
7. Wear your money on your person, not in a backpack pouch or other place that's easy to pickpocket.
Don't take your purse/bag off or hang on the back of a chair, etc. in a restaurant unless you can keep it
in your sight at all times (recommend looping it around your foot if it's on the floor, etc.) Remind fellow
travelers as well. If you keep a wallet in your pocket, put it in the front pocket. Please be attentive at all
times for thieves and pickpockets, particularly in Barcelona. - Purses, backpacks, and cinch bags
should be worn across the front of your body in highly populated areas.
===PAGE 4===
1 cabin bag
56x40x25cm/10kg
1 personal accessory
30x40x15cm
Economy/ Premium
Economy
IBERIA AIRLINES baggage
policy
Cabin bag: 22 × 15.7 x 9
inches
Personal accessory bag:
11.8 x 15.7 x 5.9 inches
(rounding to 6 inches is probably
PACKING LIST
CLOTHING: Keep in mind that if you sweat, you probably don't want to/shouldn't rewear certain clothes!
These are recommendations and not requirements. Be sure to check the weather the day before we
leave for heat predictions. Remember - the weather in Spain varies from place to place!
• Underwear
• Your Walking Tree t-shirt!
• Socks (a mixture of good hiking socks and casual socks)
• Short-sleeved shirts (quick dry are great); possibly tanks or long-sleeved shirts as desired
• Rain jacket or poncho
• Shorts
• Sundresses
• Comfortable everyday pants or jeans
• Comfortable walking shoes/sandals: we will walk a lot
• A hat for sun protection, if desired
• Swimming suit in case we hit the beach! Not sure we'd be swimming in 60-75 degree temps...
TOILETRIES: Remember - Carry-on only means all lotions/gels need to be 3oz or under and all fit in the
quart-sized ziploc baggie.
• The basics: shampoo/lotion/soap/deodorant/etc. that you use every morning. Hotels will
usually have these, so you might not even need a lot. Packing tip: shampoo, conditioner, and soap
BARS aren't liquids and don't have to go in a baggie!
• Sunscreen (Amazon, CVS, etc. sell travel sizes)
• Band Aids and Neosporin (chaperones will also have these)
• Hand Sanitizer
• Prescription medication in its original container (or printouts for every Rx if not in original
container/box
MISCELLANEOUS:
• Sunglasses. Spain is SUNNY!
• A crossbody/cinch bag/small backpack (can double as your personal bag on the plane)
• Trash bag for dirty clothing (it keeps the rest of your stuff from smelling bad)
===PAGE 5===
• Journal and pen, if desired
• Book, esp if you read on the bus - there are long bus rides and air travel times.
• Debit/Credit card - or Euros (we recommend about $75-$200, depending on number of desired
snacks, souvenirs, extra items etc.) Pro tip: You can use your debit card at an ATM in Spain to get
Euros, but the airport fees for doing so are high. It is advisable to get Euros from AAA or a large
bank (TD Bank; Bank of America; etc.) ahead of time - can take a week or so. Plan ahead.
• Durable, resuable water bottle
• Quick-dry towel
• Chargers for your phone/tablet/earbuds/watch, as needed
• Portable back-up charger, if needed
• Deck of cards or other portable games, if desired
It's a good idea to roll your clothing or use packing cubes - it saves a ton of space! YouTube has
lots of good videos on how to do this without wrinkling every single item.
Tour Groups: For attendance and management only
We'll be together most of the time on the trip since we're a small group anyhow.
(listed in traveler packets)
No one goes anywhere alone. Be safe and smart!
TENTATIVE ROOMMATE GROUPS (subject to change depending on availability at hotels)
(listed in traveler packets)
===PAGE 6===
LUNENDURE
Lunenburg High School
1079 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Phone: (978) 582-4115
Facsimile: (978) 582-4153
LUNCHBURG MASTE
D18
TIMOTHY SANTRY
LMHS Principal
KEVIN BIGELOW
Athletic Director
KARMA TOUSIGNANT
Assistant Principal
YANINA BURNS
Assistant Principal
Consent for Emergency Medical Care
I am the parent or guardian of
, a student at Lunenburg Middle-High
School. In the event that this student requires emergency medical treatment, I authorize the school
representative (Lynn Radford) to obtain such care as may become necessary in the course of his/her/their
attendance on the Spain Trip of 2025.
I understand that necessary medical care may take place outside the local area.
I understand that it is a legal requirement that I give permission to the School to obtain emergency medical
treatment.
Parent/guardian signature:
Printed name of parent/guardian:
Phone:
Phone:
Date:
(home)
(cell)
Other possible contact people, relationship, and phone numbers:
PLEASE COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION
Student's Full Name:
Date of Birth:
Existing Medical Conditions:
Treatment (if necessary):
===PAGE 7===
Doctor's name and phone #:
Allergies (any):
Prescription Medication: (name, dosage, Rx Number)
Please ensure all prescriptions are packed in original bottles OR with the label printout from the pharmacy
accompanying the new containers.
Insurance Company:
Subscriber Name:
ID Number: J
Special Dietary Needs:
(vegan, etc.)
Special instructions to the teacher/chaperones: _
Please note that students carry their own medication on their person, are responsible for
self-administration according to their regular schedule, and should also be carrying inhalers and
Epi-pens if needed.
===PAGE 8===
Spain Trip: Airport Transfer and Passport Copy
As we get closer to our trip, we need to take care of three important items: money for the limo
van to and from the airport, passport information, and the mandatory meeting.
First, we have booked the limo transport via Knight's Limo Co. The cost per student and per
parent traveling is $66.00. Students are asked to bring cash or a check (made out to Town of
Lunenburg with "Spain trip" in the memo) to school for this amount no later than
Friday, March 7, 2025, so that we have time to make the deposit into the school account in
time to pay the transportation company. Anyone who needs more time should contact Ms.
Radford directly at Iradford@lunenburgschools.net.
Secondly, while Walking Tree Travel requires that travelers upload a copy of their passport
information pages, LHS requires that one color photocopy of your passport info (photo) page
also be taken and brought to school. These will be carried by the group leader (Radford) at all
times in case there is ever any issue while we are abroad and we need easy access to your
passport number and info. This doesn't typically happen, but for example if you lost your
passport while we are in Spain and we had to go to the embassy, it's helpful to have a copy of
that page that contains your passport number and photo ID. Color copies can be made at
home, at Staples, etc. Please remember that, as a general rule, travelers are either going to
carry their passports with them at all times or have them locked in the safe at the hotel.
However, entry to museums etc. requires students to show passports in order to enter at the
student pricing that was booked by WTT, so you'll usually have it with you. We can take these
at any time between now and the end of March; in the past, parents have just brought them to
the meeting (below).
And finally, there will be a mandatory parent/guardian and traveler meeting Monday,
March 17 at 6:00 p.m. for anyone going on the trip; student travelers must attend the
meeting with a parent/legal guardian. The meeting will be in B203 (Ms. Radford's room).
The meeting should last about two hours.
The primary purpose of this meeting is ensure each family hears the same messaging
regarding details, rules, safety, and itinerary specifics. Gabriel Duncan, our representative from
Walking Tree Travel, will present from 6:30 to approx 7:30 and will answer any questions that
you may have. We will use our time before and after his presentation to cover the
Lunenburg-specific information (rules, expectations, traveler tips, packing questions, timeline,
etc.) and to fill out necessary paperwork. Please arrive with the traveler's insurance card,
physician's name and phone number, and the names/dosages of any medications the traveler
takes - all of which need to be filled in on the required LMHS medical form for travel.
===PAGE 9===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS
FIELD TRIP APPROVAL FORM
(All field trips must be approved by the Principal prior to booking venues)
Please submit this form to the Principal at least 15 school days before the date of
the trip.
Today's Date: 10/06/24
School: _MHS
Grade: 9-12
Destination:
Spain - updated form for date change and costs
Address:
Date of Field Trip: April 17-25, 2025
Departure time: 4/17
7:00 p.m.
Number of Students:
13
4/25 11 PM
Return time back to school:
Field Trip Coordinator: Lynn Radford
4
Total Number of Adults:
# of Staff:
, 2
_# of Chaperones: Z
Any parent chaperones must be CORT approved. Please provide a list of all chaperones (staff and parent)
to School Secretary two weeks (14 school days) prior to field trip.
Justification for field trip (Curriculum Connection): Cullural exploration of Spain, connected to
Spanish curriculum but open to all students for cultural awareness. Trip destinations
include Barcelona, Figures, Valencia, Granada, and travel through the region of Andalusia.
Transportation: Bus company requested: private - Knight's Limo
Phone: 508-839-6252
Special Transport Needed? Yes Elif yes explain: private coach to/from airport ($60)
Funding.
Cost per student:
$4,269
Funding Breakdown:
Venue Cost: 3,190 (trip) Transportation (cost per bus/#t of buses) $1,019
Other:
$60
Source: (check all that apply) Students: X
PTO funds: _
School Budget:
Principal's Approval: _
_Date: /Ili3/24
Superintendents Approval: See pursdan
_Date:
41/13/24
When approved by Principal and Superintendent please provide copy to:
School Secretary
School Nurse
Cafeteria Manager.
