===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Schools Extended Day Handbook 2025/2026  
The Lunenburg Public Schools offer Extended Day services for families of students enrolled in the 
Lunenburg Public Schools and to children of school employees K through grade 5. Children are 
required to be toilet trained to attend. A summer program is also  offered for students entering 1st 
grade through grade 5 and will be located  at the Lunenburg Primary School. Please note our new 
location for the school year  Extended Day Program (drop off): the morning session for all 
students will be  located at Turkey  Hill Elementary School and the afternoon session for all 
students will be located at the Lunenburg Primary School (pick up). This handbook outlines 
the  services to assist you in determining if the program meets the needs of your family.  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Rates and fees………………………………………………………2  
Enrollment/Attendance………………………………………….... 2  
Registrations………………………………………………………...2/3  
Pre-Registration…………………………………………………......3  
Pick-Up and Drop-off Procedures……………………………….... 3  
Medications/Health…………………………………………….…. 3  
Rules, Conduct and Discipline…………………………………...…3/4  
Hours of Operation………………………………………………… 4/5  
Early Release & Full PD Days  
Inclement Weather  
Vacations  
Summer  
           Daily Activities….………………………………………………… 5  
Indoor/outdoor activities  
Snacks  
   
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
Rates and Fees 
The Extended Day Program is a self -sustaining program, and all fees collected are allocated to 
program costs. The rate for extended day services is established by the School Committee on an 
annual basis. Please check the web site or registration form for t he annual rates. *The current rate 
is  $12 per morning session and $12 per afternoon session for students Grades K -2;  and $9.00 per 
morning session and $12.00 per afternoon session for students Grades 3-5. 
email  
pmccarthy-guillette@lunenburgschools.net  or visit our website at  
http://www.lunenburgschools.net/extended day-program.  
Families will be billed for services rendered at the  middle of each calendar month. The bill is 
based upon a block-billing rate.  
Statements are distributed by the 20th day of the month and payments are due on the 1st of the next 
month. If the 1st falls  on a weekend, payment will be due on the next school day. Paym ent is 
expected on the due date unless prior arrangements are made. Please speak to the program Director 
if you are having difficulty paying your bill on time. Carrying an outstanding balance may result in 
your child being removed from the program. If a child is picked up later than 5:30 p.m., there will 
be an additional charge of $1.00 per minute . If a pattern of tardiness continues your child will 
be suspended or removed from the program.  
Enrollment/Attendance  
Online Registrations will be available on Monday May 5, 2025  
Parents will pay for set schedule, (even if not used)  
Registration forms and emergency contact information must be filled out every year in advance 
for each child attending the program. These are specific forms for the Extended Day Program 
and separate from any forms filled out for the school administration.  
An established cap for a.m. and p.m. sessions will be determined on a yearly basis, not to exceed 
75 per session.  
PLEASE NOTE  
We require a schedule of attendance be provided for each child so that we ensure appropriate levels 
of supervision. It is the parents’ responsibility to notify the school and Extended Day of their 
child’s schedule. No drop-ins and as needed registrations are not available.  
A schedule of registration notices and deadlines will be issued as needed through school 
publications and on the school website. 
Any child returning on a bus will be dropped off at the Superintendent’s Office and a 
parent will be notified. 
 
If there is insufficient enrollment, services may be cancelled. You will receive a 
minimum one-week notice if a decision to cancel services is made.  
You can withdraw your child without penalty with one week advanced notice.  
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Pick-up and Drop-off Procedures  
It is required that adults must sign-in/sign-out their child both in the morning and the afternoon. 
This is for your child’s safety. Your child will only be released to those individuals listed on the 
registration form. You must notify staff in writing or call if someone not on the list is coming to 
pick up your child, or we will not release him/her.  
Please have an ID available when picking up your child.  
Medications/ Health  
Medication policies at Extended Day are the same as those set forth in the student handbook. No 
medications will be dispensed at Extended Day other than those designated as emergency 
medications (i.e., Epi -pens, inhalers). Staff are trained in first -aid, E pi-pen, CPR and AED 
Defibrillator.  
 The parent/guardian of any child on an inhaler or epi-pen should talk to the Extended 
Day Director/Coordinator and establish a written health plan for the time the child is 
enrolled in the Extended Day program.  
   There is no on site medical personal/nursing staff  dedicated to this program 
Rules, Conduct and Discipline  
Behavior and discipline standards at Extended Day are consistent with those of the school district. 
Students are expected to conduct themselves according to the standards set forth in their student 
handbook. Please refer to the current handbook for a fully detailed explanation.  
 
 All members of the Extended Day program are expected to treat each other with courtesy 
and respect at all times.  
 Students will show respect for school property and the property of others. 
∙ Bullying is absolutely not tolerated.  
 Toys and other personal items not required for the regular school day are prohibited from 
Extended Day.  
 Through both environmental and instructional structure, we strive to foster positive behavior 
and self -management in students, greatly reducing the need to ‘discipline’ or correct 
behaviors.  
 Children may be given a verbal reminder to correct inappropria te conduct. If the behavior 
continues, the child will be asked to separate from the situation for a brief period of time in 
order to collect themselves and may reenter the activity once they are able to choose 
appropriate behavior.  
 If a child continues to be unable to manage themselves, then a parent will be notified.  
If behavior continues or is detrimental to the program or other students, then       
administrative intervention will be sought up to and including suspension or removal 
                            from the program. We document behavioral issues to be discussed with a parent.  
PLEASE NOTE: Privacy issues limit the school administration from sharing behavior/education 
plans with Extended Day staff without the written consent of the parent. Please do not assume that 
we have access to this kind of information. If there is information that would be helpful in providing 
the best possible care for your child, please speak to the program director/coordinator to share any 
pertinent information.  
===PAGE 4===
Hours of Operation  
Extended Day K-Grade 5 Before and After School:  
Standard hours of operation during the school year are 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 am and 3: 30-5:30 p.m., 
Monday through Friday. The before school program starts at 7:00 a.m.; the after -school program 
starts at 3:30 p.m.   
                        Early Release Days  
The Extended Day after-school session will start after The Primary School and THES dismissal 
time and operate 12:30-5:30 p.m. (Block billing rate) Registration for half days will be available 
the week prior and students must be current registered students to attend. 
Full Day Professional Development: The Extended Day program is CLOSED on full day 
professional development days so that the staff may participate in PD offerings.  
Inclement Weather  
Extended Day services will be closed on weather emergency days. For delayed openings, the 
Extended Day Program opens when the school opens. Please have an alternate plan for your 
child if Extended Day close s early.  Contact your child’s school Secretary to  provide 
information about any and all changes made to your child’s schedule. 
Vacations  
Services will not be offered on April and February school vacations  
*Closed during the December break in accordance with the district.  
Summer  
The Summer Program ( 4 weeks Monday -Thursday 8:30-3:00 pm) begins July 14th  and will 
close August 7th.  
Dates, Themes and Field trips will be posted April 28th for parents to plan accordingly. *If 
a child attends the summer program that requires extra support, a parent will be asked to 
chaperone on field trip days.  
The summer program payments are due the Monday of each week. Payments are non-
refundable once you register.  
Daily Activities 
Indoor activities  
All children attending the extended day program will be allowed to choose from numerous games 
and activities.  
Outdoor activities  
Students enrolled in the extended day program will go outside. Please be sure that children are 
properly dressed each day for outdoor recess and clothes are labeled.  
Snacks  
Children must provide their own snack/drink while attending Extended Day. This is in accordance 
with the school’s policy on snacks due to the number of children with food allergies. Please refrain 
from sending snacks containing nuts. 
 
===PAGE 5===
Non-Discrimination Statement  
Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to maintaining a work and learning environment free from 
discrimination on the basis of race , color, religion, national origin, pregnancy, gender identity, 
sexual orientation, marital/civil union status, ancestry, place of birth, age, citizenship status, veteran 
status, political affiliation, housing status, migrant status, language spoken, genetic information or 
disability, as defined and required by state and federal laws. Additionally, we prohibit retaliation 
against individuals who oppose such discrimination and harassment or who participate in an equal 
opportunity investigation. 
 
. 
  
 