===PAGE 1===
Free Cash FY26
Recommendations for School Committee Consideration
April 16, 2025
===PAGE 2===
Ways to Consider Using One Time Funds
Restore 
positions
Position 
well for 
FY27
Restore 
expense 
cuts
After some 
consideration the SC 
prioritized restoring 
positions in FY26
===PAGE 3===
Restore Positions
Grade 5 teacher at THES ($97,230) 
◦ Provides equitable class size for all grade levels K-5; reduces class size for grade 5 allowing for more thorough interventions and small group work. 
Math teacher at LHS  ($95,659)  
● Provides Unified Arts electives: coding , CAD, computer science.  
Special Education Teacher at Primary School ($95,612)
◦ NEW position. Current TLC Primary program has two distinct populations (subseparate and inclusion).  Need to separate program in order to meet students' needs and prevent a possible OOD placement. Current teacher has Severe Licensure to run the substantially separate classroom. TLC inclusion position would be the new hire.  Plan would be for this "TLC inclusion" position to move up to THES next year when we need to separate the TLC/ACHIEVE classroom due to forecasted numbers next year.  ***We advised the Committee when the FY25 budget cuts were made that this position would have to be restored for THES in FY27*** (a special education teacher whose position was cut for FY26 will be reassigned to this position)
===PAGE 4===
Restore Positions
LMHS Assistant Principal/Athletic Director  & Athletic Secretary (PT) ($43,061) ◦ AD resignation; this restructure calls for one of the three LMHS APs to assume the AD responsibility (creating an AP/AD split position).  The athletic secretary position must be restored to support a reduced AD role. This dollar value accounts for the secretary and the differential between the AP salary that had been cut from the budget and the AD salary that was included in the budget.  There are 97 504 Plans at LMHS.  The APs coordinate, communicate with guardians, develop and write plans, and ensure compliance with the plans. There are 73 LMHS teacher evaluations to be completed annually.  This case load will be distributed to two rather than three APs; therefore caseload is increased.  APs enforce school policies, oversee student behavior, work directly with students to address behavioral issues, conduct bullying investigations and write investigation reports.  APs respond to emergencies, de-escalate conflicts, provide immediate support to students and staff, track and monitor student attendance, address concerns of chronic absenteeism (this is a priority focus area of DESE), develop appropriate interventions with staff members, communicate with families, ensure adequate staffing for the building, hire and assign substitutes daily, communicate and coordinate with substitutes.  The APs cover lunch duty, arrival/dismissals, attendance at school and athletic events and build the master schedule.  The workload is increased significantly for the two remaining APs; timeliness of response, communication, resolution, reporting is negatively impacted.  This impacts the overall climate and culture of the school for students and staff.
===PAGE 5===
Restore Positions
MTSS at Primary School/ or 2 Paras ($69,991) ● Covers the potential loss of the Title I offset; Title I grant funding to MA is currently in question.  If Title I funding is lost, we recommend funding the Primary School MTSS position with free cash.  If Title I funding is available, we would recommend using free cash to restore one para position in ACE; this would allow students to engage more with the community. With the upcoming move to THES, increased community involvement will be even more beneficial. Currently, a staff member can only transport two students at a time. This fall, the program will begin with at least seven students. Adding another staff member will expand opportunities for students to participate in job site visits and community events. Restoring a second para position elsewhere in the district (TBD based on need) will provide essential support to both students and teachers. It allows for more individualized instruction, better classroom management, and improved student engagement. Paraprofessional helps facilitate inclusion, and enhances safety, supervision, and overall learning outcomes.Special Education Teacher/MTSS Teacher at THES ($27,384) ● Covers the potential loss of the Title I offset; Title I grant funding to MA is currently in question. If Title I funding is available, we would apply it to other Title I allowable expenses.
===PAGE 6===
Position well for FY27 Budget and beyond
 Business Manager position ($20,000)  ● Add money to the budgeted position to attract a stronger qualified candidate
 Primary School Minisplits ($25,000)
 ● The schools received a Green Communities grant that will partially fund Phase II of the Primary School minisplit project (FY27 capital plan).  In order to complete the project in a timeline that will allow the Green Committee to pursue another grant round in the fall of 2025, the School Committee voted to withdraw FY26 capital projects originally included in the Town Manager's FY26 Capital Plan and replace with the minisplit project.  With capital funding in FY26, the project can be completed in the summer of 2025.  The FY26 capital projects will be resubmitted in FY27. The capital funding falls short and the remaining balance will be funded through free cash. Any remaining funds could be applied to athletic transportation.
 Unemployment Costs ($26,063) 
◦ Supplement the unemployment line in the budget. Currently refining the list of staff who may be eligible to collect unemployment.  We have a few resignations, retirements, and open positions and therefore not all cuts will result in unemployment claims.  We are working with the LEA to finalize the list of their members as we need to factor in bumping rights and licenses.  We will work with the Town Finance Director to determine an appropriate amount based on the actual list with salaries.
 