===PAGE 1===
 
CSS Architects Inc. – WBE Certified  
107 Audubon Rd., Bldg. 2, Suite 300, Wakefield, MA, 01880 | 781.245.8400 | Fax 781.245.9372 |  
Kaja Martin-Savasta, President | ksavasta@cssarchitects.com | www.cssarchitects.com
 
April 25, 2025 
      
Dr. Susan Gilson 
Director of Administration and Finance 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
1025 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Subject: 
 
 
Turkey Hill ADA Study 
For Renovation and 
Building Assessment 
 
Re: 
 
Study and Schematic Design 
Report 
 
 
 
Dear Dr. Susan Gilson: 
 
CSS Architects Inc has prepared this report as outlined in the RFS and in our proposal. The goal and 
objective being to assist the Town’s decision making process with regard to further improvement of 
aging facilities, and potential future phasing and funding requirements. 
 
What follows is an overview of our understanding and summary of our findings and 
recommendations as outlined in the report which is a review and analysis of existing conditions of 
building systems  and recommendations (e.g., roof, windows, boilers, HVAC system ,electrical 
service and distribution, and ADA compliance requirements. 
CSS Architects along with our engineers visited the school in December 2024 to understand and 
gather information on the condition of the school and its components, mainly the roof, windows and 
doors, ADA compliance and mechanical, electrical, plumbing and fire protection. 
THES provided CSS with the original construction drawings, past reports and current drawings for 
the exterior door replacement and fire alarm upgrades and security systems. The report from Vertex 
in 2018 on the Property Condition Assessment was very detailed and after reading it we discovered 
that most of it is still relevant to today’s condition and recommendations that were made then 
including an accessibility assessment from 2009.  
The following is a brief summary of our findings and recommendations that is included in the Report. 
The  original drawings depict accurately the layout and construction of the school as it is now as it is 
now. There have been minimal changes to the school since it was built. The roof has been replaced 
since then with a single ply membrane which is in fair condition given its age of more than 30 years. 
The windows are original and in poor condition.  CSS recommends that both should be replaced as 
a high priority. The cost of these items together would require ADA compliance for the entire 
building. 
CSS realizing this focused our efforts on these  areas. The accessibility upgrades to meet 521 CMR 
are not unsurmountable. Mainly the toilet rooms would need to be upgraded as shown in the report.  
Some items might be granted a variance such as the music room area. The locker rooms since they 
are no longer used for that purpose were not considered to be required to meet accessibility.  
===PAGE 2===
Turkey Hill ADA Study for Renovation and Assessment 
Summary 
April 25, 2025 
Page 2 of 2 
 
CSS Architects Inc. – WBE Certified  
107 Audubon Rd., Bldg. 2, Suite 300, Wakefield, MA, 01880 | 781.245.8400 | Fax 781.245.9372 |  
Kaja Martin-Savasta, President | ksavasta@cssarchitects.com | www.cssarchitects.com
As explained in the report the threshold for full building compliance is based on scope of renovations 
that would exceed 30 percent of the assessed building value within a 3 year period. The roof and 
window replacement alone would exceed this. 
The report also investigated and evaluated the mechanical, electrical and plumbing components. 
Many schools are looking to change from fossil fuels to electrification. THES currently has a gas 
fueled heating system; while still functioning properly it is reaching the end of its useful life. 
Conversion to a fully electric heat pump system throughout is a costly option but would be eligible 
for MSBA ARP grant funds. Planning into the budget for replacement of its existing systems with 
more energy efficient systems is recommended if the funding is not available to replace the entire 
system. 
The existing lighting was retrofitted with LED in  2019  but the controls are outdated and CSS 
recommends replacement with LED fixtures and occupancy sensors to reduce energy costs. 
The building interior components were also evaluated in 2018 as good to fair for flooring, wall 
finishes, ceilings and casework .CSS noted the conditions during our investigation and found them 
to be in same condition. Certainly, walls can be painted and floor finishes updated to freshen up the 
school. These costs are minimal compared to the other more critical costs. 
As far as providing guidance to restoring the building I hope that CSS has outlined some of the 
architectural and engineering components , such as roof replacement and window replacement to  
provide a functioning and energy efficient building envelope and reduce energy costs, ADA 
upgrades to make it more accessible and replacement of outdated and failing heating and ventilating 
equipment for 20 plus years of dependable service.  
Today’s cost to build a new school  range between  $750 -$1,000 per square foot. The costs to 
implement the recommended renovation options range between $225 -$250 per square foot. And 
with most expensive MEP option $350 per square foot.  
CSS Architects was hired to evaluate the building components and have no information to evaluate 
the programmatic requirements as far as educational requirements of an elementary school for 
today’s needs. Given the student and staff size, the size of classrooms and the ancillary spaces ,this 
does not appear to be a driving factor in the decision to renovate or raise this building . 
 
 
Very Truly Yours, 
CSS Architects Inc 
 
Kaja Martin-Savasta, AIA,LEED AP 
President 
 
 
 
 