===PAGE 1===
New Competency Determination (CD) Law
State law requires students to satisfy the requirements of the “competency determination” (CD) in order to graduate from high 
school. G.L. c. 69, s. 1D (i). Ballot Question 2 amends the competency determination requirements as shown below, where 
the text that is underlined is newly added and the text that has been struck through is removed.
The ''competency determination'' shall be based on the academic standards and curriculum frameworks for tenth 
graders in the areas of mathematics, science and technology, history and social science, foreign languages, and 
English, and shall represent a determination that a particular student has demonstrated mastery of a common core of 
skills, competencies and knowledge in these areas, as measured by the assessment instruments described in section 
one I by satisfactorily completing coursework that has been certified by the student’s district as showing mastery of 
the skills, competencies, and knowledge contained in the state academic standards and curriculum frameworks in 
the areas measured by the MCAS high school tests described in section one I administered in 2023, and in any 
additional areas determined by the board. Satisfaction of the requirements of the competency determination shall be a 
condition for high school graduation. 
If the particular student's assessment results for the tenth grade do not demonstrate the required level of competency, the 
student shall have the right to participate in the assessment program the following year or years. Students who fail to 
satisfy the requirements of the competency determination may be eligible to receive an educational assistance plan 
designed within the confines of the foundation budget to impart the skills, competencies and knowledge required to attain the 
required level of mastery. The parent, guardian or person acting as parent of the student shall have the opportunity to 
review the remedial plan with the student's teachers. Nothing in this section shall be construed to provide a parent, 
guardian, person acting as a parent or student with an entitlement to contest the proposed plan or with a cause of action for 
educational malpractice if the student fails to obtain a competency determination.
