===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 5700 
Prevention and Management of Sports-related 
Head Injuries “Concussion” Policy 5717 
 
It is the policy of the Lunenburg Public Schools (LPS) to insure access to a free and 
appropriate education for all students within the Town of Lunenburg. In order to ensure full 
access for all student athletes, band members and other students who engage in extracurricular 
activities, the LPS will ensure compliance with M.G.L. c. 111, § 222 as it pertains to education of 
students who participate in extracurricular athletic activities including marching band regarding 
the prevention and management of sports-related head injuries. 
 
It is the policy of the LPS to establish and regularly review appropriate procedures that 
comply with M.G.L. c. 111, § 222 and 105 CMR 201.000 from the Department of Public Health 
within the Lunenburg Public Schools. The policy will be reviewed by Sept. 30, 2013 and every 2 
years thereafter. The procedures will address the following: 
 
● Designation, by the superintendent of the person responsible for the 
implementation of the policy and procedures. 
● Procedure for providing information, and necessary forms and materials, to all 
parents and athletes including the: 
○ annual training requirement; 
○ procedure for the school to notify parents when an athlete has been 
removed from play for a head injury or suspected concussion; 
○ protocol for obtaining medical clearance for return to play and academics 
after a diagnosed concussion; 
○ parent’s responsibility for completion of the Pre-participation Form, or 
school-based equivalent; and 
○ parent’s responsibility for completion of the Report of a Head Injury Form, 
or school-based equivalent. 
● Inclusion in the student and parent handbooks of information regarding the 
sports-related head injury policy and how to obtain the policy; 
● Procedure for communicating with parents with limited English proficiency; 
● Annual training of persons specified in 105 CMR 201.007 in the prevention and 
recognition of sports-related head injury, and associated health risks including 
second impact syndrome 
● Medical evaluation and or yearly physical and a medical or nursing review of 
concussion history prior to participation in athletics or marching band. 
● Procedure for outreach to parents who do not return completed forms required 
for students to participate in extracurricular sports and for how to handle 
situations where a student verifies completion of the annual training requirement 
but a parent has not; 
● Instructions to coaches, certified athletic trainers, trainers, and volunteers (a) 
===PAGE 2===
● to teach form, techniques, and skills and promote protective equipment use to 
minimize sports-related head injury, and (b) to prohibit athletes from engaging in 
any unreasonably dangerous athletic technique that endangers the health or 
safety of an athlete, such as using a helmet or any other sports equipment as a 
weapon; 
● Procedure for reporting head injuries or suspected concussions sustained during 
extracurricular athletic activities to the school nurse and certified athletic trainer, if 
on staff; 
● Procedure for identifying a head injury or suspected concussion, removing an 
athlete from practice or competition, and referring for medical evaluation; 
● Procedure for the school to obtain and ensure timely medical or nursing review of 
“Report of Head Injury Form”, or school-based equivalent, in the event of a head 
injury or suspected concussion that takes place during the extracurricular activity 
season; 
● Procedure for sharing information concerning an athlete’s history of head injury 
and concussion, recuperation, reentry plan, and authorization to return to play 
and academic activities on a need to know basis consistent with requirements of 
105 CMR 201.000 and applicable federal and state law including but not limited 
to the Massachusetts Student Records Regulations, 603 CMR 23.00, and the 
Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Regulations, 34 CFR Part 99. 
● Procedure for the development and implementation of post-concussion 
graduated reentry plans to school and academic activities, if indicated, by 
persons specified in 105 CMR 201.010(E)(1); 
● The protocol for medical clearance for return to play after a concussion that at 
minimum complies with 105 CMR 201.011; 
● Penalties, including but not limited to personnel sanctions and forfeiture of 
games, for failure to comply with provisions of the school district’s policy. 
 
It is the LPS's expectation that both the district and building-based procedures and 
guidelines will take into account the health needs and well-being of all students without 
discrimination or isolation of any student. 
 
The LPS recognizes that parents have the primary responsibility for the health of their 
children. It is parents’ responsibility to inform the school district when a child’s medical condition 
might affect the child’s welfare or safety. The school district will cooperate with parents and 
appropriate health professionals. Effective communication is vital between all parties. 
 
Background 
 
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a serious public health problem in the United States. Each 
year, traumatic brain injuries contribute to a substantial number of deaths and cases of 
permanent disability. Recent data shows that, on average, approximately 1.7 million people 
sustain a traumatic brain injury annually. 
 
===PAGE 3===
A TBI is caused by a bump, blow or jolt to the head or a penetrating head injury that 
disrupts the normal function of the brain. Not all blows or jolts to the head result in a 
TBI. The severity of a TBI may range from “mild,” i.e., a brief change in mental status or 
consciousness to “severe,” i.e., an extended period of unconsciousness or amnesia after the 
injury. The majority of TBIs that occur each year are concussions or other forms of mild TBI. 
 
Purpose and Scope 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools cannot guarantee the safety of student athletes and band 
members or prevent any harm to students in emergencies. The goal is to work towards 
minimizing the risk of traumatic brain injury by educating the students, family, coaches, nurses 
and community volunteers and regularly update a system-wide protocol that is compliant with 
M.G.L. c. 111, § 222 and 105 CMR 201.000 in prevention by education and timely response to 
students with suspected traumatic brain injury. A system-wide effort requires the cooperation of 
all parties within the system. 
 
The goal of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to engage in an effort to: 
 
● Prevent traumatic brain injury and second impact syndrome via judicious pre-
participation review of records and education and training of all athletes, parents, 
coaches, nurses and volunteers 
● Respond appropriately to witnessing suspected traumatic brain injury or receiving 
medical confirmation of same 
● Provide appropriate accommodations for the student with TBI during post concussion 
recovery according to best practice and medical documentation. 
_--_ 
References: 
 
Traumatic Brain Injury http://www.cdc.gov/TraumaticBrainInjury/index.html 
Frequently asked questions/ Department of Public Health 
http://www.mass.gov/Eeohhs2/docs/dph/com_health/injury/head_injury_faq.pdf 
Legal Issues in School Health Services, Schwab and Gelfman pages 266-268 
 
Approved by School Committee: December 7, 2011 
 