===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
INTEGRATED MONITORING  
REVIEW REPORT 
Office of Public School Monitoring 
 
For Group A Universal Standards 
 
Dates of Onsite Visit: April 16-17, 2025 
Date of Report: May 30, 2025 
Action Plan Due: Jume 30, 2025 
 
 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Onsite Team Members: 
Corey Steinman, Chairperson 
Charles Agong 
Michael McDonald 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick Tutwiler 
Interim Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary Education
===PAGE 2===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 2 of 17 
 
 
MASSACHUSETTS DEPARTMENT OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 
INTEGRATED MONITORING REVIEW REPORT 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 
INTEGRATED MONITORING REVIEW REPORT INTRODUCTION ........................................... 3 
INTEGRATED MONITORING REVIEW DETAILS ........................................................................... 6 
DEFINITION OF COMPLIANCE RATINGS ........................................................................................ 7 
SUMMARY OF COMPLIANCE CRITERIA RATINGS ...................................................................... 8 
SUMMARY OF INDICATOR DATA REVIEW..................................................................................... 9 
LEGAL STANDARDS, COMPLIANCE RATINGS AND FINDINGS: ............................................. 10 
SPECIAL EDUCATION .......................................................................................................................... 10 
CIVIL RIGHTS AND OTHER RELATED GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS ............. 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 3 of 17 
MASSACHUSETTS DEPARTMENT OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 
OFFICE OF PUBLIC SCHOOL MONITORING 
INTEGRATED MONITORING REVIEW REPORT INTRODUCTION 
 
During the 2024-2025 school year, Lunenburg Public Schools participated in an Integrated Monitoring 
Review (IMR) conducted by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education’s (DESE or 
Department) Office of Public School Monitoring (PSM). The purpose of the Integrated Monitoring 
Review is to monitor compliance with regulatory requirements focusing on special education and civil 
rights.  
 
Components of the Integrated Monitoring Review 
 
 
Integrated Monitoring is one of eight components of a state’s general supervision system. One aspect of 
Integrated Monitoring is the Integrated Monitoring Review. Each school district, charter school, 
vocational school, and virtual school undergoes an Integrated Monitoring Review every three years. The 
Department’s Office of Public School Monitoring (PSM) is responsible for conducting these reviews and 
works closely with offices throughout the Department including, but not limited to, the Office of Special 
Education Planning and Policy (SEPP), Problem Resolution System Office (PRS), and the Office of 
Approved Special Education Schools (OASES) to promote cohesion and collaboration across the 
Department’s general supervision system. As set forth in the diagram above, Integrated Monitoring 
Review is one of the multilayered, cohesive, and formal processes employed by the Department to 
examine and evaluate all LEAs’ implementation of IDEA with a particular emphasis on educational 
results, functional outcomes, and compliance. 
 
The monitoring cycle is posted at Integrated Monitoring Review Three Year Cycle.  
 
Regularly monitored standards are divided into two groups, known as Group A Universal Standards and 
Group B Universal Standards. Districts and schools are monitored on an alternate set of Universal 
Standards every three years.  
 
Group A Universal Standards address: 
 Student identification 
 IEP development 
 Programming and support services 
 Equal opportunity 
 
===PAGE 4===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 4 of 17 
Group B Universal Standards address: 
 Licensure and professional development 
 Parent/student/community engagement 
 Facilities and classroom observations 
 Oversight 
 Time and learning 
 Equal access 
 
The Department has also reserved a specific set of criteria, collectively known as Focused Standards, 
which are reviewed if the Department deems appropriate due to concerns with those particular standards.  
In those circumstances, the identified Focused Standards are assessed in addition to the Universal 
Standards.  
 
Universal Standards and Focused Standards are aligned with the following regulations: 
 
Special Education (SE) 
 Selected requirements from the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 
U.S.C. § 1400 et seq and accompanying regulations at 34 CFR Part 300. 
 Massachusetts General Law Chapter 71B, and the Massachusetts Special Education regulations 
(603 CMR 28.00). 
 
Civil Rights Methods of Administration and Other General Education Requirements (CR) 
 Specific federal civil rights requirements, including requirements under the Every Student 
Succeeds Act (ESSA); Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; the Equal Educational 
Opportunities Act of 1974; Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, together 
with select state requirements under M.G.L. c. 76, § 5 and M.G.L. c. 269 §§ 17 through 19. 
 Specific requirements from the Massachusetts Physical Restraint regulations (603 CMR 46.00). 
 Specific requirements from the Massachusetts Student Learning Time regulations (603 CMR 
27.00). 
 Specific requirements from the Massachusetts Student Records regulations (603 CMR 23.00). 
 Various requirements under other federal and state laws and regulations. 
 
Integrated Monitoring Review Process: 
 
Discovery: During the Discovery stage, the PSM chairperson analyzes data and information to prepare 
for the onsite visit. The chairperson also reviews documents submitted by the district/school. 
 
Engagement: The Engagement stage of the Integrated Monitoring Review includes all activities 
conducted onsite and/or virtually through the issuance of the Integrated Monitoring Review Report. Such 
activities may include record review, interviews, and observations. 
 
Close-out: Once the Report is issued, the Close-out stage begins for the schools and districts with any 
identified findings of noncompliance. The Close-out stage includes the development of the Correction 
Action Plan and completion of subsequent progress reports to ensure all instances of noncompliance are 
resolved within one year of the issuance of the Integrated Monitoring Review Report. 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 5 of 17 
PSM Team:  
Depending upon the size of a school district and the number of special education programs to be 
reviewed, a team of one to four Department staff members conducts onsite activities over one to five days 
in a school district or charter school. 
 
Report for Integrated Monitoring Reviews: 
The Integrated Monitoring Review Report will be issued within approximately 30 days of the conclusion 
of the onsite visit. 
 
Pre-finding Corrections: 
During the Discovery and Engagement stages of the review, PSM staff may find that the district/school  
violated an IDEA requirement prior to the issuance of a finding in the Integrated Monitoring Review 
Report. In such cases, PSM staff may implement the pre-finding correction protocol. If PSM staff verify 
that the identified noncompliance is resolved prior to the issuance of the report, no finding is made. 
However, a list of any pre-finding corrections will be included in the Integrated Monitoring Review 
Report. More information regarding the pre-finding correction protocol can be found in the PSM 
procedures at https://www.doe.mass.edu/psm/procedures.docx. 
 
Ratings: In the Integrated Monitoring Review Report, the onsite team gives a rating for each compliance 
criterion it has reviewed; those ratings are “Commendable,” “Implemented,” “Implementation in 
Progress,” “Partially Implemented,” “Not Implemented,” “Not Applicable,” and “Prior Noncompliance - 
Corrective Action Under Review.” 
 
The onsite team includes a comment in the Integrated Monitoring Review Report for each criterion that it 
rates “Commendable,” “Partially Implemented,” “Not Implemented,” or “Prior Noncompliance - 
Corrective Action Under Review,” explaining the basis for the rating. 
 
Corrective Action: Where criteria are found “Partially Implemented” or “Not Implemented,” a corrective 
action plan (CAP) is developed to bring those areas into compliance with the relevant statutes and 
regulations. Department staff work with districts and charter schools on the development of an 
appropriate CAP. 
 
PSM staff also provide ongoing technical assistance as the school or district is implementing the approved 
CAP. School districts and charter schools must demonstrate effective resolution of noncompliance 
identified by the Department as soon as possible but in no case later than one year from the 
issuance of the Department’s Final Monitoring Report. 
 
Where criteria are rated “Prior Noncompliance - Corrective Action Under Review,” the district/charter 
school will work with staff from the specific Department office that identified the noncompliance to 
develop a corrective action plan. 
 
For more information regarding the Integrated Monitoring Review Process, including district and parent 
resources, please visit < https://www.doe.mass.edu/psm/integrated/default.html>. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 6 of 17 
INTEGRATED MONITORING REVIEW DETAILS 
 for Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
The Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education conducted an Integrated 
Monitoring Review in Lunenburg Public Schools during the week of April 14, 2025, to evaluate the 
implementation of Group A Universal Standards in the program areas of special education, civil rights, 
and other related general education requirements. The team appreciated the opportunity to interview staff 
and parents, to observe classroom facilities, and to review the programs underway in the district. 
 
In preparing this report, the team reviewed extensive written documentation regarding the operation of the 
district's programs, together with information gathered by means of the following Department program 
review methods:  
 
District Civil Rights Self-Assessment Phase: 
 Review of civil rights documentation for required elements including document uploads. 
 Upon completion, the civil rights self-assessment was submitted to the Department for review. 
 
Discovery Phase: 
 District review of student records related to the Indicator Data Collection for Indicators 11, 12, 
and 13. 
 Upon completion, the results of the Indicator Data Collection for Indicators 11, 12, and 13 were 
submitted to the Department for review.  
 Review of key data points focused on educational results and functional outcomes. For more 
details regarding the data review, please see the PSM procedures at 
https://www.doe.mass.edu/psm/procedures.docx. 
 
Engagement Phase: 
 Interviews of administrative and instructional staff consistent with those criteria selected for 
onsite verification. 
 Interviews of special education parent advisory council (SEPAC) representatives and other 
telephone interviews, as requested by other parents or members of the general public. 
 Review of additional documents for special education and civil rights. 
 Surveys of parents of students in special education: Parents of students in special education were 
sent a survey that solicited information regarding their experiences with the district’s 
implementation of special education programs, related services, and procedural requirements. 
 Review of student records for special education: The Department selected a sample of student 
records from the district’s special education student roster. The onsite team conducted this 
review, using standard Department procedures, to determine whether procedural and 
programmatic requirements have been met. 
 Observations of time-out rooms. 
 
The Integrated Monitoring Review Report includes those criteria that were found by the team to be 
implemented in a “Commendable” manner, as well as criteria receiving a rating of "Partially 
Implemented," "Not Implemented," “Implementation in Progress”, and “Prior Noncompliance - 
Corrective Action Under Review.” (Refer to the “Definition of Compliance Ratings” section of the 
report.) Reports do not include criteria receiving a rating of “Implemented” or “Not Applicable.” This 
will allow the district/school and the Department to focus their efforts on those areas requiring corrective 
action. Districts/schools are expected to incorporate the corrective actions into their district and school 
improvement plans, including their professional development plans. 
===PAGE 7===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 7 of 17 
 
 
DEFINITION OF COMPLIANCE RATINGS 
 
 
Commendable Any requirement or aspect of a requirement 
implemented in an exemplary manner significantly 
beyond the requirements of law or regulation. 
 
Implemented The requirement is substantially met in all important 
aspects. 
 
Implementation in Progress This rating is used for criteria containing new or 
updated legal requirements; the district has implemented 
any old requirements contained in the criterion and is 
training staff or beginning to implement the new 
requirements in such a way that the onsite team 
anticipates that the new requirements will be 
implemented by the end of the school year. 
 
Partially Implemented The requirement, in one or several important aspects, is 
not entirely met. 
 
Not Implemented The requirement is totally or substantially not met. 
 
Prior Noncompliance - Corrective 
Action Under Review 
A finding of noncompliance was made by another office 
in the Department and the school/district is currently 
undergoing corrective action activities. 
 
Not Applicable  The requirement does not apply to the school district or 
charter school. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 8===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 8 of 17 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
SUMMARY OF COMPLIANCE CRITERIA RATINGS 
 
  
Universal Standards Special 
Education 
 
Universal Standards 
Civil Rights and 
Other General 
Education 
Requirements 
 
IMPLEMENTED SE 1, SE 2, SE 3, SE 3A, SE 5, SE 6, 
SE 7, SE 8, SE 9, SE 9A, SE 10,  
SE 11, SE 12, SE 13, SE 14, SE 17, 
SE 18A, SE 19, SE 20, SE 22, SE 25, 
SE 26, SE 29, SE 34, SE 35, SE 37, 
SE 38, SE 39, SE 40, SE 41, SE 43, 
SE 44, SE 45, SE 46, SE 47, SE 48, 
SE 49 
 
CR 14 
PARTIALLY 
IMPLEMENTED 
 
SE 18B, SE 42  
NOT 
IMPLEMENTED 
 
None  
NOT 
APPLICABLE 
 
  
PRIOR NONCOMPLIANCE - 
Corrective Action Under 
Review 
 
 CR 13, CR 18 
 
 
The full list of criteria and information regarding the requirements can be found in Appendix B of the Tiered 
Focused Monitoring Toolkit available at < https://www.doe.mass.edu/psm/resources/tfm-toolkit.docx>. 
 
===PAGE 9===
Template Version 250331 
 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 9 of 17 
 
 
SUMMARY OF INDICATOR DATA REVIEW 
  
As part of the self-assessment process for districts undergoing a review for Group A Universal Standards, 
the PSM team reviewed the results of Indicator data submissions for Indicators 11, 12, and 13. The 
Indicator review is completed prior to the onsite visit and helps inform the scope of the onsite review. For 
any Indicator data noncompliance found, the district must develop and implement corrective action that 
includes correcting noncompliance for the individual students affected by it, addressing the root cause and 
underlying reasons for the identified noncompliance, and reviewing additional records as evidence that 
the issues have been corrected and that requirements are being met. The Office of Special Education 
Programs (OSEP) requires correction of noncompliance within one year of the finding. 
 
The results of the Department’s analysis regarding these Indicators are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
Compliant 
 
Non-Compliant 
 
Not Applicable 
Indicator 11 – Initial  
Evaluation Timelines 
 
 
X 
  
Indicator 12 – Early  
Childhood Transition 
 
 
X 
  
Indicator 13 –  
Secondary Transition 
 
 
X 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 10===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 10 of 17 
          
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL EDUCATION  
 
LEGAL STANDARDS,  
COMPLIANCE RATINGS AND  
FINDINGS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 11===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 11 of 17 
 
CRITERION 
NUMBER       
 
 Legal Standard 
 
SE 18B 
Determination of placement; provision of IEP to parent 
1. At the Team meeting, after the IEP has been fully developed, the Team 
determines the appropriate placement to deliver the services on the student's IEP. 
2. Unless the student's IEP requires some other arrangement, the student is 
educated in the school that he or she would attend if the student did not require 
special education. 
3. The decision regarding placement is based on the IEP, including the types of 
related services that are to be provided to the student, the type of settings in 
which those services are to be provided, the types of service providers, and the 
location at which the services are to be provided. 
4. Reserved. 
5. Immediately following the development of the IEP, the district provides the 
parent with two (2) copies of the proposed IEP and proposed placement along 
with the required notice, except that the proposal of placement may be delayed 
according to the provisions of 603 CMR 28.06(2)(e) in a limited number of 
cases. 
 State Requirements Federal Requirements 
 603 CMR 28.05(6) and (7); 28.06(2) 34 CFR 300.116; 300.325  Rating:  Partially Implemented  District Response Required: Yes 
 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Findings: 
Student record review and interviews indicated that the district does not consistently issue the 
proposed IEP and proposed placement to the parent immediately following the development of the 
IEP. 
 
  
CRITERION 
NUMBER       
 
 Legal Standard 
 
SE 42 Programs for young children three and four years of age 
General requirements: 
1. The school district ensures programs are available for eligible students three and 
four years of age.  Such programs shall be developmentally appropriate and 
specially designed for students ages three and four years. 
2. Where appropriate, the school district elects, consistent with federal 
requirements, to use the format and services of the Individualized Family 
Service Plan (IFSP), if appropriate, for an additional year as a means of 
transitioning eligible students to public school services. 
3. Where appropriate the Team allows a student to remain in a program designed 
for three and four year old students for the duration of the school year in which 
the student turns five years old (including the summer following the date of the 
student's fifth birthday). 
Types of Settings: 
===PAGE 12===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 12 of 17 
 
CRITERION 
NUMBER       
 
 Legal Standard 
4. Inclusionary programs for young students are located in a setting that includes 
students with and without disabilities and meet the following standards: 
a. Services in such programs are provided in the home, the public school, Head 
Start, or a licensed childcare setting. 
b. For public school programs that integrate students with and without 
disabilities, the class size does not exceed 20 with 1 teacher and 1 aide and 
no more than 5 students with disabilities.  If the number of students with 
disabilities is 6 or 7 then the class size does not exceed 15 students with 1 
teacher and 1 aide. 
5. Substantially separate programs for young students are located in a public school 
classroom or facility that serves primarily or solely students with disabilities.  
Substantially separate programs adhere to the following standards: 
a. Substantially separate programs are programs in which more than 50% of 
the students have disabilities. 
b. Substantially separate programs operated by the district limit class sizes to 9 
students with 1 teacher and 1 aide.  State Requirements Federal Requirements  603 CMR 28.06(7) 34 CFR 300.101(b); 
300.124(b); 300.323(b)  Rating:  Partially Implemented  District Response Required: Yes 
 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Findings: 
A review of documents and interviews indicated that five instructional groupings in the preschool 
program do not meet the following requirements for appropriate student-to-staff ratios and class 
sizes: 
 Substantially separate programs: Substantially separate programs are programs in which 
more than 50% of the students have disabilities. Substantially separate programs operated by 
the district limit class sizes to 9 students with 1 teacher and 1 aide.  
 
Specifically, in each of the five groupings, more than 50% of the students have disabilities and the 
total class size is more than nine students. 
 
 
===PAGE 13===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 13 of 17 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CIVIL RIGHTS  
METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION (CR)  
AND  
OTHER RELATED GENERAL EDUCATION 
REQUIREMENTS  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS,  
COMPLIANCE RATINGS AND  
FINDINGS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 14===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 14 of 17 
 
CRITERION 
NUMBER       
 
 Legal Standard 
CR 13 Availability of information and academic counseling on general curricular and 
occupational/vocational opportunities 
Students in grades 7-12 all receive the same information and academic counseling on 
the full range of general curricular opportunities and any occupational/vocational 
opportunities available to them. 
 
Race, color, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, or sexual orientation are 
not presented as limiting factors in career determination. 
 
The district ensures that English learners are taught to the same academic standards 
and curriculum as all students and provides the same opportunities to master such 
standards as other students, including the opportunity to enter academically 
advanced classes, receive credit for work done, and have access to the full range of 
programs. 
 
The district uses grade appropriate content objectives for English learners that are 
based on the district curricula in English language arts, history and social science, 
mathematics, and science and technology/engineering, taught by qualified staff 
members. 
 Title VI: 42 U.S.C. 2000d; 34 CFR 100.3(a), (b); Title IX: 20 U.S.C. 1681; 34 CFR 
106.31, 106.36; Section 504: 29 U.S.C. 794; 34 CFR 104.4, 104.37(b); Title II: 42 
U.S.C. 12132; 28 CFR 35.130; NCLB: Title III, Part A, Sec. 3121(c)(1)(C); Title X, 
Part C, Sec. 721; Mass. Const. amend. art. 114; M.G.L. c. 71A, s. 7; c. 76, s. 5; 603 
CMR 26.03  
Rating: 
Prior Noncompliance 
Corrective Action Under 
Review 
 
District Response Required: No 
 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Comments: 
During the 2024-2025 monitoring review conducted by the Office of Language Acquisition (OLA), it 
was determined that the district does not consistently ensure that English Learners (ELs) are taught to 
the same academic standards and curriculum as all students. OLA issued an ELE 5 Program 
Placement and Structure finding in January 2025 indicating, in part, that ELs do not always have 
equitable access to grade-level content instruction. Specifically, ELs are directed into courses 
according to their language proficiency, rather than courses appropriate for their grade level. 
 
Corrective action for the ELE 5 finding will be reviewed and approved by OLA through the district's 
Continuous Improvement and Monitoring Plan (CIMP). 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 15===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 15 of 17 
 
CRITERION 
NUMBER 
CIVIL RIGHTS METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION (CR) 
AND OTHER RELATED GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 
VI. FACULTY, STAFF AND ADMINISTRATION  
 Legal Standard 
CR 18 Responsibilities of the school principal 
1. Instructional support.  The principal in each of the district's schools promotes 
instructional practices responsive to student needs and ensures that adequate 
instructional support is available within the general education program for 
students and teachers.  Instructional support includes remedial instruction for 
students, consultative services for teachers, availability of reading instruction at 
the elementary level, appropriate services for linguistic minority students, and 
other services consistent with effective educational practices and the 
requirements of M.G.L. c. 71B, §2.  The principal consults with the 
administrator of special education regarding accommodations and interventions 
for students.  Such efforts and their results are documented and placed in the 
student record.  Additionally, when an individual student is referred for an 
evaluation to determine eligibility for special education, the principal ensures 
that documentation on the use of instructional support services for the student is 
provided as part of the evaluation information reviewed by the Team when 
determining eligibility.  The school district does not limit a parent's right to refer 
a student for timely special education evaluation because the district has not 
fully explored and/or attempted some or all of the available instructional support 
programs or other interventions available in general education that may be 
described in the district's curriculum accommodation plan, including any pre-
referral program. 
2. Curriculum Accommodation Plan.  The principal implements a curriculum 
accommodation plan developed by the district's general education program to 
ensure that all efforts have been made to meet the needs of diverse learners in the 
general education program.  The plan assists the regular classroom teacher in 
analyzing and accommodating diverse learning styles of all children in the 
regular classroom and in providing appropriate services and support within the 
general education program including, but not limited to, direct and systematic 
instruction in reading and provision of services to address the needs of children 
whose behavior may interfere with learning.  The plan includes provisions 
encouraging teacher mentoring and collaboration and parental involvement.  
(The plan may be part of a multi-year strategic plan.) 
3. Early Literacy Screening. Effective July 31, 2023, each school district shall at 
least twice per year assess each student's reading ability and progress in literacy 
skills, from kindergarten through at least third grade, using a valid, 
developmentally appropriate screening instrument approved by the Department. 
Consistent with section 2 of chapter 71B of the general laws and the 
Department's dyslexia and literacy guidelines, if such screenings determine that a 
student is significantly below relevant benchmarks for age-typical development 
in specific literacy skills, the school shall determine which actions within the 
general education program will meet the student's needs, including differentiated 
or supplementary evidence-based reading instruction and ongoing monitoring of 
progress. Within 30 school days of a screening result that is significantly below 
the relevant benchmarks, the school shall inform the student's parent or guardian 
of the screening results and the school's response and shall offer them the 
===PAGE 16===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 16 of 17 
 
CRITERION 
NUMBER 
CIVIL RIGHTS METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION (CR) 
AND OTHER RELATED GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 
VI. FACULTY, STAFF AND ADMINISTRATION  
 Legal Standard 
opportunity for a follow-up discussion. 
4. Coordination with special education.  The principal, with the assistance of the 
administrator of special education, coordinates the delivery and supervision of 
special education services within each school building. 
5. Educational services in home or hospital.  Upon receipt of a physician's written 
order verifying that any student enrolled in a public school or placed by the 
public school in a private setting must remain at home or in a hospital on a day 
or overnight basis, or any combination of both, for medical reasons and for a 
period of not less than fourteen school days in any school year, the principal 
arranges for provision of educational services in the home or hospital.  Such 
services are provided with sufficient frequency to allow the student to continue 
his or her educational program, as long as such services do not interfere with the 
medical needs of the student. The principal coordinates such services with the 
Administrator for Special Education for eligible students. Such educational 
services are not considered special education unless the student has been 
determined eligible for such services, and the services include services on the 
student's IEP. 
 M.G.L. c. 71, § 38Q 1/2; 603 CMR 28.03(3); 603 CMR 28.03(1)(f)  
Rating: 
Prior Noncompliance 
Corrective Action Under 
Review 
 
District Response Required: No 
 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Comments: 
During the 2024-2025 monitoring review conducted by the Office of Language Acquisition (OLA), it 
was determined that the district does not consistently ensure appropriate services for linguistic 
minority students. OLA issued an ELE 5 Program Placement and Structure finding in January 2025 
indicating, in part, that the district does not consistently support an English as a Second Language 
(ESL) curriculum across all grade levels and lacks the capacity to support essential elements of 
Sheltered English Immersion (SEI) instruction. 
 
Furthermore, OLA found that when students are scheduled to receive ESL instruction through a push-
in model, the ESL teacher often assists the content teacher in teaching content standards but does not 
provide explicit ESL instruction.  
 
Corrective action for the ELE 5 finding will be reviewed and approved by OLA through the district's 
Continuous Improvement and Monitoring Plan (CIMP). 
 
 
===PAGE 17===
Template Version 250331 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education – Office of Public School Monitoring 
Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report – May 30, 2025 
Page 17 of 17 
 
 
This Integrated Monitoring Review Report is also available at: 
https://www.doe.mass.edu/psm/tfm/reports/. 
Profile information supplied by each charter school and school district, including information for 
individual schools within districts, is available at  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/. 
 
 
WBMS IMR Report 
File Name: Lunenburg Public Schools Integrated Monitoring Review Report 
Last Revised on:  05/30/2025 
Prepared by: ABK/CS/AP 
 
   