===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND NON-INSTRUCTIONAL OPERATIONS              3000  
TRANSPORTATION                                                                                           3600  
TRANSPORTATION: BUS FEE POLICY                                                                   3601.1 
As an austerity measure, the Lunenburg School Committee imposes a temporary fee on busing.  
This fee shall be reviewed by the School Committee no less than once every year as part of the 
annual budget process to ensure that it is still necessary. 
This policy shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with all applicable provisions of 
Massachusetts General Laws and Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
regulations and guidance. 
Students using district-contracted buses shall pay a fee of $180 per year per student.  
Individuals with reduced lunch status shall pay $50 per year per student.  Individuals with free 
lunch status shall not pay the transportation fee.  Families with more than one child using 
district-contracted buses shall pay $270 while reduced lunch status families shall pay $75.  
Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 71, Section 68, students in 6th grade or lower who reside more than 
two miles from the school they are entitled to attend, as measured portal to portal over a 
commonly traveled route (sidewalks or public ways), shall be entitled to district-provided 
transportation at no charge as defined by state statute and regulation. 
Pursuant to state statute, students in 6th grade or lower living more than 2 geodesic (as the 
crow flies) miles from the school they are entitled to attend are entitled to busing at no charge.  
Individuals may seek a waiver of the fee. The waiver must be in writing.  Waivers shall be 
reviewed by the Superintendent or their designee.  That individual shall have sole discretion in 
granting such a waiver.   
If a waiver is denied, the party seeking the waiver shall have the right to appeal the 
determination to the full school committee. Applications for appeal shall be in writing.  
Determinations of appeal shall be in writing and issued without the need for a hearing. In order 
to prevail on an appeal, the party seeking a waiver must prove there was a material error in the 
determination by the Superintendent or their designee. Determinations of the school committee 
shall be final.   
Payment shall be due upon registration for busing. Failure to pay the fee in advance will result in 
children being denied transport to school. The list bus drivers are given at the start of the year 
shall reflect payment. 