===PAGE 1===
The Lunenburg  Historical  Society, Inc. 
      Incorporated April 28, 1959 as a 501(C)(3) Charity    
10 School Street 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-1344 
 
President:  Patrick J. Slattery  
Vice -Pres:  Eileen R. O’Brien  
Secretary:  Anne L. Nelson  
Treasurer:  Maria Cole  
Curator:     William E. Tyler  
Director:    Charles Venezia  
Director:    C. William Lakso                                                           Bigelow Farm painting circa 18 60  
 
 
 
Sandra Sheehy 
Guidance Office Secretary/ Registrar 
Lunenburg High School 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Ms. Sheehy: 
                                                                                                                          October 14, 2025 
Scholarship Description 
 
James J. Larkin was a resident of Lunenburg and a longtime Curator of The Lunenburg Historical 
Society, Inc. He was a skilled researcher of Lunenburg history and made significant contributions 
to the Society archives.  After his passing, donations were accepted in his name, and  the Society 
has decided to establish the James J. Larkin Memorial Scholarship in his honor. Through this 
scholarship, we will offer support to one graduating senior per year from Lunenburg High School 
who demonstrates interest and aptitude in the study of history or other social sciences. 
 
In order to apply, you must currently be a senior at Lunenburg High School and plan to study 
history or another social science in college. Preference will be given to those who have taken one 
or more History/ Social Science AP courses (e.g. AP US History, AP Government and Politics). 
Along with the Community Scholarship Application, we ask that you include an essay of 250-500 
words, describing one research question you intend to address in your college studies, as well as  
any experiences you have had learning about history or social studies that convinced you to pursue 
a degree in that area. 
 
The Board of Directors of The Lunenburg Historical Society, Inc. will review the application 
materials and select one winner to rece ive the sum of $500.00, which will be presented at 
graduation this coming spring. We anticipate offering this scholarship for the next 10 years, in the 
amount of $250.00. This scholarship is classified as a gift, and it will be expended and approved 
by the School Committee. 
 
Regards 
 
The Lunenburg Historical Society Board of Directors 