===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION 5000 
INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 5200 
COMPETENCY DETERMINATION                                                                   5204.01 
 
Lunenburg Competency Determination  
 
In order to receive a Lunenburg diploma, all students must meet the competency determination 
(CD) for coursework, in addition to all local graduation requirements.  
 
The CD represents two accomplishments:  
 showing a mastery of skills in English language arts, mathematics, science and 
(beginning with the graduating class of 2027) US History. Lunenburg students will do 
this by satisfactorily  completing a final assessment or a capstone or portfolio project; 
and  
 the satisfactory completion of relevant coursework aligned to the standards 
measured by the high school English language arts, mathematics, and science MCAS 
assessments administered in 2023. Lunenburg students will take and pass (earn full 
credit for) the following courses: 
 English 9 
 English 10 
 Algebra I or Algebra II 
 Geometry 
 Biology 
 US History (beginning with the graduating class of 2027)  
As per the CD law, tenth grade standards represent a critical benchmark in students’ academic 
development, ensuring they possess the foundational skills and knowledge necessary to succeed 
in upper-level high school courses, post-secondary education, and the workforce. 
Students who do not meet the required accomplishments may enroll in approved summer 
school courses, credit recovery programs and/or complete an Educational Proficiency Plan 
(EPP), which includes additional coursework and assessments to ensure they reach the 
necessary competency levels for the CD. Meeting these requirements, alongside earning 
sufficient course credits, is essential for graduation. 
 
Considerations for students with disabilities and English learners 
 
Students with Disabilities: Lunenburg Public Schools (LPS) ensures that all students with 
disabilities—including those placed in out-of-district day or residential programs—have equal 
opportunity to meet Massachusetts Competency Determination (CD) and local graduation 
requirements. 
For in-district students, the IEP Team annually reviews CD progress beginning no later than 
age 14. Students receive: 
 Specialized instruction aligned to state standards 
 MCAS/MCAS-Alt participation with accommodations as needed 
 Assistive technology and individualized supports 
 Transition planning and services starting at age 14 
===PAGE 2===
 Alternate ways to demonstrate competency, when appropriate 
For out-of-district students, LPS: 
 Leads annual IEP reviews with the OOD provider 
 Confirms curriculum alignment to state standards 
 Monitors progress toward CD and local requirements 
 Retains sole authority to award the CD and diploma 
 Ensures MCAS/MCAS-Alt access and accommodations 
IEPs document the projected graduation date and completion pathway. In rare cases, services 
may continue beyond meeting graduation requirements if FAPE has not yet been provided. LPS 
uses the IEP process to support timely, appropriate graduation decisions while ensuring 
compliance and equity for all learners. 
English Learners: For each course required in the completion of coursework and mastery of 
skills, the standards measured by the high school English language arts, mathematics, and 
science MCAS assessments administered in 2023 have been outlined along with US History. 
English learners’ student work is aligned with the standards and is assessed at their WIDA level. 
Opportunities are provided for multiple means of expression (leaning). The District has 
available a list of accommodations/strategies for teachers working with English learners. 
 
Considerations for late-enrolling students 
Transfer students to Lunenburg who enter after 9th grade will undergo a transcript review by 
the principal (or designee) to determine whether the coursework from the sending school(s) can 
be applied to the competency determination. If the review determines that the student has not 
met the competency determination, alternatives will be offered to provide an opportunity for the 
student to meet this requirement. Alternatives may include summer school, online coursework, 
mastery performance exams, or other alternatives deemed suitable by the Principal or designee. 
Such alternatives may require additional time outside the school day/year.  The Superintendent 
shall be the arbiter for all final decisions. 
 
Role of MCAS in Limited Circumstances 
In the limited circumstance when we are unable to document a student’s prior coursework (from 
either contact with the prior school or from information provided by the student and/or 
parents/guardians), we will allow  for a student to earn the CD by: 
  Attainment of  a qualifying score of at least “Meeting Expectations” or “Exceeding 
Expectations” achievement levels on the relevant high school MCAS assessment;  
or 
 Student work that satisfies the same academic standard. 
 
Process for a student to appeal District’s decision to award or deny a CD 
If a student is dissatisfied with the District's decision to award or deny a CD, the following 
appeals process should take place: 
 An appeal in writing will be addressed and sent to the High School Principal; 
 Within 10 school days, and after a transcript review and/or other components and 
consultation with Central Office Administration, the Principal will respond in writing, 
and in a language the student can understand, the rationale for the decision; 
 The Principal may also request a meeting with the student and parents/guardians; 
 The Superintendent shall be the arbiter for all final decisions. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Process for a current or former student to request a transcript review 
Eligible students in the classes of 2003 through 2024 who did not earn a 
diploma as a result of failing to meet the state’s CD requirement have  an opportunity to request 
a transcript review in order to determine their current eligibility for a diploma pursuant to the 
district’s CD requirements. 
An eligible student is one who: 
1. Was previously enrolled in the district; and 
2. Previously met the criteria for a Certificate of Attainment (i.e., student met local 
graduation requirements but did not receive a high school diploma because they did not 
earn a CD); and 
3. Was not previously reported as a graduate in any district’s Student Information 
Management System (SIMS) submission. 
 
Any eligible student requesting a transcript review should, in writing, contact the High School 
Principal. High School Department Leaders, along with the Principal shall determine if the 
transcript review meets the new CD requirements. Decisions will be communicated to the 
eligible student within 8 weeks of initial contact. The Superintendent shall be the arbiter for all 
final decisions. 
 
Any student who has not previously met the criteria for a Certificate of Attainment (indicating 
that they did not meet all local graduation requirements when they exited high school) must 
meet the district’s current CD requirements and local graduation requirements in order to 
earn a diploma. 
 
This requirement does not apply to students who have earned the competency determination 
prior to January 2025. 
 