===PAGE 1===
STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTION                                                                     5000 
 
INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM                                                                         5200 
 
ORGANIZATION OF INSTRUCTION                                                          5201 
 
MIDDLE SCHOOL PATHWAYS                                                                        5201.03 
Middle School Pathway Exploration Policy 
Policy Overview 
The Lunenburg Public School District is committed to ensuring that all middle school 
students and their families are well-informed about the wide range of high school 
educational options available to them, including Career and Technical Education (CTE) 
and vocational programs. In compliance with Massachusetts state regulations (603 
CMR 4.00) and guidance from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
(DESE), this policy outlines how our District provides students with awareness and 
exposure to CTE and vocational opportunities at local, regional, and agricultural public 
high schools. 
High School Pathway options  
 
The following CTE school is available to students: 
 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School 
1050 Westminster St, Fitchburg, MA 01420 
 
This link identifies all of the current (23) vocational programs offered at Montachusett 
Vocational Technical School that may connect to students’ secondary and post-
secondary academic and career planning. 
Career Exploration for Middle School Students 
Lunenburg School District continues to partner with Montachusett Regional Vocational 
Technical School in several ways to ensure that all students have a deep understanding 
of the educational options available to them.  The District provides guidance classes to 
all grade 8 students where career paths and opportunities are discussed. This process 
guides students as they research high school pathways and make informed decisions 
about which school environment, whether a traditional high school or a specialized CTE 
program or vocational program, best aligns with their emerging goals.  
===PAGE 2===
 
The District's implementation of My Career and Academic Plan (MyCAP) starting in 
2026 directly connects the exploration of CTE schools and programs to a student's 
broader academic and career goals. MyCAP is a structured process that helps students 
explore their interests, skills, and values starting in middle school. This self-discovery 
process guides students as they research high school pathways and make informed 
decisions about which school environment, whether a traditional high school or a 
specialized CTE program or vocational program, best aligns with their emerging 
goals. 
Lunenburg Middle School has a healthy and long lasting relationship with Montachusett 
Regional Vocational Technical School. LMS guidance and the admissions counselor 
have consistent, effective communication and offer a variety of activities to introduce 
LMS students to the opportunities that Monty Tech provides. The LMS counselor 
attends an annual meeting at Monty Tech in order to gain any new information 
regarding the admissions process and programs offered. The LMS counselor is then able 
to relay this information to LMS students and parents. Information is sent out through 
the LMHS principal’s weekly email.  
Grade 8 students attend Monty Tech Tour Day in the early fall. Tour Day is coordinated 
by LMS Guidance Counselor and the Monty Tech Admissions Counselor. Tour Day takes 
place during school hours and Monty Tech provides busing to and from LMS. On tour 
day students learn important information about the school and are able to see a number 
of vocational opportunities that are offered. The tour is made available to all 8th grade 
students interested. Students are also made aware of when Monty Tech is holding their 
open house and this is another opportunity for students to tour the school. 
Monty Tech sends a representative twice annually to LMS during lunch for both 7th and 
8th grade students and provides LMS students with information on the school and the 
application process.  
LMS students are provided the opportunity to participate in the Vocational Interest 
Program (VIP). VIP is a four week after school program where students are provided 
transportation by Monty Tech and have the opportunity to try out four separate 
vocational shops over a period of several weeks.  
The following information outlines how Lunenburg Middle School will actively 
collaborate with Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School in order to inform 
students about the CTE/Vocational opportunities available to them.   
Information Sharing  
===PAGE 3===
Annually, Lunenburg will provide Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School 
with the names, addresses, and email addresses of all enrolled grade six, seventh, and 
eight students as required by law. 
 
On-Campus Assemblies 
Each fall, all grade 8 students will have the opportunity to attend assemblies on-campus 
at the middle school and hosted by Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School. 
These events will provide students with information about CTE programs and the 
application process. 
 
School Tours 
Each fall, interested grade eight students will have the opportunity to tour Montachusett 
Regional Vocational Technical School. Transportation expenses will be covered by 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School. These tours will be scheduled 
during the school day and will be considered an excused absence provided Montachusett 
Regional Vocational Technical School confirms the student’s participation in a tour. 
 
Online Resources 
By October 15th each year, Lunenburg’s District website will publish pertinent 
information about vocational school options, including links to admission applications, 
admissions policies, and open house/informational events and assembly schedules. 
 
Providing Admissions Records to Montachusett Regional Vocational 
Technical School  
 
Lunenburg Middle School will provide relevant information to Montachusett Regional 
Vocational Technical School for students who have applied. This may include 
documentation of student attendance records and discipline records in accordance with 
the vocational school's approved admissions policy and DESE guidance. 
 
Maintenance of Records 
Lunenburg Middle High School will maintain a record of all on-site presentations, 
assemblies, and student tours to Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School, 
along with other relevant information about collaboration between the District and 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School. These records will be made 
available to DESE upon request. 
 
 