===PAGE 1===
1 of 3 
 
 
Lunenburg High School 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Phone: (978) 582-4115                         Facsimile: (978) 582-4153 
 
 
TIMOTHY SANTRY                KARMA TOUSIGNANT   
LMHS Principal                                                                 Assistant Principal 
 
YANINA BURNS 
Assistant Principal / Athletic Director  
                  
 
 
 
September 28, 2025  
 
  
Dear William Tyler: 
 
Thank you for your inquiry about establishing a new scholarship fund for graduating seniors from 
Lunenburg High School. Please see below for information regarding an overview of this process.  
 
The process for starting a scholarship at Lunenburg High School begins with the fund being accepted by 
the Lunenburg School Committee or the Lunenburg Select Board, depending on the financial terms that 
you outline for the scholarship. Once the fund has been approved and established, Lunenburg High 
School will be able to award the scholarship to graduating seniors. Community and Athletic 
Scholarships are presented to graduating seniors annually during a ceremony in early June. Our 
scholarships celebrate a variety of academic achievements, athletic accomplishments, and future plans. 
Lunenburg High School typically begins coordinating the scholarships that will be awarded each cycle 
in December of the school year.  
 
Lunenburg High School Community Scholarships are managed by the Guidance Department and 
Athletics Department. As the creator of a scholarship, you have control over the terms of the scholarship 
and your annual involvement in its operation. We have scholarships that are run in a variety of ways, 
and we will honor the manner in which you would like your scholarship to operate.  
 
The majority of our scholarships are awarded through a general application that students complete. 
Students fill out this one application and are eligible for a variety of scholarships. However, other 
scholarships have created their own, personalized applications that are used during this process. It is 
your decision whether or not you would like your scholarship to be included within the general 
application or if you would like to have a separate application.  
 
You also have jurisdiction over the selection process for determining the annual recipient(s) of this 
scholarship. Many of our scholarship recipients are selected by the LHS Community Scholarship 
Selection Committee, which is composed of teachers, counselors, administrators, and representatives 
from athletics who have strong relationships with LHS students. Other scholarship recipients are 
selected by scholarship donors or other community members. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 of 3 
 
 
 
 
There are two documents that must be submitted to begin the process of establishing a scholarship at 
LHS. The first is a description of the scholarship, and the second is a document of the financial details 
and terms of the scholarship fund. Below is an outline of the contents of these documents.  
 
I. Scholarship Description - Please include any relevant information, including but not limited to: 
a. Information regarding the background of the scholarship and its purpose 
b. Eligibility criteria for students 
c. The application format  
i. Can utilize the General LHS Community Scholarship Application or another application 
format 
d. The intended annual value of the award and the number of recipients each year 
e. How recipients will be selected each year  
i. Can be selected by the LHS Community Scholarship Selection Committee or by other 
parties 
 
II. Financial Document - Please include any relevant financial information, including but not limited 
to: 
a. The starting value of the fund and the anticipated number of years that the scholarship will be 
awarded 
b. A classification of the fund as a trust or a gift 
i. Trust - The fund will be retained for perpetuity. Please indicate how the principal will be 
expended 
ii. Gift - The account will close after the funds are expended 
c. Specifications regarding if the funds are to be expended for Lunenburg High School or the Town 
of Lunenburg in general 
i. If the funds are to be expended for the school, this scholarship will need to be approved 
by the School Committee  
ii. If you select the Town, the Lunenburg Select Board will need to approve it 
 
Below please find two additional contacts for any questions that you may have regarding this financial 
document. They will be able to provide you with more information, should you have any concerns: 
 
1. Myleen Mallari 
Treasurer/Collector, Town of Lunenburg 
(978) 582-4133, mmallari@lunenburgma.gov 
 
2. Christopher McNamara 
Business Manager, Lunenburg Public Schools 
(978) 582-4100 x5225, cmcnamara@lunenburgschools.net   
 
 
If you decide to move forward with the creation of this scholarship, both of these documents can be 
submitted to me. Please mail them to Lunenburg High School (1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, 
MA 01462) to my attention.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 of 3 
 
 
 
Please do not hesitate to reach out if you have any questions or need any assistance as you develop the 
terms of this scholarship. I would be happy to talk more over the phone or set up a time to meet in 
person. My phone number is (978) 582-4115 x1235 and my email is ssheehy@lunenburgschools.net .  
 
Thank you for your interest, I appreciate your dedication to Lunenburg High School students and look 
forward to hearing from you.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sandra Sheehy 
Guidance Office Secretary / Registrar  
Lunenburg High School 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
(978) 582-4115 x1235 
 
 
 
 
 