===PAGE 1===
Healey-Driscoll Administration Announces Public Hearings to Review Statewide K-12 School 
Finance Formula   
  
Five listening sessions will take place across Massachusetts in October and November   
EVERETT — The Healey-Driscoll Administration today announced a series of public listening 
sessions to solicit feedback on the Chapter 70 school finance formula, the primary funding program 
that establishes how Massachusetts distributes education aid to cities and towns. The listening 
sessions are part of a Chapter 70 Local Contribution Study included in the state’s Fiscal Year 2026 
budget and conducted by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) and 
Department of Revenue’s Division of Local Services (DLS).  
“Chapter 70 is the foundation for how we fund our schools. This is an opportunity for the public to 
help shape the future of a system that affects every student in Massachusetts,” said Education 
Secretary Dr. Patrick Tutwiler. “We strongly encourage our educators, families, community leaders 
and stakeholders to attend these sessions and let us know what is working and where we need to 
make changes.”  
“Chapter 70 is a significant contributor to the amount of total funding spent on K-12 public education, 
and we invite the public to contribute to this important review of the local contribution part of the 
formula,” said DESE Commissioner Pedro Martinez. “We want everyone to have an opportunity to 
give their feedback—whether you are an educator, a parent or a community member.”   
“The Division of Local Services looks forward to working with DESE to undertake this mandated 
analysis,” said Sean Cronin, senior deputy commissioner for local services at the Department 
of Revenue.  
These listening sessions will inform the final Chapter 70 Local Contribution Study that examines the 
methods used to determine each municipality’s target local contribution and required local 
contribution toward school funding. The study will also consider the impact of factors such as income 
and property wealth, the effect on municipal services, and the unique challenges of rural and 
regional school districts. The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and DLS expect 
to release the final report in the summer.  
  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Listening session schedule: 
   Thursday, October 23, 2025   
4:30 p.m.–6:30 p.m.  
Masconomet Regional High School, 20 Endicott Road, Boxford  
  
Thursday, October 30, 2025  
4:30 p.m.–6:30 p.m.  
Doherty Memorial High School, 299 Highland St., Worcester  
  
Thursday, November 6, 2025  
4:30 p.m.–6:30 p.m.  
Greenfield High School, 21 Barr Ave., Greenfield  
  
Tuesday, November 18, 2025  
4:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m.  
Virtual public comment hearing  
  
Register online 
  
  
Wednesday, November 19, 2025  
4:30 p.m.–6:30 p.m.  
Apponequet Regional High School, 100 Howland Road, Lakeville  
  
The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and DLS encourage the submission of 
written comments, which can be emailed to C70PublicComment@mass.gov. More information on 
the public comment sessions, Chapter 70 and local contributions is available on DESE’s website.  
 