===PAGE 1===
CARBURG MAST
LIB INCORPORE
Dr. Jodi Fortuna
Superintendent of Schools
Christopher Stevens
Director of Facilities
Lunenburg Public Schools
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all
students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-long
learning so that they may find their own paths to successful
careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.
Christopher McNamara
Business Manager
Dr. Kimberly Sarfde
Director of Teaching & Learning
Julianna Hanscom
Director of Special Services
Facilities and Grounds Report
To: Jodi Fortuna and the Lunenburg School Committee
From: Chris Stevens Director of Facilities and Grounds
Date: 2/3/2026
Capital Projects
Primary weatherization which is the final part of the capital/green communities projects has been completed.
National Grid has come and done all inspections of the BMS system running in conjuncture with the boiler system and
has released their reimbursement check to the town of Lunenburg for the sum of $43,035.00. This marks the final completion
of Capital Projects.
Facilities
Facilities has been working with I.T. to have the BMS system which is located at LMHS on a PC to be moved onto a
server. This PC was nearing end of life and crashing repeatedly. Galaxy Technologies and I.T. will work together to move this
system over. The cost is $3200.00
We have collected pricing for this summer to replace sinks in the boys and girls bathrooms for ADA compliance. The
cost is $26,000.00. We have been looking at the Passios school and believe there is enough hardware there to complete the
bathroom ADA upgrades as needed at a significant cost savings.
All emergency exit sign backup batteries at THES have been replaced.
With all the melting and freezing roof leaks have been happening throughout, between in house and contractors we
have been staying on top of taking care of these issues.
During the cold snap few weeks ago the department had gone around to all buildings closing dampers and putting
boiler systems on manual run to alleviate any frozen pipe issues, we had no issues.
Univent motors and belts have been getting replaced as needed
129 Northfield Rd, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
Phone - 978 582-4100 - Fax - 978 582-4103
===PAGE 2===
Resignations
Dustin Travaglia put in his resignation on Friday February 13t. He enjoyed working for the Lunenburg Public Schools but found
a job closer to his home.
New Hires
Ryan Lizek/LMHS-Replacing John Conway
Open Positions
Full Time Evening Custodian/Primary Elementary
129 Northfield Rd,, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
Phone - 978 582-4100 - Fax - 978 582-4103
