===PAGE 1===
COMMUNITY RELATIONS 1000 
 
GIFTS AND SOLICITATIONS 1300 
 
ADVERTISING, SPONSORSHIP & FUNDRAISING 1303 
 
ADVERTISING IN THE SCHOOLS                                                            1303.1 
 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to quality education and supporting a safe and 
productive environment for learning.  Advertising is intended to distract individuals; therefore, we 
must restrict advertising in the educational environment in order to protect the learners and teachers 
from this distraction.    
 
The Lunenburg Schools will not promote any print, broadcast or electronic media advertising in 
school buildings or on school grounds to the students, with the following exceptions, which must 
be approved by the Superintendent or their      designee: 
 
1. Appropriate advertising may be sold for the school student publications. 
2. Distribution of notices related to activities for school children or for parents of school children 
for school or community non-profit organizations. 
3. Print or electronic media advertisements included as part of standard classroom and library 
periodicals and on web sites used for educational purposes. 
4. In connection with courses of study related to advertising and media literacy training. 
5. Jointly school-sponsored or school-approved parent-teacher activities such as for purposes of 
fundraising. 
 
The distribution of notices or advertisements to students by commercial/for profit organizations in 
school buildings is prohibited. Notice s for such organizations will be permitted at a designated 
location in the school office if such organizations are consistent with School Committee policy 
and with the approval of the Superintendent or their designee. 
 
Surveys, questionnaires, or similar documents, which solicit and collect the personal information 
of students for marketing purposes, are prohibited. 
 
The Superintendent or their designee is empowered to solicit advertisements for 
property, real or otherwise, of the school district. This includes athletic fields, gymnasiums, 
digital property of the school, and any other means of monetizing school district property to 
generate ad revenue for the school. Ads shall not be placed in classrooms, the library, 
administrative offices, or any other area primarily used for instruction (except for gymnasiums). 
The Superintendent or their designee shall set reasonable rates for such advertisement as they 
see fit.   
The following shall be barred from advertising on school property: 1) any entity, for-profit 
or otherwise, barred from advertising by state or federal law or regulation or school policy; and 
2) any entity, for profit or otherwise, that generates income, however derived, from the 
monetization or sale of alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, gambling services, fantasy sports services, 
===PAGE 2===
pornography, or firearms. The Superintendent or their designee shall have final approval over 
the appearance and placement of all advertisements. Their decision about the advertisements, 
their appearance, and their placement are final and made with their sole discretion. 
 The distribution of notices or advertisements by non-District affiliated groups are 
prohibited. Notices are permitted at a designated location in the school office if such 
organizations are consistent with School Committee policy and with the prior approval of the 
Superintendent or their designee. Surveys, questionnaires, or similar documents, which solicit 
and collect the personal information of students or families for marketing purposes, are 
prohibited. 
 
 
 
 
 