===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 4 
 
Richard J. Mathieu 
  
 
Objective 
To obtain a position that will utilize my experiences working in the municipal and education finance fields. Ideally, a 
municipal finance position which will introduce new challenges and lead to professional advancement possibilities. 
Summary 
Educated in the Liberal Arts at a Business school, I have always sought to combine unique experiences that would allow me to 
view and understand opposing viewpoints. This education has aided me in my career in the business world to facilitate 
external customer satisfaction and simultaneously work to improve the internal procedures and policies to eliminate future 
issues. Demonstrated ability to lead and manage projects, working with mini mal supervision to facilitate solutions to issues 
and taking the necessary steps to prevent those issues from re -appearing. Experienced in municipal finance, both for the 
“town” and the “school” aspects of finance, management, supervision of customer relat ions, proficient in the use of computers, 
standard office applications, and a proven ability to learn new technologies.  
With strong organizational skills, ability to prioritize tasks, quickness to learn new concepts, an orientation towards customer 
satisfaction so that the bottom line is positively impacted, and a unique understanding of goals to maximize performance, I 
feel that I would be an asset to any employer. 
Business Experience 
 
Concord Public Schools/Concord-Carlisle Regional Schools  Concord, MA 
Assistant Business Manager  February 2024 - present 
Working as part of a finance team, assisted the business office and Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations in re-
establishing stability after complete turnover of business office staff.  Primary responsibilities include: 
 
 Oversight of payroll processing 
 Annual filings for W2 and ACA 
 Prepare DOR required filings for Regional Schools 
 Prepare DESE End of Year Report 
 Oversee annual audits 
 Assist in budget preparation 
 Grants Management 
 Manage general ledger software (School ERP Pro by Tyler) 
 
The role of Assistant Business Manager calls for ensuring accurate and timely completion of tasks for the business office.  This 
concentrated responsibility also allowed for contemplation of processes, with an eye to improving the flow, accuracy and ease of 
data sharing.  Having a behind-the-scenes role also allowed time to identify a number of potential areas of future exploration.   
Concentrating on improvement while helping with management of the traditional responsibilities of the business office resulted 
in successful meeting of expectations. 
 
Dudley-Charlton Regional School District  Dudley, MA 
Director of Finance and Operations  April 2015 – January 2024 
Working for the Superintendent of Schools, worked as chief financial official for the Dudley-Charlton Regional School District. 
Directly managed the financial affairs for the schools, including managing the $50,000,000 general fund budget, revolving 
funds, health insurance trust fund, grants and student activities and filing of all state and federal reporting. Successfully brought 
forward a $3,000,000 operational override to assist in funding the schools for Fiscal Years 2019 and 2020. Documented various 
policies and procedures to codify practices for the Business Office. Created capital improvement plan for aging District 
infrastructure.   
Managed the food service program through the food service director and oversaw transportation contracts. Ran the Insurance 
Advisory committee, turning an inherited $250,000+ deficit in the Health Insurance Trust Fund into a $3,000,000 surplus. This 
led to a conversation about the creation of a Central Mass. Based Joint Purchase Group for health insurance, ultimately leading 
to the creation of the Mass. Strategic Health Group, along with the Towns of Webster and Dudley for FY2020.  Since then 
membership has bloomed to 15+ members for either active plans, retiree plans or both. 
Designated as chief procurement official for the District. Participated in all union and non-union bargaining sessions with 
Superintendent and School Committee. Managed a staff of 4 in the Business Office, and successfully navigated the transition of 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 4 
 
my predecessor and two other staff members who all retired within 12 months with 70+ years of experience in the District. 
Facilitated conversations with the Budget and Finance Sub Committee to engage in long-term financial planning with member 
communities, creation of fiscal policies and statewide advocacy. Assisted the individual building head custodians to change 
management and procurement practices with an emphasis on efficiency, sharing of resources and use of common products. 
 
Oxford Public Schools  Oxford, MA 
School Business Manager  Aug ’09 – March 2015 
Working for the Superintendent of Schools, worked as chief financial official for the Oxford Public School department. Directly 
managed the financial affairs for the schools, including managing the general fund budget, revolving funds, grants and student 
activities and filing of all state and federal reporting. Responsible for oversight of the food service program through the food 
service director and transportation, both contractual big yellow buses as well as the internal transportation department of the 
schools, which provided transportation for Project COFFEE as well as Special Education students. Served as a member of the 
town’s Insurance Advisory committee. Designated as chief procurement official for the department. Participated in all union 
bargaining sessions with Superintendent and School Committee. Appointed as member then voted as Chairman of the Middle 
School Building Committee. 
In addition to the standard duties of a school business manager over the past few years worked in non-traditional areas to 
enhance my knowledge base of actual school operations (teaching and learning) as a member of the Professional Development 
committee, district-wide data team, and have participated in various DSAC district and area ILN meetings. Last year worked as 
part of central office team to introduce formal schedules at the two elementary schools, and represented the Superintendent on 
the Middle School schedule re-design team. 
Dover/Sherborn Public Schools  Dover, MA 
School Business Manager  Aug ’05 – July ‘09 
Working directly for the Superintendent of Schools, worked as chief financial office for the Dover-Sherborn Regional School 
District, Dover Public Schools and Sherborn Public Schools in charge of all business operations. This includes, but is not limited 
to, overseeing transportation contract and attended issues surrounding school transportation; overseeing facilities and maintenance 
operations, including the completion of one building project (and subsequent MSBA state filings) for the Regional Schools, and 
another in-process project for Sherborn Public Schools; overseeing food service operations, which included making the Regional 
operation profitable for the first time in years. I have been an intimate part of the budget process (three budget processes actually 
which total $32 million); working closely with the Superintendent as a team in reviewing budget submissions from administration, 
presenting recommendations to the School Committees, presenting information to the towns’ respective Finance Committees and 
Boards of Selectmen and the pubic at large. I was responsible for providing monthly financial updates to all three School 
Committees and providing specific reports on Special Education expenses and utilities which I developed. I have worked very 
closely with all Town officials to help facilitate the good relationships between both towns and schools. I am also responsible for 
preparation of state and federal financial reports, including three DOE end of year reports and DOR end of year filing for 
certification of Excess and Deficiency Funds. In my role for the Regional Schools, I am also responsible for insurance issues and 
am a voting member of the West Suburban Health Group, which is a health insurance consortium. I also was asked to assist 
School Committees in their negotiation of new Teachers’ contract. 
Town of Douglas  Douglas, MA 
Town Accountant/ Asst. MIS Director  Mar. ’02 – July 2005 
Certified Governmental Accountant 
Working as Town Accountant with an assistant in the office, responsible for the daily processing of all A/P transactions, weekly 
preparation of warrants, monthly reconciliations with the Collector’s office, the Treasurer’s office, and the School’s business 
office, preparation of the General Ledger and all financial reporting information. Working with the Town’s Executive 
Administrator (or with the Board of Selectmen when there has been no Executive Administrator) I have been intimately involved 
in the preparation for all Annual and Special Town Meetings, particularly the annual operating budget. I am responsible for the 
development of both the revenue and expense budget (FY06 is a $19.5 million budget) – a process that runs from November to 
May/June, and one that requires a full understanding of all departments and their specific needs. I work closely with the Finance 
Committee and Board of Selectmen during their budget work, and attend all budget related meetings. I am responsible for filing of 
state reports such as Schedule A and the End of Year reports (including certification of “Free Cash”). I have worked closely with 
the School Department in the filing of the End of Year report. The Town is currently in the process of implementing the MUNIS 
Financial Management software package, and I have acted as project manager for the Town and School. 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 4 
 
Working as Assistant MIS Director, I have been responsible for the daily troubleshooting of all MIS related issues in the 
Town, ensuring the continuing function of the Town’s WAN, and its five outlying buildings. Have successfully managed the 
introduction the Town’s website, and have continued with gradual improvements. 
Access Municipal Systems/ADMINS, Inc. Cambridge, MA 
Director of Municipal Operations Feb.’98- Mar.’02 
Acting as a project manager for a municipal software company, I was responsible for the entire installation process from Scope 
of Service through Final Acceptance. This included obtaining and documenting all customer needs, ensuring that limited 
company resources were maximized to meet scheduled delivery dates, installing software, training, project documentation, 
holding scheduled project status meetings both external and internal, testing and installing customized code and procedures as 
well as limited development. Additionally, was responsible for on-going customer support, and as a result performed QA testing 
on the product to enhance and improve functionality. Helped to solidify customer base through use of project management 
techniques in support. Aided in the establishment of procedures to ensure code consistency for all customers, to facilitate ease of 
support. Completed projects within budget and established time frames by stressing and monitoring deliverable dates for both 
customer and company. In addition to learning project management skills, I am experienced in OpenVMS system management, 
Admins, a 4GL relational database language, TCP/IP networking and basic support of PC’s. 
Since the merger of Access and Admins, was promoted to Director of Municipal Operations, responsible for oversight of a staff 
of 7, customer support and new product development. In the year in this position, have succeeded in solidifying the municipal 
division, addressing customer issues, and supervised creation of a new municipal financial management systems. 
  
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 4 
 
Education 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO CAIRO, EGYPT 
YEAR ABROAD (Middle East Studies/Language Studies)  May 1992 
BENTLEY COLLEGE WALTHAM, MA 
B.A. LIBERAL ARTS May 1992 Concentration in Government 
 
 
Licenses, Certifications and Professional Contributions 
 
 Certified Governmental Accountant – Mass Municipal Auditors and Accountants Assoc. 
 DESE licensed School Business Administrator – Professional 
 DESE licensed Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent – Initial 
 Mass. Certified Public Procurement Officer 
 President, Mass Municipal Auditors and Accountants Assoc. (2026-27) 
 Chair, Legislative Committee, Mass Municipal Auditors and Accountants Assoc. (2025-
current) 
 Member, Legislative Committee, Mass Municipal Auditors and Accountants Assoc. 
(2008-current) 
 Member, Legislative Committee, MASBO (2025-current) 
 MASC/MASS/MASBO Fall Conference 2024 – Panelist 
 
 
 
 