===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Lunenburg School District 
Superintendent Screening Committee 
 
 
 
Brian Lehtinen, School Committee Rep, Chair 
Carol Archambault, School Committee Rep, Vice Chair 
 
Alicia Mallon, MASC Field Director 
 
 
Screening Committee Members 
Caesar Nuzzolo 
TJ Loughlin 
Sarah Wright 
Mary Foyle 
Brad McNamara 
Jane Hall 
Kristen Ryan 
Mandy Gilman 
Carla Squier 
Liz Petersen 
 
Meeting Notice 
Tuesday, March 25th, 2025 
5:00PM Lunenburg Middle 
High School LHS 
Collaboration Room 
 
 
The minutes lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those 
reasonably anticipated. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items 
listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 5:07pm by Mr. Lehtinen, 
seconded by Ms. Archambault.  
2. Public Comment-no public comment was presented. 
3. Future Meeting Schedule-Ms. Mallon from  MASC discussed several options, 
decision was made by committee to meet on Thursday, March 27th, Friday, March 
28th for interviews and Monday, March 31st for deliberation of candidates. This 
schedule was decided in order for original committee members to attend all 
evenings.   
4. Review interview questions with MASC Field Director-Ms. Mallon indicated that 
each interview would take approximately 70 minutes (3 minutes per question). 
There is typically 15-18 questions per candidate.  Committee was tasked with 
reviewing each section of questions and choosing or revising questions as 
appropriate to narrow down the number of questions asked. 
 
5. Voted to enter into Executive session at 6:28pm by Mr. Lehtinen, seconded 
by Ms. Archambault, Under Purpose 8, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8), for the 
screening committee to consider or interview applicants for employment or 
===PAGE 2===
appointment. The committee will not return to public session. 
 
Roll call: Mandy-Yes, Kristen-Yes, TJ-Yes, Caesar-Yes, Carla-Yes, Jane-Yes, 
Mary-Yes, Sarah-Yes, Brad-Yes, Liz-Yes, Carol-Yes, Brian-Yes 
 