===PAGE 70===
70 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
Septic System Plan Applications…………………………54 
  Detailed plans created by engineers hired by residents proposing to 
build or upgrade a septic system are received, filed, and routed to the 
Nashoba sanitarian for review.  
                             Septic System Plan Reviews .........................……..49 
 Engineered plans are reviewed according to state code, 
Title V, and local Board of Health regulations and review forms are 
created and sent to engineer for revision.  Subsequent re-submittals 
by the engineer are also reviewed. 
 Septic System Permit Applications (new lots)..........….19 
 Septic System Permit Applications (upgrades)............ 24 
 Applicants‟ approved plan submittals and Board of Health 
requirements are incorporated into a permit to construct the septic system. 
  Septic System Construction Inspections...........103 
  Nashoba Sanitarian is called to construction site at various 
phases of construction to witness & verify that system is built 
according to plans. 
  Septic System Consultations...............................33 
  During all phases of application, design, and construction 
the Nashoba Sanitarian is called upon for legal details and 
interpretation. 
 Well Permits.......................................................................22 
 Water Quality/Well Consultations..................................46 
  Private wells are regulated solely by local Board of Health 
regulations, The Nashoba Sanitarian assist the Board of Health by 
reviewing well plans, securing well water samples, and interpreting water 
quality test results. 
 Rabies Clinics - Animals Immunized .........................................6 
 Nashoba arranges for local clinics with cooperating veterinarians, 
arranging for dates and location, placing ads in local newspapers, and 
sending home flyers through local schools.   
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice 
            Home Health 
            Nursing Visits............................................................. 651 
 Nashoba‟s Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visits provide skilled 
services to patients in their home under physician‟s orders.  These services 
include assessment of physical, psychological, and nutritional needs. Skills 
include teaching/supervision of medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV 
therapy on a 24 hour basis, catheter care, case management and referral to 
other services as needed. 
===PAGE 71===
71 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
            Home Health Aide Visits  ......................................... 153 
 Nashoba‟s Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities of 
daily living including bathing dressing, exercises and meal preparation. 
 
            Rehabilitative Therapy Visit .................................... 427 
 Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, o ccupational, speech, and dietary 
therapeutic interventions through assessment, treatment and education.  Their 
integration of client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at attaining maximum 
functional dependence. 
 
Medical Social Service Visits ....................................23 
             Nashoba Social Workers provide short-term assistance to patients at home   
             for counseling and referral to community resources. 
 
  Hospice Volunteer and Spiritual Care Visits……17 
Nashoba‟s Volunteers and Clergy provide patients with emoti onal and 
spiritual support, companionship and guidance. 
 
 Clinics 
  
 Local Well Adult, Support Groups, & Other Clinic 
 Visits .............................................................. 261 
Visits include well adult clinics, and immunization, cholesterol exercise, 
mental health and bereavement clinics.   
    
             Number of patients that attended  
Flu Clinics held in Lunenburg………………138 
 
Number of patients whom attended Well 
Adult Clinics from Lunenburg  .................. 119 
  
Communicable Disease 
 
  Communicable Disease Reporting & Control 
   Nashoba‟s Nursing Service & Environmental Health Department work together to   
meet the local Board of Health‟s responsibilities under the law to do the following: 
 
 Investigate and control the spread of communicable diseases within 
Lunenburg (MGL Chap111, Sec 6, 7, and 92-116).  Nashoba works 
with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH) in  
===PAGE 72===
72 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
this area. 
 Receive and process reports from physicians concerning 
cases of diseases “dangerous to the public health” as 
defined by MDPH (MGL Chap111, Sec6) 
 Notify MDPH Division of Epidemiology and 
Immunization within 24 hours of receiving notice of any 
case “dangerous to the public health”.  
 Receive reports and undertake follow -up as necessary 
regarding certain food borne and waterborne diseases an d 
diseases being monitored by the MDPH. 
 Receives reports, investigates and conducts follow-up on 
all incidences involving positive rabies results. 
  
Number of Communicable Disease cases  
 Investigated ..................................................................55 
 Confirmed ....................................................................23 
      
Communicable Disease Number of Cases 
 
 Anaplasmosis ......................................1 
 Encephalitis .........................................1 
 Enterococcus .......................................2 
 Giardia ................................................1 
 Hepatitis C ..........................................3 
 Influenza .............................................7 
 Lyme Disease .....................................4 
 Norovirus ............................................1 
 Strep Pneumonia .................................1 
 Strep B ................................................1 
 Salmonella ..........................................1 
Health Promotion 
 Nursing Visits ..............................................................43  
 Rehabilitation Visits ....................................................1  
 Medical Social Services ...............................................1 
===PAGE 73===
73 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
Dental Health Department 
 
  Examination, Cleaning & Fluoride - Grades K, 2 & 4 
Nashoba‟s Registered Dental Hygienists, operating out of the school nurse‟s 
office and records, provide these services to those children whose parents 
have given written consent. 
 
  Students Eligible.............................................. 479 
   Students Participating....................................220 
  Referred to Dentist.............................................17 
 
  Instruction - Grades K, 1 & 5 
Nashoba‟s Registered Dental Hygienists also provide classroom instruction 
of cleaning and maintaining health teeth to all children in these grades. 
 
  Number of Programs......................................10
===PAGE 74===
74 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are 
dedicated to providing the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to 
the citizens of the Town of Lunenburg. 
In 2014 the Fire Department responded to 1957 calls for service as follows:  
 
Fires & Hazardous Conditions                 521                Emergency Medical      914 
 
Inspections                  458                  Other                             64 
 
Fire Department staffing today is five career staff and forty- forty-five on call firefighters and 
emergency medical technicians.  The station is staffed Monday through Friday from 6 a.m. - 6 p.m.  
However, on weeknights and weekends all of our personnel respond from home on an “on call” basis.   
This adds several minutes or more to our response time as personnel must respond to the station, pick up 
the appropriate equipment and then respond to the call.  This staffing model has not seen a substantial 
change in over 30 years, even though we have experienced a nearly 400% increase in calls for service 
during that period.  While we have added four additional full time personnel in that time to bolster our 
day time response, it has only resulted in a 12% increase in the time the station is manned.  We still rely 
on our on call personnel to be the primary responders 64% of the week.   
 
2014 was our busiest year to date, and given the growth occurring in town , I can only anticipate 
further increases in service requests.   Whi le the commitment shown by our call f orce is nothing short of 
amazing, the ever increasing call volume is straining our ability to pro vide the high level of service 
townspeople have come to expect.  These factors lead me to continue to ca ll for 24 hour staffing in the 
station.  Sufficient funding to maintain two Firefighter/EMT‟ s in the  station 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week would allow either the first ambulance or first piece of fire apparatus to respond immediately.  Not 
only would this reduce our response times to critical emergencies, it would also red uce the “wear and 
tear” on our call staff.   This coverage would in no way reduce the need for our on call personnel; it would 
only supplement their response and reduce response times. 
  
Our firefighters continue to train for the myriad of situations which can be encountered even in a 
town such as ours.  Today‟s firefighte r must be skilled in not only firefighting, but medical care, 
hazardous materials mitigation and technical rescue.  Our EMT‟s must continue to stay abreast of the 
latest treatment protocols and advances in lifesaving skills.  Personnel tr ain regularly both here at the 
station and at classes sponsored by other agencies.  While they are compensated for some of the training, 
the vast majority is done on their own time.  To give an example, a new Firefighter/EMT must attend over 
340 hours of basic firefighting and emergency medical t echnician training.  Once they are certif ied they 
must complete over 40 hours of continuing education and refresher training every two years, jus t for their 
EMT.  Ope rators of fire a pparatus must complete an additional 65 hours of training in pump and aerial 
operations, hydraulics calculations and vehicle operation.   
 
Several of our personnel are members of Regional Technical Rescue units, providing servic es for 
Confined Space and Cave i n Rescue, as well as Underwater Search and Recovery.  They stand ready to 
respond as needed throughout Northern Worcester County. 
 
2014 continued to be an active year for our fire prevention efforts.   By law we are required to 
inspect smoke and carbon monoxide d Personnel also continue to provide fire safety education to not only 
children in our schools but adults as well.    Other fire safety initiatives undertaken during 2014 include: 
===PAGE 75===
75 
- Implementation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $4,900 to assist with 
fire safety e ducation in both the schools and with senior c itizens.  This program, known as 
SAFE and Senior SAFE was renewed in late 2014 with an additional $7,200 in grant funding. 
- Participation in the senior c enter‟s “Sand for Seniors” Program.  This program provides 
buckets of walkway sand for senior c itizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in 
the winter months.  In partnership with this program, our Fire Prevention Officer Captain 
James Ricci would deliver the sand to the residents and when possible, inspect thei r homes 
for smoke and carbon monoxide d etectors.  If the resident was lacking detectors, Capt. Ricci 
would install free detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant.   Capt. Ri cci has 
installed well over 50 smoke and carbon monoxide d etectors for our s eniors since the 
inception of this program. 
- Lieutenant Mark Bursch completed the Fire Academy‟s “Public Life Safety Educator” 
Program.  This provides us another certified educator to provide fire and life safety 
educational programs to the public. 
 
Several members are also Certified First Aid and CPR Instructors and provide training to both 
citizens and town employees.   
 
Our d epartment continues to actively pursue grant f unding opportunities as they occur, though 
those opportunities are becoming scarcer. 
 
The new ambulance funded under the FY ‟14 Capital Plan was received in late June and placed in 
service as Rescue 1.  The unit has seen steady service since then and will service the community for many 
years to come.  The former Rescue 1 (2008 vintage) was re-designated Rescue 2 and serves as our back -
up ambulance.  The 2004 vintage unit was traded in. 
The replacement for Engine 1 approved in the FY ‟15 Capital Plan has been ordered and is 
expected to arrive in May 2015.  This new unit will become our “first due” engine and will replace a 1991 
model. 
Apparatus replacement continues to be a concern.  FY‟15 has seen a significant increase in 
vehicle maintenance costs, particularly with the older apparatus.  The replacements of the above units will 
hopefully decrease some of our vehicle maintenance costs.  However, two of our front line units (Engine  
4 and Ladder 1) are over 20 years old and showing their age through increasing maintenance costs and 
“out of service” time.   These units are included the d epartment‟s 5 Year Capital Plan for replacement in 
FY ‟17 and FY ‟18 respectively and it is hoped that due consideration will be given for their timely 
replacement.  The high reliability required of front line emergency apparatus becomes increasingly 
expensive and difficult to maintain as these units reach the end of their life span.    
 
Firefighters Matthew Benoit, Michael Byrne and Timothy Downey  graduated from the 
Massachusetts Firefighting Academy‟s Call/Volunteer Training Program.  This intensive 6 month 
program provides the basic skills firefighters need to operate in today‟s challenging environments.   All 
newly hired f irefighters are required to complete this program within one year of hire.  In addition, 
Firefighters Benoit, Downey, P. Andrew Duquette and J ames Reynolds obtained their certification as 
Emergency Medical Technicians. 
 
In October 2014 two Lunenburg Firefighters were recognized at the Annual Firefighter of the 
Year Awards, held at the JFK Library in Boston.  This was the first time that any of o ur firefighters have 
received this recognition in the 25 year history of the a wards.  Captain James Ricci received the Norman 
Knight Award for his outstanding efforts in Fire Prevention and Safety throughout the Community.  
Firefighter Austin Flagg receive d recognition for his rescue of a badly injured resident from a structure 
fire in January. 
 
===PAGE 76===
76 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their  
outstanding commitment to the Town .  Their enthusiasm, professionalism a nd dedication continue to 
impress me every day.  I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards and commissions for 
their continuing help.  Most people do not realize the level of interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in 
the daily course of town business.  My thanks also go out to the Citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing 
support of public safety .  It is that support that allows us to continue prov iding the services you expect 
from us. 
 
Report submitted by Fire Chief Patrick A. Sullivan 
 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2014 
 
 
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department*   
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief   
 
James Ricci, Captain/EMT    Kenneth Jones, Captain/EMT-I* 
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT-I*    Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT* 
J. Gregory Massak, Lieutenant/EMT    Shawn McKenna, Lieutenant/EMT 
Rev. Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain    Karen Weller, Paramedic/EMS 
Coordinator* 
 
Seth Bernanchez, Firefighter    Kristen Hirsch, EMT 
Matthew Benoit, FF/EMT    Richard Howard, II, FF/EMT* 
Richard Bishop, EMT*    Kristopher Klein, Firefighter* 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT*    Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT 
Eric Bursey, Firefighter    Christos Lekaditis, FF/EMT* 
Michael Byrne, FF/EMT    Peter Lekaditis, FF/EMT 
Joseph Cardone, FF/EMT    Charles Lowe, FF/EMT 
Alex Cloutier, Firefighter    Ryan Major, FF/Paramedic* 
Darrell Demers, Paramedic    Kevin Martin, FF/EMT-I 
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT    Thomas J. McCormack, Firefighter 
Maureen Crowley, EMT    Timothy Paton, Firefighter 
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*    Ian Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Paul A. Duquette, Firefighter    James Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Austin Flagg, FF/EMT*    Lori Roy, Paramedic* 
Carl Gamberdella, Firefighter    Sean Roy, FF/EMT 
Matthew Glenny, FF/EMT*    Charles Sampson, EMT 
Patrick Hakey, FF/EMT*    Jamieson Shea, FF/Paramedic 
James Hamilton, Firefighter*    Robert Szocik, FF/EMT 
Jamie Hawkins, FF/EMT    Kelly Szocik, EMT 
Alan Herget, EMT    Thomas Wilson, FF/EMT* 
     
 
*Indicates member of Specialized Rescue Teams including Dive, Cave In and Confined Space Rescue Teams 
 
===PAGE 77===
77 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
CHIEF JAMES P. MARINO 
 
 
 
 
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Police must secure the willing co-operation of the public in voluntary observance of the law to be able to secure and     
  maintain the respect of the public.” 
  Sir Robert Peel 
Mission Statement 
 
The mission of the Lunenburg Police Department is defined by a more advanced style of policing that emphasizes personal 
service and community problem resolution, and accentuates the uncompromising integrity, trust, respect, and accountability, of 
the police officers who are committed to providing a safe and secure environment for every citizen.  
The men and women of the Lunenburg Police Department are required to accept, support, and carry out this mission in a 
manner consistent with our core values and with distinction, given all practical resources, in the interest of the protection 
of life and property, preventing crime, and preserving peace. 
 
Core Values 
Courage—we, the men and women of the Lunenburg Police Department, accept as our primary obligation to be 
physically, morally, and mentally strong against the challenges we bear as law enforcement officers; always standing firm 
in the face of danger, confronting threats without apprehension, placing the safety and security of others before our own 
with honor. 
 
===PAGE 78===
78 
Integrity—we possess an uncompromising sense of rectitude with undying respect and concern for humanity while 
safeguarding the dignity of all people; we are committed to the highest level of moral principles and ethics in our actions 
and appearance worthy of the public trust; never placing ourselves above the law and always inspiring the confidence of 
our community whether on or off duty. 
 
Commitment—we will work together as a team, promoting leadership within the organization, among our peers and 
throughout the community; we are committed to faithfully meeting the demands of our profession, achieving 
organizational goals that serve the public, and performing  all of our duties to the best of our abilities with dedication and 
determination; preserving the reputation and morale of the police department; always accepting responsibility for our 
actions, always consistent, fair and impartial; treating all citizens with dignity and respect, and always concerned with the 
welfare and quality of life for all people. 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
Administrative  
Chief James P. Marino 
Public Safety Coordinator Linda Carrier 
Lieutenant Michael Luth 
 
Patrol Supervisors 
Sergeant Thomas Gammel 
  Sergeant Sean Connery 
Sergeant Jack Hebert  
 
Detectives 
Detective Sergent Jeffrey Thibodeau 
Detective  (Vacancy) 
 
Community Outreach 
Officer Sean Zrate 
 
Traffic/ K-9 
Officer Joshua Tocci 
 
Patrol Officers 
Officer Robert Diconza, Officer Joshua Mathieu, Officer Jonathan Broc, Officer Peter Lekaditis,  
Officer Brad McNamara, Officer Deven O‟Brien 
 
Desk 
Officer Lisa Melnicki 
 
Reserve Intermittent Officers 
Officer Stan Barney, Officer Donald Letarte, Officer Paul Grunditz, Officer Linda Carrier, Officer Robert Ayles, Officer Michael 
Connors, Officer Robert Dacosta, Officer Ben Campbell, Officer Samantha Hudson, Officer Lisa Melnicki, Officer Quinn Smith, 
Officer Julie Salas, Officer John Morreale, Officer Vern Beauvais, Officer Jacob Lachance.  
 
Retirements 
Reserve Officer Alphonse Baron, Reserve Officer Walter Godfrey 
 
Officer Alphone J. Baron was hired by the Lunenburg Police Department as a full time officer on October 18, 1971. He retired 
on March 22, 2002 and decided to stay with the police department as a reserve intermittent officer.  Officer Baron decided to 
permanently retire in July of 2014.  We at the Lunenburg Police Department would like to express our sincere gratitude for the 
service Officer Baron provided to this community for so many years. We wish him the best of luck in his retirement.  
 
===PAGE 79===
79 
Officer Godfrey served as a Reserve Intermittent Police officer with the Lunenburg Police Department since June 7, 1988. 
Officer Godfrey retired on January 26, 2015. We would also like to express our sincere gratitude for the service Officer Godfrey 
gave this community. We wish him the best of luck in his retirement.  
 
New Arrivals 
 
Officer Deven O‟Brien (Full Time Officer) 
Officer Julie Salas (Reserve Officer) 
Officer John Morreale (Reserve Officer) 
Officer Jacob Lachance (Reserve Officer) 
Officer Vern Beauvais (Reserve Officer) 
Officer K-9 Jerry (Full Time Officer) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regional Dispatch and the Desk Officer 
 
Reminder-- On June 28th, 2013 the Police and Fire Dispatch 
transitioned to a regional Public Safety Answering Point, (PSAP) 
located on Barnum Road in Devens. The business phone numbers 
remain the same.  
 
Police dial (978) 582-4531 
Fire dial (978) 582-4155 
Dial 911 for emergencies 
 
A desk officer is on duty at the public safety building from 7 am to 3 
pm.  After 3 pm and on weekends the public is asked to use the call 
box at the entrance of the public safety building for any Police/Fire 
business or emergencies. 
 
 
 

===PAGE 80===
80 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Arrests-PC'S-Summons
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
14000
16000
Calls For Service
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Reportable incidents and Field Interviews
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
Incidents, Arrests, Calls For Service, & Crime Rates 
 
Calls for service have increased by 13.3 percent over last year, nearly twice the amount predicted last year, and 35.7% 
over the past five years. More than 3000 man hours were used this year responding to calls.  
 
Reportable incidents and Field Interviews are all crimes that did not originate as arrests, and would need to be investigated 
and reported on or an interview with a suspect or victim was necessary and reported grew by 8.3% over last year. 
Incidents and Field Interviews have risen over the past five years by 80.8% with an average annual rate of 12%. 
Officers expend an enormous amount of time investigating, following up, and reporting on incidents. This year the man 
hours to complete just reports for incidents and field interviews exceeded 1700. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Arrests, Protective Custody and Criminal Complaint Summons have increased by 47.3% over last year and 78.6% over 
the past five years with an average annual rate of 15%.   To assure the safety of the officers and detainees department 
policy requires a minimum of two officers for all arrests and bookings. The average arrests including, processing at the 
scene of arrest, transporting to the police lock-up, booking, processing evidence, completing arrest reports and related 
documents, and then transporting the prisoner to court takes approximately four (4) hours.  
Many time two officers will be scheduled per shift. When an arrest commits both officers additional help will be called in 
at the overtime rate to handle calls. 
 
 
Violent crime rose to 6% above last year with Simple assaults responsible most of the increase. Property crimes increased 
by 28%. Burglaries went down with Shoplifting/Larceny, Forgery and Fraud driving the increase. Drug and weapons 
violations cause crimes against society to increase 63%. Disorderly conduct, alcohol related crime, driving under the 
influence and trespassing topped the Group B crimes with a 64% increase.  
The rise in crime can be attributed to many factors such as the unemployment rate. The increase in drug related crimes 
could be due to a sharp rise in opioid addiction. Modes of transportation have increased. The geographical location places  
===PAGE 81===
81 
Group B Crimes 
 Bad Checks 
 Disorderly Conduct 
 Driving Under the Influence 
 Drunkenness 
 Liquor Law Violations 
 Runaways (18 or under) 
 Trespass of Real Property 
 All Other offenses 
 
(The largest increases were Trespass and Alcohol 
Related Crime) 
 
Increase of 64 % over last year 
Lunenburg on the border of the two largest cities in Worcester County. Criminal Offenders from other jurisdictions 
account for a significant part of the crime rate.  Other factors include increase in population, effective strength of law 
enforcement, administrative and investigative emphasis of law enforcement; areas that could be improved with increased 
staffing levels. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Issues 
 
As of December 20, 2015 the 3 pm to 7 pm, Monday thru Friday, Desk Watch officer position has been discontinued. 
Lack of funding will not allow me to keep the public safety building open during those hours. 
 
As I have continually emphasized; leaving a public safety building un-manned in a community such as ours raises 
fundamental questions, irrespective of fiscal restraint, about  the police department‟s and fire department‟s day to day 
operations, the services demanded by the public, and  the safety and security of the building and the community.  
 
The importance of the desk officer position with respect to the service it represents is evident. A sample of data revealed 
that that in a 35 day period, from the 2nd of September to October 21st, 35 days, 709 calls were logged and the public 
visited the lobby for police or fire service 414 times.  The day shift desk officer investigated 136 complaints in the lobby 
over the past year; larcenies, missing persons, violations of restraining orders, served harassment orders, restraining 
orders, motor vehicle accidents, motor vehicle complaints, neighbor disputes, medical emergencies, child abuse annoying  
Group A Crimes Against Persons 
 Forcible Rape 
 Sexual Assault 
 Aggravated Assault 
 Simple Assault     (Responsible for the largest 
increase) 
 Intimidation 
 Statutory Rape 
 
Increase of 6% above Last Year 
 
===PAGE 82===
82 
phone calls, threats, trespassing, vandalism, sexual assault, processed 61 firearms licenses, registered 6 sex offenders just 
to name a few. The 3 pm to 7 pm shift which was cut back in December, logged nearly half again that of the daytime desk 
officer. 
  
Staffing issues never seem to go away. The town has far outgrown its police department. The increased demand for 
service with inadequate staffing has a direct effect on our ability to decrease overtime, reduces officer initiated activities, 
and compromises our crime clearance rate. The demand for service has increased 35.7% over the last five years. Calls for 
service, arrests, criminal complaints, and incidents continue to increase dramatically. Patrolling the streets to increase 
visibility, to reduce the fear of crime, or prevent crime has become problematic again this year because the work load has 
increased. Again this year officers had to be called in or were held over their regular scheduled shifts to meet the work 
load demand.  In the first six months of Fiscal 2015 officers were called in for various reasons 104 times, a 44.4% 
increase over last year. As I have said in the past, growth will continue to bridge the gap between staffing levels and the 
workload.  Services will never rise to an acceptable level without a meaningful increase in the amount of police officers 
we employ.  
 
Emergency response will never change. The police will always have to respond to emergencies, and the community will 
have to provide an adequate level of police staffing to perform this function with respect to reasonable response times, 
with respect to the safety of the public and with the safety of police officers in mind, and not the least of which to reduce 
exposure to civil liability. 
 
Non-emergency response where officers respond to calls and collect information and evidence and take statements 
necessary to solve crimes, will also continue to climb in numbers with social change and growth.  
 
Quality of life issues come under the classification of officer initiated calls. An example of this level of policing is traffic 
enforcement and crime prevention. The public expects the same service with both these levels of law enforcement and 
these are the services that suffer the most from budget cuts and inadequate staffing. When the police have no time to 
properly investigate crimes, engage the community to solve problems, or provide quick emergency response because of 
the increased demands placed on individual officers due to poor staffing levels, then the community will quickly see the 
police as ineffective. The community will be less and less interested in supporting a service that has no value. 
 
Thank you again this year for allowing me to serve as your Chief of Police. I fully appreciate and I value, and I thank you 
for the support the town has shown the police department.  I humbly ask for your uncompromising commitment going 
forward as I seek funding for additional staffing and desk service at the public safety building so that I can provide the 
services that Lunenburg needs, that Lunenburg deserves, and that Lunenburg is entitled to.   
 
Despite all these challenges we face, Lunenburg is still a safe place to reside or visit. I can assure you the men and women 
of the Lunenburg Police Department stand by our promise to carry out our mission and to realize our vision; to give the 
best service, to guarantee the greatest security and provide safest environment for every citizen. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Chief James P Marino 
Chief James P. Marino 
===PAGE 83===
83 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 84===
84 
===PAGE 85===
85 
CAPITAL PLANNING  
 
Lunenburg‟s Charter specifically mandates that a Capital Planning Committee prepare a Fiscal 
Year (FY) Plan and a Capital Improvement Plan. These plans are to be presented to the Town 
Manager.  
 
As noted in the past reports, the criterion for any capital request includes Mandates, Safety, 
Need, Crisis, Cost Effectiveness and Ability to Fund. The Capital Planning Committee has to 
review each request under these six elements. Not only do they have to determine that the 
request fits within the criteria, but they have to prioritize the level that meets the criteria. 
Therefore, not all requests are included in the FY Plans, mostly due to funding. The result of the 
proposed FY Plans provides the needed service for safety and protection of the public, the 
upkeep to our schools and the management of government.  
 
At the Annual Town Meeting May 2014, the following items, totaling $ 1,114,152, were 
presented in the FY15 Plan. 
 
DEPARTMENT AMOUNT ITEM  
 
School  $138,000 School Asbestos 
Fire Department $550,000  Engine 1   
Police Department  $  40,000  Radio Infrastructure 
Police Department  $  46,000 Marked Vehicle 
Public Safety  $  12,000  Epoxy Floors 
Police Department $  14,000  Rifles, Shotguns, Shields 
School Department  $  14,000  Upgrade Control System 
School Department  $  25,000  School Technology  
Town Technology  $  40,000  Technology, Town-wide  
Senior Center $  10,000  Carpeting 
Fire Department  $  30,000  Car 2 
DPW    $  35,000   Asphalt Roller  
Marshall Park              $  37,000   Parking Lot 
Senior Center   $  15,798   HVAC Repairs 
Town Technology  $  14,400  Technology, Town-wide  
School Department  $  25,000  School Technology  
Senior Center   $  11,430   Sprinkler 
Library              $  36,524   Carpet 
Ritter Building  $  20,000   HVAC Repairs 
 
The committee meets each year after the Capital Budget is presented to the Town Manager and 
considers improvement to the methodology of creating the budget. In future preparation the 
committee will conduct more meetings on site.  
 
Marion Benson, Planning Director, Chair  
Jamie Toale, Board of Selectmen       Steve Raboin, Finance Committee 
Colleen Shapiro, School Committee                   Dennis Mannone Jr., Citizens‟ Representative 
===PAGE 86===
86 
PLANNING BOARD  
 
The Planning Board welcomed new member Kenneth Chenis  and returning member  Matthew 
Allison.  Emerick Bakaysa resigned from the Board after serving some twenty years.  Marion M. 
Benson retired from her position as Planning Director  after serving on the Planning Board since 
1983, and assuming the position of Planning Director in 2005.  The Planning Director‟s posi tion 
was replaced with a Land Use Director position to co ordinate the activities of all boards and 
departments involved in land use/development in t own.  Adam R. Burney , previously serving as 
Acting Director of Development &  Inspectional Services for the T own of Auburn,  was hired as 
Land Use Director. 
 
The Board signed eleven (11) ANR plans (subdivision of lots for separate building lots). 
 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom continued construction according to the approved plan with 
three different housing styles.   
 
Tri Town Landing , Youngs Road  was awarded some tax credit funding and hopes to begin 
construction on Building 4.  Buildings 1, 2, and 3 are occupied as rentals and all ninety-nine (99) 
units have been rented.   
 
Stone Farm Estates, Massachusetts Avenue is still being constructed to completion.   
 
Highfield Village, Northfield Road is still in review. Several extensions have been given.   
 
Whitetail Crossing  plans on requesting t own acceptance of the roadway interior at May 2015 
Town Meeting. 
 
Sequoia Drive and Whites Woods Phase III are building upon request. 
 
At May Town Meeting the Town passed an article to add the Registered Marijuana Dispensary 
Bylaw to the Zoning Bylaws.  This b ylaw governs the placement of these facilities in suitable 
locations, minimizing the adverse impact by regulating the siting, design, placement, and 
security of these facilities.   
 
In conjunction with the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission, a Housing Production 
Plan was designed.  This plan, approved by both the Board of Selectmen and the Planning Board, 
will aid Lunenburg in guiding housing development and can influence the type, amount, and 
location of affordable housing.  In January 2015, t he p lan w ill be  forwarded to the State f or 
approval.   
 
A Village Center District Bylaw was crafted to be presented as a warrant article at May 2015 
Town Meeting.  The creation of  this new d istrict in the Center is intended to encourage growth 
that creates a dynamic active environment while retaining the area's existing character. 
 
Chair Joanna Bilotta-Simeone is the Board‟s representative to the Montachusett Regional 
Planning Commission and the Capital Planning Committee.  Nathan Lockwood is the  
===PAGE 87===
87 
PLANNING BOARD  
 
representative to the School Building Committee and the liaison to the Open Space Committee.  
Kenneth Chenis is the representative to the Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee.  
Damon McQuaid is the representative to the Building Reuse Committee.   Matthew Allison is 
liaison to the Agricultural Commission.  Adam Burney is liaison to the Green Community Task 
Force. 
 
The Planning Board continues to work toward the goals as identified in the Master Plan for the 
betterment of the Town. 
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice Chair  
Damon McQuaid, Clerk 
Kenneth Chenis, Member 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
   
===PAGE 88===
88 
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard many petitions during calendar year 2014.   There were several 
applicants seeking special permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board 
meetings are held on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month on an “as needed” basis. 
 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:  Donald F. Bowen, Chairman, Raymond Beal, 
Vice Chairman, James Besarkarski, Alfred Gravelle, Hans Wentrup and Associate memb ers, David Blatt, 
Paul Doherty and Sheila Lumi.   Lisa Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning 
Board. 
 
The functions of the Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows: 
 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town‟s Protective By-Laws as authorized in 
the By-laws. 
 
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town‟s Protective By-
laws. 
 
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts 
General Laws, as amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain 
a permit or enforcement action from the Administrative Officer or Boar d in the Town, the 
Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or other Administrative Official. 
 
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 40B.  The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews request s for comprehensive permits 
submitted to the Board under Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.  
These requests can, by law, circumvent local zoning ordinances. 
 
The Office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts 
Avenue.  If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978-582-4146 
X 421 during regular business hours.  Zoning Board applications are available in the office of the Town 
Clerk and online at www.Lunenburgonline.com. 
 
Donald F. Bowen, Chairman 
Raymond Beal, Vice Chairman 
James Besarkarski, Member 
Alfred Gravelle, Member 
Hans Wentrup, Member 
Paul Doherty, Associate Member 
Shelia Lumi, Associate Member 
David Blatt, Associate Member 
 
===PAGE 89===
89 
EDUCATION 
===PAGE 90===
90 
===PAGE 91===
91 
LUNENBURG PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
2014-2015 
 
Our Vision:  The Lunenburg Public Schools prides itself on excellence.  We provide a child -
centered environment that challenges all learners to achieve their highest potential.  This is 
accomplished through a partnership with a supportive community.   
 
Our Mission :  We prepare our students for life -long learning and responsible community 
membership. 
 
Our Guiding Beliefs:   
 Education is a community partnership. 
 Learning is reflective, creative, ongoing, and takes place in all environments. 
 A successful school actively engages students and staff. 
 All students have talents and can excel. 
 Professional growth is fundamental to instructional excellence. 
 All students are capable of learning and are entitled to instructional excellence. 
 Staff and students are entitled to a safe, healthy and positive learning environment. 
 An atmosphere of mutual respect is essential for learning. 
Lunenburg School Committee 
Chairperson:  Gregory Berthiaume, Term Expires: 2016 
Vice-Chairperson:  Michael Mackin, Term Expires: 2017 
Secretary: Heather Sroka, Term Expires, 2017 
Member: Colleen Shapiro, Term Expires: 2016 
Member:  Brendan Grady, Term Expires: 2015 
Regular Meetings 
First Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall - Televised 
Third Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Thomas C. Passios  
Special meetings or changes in meetings are posted at Town Hall 
 
Central Office Personnel 
Superintendent of Schools                        Special Services 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent  Julianna Hanscom, Director 
Elizabeth Petersen, Executive Secretary  Fran McCluskey, Admin. Secretary                                                                  
  Anne-Rose Coyle, Secretary (PT) 
                                                                                   
School Personnel/Business Services  Facilities & Grounds 
Sandra Curley, Manager  John J. Londa, Director 
Kerry Cooper, Accounting/Data Reporting  Robert Roy, Maintenance 
  Charles Swift, District-wide                                                     
Technology/Network Service  Utility/Custodial 
Steve Malandrinos, Director                                  Brian Sanders, District-wide                                                                    
Josh Branham, Technician                                     Utility/Custodial   
Jordan Pochini, Technician                                    Transportation Service- Dee Bus Services 
                                                                                                                         
Cafeteria Services 
Patricia Pichnarcik, Lunenburg High School Café Manager; Judy Haley, Turkey Hill Middle 
School Café Manager; Nadine Lorenzen, Lunenburg Primary School Café Manager  
===PAGE 92===
92 
Superintendent’s Message  
I am honored to report to you another on anot her exciting and productive year for the Lunenburg 
Public Schools.  Certainly the start of construction on the new middle -high school is a highlight.  
It has been inspiring to see the changes to the campus landscape and watch the building and one 
of three new fields be constructed.  Site enabling began summer 2014 as local contractor Powell 
Stone and Gravel started removing topsoil and trees so construction could get underway.  We all 
experienced a sense of loss with the removal of most of the trees from th e front lawn, but that 
feeling was soon replaced with excitement as the footprint of the new building was made distinct 
and the grading, leveling, irrigation and sod installation on the front field progressed.  The 
ceremonial groundbreaking was held Octobe r 18, 2014 in conjunction with Homecoming.  What 
a proud and glorious day that was for our community!  Certainly the best speeches of that day 
were delivered by students Lauren Basque , President of the Class of 2016, the last class to 
graduate from the currently Lunenburg High School and Brendan Tobin, President of the Class of 
2017, the first class to graduate from the new school.  Planning for the next milestone ceremony, 
the “Topping Off” is underway. This ceremony is a steelworker‟s tradition for placin g the last 
beam. 
 
The building project progressed from site enabling to the pouring of footings and frost walls.  
Work on the front field was completed in mid -October.  The sod and grass require at least one 
growing season before use and the intent is to bring the field on line no later than  Fall 2015.  
School athletes and Town youth program participants and their coaches have cooperated well to 
share the limited field space that remains during construction with all soccer programs needing to 
go off-site.  I want to recognize and thank Athletic Director Peter McCauliff and members of the 
Lunenburg youth sports groups for their efforts in scheduling the limited fields.   
 
Structural steel arrived at the site in December and the first column was placed Decemb er 8, 
2014.  It was remarkable how quickly the erection of the steel progressed, and by January the 
high school wing and auditorium steel were in place and the high school wing wrapped.   The 
temporary tent enclosure with temporary heating and lighting services allows work to continue in 
winter conditions.  The historic snow fall and frigid temperature in the final days of January and 
through February slowed, but did not halt progress.  In the final week of February, as I write this 
report, construction act ivities include: steel erection, roof and second floor decking installation, 
temporary utility service work and underground mechanical/electrical/plumbing (MEP) work.  
 
In Area/Building “A” where the High 
School classrooms are located, steel 
erection and d ecking installation is nearing 
completion. Remaining work related to slab 
on deck and sloped roof decking is 
scheduled to be completed during February, 
2015. Installation of roof edge and exterior 
framing is scheduled to commence late 
February, 2015 and co ntinue through early 
spring. Installation of roof drains with 
mechanical, electrical, and plumbing 
(MEP) penetrations will commence in early 
March, 2015 if weather permits.  
 
For Areas/Buildings “B” & “C” where the 
auditorium, library, administrative offic es, 
art and music classroom, gym and locker  

===PAGE 93===
93 
 
rooms are located, steel erection and 
decking installation is underway. Steel 
trusses for building “C” Gym are in place. 
Second floor and roof decking, moment 
welds; detail, plumb, bolt and inspection 
work is underway in these areas. Roof edge 
installation is scheduled to commence early 
March, 2015.  
 
Finally, in Area/Building “D”, where the 
middle school classrooms and cafeteria are 
located, Steel erection, second floor and 
roof decking installation of building “ D” 
has commenced. 
 
 
 The building project has its own website at our 
website www.lunenburgschools.net and Facebook 
page -Lunenburg Middle/High School Building 
Project. The anticipated opening of the new school is 
September 2016.  Detailed planning for the transition 
to the new building and reconfigured district is 
underway. 
 
Our students performed well on their state assessments again this year.  Members of the Class of 2015 are 
receiving acceptance letters for top tier colleges and universities.   We are very proud of all our 
Lunenburg students and most appreciative of the adults -teachers, parents/guardians, support personnel 
and administrators - who engage, support and challenge them each and every day.  District -wide the 
majority of Lunenburg students continue to score at the proficient or advanced level.  Grade and content 
Composite Performance Index (CPI) scores are strong.  CPI is based upon 100 and in Lunenburg 19 of 20 
CPI scores are 80 or above and 6 CPI scores were 90 or above.  Generally, grade level ELA performance  
was higher than mathematics. The 2014 District accountability level remained unch anged at Level 2.  
District educators have been working to close achievement gaps and move all students to high levels of 
performance.   We are encouraged with the positive results in many areas.  However, there are a few areas 
where we have not seen the p erformance gains we anticipated from our interventions.  That concerns us 
and we have undertaken additional analysis of the data, made adjustments and intensified our focus in 
targeted areas. Detailed state reports about District, school and grade level st udent performance can be 
accessed from a link on our website.  
    
Lunenburg students continue to excel both in and outside the classroom.  We all have delighted in 
watching them on the stage and on the playing field.  They  distinguish themselves with thei r various 
talents.  Performance at that level comes from self -discipline, hours of  practice, and hard  work.  Our 
students, musicians, and athletes represent our school and community well.  Various individuals and 
academic teams scored high marks in a varie ty of state and national contests.  School thespians 
entertained and overwhelmed us with their performances at the forty-ninth annual competitive class plays.  
Congratulations to the Class of 2015 for their outstanding and award winning performance of “Ali ce in 
Wonderland”.  The marching band captivated us with their half -time show again this fall, and the middle 
and high school music concerts have been most enjoyable and uplifting.  Lunenburg students‟ work in the 
visual arts was exhibited locally and at s tate competitions.  Our athletic teams competed successfully at 
the district and state levels.   
 
Ms. Brook Hansel, a senior at Lunenburg High School and daughter of Mark and Kelly Hansel of 
Lunenburg, received the Superintendent‟s Award for 2014.  Brook undertook a rigorous course of study 
and is among the top achievers in her class.  In addition to distinguishing herself as a student, she has also 
been recognized for her remarkable service and leadership.  She received the Daughters of the American 
Revolution Good Citizen Award and was appointed to the Best Buddies International Young Leaders 
Council.  Ms. Hansel expertly managed both a challenging class schedule and other school activities 
including National Honor Society, Student Council, Best Buddies, and chorus.   
===PAGE 94===
94 
She was a three season all -star athlete and this fall will attend UMASS on a track scholar ship.   
Ms. Hansel personifies our mission for lifelong learning and responsible community membership; 
constantly learning, growing, achieving and giving.  She inspires us with her joy of learning and 
service to her community. 
 
Enrollment – January 30, 2015 
Grade Level Lunenburg 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Shirley Students Total 
PK 52 0  0  52 
K 113  0  0 113  
1 127  0 127  
2 121 1  0 122 
3 132  1 0 133 
Primary Total 545  2  0 547 
4 113 2 0 115 
5 135 1  0 136 
6 118  3 0 121  
7 113  1 0  114 
THMS Total 479  7 0  486  
8 124  5 0 129 
9 110  2 0 112 
10 107 8 0 115  
11  91  9 2 102 
12   101  6  3 110  
Ungraded 6  0 0  6 
LHS Total 539  30  5  574  
 1563 39 5  1607 
This past year our schools bid farewell to retirees who devoted many years to  public service.  
Retiring this past year were Nancy Karis, THMS teacher with 33 years of service; Dale 
Diamantopoulos, THMS physical education teacher with 33 years of service; Judith Moodie, 
Primary teacher with 32 years of service; Sheila Szocik, LHS Ad ministrative Secretary with 29 
years of service; Kay Alverson -Hillman, LHS teacher with 22 years of service; Donna Dufour, 
Primary teacher with 20 years of service; and Martha Cheesman, LHS teacher with 13 years of 
service.  We appreciate the many contribu tions of these dedicated and committed professionals 
and extend our best wishes to them in their retirement.   
 
In concluding my report this year I want to express my appreciation for the talented, hard -
working, caring and giving students of the Lunenburg Public Schools and the parents/guardians 
who share their wonderful sons and daughters with us.  We are committed to our partnership with 
parents and the community. I also extend my respect and gratitude to the dedicated professional 
educators, support staff, advisors, and coaches of our schools who give their best work each day 
for our students.  I also want to acknowledge the members of the School Committee who give so 
many hours to the governance of the school in volunteer service to the community.   Fina lly, I 
want to thank the citizens of Lunenburg for supporting our students and our schools. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent of Schools 
===PAGE 95===
95 
School Facilities 
2014-2015 
 
Site work began on the Lunenburg Middle/High School project in July 2014. Shawmut 
Construction Management is executing the project with oversight by Joslin, Lesser & Associates 
and the School Building Committee. Foundation work began in September and was completed in 
early December. The building‟s steel structure began to be installed in December 2014 and is 
expected to be complete by the end of March 2015 
 
The FY15 capital plan approved upgrades to the front end controllers of the Building 
Management Systems at Lunenburg Primary School at a total cost of $14,000. This work was 
awarded to Control Technologies and was completed by September 2014. Also funded in the 
FY15 Capital Plan was $138,000 to abate asbestos at Turkey Hill Middle School. The asbestos 
abatement work was bid in May 2014 but came in at $175,000 so no work was completed during 
the summer of 2014. The scope of the work has been reduced and is expected to be rebid in April 
2015.   
 
The focus of the school maintenance effort for FY15 continued to concentrate on preventative 
maintenance of heat and ventilation systems and energy conservation.  
 
The Town of Lunenburg successfully applied as a Green Community in 2013. Projects that were 
completed for Turkey Hill Middle School in the summer of 2014 include replacement of the 
building‟s climate control air compressor with a smaller unit and installation of variable speed 
drives on the building heating circulation pumps. Lunenburg Primary School energy efficiency 
measures planned included lighting upgrades, however they were not funded. Efforts during the 
year were directed at finding a more cost effective approach to upgrade the lighting systems.  
 
For the FY16 Capital Program, the School Department requested an additional $34,500 for 
asbestos abatement for Turkey Hill Middle School on a multi-year abatement plan.  Also for the 
Middle School was a request to upgrade the phone system and the intercom system at $22,000 
each. Requests were also submitted for the District Technology plan at $36,200, a replacement 
grounds shed for $32,000 and $38,656 to begin to prepare to move the district headquarters to the 
Turkey Hill Middle School during the summer of 2016. As of the time of this report, it would 
appear that no funds will be appropriated for any of the FY16 requests.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
John Londa, Director of Facilities 
===PAGE 96===
96 
Special Services Department 
Town Report – FY14 (data taken from 2013-2014 school year) 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
 
There are two hundred and seventy -eight students with disabilities receiving special 
education or related services in Lunenburg.  This represents 17.8% of our total student population 
of 1,564 students (it was 18.4% last year).  This percentage is slightly more than the state average 
of 17%.  As of March 1, 2014, the total number of students receiving services outsi de the district 
was twenty -six.  Of the twenty -six students, seven are serviced in Collaborative Placements, 
thirteen are in Day Placements and six are in Residential Placements.  During the 2013 -2014 
school year (8/28/13 – 6/19/14) seventy -one students id entified with a disability received 
accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg.   
This year as a district, our Accountability and Assistance Level is Level 2 with both 
Turkey Hill Middle and Lunenburg High Schools listed as Level 2.  The state report card l ists 
Students with Disabilities in Lunenburg as “Did Not Meet Target”.  The district‟s Students with 
Disabilities progress towards narrowing proficiency gaps [Cumulative Progress and Performance 
Index (CPI): 1-100)] is listed at 54 (it was 50 last year) wi th the target set for 75.  Students with 
Disabilities participated in MCAS this year with the following rates:  English Language Arts = 
97%, Mathematics = 98%, and Science = 96%.  This data can be found at the DESE 
websitehttp://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=0162
0000&orgtypecode=5& 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the 
whole Special Services Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they 
are targeting each year.  For our Indicators, the following information is available below and also 
can be found at:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2012 -2013 school year, the state target for Students with 
Disabilities was 80.0%. Lunenburg surpassed the target with 82.4% and the overall state rate was 
only 67.8% for Students with Disabilities.   
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2012 -2013 school year, the state target for Students with 
Disabilities was 4.3%. Lunenburg surpasse d the target with 0% and the overall state rate was 
2.9% for Students with Disabilities.   
Indicator 3C  – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS.  For the 2013 MCAS, 
Lunenburg Students with Disabilities CPI ratings were as follows: 
   
Grade Subject Lunenburg State 
Grade 3 Reading 68.2 63.4 
Grade 3 Mathematics 77.3 64.4 
Grade 4 Reading 51.6 55.5 
Grade 4 Mathematics 56.3 61.0 
Grade 5 ELA 59.8 62.3 
Grade 5 Mathematics 56.5 57.3 
Grade 5 Science 64.1 60.4 
Grade 6 ELA 56.5 63.1 
Grade 6 Mathematics 69.6 54.9 
Grade 7 ELA 74.1 68.3 
Grade 7 Mathematics 49.1 48.0 
Grade 8 ELA 72.9 69.9 
Grade 8 Mathematics 49.0 48.8 
===PAGE 97===
97 
Grade 8 Science 46.9 50.1 
Grade 10 ELA 85.4 88.4 
Grade 10 Mathematics 72.9 70.0 
Grade 10 Science ** 70.3 
        ** =not enough students in cohort to calculate CPI 
 
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, 
our rate was only .3%.  The state rate was 1.1%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant 
discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2013, Lunenburg was 
not found to have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.  
Indicator 5 -  Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2012 -2013, the 
state‟s target rates are as follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 59.7%, Partial Inclusion = “not 
identified”, Substantially Separate Placements = 14.5%, and for Separate Schools/Residential 
Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 5.5%.  In Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows :  Full 
Inclusion = 76.2%, Partial = 10.0%, Substantially Separate = 6.9% and Separate schools, 
Residential, etc. = 6.9%.  
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3 -5 with IEPs.  The 2012-2013 state 
rates showed the percent of students rec eiving a majority of their special education and related 
services in a Full Inclusion early childhood program was 38.9%, in a Partial Inclusion Program 
was 37.2%, a Substantially Separate Placement (special education class, separate school, or 
residential facility) was 15.1%, and students not attending an early childhood program but 
receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was 8.9%.  In Lunenburg, our early 
childhood Full Inclusion rate was 45.7%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 5.1%, Substantia lly 
Separate rate was .3%, and Related Services only 1.0%. 
Indicator 9 & 10 -  Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and 
in Special Education Categories.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no 
disproportionality found in either case.  
Indicator 11  – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   T his indicator measures the % of children with 
parental consent to evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established timeline. Data is 
reported for all initial evaluations initiated in October, November, and December of the reporting 
year.  Lunenburg was rated 100% in compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 
96.8%.  
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred by 
Part C, found eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and 
implemented by their third birthdays. The state target for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg is 
noted as “Suppressed”.  Data is suppressed if the number of students referred by Part C and found 
eligible for special education services is fewer than 10.  In Lunenburg, only 2 students were 
referred during 2012-2013.  
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  This indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 
and above with an IEP that includes appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually 
updated and based upon an age appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including 
courses of study, that will reasonably enable the student to meet t hose postsecondary goals, and 
annual IEP goals related to the student's transition services needs. Lunenburg was rated 100% in 
compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 99.2%.  
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of 
students with IEPs who exited high school during the 2011-12 school year and self-reported post-
school engagement in education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement 
is defined through three measurements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
===PAGE 98===
98 
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year 
of leaving high school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some othe r postsecondary education 
or training program; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within one 
year of leaving high school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged 
in a post-secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2012-13 school year, state 
targets for the three measurements of Post -School Outcomes are Measurement A: 44%; 
Measurement B: 77%; and Measurement C: 84%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows:  Measurement 
A = 71.4%, Measurement B = 100% and Measurement C = 100%.   
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an 
active support group for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and community 
members can join the group, which currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I 
services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are typically held the first Friday of 
each month, 11:00AM, at the Thomas C. Passios Building, room 13.  The executive b oard is 
made up of Chairperson Kelly Harvey and Treasurer Pami Terren.  Several events and 
presentations were organized by the PACSAL for both parents and teachers in Lunenburg this 
year.  
For more information, go to:  
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/pacsal.   
In conclusion, the Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special 
needs services to meet the varying needs of our stud ents in the least restrictive environment.  We 
have an experienced, hard-working staff that works together with parents to provide these varied 
services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to develop challenging and focused 
educational program s for children.  We remain committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools 
mission, “We prepare our students for lifelong learning and responsible community 
membership.”  This is a total community effort and we encourage ALL Lunenburg residents to 
join with us to create positive experiences and futures for our children.   
 
  For additional information please visit our website: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/, or contact Julianna Hanscom, 
Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts Ave, (978) 582-4100, 
ext. 300. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
 
 
===PAGE 99===
99 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL 
2014-2015 
 
The Lunenburg Primary School is a child -centered school devoted to providing quality 
early childhood education for all students.  We are a community of teachers, students, and parents 
working together to create a safe and respectful environmen t for children.  Current knowledge 
and research of child development guides the school‟s beliefs and practices and provides the 
foundation for learning for all students.   
 
The Lunenburg Primary School services Preschool to Third grade students.  The Octob er 
1, 2013 student count reported to the state was 527 students.  Our Preschool program services 
twelve, three year old students and thirty-three four year old students. We have five Kindergarten 
classes servicing one hundred and ten students. The class si zes in our Kindergarten programs 
range from 21 -22 students.  First grade has one hundred and twenty -seven students with class 
sizes ranging from 25 -26. Second grade has one hundred and twenty -three students with class 
sizes of 24-25 and the third grade has  one hundred and thirty two students with class sizes of 26 -
27.  We are utilizing all available space in the building to provide a child centered enriching 
educational program for all our students.   
 
Our Professional Development this year focused on ALICE  training, the Teacher 
Evaluation process, the Common Core curriculum, and Curriculum Mapping updates. The 
ALICE training is a proactive safety protocol used in the event of an active shooter.  This is 
necessary to enhance our current safety procedures and  processes.  All of our classroom teachers 
continued to use Responsive Classroom strategies as part of our Academic/Social/Emotional 
Learning Curriculum which includes morning meetings, guided discovery, rules and logical 
consequences and academic choice. 
 
The Primary School community continues to strive for academic excellence.  Common 
assessments are in place in the fall, winter, and spring for all children in grades K -3 in the areas 
of reading, writing, and math.  These common assessments serve to monito r the effectiveness of 
teacher instruction and drives instructional programming for our students.  We are now able to 
track progress throughout the year in a faster, more efficient manner in order to improve 
instruction.  Students are identified quickly an d additional resources and direct instruction are 
provided to address the areas of concern identified.  The Primary School is a Title One school and 
we continue to utilize a Response to Intervention (Title One/RTI) approach to address student 
needs.  Our t iered instructional system insures that all students have the instruction necessary to 
continue good progress with their learning. Tiered instructional services are provided in the area 
of Language Arts (Reading and Writing) and Math.  The  first tier involves the largest number of 
students, and is fitted for universal instruction in the classroom.  Teachers are skilled in 
differentiating instruction to meet a large number of student needs in the classroom.  The second 
tier combines more classroom teacher su pport and Title One Support for students. Title One/RTI 
services are based on student needs that are targeted, individual, and involve more intensive 
interventions.  The third tier is the smallest and involves special services with very intense 
interventions.  The tiered instructional model requires that the teachers not only individualize 
instruction to meet the needs of the students who are struggling with learning but those students 
who are doing well and need to strive to achieve higher levels of learni ng.  With this model 
learning is more personalized and students are taught to become independent learners and 
problem solvers. 
 
===PAGE 100===
100 
One hundred and four 3rd grade students participated in the spring 2014 MCAS 
Assessment at the Primary School in March and May last year.  The results were released and 
sent home to parents on September 30th.  For our 3rd graders this was their first experience taking 
the state testing and the second time the MCAS testing has been completed at the Primary School.  
We worked to make sure that students understand that they are capable and prepared to take this 
assessment each year. Students prepared inspirational posters and we held our first MCAS Prep 
Rally where the students sang the MCAS song. Teachers stress that the ongoing learning 
opportunities students have experienced over the last several years have prepared them to perform 
well on this assessment.   
 
In the area of English Language Arts there were 68 students or 65% who scored in the advanced 
and proficient range of functioning (14 advanced, 54 proficient). 30 students or 29% were in the 
needs improvement range (24 of which scored 230 or greater, 15 students were within three 
points of achieving a proficient score). 6% (6) were in the warning range.  These results are 
similar to the previous year‟s result.  This continues to be an area of focus for the Primary School. 
In the area of Math 80 students or 78% of our 3rd graders scored in the Advanced and Proficient 
range of functioning (39 students- 38%-in the advanced range of functioning and 41 students 
(40%) in the proficient range of functioning). 16% scored in the needs improvement range of 
functioning with 10 students scoring 230 or greater in the High –needs improvement range.  Six 
students or 6% were in the warning range on the Math Assessment.  Last year 85% of the 
students who took the Math MCAS scored in the Advanced/Proficient range of functioning.  
These results again are pretty similar to last years.  We continue to maintain a higher number of 
students in the advanced range of functioning compared to two years ago. 
 
Our high needs students (students with disabilities, student requiring Title I services, students 
requiring ELL instruction and low income students) continue to lag behind their peers both in 
ELA and Math. Using the old No Child Left Behind comparison, Composite Performance Index 
(CPI), which is used to measure the extent to which students are progressing toward proficiency 
(a CPI of 100 is the target) our non-high need students, achieved a Composite Performance Index 
(CPI) score of 94.1; our high need students received a CPI of 73.6 in ELA.  In the area of math 
our students‟ considered to have non-high needs (CPI) scored 97 and our high needs students 
scored 77.1.  We continue to address these student achievement gaps by using Tiered 
Instructional strategies and direct instruction, Individualized Educational Plans and Curriculum 
Accommodation plans.  
Student Growth Data is not available for students in the 3rd grade as this is the first time they have 
taken the MCAS assessment.   
 
If you would like to access graphs and additional data related to MCAS please go to the following 
web page: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/achievement_level.aspx?linkid=32&orgcode=01620010&orgty
pecode=6&   
Our staff works hard to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and 
supportive of each of our members. We have high expectations, insist on respectful behavior, and 
recognize the importance of building a community where members feel a sense of belonging and 
responsibility to contribute.  Our students have a right to be in an environment which is safe, 
promotes learning, and enables them to achieve success.   
 
The Primary School Council meets each month to discuss school issues, review the 
annual budget for the school and to develop the School Improvement Plan as well as make 
revisions to the school‟s handbook. 
 
===PAGE 101===
101 
Members of the Council for the 2014 –2015 school year were: 
Principal:    Elaine E. Blaisdell 
Assistant Principal  Chad Adams 
Teachers:     Sherrie Flynn, Justin Sparks, Maribeth Ford 
Parents:        Jennifer Begley, Kristen Burns, Brendon Kibbe 
Community Representative: B.J. Carbone 
School Committee Representative:  Heather Sroka 
 
In closing, the faculty and staff of the Primary School are extremely proud of the work 
they do with young children.  We are deeply committed to student learning and to our own life -
long learning and efforts to improve our craft. Together with our parents as partners we are able 
to accomplish our goals and mission.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Elaine E. Blaisdell, Principal 
  
===PAGE 102===
102 
Lunenburg Primary School 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2014-2015 
 
Central Office:                                                                                                         
Elaine Blaisdell - Principal 
  
First Grade: 
1A – Michael Courtemanche   
Special Education 
Karen Rash 
Chad Adams - Asst. Principal 
  
1B –Nicole Bienvenu   Michelle Withers 
Denise Galloway - Admin. Secty.  
 
1C –Joanne Londa   Susan Charpentier 
Carrie Ford - School Nurse  
 
1D- Christa Palma   Kristin Anthony 
Kristin Mackay – Guidance   1E-Jackie Favreau   
 Pre- School: 
Sherrie Flynn - Teacher   
 
Second Grade:   
Paraprofessionals: 
Mary Jean Davis 
Jeanette Biery -Paraprofessional   2A - Vickie Barbier   Sue Ahearn 
Ita Murphy - Teacher  
 
2B – Justin Sparks   Patti Kilcommins 
Patti McColl - Paraprofessional  
 
2C - Sara Kenney   Carrie Arciprete 
Marie Martin - Paraprofessional  
 
2D - Maria Courtemanche   Dana Hurwitz 
Susie Barney-Paraprofessional  
 
2F - Nancy Chapdelaine   Heather Lussier 
Achieve:  
 
   Specialists: 
Christine DeFelice - Teacher   Third Grade:   Mary Sieling - Speech 
Pat Siciliano-Paraprofessional   3A – Leslie Spuria   Cathy Zayka - Speech 
Laurene Broden-  
 
3B - Janet Marshall   Sue Richards - Phys. Therap. 
Paraprofessional  
 
3C - Susan Diamantopoulos   Suzanne Saven - School Psych. 
Terri Green-Paraprofessional   3D - Nicholette Dumont   Jane Dusek - COTA 
Darlene Caron-Paraprofessional   3E - Danielle Celona   Maggie Porpora - Occup. Therap. 
Laurie Xarras-Paraprofessional   
 
  Jamie Mobed - Augment. Spec. 
Kelly Waterman-Paraprofessional   Physical Education/Health:   
 
 
  Gen Nass   
 
Kindergarten: 
K1 – Lisa Stone - Teacher   Art/Library:    
 
 
Cafeteria: 
Kirsten Snape- Paraprofessional     Lori MacDougall   Nadine Lorenzen - Cafeteria Mgr. 
K2 – Maribeth Ford - Teacher      Claudette LaChance 
Cinny Mobley-Paraprofessional   Music:   Karolyn Braman 
K3 – Sheila Bilottac - Teacher   Deborah Smith   Cheryl Ewen 
Julie Drake-Paraprofessional      
 K4 – Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher      Custodians: 
Monique Mola -Paraprofessional   
 
  Richard Krafve 
K5-Nancy Murray-Teacher            Karen McNamara 
Amy Raffaele-Paraprofessional   
 
  
 
===PAGE 103===
103 
TURKEY HILL MIDDLE SCHOOL 2014-2015 
Turkey Hill Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that 
support students‟ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-
motivated, creative, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open 
honest communication.   The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school 
embraces the philosophy of educating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This 
philosophy is a means by which all students become positive community members that possess the skills 
to be successful in high school. Turkey Hill Middle School is in its third year of servicing students in 
grades four through seven.  
 
PERCENT OF STUDENTS SCORING IN THE ADVANCED/PROFICIENT RANGE 
Grade Subject THMS State 
4 ELA 54% 54% 
4 Math 55% 52% 
5 ELA 72% 64% 
5 Math 72% 61% 
5 Sci/Tech 66% 53% 
6 ELA 75% 68% 
6 Math 79% 60% 
7 ELA 83% 72% 
7 Math 70% 50% 
In reviewing the results of the 2014 Spring M.C.A.S. tests, in all tested content areas at all grade levels, 
we consistently produced scores that are at or above the state average in percentage of students who fall in 
the advanced and proficient range, in some cases, 20% over the state average. Although we are proud of 
our students‟ performance, we continue to analyze data in our monthly results faculty meetings designed 
to improve our instruction for all students. Our faculty has identified areas of improvement based upon 
the data and implemented strategies to improve their instructional practices that will help students 
succeed.   
For the second straight year, Turkey Hill Middle School fourth grade teachers continue to utilize and 
acknowledge the benefits of an interdisciplinary teaming model.  This model permits teachers to work 
together in teams of two or three in order to provide focused instruction in the areas of reading and 
mathematics. Our specially designed teaming model allows students to remain with their homeroom 
teacher for the majority of the day, but designates a reading, writing, and mathematics teacher on each 
team. Teachers can develop expertise as content area specialists and the administration team provides 
specific professional development in each focus area for continuous improvement and growth. This form 
of teaming also allows us to create more common experiences at the grade level through unit planning 
and shared assessments. 
Additionally, teaming helps prepare students for an increased level of expectations in reading, math, and 
writing when entering the fourth grade, while continuing to be sensitive to the social and emotional needs 
of this population. 
 
===PAGE 104===
104 
We continue to utilize intervention and power blocks during the school day to meet the needs of each 
individual student. These blocks of instructional time that have been built into our master schedule allow 
teachers time to work with students at their own individual skill level.  The philosophy is to challenge 
students who are high academic achievers as well as strengthen skills for students who have identified 
weaknesses. Teachers are able to work with students in a small group to answer individual questions or 
provide more individualized support.  We design this support model to allow students to feel more 
confident, thus, perform better in the classroom.  We will continue to refine our intervention block times 
to best meet the needs of our students.  
 
Turkey Hill Middle School continues to offer enrichment blocks for all students. Enrichment classes 
provide students a block of time in which they receive instruction in the areas of developmental health 
and guidance. Our Second step developmental guidance program is now consistent in grades four through 
seven and units focus on healthy decision making, empathy and communication as well  as bullying 
prevention to meet the intricate social needs of our middle school students.  
  
Students also receive instruction in physical education, art, library media, and music classes that allows 
them to explore their strengths and talents. This year, fourth and fifth grade students have been 
participating in a word processing enrichment class to improve their keyboarding skills. Students also 
have the opportunity to sign up for and participate in band and chorus during this block. This enrichment 
block is in addition to the traditional special area classes students receive, and this block offers students 
additional physical movement throughout the day, additional opportunities for hands on activities and 
more exposure to the arts, theatre and technology throughout the school day.  
We make a positive impact on the students we serve by offering a variety of different programs developed 
to promote social and emotional growth, self-awareness, and community service. This year we have 
refined and refreshed our utilization of responsive classroom and Developmental Design programs to 
deliver our social emotional curriculum. Students meet with teachers in small groups to teach social 
responsibility and problem solving, as well as developing empathy and promoting positive self-esteem. 
Our seventh grade students are participating in themes such as embracing and respecting diversity and 
grades four and five students were experiencing themes developed through our second step guidance 
curriculum. We also incorporated an academic choice time for students in grades four and five. This is a 
time developed for students to explore different interests or experiences or utilize time to complete 
assignments that required additional time.  
We also utilize best practices such as peer mediation and the Big Sibs program to foster and develop 
positive peer leadership skills and effective peer mentoring.  All of the social emotional programs have 
been developed to allow students to showcase their talents and abilities, grow and improve as individuals, 
and promote community outreach for the younger generation. 
 
Turkey Hill Middle school continues to provide educational services and support that ensures student 
success and promotes lifelong learning and responsible community membership. The key components to 
our success is our talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and 
community who support our teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through 
their commitment to learning. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Timothy Santry 
Principal  
===PAGE 105===
105 
Turkey Hill Middle School 
Faculty Staff/Roster 
2014-2015 
            Administration/Nurse 
 
Grade 4 Team  
                 Timothy Santry Principal Erin Blanchette White  
                 Heidi Champagne Asst. Principal Gina Cote White  
                 Laurie Cooney Adm. Secretary Charlotte Letendre Blue  
                 Leah Megan Nurse Lynn Marabello Blue  
              Guidance 
 
Heather Witham Blue  
                 Gail Okerman Grades 4 & 5 Grade 5 Team  
                 Cheryl Nelson Grades 6 & 7 Lynn Major Blue  
              Special Areas 
 
Susan Reardon Blue  
              Steve Archambault Music, 118 Lisa LeBlanc Blue  
              Steve Kyajohnian PE Sherri Borreson White  
              Sandy Laserte PE Rhonda Connery White  
              Robin Warren Art, 114 Grade 6 Team  
              Victoria Whipple Library, 108 Kristine Bassett White  
              Learning Ctr./SPED  Emily Clarke                   Melanie Pouliot White  
                Elena Oksanish SLP Beth Arsenault Red  
                Amy Jones Gr. 4 Teacher Jeff Cournoyer Red  
                Maura Lizek Gr. 5 Teacher 
  
 
                Linda Papadopoulos Gr. 6 Teacher            Red 
                 Melanie Mobley Gr. 7 Teacher Grade 7 Team  
                Amy Harrington Gr. 4 Paraprofessional Natalie Davulis White  
                Jerianne Kelley Paraprofessional Dawn Grebinar White  
                Kerry Roder Gr. 5  Paraprofessional   Timothy Sheasgreen Red  
                Judy Barone Gr. 6  Paraprofessional Joanne Deming Red  
                Heather Morse Gr. 6  Paraprofessional Annica Scott Red  
                Marlene Wiita Gr. 7 Paraprofessional Achieve:  
 
 
                Tina Stateler  1:1 Paraprofessional Jaime Lyons Teacher  
                Sandra Sheehy 1:1 Paraprofessional Susan Beddia Paraprofessional  
                Judith Pierce Wilson Tutor Mary Madrigal  Paraprofessional  
  
Brittany McGuirl Teacher  
  
Karen Smith Paraprofessional  
  
Debra Hitchcock 
Nina Sobecky 
Paraprofessional 
Paraprofessional  
  David Burroughs Paraprofessional  
Cafeteria:                                                                     Custodial:                                                                         
Judy Haley                                                                           Jeri Sampson 
Sarah Rucker                                                                       Robby Comeau 
Donna Cameron                                                                  Howard Hargreaves 
Joan Newell 
===PAGE 106===
106 
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL   
Lunenburg High School has been a hub for academic and social activity in 2014 -2015.  As time 
has gone on, there is much more of a comfort le vel and stability in our grade 8 -12 community.  
This year, we oriented 128 eighth grade students, three teachers, and four staff members to our 
building and school culture.  With the assistance of 50 student leaders, we successfully 
transitioned the eighth grade students into the LHS culture by having an eighth orientation on the 
first day of school .  We opened the year, as we do every year, with a guest speaker from the 
Worcester County District Attorney‟s Office to discuss responsible Internet use, Facebook, cyber-
bullying and Internet safety with our incoming students and parents.   
 
NEASC ACCREDITATION 
Lunenburg High School is in the process of completing a Five Year Report for the Commission 
on Public Secondary Schools of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges.  In 2010, 
the Commission recommended that the school receive continued accreditation in the Association. 
The Commission's decision was based upon review of an evaluation report prepared by a visiting 
committee in April 2010.  The Two Year Progress Report, submitted in January, 2013 received 
high marks from the Commission reviewing our submission. 
 
While the Commission lauded LHS in many areas, the Commission warned LHS in three areas 
and asked for a Special Progress Report to be comple ted.  Of major concern were issues with the 
facility and meeting 21 st century learning expectations.  The Commission stated that the physical 
plant significantly limits the school‟s ability to meet the educational needs of students. There is an 
expectation to develop both a short - and long -term plan to fund and address the significant 
facilities concerns including inf rastructure and wiring issues, roof and window issues,  limited 
handicap accessibility and inadequate space.  In regards to curriculum, the co mmission 
recommended the further development of a standard template to clearly articulate school -wide 
expectations for student learning. 
 
As part of the Special Progress Report, the leadership team was charged with addressing the 
recommendations that were made by the Commission.  There are four highlighted 
recommendations in the Commission‟s report and three additional recommendations identified 
through a Special Progress Report.   One of the “completed” recommendations was due to  the 
fact that on January 7, 2014 Lunenburg voters supported the design of a grade 6 -12, middle/high 
school building project, at a Special Town Meeting.  On January 11, 2014, the town of Lunenburg 
voted to approve a ballot proposal to build a new middle/high school.  Voters cast 1,4 14 votes in 
favor of the project and only 543 votes were in opposition to the project, in the special election.  
The total cost of the project is $72,975,321.  The leadership team reworked the school -wide 
learning expectations so that they are aligned with the Common Core State Standards.  The report 
was submitted to the Commission on February 4, 2014. Lunenburg High School is currently 
working on Core Values and Beliefs about student learning, which will be adopted by LHS once 
the process is complete. 
 
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of fundraising 
and collection endeavors. In the fall, three staff members were involved in a fundraiser to raise 
money for the Lunenburg Food Pantry .  Money was collected during lunch and the staff member 
who raised the most money, kissed a pig.  Jim Lat tanzi, from Hollis Hills Farm, brought in the 
pig for the Thanksgiving rally.  Fun was had by all, and all of the proceeds were donated for the 
holiday season. 
 
===PAGE 107===
107 
Lunenburg High School received a generous donation in the amount of $500 from Mr. Mike‟s 
Mobil in Lunenburg, MA.  The grant is to be used toward STEM initiatives at the high school.  
We are in the process of purchasing a new robot for our Robotics class.   
 
In March, the National Honor Society will be having its annual Blood Drive.  Students sixteen 
and over will be able to participate in the Blood Drive with parent permission. 
 
MCAS RESULTS 
LHS again showed improvement on yearly MCAS results, r eflecting professional development, 
focus on refining instructional and assessment practices, curriculum work and hard work by 
students and teachers.   
Lunenburg High School – 2014 MCAS Results (Grade 8) 
 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Average (Adv/Pro) 
ELA 92% 79% 
Math 66% 52% 
Science/Technology 38% 42% 
 
Lunenburg High School - 2013 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Rank Percentile in State 
ELA 96% 116 of 358 Top  32% 
Math 87% 130 of 358 Top 36% 
Science/Technology 91% 53 of 358 Top 15% 
 
Using combined percentage bands of the advanced and proficient range, eighth grade students 
scored 92% on the ELA test.  In Mathematics, 66% of eighth grade students scored 
advanced/proficient.  In Science/Technology, 38% of eigh th grade  students scored 
advanced/proficient.  Curriculum and instruction are a focus for us this year in the area of Science 
in the eighth grade. 
 
Using combined percentage bands of the advanced and proficient range, LHS tenth grade students 
scored 96% on  the ELA test.  In Mathematics, tenth grade students scored 87% 
advanced/proficient.  In Science/Technology/Engineering, tenth grade students scored 91% 
advanced/proficient.  We are extremely proud of our students and teachers for their continued 
improvement, and we will work to move all students to the level of proficiency as measured by 
MCAS and our goal of college and career ready as they move through our curriculum.   
 
We were also very pleased to learn that 35 seniors at Lunenburg High School received t he state‟s 
John and Abigail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose 
MCAS performance puts them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must 
either score Advanced on one exam and Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English 
and Math exams.     
 
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
Homecoming was once again a great town-wide celebration, culminating with a beautiful parade 
complete with floats representing all four high school classes.  While the eighth grade did not 
have a float in the parade, they did participate in the Homecoming celebration.  Many of our 
sports teams qualified for tournament and district play, and several school records in track were 
shattered by our talented student-athletes.  Mock trial, Latin club, marching band, jazz band and  
===PAGE 108===
108 
the math team represented LHS in numerous competitions; the 49th annual Competitive Class 
Plays delighted the audience, and the school-wide play, Parfumerie, was well received. This 
spring, LHS will present, the musical, Guys and Dolls.   The Pops and Senior Showcase are 
scheduled for the spring.    
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
National Honor Society successfully supported the “Giftmart” drive during the holidays, helping 
to provide joy to needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies.  The World 
Hunger Task Force will be raising money through Penny Wars this spring.  The mone y will be 
donated toward the fight against hunger.  Also, this winter, one of our students participated in 
Project 351.  He spent the day in Boston with hundreds of eighth grade students, giving back to 
the community.   
In March, SADD will be bringing in a  guest speaker, Kevin Brooks .  He is part of the Drive to 
Save Lives campaign.  The presentation will be sponsored by SADD and Miles for Myles. 
CURRICULUM 
The staff at Lunenburg High School focused their professional development activities in 2014 -
2015 working on curriculum development, curriculum mapping, District -Determined Measures, 
and development of Core Values and Beliefs.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Brian Spadafino, Principal 
===PAGE 109===
109 
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2014-2015 
 
Principal Brian Spadafino Adm. Assistant       Tina Cooney 
Assistant Principal Robert McGrath Secretary        Deb Aro 
Nurse Carolyn Finch   
 
Math   Language Arts  
Sarah Sabatini Dept. Head Mary Foyle Dept. Head 
Andrew Cantatore  Erinanne Snyder  
Jennifer Miller  Timothy Macuga  
Eric Short  Michael Hannigan  
Robert Truax  Stephanie Lizotte  
Science  Social Studies  
Robert Hill Dept. Head Anna Keegan Dept. Head 
Mitchel Friedman  Warren Stevenson  
Craig Pingsterhaus  Timothy Normandin  
Jennifer Biery  Hailee Martin  
Dawn Gearin  Timothy Macuga  
Richard Cohen    
Joanne Poirier Greenhouse Asst. 
 
Unified Arts  
Foreign Language  Alexis Pukaite Dept. Head 
Sharon Kimball Dept. Head Steven Boone  
Jessica Beardmore  Dana Belair  
Tamara Yourk  Caryn Wardwell  
Jimena Punales-Santiago  Rhonda Malatos  
Peggy Proctor  Karyn Giuliani  
Lynn Radford  Nathan Diperri  
  Steven Kyajohnian  
Special Services  Peter McCauliff AD 
Nicole Kromer Dept. Head Darlene Steele Athletic Secretary 
Joshua Koziol 
Brianna Lively 
Michael Buswell                              
  
Media Specialist 
Pamela Vallee 
 
Kimberly Jones 
Harold Ogilvie 
Jamie Millett 
   
 
Erica Hardy 
 
Speech/Lang. 
  
 
===PAGE 110===
110 
 
Paraprofessionals: 
  
Guidance 
 
Matthew Noll  Karma Tousignant Dept. Head 
Lizabeth Johnson  Susan Caviaoli  
Alex Moore  Phil McMurray  
Dawn McGuirl  Penney Borneman Guidance Secretary 
John McGuirk    
Joseph Adamowicz  Cafeteria  
Maribeth Ulf  Patti Pichnarcik Café Manager 
Kelly Arciprete  Carol Hamilton  
Lisa Szocik-Maillet  Stella Carlson  
Donna Lavoie  Eleni Tsiakalos  
Joseph Balboni 
8th Grade Teachers                                                                                                                                                                         
   
Sharon McCullah    
Linda Collette  Custodians  
Meredith Cormier  Timothy deBettencourt Head Custodian 
Amy Raboin  Marc St. Jean  
Martha Sullivan  James Vaillancourt  
Mary Whitaker    
    
 
===PAGE 111===
111 

===PAGE 112===
112 
===PAGE 113===
113 

===PAGE 114===
114 

===PAGE 115===
115 

===PAGE 116===
116 

===PAGE 117===
117 

===PAGE 118===
118 

===PAGE 119===
119 

===PAGE 120===
120 

===PAGE 121===
121 

===PAGE 122===
122 

===PAGE 123===
123 

===PAGE 124===
124 

===PAGE 125===
125 

===PAGE 126===
126 

===PAGE 127===
127 

===PAGE 128===
128 

===PAGE 129===
129 

===PAGE 130===
130 
===PAGE 131===
131 
TOWN CLERK 
===PAGE 132===
132 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND US DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND FOR THE 
SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF TOWN, NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN ELIMINATED AND 
INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURANCES OF EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE A ND DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR. 
 
DURING 2014 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTHS – 86  DEATHS – 71  MARRIAGES - 38 
===PAGE 133===
133 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING JANUARY 7, 2014 
 
The Moderator declared a quorum present and called the meeting to order at 7:02 PM in the Lunenburg 
High School Auditorium. Due to the large turnout a recess was called to allow voters to check in. Meeting 
resumed at 7:26 p.m. The Moderator led us in the Pledge of Allegiance and reminded attendees of the 
rules of procedure. 
 
ARTICLE 1.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds, a sum 
of money to be expended under the direction of the School Building Committee for construction of a new 
Lunenburg Middle/High School, designed for approximately 820 students in Grades 6 – 12, to be located 
at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462, which school facili ty shall have an anticipated 
useful life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least 50 years, and for 
which the Town may be eligible for a school construction grant from the Massachusetts School Building 
Authority (“MSBA”). The MSBA‟s grant program is a non -entitlement, discretionary program based on 
need, as determined by the MSBA, and any project costs the Town incurs in excess of any grant approved 
by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the To wn. Any grant that the Town of 
Lunenburg may receive from the MSBA for the Project shall not exceed the lesser of (1) fifty -nine point 
eleven percent (59.11%) of eligible , approved project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total 
maximum grant a mount determined by the MSBA. Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 -0. 
Finance Committee recommends approval, 5 -1. VOTED (2/3rds declare d) to appropriate by borrowing 
$72,975,321.00 and to meet this appropriation the Board of Selectmen and Town Treasurer are authorized 
to borrow said sum under M.G.L. chapter 44, or pursuant to any other enabling authority. The Town  of 
Lunenburg acknowledges that the MSBA‟s grant program is a non -entitlement, discretionary program 
based on need, as determined by the MSBA , and any project costs the Town of Lunenburg incurs in 
excess of any grant approved by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of the Town 
of Lunenburg; provided further that any grant that the Town of Lunenburg may receive from the MS BA 
for the Project shall not exceed the lesser of (1) fifty -nine point eleven percent (59.11%) of eligible, 
approved project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the total maximum grant amount determined 
by the MSBA; provided that any appropriation her eunder shall be subject to and contingent upon an 
affirmative vote of the Town to exempt the amounts required for the payment of interest and principal on 
said borrowing from the limitations on taxes imposed by M.G.L. 59, Section 21C (Proposition 2 ½); and  
that the amount of borrowing authorized pursuant to this vote shall be reduced by any grant amount set 
forth in the Project Funding Agreement that may be executed between the Town of Lunenburg and the 
MSBA. 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to ame nd the Town‟s Zoning Bylaw by adding a new Section 
9.0, entitled T emporary Moratorium on Medical M arijuana Treatment Centers/Registered Marijuana 
Dispensaries, that would provide as follows, and further to amen d the Table of Contents to add Section 
9.0, “T emporary Moratorium on Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered Marijuana 
Dispensaries:” 
 
Section 9.0.1. Purpose  
 
By vote at the State election on November 6, 2012, the voters of the commonwealth approved a law 
regulating the cultivation, distribution, possession and use of marijuana for medical purposes. The law 
provides that it is effective on January 1, 2013.  On May 8, 2013, the State Department of Public Health 
promulgated Regulations that became effective on May 24, 2013. Currently under the Zoning Bylaw, a 
Medical Marijuana Treatment Center, identified in the State Regulations as a Registered Marijuana 
Dispensary, is not a permitted use in the Town of Lunenburg.  The State Regulations provide guidance to 
the Town in regulating medical marijuana, including Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered  
===PAGE 134===
134 
Dispensary, is not a permitted use in the Town of Lunenburg.  The State Regulations provide 
guidance to the Town in regulating medical marijuan a, including Medical Marijuana Treatment 
Centers/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries.  The regulation of medical marijuana raises novel 
and complex legal, planning, and public safety issues and the Town needs time to study and 
consider the regulation of such  use and address such novel and complex issues, as well as to 
address the potential impact of the State regulations on local zoning and to undertake a planning 
process to consider amending the Zoning Bylaw regarding regulation of medical marijuana 
treatment centers and other uses related to the regulation of medical marijuana.  The Town 
intends to adopt a temporary moratorium on the use of land and structures in the Town for 
Medical Marijuana Treatment Center/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries so as to allow the Town 
sufficient time to engage in a planning process to address the effects of such structures and uses 
in the Town and to enact bylaws in a manner consistent with sound land use planning goals and 
objectives. 
 
Section 9.0.2. Definition 
 
“Medical Mari juana Treatment Center” shall mean a not -for-profit entity, as defined by 
Massachusetts law only, registered by the Department of Public Health as a Registered 
Marijuana Dispensary, that acquires, cultivates, possesses, processes (including development of 
related products such as food, tinctures, aerosols, oils or ointments), transfers, transports, sells, 
distributes, dispenses, or administers marijuana, products containing marijuana, related supplies, 
or educational materials to qualifying patients or their personal caregivers. 
 
Section 9.0.3. Temporary Moratorium 
 
For the reasons set forth above and notwithstanding any other provisions of the Zoning B ylaw to 
the contrary, the Town hereby adopts a temporary moratorium on the use of land or structures for 
a Medical Marijuana Treatment Center/Registered Marijuana Dispensary.  The moratorium shall 
be in effect through December 31, 2014 or until such time as the Town adopts Zoning Bylaw 
amendments that regulate Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered Mari juana 
Dispensaries and related uses, whichever occurs earlier.  During the moratorium period, the 
Town shall undertake a planning process to address the potential impacts of medical marijuana in 
the Town, consider the State Regulations and related uses, an d shall consider adopting new 
Zoning Bylaws to address the impact and operation of Medical Marijuana Treatment 
Centers/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries and related uses;  or take any action relative thereto.  
Board of Selectmen recommends disapproval.  Fi nance Committee – no recommendation.  
Planning Board recommends approval 5-1.  ARTICLE 2 was DEFEATED 
 
Special Town Meeting adjourned at 9:30 P.M. 
===PAGE 135===
135 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
The Moderator declared a quorum present and called the meeting to order  at 9:00 a.m. in the Lunenburg 
High School auditorium.  The Moderator noted that the warrant was duly posted, after the pledge of 
allegiance the rules governing town meeting were explained. The following retirees were recognized for 
their years of service to the Schools: Donna Lee Duquette, Helena Louzonis, and Laura Rudy. 
 
ARTICLE 1.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44  §53E1/2 
the Ambulance Billing revolving fund. The Purpose of this fund will be to cover the cost associated with 
compensating third party advanced life support companies and third party billing companies that contract 
and supply services to the town. Five p er cent (5%) of the total revenue generated by ambulance services 
rendered and 100% of the revenue generated by Advanced Life Support services rendered shall be 
deposited into said revolving fund. The proceeds of said Revolving Fund shall be expended by th e Fire 
Department without further appropriation for the sole purpose of reimbursing the aforementioned 
companies for services rendered to the town; expenditures from the revolving fund may not exceed 
$50,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of h e Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee  or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Fire Chief) Board of Selectmen Recommends 
Approval, 4-0. Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5-0. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44,  §53E1/2 
the Timber Rights revolving fund, such fund to be credited with the  proceeds of sale by the Conservation 
Commission of the rights to harvest timber; funds in the account to be expended  for the acquisition of 
land for conservation purposes and associated costs of such acquisitions, including but not limited to 
appraisals and payment of accrued taxes; such funds may also be expended for improvements on land 
already under the custody and c ontrol of the Conservation Commission; the Conservation Commission 
may expend such funds without further appropriation; expenditures from the revolving fund may not 
exceed $10,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Fi nance 
Committee; or  take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Conservation Commission) Board of 
Selectmen Recommends Approval, 4 -0. Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5 -0. VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote to re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44,  §53E1/2, 
the Custodial Special Detail Revolving Fund, for the purpose of paying special detail salaries for outside 
functions. Charges and money received from outside organizations in connection with this program are to 
be deposited in said revolving fund and expended by the Lunenburg School Committee without further 
appropriation for the sole purpose of paying personnel for hours worked. Said revolving account 
expenditures shall not exceed $25,000 per year  without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and 
Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by School Committee) Board of 
Selectmen Recommends Approval, 4 -0. Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5 -0. VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44,  §531/2, 
the Green Thumb Revolving Fund, to support the Green Thumb Program at Lunenburg High School. 
Fees, charges, and money received from sales of items in c onnection with this program are to be 
deposited in this Revolving Fund Account and e xpended for the operation of this program by the 
Lunenburg School Committee without further appropriation; said revolving account expenditures shall 
not exceed $20,000 per year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or 
take any other action  relative thereto. (Submitted by School Committee) Board of Selectmen 
Recommends Approval, 4 -0. Finance Committee Recommends Approva l, 5-0. VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT 
===PAGE 136===
136 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44,   
§53E1/2, the Library Revolving Fund, to receive funds from library fines and penalties, donations and 
bequests up to $12,000, said funds to be expended by  the Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library for the 
purchase of library and information materials and document information and electronic data delivery. 
Expenditures from the revolving fund may not exceed $12,000 during the fiscal year without the approval 
of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by Library Director) Board of Selectmen Recommends Approval, 4 -0. Finance Committee Recommends 
Approval, 5-0. VOTED UNNANIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44,  §531/2, 
the Council on Aging/Montachusett Area Regional Transit (MART) Elderly Transportation Revolving 
Fund; the operation of said account shall be conducted by the Council on Agin g, and the Senior Center 
Director; funds in this account shall be spent on the dispatch, o peration, maintenance and record keeping 
of the MART vehicles for the elderly transportation program all receipts resulting from MART 
reimbursements shall be credited  to this account; said revolving account expenditures shall not exceed 
$45,000 per year without the prior approval of the Board of Selectmen and the Finance Committee; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Council on Aging) Board of Selectmen Recommends 
Approval, 4-0. Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5-0. VOTED UANNIMOUS CONSENT 
 
ARTICLE 7.  To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town 
Officers and Committees; or take any other action re lative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) 
Board of Selectmen Recommends Approval, 4 -0. Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. 
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from avai lable funds, a 
sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
the Town Accountant) No unpaid bills at this time. Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee 
recommend to pass over. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY t o appropriate from Free Cash, the sum of $570 for 
payment of prior year expense. Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. 
 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds all sums of 
money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town‟s FY2014 Budget, under Article 19 of the 
May 4, 2013 Annual Town meeting; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendation at Town  Meeting. VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $153,993;  to transfer from Article 12 of the 
May 5, 2007 Annual Town Meeting, the sum of $2,439; to transfer from Article 11 of the May 9, 1998 
Annual Town Meeting the sum of $1,500; and to  transfer f rom the FY2014  Budget, from Line 3, 
Interest/Temporary Loans, the sum of $16,400, and from Line 4, Liability Insurance the sum of $21,147, 
and from Line 5, Worker‟s Compensation, the sum of $9,255;and to transfer from Line 6, Health 
Insurance, the sum of $80,000, and from Line 7, Life Insurance, the sum of $7,000, and from Line 11, 
Historical Commission, the sum of $850, and from Line 13, Reserve Fund, the sum of $50,000, and from 
Line 13A, Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of $6,503, and from  Line 14, Unemployment Expense, the sum 
of $4,332, and from Line 72, Recycling, the sum of $9,641, and  to Line 32, Legal Expense, the sum of 
$10,000, and to Line 42, Police  Lock Up, the sum of $8,000, and to Line 43, Injury Leave , the sum of 
$13,407; and to Line 46, Fire Department, the sum of $16,000; and to Line 73, Snow Removal, the sum 
 
===PAGE 137===
137 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
of $229,000; and to Line 75, Veteran‟s Benefits, the sum of $37,409; and to Line 80, Monty Tech 
Assessment, the sum of $49,244 to amend amounts voted under Article 19 of the May 4 2013 Annual 
Town Meeting. Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. 
 
ARTICLE 10.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the fires year of the FY15, FY16 & FY17 Lu nenburg Professional Firefighters 
PFFM, Local 4358A Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 – June 30, 2017; or take any 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to 
make recommendation at Town Meeting. PASSED OVER Article 10. Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee recommend approval to pass over. 
 
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum 
of money to fund the first year of the  FY13, FY14 & FY 15 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 
1, 2012 o June 30, 2015 with Public Employees Local Union 39 of the Laborers‟ International Union of 
North America; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Se lectmen 
and Finance Committee to make recommendation at Town Meeting. PASSED OVER Article 11. Board 
of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval to pass over. 
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from ava ilable funds, a 
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY14, FY15 & FY16 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated 
July 1, 2013 – June 30, 2016 with the Public Employees Local Union 39 of the Laborer‟ International 
Union of North America, Middle Managers‟ Unit; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendation at Town 
Meeting. PASSED OVER Article 12. Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval 
to pass over. 
 
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum 
of money to fund the first year of the FY15, FY16 & FY17 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 
1, 2013 – June 30, 2017 with AFSCME, Council 9 3, Municipal Employees Union; or take any other 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to 
make recommendation at Town Meeting. PASSED OVER Article 13. Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee recommend approval to pass over. 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds  or 
borrow a sum of money for the FY2015 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee 
Report, or take any action  relative thereto. (Submitted by the Capital Planning Committee) Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval of $1,114,152. 4 -0 Finance Committee recommends approval of 
$1,114,152. 6 -0.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to raise and appropriate the sum of $621,753.74 and to 
transfer the sum of $43.80 from Article 8 of the May 3, 2008 Annual Town Meeting; and $290.01 from 
Article  13 of the May 1, 2010 Annual Town Meeting; and $12,714.57 from Article 19 of the May 7, 
2011 Annual Town Meeting; an $36,033.60 from Article 16 of th e May 5, 2012 Annual Town Meeting; 
and $18,316.28 from Article 14 of the May 4, 2013 Annual Town Meeting; and borrow the sum of 
$425,000.00 for a total appropriation of $1,114,152 to fund the FY15 Capital Plan, as appearing in the 
Capital Planning Report.  
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available fund or 
borrow a sum of money for the purpose of acquiring for conservation and passive recreation purposes, by 
gift, purchase or eminent domain a portion of a certain property known as the Lane Property shown as  
===PAGE 138===
138 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
 Assessor‟s Map 21, Parcel 17, off Holman Street said portion consisting of 168 acres, more or less; and if 
by borrowing, to authorize the Treasurer with the approval of the Board of Selectmen to borrow s aid sum 
under Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 44, Section 7(3) or any other enabling authority and issue 
bonds or notes therefor; that said land be conveyed to said Town of Lunenburg under the provisions of 
Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section  8C, as it may hereafter be amended and other pertinent 
Massachusetts statutes relating to conservation, to be managed and controlled by the Conservation 
Commission of the Town of Lunenburg, and that the Conservation Commission be authorized with the 
approval of the Board of Selectmen, to e nter into all agreements an exe cute any and all instruments as 
may be necessary on the part of the Town to effect such acquisition and to obtain any grants or 
reimbursements for such acquisition; provided however, that th e funds appropriated hereunder shall not 
be expended unless the Town receives approval for a LAND Grant from the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, Division of Conservation Services pursuant to G.L. Chapter 132A, Section 11 to 
reimburse the Town for a portion of the costs of acquisition of the property, or to take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by Open Space Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 4 -0. 
Finance Committee recommends approval 6-0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY   
 
ARTICLE 16.  To see i f the Town will vote to authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44 Section 
53E, a Student Transportation Offset Receipt Fund, to receive funds for Student Transportation Fees up to 
$31,000, said funds to be used by the School Department to offset the cost  of bus transportation; or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends 
approval, 3-0-1. Finance Committee recommends approval, 6-0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to  appropriate to or from the Stabilization Fund; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen recommends 
appropriating to the Stabilization Fund the sum of $74,729. 4 -0. Finance Committee recommends 
appropriating to the Stabilization Fund the sum of $74,729. 6 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to 
appropriate the sum of $74,729 from Free Cash to be transferred to the Stabilization Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from ava ilable funds a 
sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY2015 and to fix the salaries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town 
Manager, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval of $29,079,384. 4-0. Finance Committee recommends approval of $29,079,384. 6 -
0. Refer to Pages 21 -24 for more detail. VOTED to raise and appropriate $28,180,771, transfer  $10,868 
from Septic Receipts Reserved for Appropriation, transfer $23,525 from the Sewer Enterprise Fund, 
transfer $770,439 from the Sewer Enterprise Betterment Revenue, transfer $31,000 from the Student 
Transportation Offset Receipt Fund, and transfer $6 2,781 from the Water Betterment Revenue to defray 
the charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Yea r 2015 of $29,079,384, and to fix the salaries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town. Budget voted as follows:  
 
 
===PAGE 139===
139 
FY 2015 Omnibus Budget  
   
Line  Account VOTED 
No.  FY 2015 
   
 Maturing Debt & Interest  
1 Principal-Loans $         2,079,853.00 
2 Interest -Loans $            720,264.00 
3 Interest-Temporary Loans $            169,938.00 
3A Admin Fees-Loans $                8,001.00 
3B Bond Issuance Costs $                         - 
   
 Total Maturing Debt $         2,978,056.00 
   
   
 Unclassified  
4 Liability Insurance $            203,200.00 
5 Workers Compensation $              58,942.00 
6 Group Health Insurance $         1,596,566.00 
7 Group Life Insurance $              21,756.00 
8 Physicals $                2,500.00 
9 Print Town Reports $                5,000.00 
10 Mont Reg Planning Assess $                3,120.00 
11 Historical Commission $                   500.00 
12 Band Concerts $                4,200.00 
13 Reserve Fund $              50,000.00 
13A Salary Reserve Fund $              43,000.00 
14 Unemployment Expense $              15,000.00 
14A Unemploy. Expense-Stab Fund $                         - 
15 Medicare - Town's Share $            213,285.00 
   
 Total Gen Gov Unclassified $         2,217,069.00 
   
 General Government  
16 Finance Committee Expense $                   850.00 
17 Annual Town Audit $              43,000.00 
18 Charter Review Committee $                           - 
19 Selectmen's Administration $              63,123.00 
20 Selectmen Salaries $                   500.00 
21 Town Manager Salary $            125,000.00 
22 Town Manager Expense $                5,250.00 
23 Town Accountant $            146,768.00 
24 Treasurer's Administration $              79,271.00 
25 Banking Charges $                   500.00 
26 Tax Collector's Admin $              79,879.00 
27 Assessor's Salaries $                           - 
28 Assessor's Administration $            146,436.00 
29 Technology Director $            147,595.00 
30 Legal Expense $            112,500.00 
31 Town Clerks Salary $              45,666.00 
Line  Account VOTED 
===PAGE 140===
140 
No.  FY 2015 
32 Town Clerk’s Administration  $              30,160.00  
33 Elections  $              16,905.00  
34 Registration & Census   $              12,906.00  
35 Planning Board  $              30,955.00  
36 Zoning Board of Appeals  $                3,275.00  
37 Conservation Commission  $              46,644.00 
 Total General Government  $         1,237,183.00  
   
 Central Purchasing  
38 Central Purchasing  $              52,950.00  
   
 Total Central Purchasing  $              52,950.00  
   
 Protection  
39 Police Department  $         1,267,069.00  
40 Police Lock Up  $              53,907.00  
41 Injury Leave  $                5,000.00  
42 Police/Fire Medical Expenses  $                5,000.00  
 Subtotal Police  $         1,330,976.00  
   
43 Fire Department  $            628,529.00  
43A Capital – Fire Dept.  $              20,000.00 
44 Fire Hydrant Expense  $              15,000.00  
45 Radio Equipment Mtc.  $              10,000.00  
 Subtotal Fire Department  $            673,529.00 
                 
46 Radio Watch  $            249,513.00  
 Subtotal Radio Watch  $            249,513.00 
     
47 Emergency Management  $                6,500.00 
   
48 Sealer of Weights & Measures  $                4,000.00 
49 Wiring Inspector   $              16,500.00  
50 Building Inspector  $            120,935.00  
51 Municipal Hearings Officer  $                          -  
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector  $              15,000.00  
53 Animal Control  $              24,330.00  
   
 Subtotal Other Protection  $            187,265.00  
   
 Total Protection  $         2,441,283.00  
   
 Health & Sanitation  
54 General Health Expense  $              32,628.00  
55 Nashoba Board of Health  $              21,967.00 
56 Nashoba Nursing  $                9,834.00  
57 Mental Health  $                         -    
58 Animal Inspector Salary  $                  600.00  
   $             55,788.00 
 Department of Public Works  
59 Highway Labor  $           381,867.00  
===PAGE 141===
141 
60 Highway OT  $               6,155.00  
 
61 General Highway Maintenance  $           371,799.00  
 
61A Capital - General Highway  $                        -  
 
62 Town Highway Garage   $               1,000.00  
63 Traffic Signs & Devices   $             27,000.00  
64 Vehicle Mtc. - Highway   $             67,817.00  
65 Vehicle Mtc. - Police   $             65,800.00  
66 Vehicle Mtc. - Fire   $             36,844.00             -    
67 Park Department   $             70,900.00  
68 Cemetery Department   $             48,730.00  
69 Tree Removal   $             17,000.00  
70 Snow Removal Expense   $           260,000.00  
 Total DPW   $        1,354,912.00 
   
 Facilities and Buildings  
71 Facilities & Grounds    $           349,134.00 
71A Capital – Facilities & Grounds    $                        -                  
     
72 
Public Buildings   $           241,620.00 
 Total Facilities & Buildings   $           590.754.00 
   
 Solid Waste/Recycle Program  
     
73 
Recycling Program   $           193,754.00            
     
 Total Solid Waste/Recycling   $           193,754.00 
 Public Assistance  
   74 Council on Aging     $            106,812.00 
 Subtotal C.O.A.     $            106,812.00  
   
  75 Veterans Benefits     $              17,500.00 
  76 Veteran’s Administration     $                4,250.00 
  77 Registrar of Vet’s Graves        $                   400.00 
  78 Memorial Day     $                   750.00 
   Subtotal Veterans     $              22,900.00 
     
   Total Assistance     $            129,712.00 
   
 Schools  
  79 School Department     $       16,687,431.00  
 
79A 
Unem. School –Stab/Free Cash     $                         - 
  80 Monty Tech Assessment     $            778,046.00  
  81 Vehicle Mtc - School     $                         - 
      
   Total Schools     $      17,465,477.00 
      
    Library     $                         - 
   82 Lunenburg Public Library     $           353,205.00 
           
 Total Library     $           353,205.00 
 TOTAL OMNIBUS     $      29,079,384.00 
===PAGE 142===
142 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to approve a Reorganization of the Land Use Departments as 
provided for in Article 5, Section 1(b) of the To wn‟s Charter, or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendation 
at Town Meeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to approve the Town Manager‟s Admin istrative 
Organization Plan creat ing the position of Land Use Director to coordinate the activities of all of the 
Boards and Departments involved in regulating land use and land development in the town. Board of 
Selectmen recommend approval. Finance Committee no recommendation. 
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds 
$285,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY2015, or take any other 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Boa rd of Selectmen recommends 
approval,, 4-0. Finance Committee recommends approval, 6-0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate 
from Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Revenues the sum of $285,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal 
Program. 
 
ARTICLE 21  To see if th e Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds 
$25,000 to operate the Water Department/Water Enterprise Fund for FY2015, or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recomme nds approval, 4 -0. 
Finance Committee recommends approval 6 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Water 
Enterprise Revenues the sum of $25,000 to operate the Water Department. 
 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfe r from available funds 
$814,242 to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY2015; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 4 -0. Finance 
Committee recommends approval, 6-0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Sewer Enterprise 
Revenues the sum of $814,242 to operate the Sewer Department. 
 
ARTICLE 23.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $25,000 from the Sale of Cemetery 
Lots account to be used for the care, improv ement  and embellishment of the Cemeteries; or to take any 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends 
approval 4-0. Finance Committee recommends approval, 6 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate 
the sum of $25,000 from the Sale of Cemetery Lots. 
 
ARTICLE 24.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Sewer Service Area Map, such revisions 
currently on file in the office of the Town Clerk and Board of Selectmen; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 4 -0. Finance 
Committee recommends approval, 6-0.  
 
 To change the map coloration to indicate only those areas inside and outside of the Sewer Service 
Area and Sewer Service Zones; and To remove Parcel ID 75-54 (243 White Street, Lunenburg), Parcel ID 
75-55 (683 Pearl Street, Fitchburg) and Parcel ID 75-58 (700 Pearl Street, Fitchburg) from the Lunenburg 
Sewer Service Area and Sewer Service Zone. VOTED UNAMIOUSLY 
 
 
 
===PAGE 143===
143 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
ARTICLE 25.  To see i f the Town will vote to appropriate by transfer from available funds, or by 
borrowing, a sum not to exceed $2,200,000.00 for the purpose of financing the design, permitting and 
construction of sewer collection systems as described in the   Comprehensive Wastewater Management 
Plan, prepared by Wright Pierce Engineering Consultants, dated March, 2010, and the Clean Water State 
Revolving Fund 2014 Project Evaluation Form, submitted in August 2013, in (1) the areas of Sunset 
Ave., Harris Ave., Lakeview Ave, Pine  Grove Rd., with connection to the sewer main on Prospect St., 
and (2) the areas of Pratt St., West St., and Rennie St., with connection to the sewer main on Whalom 
Rd., including the acquisition of land or interests in land relating thereto, legal and sur vey costs, and 
including without limitation all costs thereof as defined in Section 1 of Chapter 29C of the General Laws; 
and to fund this appropriation, to authorize the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of 
Selectmen to borrow up to $2,200,000 .00 and to issue bonds and notes therefor under Chapter 44 and/or 
Chapter 29C of the General Laws and that the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of 
Selectmen is authorized to borrow all or a portion of said amount from the Water Pollution Abate ment 
Trust established pursuant to said Chapter 29C; and in connection therewith the Town Treasurer and the 
Board of Selectmen are authorized to enter into a financing agreement and/or security agreement with the 
Trust and otherwise to contract with the Tr ust and the Department of Environmental Protection with 
respect to such financing and for any federal or state aid available for the project or for the financing 
thereof and to take any and all other action, deemed necessary or advisable for such purposes;  that such 
bonds or notes shall be general obligations of the Town, provided, however, that it is the intent of the 
Town that the principal and interest on such bonds or notes shall be paid, without further appropriation by 
the Town to the extent permitted  by law, from funds received by the Town through betterment and/or 
privilege fees imposed on abutters who benefit from the project; or take any other action relative 
thereto.  [Submitted by the Sewer Commission] Board of Selectmen recommends approval 4-0.  Finance 
Committee recommends approval, 6-0.   VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
  
ARTICLE  26.  To see if the Town will vote to amend Article XXV of the Town Bylaws, entitled Public 
Access Cable Committee, by deleting the existing bylaw and replacing it with the followin g; or take any 
other action relative thereto.  [Submitted by the Board of Selectmen]  Board of Selectmen recommends 
approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends approval, 6-0.  VOTED UNAIMOUSLY 
Article 1.  Establishment 
The name of the organization shall  be the Public Access Cable Committee, herein referred to as PACC.  
The Selectmen activated and appointed the PACC in July 2007 to assist with the development of 
Lunenburg TV Channels 8 & 9. 
Article 2.  Mission Statement 
The Committee was created for the purpose of establishing a local access TV Station operating on cable 
for the Town of Lunenburg.  PACC is to oversee programming in areas of public affairs, education, 
entertainment and town government.  The PACC shall be responsible for the formulation and 
promulgation of policy directives and guidelines for the operation of the PACC; provided, however, that  
===PAGE 144===
144 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize any member of the PACC, nor a majority of such 
members, to become involved in the day-to-day administration of the Lunenburg Public Access. 
Article 3.  Section intentionally deleted. 
Article 4.  Membership 
Section 1.  Number of Members.  PACC shall consist of  five- (5) members who shall be appointed by the 
Lunenburg Board of Selectmen from residents  of the Town of Lunenburg or full time students at 
Lunenburg High School. 
Section 2.  Term of Appointment.  The term shall be for three -(3) years or, in the case of vacancy, any 
portion of an unexpired term, so arranged that the term of office as nearly an equal number of members as 
is possible shall expire each year.  The above Term of Appointment shall be effective with the 
appointments by the Board of Selectmen commencing in fiscal year 2009. 
Section 4.  Composition of Membership.  Members shall reflect the makeup of the community at large.  
Any resident of the town or any Lunenburg High School student is eligible to submit his/ her name to the 
Lunenburg Selectmen for consideration to be appointed to PACC. 
Section 5.  Voting Power.  All duly appointed cur rent members of PACC shall have the right to vote on 
all issues. 
Section 6.  Resignation.  Members appointed by the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen shall resign in 
writing to the Board of Selectmen and PACC. 
Section 7.  Attendance.  Regular meeting attendance  is expected for all members of PACC.  In the event 
of three- (3) consecutive absences, except for the reason of health or extenuating circumstances as duly 
reported to the Chair in advance of the meeting, PACC may request resignation of that member throug h 
the appointing authority. 
Section 8.  Vacancies.  Vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Selectmen. 
Section 9.  Representations.  No member of PACC  shall make written or oral presentations for PACC 
unless authorized by a vote of PACC. 
Section 10.  No n-PACC Members.  PACC may appoint a Non -PACC member to act on PACC‟s behalf.  
In such a case, all written materials, oral presentations or communications from the Non -PACC member 
on behalf of PACC, will need to be approved by a vote of PACC prior to his/ h er  presentation or 
execution. 
Article 5.  Meetings 
Section 1.  Regular Meetings.  Regular meetings will be held as determined by the PACC with the time 
and place to be posted at Town Hall. 
===PAGE 145===
145 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
Section 2.  Special Meetings.  The Chair or a majority of PACC members may call for Special Meetings. 
Section 3.  Organizational Meeting.  The organizational meeting shall be held at the regularly scheduled 
monthly meeting after the start of each fiscal year. 
Section 4.  Open Meeting Law.  All meetings shall be posted an d conducted in compliance with the 
provisions of Chapter 39, Sections 23, 23A and 23B.  The meeting agenda shall be posted in accordance 
with the Massachusetts Open Meetings Law and all other applicable Town Bylaws. 
Section 5.  Quorum.  The presence of a s imple majority of the total membership, as defined in Article 4, 
Section 1 shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum. 
Article 6.  Officers. 
Section 1.  Officers.  The officers shall consist of a Chairman, Vice Chairman and Secretary as elect ed by 
the members. 
Section 2.  Election.  Election for officers shall take place at the PACC organizational meeting. 
Section 3.  Terms of Office.  Term of office for the officers shall be for one - (1) year, with no restrictions 
on re-election. 
Section 4.  Vacancy.  Any vacancy may be filled at a regular or special meeting of PACC.  It shall be for 
the unexpired term of the previous incumbent officer.  In the case of the Chair, the Vice -Chair shall fill 
the position of the Chair for the remainder of the unexpired term of the Chair. 
Section 5.  Duties of Officers.  Chair- the Chair shall be the chief executive officer and be subject to the 
direction of PACC.  The Chair or his/ her designee shall provide the agendas for meetings,  preside at 
meeting and orient new members.  The Chair or his/ her designee shall provide all PACC members a copy 
of the Open Meeting Law as required by state statute.  Vice-Chair- the Vice-Chair shall exercise all the 
functions of the Chair, during the absence or disability of the Chair, and when so acting, shall have all the 
powers and be subject to all restrictions of the Chair.  Secretary- the Secretary shall take the meeting 
minutes, post notices of upcoming meetings and provide minutes to PACC members.  He/ She shall post 
the meeting agenda in accordance with the Massachusetts Open Meetings Law and all other applicable 
Town Bylaws. 
Article 7.  Amendments.  The PACC may consider amendments or alterations to these by-Laws at either a 
regular or special PACC meeting.  In either case, n otification of the meeting and its purpose shall be 
given fourteen- (14) days prior to the assembly.  The notice shall include a summary of the proposed 
amendment, the full text of the proposed amendment or alteration, and a statement of the purpose of the  
proposed change.  The proposed amendment must be approved by a majority vote of PACC.  It will then 
be sent to the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen for approval, and if so approved, for insertion in the warrant 
and be submitted to the next Town Meeting for ap proval.  This protocol applies only to the PACC‟s 
ability to initiate changes to these bylaws, and is not intended to usurp the rights given to registered voters 
of the Town specified in MGL Chapter 39, Section 10. 
===PAGE 146===
146 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
 
Article 8.  Staff.  The Town Manager shal l appoint or hire staff as is necessary, to meet programming, 
content and/ or operational requirements.  The Town Manager will consult with the PACC and Program 
Director for their input prior to making such appointments. 
Article 9.  Other Provisions. 
Section 1.  Establishment of Policy and Procedures.  PACC may establish policy or procedure according 
to the following guidelines:  Such proposals must be presented to the PACC members at one meeting and 
voted on at the following meeting, except when the waitin g period is waived by a majority vote of the 
members.  The approved policy or procedure shall be included in the PACC Policy Manual. 
Section 2.  Possible Conflict.  If any part of these Bylaws are in conflict with Town Bylaws, those of the 
Town shall have preference. 
Section 3.  Annual Budget.  PACC will submit an annual budget to the Town Manager for inclusion in the 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant.  It shall be due when all other Town Department budgets are required to 
be submitted to the Town Manager either by request and/ or Charter requirement.  Said budget may be 
fully debated, discussed and amended at the Annual Town Meeting.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
ARTICLE  27.   To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 4.0, Use Regulations, 
by adding a new Section 4.16 entitled Registered Marijuana Dispensaries, or take any action relative 
thereto.  [Submitted by the Planning Board]  Board of Select men recommend approval. Finance 
Committee no direct financial impact. 
4.16.1. Purpose 
To provide for the placement of Registered Marijuana Dispensary (RMDs), in accordance with the 
Humanitarian Medical Use of Marijuana Act, G.L. c. 94C App. 1 -1 – Chapter 369 of the Acts of 2012 in 
locations suitable for lawful medical marijuana facilities and to minimize adve rse impact of RMDs on 
adjacent properties, residential neighborhoods, historic districts, schools, playgrounds and other locations 
where minors congregate by regulating the siting, design, placement, security and removal of RMDs. 
4.16.2.  Applicability 
4.16.2.1. All RMDs shall comply with The Regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Department of 
Public Health (DPH) 105 CMR 725.000 Implementation of an Act for the Humanitarian Medical Use of 
Marijuana, effective May 24, 2013, and any subsequent amendments thereto.   
4.16.2.2. The Town reserves the right to require provisions in the DPH Regulations for which the state 
granted waivers and/or exemptions to the RMD applicant based on the provisions of Section 8.3.3. (as to 
special permit) and Section 8.4. (as to development plan review). 
 
===PAGE 147===
147 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS: 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING MAY 3, 2014 
4.16.3. Definition 
Registered Marijuana Dispensary: also known as a Medical Marijuana Treatment Center, means a not-for-
profit entity registered under 105 CMR 725.000, that acquires, cultivates, possesses, processes (includin g 
development of related products such as edible marijuana -infused products, tinctures, aerosols, oils, or 
ointments), transfers, transports, sells, distributes, dispenses, or administers marijuana, products 
containing marijuana, related supplies, or educa tional materials to registered qualifying patients or their 
personal caregivers.  Unless otherwise specified, RMD refers to the site(s) of dispensing, cultivation, and 
preparation of marijuana. 
4.16.4. Location 
4.16.4.1. RMD‟s that include retail, processing and cultivation are allowed in Commercial Districts 
(C) by special permit. 
4.16.4.2. Cultivation and/or agricultural processing:  Allowed in all Districts by right if applicant is 
eligible for protection under Section 4.1.3(b) and G.L. c. 40A, § 3. Any cultivation within a building will 
require a special permit.  
4.16.4.3. RMD facilities that cultivate and process, but do not do retail of marijuana, are allowed in 
Office Park and Industrial Districts (OP/I) by special permit. 
Section 4.16.5. Procedure for Submittal 
4.16.5.1. The Planning Board shall be the Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) for a RMD Special 
Permit per MA Gen. Law 40A, Section 9. Siting shall be by Special Permit and Development Plan 
Review per Section 8.4 of the Lunenburg Protective Bylaw. 
4.16.5.1.a) Criteria  In granting any special permit, the Planning Board shall assure that the proposed 
use: 
  1) Will not be injurious or dangerous to the public health or unduly hazardous 
because of traffic congestion, danger or fire or explosion or other reasons. 
  2) Will not have a material adverse effect on the value of land and buildings in the 
neighborhood or on the amenities of the neighborhood. 
  3) Will be operated with reasonable regard for order and sightliness, if an open use. 
  4) Will not produce noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare observable at 
the lot lines in amounts clearly detrimental to the normal use of adjacent property. 
4.16.5.2. It is recommended that a concept plan showing the proposed use be submitted to th e Planning 
Board for review and discussion prior to the filing for Development Plan Review. 
4.16.5.3. The provisions of Section 8.3.3. (as to Special Permits) and Section 8.4. (as to Development 
Plan Review) shall apply. 
