===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CABLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES
MAY 5, 2015
BILOTTA MEETING ROOM, TOWN HALL
Those present: Cable Advisory Members: Steve Walker, Rhonda Lisio, Jamie Toale, Tom Alonzo,
Paula Bertram
Others present: Jo McLaughlin, Advisory Member; Kerry Speidel, Town Manager, Elaine Peterson
Bill Hewig, Kopelman & Paige, Kathy Herrick, Town Clerk
Those not present: Steve Malandrinos, Advisory Member
Meeting was called to order by Ms. Herrick at 6:00 p.m. Ms. Herrick welcomed all attending and
requested nominations for officers. Ms. Herrick exited the meeting.
Motion: J. Toale
To appoint Mr. Alonzo as Chairman
Motion: J. Toale
To appoint Steve Walker as Vice Chairman
2'': R. Lisio
Vote: All in Favor
2nd. R. Lisio
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Hewig entered the meeting and all present were introduced to him. Mr. Hewig passed out handouts
on the negotiation and ascertainment process for the cable license renewal. The cable license expires in
September 2017. Mr. Hewig stated negotiations are basically for funding. Programming and rates are not
negotiable; Programming is determined by the market.
The license can be denied for two reasons:
1) The provider is not in compliance with the current license after notice and opportunity to cure and
2) The provider has not met reasonable community demands from the town.
One goal of this committee will be to ascertain what the town needs over the next ten years. Requests
should be "cable-related, "such as equipment, a remote drop site, studio etc.
Mr. Hewig asked the committee to consider if an educational channel is desirable as the town does not
have one currently. Does the committee want and educational channel based at the new school? This
could be a training opportunity for students as well as a center for community volunteerism/events.
Mr. Hewig advised conducting a survey of subscribers to hear what they want. He presented several
samples from other towns. He also advised contacting department heads, committees and boards, and
community organizations etc. to see what their cable-related needs are. He encouraged the committee to
invite the public to their meetings to get feedback. Main concerns to keep in mind are customer service
and signal quality.
In summary, the committee will need to hold one public hearing at some point, determine what the town
needs will be going forward over the next ten years, and present a business plan with a proposed annual
budget for negotiating purposes.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: J. Toale
To adjourn the meeting at 7:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted
Elaine M. Peterso
i peters
Elaine
Executive Assistant to Town Manager
Approved:
2'°: R. Lisio
Vote: All in Favor
