===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Ja
PB
CABLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE MINUTES
April 12, 2017
The Cable Advisory Committee met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Steve Walker, Tom Alonzo,
Paula Bertram, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager and Bill Hewig, Attorney from KP Law present.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.
MINUTES/CORRESPONDENCES
None.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Discuss Plans for Public Hearing The public hearing has been scheduled for May 18, 2017. Paula asked Attornev Hewig
if it is necessary to have to another hearing after receiving the proposal from Cable. Bill indicated we should already
have a binder with a proposal that has a check in it for $100 - we need to locate, Heather will investigate. Attorney
Hewig will be in attendance at the hearing, the hearing needs to be advertised 2 weeks in advance.
Attorney Hewig emphasized that at the hearing we need to show support of our proposal from the Community - he
suggested various advertising options:
Scroll
Bos Announcements
Public Notices in gathering places
Emails to various departments
He added that If Departments
have
needs then we should ask them to attend (schools
etc.)
There are 2 main purposes of the hearing:
• Identify Towns future community needs
• Members of the Public to tell us if in compliance with current license - very important part of ascertainment.
For example are there parts of town where signal quality is very poor, if there are people should be encouraged
to come in and tell them. That's a violation of FCC's standards and one of the ways the municipality can say no
to the renewal license is if they are out of compliance with their regulations (this can be a significant negotiating
tool).
The standard notice states people are encouraged to attend and let us know their concerns. Another issue is customer
service, that is a compliance issue as well. Regulations require vendor to comply with 90% of the calls within 90
seconds.
RECEIVED & FILED
1
JUN 2 2 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
We are asking for the maximum which is 5%, which is practical in terms of what we are asking for. Attorney Hewig
stated we need to review how much money is needed to run the cable access on an annual basis and then give ourselves
a little leeway.
Tom suggested providing Comcast with our proposal the night of the hearing. Paula stated that she believes we should
wait to give them the proposal until at least a few days after the public hearing as issues may arise at the hearing that
should be incorporated into the hearing. Paula questioned if the INET system currently running? Tom did not believe
INET is in the current contract. Reviewed contract and in Exhibit B there are 10 sites. Need to verify with Steve
Malandrinos that we are not using the INET and what we are doing for interdepartmental data transfer. Attorney Hewig
stated that Comcast is no longer wants to be responsible for INET and will want to buy out.
Steve Walker asked if we can we put in a minimum, Hewig responded that the Cable companies are not doing that
anymore, typically based on percentage per subscriber. He added that it is not unreasonable to go up 5%, however it
will result in modest increases in monthly subscriber bills. On bill there is a license fee which is the 2.5% as noted on the
statement that we receive from Comcast
Attorney Hewig said we should provide Comcast a copy of the business plan that identifies the amount of increase we
are seeking. He asked if the proposal has a breakdown of equipment? Steve Walker said not yet because PACC doesn't
know configuration of space and the timing of it. Tom Alonzo we have to make assumptions. Steve said they have used
industry standard of cost per foot for a 2600 s.f. studio. The committee felt that the proposal would be stronger if we
could itemize equipment needs, Steve will ask current vendor to estimate equipment.
Attorney Hewig instructed us to notify Comcast in writing as soon as possible of public hearing date. Hearing will take
place in high school auditorium, we can do live fee or chose not to. Committee discussed a live show versus taping and
decided against a live feed to encourage people to attend.
Plan Next Steps in Renewal Process If Heather is unable to locate the binder, Bill Hewig will contact Comcast.
The next meeting will be on 5/17/17 there is a PAC meeting on 5/8/17. Attorney Hewig will review the draft business
plan and provide comments to Tom Alonzo.
Tom will send letters to Comcast about public hearing and various reports that we have requested. We will meet at 6:30
on the 18t
, and commence the hearing at 7:00. Tom will follow up with Steve Malandrinos about the Inet. Paula will
draft an email to departments about the public hearing and forward to Heather for distribution to departments. Tom
will send public notice to Elaine for printing in the Ledger.
Committee discussed what happens after we give them the business plan, Bill Hewig responded that then we are ready
to sit down and start talking to them. Preference is for Attorney Hewig and the entire Committee (rather than 1 person)
to negotiate. Typically takes 3 to 4 meetings for negotiations.
Meeting adjourned at 7:17 pm. The next meeting will be on 5/15/17 at 6:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Paula Bertram
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 22 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2
