===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Steve walker said that ne nad reviewed the contract between charter and barre who ras d population or sovo, tey
received a much better capital number. Steve noted that there are some unknowns in the business plan regarding the
studio; we don't know the size of the space, condition etc. We may be able to come down on our request. Reducing the
fee structure (the 5%) impacts operational expenses; bringing it down to 4.85% it is not very noticeable overall and may
make the capital request more acceptable.
Attorney Hewig said he reviewed a couple of licenses to see if we were being unreasonable; looked at Woburn, Malden,
Acton, Lancaster, looked at size, what they received for capital, how many channels, franchise fees and on what date it
was done. Of all the fees, the lowest was Woburn was at 4.625...at least two were 5%, Fitchburg and Acton. Attorney
Hewig noted that we need to stay firm on our fees for operational reasons. Looking at capital, Acton received $366,000
with 22,000 people in town; Fitchburg with 40,0000 people received $375,000. Woburn received $160,000 Marlboro
$156,0000. The average is $100,000 per 10,000 in population. Lancaster with a population of $8,000 received $50,000
in 2008. Jo McLaughlin pointed out that it is actually Lancaster and Sterling; they have 2 contracts that are done
simultaneously; we don't know what Sterling received. Based on this data, our number appears on the high side...we
need to find a compromise; Comcast offered $140,000.
The business plan calls for $300,000 in capital and projects operational costs at $200,000 annually. If we reduce the
franchise fee from 5% to 4.5% that equates to $180,000 per year.
Steve Malandrinos met with one of the Comcast Reps recently to talk about fiber. Steve told the Committee that Metro
E is a factor of 10 compared to what we are paying now. We currently have business coax. Mr. Malandrinos said that
the Coax is unreliable; public safety was up and down yesterday, and the DPW was up and down recently as well. The
upload bandwidth limits us a lot, the only way to get what we need is to go fiber.
Heather Lemieux said she received a call from Greg Franks Monday and he was asking if we would meet with a service
rep again to talk about bundling phone and internet to get the company more amenable to our request. Heather and
Steve Malandrinos will coordinate a meeting.
The Committee discussed various options to present to Comcast that would meet the operational needs of the PACC and
may be amenable to Comcast.
Tom Alonzo said that he believe that Comcast may not be willing to increase the franchise fee is because they are
concerned they might lose subscribers. He suggested the possibility of offering a percentage per subscriber; possibly
$75 per year per subscriber, which works out to $.62 per month. Paula pointed out that is a large number than we had
originally requested and we still need capital up front. Committee discussed various options and came up with the
following offers to present to Comcast:
RECEIVED & FILED
Offer 1:
Year 1 - Franchise fee 5%, 140,000 in capital
DEC 19 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
to eliminate the risk of a higher capital amount.
The Town Manager requested that we hold off making these offers until the second meeting on Fiber/phone service is
held.
Committee then discussed the side letters. Steve Walker suggested that we add to the side letter regarding high
definition that we must be part of the 1st
group in Massachusetts and that we are collocated with our broadcast channel.
Steve noted that we do need simulcast in standard definition for those that don't have hd. He added that WBIN is no
longer broadcasting on 1011 so that channel is available.
Regarding the educational channel the offer from Comcast is that they will added in 2 years. Mr. Walker pointed out
that we are ready now; he would like language in the side letter stating we need to assess in 90 days. Currently the
Leominster educational is on channel 99 in standard definition and could be available to Lunenburg. Paula said that she
does not agree with doing a side letter on an educational channel; we should be asking for it now. Tom agreed it should
be done within the 1st
vear.
We should be part of the 1st
group in Massachusetts to obtain the electronic program guide and we should incorporate
that this will be assessed in 1 year.
Heather will let Tom know after she and Steve M. meet with Comcast so that he can contact Bill to begin negotiations.
jo McLaughlin suggested that we should still go with the $240,000 and 5% fee as our first offer.
Meeting adjourned at 6:54 p.m.
Paula Bertram
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 19 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
