===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Announcements
LUNENBURG TOWN
• CLERK OFFICE
None
Minutes/Correspondence
Paula made a motion to approve the minutes of June 19, 2017, July 25, 2017 & August 22, 2107, Tom seconded; voted
unanimously.
Current Business
Negotiations with Comcast on New Cable Contract - Committee discussed the most recent offer from Comcast which
was received yesterday; offer is:
• PEG FEE 5%
• Capital grant of $130,000/10 years
• Video return line from high school at Comcast's expense
• Third channel within two years of the effective date
This proposal does not meet our needs. Bill Hewig outlined that one option available is to request that the Board of
Selectmen send them a preliminary assessment of denial, which gives us more time to negotiate and may put more
pressure on Comcast. We have to send correspondence into the Department of Telecommunications and Cable letting
them know we are continuing to negotiate and the extension should be granted. If negotiations don't produce results
then there would be a hearing before Board of Selectmen, if Selectmen uphold the decision then it goes to Board of
Telecommunications and Cable
Committee discussed how capital is paid. The license fee is the percentage of gross annual revenue and then the
franchise fee is all other costs and includes capital.
At this point Mr. Franks of Comcast joined the meeting.
Mr. Hewig explained that the offer is way too low and we were hoping for a lot higher. Mr. Franks responded "If I give
you $240K I would have to reduce franchise fee to 1%". Mr. Hewig said that doesn't help, he was hoping that Comcast
could get to higher numbers by doing it incrementally; that would reduce the amount of cost to subscribers and keep
the pass through costs low. We are asking to go from $.24 to $.60, which is a small amount. The question at hand is the
standard of review the Town's responsibility during ascertainment is to identify the future cable related needs. We
think our request is reasonable and we are meeting our part of the bargain; what is the resistance from Comcast? The
numbers don't seem to be that big. Mr. Franks responded that it is actually a very good offer, they have to look at the
"big picture" and this offer is much higher than the City of Marlboro last year. The increase in the percentage fee
equates to two million over the course of the license. He believes any administrative court will uphold Comcast's offer.
===PAGE 2===
compare one Town to another, it is not fair and is not rational. That is not how the cable act works; it works by showing
your own community's needs. You said you came to the table with a realistic and reasonable offer; you are obligated to
meet the Town's future cable related needs considering the cost. You need to be able to justify why you are not
responding to our needs. We are reasonable we have considered the costs. I've just told my committee that if we can't
get more capital then I am going to recommend that the Selectmen petition for a 60 day extension to begin the process
of commencing a letter of preliminary non-renewal. I haven't ever done that because I haven't really believed we had a
good enough case to win this but in this case we do.
Mr. Franks responded "Understood." Mr. Alonzo emphasized that we need to provide the services that the citizens have
requested; people are asking for the education channel. That is what the people are asking us to do and it my job is to
fight for what they want.
Mr. Hewig said the he gets some plans that ask for the moon, this plan is good and it is actually less than what we need.
He told Mr. Franks that if he can move on these numbers than we want to hear it; Mr. Franks responded that is the best
offer he can provide. Mr. Hewig recommended that the Committee report out to the Board of Selectmen that we have
not succeeded in negotiations to date and Counsel is recommending that the Board petition the Department of
Telecommunications and Cable (DTC) for a 60 day extension in which the Town will begin the process of filing a
preliminary letter of non-renewal. He added that the hope is that during the 60 day extension period we can come to
successful resolution. Paula so moved; Steve seconded. Voted unanimously.
Mr. Hewig told Mr. Franks that he appreciated the offer came up to 5% and the offer of the video return line; but we
have made a case for the capital. This Community has a vision for the future that benefits Comcast, We are in a
partnership.
At this point Mr. Franks left the meeting.
Committee discussed plan moving forward. The Town Manager will place this topic on the Selectmen's September 19t
agenda. If the 60 day extension is granted, we will have until about November 4th to continue negotiations; if the
extension petition is not granted we will have to issue a preliminary assessment of non-renewal. If after 60 days we
can't renegotiate and the Board of Selectmen vote to deny renewal Comcast can take us to DTC for a hearing, which is
similar to a trial.
Mr. Hewig informed the Committee that he has never been to DTC and he never seen Comcast behave like this before.
Mr. Alonzo noted that our viewership went up, he would love to know in other Towns what their subscriber base is;
Comcast is making about 32 million per year on Lunenburg subscribers.
Bill Hewig said that during negotiations we always talk about the value of pass through, he has SVEN & FIELD
Mr. Alonzo said that in his opinion two years for the third channel is ridiculous.
DEC 19 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
letter to the Board of Selectmen and copy the Cable Committee Chair on why he is recommending extension and
possible preliminary assessment of non-renewal.
Steve Walker asked that if the laws regarding Cable change, does that preempt the side letters? Attorney Hewig
responded affirmatively.
Paula asked if Attorney Hewig could have the letter to DTC prepared for the meeting on the 19*. Attorney Hewig
agreed to provide the letter in advance of the meeting on the 19*.
Attorney Hewig said he will reach out the Mike Gale, DTC attorney about the possibility of mediation.
Committee briefly talked about what we are arguing about; the difference between what we are requesting and what
Comcast is offering equates to $11,000 per year. The pass through cost to the subscriber is actually about .32 cents on a
monthly bill. Comcast's unwillingness to invest in the system severely impacts our ability to meet the needs of the
Community. Committee discussed the possibility of seeking some initial capital infusion in a lump sum and then adding
the remaining capital to the subscriber bills.
The Chair will determine a date for the next meeting after the hearing with the Selectmen on the 19th.
Steve Walker made a motion to adjourn at 7:50 p.m., Paula seconded. Voted unanimously.
Respectfully submitted,
Paula Bertram
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 19 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
