===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
Ja 80
SEP 1 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK ORFICECABLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE MINUTES
July 25, 2017
The Cable Advisory Committee met in the Selectmen Conference Room as scheduled with Steve Walker,
Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Heather Lemieux, Attorney Bill Hewig, Jo Mclaughlin, Steve Malandrinos
and Greg Franks of Comcast present.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.
MINUTES/CORRESPONDENCES
None.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Negotiations with Comcast on new cable contract - Attorney Hewig asked if a copy of the hearing
transcript was available. Mr. Franks responded that it is not yet available and he will investigate. Mr.
Franks indicated that he does not yet have a copy of the business plan, he was provided a printed copy
during the meeting. He also requested a copy of the presentation given at the hearing, Steve Walker
will forward an electronic copy of the presentation.
Mr. Hewig reviewed our list of requests: The proposed 10 year budget incorporates a new part time
staff person
in 2018 and another in 2020, additionally Lunenburg is looking for 5% gross arinua!
revenues; which represents approx. $200,000 per year. Lunenburg currently receives 2.5%;
approximately $100,000. Our annual operating cost will come from that and our captal needs will be
set aside. Capital needs are outlined in the business plan. We are looking for $240,000 in capital, üe
current license is for $115,000. We are also seeking a third channel to be used lor education within "
years. The capital request is for a full function studio, we do not yet have a location although it may be
at the high school. Currently it is in the old elementary school. Page 9 of the business plan oudine:
the capital needs. Our capital request is very constrained and realistic based on the community's needs.
We are also seeking HD programming and inclusion of PEG programming in the guide.
Tom Alonzo added that the previous contract included INET. The Town utilizes Corcert for networking
of all of our buildings; we have Comcast business coax lines. In our proposal we requested 200 MES up
and down and provided a list of the 10 buildings (Town Hall, Ritter, Senio: Center, library eid
elementary, middle high, primary, middle, public safety and public works).
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Franks responded that the lead concern Comcast has regarding this type of proposal is the cost of
services; this request will raise the cost on subscriber bills. The subscriber base has been levei in
Lunenburg unlike some community's. Comcast wants to be careful about driving people away from the
service. Current franchise related cost (FRC) is $.36 per subscriber. High interest: (11%) on capital costs
- FCC allows this. On just capital without interest it is $.28 - it would increase the franchise fee from
2.5% to 5% on each bill and the FRC cost woud be approx. Ş.75.
Mr. Hewig responded that the Town is looking for a state of art studio, the need and the demand are
there. Our view is that subscribers would be willing to pay a modest increase for a state of the ari
studio and the related capital needs.
Tom Alonzo noted that at the hearing people complained about the cost for the services being provided
as it relates to other aspects - not the PACC proposal. The citizens are looking for more programming,
with the construction of the new school there is a strong need for the educational channel. These are
the drivers from the community.
Mr. Hewig commented that the transcript from the hearing would be helpful. His notes from the
hearing indicated that there were complaints are about picture quality, audio and service outages. Mr
Hewig said that a good case has been made for the increase in capital and in services. This proposal and
the work that has been done in Lunenburg has come a long way over the ten year period, we now how
to produce quality programming and will make the relationship between Comcast and the community
more valuable.
Mr. Franks indicated that Comcast is not offering HD PEG anywhere yet; assumption is that at some
point they will start doing it. He said he can offer a side letter that when HD PEG channels are offered
and a certain number of subscribers have HD programming then will negotiate in good faith. He cannot
offer it in the contract. Bill Hewig commented that East Longmeadow has HD PEG, what were the
circumstances; it is a little mysterious as it is not in their contract. Mr. Franks responded that it is a
different service region, they gave up a standard PEG channel in exchange for the HD channel he is not
sure if they are testing it yet. Tom Alonzo asked what is the issue? Why not simply state in the contract
that when HD PEG is available the contract will be re-negotiated? Vir. Franks said that there are a
number of issues; where it fits on the quam (collection of virtual channels); how much bandwidth does it
take up; (if it were offered in every town the regional network might have bandwidth issues). Tom
noted if every community had 3 HD channels it would be 1000 channels, should not be a huge
bandwidth issue.
Mr. Franks said that the Comcast head engineer has indicated that they have to
figure out how to make space for it. Additionally is not a money maker for Comcast, so they are
reluctant to do it. Everything is "jammed together" at the head end.
Discussion then centered around a programming directory. Gregg Franks said that this would be
difficult, each community shares a channel map with other communities. He said that Comcast could
include "government channel".
Steve Walker responded that we really want the content on the
directory. Gregg reiterated that he cannot offer an electronic programming guide by a certain date. Bill
Hewig asked if he would be willing to do you do side letter for EPG? Gregs said he will work on that.
===PAGE 3===
Tom asked again what was the point of side letters, why would Comcasi be unwilling to put these items
it the contract? Mr. Franks said that because there isn't anything that we can promise to you by a
specific date. Mr. Alonzo said the he does not want it to be a side letter, he wants it to be in the
contract that if and when it is available then it will become available to Lunenburg. Mr. Franks again
stated that he cannot offer it in the contract, the letter means something, it does mean Comcast will
negotiate in good faith.
Bill Hewig asked about the wording in the side letter. Mr. Franks said that they are very detailed and
sets out the minimum criteria that the company would consider for implementation. He added that his
hope is that eventually he will be able to offer HD PEG. Mr. Franks will send a copy of the HD Peg letter
and EPG letter to Bill Hewig.
Mr. Hewig noted that the Town would like a video return line from the high school to the Town Hail,
which is about ½ mile. Currently the only video remote site is the Town Hall although it is possible to
broadcast live over the internet from the middle school. Mr. Franks said that this could be provided as a
courtesy but that he can look into getting a good deal on it. The fact that Lunenburg currendy utilizes
business services will make the requested increases much more palatable. Currently between the town
and school Lunenburg is currently spending about $3,000 per month on business services.
Gregg Franks said that he has a bi-weekly call with his boss tomorrow and he will see what he can work
out, he is sure that Comcast can offer more than what is currently in the proposal. He will provide
sample side letters and will get an estimate on the video return line (may be less than $10,000).
Bill Hewig noted that he did not see liquated damages in the contract and would like to see that added,
Greg Franks will add that.
Tom Alonzo asked if the addition of the 3'd channel is going to be an issue; Gregg Franks responded that
Comcast will want to know how we are filling up the current channel. Steve Walker noted that currently
we have our channel 8 and 9 and also have Leominster educational channel so clearly it is not a
bandwidth issue.
Gregg Franks asked if we wanted to schedule another meeting? Meeting was scheduled for August 7,
2017 at 6:00 pm. At this point Mr. Franks left the meeting.
Bill Hewig commented that he believes Lunenburg will be able to obtain the funds requested in our
business plan, or close to it; he noted that the amount of individual subscriber bill increase is small. If
we are able to demonstrate a need and show that we are going to spend it responsibly then Comcast
will be receptive.
The committee then discussed the side letter issue. Mr. Hewig noted that he has not been able to
incorporate these issues/requests into the contract in other communities, the side letter is probably
going to be the best that we are going to be able to get. If current proposed legislation passes
regarding HD then they will have to provide. The fact that Lunenburg is a good customer makes them
amenable to providing interconnectivity.
===PAGE 4===
We discussed the possibility of requesting a senior citizen discount side letter.
Mr. Hewig noted that having a good public hearing and a well thought out business plan is extremeiy
helpful to the negotiation process.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
The next meeting is scheduled for 8/7/17 at 6:00 pm
The meeting adjourned at 6:59
Respectfully submitted,
Paula Bertram
