===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
CABLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE MINUTES
June 19, 2017
The Cable Advisory Committee met in the Selectmen Conference Room as scheduled with Steve Walker,
Tom Alonzo and Paula Bertram present.
Public Comment
None
Announcements
None
Minutes/Correspondence
Committee reviewed & approved Minutes of :
•
October 26, 2015
• June 12, 2017
Current Business
Discuss and review outcome of public hearing of 6/15/17 - Tom noted that there was a technical
problem with the audio of the public hearing that was held on June 15" relalive to the re-negotiation on
the Cable Contract. The Town Manager has verified that there is no legal issue win the lack of a
recording, the required public hearing was held in accordance with State Laws. Steve Walker gave a
PowerPoint Presentation. There were 5 or 6 attendees but we also received 6 emalis that were read
into the record. The Fire Chief gave an overview of how the department is currently utilizing Comcast
and how they anticipate using it in the future. Loxi Calmes, Superintendent, forwarded comments
through Steve Malandrinos.
Final review of PACC Business Plan - Steve Walker discussed INET and had askee Steve Malandrines
about dark fiber who suggested that 100 up 100 down in 10 places would be preferable. Cost would be
over $720,000 over the course of the 10 year contract, ($600 per month per site). Tom Alonzo noted
that we do not have INET in the contract; unfortunately it was left out of the contract. Steve outined
the assumptions and requests in the business plan. He suggested that in place or iNET we wsk Comcast
to provide fiber drops. Tom Alonzo reiterated that we do not have INE! and he belleves inar it 3
unlikely that we will be able to negotiate Comcast to provide it, he will talk with Atiomey Hewig. Stere
Walker has one minor change to make in the business plan, he will make the change and forward to
Heather Lemieux for distribution to the Board of Selectmen and as a public document.
===PAGE 2===
Discuss and plan next steps in renewal process - Attorney Hewig has scanned the business plan and is
awaiting a formal list of our requests. Committee decided to forward the document prepared by Steve
Walker to Attorney Hewig as the starting point for negotiations.
Upcoming Meeting Schedule - Next meeting will be scheduled in early July, Paula will forward her
vacation schedule to Tom Alonzo.
Meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Paula Bertram
