===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Rhonda Lisio stated that the comments made by Paula Bertram relative to the inability to broadcast live trom locations
other than Town Hall were incorrect. Steve Walker indicated that currently PACC is able to broadcast from other
locations using vpn, this functionality has been tested in the high school auditorium but has not been in tested other
locations as of yet.
Minutes/Correspondence
Steve motioned to approve the minutes of 12/18/17 with the addition of adding Paula being present. Paula seconded.
Motion passed unanimously.
Current Business
Discuss Comcast contract proposal - Tom indicated we would be discussing the two side letters received from Comcast
and their proposed counter offer.
Bill Hewig had sent the committee's counter offer via email to Greg Franks of Comcast (minutes of 12/18/17).
Comcast's counter offer is to:
(1) Pay 50% of our $170K capital in year 1, and the balance 2 or 3 years later;
RECEIVED & FILED
(2) Construct a fiber video return line to the High School, or a digital upgrade, but not both;
(3) Convert the Leominster channel to Lunenburg E channel; and
MAR 27 2018
(4) Give a Standard Senior Citizen Discount side letter [see attached sample letter]
MINENRURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The Committee questioned what the proposed digital upgrade is? Mr. Hewig was not aware what Comcast was
referencing, a call was made to Steve Malandrinos who indicated he was not aware what was included in a digital
upgrade. Mr. Malandrinos added that currently the upload speeds at the high school excellent, he is not sure we need
the video return line. The Committee asked Mr. Malandrinos about upload speeds at the Ritter, Library, and Eagle
House capacity. Steve responded that those locations don't have upload capacity - 10 or 15 mb sufficient to push to
Town Hall, these sites have potential for SD but not HD.
Paula Bertram made a motion to authorize Tom Alonzo/Bill Hewig to contact Comcast to determine what is included in
the digital upgrade and what would the Town be required to purchase to comply. Steve Walker seconded, passed
unanimously.
The Committee then discussed the two side letters offered by Comcast. Attorney Hewig pointed out that side letters are
not a legal obligation.
The Committee had requested:
1. A meeting within 1 year to assess the availability of HD/EPG for PEG;
2. Should HD for PEG become an option, Comcast will not withdraw SD for those customers still wanting it;
===PAGE 2===
Committee discussed potential impacts to customers with the removal of SD channels. Tom Alonzo pointed out that all
issues will be discussed and reviewed, when HD becomes available and at that time Lunenburg could insist on SD.
The Committee was agreeable to a meeting in two years to discuss HD/EPG.
Following discussion the Committee found that the terms of the side letters are acceptable. Bill Hewig will work with
Comcast to draft.
The next time the committee meets it should be to approve contract terms and recommend acceptance to the Board of
Selectmen.
The next cable meeting was tentatively scheduled for Wednesday, January 7, 2018.
Meeting adjourned at 6:37 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Paula Bertram
