===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Apront L I T DIS E
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
February 2, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at Town Hall
Present:
and Jack Rabbitt
Chairman George Emond, Members Ernie Sund, David Shea, Perry Jewel
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
196-198 Killburn Street - Pass
75 Hunting Hill Road - Pass
78 Whiting Street - Pass
943 Chase Road - Fail (application has been made for testing)
2 Page Street - Pass
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
15 Pleasant Street, #17
72 NW Townsend Road
NW Townsend Road, Lot 1
Lot 4, Lena Lane
LOT 4, LENA LANE - WELL VARIANCE
Chris McKenzie of Whitman and Bingham met with the Board to request a well variance.
This lot is located within a small subdivision. The proposed well is located fifteen (15)
feet off the side/rear property line. The required distance is fifty (50) feet. This request
is being made due to a change in the siting of the septic system due to the topography of
the lot. After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Sund the variance was
unanimously granted.
15/17 PLEASANT STREET - VARIANCE
Chris McKenzie of Whitman and Bingham met with the Board to request several
variances. This is a very small lot and the septic system is in failure. There are two
houses on a single lot in single ownership and there are wetlands on one side. What is
being proposed is a shared system for the two existing houses. The application is
requesting the following variances:
To allow reduction of the required setback from cellar wall, 10 foot
required; 8 foot and 5 foot respectively requested;
===PAGE 2===
To allow reduction of the require offset from groundwater, 5 foot required,
4 foot requested;
3.
Wetlands offset from 100 feet to 51 feet.
After discussion, it was decided that there was no other better placement for this
system. On motion by Sund and second by Rabbitt, the request for variances was
unanimously approved.
322 FLAT HILL ROAD - VARIANCE
Chris McKenzie met with the Board. Currently, this system is in failure. The system is a
two bedroom system. Due to the high ground water on this lot, a sieve analysis was
performed. The question was asked as to how the high ground water would be addressed.
Mr. McKenzie stated that fill would be brought in and the system raised. The final grade
would be five (5) feet. After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Sund, the
request for variance to use sieve analysis was unanimously approved.
552 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE - FAILED SYSTEM
Ms. Szocik, the owner, and Steve Marsden met with the Board. This is a rental property.
The tenant called to report a failed septic system. Agent Garreffi inspection the site and
was shown an area of discharge in the backyard. The tenant ran water in the house to
determine the severity of the failure and the water immediately discharged to the surface
as observed by Agent Garreffi.
Correspondence was sent on January 5, 2009, via certified mail, ordering the owner to
repair the system within 120 days. In addition, the owner must pump the tank and keep it
pumped until a new system has been installed.
The owner advised that the tenant has vacated the property and the tank has been
pumped. Ms. Szocik has retained Mr. Marsden to engineer a new system. After
discussion and on motion by Sund and second by Jewell, it was agreed that the section on
pumping the tank would be waived as the property is vacant. Further, there would be no
occupancy of the property until the new system is installed. All in favor.
WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
The members of the Board again discussed the role that they believe they should play in
the final Waste Water Management Plan to be submitted for Town Meeting and are
concerned that there has been no executive summary prepared stating all the dissenting
points. Chairman Emond will contact Abby at Wright Pierce to discuss this.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:25 pm.
