===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
June 15, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Chairman George Emond, Members Ernie Sund, David Shea, Perry Jewel
and Jack Rabbitt
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
241 Reservoir Road
50 Hemlock Drive
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
40 Hemlock Drive
43 West Street
40 HEMLOCK DRIVE - VARIANCE REQUEST
John and Judy Male, owners of the property met with the board. They would like to
upgrade their current septic system. This is a small waterfront lot on Hickory Hills Lake
serviced by public water. The land available for a system is limited. The designer has
maximized the offset to the existing wetland. Mr. & Mrs. Male are requesting offset
variances from wetland as follows:
2.
Title 5 local upgrade approval - Setback from wetland from fifty (50) feet to
forty-two (42) feet;
Lunenburg Board of Health Regulation Article IV, Section 2 - offset from
wetland from one hundred (100) feet to forty-two (42) feet.
Agent Jim Garreffi has reviewed the plan as submitted and has stated that since the only
alternative would be a tight tank, he has no objection to the variance request being
approved.
Abbutter, Mr. David Haughland was also present at the meeting and expressed concerns
as to odor that might emit from the "candy cane" vent. He was assured there would be no
odor. Abutter accepted assurances and no further objections were voiced.
After discussion and on motion by Sund and second by Shea, the request for variances
was unanimously approved.
===PAGE 2===
43 WEST STREET TERRACE - VARIANCE REQUEST
Neil Gorman met with the board to discuss the above property. Mr. Gorman is
requesting variances to upgrade the existing septic system on this property. The lot is
small and narrow. The house sits on the widest portion of the lot. There is also a high
water table.
Mr. Gorman is seeking a reduction in the groundwater offset for 4 feet to 3 feet. Because
he lot is small, this reduction will help keep the breakout fill from crossing lot lines an
llow the applicant to minimize surfacé run-off by re-grading the site
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Sund, the request for variances
was unanimously approved.
LYME DISEASE DISCUSSION - KURT HAYES
Mr. Hayes met with the board to discuss an upcoming presentation on Lyme disease that
is being held at the Lunenburg Public Library on July 30". Mr. Hayes began his
involvement because his son contracted Lyme disease and was misdiagnosed.
The group giving the presentation is Lymelite. Lymelite is doing public forums to
educate the public on Lyme disease and garner support for possible new legislation.
After discussion, the board offered Mr. Hayes their support and whatever assistance he
might need.
PUBLIC DISCUSSION
69 ISLAND ROAD - BILL HANNIGAN
Bill Hannigan, along with Nat from his office, met with the board to discuss the redesign
of the septic system on the above property. The structure on this property is going to be
torn down and a new structure built. Currently, there is a three bedroom septic permit
that is dated September 18, 2006. Mr. Hannigan advised that the owner would like to
redesign the septic system to a Presby system. This change would include a two foot
offset to groundwater but would eliminate the need for a pump tank, barrier and retaining
wall. He advised that is would also cost significantly less.
After discussion the board advised that they would be open to a redesign of the system.
This matter can be set for discussion again on July 20, 2009 at 7:15 pm.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:25 pm.
