===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
October 19, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Vice Chairman, George Emond, Members Perry Jewel and Jack Rabbitt
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
224 Townsend Harbor Road - Fail
58 Hemlock Drive
442 Howard Street
65 White Street
125 Howard Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
15 Chestnut Street
175 Pleasant Street
40 FIRE ROAD 12 - DEED RESTRICTION
Owner Ms. Susan Robbins and contractor Travis Moore met with the board to execute a
two bedroom deed restriction. After review of the plans submitted, it was agreed that the
house, after renovation, would have seven rooms. Administrative Assistant prepared a
›edroom deed restriction for execution, which was signed and notarized
After recording, the original document will be returned to the board of health. A
certificate of occupancy will not be issued until the deed restriction is recorded.
32 WEST ACRES ROAD - GEOTHERMIC WELL
Mr. Dan Goodwin met with the board to discuss the installation of a Geothermic Well at
the above address. The boiler at this residence needs to be replaced and the owner is
pursuing a green alternative. Redman HVAC is a certified installer and will be
overseeing the project. Mr. Goodman is proposing an open loop system with water being
continuously returned to the column of water in the well.
Administrative Assistance Andrea Schnepf spoke with Mr. Francis McNammara of the
Lunenburg Water District with regard to this matter as this home is presently on public
water. Mr. McNammara advised that he has no issues with the well being installed
however, there can be no cross contamination with public water.
===PAGE 2===
After discussion, and on motion by Rabbit and second by Jewell, the Board voted
unanimously to approve the drilling and installation of a geothermic well provided that a
deed restriction be placed on the property noting that his well is not a source of potable
water. In addition, a well drilling permit must be obtained from Nashoba Associated
Board of Health.
91 MAPLE PARKWAY - MARSDEN
Steve Marsden met with the board to discuss the replacement of the above septic system.
This system is in failure due to the high water table. In addition, the high water table
made it impossible for a perc test to be conducted and raising the leaching area will
require that the system need a pump.
Mr. Marsden is requesting the following variances:
Offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet
Sieve Analysis in lie of a percolation test
Offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 53 feet.
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and second by Rabbit, the board voted
unanimously to approve the request.
43 HEMLOCK TERRACE - BOB PROCTOR
The matter was before the Board on June 1, 2009 at which time the requested variances
was approved. During the inspection of the installation by Agent Jim Garreffi, it was
noted that the septic tank was too close to the foundation and the water line was too close
to the leach field. Both require ten foot offsets.
Mr. Proctor has advised that the tank had to be placed where it is due to the access for the
tank truck. This house is on a slab, making the relocation of the water line difficult.
There is no foundation, the water table is very deep, the soil is very gravelly and Mr.
Proctor sleeved the water line.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the request was
unanimously approved.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:50 pm.
