===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
August 17, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Rabbitt
Chairman George Emond, David Shea, Ernie Sund, Perry Jewell and Jack
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
102 Cove Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
943 Chase Road
69 Island
24 Beal Street
106 Pratt Street
45 Page Hill Road
Watts Street, lot 3
37 Woodland Drive
385 SUNSET LANE - VARIANCE REQUEST
The applicant is asking to install a new well on this property. The sewage disposal
systems for this property and surrounding properties were provided to the Board on the
well permit plan which was provided by the well driller, Mike Sullivan. In order to
maximize the new well's offset from the surrounding septic systems, the well is proposed
for the other side of the road.
The lots in this area are small and surrounding septic systems close. Mr. Sullivan is
proposing a drilled well, which would provide more protection that a point or shallow
well.
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Jewell, variances approved. All
in favor.
Mr. Sullivan has maximized the offsets for the wells and septic system located on the
surrounding properties. He further advised that he has made numerous attempts to
contact the abutting property owner to the north without success.
After discussion and on Motion by Sund and second by Rabbitt, the request was
unanimously approved.
===PAGE 2===
20 JOHNSON STREET - VARIANCE REQUEST
Steve Marsden met with the Board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. The
property is waterfront, is very small and has a private well. Due to the failure of the
current system, the size of the lot and the proximity to the lake, this is the only possible
location for a new system. A two bedroom deed restriction is required.
After discussion and on Motion by Shea and second by Jewell the request for variance
was unanimously approved.
23 MAPLE PARKWAY - VARIANCE REQUEST
Steve Marsden met with the Board on behalf of the owner. This system is in the water
table and in failure. This property is served by town water. Due to the soil being very
wet, a sieve analysis was performed.
Due to the site restrictions, this is the best place for the new system.
On motion by Rabbit and second by Shea, the variances were approved. All in favor.
69 ISLAND ROAD - VARIANCE REQUEST
Hannigan Engineering met with the Board of behalf of the owner. This matter was on
before the Board on June 14, 2009 to discuss the redesign of system permitted in 2006.
The new design requests the use of a Presby system. This would require a reduction in
groundwater offset from 4 feet to 2.5 feet. A sieve analysis is also be requesting. The
current house on this site is to be torn down with a new, three bedroom system to be built.
This home has town water and is a lakefront lot.
After discussion and on motion by Sund and second by Shea, variances were approved.
All in favor.
106 PRATT STREET - VARIANCE REQUEST
George Sullivan met with the board on behalf of the owner. This house is served by
public water. This system has been in failure for some time. This is a very small lot with
a high perc rate. The area available for a system limits the size of the new system
without causing run off problems for the house as well as the abutters.
Mr. Sullivan is proposing a Presby system. This would reduce the system by 25% and
reduce the footprint required for grading.
After discussion and on Motion by Shea and second by Jewell, variances approved. All
in favor.
===PAGE 3===
619 RESERVOIR ROAD - VARIANCE REQUEST
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure.
The lot is very small on the lake and all abutting lots have private wells. The variances
requested are offsets to the onsite well and abutting wells and offset to wetlands (the
lake). A Presby system is proposed to reduce the footprint of the system. The only other
alternative would be a tight tank.
The offset to wells is a Title 5 variance and requires DEP approval. In addition, this
requires a two bedroom deed restriction.
On motion by Shea and second by Jewell, variances approved. All in favor.
33 LAKEVIEW DRIVE - VARIANCE REQUEST
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system would fail a
Title 5 inspection due to the high ground water. This is a very small lot and is served by
Town water. A Presby system is being proposed, a two bedroom deed restriction is
required.
A barrier is required due to the small lot size. This is necessary to fit the system on the
site and keep the fill on site.
After discussion and on motion by Sund and second by Shea, the variances were
approved. All in favor.
24 BEAL STREET - VARIANCE REQUEST
Tim Beauchemin met with the Board on behalf of the owner. This lot is surrounded by
wetlands and has a high water table. This property failed Title 5 inspection.
The system being proposed is in the best possible location but requires an offset to
wetlands. The property is too wet to perc so a sieve analysis was used.
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Sund the variances were
approved. All in favor.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
Continued until September 21, 2009
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 9:35 pm.
