===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
September 21, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Rabbitt
Chairman George Emond, David Shea, Ernie Sund, Perry Jewell and Jack
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
143 Highland Street
36 Kingman Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
483 Flat Hill Road, Lot 1
11 Beachview Road
862 Reservoir Road
16 Rangeley Road, Lot 36
50 Chestnut Street, Lot 1
32 HEMLOCK DRIVE
Tim Beauchemin met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure.
This is a lot that slopes toward the lake. In order to maintain the offset to wetlands, the
system is being proposed in the front of the house. The home has town water.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the request was
unanimously approved.
26 SPRING STREET EXTENSION
The owners of the property met with the board to discuss the possible plans for the
property. The board was receptive to the repairs and suggested that they speak with their
engincer and meet with the board once the plans have been completed.
188-190 HOLLIS ROAD
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. The owner, Al Casson was
also present. This is a multi-family house and the system is in failure. Currently, this
home has three apartments and five bedrooms on a four bedroom septic permit.
===PAGE 2===
Chairman Emond stated that the studio apartment was not a legal apartment and built
outside the current septic permit.
After discussion, this matter was continued until October 5, 2009 at 7:00 pm.
29 MEADOW LANE
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure.
The lot is small and has a high water table and is served by public water. Due to the
location of the house, pool and drain, the proposed system is in the best possible location.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Shea, variances were approved.
All in favor.
15 CHESTNUT STREET
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure.
This is an older home with three bedroom; however, the current septic system is for a two
bedroom house. A fully compliant Title 5 system can be installed but would require a
local variance for distance to wetlands.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Shea, variance approved. All in
favor.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Board of Health voted unanimously to appoint David Shea as Chairman, George
Emond as Vice-Chairman and Perry Jewell as Secretary of the Board.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:45 pm.
