===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
OARD OF HEALTI
MEETING MINUTES
March 2, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ridder Administration Building
Present:
and Jack Rabbitt
Chairman George Emond, Members Ernie Sund, David Shea, Perry Jewel
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
22 Harris Avenue - Needs Further evaluation by Board
51 West Street Terrace
11 Boucher Road
528 Mass Avenue
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
23 Valley Road, Lot 3
21 Charlton Street, Lot 64
NW Townsend Road, Lot 2
322 Flat Hill Road
WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
The members of the Board again discussed the impending completion of Phase IV of the
Comprehensive Waste Water Management Plan (CWMP) as well as the proposed
Lunenburg Sewer By-Law.
Comments to the Sewer Commission are as follows:
1. Flows - The limitation on residential development to 330 gallons per day. Is it the
intent of the Commission to use Title V volume restrictions (i.e. 110 gals/day
per bedroom) or the 57 gals. Per day also mentioned. Our concern it that
should a lot owner wish to construct a home of greater size when the lot could
support an adequate septic system, it would not be possible within the Sewer
District while it would be allowed outside the district where subsurface
disposal systems would be the norm.
2. Septage Management Plan - Our Board has stated that it would not consider a
Septage Management Plan until the CWMP has been completed and
approved.
===PAGE 2===
3. Additional Title 5 Requirements and I/A Systems - Additional regulations to Title
V and I/A systems cannot be implemented by the Sewer Commission. Boards
of Health are the only entities within cities and towns empowered to do so.
There are no current plans to do so.
4. Sewer District - We believe there should be a better description of what authority
the Sewer Commission can exercise townwide after a sewer District has been
created. i.e raise fees or otherwise raise funds by modification of usage
amounts without oversight, restrict building, placement of treatment
facilities? With the current By-law as proposed, you are also regulating the
areas that are not in the district.
5. Future Expansion - Currently, the two most critical "needs areas" of Lunenburg,
as determined in the past, have already been connected to sewer. Current
Title 5 Regulations as well as local Board of Health Regulations have been
successful in handling current septic replacement. How would future
‹pansion of the sewer system be initiated? Would petition by residents t
onsidered? If instigated by the Sewer Commission, what criteria would t
6. Lakes Areas - At what point and what conditions would initiate further study of
either Lake area?
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:25 pm.
