===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
May 4, 2009
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ridder Administration Building
Present:
Rabbitt
Chairman George Emond, Members Ernie Sund, David Shea and Jack
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
49 Pratt Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
None
540 NORTHFIELD ROAD
Steve Marsden met with the Board to request variances for the repair/replacement of a
failed system that had been installed in the carly 1980's. This is a large piece of property
in excess of 26 acres, that is being subdivided. There is an ANR plan currently before the
Mr. Marsden is requesting the following variances:
1.
2.
3.
That a sieve analysis be used in place of percolation testing;
Offset to groundwater - four feet required, two feet proposed;
Well variance - distance to property line, 50 feet required, 17 feet proposed
from new lot line.
Mr. Marsden provided a plan for the Board. Mr. Marsden stated that the well is a drilled
artesian well currently utilizing suction. This would be replaced with a pressure pump.
After discussion, and on motion by Shea and second by Sund, the requests were
unanimously approved.
On inspection of the plan, it was noted that no reserve was provided. Should the ANR
plan come before the Board for approval the new system must be Title 5 compliant which
would require a reserve. In addition, the wetlands appear to be closer than the 100 foot
required. Mr. Marsden must either submit a plan with the required 100 foot offset or
request a variance from the Board.
===PAGE 2===
SWINE FLU INFORMATION
Chairman George Emond updated the Board as to the status of the dissemination of
information to the residents of the town. Agent Jim Garreffi met with CAFO Kerry
Spidel and Fire Chief Scott Glenny to prepare a statement from the Town regarding this
illness and precautions that should be taken. This information was included in paychecks
as well as run on Lunenburg Public Access Television. In addition, Administrative
Assistant Andrea Schnepf printed an information sheet that was distributed at Town
Meeting on Saturday, May 2nd
Meeting adjourned 7:55 pm
