===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
July 19, 2010
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Chairman George Emond, Perry Jewell, Jack Rabbitt and Troy Daniels
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
56 White Street
289 Resevoir Road
18 Island Road
1521 Mass Avenue
227 Arbor Street
168 Chase Road
20 Fitchview Avenue
18 NW Townsend Road - Needs Further Evaluation
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
362 Burrage Street
46 Gibson Street
11 Parmenter
46 GIBSON STREET - SEPTIC VARIANCE REQUEST
George Sullivan met with the Board of Behalf of the property owner. This system is in
failure. Though the applicant has a large lot, it contains a significant amount of wetlands.
This forces the leaching area to be designed in an area close to the wetlands and the lot
line. The use of the groundwater offset reduction and barrier minimizes the fill into the
buffer area and keeps it on their lot.
Review of the septic plan also revealed that the high water table and the elevation of the
building sewer place the septic tank outlet below the water table.
After discussion, and on motion by Rabbitt and second by Daniels, the requested
variances were approved with a provision that the installation of a monolithic tank be
required and that the inverts would be sealed with hydraulic cement as recommended by
the Board of Health Agent.
===PAGE 2===
11 PARMENTER - SEPTIC VARIANCE REQUEST
Mr. Mark Farrell met with the Board of behalf of the owner of the property. The
applicant has a failed sewage disposal system (back up into the house). The plumbing
(existing) comes out deep and there is a gentle rise in the property toward the street.
In order to use the existing building sewer the tanks will need to be deeper than allowed
(3' max), the tanks are proposed for 3.5'.
Given the existing building sewer location Agent Jim Garreffi does not see a problem
with the requested local upgrade approval; the tanks will be capable of H-20 loading and
have risers to grade.
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and second by Daniels, the requested variances
were approved. All in favor.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:52 pm.
