===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
December 6, 2010
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Chairman George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell and Jack Rabbitt
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
42 Pearl Brook Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
None
48 NEW WEST TOWNSEND ROAD
Hunter Gelinas met with the board with regarding the above property. The existing well
provides no water. The proposed septic system is fully compliant and does not require
variances. The new well as proposed will be located 10 feet from one property line and
40 feet from the other. This is a vast improvement over the current situation.
After discussion and on motion of Shea and second by Rabbitt, the variance requests
were approved. All in favor.
NEW ENGLAND ORGANICS - JIM TALVY
Jim Talvy met with the board to discuss spreading Class B Sludge on agricultural land,
specifically MacMillan land on Leominster Road. Also present were Rob MacMillian
and Jim Lattanzi.
George Emond spoke with Cheryl Porier at DEP regarding this matter. What is being
proposed is 4% treated waste and 96% short paper waste. Ms. Porier advised that once
this has been discussed at the local level, it would then go to DEP for approval. Finally,
it would come back to the local board for comments.
This material has been used in the past for the reclamation of gravel pits and dump
closures. Inasmuch as most landfills have been closed for some time, they are looking
for new uses for the material. Recycling for agriculture is one use.
After much discussion the board advised that they had now ability to approve or
disapprove the use of this material and that the MacMillians could move forward with
DEP.
===PAGE 2===
DOREEN NOBLE - GRANT FOR EAGLE HOUSE
Doreen Noble met with the board to request a letter of support for a grant application
being prepared. The grant would be used to remove the septic mound behind the senior
center so that the area could be better used, possibly for additional parking.
After discussion and on Motion my Jewell and second by Shea, the request was granted.
All in favor.
A letter of support will be prepared and forwarded to Ms. Noble.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:15 pm.
