===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:
BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
June 21, 2010
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building
Present:
Chairman George Emond, Vice Chairman David Shea, Perry Jewell, Jack
Rabbitt and Troy Daniels
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED:
18 New West Townsend Road
20 Fitch View
611 West Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
452 Hollis Road
6 Beachview
59 Ramgren Road
Reservoir Road
26 Spring Street
64 Maple Parkway
452 HOLLIS ROAD - VARIANCE REQUEST
Tim Beauchemin met with the Board representing the owner of the property. Abutter,
Mrs. Page was also present. This system is in failure due to high ground water. This site
presents a number of restrictions such as high water table, high perc rate and a very smal.
site. This makes full compliance with title 5 and our local regulations unattainable.
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the Board voted
unanimously to approve the requested variances.
111 ROLLING ACRES ROAD - ST. JEAN
Mrs. Bruce St. Jean, property owner, together with Dave Perry, Title 5 Inspector, met
with the board to discuss the above property. A failing Title 5 Inspection report was
completed in November of 2005. The property has sat vacant for the three years prior to
Mr. St. Jean's purchase in March of 2010. Prior to closing Mr. St Jean inspected the
septic system. Mr. St Jean was unaware that a reversal on a failed Title 5 Inspection
report was rare. Mr. St Jean noted that the septic system was working after turning the
power back on and pumping 1,100 gallons of water through it. The current system was
===PAGE 2===
installed in 1997. Mr. Dave Perry, a licensed Title 5 Inspector, completed a new Title 5
Inspection stating that on the date of inspection, the system would pass.
Mr. St. Jean would like the Board to overturn the original failing Title 5 Inspection
Report.
Chairman George Emond has contacted DEP. They indicated that they are not adverse to
using the current system from a period of time (normal use) and then retesting. At the
retest, if the system fails, it would have to be replaced; if it passes it could continue in
use.
After discussion, and on motion by Shea and second by Daniels, it was agreed that an
Enforceable Agreement would be created allowing retesting of this system one year after
occupancy. All in favor.
Mr. St. Jean was asked to be present out the next Board of Health meeting on July 21,
2010, when the agreement would be available.
6 BEACHVIEW DRIVE - VARIANCE REQUEST
George Sullivan met with the board of behalf of the owner. This property has a failed
system and has been vacant for some time. The new owner would like to replace the
existing structure with a new two bedroom house. The site has significant restrictions
due to wetland, high water table and small lot.
After discussion, and on motion by Shea and second by Daniels, variances as present
were approved. All in favor
59 RAMGREN ROAD - VARIANCE REQUEST
George Sullivan met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure and
there is a pending short sale. Due to the high water table on this site a fully compliant
replacement system is not possible. This site is served by town water.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the request was
unanimously approved.
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:15 pm.
