===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
November 7, 2011 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Jack Rabbitt and Perry Jewel l 
 
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
None 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
208 Whalom Road 
225 Northfield Road 
393 Arbor Street 
30-32 Rolling Acres Drive 
107 Leominster Road 
302 West Street 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
176 Sunny Hill Road 
919 Chase Road  
275 Leom/Shirley Rd 
55 Pine Street 
 
In the absence of Chairman Troy Daniels and Vice Chairman David Shea, George Emond chaired the meeting. 
 
 
43 WEST STREET – DESTRUCTION OF SEPTIC PERMIT 
 
George Emond gave the history on this issue.  The f irst Septic System Abandonment Permit was handed ou t in 
conjunction with connection to sewer on the above p roperty.  Upon receipt of the completed permit by t he 
Board of Health office, it was noted that the destr uction of the system was not inspected and not sign ed off on.  
The installer stated that he had called for an insp ection but no one was available.  He could not leav e the trench 
open. 
 
After discussion, it was decided that a letter woul d be sent to the installer advising that due to the  fact that the 
board holds him in high regard, the board would acc ept a certification from him that the system was de stroyed.  
This certification would allow this connection/dest ruction to be completed, however, in the future all  policies 
and procedures would have to be followed. 
 
176 SUNNY HILL ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owne r.  This system is in failure.  Most of the acreage  is in the 
rear of the property which is also wet, may contain  wetlands and slopes upward.  Installing the system  in the 
back would require significant fill and a pump and pump chamber.   
 
What is being proposed is to install the system in the front of the property utilizing a three foot gr oundwater 
offset and the use of a cultec system. 
===PAGE 2===
 
After discussion and on motion by Rabbit and second  by Jewell, the requested variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
919 CHASE ROAD  
 
Neil Gorman met with the board on behalf of the own er.  Also present was Chris Munyon.  Based on the s oil 
testing, this system would be in the water table.  Testing was completed in both the front and rear of the lot. 
 
What is being proposed is to place the new system on the high side of the lot ( at the rear of the property) .  This 
would keep the new system away from the well and we tlands.  The requested reduction in ground water of fset 
will allow the fill to for the new system to remain  on the lot and not encroach on driveway.  The use of a Presby 
system will allow a reduction in the footprint of the system. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the variance was approved.  All in favor. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE 
 
It was decided at the meeting held on October 3, 20 11 that the board would go to a schedule of one mee ting per 
month, to be held on the first Monday of the month,  and other meetings added if necessary.  Administra tive 
Assistant, Andrea Schnepf advised that for her, one meeting a month was not enough to allow for the discussion 
of issues before the board and prevent undue delay for applicants .  
 
After discussion and on Motion by Rabbit and second  by Jewell, it was agreed that the board would agai n meet 
twice per month, on the first and third Mondays.  All in favor. 
 
Nashoba Surety Bond, Audit 
33 Wallis Park 
Central Dispatch 
Deadline to file BOH Applications 
BOH Agents 
MRPC 
357 Electric Avenue 
Emergency Management 
Fallon Bill 
Complaint Log 
 
All of the above matters were continued until the n ext Board of Health meeting on Monday, November 21,  
2011 when all members could be present. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:22 pm.  
 
 
 