===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
February 27, 2012 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell and Dave Passios 
 Agent Jim Garreffi 
 
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
None 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
411 Goodrich 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
697 Flat Hill Road 
 
58 SPRING STREET EXTENSION 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the Board together with th e owner, Mr. Bill  O’Neil.  This system is in failu re.  
This is a small, lake front lot.  Variances for a r eduction in groundwater as well as a reduction in 
separation are being requested.   
 
On December 19, 2011, when this matter was original ly heard, Mr. MacKenzie did not have the required 
proof of notification to abutters.  Chairman Emond told Mr. MacKenzie that lacking proof of notificati on 
of the abutters, the Board could not vote on the pl an, but would nonetheless examine it. Examining the  
proposed plan, it was noted that it utilized a Presby disposal system.    
 
Agent Jim Garreffi recommended in his notes to the Board that his recommendation is that the new 
system serving this property include pre-treatment such as offered by a FAST or Jet system type, due t o 
the proximity to the well and the location of the w ell downgrade of the system.  The Presby does not 
provide pre-treatment of effluent. If pre-treatment  is not provided, Mr. Garreffi is recommending a ti ght 
tank. All Board members present agreed with this as sessment.  Mr. MacKenzie withdrew the request for 
consideration of this plan.  
 
Mr. MacKenzie is again before the Board with the sa me plan utilizing a Presby System and no pre-
treatment.  Mr. MacKenzie did provide the required green cards.  Mr. Mackenzie stated that adding pre-
treatment to the system would add considerable cost .  Agent Garreffi stated that due to the proximity of 
the new system to the surround wells, he is still r ecommending pre-treatment.  Mr. Garreffi further st ated 
that we have to assume that this will become a year  round residence and there is potential to contamin ate 
the surrounding wells. 
 
After further discussion it was decided that the Bo ard has not changed their decision of December 19, 
2011 requiring pre-treatment to be added to this system.   
 
===PAGE 2===
On Motion by Jewell and second by Shea this matter was continued until Monday, March 5, 2012 at 7:00 
pm. 
 
53 EASTERN AVENUE 
 
Russ Wilson of R. Wilson and Associates met with th e board, together with Owner Jim Russell and Bob 
Donal.  This system is in failure.  Like most of Ea stern Avenue, shallow depth to ledge was noted on t he 
property.  Extensive testing was conducted on the l ot, he location of the system is in the area where the 
most soil is available.  The house is served by pub lic water.  The only other alternative would be a t ight 
tank. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the variance was approved.  All in favor. 
 
263 ELMWOOD ROAD  
 
Attorney Louis Levine, together with resident Cindy  Berry Howe and friend Sharon Taylor met with the 
board to discuss business that is being conducted a t 263 Elmwood Road.  Ms. Berry lives at 265 
Elmwood Road and shares a driveway with 263 Elmwood Road. 
 
Mr. Levine stated that Mr. Albertini, of 263 Elmwoo d Road, runs a business called Foam Alone, Inc.  
Because there is a shared driveway, this causes tru cks to travel along the driveway at all hours of th e day 
and night. 
 
According to Attorney Levine and Agent Jim Garreffi , this matter was brought before the Zoning Board 
of Appeals.  Due to a possible conflict of interest  on the part of Lunenburg Building Inspector Mike 
Sauvageau, who lives on Elmwood Road, Ed Cataldo, L eominster Building Inspector conducted the 
inspection on behalf of the Zoning Board of Appeals .  Mr. Cataldo did not find any violations.  The 
zoning Board of Appeals asked for further informati on and Mr. Cataldo provided information sheets.  
Agent Garreffi also provided the Zoning Board of Ap peals with information.  Mr. Levine advised that 
there is no written record of Mr. Cataldo’s inspect ion.  He further advised that he is frustrated with  the 
lack of reports and information available on this matter. 
 
Mr. Levine acknowledged that the Fire Safety Office r made a site visit and found that there were no 
hazardous materials stored on site. Neither the rep ort of Mr. Cataldo nor the Fire Safety Officer were  
available for the Board to review.  Further, Attorn ey Levine provided the Board with a copy of the 
Lunenburg Zoning Regulation that requires disclosur e of hazardous materials to both the Fire Departmen t 
and the Board of Health. 
 
After discussion, it was decided that the Board wou ld request the following information from Mr. 
Albertini: 
 
What material is being used 
How the material is being stored 
How the material is being transported 
What is done with leftover material 
A listing of the chemical composition 
 
Once this information is received, the Board will again review this matter. 
 
Meeting Adjourned 8:42 pm. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Subsequent to the meeting being adjourned, Ms. Lind a Gilmette, tenant at 605 Mulpus Road, addressed 
the board with a request for minutes of the meeting  on February 6, 2012.  The agenda item to approve 
these minutes was not acted on earlier in the eveni ng as the members of the board had not reviewed the  
minutes.  Administrative Assistant, Andrea Schnepf,  was directed to provide Ms. Gilmette with a copy o f 
the minutes marked “draft”. 
 
 
   