===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
January 23, 2012 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell and Dave Passios 
 
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
January 11, 2011 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
56 Cross Road 
202 West Street 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
Elmwood Road, Lot 3 
 
920 LANCASTER ROAD 
 
Chris MacKenzie of Whitman and Bingham as well as B ob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the 
owner.  This system is currently in failure.  The u pgrade is voluntary.  What is being requested is a 
groundwater offset to 3 feet as well as a reduction in the offset from the property line. 
 
This is an existing two bedroom home.   There is a shallow well located in the wetland as well as a ne w 
suction pump in the basement.  Agent Jim Garreffi recommends drilling a new well.   
 
After discussion it was agreed that the current wel l would be allowed to remain under the following 
conditions: 
 
1.  The pump would have to be located in the well; 
2.  Water tests would have to be performed and pass. 
 
After further discussion and on motion by Jewell an d second by Shea, the variances were granted.  All in 
favor. 
 
30 EASTERN AVENUE 
 
Doug Smith met with the board of behalf of the owne r.  Ed Scozik , an abutter of the applicant, was al so 
in attendance. .  This system is in failure.  Like most of Eastern Avenue, shallow depth to ledge was noted 
on the property.  The location of the system is in the area where the most soil is available.  The hou se is 
served by public water.  The only other alternative would be a tight tank. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the variance was approved.  All in favor. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
WALLIS PARK  
 
There is still no determination of whether or not t he Wallis Park properties have been connected to se wer.  
Administrative Assistant, Andrea Schnepf, will speak to the parties involved and report back to the board. 
 
64 SPRING STREET EXTENSION  
 
In April of 2010, the owner of this property came before the board to discuss making this camp into a year 
‘round residence.  As part of that approval, the board required that the second residence on the property be 
“stripped down” to studs so that it could not be us ed as a residence in the future but only for storag e 
purposes.   
 
At this point in time, the tight tank has been inst alled and the camp renovated into a year ‘round 
residence.  The board is being asked when they are requiring that the second residence be converted in to 
storage space. 
 
After a review of the original minutes, it was dete rmined that the additional residence must be conver ted 
into storage space prior to a Certificate of Occupancy being issued. 
   
Meeting adjourned at 8:10 pm. 