===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
February 6, 2012 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell Jack  Rabbitt and Dave Passios 
 
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
January 23, 2012 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
304 Lancaster Avenue 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
920 Lancaster Avenue 
 
111 ROLLING ACRES ROAD 
 
Administrative Assistant, Andrea Schnepf, advised that the owner, Bruce St. Jean has applied for 
a building permit to construct a garage.  The Enfor ceable Agreement executed in September of 
2010 stated that no additional construction could o ccur.  Mr. St. Jean had a new Title 5 
completed on February 4, 2012 and the system passed  inspection.  Agent Jim Garreffi approved 
and signed the building permit subject to the Board ’s approval.  Mr. St. Jean would like to 
remove the Enforceable Agreement from the property. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and secon d by Rabbitt, it was agreed that a garage 
would be an allowed addition as there is no additio nal living space being created.  Further, if Mr. 
St. Jean could provide the Board with information a s to when the house was occupied and it 
satisfied the conditions as set out it the Enforcea ble Agreement, the Board would consider 
removing same.  All in favor.   
 
605 MULPUS ROAD 
 
Board of Health Agent, Jim Garreffi, met with the b oard to discuss an ongoing housing 
complaint at 605 Mulpus Road.   Mr. Garreffi stated  that there is no standard for mold.  He 
further stated that mold is secondary to the proble m causing moisture and the cause of the 
moisture is cited in complaints.  Mr. Garreffi gave  a summary of the issues at the address as well 
as the work that had been completed.  Mr. Garreffi also provided the board with a letter received 
from the Department of Public Health regarding mold as it relates to regulations.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Garreffi stated that he had contacted the tenan t’s attorney on three occasions to gain access 
for re-inspection and had received no response .  Mr. Garreffi is asking the board for a letter to be 
served requiring access to the property for this re -inspection.  After reviewing this information 
the board view is consistent with the action taken by Mr. Garreffi. 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the board v oted to prepare and serve correspondence 
requiring access to the premises for re-inspection.  All in favor. 
   
Meeting adjourned at 8:25 pm. 