===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
September 17, 2012
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell, Jack Rabbitt, Dave Passios
MINUTES APPROVED:
None
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
245 Leominster Road
15 Old Farm Road
34 Pleasant Street
424 Page Street
51 Cross Road
628 West Street
438 Lancaster Avenue
62 West Street Terrace
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
455 Mass Avenue
820 Reservoir Road
51 Cross Road
455 MASS AVENUE
This facility is to become a donut shop with drive-through and takeout service only. There will
be no on site consumption of the pastry. Donuts will be brought into the building from the
owners other facility. There will be no baking on the property.
Chris MacKenzie and Jamie Rheault met with the board to present the upgraded system plan for
this property. What is being proposed is a Presby Innovative system with a grease trap and 3
compartment septic tank. They are requesting a reduction in groundwater and a sieve analysis in
place of a perc test.
In his comments, Agent Jim Garreffi stated that if the Board considers this to be a change of use,
it would require a fully compliant system. In order to fully comply, the plan would require a
reserve area, no reduction is groundwater offset and the use of a sieve analysis would not be
allowed.
===PAGE 2===
Chairman George Emond stated that since there was evidence that the building had once been a
Cumberland Farms outlet and that he had spoken with DEP and was informed that the decision
of whether it was a change of use or not was up to the board.
Perry Jewell stated that he believed that this matter had been discussed at a prior meeting and it
was determined that there would be no seating inside the building and therefore minimal use of
the toilet facilities.
Based on discussion of the Board at previous meeting and after discussion, on Motion by Shea
and second by Jewell, the Board voted to approve the variances and allow this system to be
installed as a replacement system.
46 FIRE ROAD 12
David Osoff met with the Board to discuss a well permit issued and approved in 2007.
According to notes provided by Agent Jim Garreffi, variances were approved for the installation
of the well. Mi. Osoff state that the well had to be put on "hold" due to financial reasons but
they are now in a position to install. Nothing has changed at this property since the original
permit was issued. Mr. Osoff is asking that the board reaffirm the original variances.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the Board reaffired the variances
approved in 2007. All in favor.
ARO ESTATES
Owner Kevin O'Brien together with Chris MacKenzie and Jamie Rheault met with the board to
discuss possible development plans for the Aro Estates property on Howard Street.
What is now being proposed is 10 separate subdivisions on parcels that are less than 25 acres
each. Mr. O'Brien stated that he has provided the Planning Board with copies of the plans in the
last week and they are waiting for a determination from Legal Counsel as to how to proceed.
They have not officially filed with the Planning Board. Mr. O'Brian provided the Board of
Health members with copies of what is being proposed.
Mr. O'Brien is meeting with the Board to ask if full septic testing will be required on all lots
prior to getting approval on the preliminary subdivision. Limited testing has been completed on
portions of the property.
Chairman Emond asked if this is planned as individual, traditional, subdivisions. Mr. O'Brian
stated that the lots would be 40,000 square feet and would be served by septic systems and
private wells.
After discussion, the Board determined that they would not require testing on each individual lot
until such time as a septic system was to be installed. Title S regulations require a fully
compliant septic system that is variance free for each lot, otherwise the lot would be deemed
unbuildable by the Board. Private wells are to be installed variance free. Should Mr. O'Brien
===PAGE 3===
wish to proceed at his own risk, knowing that some lots may not be able to support a fully
compliant septic system and well, they did not object.
Chairman stated that when Mr. O'Brien formally files his plans with the Planning Board he is
also required to file same with the Board of Health. At that time the Board of Health will
formally respond to the subdivision submission and will send that response directly to Mr.
O'Brien as well as notify the Planning Board of its findings.
6 OAKRIDGE ROAD
Mr. Patel met with the Board to discuss outstanding housing violations as the above address.
Mr. Patel stated that he believes that he has completed all the necessary work at this time and is
awaiting a final inspection from agent, Jim Garreffi.
After discussion, the board advised that since it was ready for re-inspection, Agent Garreffi
would report back to the board. If there are unaddressed issues, the board will rehear the matter.
WEST NILE AND EEE
Chairman Emond advised that since meeting last, West Nile Virus Mosquitos had been found in
two test traps in Lunenburg. This positive testing required mosquito spraying, through the
Mosquito Control Program, in certain areas of town. Spraying was primarily in the Whalom
District. It was also decided that spraying would take place for the Town Bonfire and early
season football games.
Chairman Emond further advised that this process required an Emergency Waiver under a Public
Health Emergency. This was very necessary in order to spray the school grounds. In addition,
Fire Chief P. Sullivan was extremely cooperative in helping to coordinate the reverse 911 to
residents to advise of spraying.
111 ROLLING ACRES ROAD
Mr. Bruce St. Jean, owner of the property, has requested a release of the Enforceable Agreement
dated August 20, 2010 with regard to the current septic system. Mr. St. Jean provided the board
with the information necessary to release the agreement.
A letter of release was prepared by Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf. After discussion
and on Motion by Shea and second by Jewell, the letter of release was signed. All in favor.
Having no other business before the board, the meeting adjourned at 8:05 pm.
