===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
November 5, 2012
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell, Jack Rabbitt and Dave Passios
MINUTES APPROVED:
None
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
69 Graham Street
146 Youngs Road
779 West Street
124 Northfield Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
54-58 Spring Street
994 Northfield Road
54 STREET - VARIANCE REQUEST.
Chris Mac Kenzie met with the Board on behalf of the owner to request variances to Title V and
Local Regulations as follows: Foundation setback, well setback, reduction of number of test
holes. This system is in failure. Discussion centered around the existence of a possible well at 61
Spring Street shown on the plan as closest to the proposed system. No record of the constructior
of a well at this point can be found although the current owner states that it exists. The owner of
54-58 Spring Street has been told that a different well served three properties in the past and that
an artesian well was installed on one of them when a new system was installed. More research
will be done to locate these wells.
On motion by Dave Shea and seconded by Jack Rabbitt, the request was approved and also send
a letter to 61 Spring Street recommending that he have a water test performed since his septic
system is close to the point where he believes his well is. All in favor.
994 Northfield Road (Maplewood Golf Course)
Doug Smith, Soilsmith Designs and William Gustus (Purchasing the property) met with the
board to request variances to Title V and local regulations for use of Sieve Analysis (wet
groundwater), over 100 feet from tank to leaching area (forced main), Innovative system.
===PAGE 2===
This system is in failure (high groundwater). The property is a public Golf Course with a three
bedroom house and a 32 seat snack bar. The replacement system would be the same size as the
existing one. The snack bar currently serves beer and wine, steamed hot dogs and pre-packaged
snack type foods. Mr. Gustus said that he would like to install a small grill and a fryolater in the
future so he could expand the menu to include hamburgers, and other light foods and French
fries. The new system is designed with a grease trap as well as a tank. Agent Jim Gareffi has
indicated in his notes to the Board that he does not believe this is possible. Chairman Emond
was uncertain of this since Title V flow for a snack bar is 10 gallons per seat with no definition
of a Snack Bar is included. He will contact DEP tomorrow for clarification.
On a motion by Perry Jewell, seconded by David Passios, the requests were approved. All in
favor.
ARO ESTATE SUBDIVISIONS
Chairman Emond informed the Board that plans for the proposed Aro Estates on Howard Street
had been submitted to the Board. As to a previous discussion with the proponents of the project
the plans were submitted without septic system designs or well locations. Agent Jim Gareffi
reviewed the plans and his review found no problems with the design as it applies to Board of
Health jurisdiction. Agent Gareffi also provided an initial list of requirements for the project as
they will apply to those regulations that are under Board of Health authority. The Chairman has
prepared a draft letter to the Planning Board and the submitter for the Boards review. Motion
was made by Jack Rabbitt and seconded by David Shea to send the letter as written. All in favor.
Meeting adjourned 8:15 PM.
