===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
August 20, 2012
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell, Jack Rabbitt, Dave Passios
MINUTES APPROVED:
July 16, 2012 On motion by Shea and second by Passios, Minutes approved. All in favor.
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
268 Flat Hill
91 Turkey Hill
146 Arbor Street
715 Page Street
780 West Street
353 Lancaster Ave
15 Pine Acres Road
99 Lancaster Avenue
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
1340 Lancaster Avenue
47 Beachview
21 Ramgren
5 West Townsend Road
20 West Street Terrace
1340 LANCASTER AVENUE
Bob Proctor met with the Board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. Due to the
location of the well and wetlands on the property, the system has been designed to keep fill from
the wetlands and the greatest distance from the well. A 133 foot forced main will also be
utilized.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the variances were approved.
All in favor.
58 SPRING STREET EXTENSION
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. A new plan has been submitted.
The current structure is being replaced by a new 3 bedroom house. The footprint of the new
===PAGE 2===
structure is slightly different and allows for a better tank location and a reduction in the number
of variances necessary by one. The location of the septic system is staying the same.
On motion by Shea and second by Jewell, the variances were approved. All in favor.
141 WOODLAND DRIVE
Walter Godfried met with the board of behalf of the owner. An additional bathroom is being
proposed. Many years ago testing was done for a new system on this site. The soil testing
indicated that the existing system is in the water table, however the new system was not installed
and there have been no complaints on this property.
After discussion the board approved the request as an additional bathroom does not count as a
room in Title 5. No additional rooms will be allowed by the Board of Health.
47 BEACHVIEW
This system is in failure. This is a small site and surrounded by wells. Because of th
roundwater clevation noted during soil testing, the new system will be about the ground. Th
reduction in groundwater offset will allow the fill to remain on the site. The area is served by
town water.
On motion by Rabbitt and second by Shea, the variance was granted. All in favor.
21 RAMGREN ROAD
This system is in failure. Soil testing was completed. This lot is narrow, the system will be sited
uphill of the house. The requested reduction in groundwater offset will help with grading.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the variance was approved. All in
favor.
5 WEST TOWNSEND ROAD
The current septic system on this lot is in the groundwater. Soil testing has been completed. A
reduction in groundwater offset will allow the grading to remain on the site and be served by
gravity.
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Passios, the variance was approved. All
in favor.
20 WEST STREET TERRACE
Bob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. This is a small
lot with a high water table. The property is served by public water. A perc test was not possible
===PAGE 3===
as the ground was too wet. Applicant is requesting a reduction in groundwater and sieve
analysis.
After discussion and on motion my Jewell and second by Shea, the board approved the request
with the stipulation that swales be placed along the property lines. All in favor.
Having no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:15 pm
