===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBERGING MENOT BEA.TH
June 4, 2012
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell and Dave Passios
MINUTES APPROVED:
April 23, 2012
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
424 Page Street
53 Eastern Avenue
Goodrich Street, Lot 3
Goodrich Street, Lot 1
384 Townsend Harbor Road
424 Page Street
11 Rangeley Road
457 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
Mr. Ramondelli, owner of the property, together with Mr. Karapatsas, the prospective buyer of
the property met with the board to discuss the replacement of the septic system. Also present
was Gary Sheppard of Ross Associates and Bob Proctor.
This property is the former Showroom Sammy's, a used car dealership. The property is small
with a 783 square foot building containing office space, a bay area for light cleaning of cars and
an employee restroom. Mr. Karapatsas stated that what he would like to do is convert the
===PAGE 2===
building into a drive-thru donut/coffee shop (no donuts will be prepared on site). There will be
no customer seating or public use of the bathroom.
The current septic permit indicated that the system was installed for service station and, at some
period in the past there was a Cumberland Farms retail store on this site. The coffee/Donut shop
would be required to have a food service permit. CMR10.315 (Title 5) requires a sewage
disposal system be designed to handle 1,000 gallon/day. However, provisions do exist for
smaller systems with proof (water meter readings from similar use establishments) for granting a
variance to this requirement. Mr. Karapatsas did not have plans of his proposal for the board to
review.
Chairman Emond stated that he has spoken with DEP who advised that if Mr. Karapatsas
provided the Board with the water usage from similar establishments, the board would be able
to grant a variance as to the size of the system as noted above. Further, that Mr. Karapatsas has
to provide the board with a business plan and use of the property before they can entertain a
variance.
Provided that these conditions are met, the Board stated that they would be willing to work with
the owner to install an adequate system.
Mr. Sheppard asked if this could be viewed as a repair of the current system. Chairman Emond
stated that it could not be viewed as a repair because of the change of use and that the current
system does not fully comply with current Title V requirements.
Time was requested at the next Board of Health meeting to continue the discussion.
605 MULPUS ROAD
Owner Marion Brandt met with the Board to request and extension of time for the required
repairs on the rental property. Ms. Brandt stated that she and the tenant had reached an
agreement and the tenant would be vacating the property by June 15"h. Ms. Brandt stated that it
would be difficult to complete the repairs with the tenant still in residence.
On motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the board voted to grant an extension on the time to
repair until the tenant has vacated. The property cannot be re-occupied until the deficiencies
have been corrected. All in favor.
11 SPRING STREET
The Board issued a permit for a new well in 2003 as part of a replacement septic system. The
permit required variances from local well regulations and a local upgrade approval from Title 5.
However, at that time, the Board allowed the continued use of the existing well after testing
showed it was safe for human consumption and the new well was not installed.
===PAGE 3===
The new owner, Scott Patterson, would like to install the proposed well and, given the amount of
time since the original permit was issued, this is before the board to affirm the original permit
including the variances.
On motion by Passios and second by Jewell, variances granted. All in favor.
KERRY SPEIDEL
Town Administrator, Kerry Speidel, met with the Board to discuss funding for the department
for the upcoming fiscal year. Ms. Speidel stated that due to the concerns of the board, the
administrative position would not be a shared position but would continue to be a standalone
department. Hours for the administrative assistant would be cut from 30 hours per week to 26
hours per week. Ms. Speidel advised that this was accomplished by reducing a position in the IT
department.
The Board thanked Ms. Speidel for her consideration and exhausting work.
11 RANGELEY ROAD
Steve Marsden and Bob Proctor met with the Board on behalf of the owner. This system is in
failure. The site has significant challenges to installing a fully compliant system. There is an
elevated water table as well as a lack of 4 feet of pervious soil. The system, as proposed, is in
the best location on the site but requires variances for groundwater offset and sieve analysis. In
addition, the fill needed for the system crosses the property line onto the shoulder of the road, or
Town property.
Permission from the Town as well as a vote at Town meeting is required for am easement for the
On motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the variances were approved. All in favor.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Board of Health voted unanimously to appoint George Emond as Chairman, Perry Jewell as
Vice-Chairman and David Shea as Secretary of the Board.
SHADY POINT BEACH AND CAMP
The Board reviewed and unanimously approved the annual request for the use of portable
facilities at Shady Point Campground.
Meeting adjourned 8:15 pm
