===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
April 23, 2012 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell, Jac k Rabbitt and Dave Passios 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
April 2, 2012 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
None 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
3 Sequoia Drive, Lot 3 
31 Reservoir Road 
4 Sequoia Drive, Lot 8 
Sequoia Drive, Lot 1 
 
141 CANTERBURY DRIVE 
 
Contractor Phil Grib, together with owner Ingrid He lmer met with the board to discuss building an 
addition to this home.  The home has a four bedroom  septic system and currently has four bedrooms with  
a total of 9 rooms.  What is being proposed is an a ddition to include a great room, study and a sun ro om.  
This would bring the total number of possible bedrooms above the allowed four. 
 
The owner asked if a deed restriction could be plac e on the home limiting it to four bedrooms.  Chairm an 
George Emond explained that the only instance where  a deed restriction is considered by the board is i f 
the room count is existing.  It would not be considered for new construction. 
 
After discussion, it was determined that the buildi ng permit would be signed if the openings to the st udy 
and sun room were opened up to be greater than four  feet and no doors were placed on the opening (case d 
opening).  It this way, there would be no “privacy”  in these rooms. 
 
The owner agreed to this revision.  The building permit was signed subject to the agreed revisions. 
 
425 LEOMINSTER ROAD  
 
The property owner, Mike Hayes met with the board t o discuss putting and addition onto this home.  
Currently, this home has a three bedroom and a tota l of seven rooms.  What is being proposed to add a 
den with a bedroom over.  One current bedroom would  be removed to allow the addition but keep the 
bedroom count at three. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion, the board allowed the addition pr ovided that the openings to the existing office and  den, 
which currently qualify as bedrooms under Title V, have at least four foot cased openings.  There can be 
no further additions to this home without the upgrade of the septic system. 
 
KERRY SPEIDEL  
 
Town Administrator, Kerry Speidel, met with the boa rd to discuss the budget and upcoming changes to 
hours and personal for the land boards.  Ms. Speide l provided the board with a number of different 
alternatives for the staffing of the land boards based on the funds available. 
 
The Board noted that the Board of Health Administra tive Assistant is not funded, in its present form, in 
either balanced budget or the override budget shoul d it be passed.  At best, it is funded at 20 hours per 
week as a combined position. 
 
Chairman George Emond stated that the board believe s that in order to complete their responsibilities as 
charged by law, the Board of Health needs to be a s eparate entity with a dedicated Administrative 
Assistant and not a combined position.  Further, th at according to statute, the Board has the power to  
appoint and set the salary of their employees.  Als o that the two positions that are being reduced fin d it 
difficult to accomplish all that is necessary in th e time allotted and to reduce it more would make it  
impossible to complete the necessary tasks. 
 
After discussion, the Board advised that all positi ons in the land boards should be equal with all pos itions 
being retained and available hours divided equally between the four administrative assistants.  Under the 
balanced budget this would mean that each administr ative assistant would work 27.5 hours.    Vice-
Chairman, Perry Jewell, stated that with an overrid e of this magnitude, should it pass, all positions should 
be re-instated.  If they cannot all be reinstated t o their present level, the available hours should b e divided 
equally between the four administrative assistants, with each working 30 hours per week. 
 
Ms. Speidel stated that she would take this under advisement. 
 
35 BOUCHER ROAD 
 
Greg and Lori Menafo, owners, met with the board to  request putting an addition on their home.  
Currently, this is a split ranch with three bedroom s and a finished basement.  There is an additional 
bathroom in the basement.  What is being proposed i s the additional of a great room with a garage 
underneath and a master bedroom.  One original bedroom would be eliminated to keep the bedroom count 
at three.  With the lower level of the home being f inished to include a bathroom, the Chairman, George  
Emond, advised Mr. and Mrs. Menafo that they were a lready over the limit for what could be considered 
bedrooms and total rooms in the home.  The finishin g of the basement was done with a permit and signed  
off on by the Board of Health Agent at the time. 
 
After a lengthy discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the board voted to place a 
deed restriction on the property limited same to th ree bedrooms.  Once the deed restriction is signed and 
recorded, the building permit for the addition can be signed.  There can be no further additions to th is 
house.  All in favor. 
 
LOT 1, SEQUOIA DRIVE  
 
Owner Dan Pierce and Chris MacKenzie of Whitman and  Bingham met with the board to discuss an 
expired septic permit on the above lot.  The well i n question is the original well that was on this si te prior 
===PAGE 3===
to subdivision.  The Well is 39 feet from the prope rty line.  Mr. Pierce is asking that the variances that 
were originally granted for this lot be granted again.  The variances requested are: 
 
Inter-fingering of the reserves trenches and well l ess than 50 feet from a property line and a public way, 
39 feet is proposed. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Rabbitt, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned 8:55 pm 
 
   