===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
May 20, 2013
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman George Emond at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell, Jack Rabbit and Dave Passios. Also present,
Bob Ebersole, Selectmen
MINUTES APPROVED:
None
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
43 Hemlock Terrace
1389 Robbs Hill Road
138 Beal Street
38 Oak Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
311 Pleasant Street
Re-Organization of the Board
Motion made by Dave Passios to continue with the board and officers as in our previous year, second
by Rabbitt, all in favor.
George Emond, Chairman
Perry Jewell, Vice-Chairman
Dave Shea - Clerk
ARO ESTATES
The results of the soil testing was received by Agent Jim Garreffi. Any compounds found were within
acceptable limits. Chairman George Emond signed the Demolition Permit Application on behalf of the
Board of Heath.
189 WILDWOOD ROAD
The Board received a last minute request for a further continuance from the proponents until June 3,
2013 at 7:00 pm.
An abutter and two other area residents were unaware of the continuance and requested permission to
comment on the issue.
===PAGE 2===
Courtney Zivojinovic, an abutter, Mr. Phil Moore, and Jerry Croto, concerned area residents, were
unaware of the continuance and who came to observe the hearing and make comments asked to be
heard for the record nonetheless, which request was allowed by the Board.
Mr. Zivojinovic asked who would be responsible if something happens to his yard as a result of this
variance being approved and a residence being constructed on this lot? Chairman Emond stated that
no decision on this variance has been made. Dave Shea stated asked if Mr. Zivojinovic has looked at
the 100 year storm plan. This situation is unpredictable and it would be hard to determine if something
happened how would be at fault.
Mr. Moore stated that he feels that 100 year storm plan is no longer appropriate that our weather is
changing and becoming more dramatic. He stated that if this variance is approved there will be
construction on very wet property and he is concerned as to where the displaced water is going to flow,
in this case downhill and toward the existing houses. Mr. Moore asked that the board be very
conservative in their decision making and keep in mind how the development of this lot will affect the
existing, surrounding properties. Mr. Moore suggested that a tight tank might be appropriate in this
case.
CAMP DAVID
Discussion on this matter was continued until June 3, 2013
311 PLEASANT STREET
Shawn and Katie Collette met with the Board, the prospective new owners of this property. Mr.
Colette stated that this is a bank owned property and the Collette's mortgage lender is requiring the
septic system be repaired prior to closing. Variances being requested are the use of a sieve analysis as
well as a reduction in groundwater offset from four feet to three feet.
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Jewell, the board approved the variances. All
in favor.
551 GOODRICH STREET
The owner of the property met with the board with regard to adding a restroom in the basement of his
home. Research done by Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf as well as agent Jim Garreffi
determined that there is currently a 3 bedroom septic permit on this house and a possibility of 4
bedrooms in the house according to local regulations.
At the very least, a 1,500 gallon septic tank would have to be installed in order to bring the system up
to code and add the additional rest room.
===PAGE 3===
After discussion, the board voted to sign the building permit for the addition of the restroom with the
requirement that a 3 bedroom deed restrict be place on the property.
On motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the permit was signed.
SHADY POINT BEACH AND CAMPGROUND
The Board reviewed and unanimously approved the annual request for the use of portable facilities at
Shady Point Campground.
Meeting adjourned 8:10 PM.
