===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
March 4, 2013
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman George Emond at the Ritter Memorial
Building
Present:
George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell
MINUTES APPROVED:
February 4. 2013
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
356 Sunset Lane
552 West Townsend Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
43 Island Road
62 West Street Terrace
651 RESERVOIR ROAD
Chris MacKenzie met with the Board on behalf of the owner. This is a voluntary upgrade. This
lot is lakefront and very small making it very difficult to site a new system. Although there is
public water on Reservoir Road, this lot does not have frontage on Reservoir Road. The system
being proposed, (Presby) is sited to provide the greatest distance possible from the affected wells
and wetlands.
After discussion and on motion by Shea and seconded by Jewell, the board voted to approve the
variances with the following conditions:
1. The well at 651 Reservoir Road as well as the abutter well affected by the installation of
this system must be tested for Nitrates, Ammonia and Coliform Bacteria to establish a
baseline and a report provided to the Board. If the results are not satisfactory, treatment
or other action may be required and retesting will be necessary. Retesting of these wells
must be done one year after installation;
2. Upon the sale of the property, the water must be tested. If the results are not satisfactory,
the property must be connected to town water. All in favor.
===PAGE 2===
CAMP DAVID
Perry Jewell asked about the status of Camp David. It was requested that an update on Camp
David be provided by the Board's Agent for the next Board of Health meeting on March 18,
2013.
ARO ESTATES
Chairman George Emond stated that he would like to look into the possibility that the Board
request soil analysis for the presence of dangerous chemicals on the Aro Estate Property. After
discussion, Chairman Emond directed Admin Asst. Andrea Schnepf to look at what might have
been requested on other agricultural properties and report back to the board.
Meeting adjourned 8:20 PM.
