===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
October 7, 2013
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman George Emond at the Ritter Memorial
Building
Present:
George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell. Dave Passios and Agent Jim Garreffi.
Also present, Bob Ebersole, Selectman
MINUTES APPROVED:
July 15, 2013
August 19, 2013
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
35 Easter Brook
423 NW Townsend
167 Island Road
72 Broadmeadow
960 Flathill Road
199 Cross Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
231/251 West Street
145 Page Street
520 Howard Street
Chase Road Lot C
Chase Road Lot B
241 Mulpus Road
163 ISLAND ROAD
Nick Pauling of GPR together with owner Joe Levine met with the board. This hearing is
continued from the September 16, 2013 meeting. An injector pump has been added to the
system in the basement of the structure. Agent Jim Garreffi has reviewed and approved the
revised plan.
Mr. Pauling is requesting a reduction in groundwater offset from four feet to two feet [310 CMR
15.284 11.5(b) and Lunenburg Regulations Article TV, Section 4(a)], a reduction in the required
twelve inch separation between the inlet and outlet tee [310 CMR 15.405(1 (i) and an increase in
===PAGE 2===
the maximum allowable depth of a system component from thirty -six inches to seventy-two
inches [310 CMR 15.284 11.5(b).
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that he is not in favor of the reduction in cover (soils) over the lanks
due to the fact that at the increased depth, the tanks would be sitting in groundwater. Mr. Emond
stated that over time, the groundwater could weaken the tank structure and decrease the life of
the septic system. Mr. Garreffi has requested that the tanks be moved to the rear of the current
structurc.
Owner, Joe Levine, stated that he does not want the tanks moved from their current location due
to the topography of the lot and aesthetics for the new home.
It was suggested by Mr. Pauling that an injector pump be used which would allow the tanks to be
raised. Mr. Pauling also stated that Mr. Garreffi had not had an opportunity to see the revised
plan that he currently was discussing with the board
After discussion, the board members indicated that they would be open to the use of an injector
pump which would allow the tanks to remain in their current location, however, inasmuch as
Agent Jim Garreffi has not had an opportunity to review the current plan, the board continued
this matter until their next meeting on October 7" at 7:00 pm.
31 PARMENTER ROAD
Roland Leger met with the board of behalf of his mother, the owner of the property. The well
serving this property ran dry. An application was submitted to Agent Jim Garreffi with a sketch
for the new well location. Agent Garreffi met with the owner and well driller to verify the
location for the new well. Mr. Garreffi also reviewed plans for locations of abutting septic
systems.
In order to maintain the 100 foot distance from abutting septic systems, il was necessary to place
the well ten feet from the property line and five feet from the road which is closer to the properly
line than is noted in Lanenburg Well Regulation 4.1. This well has been drilled due to the
emergency nature.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the variance for offset to
property lines was approved. All in favor.
380 SUNSET LANE
===PAGE 3===
Anthony Cleaves met with the board on behalf of the owner. Also present was Mr. Arthur
Burke, owner of 376 Sunset Lane. At his last meeting with the board a site for a new well was
discussed and approved. Since that time, a secondary well site has been located on the other side
of the property. Mr. Burke stated that he has some concerns with the original well site and its
proximity to his property line and his well.
Due to the site conditions (narrow lot, wetlands and steep slope) both the original well location
and the secondary well location are appropriate locations due to the location of the proposed new
septic system on this lot as well as the surrounding lots [Lunenburg Well Regulation 4.1].
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Passios the two possible well locations
were approved. The final location being determined after Mr. Cleaves meets with the
Conservation Commission. All in favor.
376 SUNSET LANE
Anthony Cleaves, together with Arthur Burke met with the board to discuss the possibility of
drilling a new well on Mr. Burke's lot at the same time as the new well was being drilled on the
abutting well at 380 Sunset Lane. Mr. Burke has not made a final decision on whether or not he
will be drilling a new well but wishes to be prepared if he decides to do so.
What is being proposed is a new well in the same general location as the existing well. What is
being requested is a reduction in the offset to property line from 50 feet to 6 feet running parallel
to the 380 Sunset Lane property line and no further than 10 feet southeast from the present
location of the well as shown on the plan presented to the board [Lunenburg Well Regulation
4.1].
After discussion and on Motion by Rabbit and second by Shea, the variance to property line was
approved. All in favor.
Having no other business before the board, meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.
