===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
May 6, 2013
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman George Emond at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell, Jack Rabbit and Dave Passios.
MINUTES APPROVED:
March 18, 2013 motion by Shea, second by Jewell, all in favor.
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
45 Penninsula Drive
563 Mass Avenue
172 Peninsula Drive
160 Burrage Street
158 Electric Avenue
305 Leominster Shirley Road - Fail
585 Page Street
55 Brookview Terrace
227 Pleasant Street
120 Robbs Hill Road
405 NW Townsend Road
122 Cross Street
964 Flat Hill Road
145 Pleasant Street
129 Pleasant Street
291 Lancaster Avenue
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
155 Island Road
89 WILDWOOD ROAD
Tim Maginnis and Todd Cellura met with the Board with regard to this property and a requested
variance from a Lunenburg Board of Health regulation concerning offset to wetlands. Also present
were Courtney Zicvoginovic, abutter, and Jerry Croto, an area resident.
This lot is vacant. Mr. Maginnis stated that he received a letter from Agent Jim Garreffi requiring
revisions to the septic plan very recently and were unable to complete the revisions and resubmit the
plan prior to attending tonight's meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Chairman Emond read Agent Garreffi's comments regarding the plan as submitted. Dave Shea asked
for an explanation as to Mr. Garreffi's concerns regarding a fully compliant system. Mr. Maginnis
stated that he believes that in accordance with DEP Title 5 Regulations he has prepared a fully
compliant system and will protect the groundwater of this site. He also stated that he previous worked
for DEP.
The site is small, approximately 13,000 square feet in area and is noted as being unbuildable by the
Lunenburg Assessors office. According to Chapter 40, Section 6 of Mass. Regulations, the lot would
be 'grandfathered' for zoning purposes because of other actions taken by the Legislature in the past.
The Board explained to Mr. Maginnis that the purpose of the Lunenburg 100 foot offset regulation is to
minimize the potential impacts on the waterways of the Town for replacement septic systems for
existing systems that have failed, since many houses are still on private well and the Town water is
drawn mostly from gravel well fields. The regulation allows the Board to examine, in greater detail,
sewage disposal systems located near wetlands to insure the best possible protection of the
environment and the groundwater. Variances to this regulation for new construction are very rarely
granted.
After discussion and due to the fact that Agent Jim Garreffi has not had an opportunity to review the
plan as revised, this matter was continued until May 20, 2013 at 7:00 pm.
Mr. Zivoginovic, an abutter to the property, stated that is he concerned about granting the requested
variance both as it may affect his property and as a precedent to other small, undevelopable properties
in Lunenburg.
Mr. Croto stated that he wants to understand the current policy of the town with regard to granting
variances. Mr. Croto gave a history of the development of his lots as well as the surrounding lots and
stated that he is concerned about the Board setting a precedent.
ARO ESTATES
Chairman Emond advised that although the required testing has been completed by Mr. O'Brien and
Agent Jim Garreffi, the results are no yet available for review.
This matter was continued until May 20, 2013.
Meeting adjourned 8:05 PM.
