===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
.....
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
September 15, 2014
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Members in Attendance:
George Emond
Perry Jewell
David Passios
Paul Fortin
79 West Street Terrace
Bob Proctor met with the Board of behalf of the owner. The septic system for this site would be
in failure based on seasonal high water table. The site if flat with high groundwater and the lot is
small. New installation requires variances to the number of test holes required within the
proposed system and an offset between the bottom of the leach, trenches and high groundwater
point from 4 feet to 3 feet. After reviewing the plan with the engineer and recommendation by
the Board Agent, the variances were approved unanimously:
73 Pine Grove
Chris MacKenzie and Dan Proctor met with the Board of behalf of the owner. System in failure
(discharge to the surface of the ground was noted). The site is small, the water table is high and
there are wetlands in the back yard. The replacement system plan requires a variance to the
offset between the bottom of the system and the high groundwater table from 4 feet to 3 feet in
the leaching area and tank outlets. After discussion with the engineer the Board determined that
the plan was the best possible solution and approved the requested variance unanimously.
71 Brookview Terrace
Chris MacKenzie met with the Board on behalf of the owner. The septic system for this property
is in failure. Though the lot is large, it has significant wetlands and there is no area on the site
where a replacement system could be placed that is 100 feet from the wetlands. The soil is good
throughout the area (gravel) and there are no other issues. Requested variances were the distance
from the leach area to wetlands and reduction of number of test holes required. Vartances
approved unanimously.
installato:
within the
! groundi
25 Eastern Avenue
Well Discussion. Mr. LaFortune, owner of the property, met with the Board. A Title's
inspection of this property disclosed that the well servicing the facility was 70 feet from the
septic system and the water test showed the level of Nitrates as being in excess of 5pm. The
owner had more tests done that were slightly less than Sppm and asked it they would suttice.
Title 5 requires that wells that are 50 to 100 feet of a septic system with an excess of 5pm at
time of testing fus the system and the failure cannot be altered. "The current owner knew of thie
81:T
===PAGE 2===
uld sui
problem when he purchased the property and was informed by the Board Agent that acceptable
solutions would be to either connect to the Lunenburg Water District or drill a new well at least
100 feet from the septic system: The area is noted for high groundwater and shallow depth to
ledge. The owner will pursue drilling a new well as the best solution.
684 Flat Hill Road
Paul Bertrand, owner of the property, met with the Board. The well on this property has been
failing to provide adequate water for the occupants. The owner was asked to come to this
meeting with an update on progress in replacing the well. The well driller is on the property and
is currently drilling the new well. Once done, volume will be tested and if insufficient, fracking
will be performed. We will be kept apprised of progress and results.
Minutes were approved.
Discussion of Well Regulations modification postponed until October meeting.
Septid Systent Permits were signed
Title 5 Inspection Reports were reviewed.
and sinon he ru
it accer.:
/well ei
how depte
Bat BuiLde
. i..:
.:3.
sun Paper is
