===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
February 3, 2014
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Shea and Dave Passios
MINUTES APPROVED:
January 3, 2013
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
none
• 3.
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
260 Lancaster Avenue
10 Tilton Avenue
40 PAGE STREEL
The owner of this property installed a well on this property and used an existing stone wall as the property
line. A fifty (50) foot offset is required. As it turned out, the stone wall was not the property line and the
well is forty-three (43) feet from the actual property line.
The owner has this property for sale and has a buyer that would like to construct a single family home.
Inasmuch as the current well does not meet the Board of Health Regulations, the existing well would need
to be moved or a variance granted for its present location.
After discussion, and on Motion by Jewell and Second by Passios, a variance was granted allowing the
well to be forty-three (43) feet from the property line with the following conditions:
A well completion report be submitted to the Board of Health
The well must provide adequate water for the house and must have a water quality test completed.
All in favor.
10 TILTON AVENUE
Chris MacKenzie met with the board of behalf of the owner. A Title 5 was attempted on this property and
the site conditions would have caused a failed Title 5. The owner opted to proceed with replacement.
The home has public water. The plumbing coming out of the house is low and in an effort to keep a
gravity system, a groundwater offset from five feet to four feet is requested. The placement of the system
100 feet for wetlands can't be met, therefore an offset to wetlands from is also request.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the variances were granted. All in favor.
===PAGE 2===
260 LANCASTER AVENUE
Chris MacKenzie met with the board of behalf of the owner. This system is in failure and is a cesspool in
the water table. A reduction in groundwater offset from four feet to three feet is requested.
After discussion and on motion by. Jewell and second by 'Shea the variance was granted. All in favor.
Meeting adjourned 7:45 pm
::!.
...
..i. .....
