===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
April 30, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell, Dav e Passios, Paul Fortin 
  
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
April 6, 2015  Jewell/Shea 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
None 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
None 
 
2015 TOWN MEETING WARRANT ARTICLES  
 
Article 22: 
 
“To see if the town will vote to establish a revolv ing loan program under the jurisdiction of the Boar d of 
Selectman for the purposes in assisting income qual ified town resident to replace or upgrade septic 
systems or connect to town’s sewer system; and to a uthorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into an 
agreement with the Montachusett Regional Planning C ommission to administer said fund; and to provide 
funds for such purpose to transfer the funds record ed in Account 2575 of the Town Account’s books, 
which funds represent the repaid monies from a gran t program provided by the former Massachusetts 
Executive Office of Communities and Development (EO CD) for a revolving fund for septic systems 
upgrades, or to take any other action thereto” 
 
Chairman George Emond stated that this Article was placed on the Warrant without any notification or 
consultation with the Board of Health.  Chairman Em ond read correspondence sent to Town Manager 
Kerry Speidel asking for an opinion from Town Couns el as to whether or not the Select Board could take  
control of the monies currently being held by the B oard of Health.  Chairman Emond read the response 
which was given orally to Ms. Speidel which did not answer the question posed. . 
 
 
The Chairman gave a brief history of the grant for members who were not on the Board at the time. He 
also noted that several years ago he had discussion s with the EOC several years ago on the possibility  of 
using the repaid portion of the Grant to maintain t he Sewer System since there had been few inquiries 
over the years. Those who did inquire were directed  to several other agencies where outright grants 
without repayment might be available. Mr. John Perk o, who had worked on the program during its 
inception, responded that it would be an appropriat e use since it would address sanitary waste issues,  but 
could be only used for maintenance or repair of exi sting sewer. Expansion of the system would not be 
appropriate.  The plan was not followed up because of objections of one of the Board members. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Perry Jewell stated that he feels that the Warrant Article makes is appear as if this is a new program .  Mr. 
Jewell does not believe that the response reviewed from Ms. Speidel addresses the original question of  
whether or not the Select Board can take control of  money already under the control of the Board of 
Health. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that he made an inquiry on Tu esday May 24 
th  asking Ms. Speidel if Counsel had 
responded to the legality of Article 22.  No respon se had been received at that time. Later that week,  Ms. 
Speidel responded that Counsel had responded that t he BOS could establish such a revolving fund, with 
the caveat that it would be unusual to do so. The r esponse did not address the core issue of whether t he 
BOS could capture the funds from the BOH. Chairman Emond spoke with Ms. Speidel for clarification, 
which to date has not been received.  
 
Perry Jewell stated that he has four major concerns with Warrant Article 22 as follows: 
 
1.  This matter should have been brought to and discussed with the Board before moving forward. 
2.  What is the driving desire or need to address this issue by warrant article at Annual Town 
Meeting? 
3.  Town Counsel has not answered our original question as to whether the Select Board has the right 
or power to take control of the funds.  They are grant funds given specifically to the Board of 
Health. 
4.  The feeling that the Select Board is getting involved in and taking control of every aspect of town 
government. 
 
The members of the Board are in agreement with these four major concerns. 
 
Chairman Emond also stated that he has seen a recent pattern of the Select Board involving themselves in 
the affairs of other Elected Boards and Committees and is concerned that this interference is possibly 
responsible for the lack of interest of our citizens in volunteering for public service and participation in 
town government.  
 
At the end of the discussion, on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to authorize 
Dave Passios to speak on behalf of the Board of Health at the Annual Town Meeting to be held on 
Saturday, May 2, 2015.  All were in favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned 7:51 pm 
 
   