===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
March 23, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond,  Perry Jewell, Dave Passios 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
January 5, 2015 
March 2, 2015 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
843 Chase Road 
79 Beachview Road 
484 Holman 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
 
1382 MASS AVENUE  
 
Mary Cassidy met with the Board to discuss an open housing complaint.  The original complaint was 
issued On January 16, 2015.  Most of the violations  were corrected.  According to Agent Jim Garreffi, 
some of the violations noted would be more appropri ately corrected in better weather.  There are some 
violations, heating system, weather tight windows a nd doors, and a permanent solution to the water 
supply in the kitchen that should be addressed within the 30 day period. 
 
Ms. Cassidy stated that there is still snow surroun ding the property.  There is rotting siding that ne eds to 
be replaced as well as garage doors that do not sea l appropriately.  These issues contribute to the he ating 
violations and water supply in the kitchen.  The weather tight windows and doors have been addressed. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that he would like a schedule  prepared for the necessary work with a description  
of how the problems are to be resolved.  This sched ule would be discussed with Agent Garreffi and 
completed once the snow has melted and exterior of the house could be repaired. 
 
On motion by Passios and second by Jewell, the boar d voted to require Ms. Cassidy to prepare a schedul e 
of work to be completed, dates for completion and a description of the violations repaired.  All in favor. 
 
828 LANCASTER AVENUE  
 
Agent Jim Garreffi advised that he conducted a hous ing inspection for an apartment at this address.  A n 
order was issued and Agent Garreffi stated that the  owner worked quickly to get most of the violations  
corrected.  Only a few remain and, could already ha ve been corrected.  One required ordering parts.  
Agent Garreffi stated that the landlord has been ve ry cooperative and wants to resolve the issues in a  
timely manner. 
 
===PAGE 2===
On motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the boar d voted to allow additional time to correct any 
outstanding violations.  All in favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm 
 
 
   