===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
March 2, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios, Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
54 Broadmeadow Dr 
74 Townsend Harbor Road 
43 Arbor Street (Fail) 
23 Elmwood Road 
452 Hollis Road 
4 Brookview Terrace 
78 Whiting Street 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
954 Chase Road 
18 White Tail Crossing 
 
954 CHASE ROAD  
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owne r.  This system is in failure.   This lot has high 
ground water and a high perc rate.  A gravity syste m is being proposed for the site.  The location of the 
system is not 100 feet from the suction well line, 93 feet is proposed.  In addition, a variance for o ffset to 
ground water is proposed.  The proposed system is in excess of 100 feet from all surrounding well. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Passios, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
9 FIRE ROAD 15A 
 
Owners Scott Malone and Marcy Foreman met with the Board.  They are without water.  This well has 
already been drilled as an emergency with Chairman Emond’s approval.  The new well is six inches from 
the old one.  The well is more than 100 feet from t he septic, but less than 50 feet from the property line.  
The owners are requesting a variance from 50 feet to 25 feet, distance from property line. 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the request.  All in favor. 
 
190 CHASE ROAD 
 
===PAGE 2===
The owner of the property, John Duggan, met with th e board.  Mr. Duggan would like to finish his 
basement, however, this would exceed the number of rooms allowed under Title 5.  The members of 
board reviewed the proposed floor plan. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second  by Passios they approved the request with a three 
(3) bedroom deed restriction.  All in favor. 
 
FARMERS MARKET 
 
Chairman Emond stated that he had spoken with Town Administrator Kerry Speidel on several occasions 
with regard to the Lunenburg Farmers Market.  Ms. Speidel requested that the Lunenburg Farmers Market 
be turned over to the Agricultural Commission.  Cha irman Emond advised that the Board of Health’s 
involvement was limited to issuing permits and the Board of Health would continue in that capacity. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 7:55 pm 
 
 
   