===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
January 5, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios a nd Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
December 22, 2014 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
4 Brookview Terrace 
1864 Mass Avenue 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
60 South Row Road 
401 Hollis Road 
28 Kimball Street 
 
60 SOUTH ROW ROAD 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board.  The current sy stem is a leach pit in the groundwater and is in 
failure.  This is a very difficult site.  The lot i s small, surrounded by wetlands and has a high wate r table.  
A JET system is being proposed.  There are numerous variances being requested: 
 
Setback from leach field to property line, setback from component (tank) to slab, setback to wetlands,  
offset to ground water (4 feet to 2 feet), sieve an alysis, reduction in the number of deep holes.  The  only 
alternative to the system being proposed would be a tight tank. 
 
Notification to abutters of Title 5 Variance reques t, offset to groundwater four feet to two feet in 
conjunction with a reduction in offset to wetlands, was provided by Mr. MacKenzie. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second  by Fortin, the requested variances including the 
Title 5 variance were approved.  All in favor.  
 
401 HOLLIS ROAD  
 
Chris MacKenzie and Bob Proctor met with the board.   This system is in failure.  The lot is served by 
town water.  The ground was wet on the day of testi ng and a perc test could not be done.  A soil sampl e 
was submitted for testing and a sieve analysis is b eing requested in lieu of a perc test.  In addition , 
variances reducing the offset on inlet and outlet t ees to less than 12 inches and offset to groundwate r are 
requested.  A new tank is required. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the requests were approved based on th e 
plan as proposed.  All in Favor. 
 
28 KIMBALL STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This lot is very small 
with high ground water and the existing structure takes up a good portion of the lot.  The lot slopes to the 
back of the house. 
 
The designer has proposed the use of a Presby leaching area which allows, by its DEP approval, up to a 2’ 
reduction in the groundwater offset.  The designer is looking for that approval as well as offset reductions 
for the leaching area from the property line (7’ instead of 10), septic tank from the property line (5’ 
instead of 10’) and the septic tank from the cellar wall (5’ instead of 10’). 
 
The reductions allow a system to be sited on this lot while minimizing surface run off onto the abutters.  
Since the area is served by Town water and the affected abutter is on the uphill side of the grading (should 
not affect the abutter) I don’t have a problem with the request.  
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Passios, the variances were approved.  All in favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:10 pm 
 .   
 
   