===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
May 4, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell, Dav e Passios, Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
15 John Street 
45 Otis Street 
5 Upland 
73 Horizon Island Road 
173 Hollis Road 
42 Beal Street 
15 Fitchview 
163 Sunny Hill Road 
300 Cross Road  
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
1455 Mass Avenue 
 
1259 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE  
 
Jonathan Markey as well as Josh Brianas met with th e Board.  Mr. Markey is requesting a well variance 
as follows:  Setback from a property line, 50 feet required, 25 feet proposed.  
 
Currently, there is a commercial structure that is served by public water.  Mr. Brianas is proposing t o 
construct a new building, which will include a rest room.  The cost of running public water to the new 
building is prohibitive.  He is proposing to drill a well which will only serve the new building, keeping the 
existing building on public water. 
 
Chairman Emond read Agent Garreffi comments which s tate that he is not in favor of approving this 
variance.  Mr. Garreffi has concerns with cross con tamination between the well and public water as wel l 
as contamination from chemicals stored in the new building. 
 
Mr. Brianas was asked what the possibility of conne cting both buildings to the well would be.  This 
would eliminate the concern of cross contamination.  He stated that in the future it could be a possibility. 
 
Chairman Emond asked for a motion on the requested variance as submitted. Motion made by Mr. 
Passios, seconded by Mr. Fortin.  Members voted as follows: 
 
 
Emond – No 
===PAGE 2===
Passios – No 
Shea – Yes 
Fortin – Yes 
Jewell – Abstain 
 
The vote did not carry. 
 
Mr. Markey asked to if he could submit another proposal at a later date.  The Board agreed. 
 
1455 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE  
 
Dan Proctor met with the Board of behalf of the own er.  This system is in failure.  This lot is connec ted to 
public water.  The lot is very wet and at the time of testing a perc test could not be completed.  A s ieve 
analysis was conducted to determine the perc rate.  All of the requested variances, offset to ground w ater, 
sieve analysis and reduction in inlet and outlet tees are related to the wetness of the site. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Passios, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
32 ARBOR STREET  
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the  owner.  This system is also in failure.  The varia nce 
requested is offset to wetland:  100 feet to 61 fee t.  This system is being located in the best possib le 
location on the site. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Passios, the variance was approved.  All in favor. 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION  
 
Jeff Mendoza and Maureen Dupuis, members of the Agr icultural Commission met with the Board to 
discuss the upcoming Farmers Market.  They question ed the process and permits required for vendors.  
Chairman Emond responded that food service is handl ed through Nashoba Associated Boards of Health.  
The sanitarian at Nashoba that handles food service  is Bridgette Braley and she can issue the permits as 
necessary. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:05 pm 
 
 
SEPTIC SYSTEM GRANT  
 
Chairman Emond discussed the history of this grant.   At this point in time there are two options for t he 
use of this money, either in the repair/ maintenance of a current system or in the re-loaning of the f unds to 
Lunenburg town residents.  In addition, management of the grant can be internal or through an outside 
agency. 
 
Dave Passios discussed the criteria for lending the money to residents, as follows: 
 
1.  Defining a needs area 
2.  Establishing income criteria 
3.  Whether the program would include utilizing the funds for tie into sewer. 
===PAGE 3===
4.  Loan would be repaid on conveyance. 
5.  There must a Title 5 Inspection completed showing a  failed system and certified by the Board of 
Health. 
6.  If sewer connection where included in the loan program, betterment fees could not be included. 
 
After discussion, Chairman Emond appointed Dave Pas sios to do further investigation and report back to  
the board at their next scheduled meeting on June 1, 2015. 
 
Meeting adjourned 7:45 pm 
 
   