===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
February 1, 2016
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios, Paul Fortin and Jim Auge
MINUTES APPROVED:
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
76 Eastern Avenue
802 New West Townsend Road
101 Stonefence Road
233 West Townsend Road
45 Cove Road
84 Houghtons Mill Road
1868 Mass Avenue
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
60 South Row Road
401 Hollis Road
28 Kimball Street
664 Northfield Road
Steve Marsden met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. The lot was too wet
to perc so a sieve analysis was performed. Due to the high groundwater an offset to groundwater is being
requested from four feet to three feet. With this approval, there will be no need for a pump and can be
served by gravity.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the requested variance was approved.
All in favor.
18 CRESCENT ROAD
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure, the leaching area is in
the groundwater. The property is connected to public water. A variance in offset to groundwater is being
requested from five foot to four feet. This will allow the site to be graded to minimize the surface runoff
to the house.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Auge, the request was All in Favor.
===PAGE 2===
225 ELMWOOD ROAD
At the January 4, 2016 meeting of the Board of Health, the board ordered that the two wells on the
property be destroyed and the property be connected to public water as a condition of the septic approval.
The Owners of the property are requesting that the wells be allowed to continue to be used as irrigation
well. They have been disconnected from the residence.
On motion by Auge and second by Passios, the request was approved. All in favor.
97 ROLLING ACRES ROAD
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. Because of the
property being so wet, a sieve analysis was conducted to determine the perc rate. Both the seasonal
groundwater and perc rate are high.
Mr. MacKenzie is requesting a reduction in offset to groundwater from four feet to three feet.
On motion by Jewell and second by Auge, the variances were approved. All in favor.
1596 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. Due to the topography
of the site, a groundwater offset from five feet to four feet is being requested.
On motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variance was approved. All in favor.
1134 NORTHFIELD ROAD
Tanner Cole met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. This site has high
groundwater, an onsite well and ledge which makes it a difficult site. In addition, the system, as designed,
requires a vote at Town Meeting for an easement.
After discussion and on Motion by Auge and second by Passios, the variance was approved with the
condition that there be an Article at Town Meeting allowing the easement for this property.
1396 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
Jack Maloney and Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. The
property was too wet to perc so a sieve analysis was completed. Both the seasonal ground water and perc
rate are high. This house is on a slab and serviced by public water. A groundwater offset from five feet
to four feet is being requested and well as a reduction in the inlet and outlet tee distance.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Auge, the variances were approved. All in
favor.
SEPTIC SYSTEM LOAN PROGRAM
The Board further discussed the Septic System Loan Program and made final changes to the Application
Documents.
===PAGE 3===
Carl Luck asked that there be language to include the possibility of the funds being used to connect to
Municipal Sewer should there be a failed septic system. After discussion, the Board agreed to add the
language to the application forms to clearly state that funds from this loan program could be used to
connect to public sewer for a failed septic system. However, loan funds cannot be used to pay betterment
fees.
After discussion the Board approved the following:
Applications Due:
Decisions:
March 1, 2016
April 1, 2016
STORMWATER TASK FORCE
Member Jim Auge has been appointed to the Stormwater Task Force, representing the Board of Health.
Mr. Auge has reported that the group has met. Mr. Auge advised that, at this point, there is nothing that
he believes comes under the jurisdiction of the Board of Health. In addition, he stated that the Town is
waiting for receipt of a written record of what will be required by the Town. He will keep the Board
advised.
Meeting adjourned at 9:50 pm
•
