===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
September 19, 2016
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios and Paul Fortin
MINUTES APPROVED:
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
493 Mass Avenue
145 Woodland Drive - Fail
60 Robbs Hill Road
52 Cliffview Terrace
490 Lancaster Avenue
841 Northfield Road
... 1399 Lancaster Avenue
535 Northfield Road
116 Lancaster Avenue
181 Peninsula Drive
108 Whiting Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
516 NW Townsend Road, Lot 1
508 NW Townsend Road, Lot 2
272 West Townsend Road
545 Mass Avenue 16
436 Mass Avenue
36 Elm Street
164 ROLLING ACRES
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. The existing system would be a failure due to the
high ground water. This is a small lot with mature trees. The replacement system was designed in an
effort to keep the system fill contained on the lot and minimize the loss of the trees. The house is served
by public water.
A variance for offset to groundwater from four (4) feet to three (3) feet as well as inlet and outlet tees. A
poly barrier has been included in the proposed plan.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variances were approved. All in
favor.
70 OAKRIDGE ROAD
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. The owner is knocking down the old house
on this lot and replacing it with a new house with the same number of bedrooms and will be deed
restricted to two bedrooms. In the process, a new well and septic system are required. This lot is small
===PAGE 2===
with Lake Shirley on one side and wetlands on the other. A well variance, offset to property line of less
than 50 feet is being requested
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passios the variances were approved on the
condition that the existing well is destroyed. All in favor.
47 RAMGREN ROAD
John and Carol Boiven, owners of the property, met with the board. This system is in groundwater and in
failure. The property is served by town water. In order to keep the fill contained on the lot, the design
submitted includes a reduction in groundwater offset from four (4) feet to two (2) feet. A Presby system
is proposed
After discussion an on motion by Passios and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.
112 ROLLING ACRES ROAD
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system would be a failure due to the high
ground water. This property is served by public water. This lot is small and has high ground water.
Because of this the plan submitted includes a groundwater offset from four (4) feet to three (3) feet as
well as a variance for less than 12 inches for inlet and outlet tees. The septic tank is to have cast-in place
rubber boots to prevent water seepage.
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Jewell, the variances were approved. All in
favor.
126 YOUNGS ROAD
Chris Ryan met with the board. This system is in failure due to high ground water. This lot is small, has
a high water table and a high perc rate. The proposed replacement system includes a variance for the use
of a sieve analysis. In addition, the proposed system requires offset to wells as follows:
100 feet to 53 feet on site well.
100 feet to 69 feet - abutter's well
The alternative to the proposed system is a tight tank.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin the variances were approved with the
condition that wells within 100 feet be tested. All in favor.
28 WOODLAND DRIVE
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This matter was before the board on August 15,
2016 wherein a groundwater offset variance was approved. During the installation of the replacement
system, the building sewer was found to be lower than on the design plan. Because of the high season
water table and lower building sewer elevation, the tank outlets don't have the required offset to the water
table. Mr. Proctor is asking to allow the tanks for remain as installed with a variance to inlet and outlet
tees of less than 12 inches. The tanks have cast-in rubber boots and have been hydraulically cemented to
prevent infiltration of groundwater.
===PAGE 3===
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the request was granted. All in favor.
46 PAGE HILL ROAD
Debra Alario, owner of the property, met with the board. This system is in failure due to high ground
water. In order to keep the fill on contained on the lot, the applicant is requesting a groundwater offset
reduction from four (4) feet to three (3) feet. This lot is served by town water.
After discussion and on motion my Jewell and second by Passios, the variance was approved. All in
favor.
1455 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
Mrs. Ruth Hamilton, as well as her sons Jason Hamilton and Joshua Hamilton were present at the
leeting. A betterment Agreement was executed in the amount of $14,000 as part of the Lunenbur
eptic System Repair Program. This Agreement will be recorded at the Worcester North Registry o
Deed. A check in the amount of $14,000 will be issued to Dan Proctor as payment for the installment of
this system. A Certificate of Compliance has been issued on this property.
Meeting adjourned at 9:45 pm.
