===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
January 4, 2016 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios a nd Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
60 South Row Road 
401 Hollis Road 
28 Kimball Street 
 
LOT C CHASE ROAD 
 
Neil Gorman met with the board on behalf of the own er.  This is one of three lots that have been divid ed 
from 811 Chase Road, the existing house and two new  lots.  The engineer has designed fully compliant 
septic systems for the new lots and a reserve has been designed for the existing house. 
 
A well variance is being requested from fifty (50) feet to forty (40) feet.  The reduction in offset f rom the 
property line does not affect the adjourning lots. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second  by Passios, the requested variance was approved.  
All in favor.  
 
225 ELMWOOD ROAD  
 
Cory Dowd met with the board.  Mr. Dowd is requesti ng a reduction in groundwater offset from four feet  
to three feet.  Currently, there are two wells on t he site.  It is their intention to destroy these we lls and 
connect to public water. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Fortin, the request was approved with the 
condition that the 2 existing wells be destroyed an d the property be connected to public water.  All i n 
Favor. 
 
28 KIMBALL STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This lot is very small 
with high ground water and the existing structure takes up a good portion of the lot.  The lot slopes to the 
back of the house. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The designer has proposed the use of a Presby leaching area which allows, by its DEP approval, up to a 2’ 
reduction in the groundwater offset.  The designer is looking for that approval as well as offset reductions 
for the leaching area from the property line (7’ instead of 10), septic tank from the property line (5’ 
instead of 10’) and the septic tank from the cellar wall (5’ instead of 10’). 
 
The reductions allow a system to be sited on this lot while minimizing surface run off onto the abutters.  
Since the area is served by Town water and the affected abutter is on the uphill side of the grading (should 
not affect the abutter) I don’t have a problem with the request.  
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Passios, the variances were approved.  All in favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:10 pm 
 .   
 
   