===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios and Paul Fortin
MINUTES APPROVED:
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
211 South Row Road
391 Page Street
455 Hollis Road
33 Pratt Street
RECEIVED & FILED
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
15 West Acres
140 Peninsula
48 Oak Ridge
AR 2 3 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFPICE
894 Northfield
55 Spring Street
2 New West Townsend Road
4 New West Townsend Road
15 WEST ACRES
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. Because of high ground water this
syren is considorod a failure. This lot is small and sloping and the seasonal high ground water
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the requested variance was
approved. All in favor.
126 YOUNGS ROAD
===PAGE 2===
35 PINE ACRES
The house on this lot burned down. The applicant is re-building the house and replacing the
septic system at the same time. This lot is small and has wetlands along one side making it
difficult to fully comply with Local wetlands offset regulations (100 foot offset). The plan, as
designed, complies with Title 5 regulations but not Lunenburg Board of Health Regulations.
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Passios, the variances were approved.
All in favor.
140 PENINSULA ROAD
The location of the current septic system for this site is unknown but given the location of the
lake and water table it is mostly likely in the water table and considered a failure. The site has
good soils but the lake on two sides plus the elevated water table makes the placement of tanks
with the correct elevations difficult. A variance for inlet and out let tees as well as distance to
wetland of less than 100 feet is being request.
On motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the variances were approved. All in favor.
48 OAK RIDGE
894 NORTHFIELD ROAD
672 NORTHFIELD ROAD
22 BOUCHER ROAD
The Board heard from the applicant that he would like to use the existing perc tests on the site
for the design of a sewage disposal system. Our Agent recommended conducting new perc tests
(old testing was done in 1980) because he felt the existing percs were not representative of the
most restrictive soil layer in the area of the leaching area. Other concerns of the Board are that
the permit, drafted in 1980, may not have been issued and that the previous test was not
===PAGE 3===
lieu of on-site testing in this particular instance in what the Agent feels is the more restrictive
layer and submit it for a sieve analysis with the following conditions: soil sample will be
witnessed by the Agent, the leaching area will be designed on the existing perc tests or the results
of the sieve analysis; whichever is greater.
Meeting adjourned at 8:10 pm
