===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios, Paul Fortin and Warren Mayhew
MINUTES APPROVED:
RECEIVED & FILED
October 16, 2017
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
467 Mass Avenue
APR 2 3 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
TC PASSIOS SCHOOL CAFATERIA
Member Dave Passios wanted to discuss the direction and the use that cafeteria at the TC Passios
School would be taking. There are various proposals that are being put forth.
Chairman George Emond advised that he had spoken with agent Jim Garreffi and that Garreffi
has spoken with Town Administrator Heather Lemieux. Bridgette Braley would be inspecting
the kitchen to determine whether or not it could be licensed as a commercial kitchen.
There are various possible ways that the TC Passios Kitchen space could be managed. Currently
there are two, possibly three individuals interested in utilizing a commercial kitchen in the
school. They have toured the facility with Town Administrator Heather Lemieux. Ms. Lemieux
advised Passios that she would not entertain further proposals as she feels she already has a
verbal commitment.
Board discussion centered around management of the kitchen as to food service licenses and
inspections. Agent Garreffi and Nashoba Food Service would work with whatever entity was
established to manage the kitchen.
Passios advised that Heather Bowen has been included in the kitchen discussion at the request of
the Agricultural Commission. Passios further advised that the Agricultural Commission is
looking at the School as a possible site for the Lunenburg Community Farmers Market.
Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf will keep the board apprised of the status of this
matter.
===PAGE 2===
on the website. Open meeting law states that a website can be used as a posting place for
minutes. It is unclear, at the time of the meeting, whether posting minutes on the Town of
Lunenburg Website is required.
Chairman Emond stated that there are procedures in place for obtaining information through a.
records search. A records search allows for accurate information to be provided. This procedure
trols the information and in this Case Minutes.
Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf will contact the Town Clerk to clarify this issue and
report back to the board.
OPIOID FORUM
David Passios, Perry Jewell and Paul Fortin attending the Opioid Forum on behalf of the Board
of Health.
Meeting Adjourned.
