===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
17 RUTH STREET
Joel and Marilyn Swenson, owners of the property, met with the Board. A building permit had been
completed and submitted to the Board through Agent Jim Garreffi. Due to the Lunenburg Board of
Health Regulations definition of a room as well as bedrooms, Agent Garreffi was unwilling to sign the
permit with the proposal being first approved by the Board. Mr. & Mrs. Swenson explained their
proposed addition to include two large rooms and a loft but does not include additional bedrooms. The
current septic permit is a 2/3 bedroom and the board deemed it a 3 bedroom.
After discussion, an on motion by Jewell and second by Passios the board voted to sign the Building
Permit in accordance with the plans submitted.
UNIFER EVENT DISCUSSION
Member of the Unifer Team (Jason and Eva) met with the Board. Also present was Heather Bowen in
support of the event. The group is planning an event to be held at 300 Holman Street, the old Lane Estate.
As part of the multi day event, they are proposing overnight camping, music, and food vendors.
In order to hold the event, permitting would be required by the Board. Food vendors, gray water,
drinking water and camping all require permits or approval through Nashoba. They are requesting that
some of the regulations be relaxed in order for the event to move forward.
The Unifer team is specifically asking that camping be permitted on the grounds. Sean Patrick's will be
catering the event, eliminating the need for food service permits. A source of Potable water has been
found. Three washing stations will be provided, a gray water system will be place as well as porta pottys.
Chairman George Emond and Agent Jim Garreffi have been in contact with the Unifer team. Chairman
Emond advised that, it is his opinion, the Unifer team has satisfactory alternatives in place to issue
permits.
After a lengthy discussion and on Motion by Passios and second by Fortin, the necessary permits were
signed by the Board
Next Meeting: July 17, 2007
RECEIVED & FILED
Meeting adjourned
APR 2 3 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
