===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MINUTES APPROVED:
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
537 Howard Street
7 Clifton Road
104 Island Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
498 Howard Street
64 ARBOR STREET
Matthew Woodward, property owner, met with the board with regard to the inconsistencies between
Title 5 Reports and Board of Health records.
The property was purchased in 2007. A title V inspection was not performed at that time since the
owner proposed a voluntary upgraded system be installed. The site was evaluated and a compliant
septic system design plan was prepared. The engineer for the plan determined that the depth to ground
water at the site was 24 inches, Although the system design was approved by the Board and an
installation permit was issued. The system was never installed.
Mr. Woodward was required to have a Title 5 completed on the property. The first Title 5 was
completed in October of 2013 passing the system. When the information from testing completed in
2007 for the newly designed system was compared to the October 2013 Title 5 report, the information
did not match.
Mr. Woodward came before the board again and was told again that he was required to install the new
system or in the alternative prove that his system was not in groundwater.
Another Title 5 report was done in October of 2017. This was a conditional pass requiring a new
septic tank stating the tank was over 20 years old, metal and not sound. Mr. Woodward stated that he
was present during the October 2017 Title 5 Inspection. This Title 5 Inspection also notes that the D-
Box is not original to the system.
Mr. Woodward stated that it is his understanding that if an existing system is not in groundwater, it is a
passing system. This most recent report states that the current system is not in groundwater and with
the exception of the septic tank needing replacement, the report is a passing report.
===PAGE 2===
Ed Perry, owner, met with the board. Mr. Perry advised that he had ordered three windows to be
installed in the property and would be ordering 3 more to be installed by a licensed contractor. He
further advised that they were custom made and had to accomplish the installation in the manner due to
the cost.
George Emond stated that he had spoken with Agent Jim Garreffi and he would not object to an
extension until the end of July for the work to be fully completed with all violations repairs and all
required windows installed..
After much discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew that Mr. Perry had until July
to have all new windows installed and further that Mr. Perry would be at the first meeting in
August showing that the work had been completed. All in favor.
27 FIRE ROAD 15A
The septic system on this property was replaced in 2005 but the as-built plans were never submitted so
a Certificate of Compliance was never issued. The new owner, Mr. Bean, contacted Nashoba to find
out why it was never issued and what would be needed to complete the 2005 installation. Mr. Bean
contacted the engineer who designed the system and an as-built was completed. It was noted that the
system was installed 2 feet lower than designed. This would require an "after the fact" variance for
offset to groundwater. The system as designed and installed is for four bedroom although the property
was permitted for three bedrooms.
In addition, there are 3 cottages on this property. The bedrooms in each are listed differently on
different plans. The final approval for the system was for three bedrooms. The total number of
bedrooms between the 3 cottages is actually four bedrooms. Currently, all three cottages are connected
to the septic system with one of the unit having two bedrooms and each of the remaining two units
having one bedroom each. Mr. Bean would like to explore his options with regard to bringing this
system into compliance.
After much discussion, the matter was continued to June 18, 2018 at 7:30 pm.
RE-ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD
The Board of Health voted unanimously to appoint George Emond as Chairman, Perry Jewell as Vice-
Chairman and Paul Fortin as Secretary.
Meeting adjourned
