===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
September 17, 2018 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, David Passios and Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
August 20, 2018 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
943 Reservoir Road 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
  
29 Otis Street – Fail 
60 Beal Street 
2 Smith Drive 
12 Island Road 
19 Rangely Road 
4 Sunset Lane 
290 Northfield Road 
98 Horizon Island 
612 Townsend Harbor Road 
47 Esterbrook Road 
72 Youngs  Road 
 
217 RESERVOIR ROAD 
 
Neil Gorman of Ross Associates met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This is a voluntary 
upgrade.  Based on the high groundwater level this system would be in failure.  This property is 
connected to town water. 
 
Variances being requested are groundwater offset from 5 feet to 4 feet and the system less than 100 
feet from a wetland, proposed 57 feet.  This system is not in the River Front Zone.  Plumbing is on the 
side of the house where the new system is being proposed. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
64 ARBOR STREET 
 
Matthew Woodward, owner, met with the Board.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Chairman George Emond stated that this matter was placed on the agenda beca use at their meeting on 
June 4, 2018, the board did error in stating that an existing system has to be four feet above the water 
table. Mr. Woodward was correct in that an existing system just need s to be above the high 
groundwater level and not 4 feet above groundwater. 
 
Mr. Woodward stated that he did not feel that the previous minutes as approved and posted reflected 
what transpired at the meeting. 
 
Mr. Emond further stated that the error made does not change the outcome with regard to this property.  
Member Perry Jewell also stated that this error did not change the situation with this property.  There is 
an old 500 gallon septic tank and a newer d -box as well as a d iscrepancy in the configuration of the 
leach field. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that previousl y, the board gave Mr. Woodward the option of having a 
witnessed Title 5 as an alternative to replacing the system.  Mr. Woodward has not availed himself of 
that option. 
 
145 WOODLAND 
 
Bob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is i n failure.  The property is 
served by public water.  This lot is small and has high ground water.   
 
Variances being requested are a reduction in groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet as well as less than 12 
inch separation between the inlet and outlet tees.  The proposed system is designed for two (2) 
bedrooms. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Mayhew, the variances were approved with 
the condition that a two (2) bedroom deed restriction be placed on the property.  All in favor. 
 
169 PENNINSULA DRIVE 
 
Bob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system on this site is in failure.  This lot 
is small, has a significant amount of wetlands and two buildings that take up a large portion of the site.   
 
Variances being requested are offset to groundwater from five feet to four feet , less than 12 inch 
separation between inlet and outlet tees, offset to garage slab from 10 feet to 8 feet and offset to house 
slab from 10 feet to 5.3 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Mayhew and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
950 CHASE ROAD 
 
The property located above is without water.  The owner has made arrangement to have a new well 
drilled.  The exact location from the property line is unknown although it is m ore than 15 feet but less 
than 30 feet. 
 
===PAGE 3===
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Fortin, the board voted to allow the 
installation of the well to go forward.  A variance for the exact placement will be grated once the 
distance is known.  All in favor. 
 
SEPTIC LOAN PROGRAM 
 
Members of the board would like to consider using the money currently in the Septic Loan Program 
for other than the repair of private, low income, residential dwellings.  The board would only consider 
expanding the use of this money if they retain control over the funds. 
 
Both Chairman George Emond and member Dave Passios have met with Town Counsel to discuss this. 
 
After discussion, the board would like to move forward with discussing the possibility of using these 
funds in an expanded way and will be speaking with Town Counsel to ascertain how that might be 
accomplished. 
 
Meeting adjourned 