===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MINUTES APPROVED:
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
943 Reservoir Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
498 Howard Street
2030 Mass Avenue
331 Burrage Street
TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Ken Farbstein, of the Niat Foundation, met with the board to discuss Tobacco Regulations. Also
present Loxi Calmes, School Superintendent. Currently, the board does not have additional regulations
beyond those of the Commonwealth of Mass.
Mr. Farbstein provided information to the board on the ramifications of underage smoke. This
includes both regular cigarettes and vapor cigarettes. Stated that addiction starts at a young age, is
very difficult to overcome and lasts a life time. Also stated that Police Chief Marino would be willing
to enforce any regulations that the Board might institute with regard to tobacco.
Mr. Farbstein provided letters from Fitchburg and Leominster Board of Health in support of enacting
regulations controlling the sale and pricing of flavored cigars and e-cigarettes. Both Fitchburg and
Leominster have instituted a "flavor ban" on tobacco products for 18-21 year olds and set a minimum
price on flavored tobacco products.
Chairman George Emond advised that the Lunenburg Board of Health has historically not enacted
regulations beyond State Regulations.
Lexi Calmes stated that all electronic cigarettes are prohibited in the school system and they are having
a particular problem with the product called JUUL. This is a product that she feels in directed and
marketed to young people.
Member Perry Jewell stated that currently, there is a bill to change the smoking age to 21 statewide.
The Massachusetts House overwhelmingly approved raising the minimum age for purchasing
cigarettes and other tobacco or vaping products from 18 to 21, a move that would bring the entire state
===PAGE 2===
discussed tonight.
64 ARBOR STREET
The Order was sent to the owner with regard to the replacement of the septic system. No one was
present to offer additional information. The matter was not continued.
27 FIRE ROAD 15A
Mr. Bean met with the board to further discuss the septic system currently on this property. Mr. Board
would like additional time to explore all the options in resolving the issues with this system.
After much discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew Mr. Bean was granted the
additional time and will meet with the board again on September 17, 2018 at 7:00 pm.
498 HOWARD STREET
Neil Gorman met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is currently in failure due to the
high ground water.
In addition to high ground water this site has a steep slope. The plan proposes a Presby system. DEP
allows a groundwater reduction of up to 2 feet for replacement system. Mr. Gorman is requesting the
use of the Presby system to include the 2 foot reduction in order to keep the required grading.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew the variance was granted. All in
favor.
THE LUNCH BOX
Jay Johnson and Chang, owner of the property met with the board. Ms. Chang would like to sell the
business and retire. Ms. Chang stated that she was advised that she would have to have a bathroom
installed in the trailer as well as other upgrades prior to selling.
Ms. Chang has had a food service permit at this location for an excess of 19 years with a brief period
of not being open due to illness.
Chairman George Emond stated that through the course of the past 19 years the regulations have
changed and become more stringent. Of the greatest concern to the board in the change in the food
being prepared within the trailer.
===PAGE 3===

