===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MINUTES APPROVED:
SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
21 Townsend Harbor Road
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
210 S. ROW ROAD
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure but is served by
public water. This lot is small, has a sloping topography and the placement of the house on the lot
made designing a new system more difficult.
Variances being requested are offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet and offset to foundation from
10 feet to 4 feet. In addition, the owner would like to keep the existing well for agricultural purposes.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variances were approved and
should the owner wish to keep the existing well as an agricultural well, a deed notion is required.
• All
in favor.
89 WEST STREET
Chris Comeau and Julie Webber met with the board. There have been complaints from the abutting
property owner at 829 West Street regarding a discharge of what appears to be sewage into their yard.
The complaints are primarily in the spring and summer. Testing of the ponding water showed it to be
contaminated with fecal matter.
Mr. Comeau stated that the area under discussion is more than 75 feet away from where his system is
located. He further stated that he is having his system tested.
Chairman George Emond stated that he would be willing to have a system inspection completed to
determine what is happening with the ponding. He further stated that in the past, if a system was found
to be in breakout, a pumping regimen could be established for a period of time to allow time for for
preparations for a repair of the system to be done.
===PAGE 2===
wait.
CLUN
permit and obtain and certificate of compliance for his system. Here are 3 structures on the site. The
leach field, as installed, is 2 feet lower that was in the design plan. After testing, it was determined that
the system is five feet above the groundwater and a reserve area is noted.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passions, the board voted that the installed s
system is for 4 bedroom and a total of nine rooms to be divided over the 3 existing structures. All in
389 HIGHLAND STREET
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. Soil testing showed
less than four feet of pervious soil, only 24 - 31 inches of soil was found. This is very common on
Highland Street. Title 5 allows the Board to grant a variance from four feet to two feet.
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Jewell, the variances were approved on the
condition that this property be deed restricted. All in favor.
169 PENINSULA DRIVE
Bob Proctor met with the board. This matter was before the board previously. It was determined that
the water line is too close to the tank and an additional variance is required. After discussion and on
motion by Fortin and second by Jewell that the variance be approved. All in favor.
950 CHASE ROAD
The well at the above property has been drilled. The variance requested is 15 +/- feet from the
property line and 5 +/1 feet from the common drive.
On motion by Fortin and second by Passions, the variance was approved. All in favor.
Meeting adjourned
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 2 6 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
