===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
335 Highland Street
241 Arbor Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
54 Maple Parkway with conditions
932 Lancaster Avenue
54 MAPLE PARKWAY
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner. Due to the high seasonal groundwater on the
site the current septic system would be a failure. The owner is proposing replacing a mobile home
currently on the site with a two bedroom home. This site is served by public water. The lot is small,
has high groundwater and wetlands. No increase in design flow is being proposed. Variances
requested are as follows: Offset to groundwater four feet to three feet, offset to wetlands 100 feet to
41.4 feet, and depth of pump chamber. A large retaining wall is being proposed.
After discussion and on Motion by Passios and second by Jewell, the variances were approved with the
requirement that the board receives a plan from a professional engineer for the construction of the
retaining wall that complies with Title 5. All in favor.
932 LANCASTER AVENUE
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner. This is a voluntary upgrade, although based
on the high groundwater, the current system would be considered a failure. This is one house on a
very large lot but due to the high groundwater an offset to groundwater from four feet to three feet is
being requested. In addition, a reduction in inlet and outlet tee offsets are also being requested in
order that the proper grade be maintained due to the elevation of the sewer line in the house.
Monolithic tanks and rubber boots are included in the proposed plan and are required by the board.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Pa the budget was approved. All in favor.
143 ROLLING ACRES
Jason Spinosa, the owner of the property as well as Jim Lavasseur, builder, were present at the
meeting. This property currently has a four bedroom septic system that complies with 310CMR 15
for the four bedroom home. Mr.Spinosa wishes to create an additional 3 rooms in an unfinished open
===PAGE 2===
The owner of this home would like to add three rooms to the basement. The current house has a
sewage disposal system designed for four bedrooms; currently the house has 8 rooms and four
bedrooms.
In a single family dwelling the size of a sewage disposal system is based on the number of bedrooms
and the definition in Title 5 (provided below) describes how to determine the number of bedrooms in a
single family dwelling. Based on this definition the proposed construction would require a septic
system designed to handle 5 bedrooms.
Bedroom - A room providing privacy, intended primarily for sleeping and consisting of all of the
following: (a) floor space of no less than 70 square feet; (b) for new construction, a ceiling height of
no less than seven feet three inches;
(c) for existing houses and for mobile homes, a ceiling height of no less than seven feet zero inches;
(d) an electrical service and ventilation; and (e) at least one window. Living rooms, dining rooms,
kitchens, halls, bathrooms, unfinished cellars and unheated storage areas over garages are not
considered bedrooms. Single family dwellings shall be presumed to have at least three bedrooms.
Where the total mumber of rooms for single family dwellings exceeds eight. not including hathrooms.
hallways, unfinished cellars and unheated storage areas, the number of bedrooms presumed shall be
calculated by dividing the total number of rooms by two then rounding down to the next lowest whole
number. The applicant may design a system using design flows for a smaller number of bedrooms than
are presumed in this definition by granting to the Approving Authority a deed restriction limiting the
number of bedrooms to the smaller mumber.
There are a number of options for this site:
1.) Reduce the number of rooms to be added to the house; a house with 9 rooms and 4 bedrooms
would still comply with the size of the existing sewage disposal system.
2.) The applicant could consider the installation of a sewage disposal system to handle 5
bedrooms.
Chairman Emond explained how we determine a bedroom by local definition as well as the fact that
with a 4 bedroom septic permit the dwelling would be limited to a total of 9 rooms. Inasmuch as the
home currently has four bedrooms the addition of three more rooms would not be possible unless the
septic system was expanded to accommodate the additional room.
Mr. Spinosa stated that he had read Title 5 Regulations and it was his opinion as well as his attorney's
opinion that if Mr. Spinosa executed and recorded a deed restriction on the property limiting the home
to four bedrooms that is would be able to add the three additional rooms.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Spinosa indicated that he did not believe that he would be able to reconfigure the existing rooms to
reduce them to a level to allow the addition of three rooms in the basement and that he could be
contacting his attorney.
Mr. Spinosa was advised that if he wanted to speak with agent Jim Garreffi or meet back with the
board should there be a change in circumstance he was welcome to do.
After further discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passions the request to further develop
this property with additional rooms was denied even if a bedroom deed restriction was in place. All in
favor.
SEPTIC LOAN PROGRAM
Member Dave Passios stated that he would like the board to be able to do something with the funds in
the septic loan program fund. Chairman Emond stated that here are very clear guideline of the funds
can be used for.
Dave Passios stated that he would like to look into whether the funds could be used to provide
restroom facilities at the Town's parks. He asked if he was able to get written permission to alter the
use under which the funds could be used, would that be acceptable to the board.
After discussion, the board agreed that written permission from State Officials would be necessary.
Meeting adjourned at 8:20 pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 16 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
