===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
April 4, 2019 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, David Passios, Paul Fortin, Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
March 18, 2019 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
1570 Mass Avenue 
305 Pleasant Street 
23 Esterbrook Road 
380 NW Townsend 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
 
 
  
210 CHASE ROAD 
 
Summit Engineering met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system has been in failure for a 
considerable amount of time.  This matter came before the previously, with a permit being issued.  The 
system was never installed.  This site has very high ground water, a small loping lot, high perc rate and 
onsite well. 
 
The previously designed system was very expe nsive to install and the applicant has re -designed the 
proposed system.  This newly designed system, a FAST system, includes a treatment septic tank to 
produce a cleaner effluent prior to discharge.  This will also reduce the footprint of the leaching area by 
50%. 
 
Variances being requested are less than 100 feet to a well and the use of a sieve analysis.  After 
discussion, and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to approved the variances 
provided that a service contract for the FAST s ystem is in place prior to the COC being issued.  All in 
favor. 
  
211/219 W. TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
Mark Horrigan met with the board.  Mr. Horrigan owns two unimproved building lots with expired 
septic permits.  There has been no work begun on these lots.  Mr. Hor rigan is asking the board to 
extend these septic permits for an additional. 
 
After discussion, the board advised Mr. Horrigan that an extension is given when work has begun but 
cannot be finished in the required time.  Because work has not begun, extensions would not be given. 
===PAGE 2===
 
113 SANDY COVE ROAD 
 
The owner of the property, Mike Tully, met with the board.  A replacement system was designed for 
this property.  The house is connected to town water.  As part of the new system design, it was 
determined that there was also a well on the property.  The holding tank for the well in the basement of 
the house.  The owner would like to keep the well as an agricultural well. 
 
After discussion, the board advised that the well can remain provided it be disconnected from  the 
residence (proof provided to the board) and a deed restriction notification be placed on the property. 
 
9 WINTER Hill ROAD 
 
The owners of this property would like to finish space in the basement.  The house currently has a total 
of nine rooms (includi ng 4 bedrooms) and the septic system is designed for four bedrooms.  The 
proposed basement work would cause the house to exceed the capacity of the septic system, based on 
the total room count.  The homeowner can increase the size of the septic system, or place a deed 
restriction on the house. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew  the board voted to allow a deed 
restriction of 4 bedrooms and a total of 10 rooms. 
 
NEW EVENTS APPLICATION 
 
The Select Board is in the process of creating  a new permitting process.  The proposed language has 
been provided to the board for comment. 
 
After discussion, the board is requiring that anyone applying for an Event Permit meet all Board of 
Health Regulations as all events are different and provide th eir proposal directly to the Board of 
Health. 
 
DARREN MASSEY EVENT APPLICATOINS 
 
Darren Massey has applied, through the Select Boards office, for permits to hold events at his property 
on Holman Street.  All events held in Town have to meeting Board of Health regulations. 
 
25 PEARL STREET 
 
The system at this property is in failure.  The homeowner has not responded to requests from the 
Board.  This matter will be marked up for hearing in Housing Court. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm 