===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
December 16, 2019 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
November 2019 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
66 Stonefence 
66 Gibson 
127 Highland 
727 West Street 
299 Page Street 
48 Pearl Street 
410 Lancaster 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
 
90 Hemlock 
19 Cove Terrace 
147 Cove Road 
120 Goodrich Street, Lot 5 
Northfield Road, Lot 1 
Youngs Road, Lot 1 
69 Kilburn Street 
134 Youngs Road 
 
69 KILBURN STREET 
 
Dawn Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The lot contains 
significant wetlands, is served by a private well as is the abutter.  Variances requested are offset to  
wetlands and offset to groundwater .  Granting these variances allows the proposed system to be 100 
feet from all wells.  George Emond stated that because the sewer line is 187 feet, he would like to see a 
cleanout added. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by  Emond and second by Mayhew, the variances were approved with 
the addition of a cleanout.  All in favor. 
 
134 YOUNGS ROAD 
 
Dawn Proctor met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The lots in the area 
are small.  Testing was completed and there is no area that would allow a 100 foot offset from the 
===PAGE 2===
existing wells (both abutter and owner).  Variances requested are distance to well, 100 feet to 82 feet 
and distance to slab, 10 feet to 3.8 feet. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Em ond and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
147 COVE ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The site is served by 
Town water.  The lot is small and has high ground water.  Varianc es requested are reduction in 
groundwater from four feet to three feet and distance to cellar wall from 20 feet to 7 feet. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Mayhew and second by Fortin, the variances were approved. 
 
90 HEMLOCK DRIVE 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owners.  This system is in failure, the house is served 
by Town water. The lot is on a peninsula and the shape of the lot makes is difficult to design a fully 
compliant system.  Variances requested are offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 70 feet and offset from 
tank to cellar wall 10 feet to 5 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Mayhew, the variances were approved. 
 
322 FLAT HILL ROAD 
 
John Boardman, Engineer, met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Th e owner is requesting a well 
variance from 50 feet to 14 feet.  The owner has a large parcel of land and is proposing dividing it into 
three lots.  One will contain the existing house and the two remaining lots will be to the rear of the 
property off of a common driveway.  The lot which has the original house on it is served by a private 
well.  Once subdivided, this well does not meet the offset requirement from the newly created common 
drive. 
 
George Emond stated that he does not believe that this is a var iance that the board can grant.  The 
owner has created this situation by subdividing the property and believes that a new well will have to 
be drilled. 
 
After discussion, it was decided that this matter would be continued until January 6, 2020 at 7 pm. 
 
64 ARBOR STREET 
 
Matthew Woodrow (Woody) was present at the meeting together with Ryan Stober.   
 
Chairman Perry Jewell stated that the Court had dismissed the case without prejudice meaning that the 
board could refile and seek relief.  Chairman Jewell state d however, that was not the intention of the 
board, but rather , the board is requesting that the septic tank be replaced in accordance with the 
conditional Title 5 report issued in October of 2018. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Woodrow stated that he felt that the board sent the l etter requesting the tank be replaced at the 11 th 
hour.  He also feels that the board has not treated him fairly and used faulty information to bring him to 
Court.  He feels that he has been persecuted and demeaned by the Board. 
 
Chairman Jewell stated that the Board may have made errors and, at this point, would just like the tank 
replaced. 
 
After discussion, it was agreed that Mr. Woodrow would replace the tank.  It was agreed that he could 
have one year, or until January of 2021 for the tank replacement.   Replacement must be by a licensed 
installer certified by that installer. 
 
Motion by Fortin, second by Mayhew.  All in favor. 
 
Motion 
Meeting adjourned at 8:15 pm 