===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, June 15, 2020 
 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond and David Passios were 
Present.  Also Present, Jim Garreffi, Board of Health Agent, Nashoba Associated Board of Health. 
 
Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and  broadcast over 
Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted remotely.  The 
Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massach usetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted 
remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website COVID -19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet 
entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation 
unless such participation is required b y law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  For this 
meeting the Board of Health  is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as 
posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that t his meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell  then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
  
48 WEST STREET TERRACE 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system is in failure.  The old system is a septic pit 
that is sitting in groundwater; the property is served by public water. 
 
Variances requested are length of pipe over 100 feet, 200 feet proposed.  Groundwater offset from 5 feet to 4 
feet. 
 
The property slopes down to the back.  It has sandy gravel with no ledge.  The 200 foot length is not a problem 
with appropriate cleanouts. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second  by Emond the variances were approved.  All in favor by 
roll call vote. 
 
===PAGE 2===
58 PAGE HILL ROAD 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system is in failure.   This property is on public 
water.  There is ledge on the front corner of the property and this is a tight sloping lot to design a system on.  A 
Presby system is being proposed 
 
Variances being requested are groundwater offset from 4 feet to 2 feet (Presby) 
Sieve Analysis (30 MPI) 
 
After discussion and on motion by Emond and second by Passios the board voted to approve the variances.  All 
in favor by roll call vote. 
 
30 BAKER STREET 
 
 
Brian Milisce met on with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure, the current system is pits 
and they are proposing to replace it with a new field and tank.  The water table is deep and they found good 
course sand w ith testing.  The system is under the existing parking area.  Emond questioned whether there 
would be a problem with settling.  Agent Garreffi is not concerned with soil below.  Over time the soil above 
may settle. 
 
Variances requested are offset to property line from 10 feet to 5 feet  
Offset to cellar wall/slab foundation 
Barrier to be constructed as per engineered plans. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Emond and second by Passios, the variances were approved with barrier.  All 
in favor by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Garreffi spoke with regard to the Covid update.   
 
Given the recent and ongoing demonstrations, anyone in a large group can now get testing at a “pop up” testing 
site.   The closest  location to Lunenburg is in Fitchburg.   Agent Garreffi is hoping that numbers do not rise and 
was encouraged by the fact that the people attending the demonstrations were generally compliant. 
 
Town Meeting – it was reported that approximately 50 to 60 people attended Town Meeting.  There was a block 
consent vote on the first 15 Articles.  Everyone wore masks and business was completed in approximately 3 
hours. 
 
Beaches – Awaiting water testing.  If there is bacteria present, it requires and addition test.  Town beach, 
Hickory Hills and Emerald Place Beach opening has been delayed until the end of the month.  Shady Point is 
now open.  Beaches must have managed operations in place before opening.  Numbers must be limited and 
social distancing enforced. 
 
Camps – Camps can open.  The guidelines for camps are extensive.  The groups must remain small.  Sanitizing 
is required.  Group must stay together, you cannot change groups.  Social distancing or masks are required.  
Agent Garreffi is managing all camps. 
 
Hannaford Supermarket has had complaints but Agent Garreffi stated that Hannaford’s is compliant. 
 
Dave Passios stated that depending on how the election goes, his last day as a member of the Board of Health 
will be June 23rd so it the Board has need to complete a task he is available until then. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Chairman Perry Jewell thanked Dave Passios for his time on the Board and wished him well as a member of 
Parks Commission.  He stated that Dave provided a refreshing and constructive perspective for the board. 
 
 
On Motion by Emond and seconded by Passios, the meeting was adjourned.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 