===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, September 21, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Warren Mayhew 
and Paul Fortin.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Pu blic Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30 A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remo tely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will fe ature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorde d and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry J ewell then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
52 SPRING STREET 
 
Steve Marsden was present to represent the owner of the property.   A new septic system has been designed and 
installed on this property and a new house (tear down rebuild) has been constructed. 
 
Previously, three residences were connected to a single well.  In addition to 52 Spring Street, 54 Spring Street 
and 58 Spring Street all shared a single well.  Wha t is being proposed is a new well that will only serve 52 
Spring Street.  54-58 Spring Street will continue to share the original well. 
 
A variance is being requested from 100 feet to 90 feet for the on-site well from the new septic system. 
 
Jim Garreffi s tated that this lot is small.  It originally had two old camps structures that totaled four bedrooms 
and were grandfathered.  The two old structures were removed and one new four bedroom house was 
constructed.  This well will serve the new four bedroom home and will be disconnected from the original shared 
well. 
 
Paul Fortin asked how far Lake Shirley is from this property.   Steven Marsden stated that it is more than 300 
feet on the other side of the road. 
===PAGE 2===
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and seco nd by Mayhew, the variance was unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
73 ROLLING ACRES 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This lot is .46 acres and is served by public water.  The 
foundation elevations are set and cannot change.  Pro viding a variance for groundwater offset from four feet to 
three feet keeps the mound lower and the proposed system is a better system than what is currently on the 
property.  In addition, a variance is requested for less than 12 in ches for inlet and out let tees due to the 
groundwater offset. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the variances.  All in 
favor by roll call vote. 
 
125-129 WHITE STREET 
 
Mike Andrade met with the board on behalf of the owner, the housing authority.  The property being discussed 
is 3 single family homes that make up a portion of the White Street complex.  Currently, the system for one of 
these single family houses is in failure.  The decision was made to design a system to serve  all three homes.  
Due to the wooded site and slope, the only place to put the system is less than 100 feet from the wetland. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that this site is tight, has good soil and a perc rate of less than 2 MPI.  It is really the only 
place to site the system.  The only variance being requested is offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 78 feet. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Mayhew and second by Jewell, the variance was unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Jim Garreffi stated th at there are changes and amendments to Covid guideline daily.  Currently, Lunenburg is 
seeing 1 or 2 new positive test cases a week.  We continue to address complaints received from the State as well 
as complaints that come into our local Board of Health o ffice.  We have complaints on restaurants as well as 
concerns about the wearing of masks. 
 
Mr. Garreffi stated that the Lunenburg town wide flu clinic will be held on October 14 th at the new Jr/Sr High 
School.  Seniors will be from 3 pm until 5 pm and 5 pm  until 6 pm will be for everyone.  Nashoba is continuing 
to work with the schools in effort to try and mitigate overlapping Fu and Covid.  Nashoba is able to vaccinate 
anyone over 6 months of age. 
 
There are 15 towns that make up Nashoba Associate Board of  Health.  Lunenburg residents can do to any clinic 
posted on the schedule if they are unable to attend on October 14th. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on Motion by Mayhew and seconded by Fortin, the meeting was 
adjourned at 8:45 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 