===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, June 1, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Chairman, Perry Jewell :  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin, Warren 
Mayhew (partial) and Evan W atters.  Also Present, Jim Garreffi, Board of Health Agent, Nashoba 
Associated Board of Health. 
 
Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting  is being recorded and broadcast over 
Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted remotely.  The 
Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Bo ard of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Ce rtain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted 
remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website COVID -19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet 
entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation 
unless such parti cipation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  For this 
meeting the Board of Health  is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as 
posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetin gs, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell  then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
Chairman Perry Jewell noted that this was the first complete meeting for new member Evan Watters.  The board 
members introduced themselves and welcomed Evan to the board. 
  
26 RAMGREN ROAD 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Leslie Shultz, property owner,  was also present.  This 
system is in failure.  This is an upgrade to a two family home.  Variances being requested are: 
Groundwater offset – 4 feet to 3 feet 
Sieve Analysis (High groundwater level) 
Inlet and out let tees to 4” from 12’’. 
 
The request for the reduction in inlet and outlet tees is required  because of a plumbing change in the  accessory 
housing unit.  Tee elevations are controlled by the pitch of the sewage pipe exiting the foundation and  the septic 
tank to control the flow and must be adjusted based on the heights of outlet at the foundation and the septic tank. 
  
The water table is high so a sieve analysis was necessary.  Agent Jim Garreffi has no issues with the requested 
variances. 
===PAGE 2===
 
After discussion an on motion by Emond and second by Fortin, the board approved the three variances with th e 
condition that the variance request letter be corrected to include actual distances.  All in favor by roll call vote. 
 
23-25 HOLLIS ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the Board on behalf of the owner.  The system is currently in failure and this proposed 
replacement has been designed to allow for gravity flow.  The site had good soils but the water table is just high 
enough to require a variance. 
 
Variance requested:  groundwater offset from 5 feet to 4 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Emond and second by Watters, the variances were approved.  All in favor by 
roll call vote. 
 
120 SUNSET LANE 
 
Steve Marsden met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The current system is in failure after 10 years.  The 
tank was set incorrectly which made it run constantly, ultimately overwhelming the system.  This is an existing 
two family home with 3 bedrooms in each side and is 60 feet above the lake. 
 
Agent Garreffi  stated that the new system, as  designed, is as far away from the lake as possible.  The  well 
servicing the property is on one side and septic systems on the other.  The property has a steep grade.  As a 
requirement of the permit being, approved, the existing wall will need to be checked for potability. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Emond, the variances were approved.  All in favor by 
roll call vote. 
 
717 RESERVOIR ROAD 
 
Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf stated that a two bedroom deed restriction was placed on this property 
with one bedroom in the main house and one bedroom in the unit over the garage. 
 
Inasmuch as a new, fully compliant, septic system was installed in 2017, the current owner would like the deed 
restriction removed from the property. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Emond, the board voted to remove the deed restriction.  
All in favor by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Garreffi spoke with regard to the Covid update.  He stated that the biggest issue being faced now is mask 
wearing.  We are receiving many complaints that masks either are not be worn properly or not being worn at all.  
We try and educate as to the guideline and requirements, especially with retail establishments.  If businesses 
continue with non-compliance, escalated enforcement could become necessary.   
 
Currently, bars can only be open with a food service license and the food must be prepared on site.  No bar 
service is allowed. 
 
The board does have the ability to fine as well as close down a business for noncompliance when the following 
have been completed: 
 
Verbal warning 
===PAGE 3===
Written warning 
Fine a maximum of $300.00/day 
Serve a cease and desist order 
Summons a business to District Court 
 
Administrative Assistant asked if the board would be will to set a dollar amount to fine a business, should that 
be necessary.  Chairman Geor ge Emond stated that no, it would have to come before the board again before a 
fine could be issued. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that the Town Beach is now open.  Lunenburg’s beach is unique in that you have to 
walk through the building in order to access the beach.  He stated that they have done a good job in opening and 
managing the beach as there have been no issues. 
 
Hickory Hills beach was closed due to high E-Coli counts, which is unrelated to Covid 19. 
 
Agent Garreffi stated that school openings are u nder the control and direction of each individual town based on 
the Health conditions in that town.  The reopening guidelines are available on the website. 
 
Warren Mayhew was no longer a part of the meeting. 
 
REORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD 
 
Nominations as follows: 
 
Chairman George Emond nomination by Paul Fortin 
Vice Chairman Perry Jewell nominated by Paul Fortin 
Secretary – Paul Fortin nominated by Perry Jewell 
 
On motion by Paul Fortin and second by George Emond the above were elected.  All in favor 
 
Perry Jewell – Yes 
George Emond – yes 
Paul Fortin – Yes 
Evan Watters – Yes 
 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on Motion by Emond and seconded by Watters, the meeting was 
adjourned at 8:45 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 