===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, November 16, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and 
Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg P ublic Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public  
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.3 0A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely rem otely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will f eature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being record ed and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
93 WHITE STREET 
 
Dan Proctor was present to represent the owner.  This system is in failure and the property is served by  public 
water.  This is a straight forward upgrade.  An offset to groundwater from 5 feet to 4 feet is being requested.  By 
allowing this offset the system will fit better on the lot with a tighter grade.  There are no wetlands on the site. 
 
Agent Jim Garr effi agreed that this is a very straight forward plan , with the best system having been designed 
for the lot. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variance was unanimously approved by roll 
call vote. 
 
81 MAPLE PARKWAY 
 
Steve Sears met with the board on behalf  of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This lot and the surrounding 
lots are on town water.  This is a narrow lot, 100 feet wide and 300 feet deep.  Half way back is wetlands and  
      
===PAGE 2===
they also border one side.  Because the water table is high, a sieve analysis was performed.   Because of the 
extensive wetlands, there is limited space on the site to place the system.  Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet 
Use of a sieve analysis 
Inlet and outlet tees less than 12 inches (to accommodate current plumbing in the house) 
Offset to wetlands 100 feet to 51 feet 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that this is a tough site with high groundwater.  There is a limited portion of the site that can 
be utilized due  to the wetlands.  This variances being requested are a balance to lower the system to provide 
better grading and keep a distances from the wetlands.  This is a good compromise for this lot. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Watters, the board voted to approve the variances.   All 
in favor by roll call vote. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters all previous minutes were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Chairman George Emond commended Agent Jim Garreffi on a letter that he prepared and sent out to board 
members, as well as Town Administrator Heather Lemieux and members of the Selectboard  with regard to 
Covid.  Chairman Emond stated that he felt it was very well written and, if members of the board had not had an 
opportunity to read the letter, they should do so. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that there are numerous changes and amendments to Covid guideline daily.  Re-
opening is based on risk level, specifically “red” communities as noted on the statewide Covid map.  Lunenburg 
is currently red.  We have moved into Phase 3, Step 2 which allows the bar portion to open for the serving of 
food with social distancing provisions in place.  Bars opening for alcohol are still prohibited.   We are allowing 
greater number at events and more people, up to 10 people, can now sit a table together at a restaurant.   In 
addition, restaurants stop serving food by 9:30 pm.  Alcohol can only be served with food and all food must be 
prepared on site.  In addition, there is a stay at home order from 10 pm until 5 am. 
 
We are seeing more cases now than we did last spring.  Currently, Lunenburg is still seeing 45 to 50 new 
positive test cases a week.  We have more people  coming into contact with more people.  It is important to 
social distance whenever you can.  Wear a mask in all public locations, including parking lots, sidewalks and 
office buildings.  Carry a mask at all times. 
 
Agent Garreffi has recommended to the boa rd that they start enforcement for all non-compliant establishments 
for overcrowding, seating and serving alcohol without food service. 
 
Garreffi stated that, currently, our cases are out pacing our ability to do contact tracing.  The State Collaborative 
in now doing some contact tracing for us.  He does not know what happened in the last week to push Lunenburg 
numbers up so high. 
 
Garreffi reiterated that you need to stay home until you get the results of your test.  If you are a close contact to 
a known positive case of Covid you must quarantine, even if you receive a negative test.   You cannot test out of 
quarantine.  It is important to protect ourselves as we don’t know where others have been or who they have been 
around. 
 
We continue to address complaints received from the State as well as complaints that come into our local Board 
of Health office.  We have complaints on restaurants as well as concerns about the wearing of masks. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Contact tracing is showing that private gatherings are accounting for the biggest increase in C ovid numbers and 
leading to clusters within families. 
 
There was discussion as to the difference in numbers from Nashoba reporting to State reporting.  Agent Garreffi 
stated that the state “sorts” out the information and corrects misreporting such as not really living in town. 
 
Agent Garreffi stated that with Special Town meeting tomorrow, he believes that all precautions are being taken.  
At Spring Town meeting all distances and mask requirements were adhered to.  There is still an exemption for 
people who can’t wear a mask due to a medic al condition and he has had conversation with the Town Manager 
with regard to this. 
 
Member Evan Watters has been tracking Covid numbers and it makes it easier to understand the difference from 
week to week.  Chairman Emond asked that those spread sheets be sent to the members and Agent Garreffi. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Emond and seconded by Fortin, the meeting was 
adjourned at 8:45 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 