===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF HEALTH 
MONDAY, June 1, 2020 
7:00 PM* 
AGENDA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.  
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the 
Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps 
communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance with 
the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings 
are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be recorded and be able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube 
channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting 
remotely:  
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86269993490 or  From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter 
Webinar ID:  86269993490.  If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail 
address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining 
the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed 
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
7:00 pm 47 Charlton Street Offset to ground water, sieve analysis 
7:15 pm 15 Crescent Terrace Building Permit Approval 
7:30 PM 35 Fitchview No enough soil, building permit approval 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL 
May 1, 2020 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
322 Flat Hill Road – Removal of 2 bedroom deed restriction on back land lots 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
Montouri Flea Market Opening 
Farmers Market Opening 
Guidance on Covid 19 State Re-opening 
- Beach and Camp Opening 
- Graduation Guidance 
- Town Meeting Guidance 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS: 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS: 
 
PUBLIC DISCUSSION 
 
ADJOURNMENT
===PAGE 2===
 