===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, October 5, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Warren Mayhew 
and Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg P ublic Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public  
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.3 0A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely rem otely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will f eature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being record ed and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
234 S ROW ROAD 
 
Doug Smith was present to represent the owner.  This system is in failure and the property is served by p ublic 
water.  The water table is just high enough to require a variance.  Variances being requested are offset to 
groundwater to 24” and less than 12” separation in inlet and outlet tees. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew, the variance was unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
1564 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  It is a good size lot and 
served by Town water.  Variances requested are groundwater offset to 36” and a reduction in the separation 
between inlet and outlet tee to less than 12”.  Grading on the lot will be better with the approval of the 
groundwater reduction variance. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Mayhew and second by Jewell, the board voted to approve the variances.  All 
in favor by roll call vote. 
===PAGE 2===
 
200 PLEASANT STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This is a large piece of 
property and currently a farm.  Due to the wetness at the time of testing, a sieve analysis was done. 
 
Variances being requested are offset to groundwater  to 24 inches, less than 12” for inlet and outlet tees and the 
use of a sieve analysis. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew, these variances were unanimously approved 
by roll call vote. 
 
67 AUTUMN LANE 
 
Nick Pauling representing the owner of the property, Erin Comesana, who was also present.   
 
A building permit was submitted to make an in law apartment in the basement of this house.  The bu ilding 
permit was denied and a request was made to meet with the board. 
 
What are being proposed are three additional rooms in the basement.  A kitchen, bedroom and living room.  
Also proposed is converting an upstairs bedroom into an office or library, wi thout making any changes to the 
upstairs layout of rooms. 
 
In accordance with regulations, this proposal exceeds both the allowed number of bedrooms as well as the total 
number of rooms in the house. 
 
Mr. Pauling stated that they were asking for relief fro m the 10 room limit and would be willing to put a deed 
restriction on the property. 
 
Chairman stated that one cannot undo a bedroom.  Simply changing the name to library or office is not enough.  
Although the currently owner is not intending to use this room as a bedroom, the possible use of the room in the 
future has to be considered. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that in order to approve this building permit, a 5 bedroom septic system would have to 
be installed. 
 
Perry Jewell stated that in order to approve this permit a wall would have to remove upstairs making one larger 
room out of two. 
 
After discussion it was determined that either a new 5 bedroom septic system would have to be installed to 
approve this permit or a wall removed to create a bigger space u pstairs.  In addition, a new septic tank would 
need to be installed to accommodate a new downstairs bathroom. 
 
After further discussion, this building permit application in its present form was denied by unanimous roll call 
vote. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew all previous minutes were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
COVID UPDATE 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that there are numerous changes and amendments to Covid guideline daily.  Currently, 
Lunenburg is still seeing 1 or 2 new positive test cases a week.  Re-opening is based on risk level, specifically 
“red” communities as noted on the statewide Covid map.  We have moved into Phase 3, Step 2 which allows the 
bar portion to open for the serving of food with social distancing prov isions in place.  Bars opening for alcohol 
are still prohibited. 
 
We are allowing greater number at events and more people, up to 10 people, can now sit a table together at a 
restaurant. 
 
We continue to address complaints received from the State as well as  complaints that come into our local Board 
of Health office.  We have complaints on restaurants as well as concerns about the wearing of masks. 
 
Some of the biggest jumps in Covid numbers are in college student.  Agent Garreffi stated that people are being  
testing whether they are symptomatic or not. 
 
Member Mayhew stated that 96% of patients are asymptomatic and asked where the closest “red” city was.  
Agent Garreffi stated it is Worcester. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that the Lunenburg town wide flu clinic wil l be held on October 14 th at the new Jr/Sr 
High School.  Seniors will be from 3 pm until 5 pm and 5 pm until 6 pm will be for everyone.  Nashoba is 
continuing to work with the schools in effort to try and mitigate overlapping Fu and Covid.  Nashoba is able  to 
vaccinate anyone over 6 months of age. 
 
There are 15 towns that make up Nashoba Associate Board of Health.  Lunenburg residents can do to any clinic 
posted on the schedule if they are unable to attend on October 14th. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Mayhew and seconded by  Watters, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:45 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 