===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, October 19, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Warren Mayhew 
and Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Publi c 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c. 30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely re motely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recor ded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
595 FLAT HILL ROAD 
 
Mark Ferrell was present to represent the owner.  This syste m is in failu re.  An al ternative system is being 
proposed with a variance for groundwater offset from four feet to three feet.   
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that the soils were tough, there is a slope to the property and distances to wells had to 
be considered. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew, the variance was unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
145 SOUTH ROW ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  It is a small size lot with the 
surrounding lots being served by public water.   
 
Variances requested are offset to ground water from 4 feet to 3 feet. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that it is a small lot and this design is the best system for the lot. 
 
After discussion and on motio n by Mayhew and second by  Watters, the board voted to approve the variances.   
All in favor by roll call vote. 
 
455 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This is a large piece of 
property.  Due to the location of the well and garage and lack of soil, a Presby system has been designed.   They 
are requesting to keep the septic tank, which will be inspected. 
 
Variances being requested are offset to groundwater for 4 feet to 3 feet.   
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that although it is a big lot, it was difficult to find soil.  This system keep all 
components away from wells with no impact to the house and is the best solution for the lot. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew, these variances were unanimously approved 
by roll call vote. 
 
166 S. ROW ROAD 
 
Steve Sears represented the owner of the property. 
 
This is a very small lot.  There is a tie in for town water.  This is two bedroom home and a Presby system has 
been designed.  By using a Presby system, n o retaining wall is required although there will be a poly barrier 
installed. 
 
Variances requested are groundwater offset from four feet to 2 feet, reduction in inlet and outlet tees from 12 
inches to six inches. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that because th is house is on a slab, the plumbing cannot be raised or lower ed so the 
inlet and outlet tee variance  is necessary.  He also stated that he explained that the current well could be 
destroyed or they could come to the board to retain the use of it for irrigation purposes. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Watters, these variance was unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew all minutes were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that there continue to be numerous changes and amendments to Covid guideline daily.  
Currently, Lunenburg is still seeing 1 or 2 n ew positive test cases a week and although the risk levels in other 
communities are going up, Lunenburg continues to be low risk. 
 
Of concern now is youth sports and sports teams with carpooling being of concern.  Situations like a group 
home having high numbers could change the map but that type of outbreak is self-contained. 
 
In the days up to mid-September Massachusetts was testing 20,000 to 30,000 per day.  Now we are testing 
14,000 to 16,000 per day.  Mr. Garreffi cannot account for the change. 
 
===PAGE 3===
The question was asked if we are testing in Public Schools.  No testing is taking place in the scho ols.  Testing 
happens if you are sick or in close contact to a Covid positive person.  Nurses in schools are not doing testing.   
 
Mr. Garreffi spoke with regard to team sports, leagues and youth sports and stated again how very important it is 
to maintain social distancing and wear masks.  Carpooling has become a problem. 
 
There are 15 towns that make up Nashoba Associate Board of Health.  Lunenburg residents can do to any clinic 
posted on the schedule if they were unable to attend on October 14th. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on Motion by Jewell and seconded by Mayhew, the meeting was 
adjourned at 8:45 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 