===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 17, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin,  Evan 
Watters and Lisa Normandin.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Departme nt of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This me eting will feature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
Chairman George Emond welcomed new member Lisa Normandin to the board. 
 
249 PLEASANT STREET 
 
Doug Smith met w ith the Board on behalf of the owner.  This is a small .29 acre, tight lot with high 
groundwater.  This system is designed with fill and will take up the whole back yard.  Mr. Smith noted 
that upon review by our review engineer and agent, Jim Garreffi, it was determined that the math 
calculations were incorrect.  Mr. Smith believed that groundwater was at a lower level closer to the 
house, which is not the case. 
 
He further stated that Bob Proctor will be g oing into the house to see if the plumbing in the h ouse can 
be raised.  If this is possible the tank would be higher and they would be able to meet the variances as 
asked for on the current plan and variance letter. 
 
The current variances requested in accordance with the submitted plan and variance letter are offset to 
groundwater to 24 inches, tank inlet and outlet tees less than 12 inches, pump inlet and outlet tees and 
the use of a sieve analysis to determine perc rate. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Agent Garreffi stated this is a tight lot with high groundwater.  The lot slopes awa y from the house 
toward the solar farm.  Because of the high groundwater variances to tank outlets are requested.  Mr. 
Garreffi suggested that the Board approve the worst case scenario so that this matter can be resolved 
tonight without the need to come be fore in the future.  If Mr. Proctor inspects the house and the 
plumbing cannot be raised, the alternative will have been approved.  This would include the 
requirement for monolithic tanks and rubber boots as the tanks would then be in groundwater. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that he is not comfortable with approving variances without know the 
situation with the house or approving variances or a plan that is not presently before the board.  He 
would be willing to approved the variances are as originally presented  in accordance with the plan 
before the Board. 
 
Mr. Smith stated that is doesn’t know if the inlet and outlet tee requests will change but they will get as 
close as possible. 
 
Mr. Garreffi suggested that the Board modify the request to reflect the possible  change and vote to 
approve and if it is possible to raise the plumbing it will only get better.  In this way, this can then 
move forward. 
 
Mr. Smith agreed to monolithic tanks and rubber boots no matter the situation. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that he is not  comfortable with what ifs or maybe’s.  He is willing to approve 
these variances as originally submitted and should there be a change, this matter would have to come 
before the board again with a new plan and new variance requests. 
 
Upon motion by Jewell a nd second by Watters, the board unanimously approved the requested 
variances as originally submitted with the condition of monolithic tanks and rubber boots.  All in favor 
by roll call vote. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
April 5, 2021 
May 3, 2021 
 
On motion by Watters and second by Jewell, the minutes were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi gave a Covid Update. 
 
The rolling average  over the past 2 weeks is gray .  The positivity rate in Lunenburg has dropped 
significantly. 
 
Governor Baker announced that due to the fact that cases statewide have dropped significantly and 
vaccine is widely available, Massachusetts will be open beginning May 28 th.  The changes made today 
by Governor Baker are staggering. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Masks are no longer required inside or outside.  Businesses can open to full capacity with all industries 
open.  Masks are still required in certain settings: 
 
Healthcare 
Congregate Living 
Schools 
Mass transportation including terminals 
 
Work place standards have been reduced, with the exception of the above, to almost none.  Cleaning is 
now ordinary cleaning without the requirement for enhances sanitation. 
 
The Governor Emergency Order will be lifted as of June 15, 2021.   
 
Agent Garreffi stated that this has been done 2 months early  and has taken out the interim steps.  He 
believes that this step forward is a good one.  He stated that people need to look past the headline and 
understand where there are still restrictions in place. 
 
Member Fortin asked if our next meeting will be in per son.  No, not until after June 15 th so our second 
meeting in June could be in person. 
 
Evan Watters congratulated Lisa Normandin on her election to the board and welcomed Paul Fortin 
back to the board. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Watters and seconded by  Fortin, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:40 pm by roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 