===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, November 1, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Evan Watters and Paul Fortin.    
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
398 SUNSET LANE 
 
Greg Roy met with the board on behalf of the owner.  A well variance is being requested.  This is a 
demolish and rebuild.  There is an existing shallow well.  What is being proposed is a new artisan well.  
Currently, the well is 16 feet from the property line.   What is being proposed is an artis an well 34 feet 
from the property line (shore line of the lake).  Variance requested is property line offset to well from 
50 feet to 34 feet. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that the existing leach area will be used for the new hou se (3 bedroom installed in 
1985) and a small retaining wall is proposed between the leaching area and the driveway.  In order to 
maintain 100 feet from the leaching area and the proposed new  well, the well will be less tha n 50 feet 
from the property line (lake).  The granting of this variance will not affect any abutters.  The proposed 
well is an improvement over what is presently existing. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variance. All in favor. 
 
326 FLAT HILL ROAD 
 
Ken Matson, owner,  met with the board.  When the as -built was submitted for the well at the above 
location, it was drilled too close to the property line (less than 50 feet).  Mr. Matson’s explanation is 
that there was an error made as to where the property line was separating the two lots.  Mr. Matson 
owns both lots.  Mr. Matson stated that the location of the well does not have an effect on either lot.  
Mr. Matson is requesting an offset to property line for the well from 50 feet to 35 feet.   
 
 Agent Jim Garreffi stated that the lot is large and the well location should not affect abutting lots and 
does not see a problem with granting the requested variance. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Watters, the board voted to approve the 
variance.  All in favor. 
 
909 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
James and Irene Rivers met with the board.  They are proposing an addition to their residence.  The 
addition, as proposed, will  exceed the total number of bedroom allows as we ll the total number of 
rooms allowed in the structure. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The board advised that the septic system on this property is in excess of 50 years old.  In addition, 
because of soil testing on the adjacent lot, it would appear that the system at this house would b e in the 
groundwater. 
 
Chairman George Edmond told the Mr. and Mrs. Rivers that the board could not further consider 
signing the building permit without a Title 5 Report being completed.  Should the report pass, they 
would still need to reduce the room cou nt to meet requirement and a deed restriction would need to be 
placed on the property. 
 
After discussion, Mr. & Mrs. Rivers advised that they would be discussing putting an addition on their 
house before moving forward. 
 
MARSHALL PARK 
 
Greg Roy met with the board to discuss the replacement septic system at Marshall Park.  Dave Passios 
was also present. 
 
Mr. Roy stated that testing had been completed at the park and the most suitable place found was in the 
location of the old bath house.  In designing a syst em, in the space available, he has determined that 
using a Presby System that would fit into the topography as well as the groundwater, a 1,000 gallon a 
day system can be designed.  A 1,000 gallon day system would support 200 people per day using the 
facilities. 
 
After discussion and a consensus of the board, Mr. Roy is moving forward with designing a 1,000 
gallon per day Presby System. 
 
68 LAUREL LANE 
 
A hearing on this matter was continued until after the first of the year. 
 
Having no further matters befo re the board and on  Motion Jewell and seconded by  Watters, the 
meeting was adjourned at 8:10 pm, all in favor. 
 
 