===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, September 20, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Evan Watters  and Lisa Normandin .   
Agent Jim Garreffi was also present. 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
August 16, 2021 
 
On motion by Normandin and second by Jewell, minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
42 PEARL STREET 
 
Brandon Ducharme met with the board together with the owners, Joanne and Butch Magurn .   A new 
well is be ing proposed.  Currently, the existing well at 37 feet is too close to the septic system  and 
needs to be relocated.  This is a very tight lake front lot.   A new drilled well, steel cased and is sealed 
to bedrock is being proposed.  Offset variances are requested as follows: 
 
Leach field – 100 feet to 61 feet 
Septic Tank – 50 feet to 45 feet 
Sewer Line – 50 feet to 30 feet 
Property Line – 50 feet to 41 feet. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that what is being proposed is better than what is there and he has no issues with the 
variances being approved. 
 
Lisa Normandin asked wh at would happen to the old well.  Chairman Emond stated that it will be 
decommissioned. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Jewell, the board unanimously approved 
the requested variances.  All in favor. 
 
284 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
Tom Alonzo and Christine Foltz, owners, met with the board.  The owners are proposing construction 
of a garage on a slab foundation on their property.  It was always a plan to include a garage on this 
property. 
 
The septic system on this site has a septic tank and pump chamber, which are downslope from where 
they are proposing to build the garage.  The garage will be attached to the home and accessed through 
an already existing door.   
 
Regulations require 10 feet distance from the proposed garage to the septic tank.  They are proposing a 
6.5 foot offset. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Chairman Emond stated that he has no issues with the request inasmuch as the septic tank and pump 
chamber are down slope from the proposed garage and the c ost of moving the tank and pump chamber 
would be substantial and create an undue hardship. 
 
Vice-Chair Perry Jewell stated that he does not feel that the construction of a garage with the reduction 
in offset would pose an increase in environmental concern and further the moving of the tanks is not 
easily feasible and would be costly. 
 
After further discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Normandin, the board voted to 
approve the variance.  All in favor. 
 
30 WEST STREET TERRACE 
 
Dan Proctor met with  the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  Testing was done 
with a 5 MPI perc rate.  The lot is small and is served by public water.  A Presby system is proposed.  
Variance request is for groundwater offset from 4 feet to 2 feet. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that he has no issues with the request. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.  All 
in favor. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi gave a Covid Update. 
 
Lunenburg is seeing a large number of positive cases and an increase in cases in family groups.   This 
past week there were 12 cases at 4 addresses.  Mr. Garreffi stated that he does not have an explanation 
for the increase in Lunenburg.  Labor Day there were 6 cases in one household.  We are seeing cases in 
churches, daycares and large gatherings.  Some are not answering the call from contact tracers. 
 
Currently there are no mandates in Lunenburg. 
 
5 WALLIS PARK 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that the tenant contacted him in February for a housing inspection.  The landlord 
had put in a mini split for heat, but it couldn’t keep up.  There were also mice. 
 
The Landlord asked for an extension to complete the work but did not respond to Mr. Garreffi when 
asked for an update.  A letter was sent and was responded to today stating that the repairs have been 
completed and is ready for inspection.  Mr. Garreffi will report back after inspection. 
 
441 TOWNSEND HARBOR ROAD 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The house is being torn down and rebuilt on 
the same footprint as trees came down and crushed the house. 
 
A Presby system is proposed.  Testing showed a perc rate of 2 MPI.  The existing house was a two 
bedroom, and the plan will be amended for a new two bedroom to be re-built.  The property is a lake 
===PAGE 3===
front lot served by public water.  Variances requested are offset to wetland from 100 feet to 59 feet and 
groundwater offset from 5 feet to 3 feet. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that this is a dog leg shaped lot with a high water table.  A 2 bedroom deed 
restriction will need to be placed on the property. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the variances were approved with 
the need for a 2 bedroom deed restriction.  All in favor. 
 
360 FLAT HILL 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that this property is a lot that is being split off of Flatt Hill orchard.  The purchaser 
is proposing 8 building lots on this 22 acre site. 
 
The concerns moving forward are what contaminants are in the soil as this property was utilized as an 
apple orchard with sustained pesticide use. 
 
Perry Jewell asked if this area is served by public water.  Jim Garreffi said no, that private wells would 
need to be utilized.  The houses in this area with wells have low water quality and low water capacity. 
 
A letter was sent to the developer stating that soil testing would be required to determine if there are 
any contaminants including arsenic.  If contaminants are found, mitigation would need to take place. 
 
35 PLEASANTVIEW  
 
Joe Brogna, owner, met with the board.  He is proposing to construct a new 2 car garage with a 
greenhouse above it.  There is a 4 bedroom septic permit on the property which would allow a total of 
9 rooms.  Currently there is also an in-law apt above the existing garage. 
 
Jim Garreffi explained the definition of bedrooms and total rooms by Title 5 definition and explained 
that Mr. Brogna’s house was currently (without any additional space) at or above the allowable number 
rooms in accordance with the existing septic permit. 
 
Mr. Brogna shared pictures of his house and the Board of Health and Building Department files were 
reviewed. 
 
After further discussion it was determined that Mr. Brogna’s house was already at the maximum 
number of rooms.  Unless the number of rooms in the house can be reduced, a building permit for the 
additional living space cannot be approved unless the septic system was expanded to allow for the 
additional rooms. 
 
The board rejected the request without prejudice and advised Mr. Brogna that he could resubmit his 
request with either the allowable number of rooms or an expansion of the septic system. 
 
71 WILDWOOD 
 
Nichole Kirouac met with the board on behalf of the owner.  An addition to an existing house is being 
proposed that exceeds both the allowable bedrooms as well as the total number of rooms.  This house 
has a 3 bedroom septic. 
===PAGE 4===
 
As currently presented, even with the changes that were made to present for the meeting, the addition 
exceeds what is allowable for both bedrooms and total number of rooms.  Possible solutions were 
discussed such as removing walls.  A revised plan will be submitted for review in keeping with this 
discussion and a reduction in room count. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on Motion by Normandin and seconded by Watters, the 
meeting was adjourned at 9:05 pm, all in favor. 
 
 