===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, October 18, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Evan Watters and Paul Fortin.    
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
30 JOHNSON STREET 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is likely in failure as it was 
installed in 1985 and is a leaching pit .  This is a small lot and has a perc rate of 2 MPI .  What is being 
proposed is a gravity system with a pump chamber .  Variances requested are offset to wetland from 
100 feet to 70 feet and a groundwater offset from 5 feet to 4 feet. 
 
The existing house on the property is to be torn down and a new structure will be built on the same 
footprint.  There will be no change in the number of rooms. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that the proposed system is more compliant that what is existing at this site now.  It 
will be greater than 100 feet from the existing well and have a four foot offset to ground water .  He has 
no issues with the proposed plan. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by  Fortin, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variances. All in favor. 
 
195 ROLLING ACRES 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The septic system would most li kely be in 
failure due to high groundwater.    This is a large lot served by public water.  Because of the rainy 
summer, the soil was too wet to perc so a sieve analysis was used.  A Presby system is being proposed. 
 
Variances requested are offset to groun dwater from four feet to three feet, sieve analysis and inlet and 
outlet tees at less than 12 inches. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi requested changes to the plan.  He requested that the back of the slope be stabilized 
by moving the tank downhill .  This would also a llow the tanks to move out of the groundwater.   
Provided the changes were made to the plan, he had no objections. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Jewell, the board voted to approve the 
variances, with the changes to the plan.  All in favor. 
 
186 WHITE STREET 
 
Kevin Ritchie met with the board on behalf of the  owner.  This system is in failure and a Presby 
system is being proposed.  The property is served by public water. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Variance being requested in accordance with DEP Presby approval is groundwater offset from 5 feet to 
3 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Watters, the board unanimously approved the 
request.  All in favor. 
 
61 UPLAND AVENUE 
 
Jim Moran met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system is  in failure.  Soil testing was done 
on the site and there is no area where there is sufficient pervious soil (2+ feet) to design a system.  Title 
5 Regulations do not allow for a system design where the minimum cannot be met. 
 
Mr. Moran is proposing the use of a Tight Tank as the only alternative for a replacement system on this 
property. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi said that after doing substantial testing on the site, there is no area to place a septic 
system.  The only alternative is a tight tank.  A tight tank requires the approval by the board as well as 
a deed notification and an operation and maintenance contract. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Watters the request was approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
68 LAUREL LANE 
 
A housing inspection was performed at this address at the request of the tenant , which request was 
made on September 18, 2021 .  An Order to Correct was issued to Elizabeth McColligan, the owner of 
the property. 
 
Ms. McColligan requested a hearing before the board in accordance wit h the Order.  Ms. McColligan  
met with the board to discuss and request and extension of time to repair the issues noted on the Order.  
The Summary Process Agreemen t signed in Housing Court by the Tenants on Sept ember 17, 2021 
states that tenant will pay rent for the months of October, November and December and vacate the 
property on or before December 31, 2021.  Ms. McColligan is requesting an extension until after the 
tenants vacate to make the repairs with the exception of smoke detectors, which had been scheduled. 
 
One of the violations requires application for a variance to Housing Code for ceiling height, which was 
discussed at the meeting. 
 
Chairman George Emond told Ms. McColligan that the board understood her position and a letter 
requesting the variance would be sufficient and she would not need to appear before the board again. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, an extension to complete repairs was 
given until January 21, 2022.  All in favor. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi gave a brief Covid Update. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Positive cases saw a decline in the past 14 days from 84 to 58 cases.  Households still represent the 
majority of the cluster cases in town.  A cluster is defined as two or more cases at a single address.   
 
Having no furt her matters before the board and on  Motion Jewell and seconded by  Watters, the 
meeting was adjourned at 8:10 pm, all in favor. 
 
 