===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, February 14, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, and Evan Watters.   Agent Jim Garreffi 
was also present. 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
January 7, 2022 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
68 WILDWOOD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This is a failed system that had been installed 
in the 1970’s.  Testing showed a perc rate of 8 MPI.  A replacement Presby system is being proposed.  
Variance requested is offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet.  The property is served by public 
water. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variance. All in favor. 
 
444 CHASE ROAD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board.  This system is in failure.  The property was too wet to do test holes so 
a sieve analysis was completed instead and showed a perc  rate of 5 MPI.  The only variance being 
requested is the use of a sieve analysis. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Jewell, the board voted to approve the 
requested variance.  All in favor. 
 
1 VALLEY ROAD 
 
The septic permit for this property expired in April of 2021, during Covid.  The current owner of the 
property would like to begin installing the system and is asking for a one year extension. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the board voted to appro ve the 
request for a one year extension until February 14, 2023.  All in favor. 
 
64 ARBOR STREET 
 
Mr. Woodward, the owner, met with the board.  He is proposing to subdivide his property retaining a 
lot with the current house and splitting off a building lo t.  As part of this process, Agent Jim Garreffi 
supplied Mr. Woodward with the Board of Health regulations regarding dividing land .  Those 
Regulations require a Title 5 report be completed on the existing house and that the requirement to 
===PAGE 2===
show the location  of a new replacement system must be shown on the subdivision plan .  This is 
required to insure that required property for a replacement system is not being subdivided off. 
 
Mr. Woodrow did not believe that he should have to submit an additional Title 5 an d did not want to 
invest additional funds in showing where a replacement could be located. 
 
After much discussion, the Chairman, with the support of the board,  again informed Mr. Woodard 
again that he would have to comply with Title 5 Subdivision rules by providing a current Title 5 
Report and show the location of a replacement system on remainder lot on the subdivision plan. 
 
Mr. Woodrow indicated to the board that he would be resubmitting the plan with the required 
information. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Ga rreffi reported that Covid cases within the Town are significantly lower.  Cases are half 
what they had been. 
 
Nashoba will continue to hold  vaccine and booster clinics and will be able to offer other vaccines 
besides Moderna. 
 
BUDGET 
 
The budget was prese nted to the Board.  There is a substantial increase in the assessment to Nashoba  
associated Boards of Health.  The increase is due to the yearly 5% increase as well as an adjustment for 
the increase in population derived from the census in 2010 to the census in 2020. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:35 pm, all in favor. 
 
 