===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, March 21, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Evan Watters.    
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
February 14, 2022 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Watters, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
100 CHESTNUT STREET 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the Lunenburg Parks Commission.  This discussion 
is for the replacement septic system as Marshall P ark.  Soil testing was conducted and a new  
replacement Presby system has been designed.   The system as designed is a pump system with a 3000 
gallon tank and 1,500 gallon pump chamber.  Soil Testing showed a perc rate of 6 MPI. The design as 
presented will allow for 1,000 gallon per day or 200 people in accordance with Title 5 Guidelines for a 
park/playground. 
 
Variances being requested are offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 58 feet 
Groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet 
Less than 4 feet of pervious material to 2.33 feet 
Inlet and outlet tees less than 12 inches to 4 inches 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that he doesn’t have any issues with the requests and that the addition of 
bathroom facilities at the park would be a public good. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variances. All in favor. 
 
STELLA’S 
 
The owner, Allan Souza met with the board.  Mr. Souza advised that he was able to obtain a test date 
for April 4, 2022 for the Restaurant Managers Certification.  
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters , the board voted to approve the 
extension.  All in favor. 
 
1 VALLEY ROAD 
 
The septic permit for this property expired in April of 2021, during Covid.  The current own er of the 
property would like to begin installing the system and is asking for a one year extension. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion, and on motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the 
request for a one year extension until February 14, 2023.  All in favor. 
 
1432 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
This is a continuation from Board of Health meeting on March 7, 2021. 
 
The Board is now in receipt of the Title 5 report for this property.  After much discussion and on 
motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the Boar d voted to Pass the Title 5 report with the conditio n 
that the well water be tested  yearly.  Well testing to include, but not be limited to, coliform bacteri a, 
nitrates, nitrites and ammonia .  In addition, the septic tank that is under the deck must be ma de 
accessible. 
 
All in favor. 
 
PERMIT EXTENSIONS 
 
441 Country Road 
205 Sunset Lane  
 
After discussion and motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the above Septic Permits were extended 
for one year from the date of the meeting or until March 21, 2023.   
 
As per Agent Jim Garreffi, this is based on the fact that during the pandemic the State passed 
legislation regarding the expiration of permits from State permitting authorities and local permitting 
authorities (separate legislation).  The legislation is not real clear but on the local levels it provided 
Boards flexibility in granting permit extensions for permits which were active from the start to the end 
of the declared State of Emergency (roughly 3/13/20 – 6/15/21).  The above referenced permits fall 
within this period.  All future septic permit extensions will revert to Title 5 regulations.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:35 pm, all in favor. 
 
 