===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, March 7, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Lisa Normandin.   Agent Jim Garreffi 
was also present. 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
 
JENNA MONTGOMERY 
 
Jenna Montgomery, Public Health Educator/Communications Specialist , met with the Board.  Ms. 
Montgomery stated that she joined Nashoba Associated Boards of Health in September under a grant.  
The grant is to run for two years.  She stated that her position/job is to support Public Health Education 
by interacting with all the Nashoba towns to inform and integrate the two. 
 
Ms. Montgomery has created a Newsletter to update the member towns as well as providing 
information and an explanation of what Nashoba does and how  they do it , including substance abuse 
and mental health. 
 
The Board welcomed Ms. Montgomery. 
 
1432 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
As part of a Title 5 report that was completed to prepare for the sale of this property, a wate r test was 
required due to the distance between the well and septic system.  The nitrate level was “8”.  The 
drinking water standard is  “10” or below however the current nitrate level is too high for Title 5 
standards. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi is recommending p assing this Title 5 report as the nitrate level is below the 
drinking water standard with possibly yearly testing. 
 
In as much  as the Title 5 report has not yet been submitted, no action will be taken until our next 
meeting. 
 
71 PLEASANT STREET 
 
Bob Proctor met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The property is 
connected to town water.  Soil testing showed a perc rate of 1 MPI.  A Presby system is being 
proposed. 
 
Variance requested is offset to groundwater from 5 feet to 3 feet. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that he has no issues with the granting of the variance and that the system 
will fit nicely in property. 
===PAGE 2===
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the variance was granted.  All in 
favor. 
 
236 CROSS ROAD 
 
Bob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The current system 
was installed in 1981 as a 3 bedroom, fully compliant system.  A Presby system is being proposed.   
Variances requested are offset to groundwater f rom 4 feet to 2 f eet, reduction in inlet and out let tees 
from 12 inches to 8 inches and 10 inches respectively and the use of a sieve analysis  in lieu of a perc 
test. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that he has no objections to the variances provided the house  remains a 3 
bedroom home. 
 
Bob Proctor stated that the owner does not want to do the additional work necessary to convert this 
home to a 4 bedroom. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the variances were granted.  All 
in favor. 
 
STELLAS 
 
Allan Souza, owner of Stella’s met with the board.  Currently the required Food Managers 
Certification expired last fall.  Food Service Inspector Bridgette Braley advised Mr. Sousa that he had 
60 days to submit  valid Certification.  To date, Ms. Braley has not received the certification. 
 
Mr. Sousa advised that the incorrect class was taken and wi th the onset of Covid he has had difficulty 
finding someone giving the course.  He advised that he has tried to complete t he course on line but has 
been connection problems. 
 
After discussion, the board continued this discussion until their next meeting on March 21, 2022 with 
the understanding that Stella’s food service license could face suspension if the required Food 
Managers Certification submitted to Nashoba. 
 
72 HEMLOCK 
 
Courtney Zivojinovic met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The owner is proposing alterations to 
the home as well as finishing the basement.  The property has a 3 bedroom septic currently installed.  
The original building pe rmit was not signed off by office staff because too many rooms were being 
proposed based on the size of the septic system.  Mr. Zivojinovic is before the board with an amended 
proposed floor plan that has reduced the number of additional rooms in keeping w ith the allowable 
flow of the septic system. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the board approved the amended 
floor plan.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:35 pm, all in favor. 