===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 2, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Evan Watters.   Agent Jim Garreffi 
was also present. 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
March 7, 2022 
March 22, 2022 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
30 JOHNSON STREET 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner, Paula Val ente, who was also present.  
The replacement septic system as approved at a previous meeting.  The existing well on the property is 
not producing adequate water.  An effort to repair/ frack the well was not successful so a new well is 
being requested. 
 
The abutting, vacant lot is not bui ldable, according to Ms. Valente .  She is requesting an offset to 
property line for the new well from 50 feet to 21 feet.  She is also asking to retain the existing well for 
gardening purposes.  She stated the well will be disconnected from the house. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by  Fortin, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variance. All in favor. 
 
21 WEST TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
The owner of the property, Mr. Horgan, is requesting a one year extension on the septic permit for this 
property.  The property is vacant and the permit is due to expire this month.   
 
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Jewell , the board voted to approve the 
extension.  All in favor. 
 
36 PEARL STREET 
 
Chris Stoddard met with the board on beha lf of the owner.  This is for the upgrade/repair of a two 
bedroom system.  The property is surrounded by private wells.  This property also has a private well.  
The system, as designed, would be 100 feet from the surrounding wells but only 65 feet from the  well 
on site.  Other than the distance to well, this plan is fully compliant with Title 5. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Watters, the board voted to approve the 
variance.  All in favor. 
 
===PAGE 2===
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated th at there is an uptick in the number of cases ag ency wide.  The increase is 
being partially attributed to travel over school vacation week as well as the relaxi ng of mask mandates 
nationwide. 
 
The cases in Lunenburg have been in a steady climb.  Both school s and daycares are showing  an 
uptick.  The same system for contact tracing is in place  as has been in the past.  At this point in time, 
following trends may be most important. 
 
There is no record keeping of home testing so the number s are likely much higher.  Nashoba maybe 
offering booster shots in the fall along with the annual flu clinic. 
 
123 CHASE ROAD 
 
Attorney Peter Campobasso met with the board on behalf of the owners.  Chris MacKenzie was also 
present as well as owners Zachary Taylor, Zachary Taylor Jr and Julianne Taylor. 
 
Attorney Campobasso is requesting a deed restriction as to the number of bedrooms in the house, 
limiting bedrooms to five. 
 
This is new construction of a duplex, multi -generational home.  The existing structure is to be 
demolished.  One side of the duplex will have 3 bedrooms and one side will have 2 bedroom s.  The 
home will be held in one ownership between the parties so will never be divided into separate 
ownership. 
 
At issue is the floor plan of the home and the total number of rooms, which exceeds Title 5 regulations. 
 
Perry Jewell stated that the Board grants bedroom deed restricts on existing homes and to the best of 
his knowledge has never issued a deed restriction on new construction.  As new construction, why not 
make the system full compliant as is required? 
 
Owner stated that the cost to enlarge the system would be an additional $12,000 and at a minimum 
would require a six bedroom system. 
 
George Emond stated that he is bothered by the number of proposed room.  He stated that he has been 
looking at this carefully including the regulations.  It is a big house and exceeds Title 5 Regulations for 
the size of the proposed system. 
 
Perry Jewell stated that he does not want to set a precedent of using deed restrictions on new 
construction to circumvent Title 5 Regulations. 
 
Attorney Campobasso stated that he understands the regulations and that the deed restriction would be 
place in the deed and not as a marginal reference.  This has been done in other towns. 
 
Even Watters stated that with the high room count, if the required size of the septic system needs to be 
a 6 bedroom than a 6 bedroom system is required because this is new construction. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Applicant acknowledged that a fully compliant system would need to be installed.  The board advised 
that if a fully compliant system was designed, it would not have to come back before the board. 
 
After a lengthy discussi on and on motion my Fortin and s econd by Watters the request for a bedroom 
deed restriction was voted by roll call vote as follows: 
 
Jewell:  No 
Watters: No 
Fortin:  No 
Emond: No 
 
The request was unanimously denied.   
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:35 pm, all in favor. 
 
 