===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, August 15, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell and Paul Fortin and Evan Watters  
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
July 18, 2022 
 
On motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the minutes were approved. 
 
55 MAPLE PARKWAY 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure with a replacement 
Presby system having been designed.  The lot has a high perc rate and high groundwater.  T he 
proposed design limits the fill into the buffer zon e and maintains the sys tem using gravity flow .  This 
lot is served by public water.  
Variances requested are offset  to groundwater from 4 feet to 2 feet, the use of a sieve analysis  and 
offset to wetland from 100 feet to 51 feet. 
 
After discussion and on m otion by Jewell and second by Fortin , the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
127 PLEASANT STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system in in failure with and due to site 
constraints, a GeoMat system was designed.  This pr operty is connected to Town water.  This is a 
small 100 x 100 foot lot, .23 acres, has a high perc rate and high groundwater.  The system , as 
designed, is a pressure distribution system.  There is 2 inches over the  mat and 6 inches under the mat. 
A treatment septic tank is proposed to provide a cleaner effluent before it is discharged to the leaching 
area.  This tank requires annual maintenance and a deed restriction is required. 
 
Variances requested are offset to  groundwater from 4 feet to 2 feet, inlet an d outlet tees less than 12 
inches, sieve analysis, offset to cellar wall (leach field) from 20 feet to 10 feet (this system allows 5 
feet), cellar wall to tank 10 feet to 5 feet, pump chamber from 10 feet to 6 feet, wetlands offset from 
100 feet to 34 feet. 
 
Perry Jewell asked about treatment.  Doug Smith stated that circulation through media happens twice 
then passes through a filter to the pressure distribution.  There is no d-box with this design. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.   All in 
favor. 
 
80 BURRAGE STREET 
 
===PAGE 2===
The well at this property went dry.  As an emergency matter a  new location for a well was found and 
the well drilled.  Variance required is offset to property line from 50 feet to 35 feet.   
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the variance was granted.  All in favor. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
The two week case counts, as reported by the Department of Public Health, have been fairly consistent 
since the beginning of May (32-37) but it is likely higher due to the number of home tests being used. 
 
Surveillance continues of wastewater staying fairly consistent with weekly ups and downs. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 7:55 pm, all in favor. 