===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MINUTES APPROVED
May 1, 2023
On motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the above minutes were approved. All in favor.
131 COVE ROAD
Doug Smith met with the board of behalf of the owner. The owner of this property advised that the
system on this site is in failure.
This site is small, there are wetlands and the area available for a system is higher than the existing
house. In an effort to minimize the grading needed, the plan proposes to move the tanks closer to the
structure. Variances requested are:
Groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet
Offset to cellar wall - 10 feet to 5 feet
A 1000 gallon plastic tank is proposed, which has been approved by DEP. Some believe that plastic
lasts longer than concrete.
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Watters, the variances were approved.
All in favor.
77 PENINSULA DRIVE
Rob and Lisa Novella met with the board to discuss retaining the drilled well for irrigation purposes.
They are the prospective purchasers. The house is connected to public water.
Doug Smith was available. He is the engineer that designed the plan for the replacement septic system
and located the wells on the property. Mr. Smith stated that there is a drilled well that is disconnected
from the house and already set up for irrigation. In addition, there is a dug well in the corner of the
property that was actually, originally, connected to the neighboring house.
Mr. Novella stated that he would like to retain the drilled well as an irrigation well and abandon the
dug well. Chairman Emond stated that the dug well would have to be destroyed and the drilled well be
fully disconnected from the house.
The current owner will hire a contractor and the necessary paperwork will be submitted to accomplish
this.
===PAGE 2===
This property was purchased in October of 2022. What is being proposed is adding additional living
space to the property. They are proposing making the bedroom bigger and adding a master bathroom,
adding an entryway and a 2d floor loft that will be open to the downstairs. The loft area will be used
as a "work from home" office space.
Mr. Roy stated that the upstairs loft area has not been designed as a bedroom. In addition, the total
upstairs space will be left open with no partitions or walls.
Perry Jewell stated that the size of the livable area will double and he believes is outside of what can be
done with the property. It is a small lot surrounded by water.
After discussion and on motion by Emond and second by Normandin, the board voted to allow the
addition with the following conditions:
No further expansion of the property
No change in the layout of the loft and said space cannot ever be used as a bedroom
A deeded restriction be place on the property limiting the structure to four (4) rooms and one (1)
bedroom
Roll Call Vote:
Emond - Yes
Fortin - Yes
Watters - Yes
Normandin - Yes
Jewell - No
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Fortin and seconded by Normandin, the
meeting was adjourned at 8:20 pm, all in favor:
