===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, September 18, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Evan Watters and Lisa Normandin 
 
MINUTES 
 
None 
 
86 OAK RIDGE 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board of behalf of the owner.  Also present where Dale and Kevin Lucier 
and Francis Bergeron, abutters. 
 
Currently there is a cesspool on the property , which is in failure.  The property is served by a private 
well and in addi tion, there are abutting wells  within 100 feet of the proposed system .  One of the 
abutting wells serves more than one property.  This was a challenging lot.  The lot is small in size, has 
wetlands (lake), abutting wells all less than 100 feet from the proposed system. 
 
What is being proposed is a S ingular treatment tank , which would reduce the strength of the 
wastewater before it is discharged into the ground.  The treatment tank requires a service contract.  The 
alternative is a tight tank, which both the board and DEP do not favor. 
 
They are also proposing replacing the existing wall with an engineered block wall and wrapping the 
system in a poly barrier. 
 
Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to well:   100’ to 55’ #84 
   100’ to 89’ #80 
   100’ to 62.5’ #86 
Wetlands:  100’ to 50’ 
Property line:  10’ to 7.4’ 
Cellar Wall  Tank - 7’ to SAS -6’ 
Only one deep hole 
 
Currently, this property has a cesspool.  The system being proposed is a vast improvement in a septic 
system without having to install a tight tank.  T he proposed system is farther away from the well and 
provides treatment prior to being discharged to the ground.  The tank requires a Maintenance 
Agreement and the surrounding wells will be tested. A two bedroom deed restriction is also required. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the variances were approved with 
the condition of a Maintenance A greement on the tank, two bedroom deed restriction and testing of 
abutting wells.  All in favor. 
 
===PAGE 2===
318 HOWARD STREET 
 
Brian Melisi met with the board of behalf of the owner.  Also present was Kevin O’Brien, owner. 
 
This system on this lot is in failure with the leaching area in high ground water.  The property has high 
ground water.   
 
Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to groundwater  4’ to 3’ 
Inlet and outlet tees 
 
Both Mr. Melisi and owner Kevin O’Brien agreed to install a new septic tank and move both the septic 
tank and pump chamber closer to the road. The groundwater offset variance helps with grading. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All 
in favor. 
 
NEW NASHOBA AGENT 
 
Jim Garreffi met with the board to introduce Cara Olejarz.  Ms. Olejarz will be Lunenburg’s new 
Nashoba Agent starting October 2, 2023.  Ms. Olejarz has been  with Nashoba since November, 2022  
and has completed training.   
 
Jim Garreffi stated that he is looking to even out his time and reduce the number of towns he is 
currently committed to.  He will continue to be available to the board should they require it .   Ms. 
Olejarz is also the agent for Shirley.  She will be in Lunenburg on Mondays and Wednesday from 10 
until noon.  Jim Garreffi stated that he feels Ms. Olejarz is more than ready to be our agent. 
 
The Board welcomed her. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Watters and seconded by Normandin, the 
meeting was adjourned at 8:15 pm, all in favor. 
 
 