===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, July 17, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Evan Watters 
 
MINUTES 
 
May 15, 2023 
June 5, 2023 
 
Motion by Jewell and second by Watters to approve minutes.  All in favor 
 
131 ISLAND ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Also present were Michael Koneko and 
Toshiaki Kanek, abutters.   The current system on the property is in failure.  The lot is small with the 
lake behind it and a well on the property across the street, which is within 100 feet of the leaching area.  
This property is connected to public water. 
 
Due to the sit e restrictions, a well variance is  needed to the neighboring well from 100 feet to 72 feet.  
The proposed system is more compliant with Title 5 than what is currently existing. 
 
After discussion and input from the abutter , motion by Jewell and second by Watters  to approve the  
variance conditioned upon the abutter ’s well being tested and the recording of a two bedroom  deed 
restriction.  All in favor. 
 
1074 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.   The system at this property is in failure.  
This site is very small, wetlands (pond behind) and a number of wells .  The sewage disposal system to 
the left was recently upgraded to a tight tank.   The alternative to the proposed system would be a tight 
tank.  The proposed system is far superior to the system presently on the lot. 
 
What is being proposed is the use of Singulair treatment septic tank and a GeoMat leaching field, 
which will be pressure dosed.  This design maximizes the required offsets from wells, wetlands and 
property lines.  
 
Variances requested: 
 
Offsets to neighboring wells:  100 feet to 67.1 feet 
    100 feet to 62.7 feet 
    100 feet to 77 feet 
Wetlands:   100 feet to 50 feet 
Cellar wall:   20 feet to 6.5 feet 
===PAGE 2===
Property lines:   10 feet to 2.0 feet (Tank) 
    10 feet to 2.8 feet (Pump Chamber) 
Use of a Sieve Analysis 
Reduction of 25% in the required S.A.S.design requirements.  Required:  600 SF to 503 SF 
Reduction in Inlet and Outlet less than 12” due to house plumbing 
No deep Hole 
 
After discussion and on motion Watters and second my Fortin, the variances were approved with the 
requirement of a maintenance agreement for the tank.  All in favor. 
 
222 HOLLIS ROAD 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  Because of the 
location of the driveway, well and wetlands the space available for the placement of the system is 
reduced.  The perc rate on this property is 30 MPI. 
 
Variances requested: 
 
Offset to property line: 10 feet to 8 feet 
Offset to Groundwater: 4 feet to 3 feet 
Offset to wetland  100 feet to 59 feet 
Sieve Analysis 
 
There is a question of whether or not there is a required abutter notification, which was not done.  The 
Board allowed this hearing to go forward however, s hould that notification be required this matter will 
require rehearing. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin the variances were approve d.  All in 
favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion by Fortin and seconded by  Watters, the 
meeting was adjourned at 8:15 pm, all in favor. 
 
 