===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MINUTES
July 17, 2023
Motion by Jewell, second by Fortin, to approved above minutes. All in favor.
222 HOLLIS ROAD
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner. This is a rehearing of this matter due to
the fact that Mr. MacKenzie had not notified the abutter prior to the hearing in July.
Abutter notification was turned in. The abutter did not attend the meeting. There is no change to the
plan that was reviewed and approved in July.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the variances were again
approved. All in favor.
60 ELM STREET
Joe Rameau met with the board regarding this building permit. This house as reached the maximum
number of room allowed with the current septic system. Plumbing for a basement bathroom is already
installed. What is being proposed is finishing the interior of the exterior walls with insulation and
sheetrock.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the board approved one open
room in the basement with the condition of a deed restriction limiting the house to 4 bedrooms and 10
rooms total and no additional living space.
Emond
Approve
Jewell
Approve
Fortin
Approve
Normandin
Approve
Watters
Deny
PFAS DISCUSSION
The Selectboard has invited members of the Board of Health to attend their upcoming meeting to
discuss possible PFAS funding for private wells. The funding would come from ARPA funds the town
currently has.
===PAGE 2===
in testing tot PrAs.
Questions raised by the selectboara is coula the information obtainea Irom
testing not be reported to the Board of Health and where would the results be reported, who would
conduct the testing, how would it be utilized, would homeowners have to put filtration on wells at
homeowners cost, etc.
In addition, both the Commonwealth of MA and the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) have
indicated that they will be addressing PFAS after the first of the year. What is being circulated is that
the acceptable level of PFAS will be cut dramatically and there will be an extended time frame to
comply.
Perry Jewell stated that he is not presently in favor of using ARPA funds for the testing of private
wells. PrAS has been around for a long time and is present in many everyday products. The use of
PFAS compounds is to be phased out over a very long period of time. He is not in agreement with
bypassing Board of Health on this issue. Members were in agreement that testing should not bypass
Board of Health.
In addition, there are questions as to whether this would be voluntary testing, and a true understanding
by residents of the ramifications of finding PFAS in wells and what the cost of remediation would be.
After discussion, it was decided that the instant issue of using ARPA funds for private well testing is
not something that the board would favor at this time and would wait until after the first of the year to
see what the both the State and EPA propose.
Collectively, the board is willing to looking at currently well regulations and possibly include well
testing on conveyance, similar to what is done with Title 5 on septic systems,
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
Perry Jewell nominated for following:
Chairman
Vice-Chairman
Secretary
George Emond
Evan Watters
Lisa Normandin
There were no other nominations. On motion by Fortin and second by Jewell the above were elected.
All in favor.
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Fortin and seconded by Watters, the
meeting was adjourned at 8:15 pm, all in favor.
