===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
131 ISLAND ROAD
Hearing continued until July 17, 2023 due to a deficient hearing notice.
55 WEST STREET TERRACE
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner. The system at this property would be
considered a failure due to the high ground water table. This site is small, has high ground water and
soils present require a large system.
Because of the high ground water noted on the site, a sieve
analysis was completed. A Presby system is proposed.
Variances requested:
Groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet
Sieve Analysis
Less than 12 inches inlet and outlet tees
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the
variances. All in favor.
258 PLEASANT STREET
Dan Proctor met with the board of behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. The house is
connected to public water. This is a small lot with high groundwater and slow perc rate. Due to soil
conditions, a sieve analysis was performed. In addition, the elevation of the existing plumbing
combined with the groundwater elevation, a reduction from 12 inches in the inlet and outlet tees is
required.
Although this system is sized for a three bedroom home, the system cannot be designed in full
compliance for three bedrooms and a bedroom deed restriction will need to be placed on the property
for the currently existing 2 bedrooms.
Variances requested:
Groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet
Use of sieve analysis
Reduction in inlet and outlet tees
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin the variances were approved with
the condition that a two bedroom deed restriction be place on the property. All in favor.
===PAGE 2===
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the board voted to allow the
addition based on the plan submitted conditioned upon there be no further expansions or additions
to
the living space and the house will remain a 5 room, 2 bedroom house. All in favor.
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Fortin and seconded by Normandin, the
meeting was adjourned at 7:55 pm, all in favor.
