===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, July 15, 2024 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Matt Proctor 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
June 20, 2024 
 
 
142 WHITING  
 
Seth Mayer met with the board as the beneficiary of the Trust that holds this property.   
 
Sarah Mayer contacted the Board of Health for a housing inspection on the above property.  Agent Cara 
Olegarz and Bridget Brailey completed the inspection.  An Order to Repair was issued for numerous 
violations at the property.  To date, only a small number of those violations have been corrected. 
 
Mr. Mayer stated that he and his wife are in an acrimonious divorce situation.  By Order of the Probate 
Court Mrs. Mayer was giving possession of the Whiting Street property.   He further stated that Mrs. 
Mayer was to move to a different property and has not done so.  Mr. Mayer believes that Mrs. Mayer is 
responsible for part of the cost of repair.  It was explained to Mr. Mayer that the board cites the record 
owner, which is the trust.  Anything beyond that is a matter for the Probate Court. 
 
The board advised that they do not have any power to enforce an Order from the Probate Court.  That 
any issues concerning his divorce need to be resolved through the Probate Court.  The Order issued for 
this home is separate and apart from his divorce proceedings and the pending Board of Health violations 
need to be repaired. 
 
On motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the board voted to grant an extension to complete the 
repairs at which time Mr. Mayer is required to be present .  This matter was continued until August 19, 
2024 at 7 pm.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
35 EASTERN AVENUE 
 
Kirk Fitzpatrick met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Lots on Eastern Avenue are in an area where 
there is a lot of ledge and no depth in pervious soil.  Testing was completed and showed shallow depth 
to bedrock across the property.  A plan has been submitted for the installation of a tight tank. As the only 
acceptable system for this site.     
 
After discussion and on motio n by Jewell and second by Proctor the request was approved with a 2 
bedroom deed restriction.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Fortin and seconded by Proctor, the meeting 
was adjourned at 7:45 pm, all in favor. 
 
 