===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, August 19, 2024 
 
Edited content here! 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Matt Proctor   
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
No Minutes were approved 
 
142 WHITTING STREET 
 
Seth Mayer met with the board.  This matter was continued from the July 15 th meeting.  At the time of 
this meeting very few of the repairs have been completed.  Mr. Mayer stated that the bathroom sink 
faucet, hole in the tub and kitchen repairs would begin tomorrow.   
 
Perry Jewell stated that almost no repairs had been completed since the last Board of Health meeting.  
Mr. Mayer stated that he was having difficulty gaining access to the property.  Members of the board 
advised that Mr. Mayer was allowed reasonable access to complete repairs and would be willing to 
advise Ms. Mayer to allow access.  Mr. Mayer felt that he could complete repairs without Board of 
Health intervention. 
 
After a lengthy discussion and a discussion of what repairs are most important to complete, ie all interior 
repairs, living area repairs, bathroom, kitch en.  All doors need to be weather tight, screens need to be 
replaced, interior scraped of peeling paint and painted, areas with mold replaced.  Exterior repairs such 
as sill replacement and the tear down and/or rebuilding of the porch could be secondary at this time. 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Proctor this matter was continued until September 16th at 7 pm with 
the understanding that all interior living space repairs are completed as outlined on the original housing 
order prior to September 16 and penalties would accrue if repairs are not completed.   All in favor. 
 
747 CHASE ROAD 
 
As an update on the status of the Zone 1 well, Frank McParlan of Dillis and Roy advised that the well is 
completed. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 7:45 pm, all in favor. 
 
 