===PAGE 1===
 LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, February 2, 2026 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Matt Proctor, Paul Fortin, Lorraine Rudd and Nick Pirro.   
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
None 
 
 12 TOWN ROAD 
 
There is an open housing complaint on this property.  Most of the violations have been completed.  Still 
outstanding are floor repair and hooking up the dishwasher.  More time is required for the floor as the 
existing flooring has been discontinued and is of a difference thickness than what is available now.  This 
requires the whole floor to be replaced.  The dishwasher would need electric available.  Electric is not 
currently available for the dishwasher.  The owner is in the process of hiring an electrician to make 
electric available. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Rudd and second by Fortin, a 30 day extension was granted.  All in 
favor. 
 
922 FLAT HILL ROAD 
 
Larry Greene met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This is a small 1/3 acre property that slopes to 
a wetland.  It is a teardown/rebuild.  This will also need a new well. A Presby system is proposed. 
 
Variances requested: 
 
Offset to groundwater from 5 feet to 3 feet; 
Offset to wetland from 100 feet to 55 feet 
Use of a Presby 
 
Well Setback:  50 feet to 39 feet side yard 
              50 feet to 12 feet front 
 
After discussion and on motion by Pirro and second by Rudd, the board voted to approve the well 
variances.  All in favor. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Pirro, the board voted t o approve the septic 
variances with the addition of a two bedroom deed restriction.  All in favor. 
 
106 BEAL STREET 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the  owner.  This system is in failure.  The estimated 
groundwater is at 30 inches.  A Presby system is proposed. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Variances requested are: 
Offset from 4 feet to 3 feet 
Use of an IA system 
Sieve analysis 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Pirro the variances were approved.  All in favor. 
 
150 FLYNN STREET 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  Groundwater is 
at 60 inches.  This is a small lot on Lake Shirley.  Information in the Board of Hea lth files suggest that 
this is a three bedroom house.  The board has accepted it as such. 
 
Variances requested are: 
 
Use of an IA system  
Offset to well 100 feet to 88 feet 
Offset to wetlands 100 feet to 30 feet 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin an d second by Pirro, the variances were approved with the 
requirement for a 2 year 
 service agreement on the system.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further business and on motion by Rudd and second by Proctor the meeting was adjourned at 
5:55 pm.  All in favor. 