===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, June 15, 2026 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Matt Proctor, Lorraine Rudd Nick Pirro and Paul Fortin 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
June 1, 2026 
 
On motion by Rudd and second by Fortin the minutes were approved.  All in favor.  
 
146 YOUNGS ROAD 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This is a replacement 
system on a small lot with estimated groundwater at 60” making it impossible to install a fully compliant 
system.  At the time of testing, the soils were wet so a sieve analysis was utilized. 
 
The old sys tem is being dug out with the replacement system being installed is in its place.  A poly 
barrier is being stalled.  
 
Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to wetlands:          100 feet to 34.5 feet 
Offset to well:                  100 feet to 80.0 feet 
Use of a sieve analysis 
                  
Perry Jewell noted that Agent Cara Olejarz’s notes stated that a water test was suggest prior to a 
Certificate of Compliance being issued.  After discussion, motion made by Fortin and second by Jewell 
to approve the vari ances with the condition that a water test be completed prior to the issuance of a 
Certificate of Compliance.  All in favor.   
 
222 WEST TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
The contractor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This is the “remainder” property of an ANR 
that consists of the original house and barn.   The house was built in 1880.  A new 4 bedroom septic 
system was just installed.  The owner is renovating the house and will have 4 bedrooms but the house 
has 11 original rooms. 
 
The owner is requesting a deed re strict for 4 bedroom with a total of 11 rooms to match the original 
layout of this house. 
 
After discussion and motion by Rudd and second by Jewell, the request was approved.  All in favor. 
 
  
===PAGE 2===
LOCAL VARIANCE REQUIRED FOR AN IA (INOVATIVE) SEPTIC SYSTEM 
 
The Town of Lunenburg has a local variance requirement for all IA systems . This variance has been in 
place for a considerable amount of time.  All of the innovative systems are approved by DEP, some of 
which have become a standard for septic installation.   
 
The board discussed allowing a letter request, similar to a request for a groundwater offset, to be allowed 
for the approval of an IA system. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Rudd and second by Fortin, the board approved a letter request for 
the approval of an IA system.  All in favor.  
 
REORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD 
 
Lorraine Rudd nominated the following: 
 
Chairman – Matt Proctor 
Vice Chairman – Perry Jewell 
Secretary – Paul Fortin 
 
On motion by Rudd and second by Pirro, the above were elected.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:45 pm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
. 