===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, July 20, 2026 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Matt Proctor, Lorraine Rudd and Paul Fortin 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
June 15, 2026 
 
On motion by Rudd and second by Fortin the minutes were approved.  All in favor.  
 
757 CHASE ROAD (Car Dealership) 
 
Greg Roy met with the board on behalf of the tenant (dealerships).  The tenant is requesting the old well 
be retained for: 
 
Irrigation 
Car Washing (future) 
Fire Suppression (future) 
 
Agent Cara Olejard stated in her comments that she has concerns with Car Washing prior to the 
installation of an industrial holding tank due to prior complaints of car washing draining into the Town’s 
storm drains and most recently into the wetland.  A site plan showing the proposed car washing area as 
well as the proposed industrial wastewater hold tank is needed. 
 
The following documents are required: 
Documentation that the existing well has been disconnected from the potable water systems and 
buildings; 
A site plan showing the proposed car washing area; 
Plans for the proposed industrial wastewater holding tank; and 
Conditioned on the installation of the holding tank prior to any car washing on site                       . 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Rudd, this matter was continued until August 
17th at 4:30 pm.  All in favor. 
 
48 ISLAND ROAD 
 
Danny Hernandez, owner, was present at the meeting.  Mr. Hernandez has had public water connected 
to the house but would like to retain the well for irrigation purposes.   
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Rudd, the board voted to allow the existing well 
to be used for irrigation purposes with the receipt of a document showing the house has been completely 
discounted from the house.  All in favor. 
 
OLD PRIMARY SCHOOL – 30 SCHOOL STREET 
===PAGE 2===
 
The Food Pantry is in discussions to find a new location due to the decommis sioning of the Passios 
School.  One of the options and the most available location is the Old Primary School land.  When the 
school was decommission and eventually knocked down, the decision was made to retain the septic 
system for future use as a park.   A Title 5 was completed.  The system is a pump system.  The pumps 
need replacing as well as the property being reconnected to public water.  There is a stub at the end of 
the street. 
 
What is being proposed is using funds from the Board of Health Grant Fund  to repair the system for 
future uses as a park.  Short term, the system  could be used for the temporary site of food bank.  The 
food bank is proposing temporary trailers.  If the food bank does decide to move forward, they would 
need to provide the Board of Health with a site plan of their proposal.  In addition, they would need a 
food service permit through Nashoba Associated Boards of Health. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Rudd and second by Fortin, the board voted to allocate up to $50,000 
for the repair of the septic system at the Old Primary School for the temporary use of the Food Pantry 
(with conditions) and future use of a park.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:45 pm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
. 