
Minutes of 10/5/23- Master Plan Steering Committee Meeting
Roll Call of Attendees- Chair: Joeci Gilcrest (Economic Dev.), Vice-Chair: Tim Willsmer (Planning Board), Evan Watters (Finance Com.), Karin Menard (Parks), Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging), Dick Mailloux (Trustees of Library), Lou Franco (Select Board), Jerry Reid (Resident), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), and Carol Archambault (School Committee)
OUTREACH FOR PUBLIC EVENTS- Adam noted that October 21st will be Homecoming and Shrieks &amp; Krieks. OverUnder, RKG and Anez will create 2 teams. One team will set up a table during Homecoming at the Boys and Girls Club, next to the Lions Club.  They will have some info-graphics, surveys, and bookmarks with the QR code for the survey.  They will also attend the Monster Midway at Shrieks &amp; Krieks, to engage more people with kids. Adam said the first big public forum will be held 11/2 in the Library’s community room. They plan on setting the model up and the existing conditions report should be available. The LBA will be running Trunk or Treat 10/28. Joeci noted it will be a walk through this year and a good opportunity to give out promotional material since a lot of adults attend. Joeci will distribute surveys from her trunk and encourage others to do so. Rami is also interested in having a table there and he said the model would be available for 11/2. Adam said the design files are done for the model. It will be a 5’ x 7’ model of the town of Lunenburg and it will be an exaggerated z-access topographic to show various elevations in town. It will have a clear Lexan top with streets and significant buildings on it. You will be able to walk around and make notations with a dry erase marker. It will become a display piece for the town and will help with development patterns. The Committee discussed asking businesses and community organizations to display the surveys. Carol said the school department can distribute them and Karin added the Parks MyRec.com can blast out events. Lou asked how they developed the model and Adam replied they used Lidar at 2’ which gives an accurate representation. Evan has a contact at Boy Scouts and suggested events at Lanni Orchards. Joeci reported she created a Facebook page for the Master Plan Committee and encouraged all to Share with friends. She talked to Rami and there will be a link from the website to the Facebook page. Adam stated they are creating on a website called PlanLunenburg.com which will be separate from the town website but there will be a link to the town’s website. They will be posting updates, material they create and do surveys through the website. There will be an interactive component for comments and signing up for a newsletter. The website should be live by 10/21. Matt (Planning Board) will be meeting with Rami every 2 weeks and Adam will check on use of the room at Library on 11/2. The Committee discussed giving out surveys at Rolling Acres, Arrive Condos and Hickory Hills Association. Debbie suggested putting information on Channel 8 &amp; 9 cable channels. Adam suggested contacting the Lunenburg Ledger to have someone do column on the Master Plan and/or place an ad. He noted the Master Plan does not have an advertising budget but the Planning Board does for placing ads in the Ledger. Lou said announcements can be made at Select Board meetings. They can email Kari McCarthy to put it on all the socials and Facebook pages. Adam suggested sending the survey QR code to all town newsletters. 
COMMITTEE COMMENT- none
PUBLIC COMMENT – Committee agreed to have a meeting on 10/19 at 6pm to go over details for the 11/2 forum. 

Motion: Joeci G.                                                                                                                               Second: Lou F.
To adjourn at 6:41pm.  Roll Call Vote: Dick M., Karin, Jerry, Evan, Lou, Debbie, Tim, Carol and Joeci -all aye.

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk


























