===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 12/14/23- Master Plan Steering Committee Meeting  
Roll Call of Attendees- Chair: Joeci Gilchrest (Economic Dev.), Vice-Chair: Tim Willsmer (Planning Board), Karin 
Menard (Parks), Carol Archambault (School Committee), Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging), Lou Franco (Select 
Board), Jerry Reid, Rami el Samahy (OverUnder) 
Update from Over/Under- Rami noted they had a successful event in November, as well as at Homecoming events, 
and the Boys & Girls Club event.  They have taken all the information to add to the Existing Conditions report which 
he will be sending to the Committee. There have been 205 survey responses so far, but he is concerned about the 
small number of renters participating and would like advice on targeting that demographic. Overall, the responses 
show a good spread of age, income, and education levels, which is a good representation of the town. There is a lot 
of consensus on preserving the agricultural nature of Lunenburg, as well as preserving and repurposing municipal 
buildings. The survey will be open until the end of January, prior to the next public meeting and Rami proposed 
having that event on February 1st. Rami has been in touch with Matt and Joeci bi-weekly since November. Joeci 
asked if the February meeting will be like the November event. Rami replied he would like to coalesce around vision 
and goals, which the survey is helping to achieve, giving some clues as to where they can find consensus. The 
general format will be like the November event, unless the committee would like something different. Regarding 
different times of the day, usually the evenings are more successful. Rami stated the format would be a short 
presentation and then have 2 or 3 breakout sessions for discussion. Joeci noted there were suggestions to seek out 
a different venue to reach other demographics.  Rami stated the venue was successful, but a different venue may 
attract other groups of people. The Committee discussed other options of using a municipal building and meeting 
during the day. Joeci asked Rami if they can pick a day and have multiple sessions to accommodate different groups 
like seniors or working mothers. Rami replied his team could do 2 meetings in a day, such as a morning and evening 
event. Committee members said they could be available and that weather could also be an issue. Karin suggested 
doing the morning session at the Senior Center’s big room or use the Library and Debbie will check availability at the 
Senior Center. Other options discussed were the TC Passios cafeteria, the High School, and Turkey Hill School. 
Carol said she could check into Turkey Hill. The evening session will be 6:30pm- 8:30pm at potentially Turkey Hill 
and to be determined at the Senior Center.  Rami asked if anyone had any thoughts about targeting the rental 
community and Karin suggested asking former members of other committees who live in rental communities.  Joeci 
said Evan had a contact at the Arrive community and she can add to the Facebook page that they need responses 
from all demographics. Rami said they have not targeted those under 18, but the responses have been 25-34yrs – 
6%, 35- 44yrs – 40 %, 45-54yrs – 29%, 55-64yrs -13%, and 65-74yrs – 8%. Debbie will bring paper copies to the 
Senior Center for those who can’t do them online. Rami asked to have them completed by 1/26/24 and he will have 
them collected.  
February 1 st Event – Joeci said once they confirm the venues, they will create a flyer and distribute the information. 
Jerry asked if Smokestack had been successful as a venue and Joeci replied it was. Jerry questioned whether as 
many people will come out if there are no food/coffee options. Joeci asked Rami if there will be additional gatherings 
in the future. Rami replied there will be at least 2 more- one to present the goals and 3 options for carrying them out. 
Then they need to develop the scenario that has the consensus.  He estimated a gathering in late spring and one in 
the fall. Joeci suggested using the meetings to cater to certain demographics.  
Additional Opportunities for Outreach  – Joeci noted they talked about setting up tables in front of storefronts and 
having QR codes for surveys to reach a different demographic. She would like to revisit the idea. Karin suggested 
setting up at High School basketball games and she will check on that.  She noted if they have a table at Walmart, 
there would be people from other towns—not just Lunenburg.  A copy of the 2nd survey was sent home from schools 
before Thanksgiving and Rami said they did get 100+ responses. Joeci will check on the game schedule and 
members can let her know if they are available. The Post Office was also suggested. Karin asked if there will be a 3rd 
survey and Rami replied yes.  Karin suggested having that survey available for the Town Meeting in May.  
Committee Comments – Kim Duffy suggested blasting any events on Facebook.  
Public Comments- Dave Passios, 56 Whiting St. – commented that at the Smokestack event, there was a slide on 
the various municipal buildings, stating that the town has kept up pretty well with its municipal buildings, but he 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
wanted to go on the record saying that many of us know we have not. He does not want the narrative to go into the 
master plan as history and existing conditions, saying that we have done a good job of keeping up our infrastructure 
because we have not.  
Kim Duffy- 1479 Mass Ave- noted she is a member of the Green Communities Committee and she wanted to raise 
awareness about the activities that committee can do, such as grants for the town.  They are looking into more 
community outreach, in terms of agriculture and sustainability. She would be interested in how they could work that 
into the Master Plan through community habits, healthy environment, and sustainability. Joeci invited Kim to consider 
joining the committee and vocalize more of those opinions.   
Adjournment - 
Motion: Karin M.,   Second: Jerry R. 
To adjourn at 6:47pm.                           Roll Call Vote: Karin, Tim, Lou, Debbie, Carol, Joeci and Jerry – all aye.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT –  
 
 
Motion:                                                                                                                                    Second:  
To adjourn  at  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
Handouts:  