===PAGE 1===
Minutes of  10 /19 /23-  Master Plan Steering Committee Meeting
Roll Call of Attendees -  Chair:  Joeci Gilcrest  ( Econ omic  Dev.) , Vice-Chair: Tim Willsmer  
(Planning Board) , Evan Watters (Finance Com.), Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging), Dick 
Mailloux (Trustees of Library), Lou Franco (Select Board),  Jerry Reid , Carol Arch ambault 
(School Committee)  and  Rami el Samahy (OverUnder)
DECIDE ON DETAILS FOR NOV. 2 ND  FORUM  – Joeci  noted that Rami sent an informational 
flyer that they can post and give out. She will ask someone at Town Hall to make copies and will
email it  to the committee members. Joeci  read the verbiage on the flyer stating  a comprehensive
plan is being developed, looking at land use and resources, to help shape the town for the next 
5-15 years .  They need to create a shared vision, requiring input from all corners of Lunenburg. 
There will be several public engagement opportunities, including a public meeting on 11/2 at 
Smokestack Roasters, 6:30- 8:30pm. Rami stated  they will do a short presentation on what they 
are doing and then have 2 breakout sessions. A question will be given,  and the group will divide 
into smaller groups, led by one of their team  to facilitate  discussion. Fun activities will be used to
break the ice and encourage discussions. One member of each group will then report back to 
the larger group. After that, there will be a final open session for questions. Rami is hoping to 
have the town model available to promote interest. They will attend Homecoming and the 
Shrieks & Krieks  events to get information out  about the public meeting. The website, 
planlunenburg.org  will be live next week. On the website, people will be invited to attend the 
meeting and fill out a survey. High School students and the general community filled out a 
previous  survey with 163 responses.  The second survey will have more focused questions that 
will launch before the public meeting but will also ask for responses at the public meeting. Joeci  
asked how the committee could assist  him on 11/2. Rami said they will come with 4 or 5 of their 
team, but it would be helpful if Joeci  or Matt Brenner could say some introductory words 
regarding  the consultants and it being a town initiative. The Steering Committee team is a liaison
between the consultants and the community. Joeci  reiterated their mission is to bring awareness
to the 11/2 public meeting. She asked Rami if the flyer is good to share on Social Media  and 
Rami said yes. Joeci  will post the flyer on the Master Plan Committee Facebook page. Carol 
said she can email it to the Superintendent ’s office who will get to parents of school age kids. 
     Lou asked if PACC will be there to record the public meeting and Joeci  confirmed they will 
record the front table introductions and resident questions .  Breakout sessions will not be 
recorded, and it will not be live because of the location. Lou said he will put the flyer on his page 
and will platform it at Select Board. Rami added if anyone had questions or comments on the 
flyer to let him know. Joeci  asked where the QR code on the flyer goes,  and Rami replied it 
takes you to the website planlunenburg.org . Currently, you need a password to get in but once 
the website is active, it will go right to the website. He added they could make it live tomorrow. 
Rami screen-shared the flyer for the committee to review. Joeci  noted that Smokestack will be 
open, with their full menu for purchase and it was suggested to add a caption stating  that on the 
flyer. 
UPDATE ON UPCOMING EVENTS FOR OVERUNDER TO ATTEND - Joeci  asked if there 
are any other community events after Homecoming, but no one knew any. She asked Rami 
where he was  setting up at Homecoming and he replied in front of the Boys and Girls Club. 
Carol said the Lion ’s Club sells food near there so a lot of people will be in that area. The other 
option  would be near the Football Field. Evan suggested moving to the Football Field at 1pm 
and Rami agreed. 
OPEN DISCUSSION FOR COMMITTEE MEMBERS TO ASK OVERUNDER QUESTIONS-  
Joeci  asked if anyone had questions about the Master Plan. Lou said the public meeting would 
help open the floodgates for questions. Rami stated  they have been working quietly and this will 
===PAGE 2===
be their chance to open up  discussion on the plan. Also,  they have been working on an Existing 
Conditions Report looking at all aspects of the plan, to compile the first understanding of the 
town through each of these components. They will present an executive summary at the public 
meeting and then make the report available. After that, with input from the community and the 
committee, they will start to articulate goals and visions for the plan in December/January. It 
would make sense to have another public meeting during the first quarter of next year for 
feedback again. Joeci  said she is really excited  to see who shows up at the public meeting and 
the questions asked. 
OVERUNDER ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS  -
COMMITTEE COMMENT  – Evan noted the Municipal Building Design Committee has 
submitted a  Special Town Meeting warrant article to give an interim report and asked Rami if 
OverUnder has done this previously . Evan suggested  they could give a report at the Spring 
Town Mee ting  and distribute it to the town afterwards . Lou said he thought that wou ld be a good 
idea and would float the idea to the Select Board. Rami replied he would be able to do that. 
Carol asked if they want to distribute bookmarks at the 11/14 Special Town Meeting and Rami 
replied  he will make sure there are items to give out on 11/14. Debbie Lincoln said they are 
welcome to put written items in the Senior Newsletter and Sue Doherty can advise on the 
newsletter deadlines for submission. Evan asked about sending items to the Superintendent ’s  
newsletters and Carol said she will forward  items from Joeci to that office. 
PUBLIC COMMENT  - Tony Sculimbrene  via phone suggested Rami look at the Phase 3 of the 
Municipal Building Design Committee .  Also, he suggested advertising the public meeting in the 
Lunenburg Ledger. He suggested getting ideas from the various outreach efforts Rami has and 
bringing  them to a statistically based survey of Lunenburg residents. If they want to reach all of  
the people buying into the Master Plan, you could say we are thinking of doing this or that --do 
you like it – yes or no. When finished, you have a document of what people think – not just the 
ones that show up to meetings. Rami said they will have 4 or 5 surveys. The 2 nd  survey will state  
-- this is what we heard from the 1 st  survey – do you agree or disagree.   The 3 rd  survey would be 
more about the vision. By summer, they will look at scenarios and different ways  to look at 
Lunenburg ’s future. Carol suggested looking at some of the Municipal Building Design 
Committee meetings to see the focus of where that committee is going. Rami said Emily Enis ’s  
group is looking at zoning and the code but will add the Municipal Building Design also.  Tony 
suggested Rami look at that Committee ’s minutes which are very good  and will save his staff 
some time. He also suggested Rami talk to Michael Ray Jeffreys, who is the chair of that 
committee and Lou said he could facilitate  that.  
Motion:  Lou Franco                                                                                                          Second:  
Carol Ar chambault
To adjourn  at 6:45pm                              Roll Call Vote: Lou , Jerry, Joeci, Tim, Carol, Debbie,
and Evan – all aye
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk