===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 5/15/24- Master Plan Steering Committee Meeting 
Roll Call of Attendees- Chair: Joeci Gilcrest (Member-at-Large.), Vice-Chair: Tim Willsmer (Planning Board), Evan 
Watters (Finance Com.), Karin Menard (Parks), Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging), Kim Duffy (Green Communities), 
Pete Lincoln (Member-at-Large), Gerald Reid, Carol Archambault (School Committee), Dick Mailloux (Library 
Trustees), and Foteini Bouliari  (OverUnder). 
Public Comment- Debbie noted that the Committee charge states they should have a Clerk. They will need to vote 
for one at the next meeting. She also pointed out that there are minutes of past meetings posted on the town website 
but they were not approved at prior meetings. Joeci replied that Jane Ranley was brought on by Adam Burney at the 
beginning and she sends her the minutes, which Joeci posts. They will vote on minutes at the next meeting also.  
Karin noted that Pete and Kim are not on the email list. Also they need representatives from Conservation, ZBA and 
possibly Agricultural Commission.  
Plan Lunenburg Survey- Foteini went through the questions on Survey #3 and said the purpose of this survey is to 
gather as many ideas as possible. There are 8 goals listed, asking for strategies from the respondents. 
Goal #1 – Support a range of housing options for all ages and income levels. Kim asked to add links to the Overlay  
       Districts. 
Goal #2 – Protect farmland and support farmers. Joeci asked to add a link to Agriculture Preservation Restriction  
       Program. The Committee discussed adding an opt-in for email addresses to allow the Committee to ask for more 
       information.  
Goal #3 – Encourage development within existing Commercial areas with a focus on small businesses. It was noted  
       that most of the center of town is privately owned by Philip Arcidiacono, except for the footprint of the Town Hall.  
       Any development in the town center would have to go through him. Joeci added that some businesses are  
       limited by the By-Laws (ie. Tattoo shop). The town owns land but she was unaware of any empty buildings.  
Goal #4 – Build upon efforts to improve the natural open spaces and recreational activities. Foteini added that the  
       Town completed the Open Space & Recreation Plan. Evan noted that the Select Board owns land to provide 
       Public access to Lake Shirley. Dick added that Lake Whalom has public access but the Town Beach has very 
       limited parking options.  
Goal #5 – Support Community gathering spaces. The Committee discussed the property at 40 School Street which 
       was torn down. Plans to develop the space for recreation were turned down at Town Meeting. In years past,                                                                                                       
       there were soccer fields behind the old school- could possibly be land for large events. 
Goal #6 – Optimize use of Municipal Buildings and properties. The Town owns 10 municipal buildings and 100 land  
       parcels. The Committee discussed the Hybrid plan for reusing the Town Hall, Ritter Building and building a Town 
       Office annex.  The front of TC Passios would be saved but the wings demolished.  
Goal # 7 – Improve school facilities, funding and opportunities. Carol pointed out that all the schools are in need of   
       some repairs- especially the Turkey Hill School which needs remodeling. School funding is a major issue and  
       may mean some cuts and layoffs.  
Goal #8 – Foster a safe and resilient infrastructure. The DPW oversees the maintenance and management of  
       Infrastructure. The Committee discussed the desire to put sidewalks on the roads, along with bike lanes but 
       noted that the roads would become too narrow for cars and they are limited in what they can do on state roads 
       such as 2A and route 13.  
Foteini stated that at the end of the survey there will be demographic questions which they can compare to the actual 
demographics of the town. The Committee agreed to launch the new survey, which will include an opt-in to give an  
email address also.  
Update from OverUnder  - Foteini noted OverUnder has provided materials to advertise the 5/30 meeting.     
May 30th Plan Lunenburg Public Meeting  – will begin at 6pm at Smokestack Coffee Roasters. Foteini said the 
meeting will be more of a workshop and will engage participants with exercises for discussion. The new survey will 
be launched with participants either filling it out online or on paper.  Paper responses will be entered into the system 
that night. Their goal is to collect a long list of ideas and recommendations. Joeci asked if there is a draft plan yet and 
Foteini replied they will work on it after this meeting.  
===PAGE 2===
Committee Comments- It was noted that some members still need to be sworn in. The Committee discussed having 
a clerk and/or volunteer to take minutes. Evan suggested holding the next public meeting with a 2 day option – ie. 
Thursday night and a Sunday afternoon. Debbie suggested following up with committee members that have not 
attended, to see if someone else can attend instead.  
Next meeting – review minutes, clerk volunteer, recap of 5/30 meeting.  
      
 
Motion:  Pete L.                                                                                                                                  Second: Jerry R.              
To adjourn at 8:07pm                     Roll Call Vote: Joeci, Tim, Carol, Jeffry, Debbie, Pete, Evan, Dick, and Kim 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk  
 
 
 
 