
Minutes of 3/7/24- Master Plan Steering Committee Meeting
Roll Call of Attendees- Chair: Joeci Gilcrest (Member-at-Large.), Vice-Chair: Tim Willsmer (Planning Board), Evan Watters (Finance Com.), Karin Menard (Parks), Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging), Kim Duffy (Green Communities), Lou Franco (Select Board), Gerald Reid, Carol Archambault (School Committee), Dick Mailloux (Library Trustees), and Rami el Samahy (OverUnder).
Update from OverUnder- Rami reported that they collated the feedback from the February public meetings and closed Survey #2. They received 457 responses and anticipate a few more to come. Survey #3 will be released mid-late April and the next public meeting is scheduled for 5/30. They still want to reach out to renters and the Municipal Building Committee. Joeci will be helping to connect to farmers in Lunenburg and surrounding towns. Rami noted that receiving 457 responses was amazing and they have never had numbers that high. Lou asked if the responses were representative of the town demographics and Rami replied yes, except for the low response from renters. Kim asked if the committee could review the draft for the next survey and Rami said he would appreciate the feedback. He will plan to present a draft for the April meeting. The Committee noted that some questions were vague on the previous surveys and Rami replied that the next survey will be more targeted.  The Committee discussed having responses for Survey #3 for the Town Meeting and agreed instead to have surveys available at the meeting since attendance is anticipated to be high. Evan suggested approaching management at Arrive Lunenburg and Tri-Town apartment complexes regarding distributing surveys and/or putting up information. 
Upcoming Plan Phase Shifts – Rami noted that Phase 1 is complete and they are now in the Recommendations phase, which will go until the Fall. This phase consists of compiling a long list of possible policies and projects, along with getting feedback on the lists. The 3rd and final phase will be organizing and determining what can be done in the short term, as well as long term. Rami added that the existing conditions report put out in January looked at what has happened and they can do a forecasting list for going forward. 
Update on event from February 1st – Rami reported that the early session had 23 participants and there were 13 at the later session, which was similar to the total attendance at the 1st public meeting. They did 3 exercises – list of values, goals for town and brainstorming of ideas. The Committee discussed ideas for the next public meeting on 5/30 and Joeci suggested incorporating it into an outdoor event, that would be family-friendly. They discussed possible locations and whether to incorporate a food option. Carol suggested looking at using the area in front of the TC Passios school, with the option to use the gym if it is wet weather. The Committee will research options and permitting needed. Public Comment – Jen Duffy (684 Flat Hill Rd) – suggested considering the goals of the meeting in order to determine the best location, to make the meeting concise and to have a defined purpose. 
Discussion on Social Media Findings – Joeci noted that she put a question on surrounding towns Facebook pages asking if anyone moved from Lunenburg to surrounding towns and why did you move. Many responses stated affordable housing and Unitil. She said it was interesting how open people were to talk about it. Joeci suggested inviting people to attend future meetings and offer their input during Public Comment. 
Location of Town Display Updates/Discussion—Joeci talked to the Library Director who asked if the display could be multiuse, such as a table or be placed outside.  The Committee will discuss this at the next meeting. The display is a 4’ x 8’ aerial map. 
Committee Comment – Kim stated that she reviewed the 2002 Master Plan and created slides, which she could present at a future meeting. Rami added he has a spreadsheet of recommendations from that plan which could be incorporated. The Committee discussed reviewing the slides during a separate virtual meeting. They also agreed to have a table with QR codes at the May Town Meeting and make a presentation at the Fall Town Meeting. 
Public Comment—Pete Lincoln (46 Hemlock Dr.)- stated he is the Chair of the 300th Town Anniversary Committee and they are looking for large spaces to hold events for 2,000+ people. He is hoping that the Master Plan Committee will be able to assist in finding such a place in town. 

Motion: Joeci G.                                                                                                                               Second: Carol A.
To adjourn at 6:49pm.                                                                            Roll Call Vote was unanimous to adjourn.
Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk 










