===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF ASSESSORS CODE OF CONDUCT
All members of the Board of Assessors shall:
1. Be well informed concerning the local and state duties of a board/committee member 
whenever applicable. 
2. Remember that they are always representing the Town .
3. Accept their position as a means of unselfish public service, not to benefit personally, 
professionally or financially from their board/committee position. 
4. Treat all members of the board/committee with respect and dignity despite differences
of opinion. Knowing  that professional respect does not prevent honest differences of 
opinion but requires respect for  those differences.
5. Refrain from discrimination, bullying, abuse, harassment and public personal 
criticisms to anyone (including & not limited to residents, business owners, other Board 
members, Town Administrator, department heads, and employees) either in person, in 
writing, or on social media. 
6. Recognize that the chief function of local government  always  is to serve the best 
interests of all  the people.
7. Honor confidential information, seek no favor, and believe that personal enrichment or
profit secured by holding these positions is dishonest. 
8. Conduct themselves to  maintain public confidence in their local government and in 
their performance of the public trust. 
9. Conduct official business in such a manner as to give the clear bearing that they 
cannot be improperly influenced in  the performance of their official duties.
10.Unless specifically exempted (e.g., Executive Session), conduct the business of the 
public in a manner that promotes open and transparent government and maintains  full 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law (G.L. Chapter 30A, Sections  18-25).
ENFORCEMENT OF CODE OF CONDUCT
1. The Board shall enforce their Code of Conduct.
2. Any Board member violating the Code of Conduct may be subject to public censure 
by their Board. 
3. During a meeting, after an initial warning, a member who acts in an inappropriate 
manner, is unruly or disorderly may be removed from a meeting by a majority vote of the
remaining members.