Frequently Asked Questions  
Where can I find the athletic game schedules? 
 
Visit http://mwlma.org and click on Lunenburg High School or 
arbiterlive https://www.arbiterlive.com/School/13354  
 
Where do I register my student-athlete for sports? 
 
Athlete registration can be completed at https://lunenburg-ma.finalforms.com/  
  
When does the sports season begin? 
 Fall sports- 3rd week of August Football starts the Friday before, all other sports Thursday.  
 Winter Sports- Monday after Thanksgiving 
 Spring Sports- 3rd Monday in March 
How do I contact a coach? 
 
All of the Lunenburg coaches’ emails are located under the quick links under Athletic Department Contact 
Information or via the team sportsyou page 
 
Does son/daughter need an updated physical? 
 
Yes, a physical is good for 13 months to the date. i.e. If a physical was conducted on 4/15/14, that physical is good 
through 5/15/15. 
 
How much are tickets to home sporting events? 
 All games played at night (Varsity & JV) are $5.00 for adults and $3.00 for students and senior citizens.  
 Thanksgiving tickets are $10.00 for adults and $7.00 for students and seniors. 
 Basketball games are $5.00 for adults and $3.00 for students and senior citizens 
 Ice Hockey is $6.00 for adults and $4.00 for students. 
 Playoff tickets are subject to a price change due to MIAA requirements.  
Can my son/daughter play for more than one team during the season?  
1. At the high school, no. Only one sport per season is allowed. 
2. Students can participate in recreation, club teams, and other programs during the same season; however, 
a student-athlete cannot miss or leave a game or practice early to attend another sporting event. The high 
school team is the 1st priority. 
3. If your son or daughter does need to miss a practice please contact the Athletic Director well in advance 
so the school can apply for a waiver to allow the missing of an event or practice to occur.  
 
 
Is equipment provided for all sports? 
 
Equipment is provided for all sports except for boys and girls lacrosse, field hockey, and ice hockey. 
 Boy’s lacrosse-all protective gear and helmets are the responsibility of the player to acquire. 
 Ice Hockey- all equipment is the responsibility of the player to acquire and maintain 
 If a student does use their equipment they do so at their own risk. If a student wants to wear their 
baseball, softball, and football helmets/padding they must match the school colors and proof of 
certification is required for the equipment to be used. 
How much are user fees? 
For High School Sports Teams(This includes middle school students participating in High School Teams) Middle 
School and High School athletic fees are separate from one another and do not count towards the multi-family 
discount.  
 
Students Participating in High School Athletic Teams 
Per Season Breakdown: 
1st student=$250.00 
2nd student=$140.00 
3rd student=$85.00 
Total Cap per season=$475.00 
 
Students Participating in Middle School Athletics  
Per Season Breakdown: 
1st student=$200.00 
2nd student=$150.00 
 
 
 Unified Track =$100.00 
 Lunenbrug Boys Ice Hockey has assessed an additional fee via the Ice hockey booster club to cover Ice 
time rental fees. 
 The Lunenburg Girls Ice Hockey Cooperative team players will be assessed a bill after the season which is 
a cost per player assessment for being on the team, which each player is responsible to pay for by the end 
of the school year.  
 
How and when do I pay the user fees? 
 
The user fee payment needs to be made before the first day of practice. Any outstanding balance needs to be paid 
in full before the athlete can start the next season. 
Payments can be made online via https://lunenburg.revtrak.net/ or checks sent to the athletic department. 
 
Please make checks payable to the Town of Lunenburg and include the name of your child and sport on the 
memo line of the check.  
 
Can the user fee be waived? 
 Students that are on the free lunch program have the athletic fee waived . Students who qualify for the 
reduced lunch program pay a reduced fee. Payment plans can be developed in advance by the parent 
reaching out to the Athletic Director and Principal 
 Please contact the Athletic Director and Principal for extenuating circumstances. 
By paying the user fee does this mean my son/daughter will play?  
 
The fees go to offset athletic department expenses, a paid fee does not guarantee to play, but the coaches do their 
best to get everyone involved. 
 
Where can I find directions to away events? 
 
Directions can be found on http://mwlma.org under the school and sport or http://miaa.net under the school.  
 
How can I help out the athletic department? 
 
Join the Booster Club and volunteer your time, attend meetings, and support our fundraising efforts.  
 
Is my son/daughter required to do team fundraising, purchase team gear, and attend season workouts?  
 
No, all team fundraising, gear purchases, and off-season workouts are optional. 
 
Does my son/daughter have to ride the team bus home? 
 
Yes, the students are expected to leave and come back as a team when transportation is provided. In the rare 
event that this may not be possible, the coach needs to be notified in advance.  (due to COVID should you prefer 
your child does not ride the bus when provided please let the coach know in advance)  