===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes for Sewer Commission Meeting of August 26, 2014 
Attendees: Carl Luck, Dave MacDonald, Mike Nault, Butch B ilotta, Troy Daniels 
Meeting was opened by Carl Luck, at 7:02pm.  It was held  at the DPW as the Selectmen needed the Town Hall meeting room.  
 
SRF Project – Carl noted that we’d received a short update from Kevin,  that they are on schedule, and working on the applicat ion 
for SRF, that they have included the 768 West St. pro perty, now part of the plan.  When the resident of 76 8 West returns from 
vacation, he’ll provide the response form. Commission discuss ed that by adding the one parcel, it equates to 3 bett erments (4 
apts.). Dave asked about the manhole on West for fut ure expansion. Carl noted that it depends on the design . Commission 
discussed that since we had not heard from the other r esident on West, that he would have to pursue connect ion as a private 
extension, like anyone else on West.  It creates more of  an issue anyway, as other impacted residents would need  to be 
contacted. Dave stated that having the manhole on Wes t St. is most important if we want future expansion.   
 
I/I Project status – Carl stated that he and Barb have had a lot of discuss ion on the fining for these properties. We have 2 areas  – 
those we have not had access to and illegal connections.  We have not yet sent out the fines which will be effect ive 7/19/14. Troy 
provided his handout dated 8/25/14, entitled ‘Sewer Fines’,  for Commission review and discussion. It included fining for  lack of 
access as assuming an illegal sump pump exists. Butch asked about metering each account, but Carl thought that wou ld be too 
expensive. Discussion followed about the right of the Comm ission to cut off sewer service. Troy pointed out that , such as with 37 
Graham, we could justify the charge of $50/day for th e cost. Troy also pointed out that we should have info rmation about their right 
to a hearing on any notice, and the process.  He would  like us to ask Town Counsel whether we can make an assu mption when a 
resident will not allow building access that an illegal connectio n exists, and charge $500/mo., similar to laws supporting the 
assessors when a resident refuses access. His prefere nce is to get away from the $50/day. Troy referenced t hat it is a 
constitutional right to not have someone search your home  without a search warrant, and they are not always gr anted. Residents 
would just need to prove they don’t have an illegal conne ction. Carl stated that notification is key. Troy wants to  notify lien holders 
now, as they’d prefer to pay the bills then collect it fr om the residents since they do not want a blemish on the  title.  Carl noted he 
likes the idea of a concise process to follow. Dave asked  about doing up a form similar to a ticket, showing the lega l information, 
fines, etc. Troy asked how it would be served, whether it be police, a constable, etc.  Carl wants to just get  this project done and 
mailed, and work on the process going forward. Butch as ked about checking with counsel but Carl pointed out tha t we’d had both 
Weston & Sampson, and Town counsel review our policy. Troy  pointed out that suspected illegal connections pay more t han 
actual illegal connections.  Carl noted that that is only if they delay – they can solve it quickly and pay only $200 .  Carl proposed to 
proceed in the manner we have, but work in parallel to in stitute the process Troy put forward.  Dave suggested  Troy work with 
counsel. Commission commenced going through the list of out standing issues to determine course of action. 55 Graham with 
owners in California assured us that they do not have a  sump pump.   
Troy suggested that we send a letter, not certified, t hat we appreciate them being in contact, understand the  issue, but include that 
once an inspection occurs, if an illegal connection exists, that they will be fined from 7/19 to the date of correct ion, that they should 
call when they are back to set up an appointment.  With all the letters where we are fining, Troy wants the lien h older copied.  Barb 
stated she had just done up invoices, not letters. Commis sion discussed and agreed that they’d prefer a letter,  but that it includes 
fines.  It should state you have failed to reply, that w e’ve sent 2 letters, left 3 notices at the property, a nd include the fine of 
$50/day, noting that the lien holder is copied, and includ e a copy of the last letter. Carl continued on the list.   37 Graham was the 
next site. He talked with Karen Weller, who walked away f rom the house 3 years ago. She confirmed that they had  had it camera’d 
and confirmed of the break, that Roto Rooter did it, sh e’d be happy to let us in, and that they don’t know whe re break is . Carl 
talked to Jack and his belief is that the best solution fo r everyone is for us to fix the pipe, (instead of termina te the connection). 
Karen will give us permission to camera from the inside.  Discu ssion followed about whether the pipe was clay or PVC, t he 
distance of the pipe from house to street, and who has  the authority to authorize the work (whether it is the  Wellers or the bank). 
Troy noted there is danger for us to fix it with the liabilit y. We should find the lien holder and include them on the notice. Dave 
proposed that we just cut off the connection at the street.  Commission discussed this option and decided in fa vor of that option.  
That way there is no liability to the Town and the new own ers will have to repair the line. This is also a Board of He alth issue.  We 
would charge a reconnection charge for new owners, wh ich helps us recoup the cost of cutting the pipe.  Bar b to serve notice to 
Weller as the legal owner, that you are being disconnecte d, copy lien holder, with explanation and reference to co nversations. The 
bank may come forward and fix the pipe... Carl will talk to Jack about the change in plans.  We will provide 10 days ’ notice, and 
need to advise BOH that they are being disconnected.  They have 10 days to respond.  Carl will close the loop w ith Jack, checking 
if there is any issue the Commission is not aware of by te rminating this line, since it was his preference to repair the line.   
Commission continued down the list. Discussion followed on whe ther to fine those whose issues are resolved or not, a nd 
determined that they would not fine those who have reso lved issues, or have appointments for inspections set u p. Mike stated we 
should go after the people we have not heard from. Jac k will have to keep an eye on those accounts who have  redirected their 
sumps to make sure they don’t connect to the sewer aga in. We’ll give the owners of 55 Graham until the 30 
th to arrange for an 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
inspection, then we will fine .  Commission agreed to not send the letters certified, even to the banks, as the assumption is, if they 
are not sent back, that they are received.   We will se nd fines to the illegal connections that have no appointmen t.   
    
Grease Trap Non-compliance   –  Commission reviewed the list of non-compliant permittees and d iscussed sending letters out 
with the fines, referencing the prior letter sent.  Troy  was interested in our leverage on victualler’s licenses. Barb will send him the 
emails from last year.  Fines for $50 for non- compliance, t hen $25/day backdated to the start of the fiscal year  (7/1) were 
confirmed. Commission reviewed some of the establishments that  had not complied with report submission, like Sean Patrick ’s or 
Conrad’s, and why it is so difficult to get copies. Troy su ggested adding it to the regulations that the cleaning fir ms must submit 
copies to the Sewer Dept., as other towns do.  
 
ZBA Hearings – Barb  had 2 hearing notices from the ZBA – 1) September 10, 2014 – 790 Mass Ave . Commission confirmed 
that they are on the sewer line with 2 betterments, but  not yet connected. The Commissioners reviewed the plan re ceived. Troy 
doubts the septic could support the gas station. Hear ing is on 9/10 and Carl encouraged anyone that could to  plan to attend. 
2)  September 24, 2014 – Whalom Luxury Apts.  Dave confirmed that the Commission has not agreed to give them any 
reductions. Carl reviewed that they had offered a red uction in return for installing a grease interceptor which  they would maintain. 
Carl stated that Dick Heaton believed the developers pr icing to be flawed, and that it is economically feasible. Car l confirmed with 
Barb that they have not contacted the office with any  more information, nor has counsel contacted Barb for a ny information 
regarding Hollis Hills. Troy didn’t think an outside grease tr ap was feasible.  Carl has not heard anything further, so we won’t 
pursue that option. Dave noted that whatever is done should be uniformly done for all projects, relating to the Planning Board 
discussion on storm water.  Dave made the motion that our recommendation to the ZBA is to char ge Whalom Luxury 
Apartments the sewer fees that were in the regulations as of  the original application date of September 3, 2008, Troy 
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Dave added that they will try and make a case on the te levised hearing and that the 
Commission should be prepared.  
 
Sewer Commission Projects update – there were  no updates in addition to anything previously discussed.  
 
SWSS – Commission had the pump station reports for week ending 8 /9 and 8/16 and discussed the content, including 
discrepancies on Francis St with run times between pumps 1 and 2. It was determined we’d ask them in to our next me eting 9/9 to 
discuss the reports, SCADA, run times, tour of stations .  Barb noted that we’d received an estimate for the ma jor generator 
maintenance for $9250, but the Commission expects that to  be covered under the contract, now that both major and minor repairs 
are included as of 7/1/14.  Jack had made it clear at th e last meeting they attended that they needed to get t he work done.  Carl 
will verify with Jack and generator maintenance can be disc ussed on 9/9 as well. 
 
Minutes from the 8/5/14 Executive Session  had been sent to the Commission for review. Carl asked if there were any 
discussion. Everyone agreed to the minutes. Dave made the motion to accept the minutes, Troy seconded. Vote ta ken was 
unanimous.  Even though the Minutes of 8/12 were on the agenda, Barb had not had a chance to fin ish them.  
 
BUSINESS MANAGER REPORTS – Discussion on the  pump station generators was already covered. Barb had the invoices 
from Leominster for $43,364.73 and  Fitchburg $7524.47 for review. They had come in for the amounts that were expected and 
were approved. Carl asked again when he could get the  comparison of water in to water out. Barb will try and d o it. It is a manual 
process and should be done after a billing. It is hard be cause Leominster Water and Lunenburg water are on dif ferent schedules. 
Barb will be out on vacation from 8/29 returning 9/8, and  the next meeting is 9/9.  It was discussed to possibly s kip the meeting, 
but we want SWSS to come in, so we’ll keep the date.   There were no Commissioners Comments. Carl asked for a mot ion to 
adjourn. Troy made the motion to adjourn, Mike seconded. Vote taken was unani mous.  Meeting was adjourned at 9:10pm.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Barbara Lefebvre 
 
 