===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Sewer Commission 
MINUTES 
September 16, 2014 
DPW Building 
520 Chase Rd. Conference room 
Carl Luck, Dave MacDonald, Troy Daniels, Mike Nault, Butch Bilotta  
 
CALL TO ORDER : 7:00pm    
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  None  
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
7:00 pm SWSS– Debbie & Bruce Trumbull, Al Packard  (SWSS)  -Generator work was discussed,  and the estimate received for 
$9250 that didn’t match the per station quotes prov ided by Debbie at the meeting. Also discussed was t he issue of not receiving 
the invoice before the end of the fiscal year, and how this major work must be incorporated or prorate d with the current contract 
that includes the major service on generators.  Bru ce noted the issues getting pricing and contractors  in to do the work. The 
contract includes a major and a minor service on ge nerators. The work on this quote will be the major for this contract year. Al 
noted that there is more involved than just mainten ance to get Twin City up to speed, work occurring t his Friday, 9/19, and the 
quote doesn’t include Twin City costs.  Commission wants to get a better quote with detail to match to tal.  Carl made the motion  
to proceed based on a quote with better numbers.  T roy seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.  Pump stati on reports – 
Reports were discussed and that SWSS has meetings t wice daily, and they review the figures, but react to trends, due to the 
nature of the sewer business.  Also discussed was t ank levels, and the readings dependent on time of d ay, or how soon after 
pump start. A tour will help alleviate Commissioner ’s questions.  SCADA system - Scada is installed but there is no remote 
access. Discussion of carrier, whether it would be Comcast or Verizon and Al will contact Verizon.   A l noted they are still waiting 
on the probe  for West St.  
 
7:30 pm Private Extension request- 42 Highland St e xtension  Dan Proctor explained the project to connect 42 Hig hland to 
the manhole on Oak Ave.  Neither 17 or 20 Highland want to participate at this time. It will be an E-o ne system. Carl noted that if 
those homes participated, that they would pay 50% o f the privilege fee.  Carl asked if 42 Highland was  aware that they must pay 
50% now, but if future sewer requires a new line go es in later, he may have to pay the full betterment .  The idea of putting a line 
in to handle future connections was discussed.  Dan  plans to start the work October 1 
st .  We will need the covenant, bonds, 
warranty.  Discussed the type of bond, and the Town ’s responsibility, and whether the bond is between the contractor and 
homeowner or the Town.  We will need the schedule o f performance, and all work should be complete befo re snow. Policy 
should require stubs for 17 and 20 Highland for fut ure connections.  It was noted that the Town’s stak e is only from the manhole 
to the property line and the amount that the Town s hould require for their portion of the bond was dis cussed, and Jack’s 
involvement to determine that amount. The Commissio n will require a copy of the contract and will leav e it to the DPW director to 
determine the town portion. Troy’s position is that  it should be for the cost of the contract. Dave made the motion to request 
Dan Proctor obtain a bond for the amount of work on  town-owned property and approved by Jack Rodriquen z.  Mike 
seconded. Vote taken was 4 for, 1 against. Motion p assed.  
 
8:00pm  909 Mass Ave. -Change of use DJ Layhe & Ernest Beland for Harley House  Décor.  Change of Use application was 
received 9/15.  There is a grease trap in the kitch en, but DOR has claimed all equipment, and kitchen is not used. There is no 
external interceptor that the Commission is aware o f. Mr. Beland said he could disconnect and remove s ink. Suggestion was 
made that he should have a plumber do it, and have documentation that it was done. Dave made the motion to accept the 
change of use, providing the Commission gets notice  from the plumber that it has been disconnected.   Mike seconded. 
Vote taken was unanimous.    
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project -Layout review Carl reviewed the meeting with Kevin Olson, Jack, B arb and himself on 
9/11. The entire project will be low pressure, whic h gives the project a better shot at one betterment .  Pumps will add $5k to 
homeowners’ cost. We would like to have a workshop with Wright Pierce before the next meeting on 9/30,  starting at 6pm. 
Project is on schedule for submittal of the applica tion 10/15. Communication to residents discussed. B etterment on cost of 
project may be less without cost of pump. Carl stat ed cost to connect should be close to $20k.  
Easements in Lakeview area were discussed. Also dis cussed with Wright Pierce was the possibility of dr opping a 2 
nd  line in the 
trench for future expansion.  Wright Pierce has to go before Conservation Commission on 11/1. Carl may  attend.  Soil boring 
would be occurring from 9/15 through 9/17. Legal co unsel was involved to supply temporary access agree ments to allow soil 
borings on private right-of-ways. Agreements were s igned by Carl on the 5 properties to allow soil bor ings on right of ways 9/16 
because of the time constraint, but counsel advised  we have a formal vote on record that the Chairman is granted  signatory 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
authorization for Temporary Access Agreement in fut ure.  Troy made the motion to allow Chairman to sign Temp orary 
Access Agreements. Dave seconded. Vote taken was un animous.    
 
I/I Project status – Fine Assessment follow-up – Letters were sent out 8/28/14 with fines.  55 Graha m with California owner 
has been inspected, and is all set. 18 The Clearing  was inspected 9/2 and line re-directed, but fine s till applies. 37 Graham was 
inspected, owner agreed to the content of the lette r sent 8/28 that they have until 9/28 to repair the  line and if not done, the Town 
will cap off the sewer at the property line.      
 
Sewer Rate Relief Fund FY15-  FYI only, Fund is applicable only if projects are done without SRF funding and comes to the 
Town as a grant, not a low-interest loan.   
 
September ZBA Hearings - September 24, 2014 – Whalo m Luxury Apts. Carl had submitted a memo on behalf of the 
Commission and had had a conversation with Dick Hea ton. They may have a work session after the next me eting to discuss 
sewer fees. Dick stated that the ZBA believes that the application date we should be using is the date  the application was 
complete.  Impact on Hollis Hills case was discusse d briefly, noting that counsel submitted an appeal to the decision.  
Commission discussed whether Lorden had ever signed  something agreeing to the fees. Barb to check.  We  need to compile a 
chronology of events. Members discussed Dick Heaton ’s definition of a workshop.  Carl wants to go into  it with a definite stance 
on the fees due, but that ultimately it is up to th e ZBA. September 10, 2014 – 790 Mass Ave . Hearing was to decide whether 
applicant needed a special permit or not, so now it  will go to Planning Board for design review.  
 
 
Sewer Commission Projects update-I/I reduction proj ect - Troy had questions on the Weston & Sampson I/I rep ort from 
2011. Carl suggested he check with Jack.  Troy note d that we still have the other half of the I/I proj ect to do and need an updated 
proposal from Pat.  Dave noted we should have a dis cussion to pinpoint problems in Whalom on issues su ch as the white liquid 
and come up with a strategy.  Privately Funded Extension Policy update – After reviewing bylaw and regulations, Troy 
believes we are well set, just need processes defin ed, such as covenants and warranty. Only other issu e is whether to allow 
private extension with individuals or with the town . Another concern is defining the start and stop da tes from the DPW, and that it 
should be part of the application process to includ e the schedule. Dave added that we need to have a b ond to specify when and 
where and define what is a breach.   Lancaster Ave. opened the door so the public knows that private extensions are possible.  
 
Carl stopped the meeting because of the hour and as ked Barb for any pressing issues that could not wai t until the next meeting. 
Barb quickly reviewed the remaining items .  FY16 Capital Plan will be discussed at the next meeting. Submittal is  not due until 
10/17. Regarding the Minutes of 8/26, Troy stated that he’d reviewed. Carl asked if every one else had. It was agreed that we 
were prepared to vote on acceptance.  Troy made the motion to accept the minutes of 8/26 /14, Dave seconded. Vote taken 
was unanimous.  We’d already reviewed the  SWSS pump station reports .  As for the Planning Board  joint meeting notice on  
Economic Development Element, the meeting  is not until 10/20. We can discuss at the next meet ing. Barb had the YTD FY15 
budget and will send to the Commissioners via email for re view.  Barb had invoices  which the Commission can review at the 
meeting on September 30. 
 
Carl asked for a motion  to adjourn. Troy made the motion, Mike seco nded.  Meeting was adjourned at 9:57pm  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE -  September 30, 2014 – Town Hall – Workshop 6pm SRF p roject with Wright Pierce, 
Regular meeting 7pm 
 
COMMISSIONERS COMMENTS –   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  8:35 pm.  
 
Visitors: Debbie & BruceTrumbull, Al Packard (SWSS); Dan Proc tor, DJ Layhe & Ernest E Beland Jr(Harley House Déc or)  
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Barbara Lefebvre, Business Manager for the Sewer Commission 
 
 