===PAGE 1===
CL, DM, MN, TD, BB 
 
 
Minutes of 3/3/15 Sewer Commission meeting 
- at the DPW conference room 520 Chase Rd.  
Attendees: Chair, Carl Luck, Vice-Chair, Dave MacDo nald; Members, Mike Nault, Troy Daniels. Butch Bilot ta, 
Business Manager, Barb Lefebvre.  
 
Carl opened the meeting at 7:03pm, introducing Pat Cotton from Weston & Sampson.  Pat provided a handout, 
and advised of the plan to plot all the manholes  from the data Jimmy Breault already had on his GPS , apply a 
numbering system and send to Cartographics to add a nother layer to the town maps and sewer system.  Thi s 
would cost about $1000.  Carl asked if he could sen d us an email with that cost and the Commission can  vote 
on it at their next meeting.  Pat proposed that aft er that had been completed, Weston & Sampson could do 
town-wide manhole inspections.  Pat estimated that for 350 manholes the project would run around $25,0 00 
and would include recommendations for manhole rehab ilitation. Pat noted that Lunenburg’s covers are la rger 
than others but didn’t recommend making any changes  and staying consistent across town. As far as what  else 
could be done to reduce I/I, Pat noted from the pri or report that infiltration is not the problem, mor e inflow. Dave 
inquired about temporary meters in the Whalom area,  especially in Graham St..  Troy brought up the know n 
issue at 37 Graham with the broken pipe and asked P at how much I/I that could be contributing. Pat sai d it 
depends on where the pipe is broken and how deep. Tr oy wanted to know if the repair should be done befo re or 
after the I/I work. Pat suggested another alternati ve for capping the line by mentioning that contract ors, such as 
NEPCO, can come in and seal the pipe using a bladde r. Carl asked if the bladder can be removed easily once 
the pipe is repaired. Troy asked if it would be more  than $1000 and Pat thought so, but the road would not have 
to be dug up. He thinks it is deep there. Pat will get the Commission a quote and they can compare to the cost of 
having a contractor dig.  It still may be cheaper a nd we don’t need to repair the street. Dave asked a bout 
installing temporary meters to monitor flow on Grah am St. Carl reminded Pat that he had suggested usin g the 
Leominster Rd. pump station to determine flow. Pat would recommend running a drawdown test to check 
accuracy of flows. Pat said a simple drawdown would  work without having to install a temporary meter a nd you 
can have the subcontractor in charge of the station s do that. We can ask SWSS to do it, or have Weston  & 
Sampson come do it with SWSS there to watch for fut ure investigations. Troy asked if that would be his 
recommendation over putting in temporary meters. Pa t wouldn’t recommend putting meters in, it is very 
expensive and estimated it to be around $8000 for 1 0 weeks. Dave didn’t think it was that expensive. P at will 
check but added that they already did that analysis . Troy added that we need to consider what the Commi ssion 
would do with the data. Pat said we could study Gra ham this spring during high groundwater, study the 
manholes and TV all the lines. Dave said there is a situation going on on Graham St. and still getting dirt at the 
flow meter. He still thinks someone hooked up storm  drains to the sewer. Pat said there was no smoke c oming 
out the storm drains when they did the smoke testin g. Commission discussed how a resident might have g otten 
around being found out during smoke testing. Pat ad ded that they looked at each residence carefully. D ave still 
wants to study storm drains in that area. Pat revie wed the process of studying storm drains when smoke  is 
detected using dye tests but none was seen in that area. Storm drain systems are significantly over-si zed. Is 
there a flooding problem during high rain periods b ecause of a drain system backing up? Dave is just n ot 
convinced that the dirt at Graham St. meter is not just 37 Graham and would like to send a camera up t he storm 
drain. Pat stated that the Commission would be bett er served by camera-ing the sewer line during high ground 
water, to find a service connection that doesn’t ma tch up with a house. Carl agreed that it is a good thought and 
that he is glad there is an technique to getting th e broken pipe capped off since we do know we have d irt coming 
in and some of it could be from that.  They can then  look at the flow differences between the pump stat ion and 
flow meter. Butch asked Pat for a quote.  Carl aske d to move on with the agenda. Pat stated that for L eominster 
Rd. we’re on target for early April so he’ll be con tacting Barb to get the letters out. He’ll email th e package out for 
distribution to have the Commission look at it and comment. The only change from last time is that we’l l add a 
date to the notices. Dave stated that we’re still l ooking to get a 98% signoff rate.  Pat noted that i n the 
agreement that they’ll do their best to get to 80% but the Commission knows what it takes to get more.   Pat 
asked if we wanted to get a proposal to do the manh ole inspections for this spring? Carl noted that it  depends on 
the budget and if we have the money this year or if  we have to wait for next year. We do plan to do I/ I work next 
year. Pat would recommend to study area directly up stream from the Graham St. meter and when we have t he 
crew come in to do the manhole inspections to TV all  those pipes. Carl asked Pat to include that in the  quote as 
an option. To close out the metering question, would  W&S do the monitoring of the flow for us?  Pat sai d our 
subcontractors provide the run times daily and all W&S would need is relatively accurate flow rate for  each 
===PAGE 2===
CL, DM, MN, TD, BB 
 
pump. For the ten week period, we only need to do th e drawdown just once. Carl thought SWSS could calcu late 
the flow rate. Pat agreed that they could do a draw  down, get an average and they could run a volume c ount to 
get the gpd. Carl confirmed with Mike that we could  go to SWSS to do this? Pat offered that someone fr om W&S 
could come out with SWSS to they could give them ac cess. Pat added that they just need to have 2 peopl e for a 
few hours– one to take the measurements, and the ot her to time it, turning the pump on. Carl confirmed  that we’ll 
talk to SWSS about doing it and see if they are com fortable doing that If not, we’ll have W&S train SW SS. Pat 
has some things to look into and will get back to u s.  
 
Current Business- Pleasantview Ave sewer extension request – Carl introduced Sue Bunish who joined the 
meeting. Letters went out to 14 residences to deter mine interest, including 1 to Lorden. Current maps have him 
with a cul-de-sac and 3 lots but subsequent plan mo dification shows they no longer exist. Another prop erty with 
frontage on Ramgren but more than 50’ on Pleasantvi ew was also sent letter for interest although he wo uldn’t be 
counted in the 2/3rds or no. The third questionable  parcel is the lot at the end of Pleasantview who m ay not want 
sewer. Commission discussed stopping extension part  way.  Barb read from Betterment bylaw: “Prior to t he 
initiation of a sewer project in any Sewer Service Zone as identified on the Sewer Service Area Map, a nd prior to 
submitting an appropriation request to the Town, the  Sewer Commission shall survey the landowners in sa id 
Sewer Service Area to determine whether a minimum o f 2/3 of all affected owners support the installati on of 
sewer service.”  Dave said he could go and speak to  those who hadn’t responded or responded as a ‘no’.   Sue 
made a point for the home in foreclosure that the b ank may be interested in the improvement. Sue noted  that it is 
listed by Foster Healy who is always there, keeping  up with maintenance. Carl thought that was a possi bility and 
that we should talk with the realtor.  Dave will ta lk with Brogna and Sue with the realtor. Sue asked if Jack had 
any discussion with Leominster about the water situ ation. Carl said Kerry was going to follow up with Jack. Sue 
noted that she just doesn’t want to get all the way  to Town Meeting and be shut down because of the iss ues with 
the water line.  Per Carl, Kerry would like to roll  all this together.  Jack seemed to believe that we  could do the 
work independent of the water issue and it shouldn’ t have to hold up the sewer. The road is another iss ue. Dave 
pointed out we need to do one thing at a time and g et the people to approve, then put pressure on Leom inster. 
Carl said it is just a formality to get Leominster’ s to say no again then Lunenburg can take some acti on. Troy 
asked if we have a placeholder on the warrant which  Barb said we did and that we’ll address the warran t articles 
at next week’s meeting. Dave asked Barb to email hi m the paperwork on those that haven’t responded yet  and 
thought the bank is the best way to go. Butch said there is a lot of red tape with a bank. Carl summed  it up 
saying that we all had some actions to make this ha ppen. Sue left the meeting, thanking the Commission  for all 
their work.  Pratt/Lakeview Betterment Project  - Easements – Carl noted we are down to the one coming in 
and the one with the Town. Dave noted that Brogna wa nts to sell the property. On the Bid process, Carl asked 
for any last inputs before going out to bid and tha t Kerry said it is our authorization. Dave asked th at the 
engineer’s questions were answered. Barb noted that  the email of potential bid dates from Wright Pierc e has 
everything on it, the room at Town Hall confirmed, and Jack’s request for a pre-bid meeting has been a dded. 
Dave recommends that someone from the Commission at tends the pre-bid meeting. Carl asked for a motion to 
release the bid. Butch made the motion, Troy seconded. Vote taken was  unanimous.   Barb wanted to go 
back to the Easements for a moment to verify that n ext week, providing we have Brogna’s paperwork, it will be 
on the agenda for the Sewer Commission to vote to a ccept the Easements and sign all the documents. Als o we 
will need to vote to authorize counsel to commence the eminent domain process on the ‘Town property’, called 
that because is it actually ‘owner unknown’ even af ter counsel’s title search. Dave asked why the Boar d of 
Selectmen can’t just sign off on it but Barb noted that that is because we don’t own it and Troy added  ‘nor do we 
want to’. Carl said that that is fine, just add to the agenda for the meeting. Sewer Homeowner Insurance Plan - 
Carl said this item is on the agenda per his reques t. He had seen an editorial in the Sentinel by one of the 
councilors in Fitchburg reporting on the success of  a program. A company sells insurance to homeowners  to 
cover the sewer & water lines from the town to the house.  Dave asked doesn’t’ homeowners’ insurance c over 
that? Per Carl, no – that was his first question al so. Butch stated that his cousin in Leominster did this with some 
success. Carl said that Leominster doesn’t official ly sponsor it.  Editorial claimed that it saves the  homeowners’ 
money.  Carl handed out sample pamphlets that were sent to him. For sewer it costs about $80-90 per ye ar. By 
the town helping with the program, they can get 8% of the income returned to them or pass it on to the  
homeowners. He would recommend we pass the saving t o the homeowners. Troy would want to see a packet of  
information and check out other companies to see ho w they compare before recommending one company. Car l 
said we can also talk to Fitchburg and provided some  of the endorsements from Westfield and Leominster.  We 
===PAGE 3===
CL, DM, MN, TD, BB 
 
would not be endorsing, just informing. Also, Carl had put in a call to Dave Rodgers to see if the Wat er 
department would be interested. It was noted that t he  Town Caucus is March 16 at 7pm. Carl asked for 
discussion and advised that neither Dave nor Butch are planning to run. Dave noted that the Commission  has 
done good work, accomplished good community relatio ns and other people respect this board. They’ve gott en a 
lot accomplished and that it would be good if the w hole system worked like that. He added that ‘what’s  good for 
the Town’ is what it should all be about and noted t hat it has been a joy working with everyone. Troy wi ll not be 
in Town for the caucus. Carl asked for everyone to c ome up with ideas for people who may be interested.   
  
Minutes – Barb provided the minutes for 2/3 and revised minut es of 1/13 & 2/10. Carl asked for  a motion to 
approve the minutes as corrected of 1/13. Dave made the motion, Troy seconded. Vote taken was 
unanimous. Carl asked for  a motion to approve the minutes of 2/3. Dave made the motion to approve the 
minutes, Troy seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.  For the minutes of 2/10 , Troy noted a change in the 
SRF section. Dave made the motion to accept the minutes with the amendment. Troy seconded.  Vote take 
was unanimous.  
    
Carl reviewed the activity with the Lien subordination request for 68 Elm St. Troy stated that he would never 
support a subordination of a town lien to any lende r or mortgage company.  Carl noted that the request  was 
driven by hardship and the HARP program. Counsel wa s contacted and advised that no subordination shoul d 
occur. Lender withdrew request. Carl noted that the  Fincom meeting is next week. Carl is still working  through 
the betterment piece of the budget and is working w ith Karen B. Brief discussion of the project monies  and 
SCADA.   
 
Carl asked if there was anything more and asked for  a motion to adjourn.  Troy made the motion, Dave 
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous and the meeting was adjourned at 8 :50pm.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Barbara Lefebvre    
 
 
 
 
 