===PAGE 1===
    
 SEWER COMMISSION 
April 28, 2020 
4:00pm Regular Meeting – held Remotely via Zoom   
AGENDA  
   
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded. 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the 
virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the 
public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, 
G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be recorded and will 
be able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please used thelink below to join the public 
meeting webinar: https://zoom.us/j/96295841721 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-
4499 and enter Webinar ID: 962 9584 1721#  If you have not registered with Zoom, you will be asked for 
your name and an email address.  NOTE: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked.  
Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may 
use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS   
 
RFP finalization –Pump Station Operation & Maintenance, Generator Maintenance 
 
SWSS Contract Termination – next steps 
 
FY21 Budget finalization and approval- discussion, approval, FinCom presentation 
 
1170 Mass Ave Betterment document status 
 
FY20 Invoices for participation in Irrigation Meter Policy –billing issues, send via USPS 
 
Irrigation Meter changeover implementation date - discussion   
 
Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) 3rd Party Review – status, I/I Comparison 
 
Minutes for approval –4/14  
  
Business Manager report – Invoices, Leominster billing, Grease Trap logs, Q4 billing  
 
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings 
 
Public Comment  
 
Adjournment  
 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES  
April 30, 2020 FinCom Budget Presentation, Remote, time to be determined 
May 12, 2020 Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice, time to be determined 