===PAGE 1===
SEWER COMMISSION 
February 9, 2021 
5:00pm Regular Meeting via Zoom  
AGENDA   
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting will be recorded 
and can be found on Lunenburg Access channel on YouTube within 48 hours of the meeting. 
      
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance from the 
Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and 
steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities closed to the public and open by 
appointment only.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c.30A,§ 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.   
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:          
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85125191792 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and 
enter Webinar ID #:  851 2519 1792.  If you have not registered with Zoom, you will be asked for your name and 
an email address. NOTE: No participant ID is.  needed, just press # when asked.  Telephone users may dial *9 to 
request to speak after joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to 
speak.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS   
 
 
FY22 Budget –review and approval, FinCom    
 
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance updates – updates to Lunenburg Sewer Regs, extension request 
 
Maintenance Plan discussion 
 
Annual report submission for FY20– review and approval 
 
Review of Access to Counsel Policy –discussion  
 
Minutes –1/26 review and approval  
    
Business Manager report – Invoices, Grease trap logs 
 
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings 
 
Public Comment  
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES   
February 9, 2021 5pm Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice  
February 23, 2021 5pm Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice   
 
 
Adjournment  
 
