===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 11/13/23 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)  
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk- Mike Nault, Members: Dave MacDonald and 
Mike Mackin, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley  
John opened the meeting at 6:00pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance.  
PUBLIC COMMENT- Mike M. and Dave reminded all that 11/14 is the Special Town Meeting and urged all to come 
to vote.   
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none  
CURRENT BUSINESS –   
Q2 Fy24 Commitment- Paula asked to table this until she can get the billing issue resolved and talk to the town 
accountant.  
Grease Trap Issue – Extension Request- 1 Main St. – Paula stated she received a request from Mr. Arcidiacono 
for an extension of the deadline to submit the grease trap report.  He had contacted Dillis & Roy but they do not have 
the ability to get information on the existing trap and sizing. He did find a plumbing engineer (Mr. Castori) who will 
take on the work but cannot start until mid-December. Mr. Arcidiacono will deliver a report by mid-January. The 
Commission discussed and agreed to give the extension. 
Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                Second: Dave M.  
To give the extension requested by the applicant.     
Discussion: Paula suggested adding a deadline of January 3rd.   
Mike M. amended motion to: To give the extension requested by the applicant to 1/3/24.    
Dave asked Paula if the convenience store, which used to be a meat market, had a grease trap. Paula replied not to 
her knowledge but will look into it. There is a 3 bay sink and it would require a grease trap.   
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Brett-aye, Mike M.-aye, Mike N.-aye, and John-aye.     
  
Minutes of 10/10/23-  
Motion: Dave M.                                                                                                                                 Second: Brett R.  
To approve the minutes of 10/10/23.    
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Brett-aye, Mike M.-aye, Mike N.-aye, and John-aye.     
  
Leominster Intermunicipal Agreement Negotiations- Dave reported they had a meeting which was recorded and 
Bill has the notes. Paula noted she retyped the IMA, to include edits proposed by Leominster and the 
subcommittee.  Dave stated they asked for a 25-year contract and requested an additional 300K in flows to 
Leominster over the next 25 years to Leominster. Additionally, Lunenburg is paying the same rate as Leominster 
residents, so they are requesting some help with maintenance of the lines. Paula stated there is an emergency 
section and she added that Leominster will provide emergency service on an agreed upon rate. Dave said if 
Leominster agrees, they can negotiate the hours, etc. Paula noted Jake was looking for some revised wording for the 
changes and asked Dave to put something together. She asked if they are looking for routine service, such as jetting, 
vacuuming and cameraing. Bill suggested asking for so many hours per year. Paula said she and Bill will come up 
with some language and give it to the subcommittee. Dave added it should be then reviewed through the board prior 
to sending to Leominster. Mike M. asked about the impact on the ratepayers. Paula noted she sent out a worksheet 
for that and they will need to increase the rates due to increases from Leominster and Fitchburg. They will need to 
discuss this at the 11/28 meeting. Dave noted they have $100K coming for sewer covers and will see if Leominster 
will help out. Also there may be more ARPA money coming.   
Business Manager Report – Update on System Maintenance & Upgrades- Paula reported they met today with 
Robert Lilly (CTE technician). They will need to do wet well cleaning on 5 stations and will need to do an entry on 
Dana, Mass 1 and Leominster.  Paula will get a quote for that work. The Control Panels for 2 stations have been 
ordered and the cranes were installed at 3 stations. Power Products is the company doing the inspection on the 
generators. Paula talked to Robert and Wade about Capital Planning for the next fiscal year. She asked Robert to 
give her a priority list of things they need. Paula noted the pump and check valve at Leominster Rd. was clogged with 
rags and the Dana check valve was also clogged with rags. She asked Robert to look at putting a macerator before 
the pumps, as a viable option. John noted he received an email from Dillis & Roy about those units and that they can 
===PAGE 2===
be pretty expensive, but if 2 pumps shut down it would be very expensive. Regarding 1 Main St., Paula reported she 
received a letter from an attorney for the property that was flooded. She and Bill are working on the report for the 
insurance company. Paula noted that The Re-Boot restaurant has not submitted the pumping invoices and the 
annual permit application or paid any bills since they connected. The bill is in excess of $15K, but the business 
manager has asked to meet with her about a plan.  John asked if they need to rent a pumping truck for cleaning each 
wet well and Paula replied yes but she needs to find out the cost and how many days it will take to do them.   
Enterprise Fund FY23 Final Report- Paula reported FY23 is finally closed. They brought in an additional 
$48,734.05 more due to final Betterment payments, but Revenue was down $61,180.36. They were not able to do all 
the work but there was a final surplus of $190,730.19. The Retained Earnings was certified as $2,124,854. Dave 
noted that was why they budgeted a deficit because they didn’t have all the monies in. He thanked Paula for the 
numbers.  
Update on Software System Conversion- Paula reported the conversion has been a nightmare. Dan (IT) was able 
to resolve the bill printing issue. When she did the training with Myleen, she noticed some numbers were off. She put 
together a spreadsheet of the Q2 bills and all were correct. The problem is on some bills the prior balance and 
amount paid are incorrect, with the amount due correct except for a few. She has spent 90 hours on this problem. 
Right now 74 accounts are incorrect and 5 bills show the incorrect amount due. She has reached out to Tyler Tech, 
Suzor and the Town Manager. Tyler Tech has not been able to determine the reason. Fitchburg is still having issues 
with Munis and she knows 1 town is having issues with outstanding balances being incorrect. Paula has created a 
word document corrected bill to send with a letter. She has been going through every individual bill to make sure it is 
correct, which is very time-consuming. Dave asked who was involved and Paula replied Tyler Tech created Munis. 
Suzor is the IT company hired by the town to oversee the computer system. Paula noted when she puts in a ticket to 
Suzor IT, it is usually Dan who gets back. Casey is the Suzor representative and Paula showed her the severity of 
the issue. Paula has sent numerous emails to the Town Manager about the problems. Dave asked about the chain of 
command. Paula said she goes to Suzor first but they don’t respond. Dave asked if Tyler Tech has helped her. Paula 
stated the bills went out on 11/2 and she found issues on 11/6. She went through the bills and put a ticket in to Tyler 
Tech on 11/6 but could not connect with them until 11/10. She also talked to Casey (Suzor) on the 10th.  Dave stated 
this was outrageous that Paula has spent 90 hours of her time and they are still sitting with bad bills. John said 
hopefully the Town Manager understands the seriousness of this and the Town Manager needs to make Tyler Tech 
understand this needs to be a top priority. Bill said the Town Manager is aware of the issue and he will talk to her 
tomorrow. Paula noted she received over-due notices from Verizon and Next Amp, for bills already submitted for 
payment. She is spending all her time correcting bills and has not been able to check payments in Munis. Another 
issue is they left the Boston address off the bills so payments are going to the sewer office and she has to bring them 
to the tax collector. They also left off the interest rate and minimum charge on the bills. In addition, some elderly 
users are saying the type is too small, but Munis will not let her increase it. The Commission discussed the issue and 
agreed it is a very serious situation, which is now in limbo. John noted this Munis change has not been a smooth 
process and it has become overwhelming for Paula. Paula noted that Munis was also down today for a period of 
time. Mike M. asked why they did the conversion and Paula said Tyler would no longer support the older version of 
Munis. Brett asked if the Town Manager is the only one with the clout to get this fixed and Paula replied the Town 
Manager asked for it to be escalated with service manager, Peggy Whitten, but she has not heard from her. Dave 
suggested sending a letter to the Town Manager and Select Board, saying that they need to deal with this. John said 
he will meet with Paula to do timeline on the issue and send an email to Heather and Select Board. Dave suggested 
John meet with Heather.   
Sewer Business Manager Proposed Job Description- Paula reported Heather came to the DPW to talk to the 
employees.  She also talked to Julie (HR) about the issue of not being able to have a dialogue with the Personnel 
Board. They have requested a new job description be written. Julie and Bill will work it and present it to Personnel. 
Bill has sent the description to Julie and will follow up with her. John said it is an on-going process and Paula added 
they hope to get it out for the Town Meeting next year. Dave noted it takes time and they should let everyone know 
they are working on it.  
Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager position- Paula reported they found a good candidate- Camille Farrar. 
She previously worked in Shirley in the sewer department and she will be a great employee. She will start 11/28.  
===PAGE 3===
Maintenance program 2020 – Dave asked to discuss the Maintenance Plan in January. Paula will be working with 
Bill on FY25 budget to make sure they fund Capital Expenditures. Bill is working on getting 3 miles of jetting done per 
year. Robert Lilly (CTE) has turned out to be a great asset and is really interested in reducing I/I. Robert told them he 
is seeing heavy I/I at West St. and Mass 3. On West St, there is a dip in the road so water collects over the wet well 
and the tank cover needs to be replaced.  Paula noted she ordered the meter but they have not received it, so she 
will follow up on it. Dave asked to add it to the January agenda. Paula said they planned on spending $100K / year 
for Capital Expenditures. Robert said some of the pumps are getting tired and will need to be replaced. He will put 
together a wish list, with priorities. Paula suggested putting it on the agenda of the first meeting in January.  
PUBLIC COMMENT –   
John asked the Commissioners if they wanted to cancel the meeting on 12/26 and all were in favor. Paula noted at 
the Special Town Meeting the sewer articles will be part of the consent calendar and will not be brought up 
individually unless the calendar is not passed.   
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:  
November 14, 2023 @ 6pm – Special Town Meeting  
November 28, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation   
December 12, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
  
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                             Second: Mike M.  
To adjourn at 7:05pm               Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye, Mike M.-aye, Mike N.-aye, and John-aye.     
  
  
Respectfully submitted,  
  
Jane L. Ranley  
Minutes Clerk  
 