===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 8/29/2023 Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)  
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Mackin and Mike Nault, DPW 
Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Absent: Dave MacDonald 
Guests: Kevin Olsen & Matthew Corbin (Wright Pierce) 
John opened the meeting at 6:01pm and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT and ANNOUNCEMENTS –none 
ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD - tabled to when all members are present. 
APPOINTMENTS – Wright Pierce – Kick off Discussion for a review for possible redirection of flow from Fitchburg to 
Leominster- Kevin Olsen noted they had done an evaluation for the town in 2012 and it culminated in a memo. The 
Commission has asked Wright Pierce to revisit the flows and update costs. He stated there have been many 
changes, extensions added and the Pandemic.  They will rely on the CWMP (Comprehensive Wastewater 
Management Plan) and revisit how they would propose rerouting the flows to Leominster. They will also update the 
layouts and the costs. Matt asked Paula for flow data from the 3 meters for 2022 and 2023, information on 
development in last 11 years and rates charged by Leominster and Fitchburg, as well as to the customers. Paula said 
they are now negotiating the IMA with Leominster which may increase the Leominster rate. The Commission will 
discuss a possible rate increase due to Fitchburg going up 7% and Leominster is proposing to go up substantially. 
John noted the flow to Leominster increased by 50% in 2021 and 2022, compared to 2020. They assume it was due 
to Covid and people being  home. Fitchburg also increased 24-27%.  Also, the maintenance person said the 2 small 
Mass Ave. stations are running at capacity. Kevin agreed many communities saw increases in 2021 & 2022 and the 
flow will probably not drop back down due to the hybrid work situation. John added it has also been a very wet year. 
Matt noted they could get a tech memo for them in 4-6 weeks and meet again. Kevin said if they want to reroute, it is 
good they are renegotiating the IMA and rate increases. Bill added it is a good plan going forward. Paula will send 
data from 2020 to 2023 and asked if they could get some comments in regard to the proposed Pond View project. 
Kevin said they can consider where the flow would go and Paula said they would want to know the capacity at each 
existing pump station. Kevin said they can look at that.   
CURRENT BUSINESS -  
Minutes of 6/27/23  
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                Second: Mike N. 
To accept the minutes of 6/27/23.                 Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye. 
 
Minutes of 7/11/23  
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                Second: Mike N. 
To accept the minutes of 7/11/23.                 Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye. 
 
Grease Trap Permits - Paula sent the Commissioners the forms for internal permit holders as well as the letter for 
external permit holders. The new form was set up to get more information on the inspections being done. There will 
be a sample form and blank form sent. Paula reviewed the permit holders to determine those who are non-compliant. 
The permit fee is $150 and an automatic non-compliance fee of $100.  For Internal grease trap holders, Conrad’s 
drive-in is consistently late in sending monthly reports. For those with Interceptors, La Belena was due to submit a 
pumping report in June, but she has not received it yet and Il Forno pumped in June but she just received the report. 
Paula asked if the Commission wanted to institute the $100 fine and the Commission discussed. Paula read the 
regulation stating the automatic non-compliance fine of $100. If they stay non-compliant, Paula will ask the 
Commission to institute the $25/day fine. She added the fines kept establishments compliant last year.  John noted 
during Covid they waived all the fees.  
Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                  Second: Brett R. 
To apply the $100 fee to the 3 non-compliant restaurants.  
Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
John stated they used to do random inspection audits and he would like do them again. The CTE maintenance 
person could do the inspections, along with a Commissioner.  The Commission discussed and agreed it is a good 
idea. Mike M. asked how they would be conducted. John replied they would go when the business was not busy, 
making sure the reporting is up to date, looking for any change in schematics and inspect the grease trap. John 
noted they did one at Il Forno and pointed out some issues to fix. Also the establishments would need to note if 
additional work, such as jetting, has been done.  The Sewer Department will decide who to inspect.   
Oil Water Separators- Paula said there are 4 establishments with Oil Water separators- the 2 Whalom Car Washes, 
Unitil and Walmart. This is a new regulation and the fee is $150. She asked for feedback from the Commission on 
what the form should look like. Paula screen-shared some sample logs from CRD and Abbotsford Mission as 
examples and the Commission discussed.  Bill asked what Fitchburg uses and Paula will check with them. The 
Commission agreed to discuss this at the next meeting.   
October Meeting Schedule  – The Commission agreed to cancel the meeting on Halloween Night (10/31). 
Town Meeting Warrant Articles- Paula screen-shared the warrant articles: #1 – Transfer of $1,851.30 to the Sewer 
Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund (Received when people connect) and # 2 – Transfer of $5,340.00 into the 
Sewer Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund.  These are the regular transfers and Bill confirmed that the Special Town 
Meeting will be 11/14. 
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                  Second: Mike M.     
To approve the 2 transfers  for the FY24 Special Town Meeting articles. 
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye. 
 
Business Manager Report – Update on System Maintenance – Paula stated she is keeping track of the station 
maintenance and sent a report to the Commissioners. The report consists of information on the components and any 
issues. Paula and Bill met a few times with Wade from CTE.  Al Packard has left the company and his son Albe has 
taken over. Albe has been submitting reports and checking in once a week with them. She talked to Wade about the 
proposed replacement of 3 cranes at the stations. He said the cranes would need to be modified before use, but that 
would void the warranty, so he is looking at other solutions. The funds have been encumbered. Invitation for Bid 
Award- Paula reported that CTE won the maintenance bid and the award is $174,058. They have had 2 meetings 
with Wade, who is modifying the report with Paula. Wade is in the process of doing site inspections with Albe, so they 
can give the Commission some insight for Capital Planning.  Bill reported that shortly Clean Basins will be sending 2 
trucks to take care of the scheduled line jetting and Martinez will be doing cameraing of lines soon.  John added that 
everything seems to be going well with Albe and Wade. Exterior maintenance – Paula and John visited the pump 
stations and noted the vegetation is out of control, grass needs to be mowed and vegetation has woven the fences 
and gates together. They have contracted with Katie Forester to mow and weed the exterior of the stations, along 
with making the gates operational again. The cost will be $3,200 and she will start soon. Operational Plan – Paula, 
Bill, Albe and Wade will be working on a Capital Plan. Inflow/Infiltration (I/I)- Paula and Bill met with John from F.R. 
Mahoney regarding using Spill Sense- a tool for determining I/I problems. There is an interface for computer and 
phone to tell what is going on. It is portable and can be moved from 1 manhole to another. They will try one unit and if 
it works well, she may suggest purchasing more. Paula has a Purchase Order for 1 already and they will provide 
training to Paula, Bill and Albe. John noted there was a problem on Richard’s Way with the manholes and this meter 
could determine how bad the flow is.  
PUBLIC COMMENT – Paula noted they will be discussing the IMA at the 9/12 meeting. Also Town Counsel said they 
cannot discuss the IMA in Executive Session. 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
September 12, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
September 26, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
October 10 , 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                  Second: Mike N. 
To adjourn  at 7:04pm                                      Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and John -aye. 
    
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
Handouts:  Paula screen-shared: 
                     -- 2 sample logs for Oil Water Separators  
                     -- 2 articles for the Special Town Meeting on 11/14/23 