===PAGE 1===
 
 
 Minutes of 5/9/23 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW 
Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Absent: Mike Deveikis 
Guests:  Al Packard, Chad T. Empey LLC  
John opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave noted the Town Election will be on 5/20 and there is still an opening for a Commissioner, 
as a write-in candidate. Anyone interested should contact a Commissioner. He also thanked Mike Deveikis for his 
work over the past few years.  
ANNOUNCEMENTS – Paula read a thank you card from Barb Lefebvre for her 15-year award and for all the love 
and support she received over the years. John urged all to vote for Brett at the Town Election. Dave also thanked Bill 
B. for his excellent presentation on behalf of the Sewer Commission at the Town Meeting. All agreed.  
APPOINTMENTS – 
Chad T. Empey LLC- Al Packard- Al noted they have a new general manager, who was interested in the town 
policies and procedures. John asked Al to give a status update on the system. Al sent Paula a list of repairs and 
upgrades for 3 of the pump houses. He had ordered 6 rebuild kits and 2 complete vacuum pumps. One will replace 
the pump that is acting up at Mass 1 and the other will be a spare.  Each station has 2 vacuum pumps and after 
servicing them in February, he noted 1 needed a complete rebuild. John noted the 3 vacuum pumps are Dana, 
Leominster and Mass 1, where most of flow goes. Al added there are also 7 similar lift stations in town. Al said he 
started his “wish-list” with Barb and Rob.  The pumps useful life is currently 5-7 years. Paula put together a 
spreadsheet, going out to FY30 and has been working with Bill on a plan for spending the remainder of FY23 money.  
Paula screen-shared the Capital Planning Worksheet and noted it shows spending spread out over several years, 
for about $100K per year. The total for the remainder of FY23 is $46,141 for the following pump station repairs: 
Dana-crane & seals, Electric Ave- block heater, Leominster Rd- crane, Francis Ave- panel, Mass 1 – crane & pump 
rebuild, Meadowwoods – dialer & pump ($10,062), Mass 2-Block heater & dialer, and Mass 3- dialer. They have 
budgeted $64,150 for Infrastructure and spent $15K so far, which leaves enough for all the requested repairs. Paula 
will need quotes before the end of the fiscal year (6/30) and can encumber funds for payment. Paula noted in FY24, 
they will need a new generator for Twin City for $80K, which will be the only item purchased next year. Dave pointed 
out that capital spending is not part of maintenance spending. Paula stated the $15K was spent on maintenance 
items, such as hose replacement. Going forward, she would like to have 2 line items – 1 for Maintenance and 1 for 
Capital. Dave asked about West St. and Paula replied there will be an HMI Upgrade and pumps in FY25.  Al noted 
West St. is running well now. There was concern in the past with shop rags caught in the pumps but it has been ok 
lately.  Dave pointed out even though there will be no capital spending other than a generator in FY24, they will still 
be doing maintenance. Al said he wants to have extra seals on hand and he will get quotes for all items. Paula added 
she will work with Al to shift things as needed. Al stated they have replaced the panels at 3 stations and will change 
the rest of the panels to mechanical stations, which have parts that are easy to get and are relatively cheap. Al noted 
he had talked to Mike Deveikis, who said the schematics looked great. Al would like to use the pumps in stock first 
but could look at other manufacturers in the future. Bill pointed out that the contract with Empey will be up on 6/30 
and he would like to get all the work done before then, to take advantage of better pricing. Brett suggested getting the 
block heaters now while they can. Paula noted they have $10K budgeted for I/I and she would like to purchase the 
float sensor previously discussed which would give them an idea where the I/I problems are. She has also created a 
database to track the manholes and repairs. Paula and Bill discussed the manholes with the highest I/I figure and will 
make those the highest priority. There are excess funds in engineering and she will reallocate the remaining $24K to 
infrastructure to address the priority manholes. Paula stated Wright Pierce estimated in 2020 the cost of $112K for 
priority manholes and they will use all addition funding available to address them. Paula noted she is referring to I/I 
below the road caused by broken frames, bolts missing, wall damage and pipe joints. The Wright Pierce report 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
recommended many repairs outside of paving, such as lining and replacing the frame and cover. Dave noted on 
Mass Ave, the state replaced manhole covers and built them up with brick but over time, the cover sinks or tilts. Brett 
suggested calcium chloride could be eating the brick. John said Bill will name priorities and they will use available 
money to work on I/I.  Mike N. agreed with spending money on preventative maintenance and being proactive. Paula 
noted several streets need jetting for a total of 3 miles and they are waiting for quotes. Bill stated it is about 20% of 
the system and he will discuss the plan with Al. Dave hoped Al’s company will be bidding again on the contract and 
asked about missing reports.  Al replied he has the information but is having issues with working on Excel. Paula said 
she would work with Al and could set something up for him. Al confirmed they are bidding on the contract.   
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
Capital Plan – Paula has not heard any updates on the earmark requests and the O&M RFP is still in the queue. 
Julie (Asst. Town Manager) said she has 9 RFP’s to review and will get to theirs as soon as possible.  Bill noted he 
has a couple critical RFPs he is awaiting approval on.  The Commission discussed and noted they approved the RFP 
in early April. John will either send a letter or talk to Heather.  
Minutes of 4/25/23- (The Minutes for 4/11 will be discussed next meeting) 
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dave M. 
To accept the minutes of 4/25/23.                       Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye. 
Q4 FY23 Commitment- Paula reported the quarterly bills went out on 5/2 and the Commitment total was 
$255,388.23. Paula asked the Commissioners to come in to sign it and will check if they can use Docu-Sign instead.  
Town Meeting Update- Bill gave the Sewer budget presentation at Town Meeting and it passed 90-8. John noted a 
question was asked about the large miscellaneous figure in the budget. Paula said she will change the format for the 
budget for FY25 and also the way they do the betterments income and outgo, to eliminate the miscellaneous 
category. She would like to break it down to payroll, office expenses, capital expenditures and supplier expenses.  
A & D Crossroads –Paula met with Town Counsel. She noted they had sent A&D a notice of non-compliance and 
their balance is now $2,525. The Commission cannot do a lien, but Town Counsel suggested scheduling a hearing 
and notifying the property owner. If they do not attend, the Commission can pursue terminating their right to 
discharge grease into the system and notify the Board of Health. John suggested talking to the restaurants and Paula 
replied she has been sending copies of every notice to them. The Commission discussed and agreed to schedule a 
hearing at the 5/30 meeting.  
Action Items- none 
Business Manager Report – FY23 Budget Update- Paula screen-shared the FY23 budget update. She noted the 
betterment revenue and privilege fees came in much higher than anticipated, but user charges are down, due to an 
over-estimate of gallons. This will also effect FY24. They do have 3 connections in process, which will help. The rest 
of the line items are on target and Investment income will also be higher. Overall, there will be an increase in 
anticipated Revenues of $34,884.03. Salary will be over by $10K, but Paula anticipates having $62,697.31 left in 
Other Departmental Expenses. She anticipates spending all for Purchase of Service items. There will be money left 
over in Legal and Engineering. There will be a $5K deficit for Utilities and the Transfers will be as previously 
forecasted. Paula predicted they will have $57K surplus which could be used for infrastructure, such as manholes. 
She will update the Commissioners with their recommendations.  
Grease Trap Permit Holders Update- Paula reported all are up to date except for Conrad’s. John asked about the 
school’s pumping reports.  Paula stated Barb was trying to get reports from last February for the school’s grease 
traps but did not get a response.  Paula followed up and asked for the February and April vacation reports but did not 
receive a response. She also copied the Superintendent on the last request and her administrative assistant 
responded.  Paula replied she had still not received the reports and if the reports are not received soon, she will put it 
on the next agenda for non-compliance. The Superintendent will talk to the new Facilities director to make sure the 
reports are done.  John asked if they are going to treat the schools like the restaurants in town and Dave said they 
should be treated the same.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Initial Leominster IMA Meeting- is scheduled for 10am on 5/24 at 37 Carter St, Leominster.  Mike N., Dave, 
Heather and Bill will be attending. The Commission agreed to have Paula also attend. Dave suggested meeting with 
Mike, Bill and Paula before the meeting. Paula noted Town Counsel will not attend the first meeting. Wright Pierce is 
in the process of reviewing the first draft of the NPDESpermit for Leominster in regard to the IMA. Paula will also 
check if Wright Pierce is doing any work for Leominster.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Dave urged all to come out and vote at the Town Election. 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
May 20, 2023 – Town Election 
May 30, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
June 13, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation 
June 27, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation 
 
 
Motion: Brett                                                                                                                                     Second: Mike N. 
To adjourn at 7:15pm.                                           Roll Call Vote: Mike- aye, Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
Handouts:  
 Thank you note from Barb Lefebvre read aloud. 
 Capital Planning Worksheet screen-shared. 
 FY23 Budget Update screen-shared. 
 
  
 