
Minutes of 6/25/24 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk-Mike Mackin, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Business Manager-Paula Bertram
John opened the meeting at 6:04pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT and ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
APPOINTMENTS – R. Proctor – Extension Request 12 Kimball Street- not present but Bill will contact Greg.
CURRENT BUSINESS - 
--Organization of the Board – Election of Officers
   Chair – Brett nominated John R.; Mike M. seconded.    Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye.  
      Brett thanked John for staying on as Chair.                                                                                                                    
   Vice Chair – Mike M. nominated Brett; John seconded. Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye.
   Clerk – Brett nominated Mike M.; John seconded.         Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike M.-aye, and John -aye.
--Waiver of Interest – School Accounts – John stated that they did not pay the interest of $194.04 on their Q3 bill.  In order to waive it, they will need to take a vote. They did not give an explanation for not paying it. Paula sent a reminder to Eric Hevy (Facilities Dir.) but did not hear back. Brett noted that anything the Schools Department pays for is paid by taxes, but he would appreciate an explanation. John noted that the Select Board revoked the license for Re-Boot Restaurant for not paying. Also, a while back they gave an opportunity to ask for interest forgiveness, but the time frame is well past.  John noted at a Select Board meeting that the Sewer Department is an enterprise fund and they are having some cash-flow issues right now.
Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                               Second: Brett R.
To deny the waiver.   
Discussion: Brett stated that they need to hold people accountable.  Mike added that he can’t support the idea without an explanation.
Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye, and John -aye.  John will notify Myleen.

--Q4FY25 Commitment of $249,988.42 – John asked for a vote. 
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                Second: Mike M.
To approve the Q4FY25 Commitment of $249,988.42.          Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Brett-aye, and John-aye.
John noted that Paula sent out the DocuSign and asked the Commissioners to sign it. 
--Manhole Inspections- John reported that they hired CTE to look at a specific number of manholes that Wright Pierce had noted as having I&amp;I issues. Bill gave them a list from 2016 inspections to reinspect. They came back and noted that some did not need any work, so he gave them a second list to inspect.  They found a lot that just needed patching and new covers/frames.  They did note some with actual I&amp;I coming in and it gave Robert (CTE) a better idea of where I&amp;I is in town. Bill added that CTE was much cheaper than Wright Pierce and the information is valuable. Brett stated that this was a great way to go and asked how they test for I&amp;I.  Bill replied that they looked for cracks and staining. John noted that the inspection was in preparation for going out to bid for manhole repairs, using the ARPA money. Mike asked to clarify that the repairs will come to $94K – within budget and John agreed. Bill stated the next step is to work with Paula on specifications and quantities in order to go out to bid (IFB).  
--Pump Station Clogs- John said he will be giving a presentation on 7/9 to Select Board as an awareness campaign. They have also talked about running an ad with pictures in the Ledger. There have been 30 clogs since September. John observed clogs at the Leominster Rd. station with huge clump of wipes that Robert had been clearing. He noted that they could add a grinder but it would cost tens of thousands of dollars.  They could also pump the wet wells out more frequently but that costs $4K to do all stations. The best option is to try to educate users, with a full page ad for $400. Brett suggested adding that the clogs are directly effecting their bill. Mike suggested adding pictures of things to not put in the system.  
Business Manager Report – Billing Software Update- John reported that the Q4 bills went out with brute force and a lot of help from Town Hall staff. They did meet in Executive Session with the Select Board and Suzor IT about the issue. He is hoping the next billing cycle is better for August 1st. Munis needs to fix their software, but Bill noted that it is still not fixed. 
--Budget Status- John stated they are showing a $52K deficit but the bills just went out and there are still some delinquencies from Q1 &amp; Q2. Betterments are slower coming in, but that may be an accounting issue. 
--Green Communities Grant- John noted that the new pumps would offer little savings so they will not be able to get money from the grant. 
--50 Mass Avenue – ReBoot – The Select Board did not renew their license and the water was shut off. 
--Bad Larry’s, 1 Main Street -Grease Trap Update - Paula received word that their new grease trap has been installed. 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Mike reminded the public that they have openings on this committee. John said it was brought up at Select Board meetings and it is a good way to start on a town board. 

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
July 9, 2024 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation 
July 23, 2024 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
August 13, 2024 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation 

Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                 Second: Brett R.  
To adjourn at 6:42 pm.                                                          Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye, and John-aye

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk




























