
Minutes of 10/08/24 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Mike Mackin, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk- Scott Dall, Member - Joe Hurley, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Eli Torres
Mike opened the meeting at 6:09pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Mike said he was happy to welcome the new members and he is looking forward to working together going forward. 
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
CURRENT BUSINESS – 
DPW Director Updates:
--Business Manager Position New Hire- Bill reported they interviewed 1 candidate who did well. She has good business experience but does not know sewer or Munis. However she demonstrated that she could learn the processes needed.  If they hire her, he will sit down with her at regular intervals to make sure things are working out. They still need to check her references before moving forward and will hold off on ratifying her. Joe said it was a good interview and she showed that she wants to work. His concern was that she may take another job before they meet again. Brett asked if she seemed self-motivated and Bill replied that she is young but has 10 years of work experience. Brett also asked if she got a good view of the job expectations and Bill said she did. Joe added that her problem with her current job is that she is working more hours than she expected without any opportunity to move up or get a raise. Bill noted that she wanted to give 2 weeks’ notice and would not be able to start until November. He suggested holding this over to the next meeting. Bill added that she was the only candidate interviewed and that Paula will help with the billing process as part of training.
-- Assistant to the Business Manager Position- Bill reported that they have a couple candidates but he suggested waiting until they hire the Sewer Business Manager. 
-- Update on Special Town Meeting Articles- Bill stated that the FY24 books are not closed yet and may not close until after the Special Town Meeting. If so, they will make the swap at the Spring Meeting, but it will not have an impact on the budget. 
--Mass 1 Line Repairs – Bill reported that CTE is trying to get set up within the next couple of weeks. Brett asked if there will be an overlap with the water main work in front of Mass 1 and Bill replied that is what he has to coordinate with the water district. 
-- Manhole Repair IFB went out 9/25 and the bids are due 10/23. Bill said one bidder had some questions and he hopes all goes well.
--Grease Trap and OWS Permits Renewal Date – Bill noted that in February 2023, the Commission voted to require permits for the Oil Water Separators. The first permits were issued in September 2023 and he just renewed the permits for the next year. The regulations state that the permits are effective on April 1st, so Bill proposed that they extend the new current permits until 3/31/26 to put them back on schedule. He confirmed that this would not impact the fiscal budget. 
Motion: Brett R.       Second: Joe
To extend the current Oil Water Separator permits to 3/31/26.                                      
Discussion: Joe asked to clarify what the permit was for and Bill replied they are businesses who separate oils from the water going into the system such as car washes. Bill noted there are only 6 and they have to send in reports which they are doing so far. Scott questioned if they should do a pro-rated bill and Commission discussed. Bill stated the renewal fee is $150.  
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Joe-aye, Scott-aye and Mike-aye.

--In Person/Hybrid Meetings- Joe suggested that some could meet in person with an option to allow others to join virtually and Mike noted that this became a policy after Covid. Bill said that other boards are doing that now with a Zoom option.  Mike suggested having an in-person meeting once a month.  Bill noted the DPW conference room can be used for in-person meetings with a Zoom option. Scott suggested having the in-person meeting at 7pm. Brett agreed and suggested having the Zoom meeting at 6pm. Mike proposed holding the 1st meeting in-person/hybrid and 2nd meeting via Zoom. Brett added that the conference room is able to record the meeting.
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                              Second: Brett R.
To vote on meeting in-person the 1st meeting of the month at 7pm and meet via Zoom at 6pm for the 2nd meeting of the month.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Joe-aye, Scott-aye and Mike-aye.
   
--Future agenda items- Bill suggested keeping the current agenda items on future agendas for updates. Joe asked how they would file to be on the ballot in the Spring and Mike replied the simplest way is to show up at Town Caucus, where you will be nominated for the ballot. 
  
PUBLIC COMMENT – Mike thanked Joe and Scott for stepping up to the plate. Brett thanked Mike for being chairman and that he handled the meeting well. 

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 22, 2024 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation 
November 5, 2024 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, In-Person @ DPW Conference room
November 19, 2024 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
December 10, 2024 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, In-Person @ DPW Conference room 

Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                 Second: Joe H.
To adjourn at 6:55pm.                                              Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Brett-aye, Scott-aye and Mike-aye.

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk


























