===PAGE 1===
Minutes of  01 /28/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: , Vice-Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Clerk- Scott Dall , Member : Joe Hurley , DPW Directo r-  
Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager-Andrew Va lliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent:  Chair-  Mike Mackin  and Eli Torres
Brett  opened the meeting at 6 :0 4 pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the
meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT  & ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
--- Minutes  of 10/19/24 and 1 2/10/24
    Motion:  Joe H.                                                                                                                             
Second : Scott D.
    To accept the minutes of 10/19/24 and 12/10/24 .                Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-
aye and Brett-aye.
--- 12 Kimball St. – Bill reported that  the owner came into the office and stated he will pay the 
Privilege F ee now in full. The Commissioners will DocuSign  the document  so it can go to the 
Town Treasurer .
--- Fiscal Year 2024 Annual Report-  Bill explained the Annual Report  is  a short summary of the 
fiscal year and Jane has volunteered to write it. Jane stated that she will do a draft and send it to
Andrew and Bill  for updated figures . They will  send the completed report  to the Commissioners , 
who will need to vote to accept before the report goes to the Town Manager ’s office. The report 
is due 2/17 , so they will need to vote on it at the next meeting.
--- Absent Members – Bill noted that he made contact with Eli , who said he h as taken on a  new 
job and does not have time to be on the Commission anymore. Eli  s tated  he w ill  write a letter of 
resignation  and bring it to the Town Hall  within a couple weeks. Bill added that once the 
resignation is received at the Town Hall, they can start recruiting a new member. 
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates
   --2 nd  Quarter Billing Demands Update – Andrew reported that he thinks he got the demands 
to go through with straight $10 fees and will be work ing  with Paula  to get them to print . If it goes 
well, he is h op ing  to have them ready for Friday  and ask Jane to come in to do the mailing . He is
also working on the quarterly billing  and making progress on that . The quarterly billing usually 
goes well and  i t should be done in the next week or so. Brett told Andrew that he is doing a great
job and they appreciate it. Bill reported that  Andrew is doing well  and picking it up with Paula ’s 
instruction. To give Andrew more help, they reached out to the town ’s Munis consultant and he 
will be coming in the mid dle of February .  Bill also asked the consultant to give Andrew a high 
level look at Munis to help  him understand what Munis does in the background . The consultant 
came in to work with Paula in the past and he is being paid out of ARPA money  – not the Sewer 
budget.
   --Assistant to the Business Manager Position - Bill reported that they  have 2 candidates with 
interviews lined up. He w ill let the Commissioners know when the interviews will take place so 
they can sit in on t hem .
   -- Manhole Repair IFB-  Bill stated there are n o updates  and Brett added that they need to wait 
until the frost comes out of ground. Bill replied that is why they  res trict road openings from 
November to April 15 th .
--- Future Agenda Items-  Assistant Business Manager, Quarterly Billing , FY24 Annual Report
---OLD BUSINESS - already covered.
===PAGE 2===
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Bill remind ed  residents to not flush anything down their toilets other than 
waste and toilet paper. Also flushable wipes are not flushable – they tend to clog up the system , 
so p lease do not flush any wipes .  Bret t added that this was a positive meeting with more  help 
with Munis , a potential assistant on the way , m oney coming in  and a plan for future repairs.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
February 11 , 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  at DPW
February 25 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
March 11 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  at DPW
March 25 , 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                                    
Second:  Joe H.
To adjourn  at 6:25pm                                                                    Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-
aye and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk