===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  12/9/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member : Arthur 
Katis , Sewer Business Manager - Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent:  DPW Director- Bill Bernard
Vice-Chair Scott D.  opened the meeting at 7 :04  pm . and did a roll  call of attendees. The 
Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT /ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS –
---Minutes of  11/25/25
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                            
Second: Arthur K.
To approve the min utes for 11/25/25.                               Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Dan-aye , 
and Scott- aye.
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
    i. ADU amendment  – Andrew reported  that T own C ounsel said th e ADU rules they voted on 
are in effect  and  just need to be add ed to the website.  The verbiage will be updated at the 
S pring Town Meeting. Arthur asked if they put any verbiage in abou t having them tie into the 
st reet they are on  and  Andrew replied they will need approval from Town Counsel . Dan noted 
that there was language about having to go into the existing house or existing line.  (Brett R. 
joined the meeting.) 
   ii. Q2 FY2 6 Demands  – Andrew stated any unpaid sewer bills are now past due  and he will be 
processing the demands  on Thursday. Users can pay tomorrow but if they  are still not paid, they
will have an added $10 late fee. He  added that there were 423 bills that were  not paid out of a 
total  9 4 3 bills  sent out . Users can call Andrew  if they have questions.
  iii. FY25 Tax Lien Report  – Andrew reported bills  not paid in  FY 2025 will be going on users  tax 
bills. The total is roughly $72,260. Scott asked  at what point do they attach  the lien  and  Andrew 
replied he has b een  working on them for  the past 2 weeks. Dan noted  they c ould  shut off water  
after a certain time  but they agreed they cannot shut off sewer.  Brett asked about  if there was 
anything set up with the Water Department for shutting it off and Andrew said he did not think so
since the Water Department is a private entity. Scott asked about  the assistant sewer business  
manager and Andrew confirmed  that she is  still there.
--- Future Agenda Items-  Discuss adding verbiage to the town law that a property is required to 
hook up on the street of  the property ’s address,  Discussion on ADU for Town Meeting verbiage 
change  and if this will be part of new construction.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
January 13 , 2026 @ 7pm – Regular ( Hybrid )  Meeting
January 27 , 202 6  @ 6 pm – ( Zoom )  Meeting
February 10 , 202 6  @ 7 pm – Regular ( Hybrid )  Meeting
February 2 4 , 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting
Motion:  Arthur K.                                                                                                                               
Second:  Scott D.
To adjourn  at 7:25 pm.                                            Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye , Ar thur-aye, Scott-
aye and Brett-aye .
===PAGE 2===
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk