===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 03/03/26 Sewer Commission Joint meeting with Board of Selectmen, via Zoom.  
Attendees: Sewer Commission: Brett Ramsden (Chair), Scott Dall (Vice-Chair), Dan Proctor (Clerk), and Arthur 
Katis (Member).  Board of Selectmen: Amanda Moore (Chair), Renee Emkey (Clerk), Members – Brian Lehtinen 
and Glenn McLeod, and Jennifer Warren-Dyment (Town Manager)  
Guest: Allan (Chip) Wilson (candidate for Sewer Commission) 
Brett Ramsden called the Sewer Commission meeting to order at 7:32 pm. and did a roll call of members present.  
      Chair Amanda Moore asked Allan to tell a little about himself and why he was interested in this position. Allan 
stated he responded to a post for new Commissioners and said he wanted to do a little more for the town as a 
volunteer. He added that sewer was a good fit for him. Amanda asked Brett if the Commission had talked about his 
request and he replied that Allan attended their last meeting. They discussed the duties of the Commission and found 
that Allan has a construction business which deals with sewer installation in Lunenburg and other towns. The 
Commission asked Allan to join them and he agreed to.  
       Renee Emkey asked about the length of the term and the Town Manager replied it would be until the Town 
Election. Renee asked Allan if he was willing to run for a term after that and he responded he would. The Town 
Manager suggested that Allan could attend the Town Caucus on 3/9 and be added to the Town Election ballot. 
 
The Select Board Chair asked for a motion. 
Motion: Renee Emkey                                                                                                         Second: Brian Lehtinen 
To appoint Allan Wilson to the Sewer Commission for a term to expire on May 16, 2026.  
Roll Call Vote: Mr. McCloud-aye, Mr. Lehtinen-aye, Miss Emkey-aye and Ms. Moore-aye. 
 
The Sewer Commission Chair asked for a motion. 
Motion: Scott Dall                                                                                                                   Second: Dan Proctor                                                                             
To accept Allan Wilson as a new Commissioner.  
Roll Call Vote: Dan Proctor-aye, Scott Dall-aye, Arthur Katis-aye and Brett Ramsden-aye. 
 
The Chair declared that the motion passed and thanked Allan. Brett asked for a motion to close the meeting.  
Motion: Scott Dall                                                                                                               Second: Dan Proctor 
To end the Sewer Commission meeting at 7:39 pm.    
Roll Call Vote: Scott Dall-aye, Arthur Katis-aye, Dan Proctor-aye, and Brett Ramsden-aye. 
 
  
Respectively submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 