===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bob opened the meeting at 7pm.
CONSENT AGENDA
The Board noted the items on the consent agenda and had no questions:
Rate increase - effective 7/1/2010, included in article in Sentinel
Fitchburg IMA - awaiting budget information
Sewer Districting bylaw - still ongoing in state house process
Privilege fee policy - clarification of Sewer Commission policy change sent to Town Manager, DPW Director,
Building Inspector and Planning Director
Highfields Village - Communication with Planning Director regarding status of peer review funds
CWMP - 2nd MEPA filing to occur mid- July, corrections to various tables communicated to Kevin, confirmed
all parcels in Sewer Service Area included in flows (except 10 in Cross Street area.)
Overdue town building acct bills - sewer bills not paid given to Town Manager.
Meadowwoods reimbursement - backup info given to Town Accountant, awaiting reimbursement.
DISCUSSION WITH DPW DIRECTOR
1. Jack noted that Janet Lane in Whites Woods does not have pipes in the ground, hence would be subject to a
privilege fee if pipes are installed.
2. I/l & flow meter work update:
GPS location for every manhole has been established, some installed during heavy rain.
Baseline done on schools visually
Wal-Mart roof drainage not tied to sewer. Will verify Hannaford's as well.
After July 1str, will set a baseline at wet wells at each pump station and at questionable down
gradient locations; portable meter required (probably by September). Readings will create
direction of next steps.
3. Sean Patrick's Restaurant expansion - They installed a 2000 gallon grease trap outside which will be
inspected regularly. Need to find out if we have an inspection fee and is the inspection coordinated with the
Board of Health inspection of the inside grease trap.
4. Status of grease traps for school and use of Weston & Sampson. Jack will contact W& S in the new fiscal
year.
5. Sewer Rules and Regulations clarification
Jack clarified that it was never the intent to require a homeowner to replace their sewer pipes
inside their building. Schedule 40 or cast iron must be present at the foundation. It will be the
inspector's decision, should another material be present. New construction shall be schedule 40 or
equal. 6" SDR 35 will be connected to the existing lateral of each residence and the line will remain
at a 6" diameter until connected to the 4" PVC/Cast Iron at the house. Jack will communicate with
Barb to assure that the wording in our regulations follow this understanding.
Jack stated that for inspections the tasks involved include certifying that plan/sketch is acceptable
regarding bends, cleanouts, etc., Provide contractor with lateral location, inspect lateral connection
before backfilling, be sure old tank is pumped and decommissioned, inspect at the very least a
portion of the "run" and the connection to the existing pipe at the foundation.
6. Drain layer's insurance requirement
Jack provided that general liability should be $1 M each occurrence, $1 M personal & Adv injury,
$2 M general aggregate; Auto $1 M, and Worker's Comp at $100,00 each accident. The
Commission was satisfied with this listing.
7. Drain layer/'s cash bond requirement
Jack recommended $1,500. The Commission questioned this level - Bob Proctor and Jack noted
that Worcester requires $15,000, Fitchburg $5,000, Leominster $5,000, all of which are released
after two years passes from the last installation of a system. The Commission will review this at a
future meeting.
8. Variable Frequency Drive Motor - has been installed in the Townsend Harbor Road pump station, financed
through Meadowoods grant.
===PAGE 2===
by-law definition of a dwelling unit. After discussion, this was voted unanimously.
BILLING ISSUE
27 Whalom Road - It was discovered that while this site was connected August 2006, a certificate of completion was
just discovered on June 14th. As a result, there is an outstanding amount due of $1,610.86 which was never billed to
them. After discussion, it was voted to allow the homeowner to make quarterly payments over a year's period without
interest.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
The Commission voted to approve the minutes of May 12, 2010 (Carl, Bob and Jay).
Open Meeting seminar will take place on Tuesday, July 6t at Leominster City Hall.
The next meeting is July 14t.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
The Commission voted to go into executive session to discuss strategy as relates to pending litigation. Carl, Bob, Jay,
Butch and Dave voted in the affirmative.
The regular meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Robert Ebersole
Chair, Sewer Commission
