===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
te te meng pa concs r workshop with Weston & Sampson.
Weston & Sampson -Bob reviewed the highlights of the workshop with Weston & Sampson and the work ahead for FY11, the work on the Inflow &
Infiltration (lal) and flow metering work to be done, the Fitchburg IMA which needs to be tinalized, and that Weston & Sampson is to give us a proposal for a
scope of services. Contracts are executed by the Town Manager, Kerry Speidel with the Sewer Commission's recommendation. A Letter Proposal from
Weston & Sampson was received to address I/l, looking at water use records, existing wastewater flow meters, records at our pump stations, installing a
temporary flow meter in one section of Town to monitor one area, and recommendations for additional flow metering locations in the Spring. Dave asked if
the price on the meters was negotiable. Bob stated that this proposal doesn't include the meters, that this is only Task 1. The Letter Proposal is for $6800.
Bob asked Jack if he recommends approval. Jack confirmed and asked Steve Pederson of Weston & Sampson to come forward and describe the process
Steve pointed out the best time to get flow data is in the spring when the ground water is high and the rainfall the greatest, so it is important to get the
baseline now, and figure out where to put the meters, so we are ready to go in the spring. He explained that this proposal covers getting this data now. The
only meter that is part of this proposal is a meter at Graham Street. They plan to put in a temporary meter to be able to confirm the current meter's
accuracy, and be able to calibrate it correctly. The largest part of the cost of Spring metering will be the number of meters put in and the length of time of the
study. So, the more data they have now to place those meters wisely in spring will save the Town money with the spring project. Dave MacDonald was
concerned about the cost of the meters for Task 2 but Steve confirmed that the $6800 does not include the spring metering which will be Task 2. Task 2 will
be a separate charge. Bob requested a motion to be made to recommend the Town Manager sign the current Letter Proposal, Butch so moved, Carl
seconded, vote taken was unanimous.
Consent Agenda items - Bob asked if the Commission had any comments on the Consent agenda items and reviewed again that Consent agenda items
are informational only and do not require any action. Consent agenda items were:
Highfields Village - we still need to set up escrow tri-party account, do up agreement with W&S, and receive check from Kent Oldfield, engineer for the
project. A letter was sent to Planning Board 8/25, per the Planning Board's request, explaining the nature of the re-design request to Highfields, and asking
that they grant them an extension til 11/1/10.
Town's Master Plan - Marion Benson has asked for input from the Sewer Commission with details provided on what has been connected to date, and the
Budget FY11 - Commission was provided with YTD report, updated with Payroll expenses and revenues from Munis effective 8/20.
Lunenburg Village - Commission still awaiting decision recorded at the Registry of Deeds. Kerry had sent out an email to the ZBA and Jack pertaining to
the condition of Pleasantview Ave. and what could be done in the meantime.
Fitchburg IMA - Barb has received the budget paperwork from Joe Jordan that we had been waiting on to proceed with the IMA negotiations.
Animal Hospital proposal/Carl Flinkstrom, a proposed veterinary clinic across from Twin City that the Commission will have to approve as it is a change
of use. ZBA approved of the project at a hearing on 8/11 and there will be a tech meeting on 9/14 10 a.m. for all interested parties.
2009 Town Report is now available in print at Town Hall.
I/l/ Flow meters/Grease traps-Bob asked Jack Rodriquenz to come forward and provide any updates on the I/l, Flow meters or Grease trap work that had
occurred since the last meeting. Jack stated that i/l and metering has been fairly well-covered by the discussions with Mr. Pederson of Weston & Sampson.
in the workshop, he handed out a disk for the members on a program called FOG, for Fats, Oils and Grease control, put out by the New England Interstate
Water Pollution Control Commission. After review of the information ourselves, we could share it with the residents in a televised meeting. It is a 4-step
program. First, determining where we are. We have a list of 23 non-residential kitchens in Town. Jack and Corey Dowd (sewer technician) will then work
with the plumbing inspector and the Board of Health to visit each location, ensure grease traps installed and up-to-code. 3d step is to inspect and verify there
is a maintenance program in place, and provide those locations with a checklist to self-monitor. Last step is public education - the CD has great slides,
brochures available for the public. Jack pointed out that just 1 tsp a month in 10,000 homes equates to 70 barrels of grease. It only takes a little bit from
each house and grease is the killer of any sewer system. After investing $13 million in a sewer system, we have to be diligent in keeping it working- both the
Town and its residents share responsibility. Bob reviewed his conversation with Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent of Schools, as to the maintenance of the
school grease traps, and that currently they are cleaned only once a year and that Bob pointed out it needs to be done more frequently than that. We will be
getting back to the schools regarding the maintenance of the traps now that school is back in session. Bob stressed that with a good maintenance program,
we may avoid the expense of an external grease trap system installation for $5-25,000 per unit per school. He noted that Sean Patricks had installed a new
grease trap with their recent expansion. And that he had attended the last Board of Health meeting and explained our process to them. He provided a
sample grease trap regulation, provided by Dave MaDonald. The Board of Health is looking into this as well and wants to work with the Sewer
Commission. As Jack had mentioned, we need to coordinate with the Plumbing Inspector and Board of Health and also the Building Inspector for changes
of use. Bob noted we are still in the investigation stage and learning what each of the Town departments are currently doing. Dave thanked Jack and offered
to attend any meeting with these businesses in regards to their grease traps. Carl asked about the state regulations. Barb noted that she had called
itchburg to research their requirements and had learned that they deter to their Board of Health for grease traps. The regulations provided to her by Jim
aretti, Public Health agent, are state regulations that we must abide by. Bob pointed out that the grease trap installation is part of the plumbing code
===PAGE 2===
for easy retrieval, and application tools either at individual workstations or via the internet. Dave asked what they do that is above what DigSafe provides.
Tim said their product provides a spatial database of the entire system, so that anyone can see how the utilities reside in relation to property lines, flood
zones, conservation areas, etc. Bob inquired about the properties that have septic systems in the Sewer District and noted his concern is finding those
properties that have disconnected their septic and connected to sewer, and tracking those properties. Tim responded that it depends on the information that
the Board of Health may have, then demonstrated the GIS system, maps, reports available using town of Stockbridge data, showcasing the PWIM tools
(Public Works Information Management)., used for electric, water, sewer & drainage, on both the parcel maps and aerial photos. To determine location of
lines, Cartographics would work with the local contact, familiar with the installation of the pipes. Typical workflow is to gather as much info in the field first,
occupying these points and mapping them in GPS. When the location is unknown, then they would go to the record drawings. The GIS tools allow users to
correct or maintain these lines in the system going forward. Bob had Tim clarify that Cartographics doesn't put anything down the pipes to map locations,
but stated that when we camera the lines, attaching a GPS device at that time may be very helpful. Tim noted that they have done that - linking a media file
with the GIS data. Tim stated that the information is loaded onto the database while they are in the field, so it is spatially accurate. Once complete the
information is loaded onto a laptop and the town of Stockbridge has 2 'toughbooks" that are taken into the field for both the Water & Sewer departments, so
the techs have immediate access to the parcel information in the field, including attributes of the pipes in the ground. The database can be used to note pipe
location and sizing, maintenance schedule, cleaning, replacement, etc. The user is also able to print out a map to take onsite. Barb stated having quick
access to the tie cards would be a real time saver. Bob noted that the DPW could use it for a maintenance record tool. Tim said having access to the data in
the field is invaluable, and used a blocked culvert as example. Jack stated it would have a great value to the Town and clarified that Dig Safe doesn't mark
the lines, that the DPW does. He stated that we didn't receive 100% of the as-builts for the sewer project from the engineers at the time of installation, so
there could be gaps in the information. Jack noted that drainage system identification would also be invaluable that had never been recorded. The Town
has looked at doing this for years, with the fire department also, that it is state of the art record-keeping. Bob asked if the Water department had their
i heater departmen for he that.
information digitized but Jack noted that it was only with the tie cards. As for maintaining or updating the records, Tim stated that the staff in town do that,
the engineer doing the work can update the data or as part of the contract, Cartographics could. Jack stated that if we had the money, it would be a valuable
tool. Dave recommended that if the Sewer Commission did this, that we do so in concert with Water, Highway, etc as a cost-sharing effort. Bob stated that
this issue was raised at this time to provide to Capital Planning, that it isn't in the budget for this year. Jack stated that if we make the request to Capital
Planning as an inter-departmental use, we would have much better luck on Town Meeting floor. Both Water Department and the Fire Department have
been interested in acquiring this type of application. Bob asked if the Commission wanted to pursue research of GIS and present information suitable for
the Capital Planning Committee to make this decision. Carl wanted to know a ballpark. Barb had the figure of $9950 for mapping the miles of sewer in
town, but Tim noted that it didn't include scanning the tie cards or the software & training. There are efficiencies for doing multiple systems, but a $10k figure
for sewer would be reasonable. We would only need to provide the sewer number to Capital Planning, but the DPW Director would work with the Town
Manager in coordinating the request for other town departments. Bob informed Tim that we will continue to research and will be in touch as to the next step.
Capital Planning - Commission asked Jack as DPW Director what Capital Planning needs he foresaw for Sewer (vehicles, tools, etc). Jack responded that
he had nothing that fit into the standards of Capital Planning. The one vehicle is only a few years old. We are acquiring through MIlA a safety grant for a
large magnetic tool to lift manhole covers. He would like GIS and thought it was important to get it submitted with Capital Planning for planning purposes.
Dave asked about the portable flow meters which Jack didn't think we needed at this time. We should study the cost of the meter vs. renting or using the
engineering consultant, how often the portable meter would actually be used and the appropriate size to get maximum value. We will discuss again with
Weston & Sampson as they are doing the metering work whether or not it may be worth the Town's investment in its own meter.
Wright Pierce - Barb noted that we had received a General Engineering Services Agreement for signature. Wright Pierce requires having such an
agreement on file in order to take on miscellaneous work such as the NDES permit response and the exhibit attached is the NDES work they completed.
It needs to be signed by Kerry as Town Manager. Bob asked for time to review and put on the agenda for the next meeting for discussion. Secondly, the
Notice of Project Change for the WMP, that was distributed to the Commission before the last meeting for review, needed to be voted on at this meeting.
Carl had only one edit to the Notice, requesting that "and political factors" from the lakes area section on page 4 should be removed. Bob agreed. Bob
asked for a motion to recommend that the Town Manager sign off on the Notice of Project Change as updated in August 2010, with the additional
lated in August 2010, wage aditional
correction discussed at this meeting Carl so moved, Butch seconded, vote taken was unanimous. And lastly, we had received their response to the
NDES permit and they did not recommend an appeal, only proposed that we may want legal counsel to review but that neither Bob nor Carl thought that
was necessary. Wright Pierce did recommend that the review be provided to the consultants working on the Fitchburg IMA to understand the Town's
responsibilities regarding NDES when negotiating the IMA which Barb had done by providing a copy to Steve P. from Weston & Sampson.
Pool policy - Commission reviewed the draft application that Barb had done to give pool owners to advise the Commission when they are planning to do a
complete till (not just topping off). Barb also provided a list of pool owners on the sewer line, provided by the Assessors office, to be used to send a mailing
regarding the new policy. here are 2 residents who had requested consideration by the Commission for the water used in filling their pools before this
policy was developed. Jack had no issue with the new policy since the water was not going into the sewer line, his only concerns being the policing and
verification of quantity used. Carl stated that we would just use the size of the pool. Bob also added the concern that the pool is not drained into the sewer
===PAGE 3===
as she had been using the sewer for four years. If we did, we'd have to credit everyone else that follows. If it is a hardship, we will work with her on a
payment plan but the amount remains. Barb will send a letter, communicating the Commissions' willingness to come up with the payment schedule which
will not create undue hardship.
Sewer extension policy - Bob noted that, at the last Commission meeting, we voted to revise the policy for private sewer extensions (not subdivisions)
that if a sewer extension was requested, that 2/3 of the affected owners must support the installation of that extension. This is due to the fact that we will be
charging those owners a privilege tee. Barb had provided a new draft reflecting that decision, with one change requiring that the applicant shall survey the
landowners as opposed to the Sewer Commission, which the Commission agreed with. Other wording changes were done to more closely match the
phrasing in the Sewer Bylaw. Carl asked for a better descriptive than "extensions" to receive a privilege fee. Barb will make the change and provide the
"final copy" at the next meeting..
Subcommittee formation - Bob noted that we needed to tap into the expertise of the Commission and when there is a task that we wish to remain
focused on, we need to form a subcommittee. Two issues that have come up recently are our website and public relations (such as encouraging new
customers, educating the public regarding fats, oils & grease). Bob is looking for volunteers to work on 2 subcommittees, or maybe just combining the two
into one, who would do the work and come back to report to the Commission. Dave asked about the timing - is it to start immediately? Bob said yes, to just
come up with recommendations for action. Bob reminded the Commission that, as a subcommittee, it would be subject to the Open Meeting Law and
posting requirements, etc. Dave asked who manages the web pages now, and Barb responded that it is handled by IT department. Dave said he would like
to work on the Web, which would then feed into advertising, incorporating the public relations aspect. Carl said he would be interested and agreed that the 2
tasks are really one and the same purpose. It was decided that Dave & Carl would serve on this first subcommittee.
Administrative Matters
Actual billing - Barb met with the Assessors & Collectors departments regarding getting our delinquent accounts on the December tax bills. Also,
discussed by the same group was getting the privilege fees assessed in the past calendar year for 323 & 369 Leominster and 419 Sunnyhill on the
December bills. It was determined that in order to get the privilege fees onto the tax bills, that a commitment had to be made to the Assessors. Barb used
the format from when the original betterment was committed to the tax bills and the Commission signed off on it so that Barb could turn it over to the
Assessors. She will continue to work with Jeff Ugalde on getting these delinquencies on the tax bills.
J&R Engineering PO for 6 Solenoids for pumping stations - Barb presented a Purchase Order for the Commission's approval for $824 to replace
solenoids. Corey had been repairing and maintaining, but they can no longer be repaired and must be replaced. Commission approved putting it through.
Invoices - Barb had invoices for approval - Leominster & Fitchburg usage invoices, Wright Pierce for Notice of Project Change (encumbered from
FY10), all of which were signed off on. Barb had one for Weston & Sampson that Steve P. said he would adjust and re-send. Barb also had one for
Koppelman & Paige but is questioning the amount. She will call Koppelman and Paige to discuss and bring it to the next meeting. Bob stated that if we did
not authorize the discussion, we would not have to pay for the bill.
Barb noted that originally we were going to go into Executive Session tonight, but that Kerry & Jeff would like to come meet with the Commission at their
next meeting regarding betterments in a general discussion first, so she would like to propose postponing Executive session until that time. The question of
the date for the next meeting was also brought up. She had sent out a proposal to move it to the 15 but that Carl would not be able to attend that meeting.
Kerry wishes to meet with as many members as possible. Butch could not attend a meeting on the 8th. It was determined that the meeting would be on the
15" as that was the date that the most members could attend. It will be at the Ritter in the Planning Board conference room at 7pm.
Minutes of 8/11 had been sent out for the Commission to review. The only edits were to add last names for readers in the future. Bob asked for a motion
to approve the minutes as amended. Vote taken was unanimous. Barb will bring them in revised next meeting for members to initial the edited version.
Bob asked if there were any other items to discuss, then asked for a motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn was made by Butch, seconded by Carl and
the motion to adjourn passed unanimously. Meeting was adjourned at 8:40 pm. Next meeting is September 15 at Ritter Building.
Respectfully submitted,
SWefek
Barb Lefebvre for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
