===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Tall et sm
aprovet
5/27/10
Town of Lunenburg
Sewer Commission
Minutes - April 14, 2010
The meeting was called to order by Paula Bertram, Chair. Members Steven
DeBettencourt, Carl Luck and Robert Ebersole also attended.
Lunenburg Village 40B
The commission reviewed the proposed plans and heard from Brian Milisci from
Whitman & Bingham about the general design of the subdivision and the proposed sewer
system. Gravity would serve many of the lots and connect to the existing town sewer at
Lesure Avenue, Whalom Road and Piedmont Avenue. The remaining lots would be
served by E-1 pumps. Brian estimated the cost for a force main and central pumping
station to be $250,000 which would be more expensive that the proposed system and
would have to be paid all upfront, while the E-1 pumps would be installed as each house
was built.
Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director was asked for his recommendations. He noted his
appreciation for the applicant's process and willingness to consider various options. Jack
has confidence in the E-1 pump system and would be open to the pipes being located
under the streets. He asked that sewer be installed in Pleasantview and that the street be
reclaimed and graded by the developer, followed by payment and drainage installed by
the town. There was general discussion about the estimated costs for this request.
The commission noted that part of the 40B process includes a calculation of the
reasonableness of required standards and that the project should not be rendered
unteasible. Specifically, the applicant asked the Commission to waive the privilege fees
for the affordable units. The commission noted that it has its role and the ZBA has its
role in the process, but was willing to discuss the request.
After further discussion, it was voted unanimously as follows:
1. To authorize the developer to connect to the sewer system and to accept the
proposed design of a combination of gravity and E-1 pumps, with lines located
ithin the paved way. The final system design must be approved by the Sew
ommission before any site work is started and must be in accordance with th
Town's current bylaws and regulations. Upon said submission, the Applicant will
pay all fees to the Sewer Commission to retain an engineer to conduct a peer
review of the final design.
2. To not waive connection fees for the project, as the Sewer Commission is
required to pay both Fitchburg and Leominster for any new connections, said fees
to be paid upon application for a building permit.
3. To consider waiving a portion of the privilege fee on the affordable units,
depending on further review of the proforma.
4. To request that sewer be installed on Pleasantview and the street would be
reclaimed and graded by the developer.
===PAGE 2===
Public Discussion
David Kenny, owner of Lot M, 1790 Massachusetts Avenue noted that he has the water
shut off at this property and the water department is not billing him while the water
remains shut off. He was requesting that the Sewer Commission follow suit and not bill
during the same period. The Commission took this request under advisement, noting that
we would research how many owners are in this same situation to determine the cost.
We would discuss this at our next meeting and get back to Mr. Kenny.
Fitchburg IMA
Weston & Sampson presented a memo detailing the final proposed IMA draft and will
follow up with an electronic version tracking the changes. We noted the requirement for
our charges to be based on metered flows of sewerage as opposed to metered flow of
water. This will require work to avoid Infiltration and Inflow (I&I), to keep costs down.
FY 2011 Budget
The Commission reviewed the budget prepared by Barb and made the following changes:
Increased User Charges to 445,173 to reflect a 20% increase, but noting that we will only
take in three quarters of that during the fiscal year.
Decreased Sewer Business Manger to $48,681 to reflect a 2% increase and not 3%
Increased overtime to $15,000 to deal with I&l investigations
Increased Infrastructure to $68,000 to cover costs for I&I
Decreased Legal to $6,000 projected less usage next year
Increased engineering costs to $20,000 noting the Leominster IMA will be due as well as
need to deal with several other issues.
We noted that the budget includes an increase in the demand fee from $5 to $10.
We noted that the additional infrastructure ($50K), engineering ($10K), and overtime
($3.5K) were not expected to continue in future years, and would be appropriate to be
covered by retained earnings. However, even with the 20% increase and taking out the
one time expenses, we would still be running a deficit of about $12,000.
As part of the budget discussion, I & I was discussed and Jack will be developing a
proposed workplan to address it including meter flow readings in the middle of the night,
reviewing various buildings to see if there is ground water coming through their pipes,
possible camera-ing of pipes to see if there are poor connections or breaks, as well as
developing a protocol to enter resident's homes to assure that sump pumps are not
connected to the system.
The board unanimously voted the budget as finalized, with a 20% increase in rates
effective July 1, 2010, including the increase in demand fee, and to take $75,743 from
retained earnings to balance the budget. We need to send out a letter announcing the rate
increase with an explanation. Bob will attend the Finance Committee meeting with Barb
on Thursday, April 29th
Administrative Matters
1. CWMP - Amendment for 2"° MEPA filing.
===PAGE 3===
The Board approved the Amendment for 2°d MEPA filing. This will be forwarded to the
Town Manager for signature
The meeting was adjourned at 10:45pm??
Respectfully submitted,
Robert Ebersole
