===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Paula formally opened the meeting at 7:04 pm.
Highfields Village (George Smith, John Godfrey, Kent Oldfield) - Kent started by reviewing the 2/22 informal meeting between himself, John
Godfrey, Paula and Steve in regards to the Highfields development and the proposed 66 units. He also did a brief history of the project, from the
original plan to have the access on Mass Ave, and having to move the access road to Northfield Road. He discussed that the sewer access point
will be down Pope Road, which is also the emergency access to the development. He noted that prior to the meeting on 2/22 their plan was to have
the pump station on Northfield Road, until they learned that that was outside the sewer district and it would have to be moved to within the district.
John Godfrey spoke about being the financing behind the project, and described how when the developers were told they could not have access to
Mass Ave, he went to John Saliba and arranged the option for a right of way through Saliba property to access Northfield Rd. A stipulation of his
agreement with Saliba was that there would be a sewer to which he could connect, although he made no promise to connect. With that agreement
in place, they re-designed the development, adding the area known as Blueberry Hills to give them 66 units. Since the meeting on 2/22 they have
re-located the pump station to the junction of the Blueberry Hills lot and the Leverone property and within the sewer district. They have also reduced
the size of the pump station to accommodate only the 66 homes as was requested 2/22. Discussion followed as to why E-one pumps were not
chosen, which would alleviate the need for the pump station. Kent stated that E-one is better for smaller developments and that gravity pipes are less
likely to break than 2 low pressure pipes. Jack Rodriquenz agreed with Kent that for this development, E-one's would not be a feasible option. Paula
inquired whether we'd found out what the cost to maintain a similar sized pump station was and Barb said she had referred that question to Weston
* Sampson. Kent noted that he was sensitive to the cost of the pump station and mentioned there may be some creative financing options to hold
some monies in escrow for ongoing maintenance. Discussion followed on the number of homes that could be gravity or low-pressure which led into
the discussion of gravity line to Maple Parkway. Kent had no issue feeding gravity sewer down to Maple Parkway, but believed it was over-ruled
previously by Conservation as the pipes would have to cross wetlands. Jack said the wetlands could be circumvented, that we would like to solve as
many issues at the same time as we can. Maple Parkway needs help, and with this project that could be accomplished. Paula asked Kent to do a
cost analysis, comparing the 2 options to see if it would be possible to help Maple Parkway which is in dire need of sewer and road repair.
Discussed the entry point at White Street & Mass Ave. John Godfrey spoke to the fact that they can't take on the road repair, but they could put in
the sewer and we could pave the road - win/win. Paula asked for a followup meeting once the cost analysis had been done. Kent will get back to
the Commission.
Lunenburg Village 40B - David Sanderson representing PSC was present to discuss the 40B and their peer review of issues with the project.
They originally had issue with lots of individual pumps and had recommended a pump station, but after listening to the previous topic, knew that that
may be an issue for the Town. Several issues present themselves: 1) pump station vs gravity pipes and 2) connection fees. Paula asked Jack to
speak regarding his concerns for the project. Jack had it clarified that these were single-family homes (not condos) and eventually the road would
become a public way, so there was no "association" to take over ongoing costs of maintaining a pump station. He also brought up the connection to
sewer at Piedmont and stated that they'd like to connect Pleasantview - again, a road in dire need of repair and sewer. Sewer was designed to be
brought to head of the road and Dave believed that they planned to bring sewer down Pleasantview. Paula asked that, at a minimum, they would
like to see a cost analysis to consider sewering Pleasantview at the same time. Dave stated, per the plan, 5 houses were to be connected to the
Piedmont connection, 6 to the Lesure Ave & 53 to Whalom Rd.. Jack added that Ramgren Road abuts the land and has the same topography as
Pleasantview. A copy of the plans were pulled out and looked over. Steve inquired why all homes could not be tied into gravity sewer and Jack
suggested ½ could go down Ramgren and ½ down Pleasantview, and not down Piedmont. Steve pointed out that easements are not permitted per
the bylaw. Paula asked that they look over our sewer bylaw and we have another meeting. We need to put together a list of issues, bring them
before the peer reviewers and have another meeting with Jack and the Commission, along with PSC. Question arose how long we had before a
decision would be made. Fran noted that it could be extended if the proponent requested such. Paula asked Dave to communicate their issues to
the ZBA. Jack also brought up the drainage and stormwater issues and discussed the issues to consider. Paula stated that the Selectmen and Kerry
need to do up a memo on the stormwater issues. Dave asked if the Commission had a response and Paula noted that we'd just received it that
evening, would need time to review and that we would put together a memo back to PSC of our issues.
===PAGE 2===
praise for Jay.
Bob Ebersole reminded Jay that the caucus was on Monday, March 15 and there is a total of 5 positions, 2 for 3 year terms, 2 for 2
year terms and 1 for 1 year term. Jack asked Carl if he was running for the Commission. Carl answered in the affirmative. Jay stated he was
interested in the one year term position. The Commission welcomed him and thanked him for his interest in serving.
Emerald Place - Barb stated that 34 permits were taken out and paid for, and reviewed the issue in the prior week with the developer wishing to
take out 144 bullding permits but only 34 sewer permits to connect. Paula reiterated that it is necessary to have a sewer permit in hand to obtain a
bullnerm a tell be ten ply. ned hat an applicant cannot obtain a building permit without an
approved septic system through the Board of Health and that this is the same thing. Jack thought that the only approval needed prior to building
permit being issued is to confirm that sewer is available. Paula asked that a motion be made that connection fees must be received prior to an
applicant receiving a building permit. Steve made the motion, Bob seconded. Discussion followed regarding the control we have in receiving
connection fees once a building permit is issued. Jack stated that he is present at every connection, even at Stone Farm or when each connection is
made at Emerald Place to ensure it is done correctly. Bob asked if we didn't do it prior to the building permit, when would we catch it. Jack stated
we would catch when occupancy permit was requested. Barb pointed out that in the package, she had updated both the Sewer Rules & Regulations
and the Connection Charge policy to review with the proposed change: An Application for Permit to Connect must be submitted, approved and
appropriate permittee paid before the Sewer Commission representative signs off on the Building Permit checklist, issued by the Building
Department. The Commission reviewed and Paula asked that the clause "for each unit to be constructed" be added. Commission also determined
that it only needed to be added to the Sewer Rules & Regulations/Section 7, and not the Connection Charge Policy. Paula asked for a vote to
approve the addition to the Rules & Regulations with the stated amendment. Vote was unanimous.
United Solutions -Barb noted that Jack had brought the United Solution package of information to Joe Jordan in Fitchburg for approval on 3/5 and
we had gotten an email back today from Joe that they are okay with the plan but request walk-through when manufacturing is being introduced.
Barb will advise Ed Zephir at United Solutions. Jack mentioned he had already spoken with Pat Slattery and conveyed the same message.
CMP-Paula stated that she had talked to Kevin Olson today and discussed the 2nd MEPA filing. Paula reviewed the events of the Notice of
Project Change filing that Wright Pierce did on the town's behalf for Jay, and that Wright Pierce had sent a letter requesting additional monies for
work done outside the original scope of work, including $4000 for the 2nd MEPA filing. Kevin agreed to subtract another 12%, which is their profit
amount, and they will do the 2nd MEPA filing. We will have to pay $4000 - 12% ($3520.00). Paula was concerned if we had money in Purchase of
Service for this amount, but Barb pointed out a portion of that was included in the money we raised from Retained Earnings at the Special Town
meeting in December 2009. Paula asked if there was a motion to approve a second MEPA filing. Steve made the motion, Carl seconded. Vote
taken was unanimous. Paula asked if everyone had reviewed the electronic version of the amended WMP and response to MEPA comments sent
to them earlier and if there were any issues or concerns. All agreed that no issues remained. Paula asked for a motion to tell Wright Pierce that they
can finalize the CWMP. Steve moved, Carl seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Barb will advise Kevin that he can go ahead and finalize the
CWMP and move forward with the second MEPA filing.
Lunenburg Village 40B - Barb asked to return to Lunenburg Village to request Weston & Sampson's aid in determining what the privilege fees for
the project would be. Paula pointed out, per the ZBA's draft decision received, that the developers of the 40B have agreed to pay the privilege fees
in addition to the connection fees. Barb noted also that the connection fee was transposed as $1670.00 and we need to let them know. The current
betterment bylaw was read aloud and major discussion followed on betterments and privilege fees, condos vs single family, extensions vs. 40B.
Bob E. pointed out that the $1,000,000 that we put aside at the time the betterments were assessed applies to those parcels having current access
to the sewer and we can collect no more than that amount on the development of those properties. Properties, such as those Bob Proctor is
proposing, were not on the original line so would not be subject to that cap since those properties were not originally assessed a betterment. Fran
confirmed that Lunenburg Village would be a privilege fee, not a betterment, since the development was above the use originally assessed, and that
Bob Proctor's homes would also get a privilege fee, due to the fact those properties were never assessed a betterment. Discussion continued that
the Commission needs to devise a formula and asked Fran Y. of Weston & Sampson if his firm could help the Commission to determine formulas
for each of these types of situations. Paula asked if Fran could find out what other towns that they work with have done. Paula stressed that what
we do now will affect many other hookups in the future and we need to have a well thought-out plan.
Budget discussion - Paula asked Fran what they should expect by way of IMA costs for FY11 and Fran was unsure this would be resolved in time
to be considered in setting up the FY11 budget. There is still another conversation with Joe and they will be sending Fitchburg a list of issues. When
===PAGE 3===
just received, but it was inconclusive. In her conversation with Mike Sauvageau, Building Inspector, he stated that the plan still shows that 5 lots are
possible. Plus, it was not an approved plan, containing no signatures by the Planning Board.
Sewer by-law - Paula reviewed the recent activity regarding the Sewer bylaw, passed at Town Meeting last year which went before Special
Legislation in an edited form. It became evident that the wrong draft was submitted to the legislation for approval. House counsel has since
approved of the changes and it will go before the House for vote again. Paula reviewed for Fran and Jay that the bylaw limits capacity to 330 gpd
(or 1 unit) for undeveloped lots and is based on available capacity. Paula stated that the legal fees from this recent flurry of activity might be of good
size, both with her conversations with Jeanne McKnight, but also Jeanne's time spent on the legislation and with house counsel, Joanne Campo.
Stone Farm - Barb advised the Commission that a letter was sent to Atty. Ken Gurge who was not actually invoking a formal public records request.
It is still on an informal basis for now. In the letter, Barb did state that they may have to pay for copying and labor if it is necessary.
Meadowwoods - Barb reported that Karen had not yet heard from Jim Lavin to confirm whether the costs of the FD's at Mass1 would be covered
by the project. Barb also mentioned to Jack that the Commission had hoped that Weston & Sampson could look at the specifications that Hall Pump
was proposing to ensure that it will be a design to maximize the benefits for the pump station. Fran said he and Jack could talk offline. Jack also
mentioned that with the recent weather the heavy rains had tripled the flow through the flow meters. The Commission discussed with Jack & Fran
what tests can be performed to determine the problem areas. Also discussed was the potential I/l in Leominster from the residents who never
swapped out their old clay pipes from the previous system for the PVC piping.
Administrative Matters
Barb will be away for the meeting on the 14th. Paula asked if we should re-schedule. Bob stated that he would take notes. They will discuss at the
next meeting if the meeting on the 14th will take place.
Barb reminded those present of the Town Caucus on 3/15, and discussed how the notice about the Commission was on our website and also the
Town's home page. Carl confirmed he was running, as did Jay Simeone. All 3 plan to attend the Caucus.
Barb noted that the Sewer Project application form originated by the Planning Board was in their package to review and discuss at the next meeting.
Barb asked about the minutes of 2/23 which were sent to the Commission for review 3/8. Not enough members had read them, so they were tabled
until the meeting on 3/25.
Barb advised the Commission that the principal on the account at Leominster-Shirley Leominster-Shirley Rd account/S&E Specialty Polymers had been paid and
the interest forgiven. Payment was received on 3/8.
Flow meter readings had been entered onto spreadsheets and were provided to the Commission and Jack. Barb will send them to Fran
electronically.
Activity reports for 9/1-3/8/10 were in the package for review by the Commission in advance of the budget discussion at the next meeting.
Koppelman & Paige invoice was approved for payment.
Bob brought up that he had spoken with Jeff Ugalde regarding Municipal Lien Certificates (MC's) and that they will include sewer usage and
betterment amounts, and will refer people to call the Sewer Department for final readings. Barb handed out a copy of a current MLC.
Motion to adjourn was made by Bob, seconded by Steve, and the motion to adjourn passed unanimously. Meeting was adjourned at 9:53 pm
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Letebvre, Business Manager for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
