===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Village 40B- Commission discussed whether to require the developer to provide backup generators for the E-one pumps and
determined that it was not necessary. Paula asked for the motion NOT to require backup generators, Bob so moved, Steve seconded. Vote
taken was unanimous. Paula sent Dan Hill, attorney for the ZBA, an email as they were meeting this evening at Town Hall to discuss the 40B and
advised him of their decision.
Fitchburg IMA - Commission continued the discussion from the workshop of sections of the IMA that Weston & Sampson had adjusted. Discussed
that the total flow estimated in 2026 to Fitchburg per the CMP is 251,800gpd. I/l charge from previous IMA was removed and replaced with
"excessive" language. Fran reviewed the 1.65 surcharge, metered flow, and getting a copy of the Fitchburg's budget currently and then annually.
Fran will provide Barb the wording to send a letter to Joe requesting the budget information. Paula asked when the Selectmen should be involved
and Fran recommended that it be before we go to Joe Jordan. Fran pointed out it should be in executive session as a contract negotiation and not a
workshop. Agreed to do it at 6pm before the next meeting 5/25, if the Selectmen are agreeable. Steve said it should be a de-briefing since they
have signatory authority. Barb needed to confirm that it would be an executive session, not a workshop. Fran confirmed that, even if we hadn't
received anything budget-wise from Joe Jordan, that we would go ahead with the meeting. All agreed and determined to discuss moving ahead with
the IMA if the budget information is not received with the Selectmen.
Dave MacDonald (candidate for election to the Sewer Commission) asked to revisit Section 16, connection charges and the timing for payment to
Fitchburg. He would like to recommend that we pay Fitchburg at the issuance of the certificate of occupancy, otherwise we'd possibly be paying a
year before the connection. Point was raised that not all connections are for new construction. All agreed that we would change it to when the
sewer Certificate of Completion was generated. For a project the size of Emerald Place, we could issue a blanket certificate of completion for the
project. Commission discussed a cap on Capital Costs, that it appears in the Leominster IMA, but not Fitchburg, but we will have the John Fitch
Highway cost instead
Connection charge definition - The commission was provided a copy of the memo to Jim Lavin of (RD-Rural Development) containing description
of the charge, backing out the labor that Fran had helped us develop. Memo spells out the minimum connection charge of $1760 could be reduced
by $100 for the inspection fee & $10 for the permit fee as the only labor costs in the connection charge, leaving $1650 per unit that we expect for
reimbursement. Barb had not been able to confirm with Karen that Jim had received it and what the feedback is. Fran has more ideas if they require
more info, but his belief is that this will be sufficient.
Sewer extension policy - Fran spoke in regards to the request from Bob Proctor to extend sewer up for 4 homeowners. In Fran's experience, he
knows of no other town that allows people to do this. Only 2 ways sewers are extended is 1) town does it, bettering properties, getting portion of
the capital costs, project approved at Town Meeting, and 2) developer comes in, extending sewer to get up to their property, and along the way there
might be people to tie in. That's it - no other way. Too complex to do it for a handful of people - who's in, who's not, paving, minimum area,
reimbursement, etc. Bob asked about the 40B with Pleasantview, where we agreed to waive fees on affordable units if they installed sewer on
Pleasantview, and confirmed with Fran that that is okay to do this. We can charge the people on Pleasantvew, and it is up to us to form a policy for
where we want to extend it and under what conditions the DPW Director stipulates. Fran clarified that the word betterment is only used when the
town builds a sewer. With a private developer, it's a separate fee and you should have a separate agreement, noting everything you expect him to
do and pay. Paula pointed out we can't as this is a 40b.
Lunenburg Village - Paula asked to return quickly to Lunenburg Village and noted their correspondence states that we require lines to be outside
public way and that is not what was voted, so Paula sent them an email for their hearing. Bob raised concern that it says to extend sewer to end of
Pleasantview Ave. and doesn't specify which end in the Comprehensive Permit decision provided by Dan Hill today. It should state extend sewer
service on Pleasantview to its terminus at Graham St including laterals to all abutting properties. It was noted that it does appear in Section J5, but
nothing about grading in road which was #4 of our memo of 4/28/10 to the ZBA. Paula sent Dan an email of our issues including that Pleasantview
needs to be reclaimed & graded.
Sewer extension policy - Bob pointed out that we have an extension policy in place that states that the developer would present us with plans that
the DPW would have to approve, and the developer would have a list of requirements to fulfill. Bob Proctor has 2 people that wanted to tie in and
would pay to install the line. Commission discussed what happens for those that don't want to tie in, and Jack stated that laterals still need to be
installed and discussion followed on whether or not they are obligated to pay the privilege fee and the different types of fees. The 40B was assessed
a Compensate paws assessed a betterment and now the use is increased. The other privilege fee is up to the max of last
etterment assessment for the privilege of connecting to the sewer. Bob Proctor's situation would be the latter. Jack asked about bonding for the
b. Steve noted that if we make it too expensive we won't increase the customer base unless it is a development. Paula pointed out that we create
a sewer service area to try and stop these miscellaneous extensions, and to do planned growth of the sewer system. Anyone wanting an extension
will have to abide by the extension policy rules and pay a fee. Commission needs to determine a formula for that fee. Fran noted that the
assessment bylaw was fashioned after Chelmsford's policy which Weston & Sampson had developed and encompassed 2 costs. If a developer is
===PAGE 2===
could be charged a privilege fee. Steve had issue that the 4 guys who put the money up getting charged the same amount as those on the street
that didn't pay anything to lay the sewer line down. Alternative is to come to Town meeting and request a project, and betterments, and they would
need 2/3 of the people on the street to agree. Steve reminded those present about Summer Street, where one property owner paid $48000 to bring
the sewer up the street, with no help from abutters, and after the line was in, the abutter signed up with no cost to himself and that it isn't right. Paula
noted that trying to charge different percentages for people, depending on whether they paid to run the line or not, is too confusing. Bob said
everyone that is going to connect has to pay a sewer privilege fee and that is why it is a percent, but that it won't be $11,551 because they had to
pay the cost of laying additional line. Bob noted we had 40% discussed and 60% - how about making it a 50% privilege fee? Paula asked if there
was a motion. Bob made the motion that we establish a privilege fee of 50% of the prior betterment amount of $11,551.47 for all private
sewer extensions of the sewer line, payable at the time of connection. Steve seconded for the sake of discussion. Steve maintains that 50% is
too high. Paula reiterated that they couldn't even connect to sewer if we hadn't put in the system. Bob stated that what they are doing is they are
buying into the system which says they are going to pay for prior construction which then helps the overall future capital structure which will help
them and the existing owners. It is equity for the existing owners to say 'you've already paid into the system'. Carl said he could agree to 50% and
noted that it was 40% and the town meeting raised it up to 100%. Paula asked if we were ready to vote. Vote taken. 4 were for, 1 against. Bob
asked where this notation of percentage would be noted? Paula suggested we draft a policy for private extensions, and Barb pointed that we have a
sewer extension policy. Bob read from current extension policy, page 2 of 3 that says all extensions would be assessed a privilege fee to be
determined by the Sewer Commission, consistent with the sewer assessment bylaw. It was determined that we would add to Section 5 and say "as
of this date, the Sewer Commission voted to make it 50% of the last betterment amount:"
Pleasantview was brought up again for clarification. Per Paula, we will be charging the people along Pleasantview the 50%. Bob said that we
waived certain fees within the 40B as a mitigation measure. All agreed that the fee would be 50% to everyone on Pleasantview. Every
neighborhood will be different and at least a policy is established. Discussed that it can be changed later. So Paula confirmed 50% and if Bob
Proctor comes in with properties that will have laterals to be installed, the Commission will determine how many properties affected and each will get
a privilege fee and we will send them a notice of assessment of privilege fee - if not paid within a certain period, we will have to record something at
the Registry. We can't bill until connection since the privilege fee is payable at the time of connection. A recorded lien will just protect us for
assessing a sewer privilege fee, payable at the time of connection, when new owners are involved. We will need to talk to counsel.
Steve mentioned Jack White and Whites Woods and that he'd never paid a thing. He is extending the sewer and paying for it, and Bob confirmed he
will have to pay $5500 per unit. We need to let planning board know, building inspector, etc. that this impacts "changes of use". We do need to
check with counsel first. Fran reaffirmed that you need to do liens to prevent it from being missed in the future. Carl pointed out, in the interest of full
disclosure, we need to make sure everyone on a proposed sewer extension is aware that there will be a lien. If there is a line in front of your home,
meeting with the Selectmen on the 25'h. Jay will be gone 5/29-6/5.
I/I - Steve asked Jack for update on the I/l. Jack stated that this week the DPW is back on full duty since furlough. They had a meeting with Weston
& Sampson and have started researching flow meters. Step 1. They will be talking with the schools -- all is starting this week. Bob asked Barb to
check with Marion for the Walmart plans and their drainage plans. Paula said the Planning board should have all the drainage calculations.
Neither Steve nor Jack thought it likely that they are draining into the sewer, but Bob wants to go with the big possibilities first. Need to look at all big
oot areas: schools, I win City Baptist, Crossroads Plaza, etc. that may have inadvertently hooked up the pipe to sewer. Jack said it was unlikely
ut so is a new sewer system to have an l/i issue. Everything was camera-ed, pressure-tested when it was built. Bob confirmed it should all be PVC
pipe? Paula noted except for an area in Whalom. Bob noted his house on 94 Main had cast iron pipe from the house to 15' from the street. Not just
Whalom that may have old pipes. Is it in the regulations to require PVC? If not, it needs to be there. Per Dave, building code updated and it is
supposed to be the law as of June to bring PVC up to the meter on the house. Barb & Paula confirmed that it is not yet in the rules & regulations.
Bob made the motion that we amend the appropriate section of the Sewer Rules & Regulations to require that when a house is connected
to the sewer that PVC pipe is installed from the street to the plane of the foundation of the house. Steve seconded. Vote taken was
===PAGE 3===
Parkway, reconstruct the road to the point of pavement, bring down White Street and connect at 2A. Bob confirmed we would get $5500 per
property along White Street. Per Jack, it is 850' as opposed to 750' on Pleasantview. Steve asked for the cost analysis vs pump station. Jack said
that Kent wanted to run sewer down Maple Pkwy years ago. We are happy to have it. It is more flow to Fitchburg and Bob Bowen will likely have
Sewer by-law -Barb asked Paula if she had had any further communication with Jeanne on the House Rule? Hearing was 3/9 -Paula has not
heard anything more on it. We'll have to follow up with Kerry or Laura on it.
419 Sunnyhill Rd -Bill Drumm has conversed with Mike S. on numerable occasions regarding his assessment of 5 units for 5 buildable lots. Mike
has looked at a plan and he and Matt Morrow (Conservation) went out to inspect wetlands on 4/27. Mike has no question that there are at least 5
lots. No change to the decision to assess 5 units.
Emerald Place - they have paid for an additional 62 units for approximately $109,000. Quick discussion on FinCom's recommendation to put
connection fees into a fund for future capital expenses. Paula also discussed the betterment fund issue raised by the Mass DOR. Fran questioned
it and when the enterprise fund was voted in. Bob asked if it was prior to the sewer debt? Paula affirmed. Bob stated that they did temporary
borrowing for several years. Fran questioned whether it has to be separate or not. Barb will send him a copy of the letter. Fran said at some time
down the road we might want to have someone attend a course on Enterprise Funds run by Mark Abrams. Cost is $199.00.
VFD Mass 1- Barb noted the memo for the connection charge has been discussed, as it pertained to the makeup of the connection charge.
At ear to Samson on the type VD - Fran said it was all under control.. We just need an invoice. Then
we'll just be waiting for Jim Lavin. Jack wants to get the money in hand before ordering the device. Jack and Barb can figure out the timing.
Stone Farm - Barb received a check for $5280 for the 3 outstanding connection permits and Atty. Ken Gurge had picked up the copies of the
documents he had requested. There has been no further word about challenging the betterment. Stone Farm is still investigating. Barb provided
requested copies of documents 5/10 and voucher for labor & printing
Administrative Matters
• Commitment/Warrant from April billing was signed. April billing did go out today, May 12, with the rate increase insert.
• Mr. Kenny from Meadowwoods had come to the meeting April 14 to get his invoice waived, but in the April billing there was usage so
he was billed. We will communicate and let him know that if he had it disconnected and there was no usage, that he wouldn't be billed
in the next billing.
• Paula said she would be back in to work on the billing system
• Weston & Sampson invoice was signed by Paula
Bob wanted to state before meeting was adjourned and acknowledge the work of Steve deBettencourt & Paula Bertram for their years of service on
the Sewer Commission. Thank you.
Motion to adjourn was made by Bob, seconded by Steve, and the motion to adjourn passed unanimously. Meeting was adjourned at
9:14 pm. Next meeting is May 25 at the Town Hall.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
