===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Weston & Sampson - Discussion on the proposal received January 19 and presented to the Board of Selectmen. Paula invited the Selectmen to
come to our meeting with Fran from W&S on 2/10. We will still have a separate workshop with W&S and the Board of Selectmen at a future date.
Paula asked for a motion to accept the Weston & Sampson proposal, Steve moved, Carl seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
Tri-Town - All members had received a copy of the agreement between Great Bridge and the City of Fitchburg. Barb noted that the plan had been
received and would be in the office if anyone wanted to review it. The Commission received a copy of Jim Garff's memo to the Building Inspector
regarding the use of E-one pumps and Barb was asked to make sure the Planning Board receives a copy.
Drumm property - Discussion of the status of the compensatory privilege fee document to be recorded as a lien against 419 Sunnyhill Rd. Barb
had heard through the Building Inspector that an engineer contracted by Drumm would submit that there was only 3 possible building lots. No plan
indicating this was received as of yet. Bob and Barb will work on the recording of the document if an abatement application is not received within the
required 30 days.
Lunenburg Water Dept. - Commissioners discussed the recent rate hike. Barb noted that we receive minimum charge bills and our bills went from
$52.50 to $60.00 (14.23% increase) but not a big impact to the budget. Also discussed was a quote through the Water Dept. from their software
provider for 3 hours at $140/hr to work on the file they send to us for billing to include usages. Issue, beyond the cost, is with the change to the file
input to cause Paula to have to re-work the new program. Put on hold for discussion later. Paula would prefer to work on getting Munis input
automated before she leaves the Commission in May.
Dietrich Industries building reuse - Discussed United Solutions proposal as a storage facility for their plastics manufacturing facility in Leominster.
Paula wants the Board of Health to look at the floor plan and get an estimate of the Title V usage. Also wants the Planning Board and the principals
aware that, in the case of a change of use, the Sewer Commission must be apprised and give approval, and that Fitchburg will also need to approve
Pleasantview Ave. Reviewed a resident's email to Jack Rodriquenz asking for sewer to be brought up Pleasantview Ave. and discussed that a
professional engineer would need to review what is needed for that road. Barb is to respond to resident, referencing the CWMP, with the estimated
cost of $24 - 27,000 and their need to employ a professional engineer. Bob reiterated that, in the Summer Street improvements being reviewed, the
proposal to extend sewer up Pleasantview should be included. The proposed 40B, Lunenburg Village, was also brought up and it was re-stated that
the Commission has yet to receive a new plan. Pleasantview could also be considered in the proposed design of that development and the laying of
the sewers.
CWMP -email had been sent to Kevin with our issues, including the 2nd MEPA filing and we are awaiting Wright Pierce's response.
Highfields Village -Kent Oldfield had contacted Barb to request an informal meeting with Paula. When memo was received, it was learned that
Kent would be accompanied by 3 other principals. Steve agreed to attend with Paula, as long as it was made clear that this was an informal meeting
to discuss concerns, and that Paula and Steve would bring these back to discuss with the full Commission. Barb to get a meeting date.
Pump stations - Paula stated that we haven't heard back from Kerry yet as to the funding of the FD's through the Meadowwoods grant. Also,
Barb reported that Mass 2 pump was operational again after being repaired.
Sewer by-law - Paula will contact town counsel to check on where the bylaw stands.
Project Review Fee & Policy - Paula reviewed what was presented at the Public Hearing on January 13 and advised that the fee and policy had
been formally adopted as of January 13, 2010. With this policy, once a proposed plan for development is received, a fee would be collected and
deposited in a special account. From this money on account, the Commission would be able to pay the costs for a professional engineer to review
the plans on behalf of the Sewer Commission.
===PAGE 2===
Motion to adjourn was made by Steve, seconded by Carl, and the motion to adjourn passed unanimously. Meeting was adjourned at 7:40 pm
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre, Business Manager for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
