===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
inspections of grease traps. Butch asked why Nashoba Board of Health needed to be involved in inspections and Bob pointed out that the Nashoba Board of
Health is the local Board's agent. Jack thinks he can get all the inspections done in 6-7 days, putting in an hour or so a day.
CONSENT AGENDA -
Weston & Sampson - we are still awaiting the Scope of Work for FY11 from Steve Pederson. Per Steve 9/24, he will have it to us by 10/7.
Highfields - Planning Board granted them an Extension Request through 12/31/10. Barb & Bob will work together on determining the process for Tri-Party
accounts. Once determined, we will obtain a check from Kent to contract with Weston & Sampson for their review.
Betterment Fund changes - per Karen Brochu, Town Accountant, the Betterment Fund needs to be combined with the Enterprise Fund for FY12. Barb
sent Fran Y of Weston & Sampson an email to confirm his prior statement that he didn't believe the Commission should need to do this at this point. Fran
responded that he would not question the DOR and plan to combine the accounts for FY12.
DISCUSSION WITH DPW DIRECTOR
I/l / Flow meters status -Jack stated that Steve Pederson is planning to be in town on Monday, 10/4 to install the temporary meters on Graham Street.
Discussion followed that per the water usage on the last billing the figure should be around 70,000 gpd, yet the current permanent meter shows around
400,000, indicating a definite problem with the meter or calibration. Jack also stated that Roger Brooks (Leominster) called again and plans to send the town
a letter stating his wish to go entirely by the meter readings, instead of the current method of water usage. Jay asked Jack specifics about what Weston &
Sampson will be doing, but Jack deferred answering until Steve P. comes out next week when he will knows more. Meter definitely needs to be re-
calibrated. Roger Brooks understands that we didn't use the meter at first because there was not enough flow, but now it needs to be done. Bob brought up •
educating the homeowners about hooking up sump pumps. Barb mentioned that she had called Joe Jordan (Fitchburg) for the law regarding sump pumps
and he had not responded. Jack said Roger Brooks would know the law regarding hooking up sump pumps to the sewer lines. Also, we could check with
NEWCC, producer of the Fat Free sewer brochure, if there is a similar one regarding sump pumps to put in with the bills. As for cycling of pumps and
understanding flow, Barb asked to wait that the Commission wait on Weston & Sampson - Corey needs to get the specifications on each pump to Weston &
Sampson before they can respond to the question.
GENERAL DISCUSSION
Town's Master Plan - Barb had provided clips from the Town Report & CWMP in order to help compile the Mission Statement for the Commission. Bob
asked for volunteers to write the script and it was determined that Bob & Barb would collaborate on a response. Marion had asked if the Commission
foresaw any need for a zoning bylaw change, and no one did. Jay asked about the E-one pump regulations but it was determined that the rightful place for
them would be more likely the Sewer regulations, not the Master Plan. We discussed that the CWMP is really our Master Plan. Barb brought up Baker
Station area and how several people have come in to discuss the need in that area. Discussion followed on the cost of betterments in CWMP scaring off
potential customers. Item for a future agenda is to hold a hearing on future sewer development and invite residents to come in.
Emerald Place modification - Jack reviewed the drawing submitted by Whitman & Bingham. At first, he didn't think the modification had any impact but
upon further review, he determined that they are adding a new connection point. We want to invite them to come in to the next meeting, go over the prior
plan, the current plan and the impact of the change. Barb to advise Marion Benson, Planning Director, of the change and the request for Emerald Place to
attend a meeting.
CWMP - Notice of Project Change has been received and posted at 3 public depositories. Barb pointed out that there had not been much discussion
generated from the posting, except that Marion Benson of the Planning Board was disappointed that reference to a Growth Management District on Chase
Rd had been removed from the CWMP.
GIS -Barb reviewed that the Commission had received information from Jay on PeopleGIS for Concord, and that she had asked for a comparison from
Cartographics as to the offerings of People GIS vs Cartographic's ArcView. She had also asked for information from Nancy Strom as to the cost of the
computer infrastructure for such an undertaking to which she had not had a response.
Fitchburg IMA - Project headings from Fitchburg's budget had been received and forwarded to Bob who is questioning the projects and whether they
should be our cost. We are gathering more information. There was a quick discussion on the rate structure and how it was devised. One possible
consideration is that Fitchburg give up the administrative fee for Lunenburg to take on Tri-Town.
Special Town Meeting - Barb stated that we need to submit 2 warrant articles for placeholders - revising the Sewer District and authorization to place
delinquencies on the tax bills by the Town accepting Sections 16A-Fin Chapter 83. Bob inquired as to the other charges and organizations affected by
Sections 16A-F.
Pool policy was reviewed. A motion was made by Butch Bilotta to accept the policy, seconded by Dave, vote taken was unanimous.
Septic System Repair Fund - Bob reviewed that this fund, coming from left over cash from the Board of Health's grant, may be used to help the Eagle
House or target grease traps in the schools.
Subcommittee report - no progress
===PAGE 2===
Barb Lelebre for the Lynenburg Sewer Commission
