===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Business Manager, Steve DeBettencourt
Bob formally opened the meeting at 7:04 pm.
CONSENT AGENDA
Hollis Hills - - moved to General Discussion
I/l - moved to General Discussion
Emerald Place modification - moved to General Discussion
Budget FY11 - Commission reviewed the YTD expenses for FY11
back next meeting 8/31. Wright Pierce had been hoping to submit to MEPA on 8/16, but will have to wait to give Commission time to review. Once SC
approves, KS must sign 3 copies and get to Boston- next possible date was 8/31 - next submittal is 9/16. Commission provided with screen prints of CMP
on our website that had been updated with Phase IV and sewer map.
Lunenburg Village - Barb advised Commission that she had emailed Don Bowen 7/20 and again 8/5 for update, as to whether and what was recorded on
the 40B, to know whether we will need to record liens. Per Don Bowen, the decision had not yet been recorded.
Highfields Village -Barb advised Kent Oldfield of the estimate of $2500 for peer review 8/5. We will need set up escrow triparty account and do up
agreement with Weston & Sampson. Kent had sent letter to Planning Board requesting extension from Planning Board. Per Marion, Planning Board needs
letter from SC discussing the request and subsequent need for Highfields extension
NDES permit-Barb advised Commission that she had emailed Kevin Olson on 7/28 to review electronic copy of NDES permit and advise the
Commission as to the implications. She forwarded electronic copy of the permit to Wright Pierce on 8/5, cc'g SC.
Fitchburg IMA - Barb advised Commission that she had called Joe Jordan 8/5 on the status of the budget information - he was hoping to have something,
probably not everything we asked for in the letter of May 18, before the meeting on the 11th. However, he is on vacation this week and nothing was received.
Billing Averages worksheet - Commission was provided the Billing averages from the latest billing for Q1 FY11.
2009 Town Report -Commission advised that the 2009 Town Report is available online, but not yet available in print per Selectmen's office 8/11.
GENERAL DISCUSSION
Grease traps-Bob spoke with Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent of Schools, after the last meeting to advise her that it is a focus items for the Sewer
Commission this year. She did confirm that the grease traps are cleaned annually at end of school year and that John Londa had discussed the issue with
her. Bob & Loxi discussed that it was the Commission's understanding from multiple sources that the frequency will be determined upon condition of grease
traps, and could possibly need to be weekly. However, with diligence, these cleanings may negate need to install outside trap. Bob pointed out that in
regards to the regionalization discussion on the table, nothing will happen for over 3 years and we cannot wait if an investment is necessary. Discussion
followed as to the responsible party to do the cleaning. Butch asked can we count on their word that they've been cleaned? Bob stated that it should be part
of the food inspection by the Board of Health - and that the first time it is opened, that the Health agent should be present. Dave pointed out that in
shrewsbury, inspection is done once a month. Steve deBettencourt interjected that the Board of Health is responsible for interior traps. Bob presented the
general question on Centre Pizza - where is the grease trap (used to have a tight tank) and also same question of Village Grill, Hadwen's Market (added
meat counter), Congregational church, United Parish - both have kitchens, the Lunch Box, Bangkok Hill, Conrad's. There should be communication
between the Sewer Commission and Board of Health. We need to inventory all non-residential buildings with kitchens tied into sewer. Bob is planning to
attend the next Board of Health meeting. Dave stated he will check the laws. Bob said he is doing all this so we can possibly save the Town $30,000 just by
doing timely inspections. Steve D. asked if Weston & Sampson had done any further work. Bob stated that they are planning to come in for a workshop on
8/31. Steve handed out a design of a grease trap from Sani-Tank in Fitchburg which goes for about $5000, a much simpler design than Weston & Sampson
had presented for the high school, and doesn't have to be 5 in depth. Bob stated that it may be a capacity issue - need to identify where it is coming from
and the storage required. Bob stated that we need to identify the possible sources before spending money and the other properties that need to be checked
out - Public Safety, Trudies, Eagle House, all churches, the Harley House. Discussion followed that a grease tank installation at the high school may have
to be funded through Capital planning.
Pool policy - Barb noted the receipt of a letter from a resident at 27 Lesure Ave requesting adjustment for the filling of his pool, and that the office had
received a 2nd request by phone for 862 Mass Ave. Discussion followed and it was determined that we would come up with an application that a resident
would need to complete to fully fill a pool (we would not adjust for topping off a pool). They would state the size of the pool, and we would waive that
portion of the sewer bill, but the application must be received at least 7 days prior to the filling. We need to get a list of the pools and bring a draft application
to the next meeting. We could then send a notice out to all pool owners of the new process for an adjustment. Barb asked what to do with the current
requests received? We need to figure out the size of the pool and the associated credit due. 27 Lesure was 11,000 gals. (or 1467cf) or about $118. We'll re-
visit at next meeting.
27 Whalom Rd - Barb had received a letter from the resident taking issue with the back-billing from 2006 for usage. Discussion followed that the resident
was aware she was hooked into sewer and would know that there was a cost to that. Resident owes $1600 going back to when she connected, adding $400
to 4 quarterly bills, in addition to actual current usage. Bob wants to check if we can legally back-bill. Barb will verify that she was billed the full amount. She
===PAGE 2===
antonio tease we ending send Pleasantview. Bob asked for a motion to bill the
property owners the privilege fee at the time the extension is completed, and give them 10 years to pay it off, and that such extension will require 2/3 vote of
the affected property owners. Butch so moved, Carl seconded. Discussion continued and decided that we would insert the language from Section 2 of the
Sewer bylaw stating "prior to the initiation of a Sewer Extension project in any Sewer Service Zone as identified on the Sewer Service Area Map, and prior to
submitting a Sewer Extension application to the Sewer Commission, a petition must be received indicating that 2/3 of the affected property owners approve
of the extension", and that once the extension is completed, the affected property owners will receive a bill for the privilege fee, which they can determine
can be apportioned over 10 years."
. Vote was taken and unanimous. Barb will send a memo to the Planning Board regarding the 2/3 vote required for any
sewer extensions.
Capital Planning - question brought forward as to why we must submit, if we are not incuded in the general Capital Planning process. Bob stated Kerry and
the lown need to know long-range plans. In the planning, we should include 1) grease traps - Jack to talk to John Londa on grease traps. Depreciation
was discussed and a municipal method of accounting, which uses a stabilization fund instead. Bob stated that 5% of our budget should be slated for capital
improvements. Request was made again to have Karen Brochu attend our meeting. Dave asked about the portable meters that have been discussed for I/l
remediation. Sewer truck purchase was put out for discussion and whether the truck is leased. Next time Jack comes to a meeting, we need to talk with him
about capital improvements. Barb raised the possibility of hiring a billing service - currently folding and stuffing over 400 invoices. Whether the Water Dept
could receive a stipend for producing our sewer bills at the same time was raised as a possibility. Barb brought up the possibility of the investment of
contracting with Cartographics, who already administer the Town's maps, to install GIS for the Sewer Department and Commission agreed that they would
like to have him come present to the Commission at our next meeting. Barb will contact Cartographics to request they attend.
40B's - Commission reviewed Jeanne McKnight's response to the question from the meeting of 7/14 as to whether our bylaw can protect us from 40B's
outside of district.- Jeanne's response was determined to be too vague to provide a definitive answer to the question.
Whalom Mobile Park - Barb had produced a spreadsheet showing a comparison of 2 different billing methods - billing for the entire water usage or per
account (as is currently done) It behooves the enterprise to continue billing as we do, and as such, no change will be made.
Hollis Hills - Bob reviewed the history that the ZBA had originally disapproved the 40B and the developers appeal. Commission reviewed Dan Hill
Appellee's Supplemental Opposition to Hollis Hills' Motion for Enforcement and Bob's Affidavit that was received 7/29/10
Emerald Place modification - continuation of hearing was held 8/9 and modification has passed. Per Bob, they are not changing the sewer design. There
is no affect to the Commission or to flows. The number of units was actually reduced from 240 to 238. Barb restated that the principals are aware that they
will need to attend a Sewer Commission meeting to present the modifications and obtain the Sewer Commission's approval. Steve wants to have confirm
the direction of the sewer flows and whether that has changed.
/ - Dave MacDonald reviewed his tour taken with Jack Rodriquenz around town and the handout he had done up as a result of that tour. They discussed
I/l, roof runoff, drain placements, retention ponds. Barb will contact Marion Benson about the retention pond in front of Hannaford and its need for better
maintenance. Bob pointed out that with the NPDES permit, we will need to document everything we do to remedy I/l issues. Barb will start a log. Dave also
produced a brochure from the Lunenburg Water Department and the concern of the drawdown of Hickory Hills, and the potential for further issues. Bob also
wants to talk with Jack about the school roof drains and where all the water is going. Steve brought up the timing that this is when we should be checking
how many times the pumps are recycling. Jay questioned whether the pump stations had flow meters installed. Barb has data from the Unitil bills she can
Administrative Matters
Commitments for Q1 billing $86,231.10, and final commitment on FY10 adjustments $578.81 were signed.
Work session with Weston & Sampson was confirmed for 8/31 at 6pm.
Irrigation meter posting to be put up on website today was reviewed.
Delinquent town accounts are being taken care of by the Town Accountant. Interest will be forgiven, as it is for all town accounts.
ZBA hearing tonight-Carl Flinkstrom -Barb pointed out that there was a ZBA hearing at the Town Hall this evening for the proposed veterinary clinic
across from Twin city. The Commission will have to review the plans as it is a change of use.
Executive session minutes of 6/29 were reviewed. Butch made the motion to approve the minutes, Jay seconded, vote taken was unanimous.
Marketing of Town Sewer - Dave pointed out we could do a much better job at promoting connecting to sewer. The website could be vastly improved, and
we could do a media blitz. Consider even sending a coupon to connect whenever a home is purchased like Welcome Wagon.
Motion to adjourn was made by Butch seconded by Jay, and the motion to adjourn passed unanimously. Meeting was adjourned at
9:57 pm. Next meeting is August 31 at the Town Hall.
Respectfully submitted,
Tepe
Barb Lefebvre for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
