===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Carl introduced Steve Pederson from Weston & Sampson regarding the l/l Spring project - Steve P. provided recap on the flushing
of sediment from Mass Ave and the installation of permanent & temporary meters on 3/17 & 3/18. He noted that they had installed
the 3rd permanent meter on Summer St. which was not previously metered, and now all 3 permanent meters are up and running.
Also, 3 temporary meters were installed - one at Leominster Rd, one at Whalom Rd & one at Electric Ave. As of 3/21 the 10 week
monitoring program is in effect with the temporary meters coming out at the end of May. Steve noted that spring is a good time to
have the meters in the ground to watch infiltration and inflow. Steve had provided pictures of the 6 installations by email. Our
technician, Corey Dowd, was also present at the meter installations. Flow Assessment will come out once a week to go into the
manholes to download the data on the temporary meters. Permanent meters are hooked to their website so they have constant
feedback on those. Steve talked about the maintenance going forward, that it is most important in protecting the Town's investment
and getting good data. Weston & Sampson will be providing the meter manuals and alot can be done by the town staff, but he also
recommends having Flow Assessment come in once a year. They will attend our 4/26 meeting to review ongoing maintenance and
reporting options. Since the meters will read until the end of May, Weston & Sampson plans to have the data available in June,
where the extraneous flows are and their recommendations. Dave added that he was present at the installations and thanked Steve
and Weston & Sampson for making our deadlines. The crews were professional, Lunenburg Police directed traffic, and all went
smoothly. Carl re-stated the purpose of the project for television audience, that there was extra flow coming into system and it is our
responsiblity to have the system in good repair. If infiltration or inflow are present, we need to get a handle on it, and that we had
strategically placed meters around system to determine where extra flow is coming into the system. It is extremely important and the
Commission has been talking about this project for long time. Carl also noted that we had made changes last minute and Weston &
Sampson rose to the challenge. Permanent meters were installed where flow enters Leominster & Fitchburg. Steve noted that they
are already gathering data and are getting good data. Steve added another positive point to this project is that they installed solar
panels at 2 of the sites, and rechargeable batteries, and that may save the Town money on electricity. It was not economically
feasible to install solar at Summer St. but may be possible in the future. Steve reiterated that he and the representative from Flow
Assessment will be there for our meeting on the 26th. Dave also mentioned that Weston & Sampson came in under budget. Dave
asked that the photos Steve provided be added to our website. Carl opened it up for Public Comment. Steve deBettencourt noted
that it seems we were isolating the Whalom Rd area, but what about the 9 miles of pipe on the other side of Rt. 13? Steve P.
showed Steve D. where the temporary meters were installed and that the placement covers that area as well.
Carl asked if there were any comments on the items on the Consent Agenda. Highfields - a letter was sent to Kent on 3/14, cc'g
John Godfrey, Steve Pederson. on the peer review issues. Eagle Heights - an email from Kerry was received on March 17
regarding the Senior housing project, and their expectation to move forward on the re-use of the old Primary School.
Carl noted that as for updates from the DPW Director, Jack will not be able to attend the meeting this evening as he is ill.
Dave asked about the Sewer Truck repair invoice and whether it was going to be split with the Highway. Barb noted that the invoice
for $7695.05 was received today and 50% is to be paid thru Highway budget per Jack and 50% by the Sewer. Dave asked about the
camera purchased for documentation purposes. Barb confirmed that we had purchased a Digital Camera on March 16 and
provided to Corey Dowd in time for use on the l/l project and meter installations. The camera is freeze-proof, shockproof and
waterproof. Jay asked if a flash drive was purchased for memory and Barb confirmed that it was. Sewer tech certification - Corey
has received the course listing from NEIWPCC and will need to take courses by 12/31 for certification. We have $101 left in the line
item for training for the current fiscal year. Activity reports - 1/1-12/31/10 Jay had concerns that there were a lot of power outages
at the stations, especially at Francis St., causing alarms and requiring increased response, issues with solenoids, and debris in
meters. Power outages are consistent throughout the year. He asked if we can we bill Unitil for excessive repairs, or try and isolate
why we are having power outages. Dave stated either that it is Uniti's problem or our problem but it must stop. Carl wants Jack's
input. Jay said it is excessive and that Unitil needs to step up to the plate. Jack can help determine reasons. Jay asked about the
residential and meter readings on the report and Barb clarified what readings Corey is taking. Carl noted that Corey's residential
readings takes him about 7 hours 4 times a year. Dave stated that Corey did a great job at documenting issues, and that we need to
look at the alarms and power outages over a period of time to see if there is a pattern because we want to minimize the emergency
callouts. Carl asked that we discuss these activity reports with Jack at the next meeting.
Water Department meeting - Carl noted that we will be meeting with the Lunenburg Water Dept. on Wednesday, April 13 regarding
the fees that the Water Dept. would like to pass on to the users of the sewer system. They provide us the information that we use
===PAGE 2===
Barb was advised this week that the Postage meter in the Clerk's office will be going away the end of the month. Demands went
out today, but by the quarterly billing in April, an alternative will be necessary - either stamping and sealing herself or requesting help
from the School Department, in using their meter. Jay asked why it was going away and inquired as to alternatives, including getting
our own meter. Barb will look into it.
Barb noted that the Minutes from 3/9 were sent via email for review - but since Bob was not here this evening, they cannot be
voted on for this meeting, as only Bob, Jay & Carl were present on 3/9. Barb stated that she will start the April billing next week.
And we had only one invoice for approval, a Weston & Sampson's 230.62 invoice, finalizing the prelim I/l work which completes
that Letter of Agreement, which was approved for payment. Barb noted that we just received a notice that there is a public hearing
with Planning Board on April 11 at 6:30 at Town Hall regarding Gitto Global, 134 Leom-Shirley Rd. for a change in zoning.
Bob had asked that Barb advise the Commission of any expected office closures during this section of our meetings going forward,
and she stated that the office will be closed on Tuesday 4/5. She added that the DPW is also always aware (both Jack & Leigh)
when the office will be closed and a notice is put on office door. Dave stated that he had an issue with the current procedure, that
we run a business and people expect the office to be open. He stated that he understands Barb needs time off, but that we need to
come up with backup coverage, and that we need to refer them to someone in the same building, not send them to the DPW on
Chase Road. He stated it is not the right way to run a business and that a sign is insulting and that he'd prefer that a visitor is
informed personally of the office closure instead of a sign. Carl said we need to look into some sort of backup. Dave noted he
understands that this is an issue in each building and maybe Barb could talk to the Town Manager. The Sewer Division is a business
and should be there to service our customers. Carl mentioned that the possibility of hiring a part-time person that is proposed in
FY12 budget would help this issue. Barb noted that the issue of coverage is endemic with many town departments and that
everyone endeavors to answer visitors' inquiries, as best we can, for other people's departments in their absence. Carl said maybe
we need to formalize that process. Dave still has an issue with the sign and stated that we maybe we need to consider taking Barb
out of the Ritter and putting the office back at Chase Road, having the Sewer Dept. all under one roof. He restated that this needs to
be looked at and that the Sewer Dept. should be run like a business.
Barb reminded them that the next meeting was with Water District Commissioners on April 13 at 50 Lesure Ave. and our
appointment is at 7:15pm, asking if we want to meet at the Ritter at 7 and go together? Carl stated he will be away. Dave confirmed
that that is our regular Wednesday meeting night. We will meet at Ritter at 7 to go to Lesure Ave.
Barb noted that everyone had gotten the update on Stone Farm. Carl stated there was no need to go into Executive Session at this
time.
Dave asked about the Town Report draft that he'd received by email. Barb had received word this week that the report is due by
4/4 in the Selectmen's office. Bob had submitted a draft to Barb which she had received and updated and sent out to the
Commission. Barb asked if everyone could review the draft and provide any edits that it needs before she submits to the Selectmen.
Dave noted that it should have some of the recent activities and plans for the future, and that is should educate our residents. Barb
stated that this needs to be done by 4/1 and in to Selectmen by 4/4, asking that they send her the edits by the 1st at the latest and
added that Bob had approved the current draft.
Carl asked if there were a motion to adjourn? Jay made the motion, Dave seconded - vote unanimous, meeting was adjourned at
7:45 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission.
