===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Guests: Steve Pederson- Weston & Sampson, Steve deBettencourt - Selectmen liaison
Bob formally opened the meeting at 7:00 pm to start with PUBLIC HEARING on Grease trap regulation.
Grease Trap Regulation - Bob opened the discussion to say that the Draft regulation was sent to restaurants, churches,
town departments with kitchens on 5/20. We received input from Weston & Sampson, Corey Dowd-sewer technician, and
one of the churches. Forms will be devised to support the document. Bob asked for any public comment on the regulation.
Butch said he was surprised that no merchants had come to provide input. Bob stated "no comment is no comment", and
the fact may be that the regulation is good and most merchants may already do this already. Dave stated that the
document was well written and asked if there was any input from the Board of Health? Bob inquired as to whether he had
sent Barb the comments received from Board of Health? No. Bob added that the Board of Health did not take an official
vote. They did discuss the 3 tiers of fees for non-compliance and that DEP may take it as a fine. Bob noted that the fee is
due to the extra work so by increasing the fee, it compensates for additional work which should satisfy DEP. Dave inquired
whether this needs to go to the Board of Selectmen. Per Bob, it doesn't have to. We can adopt the regulation ourselves -
either tonight, or make the changes based on the input received and adopt at the next meeting. Dave asked if the final
version should be reviewed by an attorney? Bob stated that having W&S review the document qualifies for professional
review. The Commission discussed and decided to make this effective 7/1/11. This gives us time to incorporate changes
and send it out to all the business people in Town. Dave made the motion to accept the grease trap regulation effective
7/1/11 with the changes suggested by Corey Dowd and Weston & Sampson incorporated into the document. Butch
seconded. Bob asked if there was more discussion? Carl inquired as to the letter from the church. Is the regulation
applicable to United Parish? Bob clarified that it applies to any establishment that is issued a permit to operate a food
service or a non-residential property that provides food on non-commercial basis. The church has been known to prepare
known to prepare
food start to finish - same for any other institution - such as town buildings, public safety. Dishes are still cleaned and
grease disposed of. DPW would have to approve exceptions. If they have a full service kitchen, they will fall under the
regulation. Carl asked how to handle the church inquiry. Bob noted Section G under General Provisions-- "An
establishment which generates very little or no Fats, Oil and Grease, may request a waiver" United Parish is also
considering an addition and it will depend on the plumbing code. They will be required to follow the code for the updated
kitchen. Even with a waiver, each establishment still has to be inspected and clean out their grease trap each year. Bob
noted that even St. Boniface with its Italian night may need to request a waiver, even if a caterer is bringing in and taking
away the food. Dave asked if it is our onus to have them do a waiver or is the Board of Health? Bob stated that it is not the
Board of Health as grease is not considered a hazardous waste. It goes back to our commission. It states right in the
regulation: "Any waiver allowed by the Sewer Department shall be issued in writing and a copy sent to the Lunenburg Board
of Health". Carl asked if the church's letter does not constitute the request for a waiver? Bob responded that they'll need to
make a formal application for a waiver. Dave stated that the regulation doesn't just apply to the tenant but the landlords as
well. Bob noted that we had sent the regulation out to both tenant and owners. Bob re-stated - there is a Motion before the
board. Vote taken was unanimous to accept the Grease Trap regulation effective 7/1/11
Election of officers - due to the start of a new term, election of officers must occur. Jay was re-elected in the May town
election to the Commission to a 3 year term. Congratulations to Jay. Butch made motion that all positions remain same -
Bob Ebersole-Chairman, Carl Luck-Vice Chairman & Jay Simeone-Clerk. Dave seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
CONSENT AGENDA - Bob reviewed:
1229 Mass Ave 40B project of 64 condos has been re-activated.
Jones House - we have correspondence on the RFP addendum for sale of town property at 42 Main St. Jay provided
input via email to make sure they are aware that the entire plumbing is not feeding to the sewer and the necessity of the
decommissioning of septic system. Per Bob, decommissioning is the responsibility of the Board of Health. Carl asked about
the Jones house and a betterment. Per Bob, no betterments, no connection fee -they were already done. Barb confirmed
there is no current bill - the meter is off as of 12/1/10.
===PAGE 2===
but whether or not we have the extra person, we'll still have OT. Bob added that the Commission has ultimate authority to
allocate a number within the budget, that we have to be mindful of what the Selectmen said, but it is our decision how we
get to our ultimate goals for the operation of the Sewer Dept. As far as backup for Corey, Jack was getting quotes from
several companies to provide backup. We cannot continue with the current arrangement due to union rules.
Dave noted that for outsourcing, he'd like to send out an RFP to bid for service, to publicize and advertise. We really need
to start looking at how we run the business, that we need a backup and if we can outsource that will help. Bob added that
outsourcing will take care of time when Corey is on vacation and take care of his OT but it may not be less expensive than
internal costs. Bob asked Barb to advise Jack that we'll expect those quotes for next meeting. Also, along with the hourly
rates, the Commission would like to know what he expects to use throughout the year and how it compares to the cost of
using an internal employee. The Commission needs to see a comparison and not just hourly rate. As for assistant to
business manager, Bob asked whether any commissioner wants to reallocate any line item. Not at this time. Bob noted that
the Utilities line item will come down as to Water Dept. charges and asked Dave to report on his negotiations with
Lunenburg water. Dave noted that he had several meetings with Fran McNamara. Their original proposal was $2,000/gtr.
which he got down to $565/qtr or about $2200 for the year. There is no question that they are providing a service which we
need to pay for. Dave stated that Barb should expect the same service that she's received all along. Dave thanked the
Lunenburg Water District and Fran for the discussion and the agreement. Bob stated that the water line can be reduced by
$5700. Barb will send a letter thanking the Water Commissioners once we receive a letter with the proposed rates. Bob
asked Dave if he would get them to send us a letter. Bob stated we would hold off on further discussion on the budget
OT Call log - Commission reviewed Corey's OT for the period 4/2 through 5/14. New log shows that the power outages
are all over, not just one or two specific stations. Francis Street has been quiet. Dave still wants Unitil to check to resolve
the frequency of the power outages. Bob noted that once Corey gets his laptop, we will want reports of all callouts -both
within his shift and outside the shift.
Leominster Road repairs is on hold until Keating has another job in the area to make it economically feasible. Barb noted
that we did receive the report and a DVD of the camera-ing of the line to keep on file.
Leominster irrigation request - Commission reviewed the situation with a customer on Leominster water applying for use
of an irrigation system. Per Bob, this was discussed at the last meeting, and Leominster doesn't allow customers outside
the city borders to use a 2nd meter. We would have to amend the Leominster IMA. Per Bob, if the property owner wants to
talk to Leominster they can, but until the IMA is revised, their policy stands. Barb asked if we should have our own counsel
review but Bob did not believe it would be necessary. Barb also noted that Leominster is installing their own meter at the
Town line to determine flow, in response to concern for excess flows coming from Lunenburg. Barb asked if we need to take
any action. Per Bob, hopefully the information we are gathering from our own meter installation will help us determine any
issues and the work in the Whalom area will take care of that.
Leominster Sewer customers - Regarding the clay pipe issue, Barb had done up a draft letter and wanted
acknowledgement from the Commission that these properties would not have to pay connection fees, as previously offered.
Also, Barb noted the leverage paragraph stating that if they did not complete the work by 11/1, that Town would do it at the
prevailing rate and they may end up paying 3 times what they would if they did it privately and having a lien put on their
property. Commission was in agreement with the draft. Jack had stated he would be happy to deliver them door to door -
Barb wants to sit and go over the list with Jack and maybe Corey, then she'd do a mail merge of the letters for Jack to
deliver. Commission discussed situation and the letter and gave their okay for the letter to be sent.
Lt. 27 Meadowwoods - Kristi McIntyre sent a letter which was received 5/24 requesting adjustment due to a water leak.
She cannot obtain adjustment from the Water department as the water was used, but it did not enter the sewer system.
Commission discussed situation and per Bob, was 'inclined to agree to abate" but they need to see the next bill. Barb
pointed out that for her to pay the full amount creates a hardship. Commission agreed to let her pay average cost for now
($147) while we await the July invoice. If the water usage in fact reverts back to the previous "normal", then we will waive
===PAGE 3===
balance due, keeping current with new invoices as they come in, and asks that the delinquent amount not be applied to the
tax bill for 2012. The Commission agreed that as long as she keeps up with regular $100 monthly payments, the delinquent
amount will not be applied to the tax bill. Barb will send her and the Collectors office a memo stating the agreement.
Question was posed about the interest, but since the large balance was not due to us back billing as had been the case on
previous requests, but accumulated unpaid bills, there is no forgiveness of interest. Bob asked for a motion to approve this
payment plan. Butch made the motion, Dave seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
Bob Proctor will be coming to the next meeting on June 8 to put forward an extension plan request for 223 Sunnyhill Rd.
He was supposed to drop off the plan in the office today. Jack Rodriquenz has seen the plan and is in agreement.
Bob approved for payment invoices for Leominster usage $28,974.98, W&S invoice $2440.00, and Clean Basins $1080
Commission signed off on the April quarterly billing Commitment for $104,846.65
Barb announced that the Town Report is available online at lunenburgonline.com and provided the Commission a copy of
Sewer page.
Kerry will advise Barb when the Selectmen will have the Fitchburg IMA on the agenda. Per Kerry today, could be either
the June 7 or June 14 meeting. They will also be reviewing the Water IMA which may be of interest to us.
Kerry is expecting the final launch of the new website to be June 30, 2011; the content managers are being trained this
week. Andrea is attending for the Ritter building.
Corey has signed up for Safety and the WWTF for 6 of his required 10 credits to be re-licensed and will take the course on
There is no scheduled time off before the next meeting. Office should be open for the regular schedule.
We have once again contacted Lorden regarding the Lunenburg Village 40b project. We are still awaiting the privilege fee
before the sewer permit can be issued. And until the sewer permit is issued, he cannot get a building permit. Mike is also in
contact with Gary Lorden.
Next meeting is a regular Sewer meeting on June 8 at the Ritter Building.
Bob asked for a motion to go into executive session. Dave asked if we'd had any inquiries as to the pool policy, any
requests to reduce sewer bills? Barb responded that there has been only one call so far, but nothing yet received.
Bob asked if there was a motion to go into Executive Session, with no intent to return to regular session. Butch-aye, Dave -
aye, Carl - aye, Bob - aye. Unanimous.
Meeting was adjourned to go into Executive Session for the intent of discussing ongoing litigation at 8:04pm.
Respectfully submitted
Barb Lefebvre
Sewer Business Manager
