===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
will increase to accommodate back up tor sewer tech and sewer billing. Leominster connection charges need to be pala. Money needs to be
spent to upgrade billing system. Munis will be called for a quote to do this. Raising rates and fees was discussed to eliminate taking money
from retained earnings.
Bob opened the Regular Meeting at 7:00 pm
Appointments
Roger Nadeau from 61 Youngs Road came to discuss the steps needed to determine interest in his area to hook up to town sewer. He had
come before the commission in June 2011 about this and been told that letters would be sent out to the residents in the neighborhood. Bob
assured him it would be taken care of as soon as possible.
John Londa came in to discuss a waiver for the School Dept. regarding grease trap cleaning. They have put in a request to have the grease
traps cleaned semi-annually. It was suggested that the School Dept. apply for the 25% rule but the commission will need documentation
about how much grease was removed next time the traps are cleaned.
Consent Agenda
Records Request 27 Oak Ave - A request was received on 11/14 for copies of Board of Selectman files and minutes while acting as Sewer
Commissioners for consideration and approval of ANR plan Lot 1B, which was approved at a meeting held on 4/15/05.
System abandonment form - Jack R. will continue to act as agent and sign off that septic has been de-commissioned. A certificate of
completion will be given to Corey for sign-off with the System Abandonment Form attached for Jack's signature.
Highfields - They are working on a 6 month timeline to get all reports and submissions on projects completed. Soil borings are done and
the project will go back to Weston & Sampson for review. They will be asking the Planning Board for another extension.
Mutual Aid opt-in meeting proposal - This was received 11/1 and a meeting was held 11/16. Jack is the point of contact for mutual aid on
New community Innovation challenge Grant Program - This is a state program to incentivize and support innovation regionalization and
cost saving initiatives to change the way local governments do business. This was received 11/7.
Manhole customers - Another letter was sent on 11/1 to 37, 39 Wallis and to 20, 26 Pierce.
Delinquencies added to FY12 Tax Bills - There are 52 accounts with a total of $31,186.85 to be put on tax bills.
Power Outages during Northeaster storm - In an email sent on 11/1, Dave commented on the good work that Corey did during the power
outage on 10/29-30/2011.
Budget - The FY12 Budget was discussed during the workshop and would be discussed further at the next meeting.
Town Meeting 12/5/11 -Article 7 on 357 Electric Avenue
The Commission had decided to put forward an article at a Special Town Meeting to extend the sewer district. The handout will include the
revised Sewer Service Area map and the plan provided by Whitman & Bingham with the proposed delineation. The Commission had already
voted to support the action. The revised map is available at the Selectmen's office and the Clerk's Office, as well as the Sewer office.
50 Mass Ave. - Bootlegger Grease Trap compliance
Regulations require that Food Service establishments have internal & external grease traps, depending on their capacity. Sean Patricks has
an external grease trap. It was recently discovered that in 1984 the Bootlegger Restaurant installed an external grease trap and Whitman &
Bingham is looking into it and coming up with a plan, then communicating with our engineers at Weston & Sampson to review the plan,
making sure they are in compliance with our regulation. The Board of Health will look into it also. For the future, we will need a policy to have
the authority to hire engineers, similar to the project review policy in order to hold money from the developer to cover costs for engineering
review.
332 Mass Ave - Asian Imperial
The restaurant is moving from Electric Ave to the corner of Electric and Mass. They have been made aware of grease trap requirements and
will submit plans for review. The Building Department will have a tech meeting regarding this structure.
===PAGE 2===
Betterment Deferrals - Applications for deferrals were received for 36 Whalom and15 Hamlin. Both are renewals with no issues which were
approved.
Administrative Matters
Q2 Commitment and Warrant was presented for signature. Q2 billing totaled $121,780.50.
11 May's field Road Request for Credit - The property's irrigation meter is broken as the reading hasn't changed since the April 2011
billing. The resident took ownership on 10/29/2010 A letter was received on 11/21 requesting a credit 72% off this bill which is the same %
of adjustment for the same period last year with previous owner. Bob asked for a motion to approve a credit for same discount as credited to
prior owner for same period last year.
Motion - Butch B
Seconded - Jay S.
To approve a credit for same discount as credited to prior owner for same period last year Vote taken unanimous
5 Richards Way - Scott Christian came to the DPW and explained that he had just installed an irrigation system this June and was not
advised that he would require an irrigation meter. His sewer bill jumped from $137 (consistently) to $712.80. The average over last 4
invoices is 139.73. He is requesting a credit of $573.07. Documentation is needed that the irrigation was installed and when. Also, the
projected water usage based on the settings needs to be reported by the company that installed the system. The Commission would also like
to see a copy of the plumbing permit. Before the credit can be issued, they want to know the specific meter to be installed and the name of
the licensed plumber to install it.
Payment Plan request - A payment plan request was received for a resident on Dana St. She has agreed to pay off the balance of $282.72
before year-end. Therefore it was not added to her tax bill as a delinquent account.
Invoices - Two invoices were discussed from Weston and Sampson.
Next meeting - A Regular Sewer meeting is scheduled for December 14t at Ritter. It will start with an Executive Session to discuss update
on Fitchburg IMA. Regular session will begin at 8pm.
Motion - Jay S.
To Adjourn at 8pm
Seconded - Butch B.
Vote was unanimous
Respectfully submitted,
Enik Lehto
mily Lehto, Minutes Assistan
