===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bob formally opened the meeting at 7:08 pm.
Highfields Village - Bob noted that the peer review had been completed by Weston & Sampson and that Steve Pederson (Weston & Sampson) is
here to present findings. Handout of Steve's memo of 3/8. Steve noted that there is 643' of proposed sewer - not including sewer within
development. Steve showed the Commission the plans received for the plan review that are somewhat confusing. He had talked with Kent Oldfield,
engineer of the project about the plans and he agreed they are only about 70%. Bottom line - we can get from where they are in the Highfields
Village land to Mass Ave., but these plans are not contractor-ready. Plans/profiles don't match- match points, profiles not lined up, and not on every
sheet. Kent is the engineer of New England Engineering, and John Godfrey is developer. Steve said it was probably premature to do peer review.
Question arose as to whether entire system has been peer reviewed. Bob noted that it may have been prior to the Sewer Commission adopting the
peer review policy. Barb will check with Marion Benson. Jack brought up his concerns with Highfields plan. 1) excessive use of drop manholes -
these are done as a convenience of installer. These create owner issues, mechanical issues and have greater chance of clogging. Bob asked if we
have other dropped manholes? Jack confirmed that we had some on White St. 2) Need to consider sill elevations (did it on Leominster Rd). It is well
worth the time to do survey. Steve concurred that we need to see sill elevations on the plans 3) Town should require 30' openings (24" are
unacceptable for openings). It was discussed that we need to get these specifications into our regulations. Discussion followed on the issue of
coming across wetlands - need to do borings, manholes should be raised. Bob summed it up to say that the bottom line recommendation is Plans
need to be re-submitted for another peer review with the rest of the sewer system in the development. Steve noted that they should get this plan in
lay sewer pipes on White. Bob also asked that we include a stub at the junction of White & Maple Pkwy to go back up White St for additional
connections. He asked if the White St. pipe is large enough to handle additional flow? Jack noted it is 8" on White St and joins to a 10" on Mass Ave
- so cannot be increase but doesn't need to be. Eight-inch pipe could handle a lot more flow. It was noted that there is a conflict with gas line on
the plan - sewer line will need to be moved to middle of road. Jack stated that the normal sequence is survey, contractor, plans. This area needs to
be surveyed. We will have a water main, gas main, drainage and there's going to be conflict. With a proper survey, much can be resolved before &
during bidding process. Highfields needs to take the time to do a good survey. Jack confirmed that the developer is doing the work on Maple
Parkway, we will pave it once complete and take ownership of sewer. Discussion followed that the drainage on Maple Parkway is antiquated. Steve
had the old plan and it was discussed that we'll need the new plans to show the easement (from Highfields) through the wetlands. Jack noted that
even though we are not actually crossing wetlands, the pipes will be within 100'. Jack re-stated that if the Town is going to take ownership of the
sewer, those plans need to be approved before any work commences. Bob asked Barb to send a copy of the peer review to Kent & John Godfrey -
that we are "in receipt of plans but do not consider them complete or adequate for us to take any action - we are submitting to you the report - we
expect a reconfiguration of plans and with consideration of items on the peer review, that we have not received nor reviewed for the complete plans
for the development since the change to gravity sewer and that we will need to see those plans at the same time and have them reviewed at the
same time". Jack noted that we have template for where we want stub that could be utilized in the design. As for the 30" manholes - do we have
requirement in the rules & regs? We do not and could beef up regs to include it, but Jack noted that we have consistently requested the same specs
(i.e. Meadowwoods). They have only to check back to note that we are not asking for anything above and beyond what we ask other contractors.
We can refer to what is in the ground. We could just make a general statement in the regulations, - "at a minimum we require ...". Steve suggested
that we take the specifications section of any RFP and incorporate that section into our regs. Bob added that the letter to Kent & John should state:
wille pans ps i sewer would work in this location, we don't consider this a formal plan. Steve noted that the quoted
$2500 tee has been utilized. They will need additional funds to do a more formal and final peer review of the entire project. Bob asked Barb to let
the Planning Board know the status, that we need the entire plan for development, that we have reviewed extension, but that it needs further work.
Bob noted that Walmart had to blast, that there is ledge. We also need borings and a performance bond. Jack re-stated that what we need to get
is a full and thorough set of plans.
Spring Flow Metering Project - Bob noted that at the last meeting 2/17, we agreed to go ahead as long as is price came in under 85,000. Price
was $21,525 for the purchase of permanent meters and Weston & Sampson's contract is $57,300 for a total of $78,825 which Bob has signed. Flow
Assessment was the low bidder for 3 permanent meters, 3 temporary. Steve has submitted a package with 3 qualifed price quotes. Steve stated that
they should be installed by the first week of April at the latest and as soon as Flow Assessment gives them a signed agreement, they'll have a firmer
time trame. We are lucky that they had ordered meters previously, otherwise there was a 6 week wait for new meters. Steve complimented the
Commission for proposing to install the 3 permanent meters- it will save the Town money by installing the permanent & temporary at the same time.
One thing that came up on their site walk - the metering site at Mass Ave needs to be flushed of sediment before the permanent meter can be
installed. It will need to be jetted and vacuumed, possibly by Blue Water Septic. This needs to be done quickly to stick to schedule. Bob mentioned
that we'll be getting a digital camera to document what's in there, before & after. Steve added that with permanent meters there will be operation
maintenance costs and added that none of the costs in the memo include ongoing maintenance. Website setup, hosting of the website and having
===PAGE 2===
Status reports from Jack - Jack Rodriquenz didn't have much else new besides the flow metering project. Discussion touched upon the roof
drains at schools and getting inside to check on the grease traps. Also discussed was the drain on West St and manholes with frost heaves. Some
of these issues may contribute to the inflow/infiltration. By going around town, this will help identify where some of the water is coming from.
Capital spending discussion - As for Capital expenses, Jack touched on Leominster Road and the repairs there. Also, the work on Pierce Avenue.
Discussion followed on the Clay pipe issues. Jack notes that in the Whalom District there are road repairs where cross trenches have sunken
Some can be paid by Highway. That with I/l, once found, we have to be prepared with what we can do about it. Jack would like to see all manholes
have adjustments to the covers, new gaskets to stop leaking. This requires that they lift the holes, requiring site work and police details. The good
news is that they will be having person this summer, not paying police detail fees. He estimated possibly $18K for the Whalom District and 1/l.
We have sewer laterals that have sunken which we need to re-cut and re-lay. Bob pointed out that the Pierce Ave issue is a separate issue. Jack
noted that there comes a time that a lot of work will need to be done, talling under pavement maintenance. I/l will determine how we have to repair
and where we have to repair. Bob asked Barb about figure from Karen as to project funds. Barb estimated it was about $256k but will get
confirmation from Karen. Bob added that there may be I/l work involving cameras and smoke testing. Steve Pedersen pointed out that a Town this
size would usually hire someone. It is not something town employees would be expected to handle. Discussion continued as to whether the Town
can force someone to connect to sewer and that we cannot stop sewer flow to any home. Jack would like to send a letter, with adequate legal
backing, sending certified mail and do it asap. Bob stated we need to do due diligence and give them a time frame. Jack wants a drop dead date
because we are going to get rid of that pipe, but Bob stated we need to ensure proper language and proper enforcement. Then we can get rid of
manhole at Pierce Ave. Discussion following on where does the pipe go now, where to shut off, and would we fill it in and whether we have any
maps of this area? Jack had provided the list of owners connected to old sewer and noted that in the list of regulations it is required that old lines
have to be crushed/filled as part of what contractor has to do in installing a new connection to the sewer. There might be 10' or 20' to decommission
and that would take care of that area. The other issue is all the clay pipe. We now require pvc from stub to the house. Will we need to camera the
lines, going house to house? This is another letter. Bob stated that we understand that this needs to be done but we need to study the records - who
has connected to sewer and who it was connected to the home. Even if the clay pipe is not broken, it still needs to be replaced. At the joining of the
pipes is always a problem. Carl pointed out this issue is all around town, fixing all other homes with clay pipe. If we make the homes in the Whalom
Distroit connect pvc from stub to house, we need to require throughout town. Jay asked if Leominster originally installed that sewer? Jack said yes,
early 1900s. Bob stated that we need to do research and clearly identify where connections are before we send letter, find firms that do the camera-
ing of lines, we need to know if there is financial assistance to offer people, and it all needs to be run by town counsel.
Bob asked about any other
areas besides Whalom and Jack stated that Meadowwoods baffled him. It should be a brand new connection but the meter is cycling more
frequently during heavy water times. We need to investigate there as well as the schools and Whalom. Jack stated that the manholes have been
numbered by GIS. We need to go manhole to manhole in the rain to pop cover, then mark manholes on map might be a cheaper way to determine
I/l. Carl asked if we can get an engineering student from university like WPI to do it as part of an engineering project? Jack had called WPI
previously and there is always a timing issue during semester, so it doesn't offer work out. Steve P pointed out that as a MQP - major qualifying
project - it must go over the span of a semester. Steve suggested that the Commission wait for the outcome of the l/l project and they will have
suggestions for remedying.
Grease Traps - Bob has the draft policy on laptop and committed to have new policy by the 29th, which he would then bring to the Board of Health
for approval.
Sewer truck - Bob noted that we haven't gotten the final invoice on truck, nor contested the malfunction thru Ford. Jack spoke to the issue, stating
that Kerry had asked for the report to review of the miles and use. He stated that Jim Marino of the LPD is a great contact, that he has access into
Ford's log of truck activities. He noted that we just had to replace the fuel pump on truck also but that the DPW was able to do the work themselves,
saving several hundreds of dollars.
Lunenburg Water -Bob noted that we are requesting meeting with combined Boards to discuss fees in new fiscal year and we are waiting for a
convenient time for both Commissions to meet. Bob pointed out that the installation of meters that we are doing does not affect the charges that the
Water Dept. is planning to bill the Sewer Dept. for. We will still have to bill homeowners, using the Water District's data. He noted that the Water
District is buying new meter readers and trying to cover the cost. Hopefully we can go to them and come up with another price.
===PAGE 3===
change the tenant's address, adding "in care of" Emerald Place.
Budget FY12 -Bob reviewed the meeting with FinCom on 3/3 and that even though Barb had supplied the forms to Kerry, that FinCom didn't have
the budget handouts. He pointed out to John Male who was in attendance from the FinCom that after the meeting he had checked downstairs, and
the forms were in the FinCom mail slot. He had described to the FinCom the potential impact of the flow meters and I/l and that the result could
double the cost to Leominster and Fitchburg. He also talked about the water fee, what we're doing with Fitchburg, and about the position to help
Barb. FinCom was concerned whether it would be a new position or additional hours but Bob had stated that that is up to the Town Manager. He
discussed adding a position at the DPW from 4-12, the Retained Earnings and that we didn't want to raise rates this year. He noted that FinCom
can recommend a budget different than ours but it doesn't really affect the town.
Invoices - Barb presented the Commission with the Leominster usage bill which included $13k adjustment from prior quarter which was approved.
Town Report - Bob has still to do the submission and will have the Commission review it before submittal.
Discussion of Lunenburg Water's process followed and the timing of the meter readings. In Jack's conversation with Roger, he would like to get
the readings to Leominster by the 20t but much hinges on when Barb gets the info from Lunenburg Water.
IMA for Fitchburg - Jay asked what we had heard from the Selectmen, but from the Selectmen's meeting the previous night, Carl stated that they
were not going to make a decision on who is on the negotiating team until they get IMA. Although we'd already sent it a while back, Carl asked that
we re-send the IMA draft to Kerry.
There was a motion to adjourn at 8:45pm, seconded and approved.
Next meeting - Regular Sewer meeting - March 29 - Town Hall
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
