===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bob formally opened the meeting at 1:02 pm
Appointments
Bob introduced Gary Lorden of Benjamin Builders who is responsible for the Lunenburg Village 40B. Gary reviewed the
Lunenburg Village project of 64 house lots and his delay in starting the project while completing another project in
Templeton. He needs a different payment arrangement for the privilege fee. He is paying $55,000 per year, and has lost
money every year for the last 4 years, all of the construction industry is struggling. He explained that he would like a process
similar to Templeton. The betterment amount is similar and he has it arranged so that when he pulls a permit, he pays ½ of
the fee and before occupancy he pays the 2nd 1/2. In Lunenburg, he has it apportioned over 10 years and last year was his
greatest loss year ever. His 40B project is approved by town, but not yet by the state. Barb read the clause on the payment
of privilege fee from the ZBA decision. No building permit for any unit in the Project shall be issued until such time as: (i) the
Applicant has paid the Sewer Commission's uniform sewer connection fee (currently $1,760 per unit for such unit, and iii)
for 47 of the 48 market-rate units only, the uniform privilege fee in effect as of the date of this application (based on the
previously-assessed sewer betterment and equal to $11,700 per unit for the market-rate units) has been paid for such unit.
Bob asked for input? Dave asked if we were to forgive the privilege fees for now if it would have any budget impact. Bob
responded that privilege fee income is kept separate along with betterment revenue. Dave said that if there is no loss to our
budget, it is ok with him. Bob cautioned that we must consider other privilege fees for undeveloped lots. Under the
comprehensive permit, if the state wants to waive all fees to make the project affordable, they could. Also, we must
consider other projects coming down the pike. Dave reiterated that we need to stay consistent. Bob proposed that we could
grant 1 year reprieve from collection of privilege fees subject to the sale of lots, and review the case in a year's time, and for
any permit pulled for any unit, the ½ the fee would be payable and at occupancy permit issuance, the other ½ would be
payable. Dave said we need to document this policy going forward. Bob said Barb could work with the Assessors and
Collectors for an abatement for administrative purposes, basically reversing betterment and any interest, done as an
administrative abatement. Bob noted that it is apportioned over a 10 year period and the interest should continue to accrue,
but not be charged. Gary confirmed that we would waive the first year and apply interest after the 1st year. Barb noted that
the interest rate was about 3%. Commission discussed the process with Gary - pulling permits, getting the funding,
involving Mass Housing, putting a road in.... Bob noted that all taxes and fees have to be paid to apply for a permit. Carl
asked Gary if he saw them starting on Lunenburg Village in a year? Gary stated that he has 13 units left to build in
Templeton and that he would like to finish that then begin here. Bob restated that he was ok waiving the interest for the first
year and Dave agreed. Bob noted that the one year period begins today, not when privilege fees were assessed. Carl
noted that we need to be very careful, it is precedent setting. We may be doing it for the economy but need to determine
strict criteria for making this arrangement. Bob added that it is the economy and the current lack of new home sales.
Commission discussed the likelihood of offering same arrangement to another project. Gary stated that the state has
extended permits on most projects another 2 years due to the current economic standstill. We will need to define hardship.
In the future when we issue privilege fee assessment, we still will put a lien on the property but adopt a policy regarding the
payment of them. Gary stated that Templeton has a policy such as that on comprehensive permits. Bob noted that our
special assessment bylaw may need to be revised. Bob asked if there were a motion to waive the privilege fee &
interest for one year and then revisit the situation, and if a unit is built, then 50% of that unit's privilege fee will be
due at permit application and 50% prior to occupancy or sale of property, whichever comes first. He added that
this will not affect current betterments (the 2 originally assessed to the property in 2008), but only the privilege fees
on the 40B project. Dave made the motion, Carl seconded. Bob asked for any more discussion? Dave stated he'd like
to follow the chairman's suggestion, and make this policy for comprehensive permits only, other 40b projects. We could
craft the policy and provide the verbiage to the ZBA to include in their response. We would have it ready that this is our
policy for comprehensive permits. Bob asked for any more discussion? Vote was taken and was unanimous. Barb will
send a letter and work with the collector to accomplish this. Gary thanked the Commission for their consideration and
willingness to help in this situation.
===PAGE 2===
analyses, and plots of the data are included in Appendices C-F of the report; although Mass Ave area near the Fitchburg
line exhibited the highest infiltration value, nothing was enough to merit further infiltration investigation at this point. The
system is pretty tight (peak infiltration of 29000 gpd for the system, which averages out to 221 gallons per inch diameter per
mile of sewer (gpdim)). The state's guidelines rate 4000 gpdim as excessive, so even at Mass Ave's highest peak
infiltration at 675 gpdim was still well below state's guidelines. Carl brought up the pipe size and Bob asked about the
potential connection of White Street to Mass Ave, and Pat assured them that Lunenburg, at this point, would not need to
worry about pipe capacity. Steve summed it up saying that in terms of the results of the flow metering project, it is not an
infiltration issue. Bob asked about broken pipes from street to homeowners and Steve thought it was not contributing a
significant flow. Steve continued on from the Executive Summary that, using DEP guidelines and analysis of pump station
flows, Graham St & Leominster Rd, Areas 3 and 6, exhibited excessive inflow, that the area was isolated - not the center of
town, by eliminating other sections. Using quantitative data and the peak inflow in the system (1 yr 6 hr storm @ 6.78" per
hour equals 1,225,000 gallons per day), 80% of that was in the Leominster Rd and Graham St. areas (945,000 gpd). Using
pump station run time data as well, they determined that Mass 1 and Mass 2, Leom Rd and Dana St. showed a significant
increase in flows (table 4) during rain events. Carl asked whether they correlated data between pump stations and meter
readings. They had not. Bob asked if we should install monitoring systems in pump stations? Steve didn't think that was
necessary - it was just an additional tool of evaluation. Steve stated that our biggest issue is inflow (rain induced) in those 2
areas. It can come in different ways - when it rains, you get direct increased flow from roof leaders, driveway drains, open
slotted manhole covers. In addition, though delayed, you also get results from sump pumps. The study indicates both direct
and delayed in areas 3 and 6. Per Steve, rainfall induced infiltration is negligible. The best way to determine inflow is from
dye tests and smoke tests. Dave noted this can also catch illegal tie-ins and may help solve the clay pipe situation that is in
the Area 3. Steve stated that smoke testing the 2 areas is cost effective and gave the estimate of 29,000 to do both areas.
He noted that smoke tests are best during dry weather, before the freeze (June to November). Another analysis is through
dye testing, included in the cost because anything that isn't supposed to smoke, you dye test. Smoke doesn't confirm
where it is connected and dye determines with more accuracy an illegal hookup. Bob asked how to prevent people from
outsmarting the smoke or dye tests by putting in a trap. Carl said that if we identify a problem, we want to oversee how it is
remedied. Bob asked about the process, if we see smoke, we send violation notice? Pat stated that smoke can travel
through ground so it doesn't always indicate an illegal connection. Steve noted that an interior building inspection is on a
totally separate level. Dave asked if he could reduce the cost at all from $29,000? Steve said he could take a look at the
scope.
timeframe, Pat noted it takes about a week for smoke testing, hiring the contractor to do 2 days of testing and flooding.
Steve said it was approximately a month from beginning to end. Pat described the process: you use a smoke candle, and
put a lawn mower-type engine that fits over manhole, 2 people spread out checking every possible entry - roof leaders,
sewer vents, etc. Bob asked if we could have a more detailed proposal for smoke and dye for the 2 areas by the next
meeting. Dave noted that it is good that the next meeting is televised and can announce that we've awarded the contract
perform smoke testings to put people on alert. Bob added - we also have reverse 911 and cable. Steve was asked as part
of the testing, would sump pumps get picked up in this process. Pat stated that in his experience, not many are picked up -
if anything, it is the ones that have been disconnected. It was discussed that we could do a mailing to advise that Weston &
Sampson would be coming out to this specific area. Bob asked if we have any fines on the books to assess to offenders?
Barb didn't think so. We may need to develop a private inflow removal policy. Bob asked if we could tell from physical
inspection how long someone has been connected? Steve said 'No". We need to look at as builts to determine when the
pipes were laid - good chance installed at same time. Charge back? Carl asked to return to the policy - maybe we could
say there will be a period of leniency. There will be no fine if you come forward between now and ? and admit an illegal
hookup. After such a date, this fine will be imposed. Bob asked about the building inspection - any time constraints? Pat
noted is can be done anytime. Bob re-stated that we would like a proposal for our next meeting. We can have continuing
discussion and at some point we will need to do building inspections as well.
Bob asked if there were more details from the report? Steve produced O&M manuals for the flow meters to be kept by the
Town for the 3 permanent meters. One could be kept here at the Ritter, the other for Corey or Jack at the DPW but wait until
construction is completed. Bob stated that Jack was going to talk to John Londa (schools) regarding the waiver for the
===PAGE 3===
Manhole customers in Whalom area -and the issue of finding funds for people that need assistance. We will put on the
September agenda to determine what the intentions were, if it was that we would do the project and assess the costs to the
residents.
MIlA Grant program -we received a notice that we could apply for grants regarding safety in the workplace. Barb asked
Jack for his recommendation (i.e. safety equipment for Corey, sewer backup/overflow prevention). Jack was meeting with his
MIlA rep today and will provide suggestions. Jay asked what he would apply for - winches, safety harnesses? We will
await Jack's update after his meeting.
Outsourcing - Commission stated that we need a contract for Hall Pump and if it is not decided, we'll need 3 bids. Barb
stated that Corey is on vacation 8/22-26 and Jim will be covering during the day, Hall Pump covering evening/nights. Barb
will involve Karen Brochu, town accountant, in discussion of the contract.
Sunnyhill Rd extension - Barb noted that the office has fielded a lot of calls and concerns regarding the 50% betterment
article in the Ledger and have informed and directed callers to discuss potential connections with Bob or Jack. To date, no
one else is involved in the extension. Per Bob Proctor's office manager, there have been lots of inquiries but no one wants
to pay the $48k to bring the pipes up to their home. The extension is proceeding ahead. We will need to assess the owners
of 223 Sunnyhill Rd their privilege fee of $5775.74. Jack needs to issue road opening permit and trench permit. Bob asked
that we note in our list of accomplishments for the next Town report this extension to sewer, and potentially White St. Also,
that once the extension is complete, we let the Ledger know that one extension was completed and that the Sewer
Commission is open to sewer expansion and other extension requests. The subject was brought up about the rules that
drain layers must abide by related to compaction, compression. Barb will add it to the list of policies for Weston & Sampson
review.
General Discussion
Dave noted that at the Special Town meeting, he was approached by a number of residents, stating that they have been
impressed with the current Commission, its common sense approach, and its accomplishments and he just wanted to share
that with the other members. Bob pointed out that prior Commissioners have done good work for the Town and might have
had more controversial matters to address than this present Commission, but thanked Dave for passing along the
compliment to the entire Commission. Jay asked if Barb could provide the Commissioners with a project status sheet, to
provide to the Commissioners monthly.
Administrative Matters
Invoices/Warrants for sig -Commission signed off on Weston & Sampson invoice for $16,019.59 for services on the Flow
Meter project through 7/1/11, still within the contracted amount.
Minutes for approval 5/31, 7/13 were presented to the Commission. Some members still need to review. Barb will put on
the agenda for the next meeting.
Next meeting - The next regular Sewer meeting will be August 30th at Town Hall.
Bob stated he would entertain a motion to adjourn the regular meeting to open an Executive Session with no intent to return
to regular session. Roll call vote taken to adjourn regular session Dave-aye, Carl-aye, Jay-aye, Bob-aye. Meeting
adjourned at 8:40pm.
Respectfully submitted,
anton feb.
Business Manager for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
