===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bob formally opened the meeting at 7:09 pm
Those present reviewed the consent agenda. Bob asked if there were any comments about Consent agenda items
CONSENT AGENDA -
332 Mass Ave - the Asian Imperial. A memo was sent to Planning Board on 6/9 for the public hearing 6/13. Project is
moving ahead.
Flow Assessment contract - contract was received back from Flow Assessment with signatures. They verified that they
will work with Corey to be trained to do maintenance/calibration throughout next year.
Laptop - IT is waiting on new battery which Nancy Strom ordered week of 7/4/11. We confirmed that it falls under IT budget
to order the battery.
Manhole customers in Whalom area - letters were sent 6/21 to the 4 households connected to the manhole behind 20
Pierce Ave. We discussed funding: see if there were local banks to loan the residents the money for repair. Butch asked
about remaining project $ - can we use that $ to loan? Barb to check with Kerry if we can use $ for loan program. Barb
discussed her findings so far on funding - that mostly it is the people that must take the loan, cannot be done by the town.
Lunenburg Village 40b -new memo to Gary Lorden from Mike S 7/5 that the 40B project is not in compliance. Bob stated
that the monies owed to the Town for sewer privilege fees are tied in with a lien already in place.
Vew website -per Kerry soft launch of the new site was as of June 30, 2011 and is live now at www.lunenburqma.gov
follis Hills - Sewer Commission was copied on memo to HAC from counsel dated 6/30/11. Bob stated that ZBA Chair Don
Bowen had brought up concern that our 50% charge for betterments on extensions might affect our case with Hollis Hills.
Any further discussion will have to move to executive session.
Fitchburg IMA -Dave requested this subject be moved to Executive Session.
Fitchburg rate increase - moved to Executive Session as well.
MassDEP 2012 SRF solicitation period open- Sewer office received notice of this SRF period from Kevin Olson at Wright
Pierce 6/23. We received a copy of the Board of Health minutes from 9/20/10 from Andrea on 7/13 regarding the funds they
have still available for loan. Bob would like to talk about this at a future meeting, plus doing customer outreach to get
people to sign up. Dave stated that we could start using the web for that
REPORT FROM DPW DIRECTOR -Jack had emailed his update to the Commission in an email dated 7/12 which the
Commission had reviewed.
Grease Trap regulation - we had received a request for waiver from the schools. Bob noted that by putting this regulation
into effect, we have doubled their work. Bob wants a representative there when it is inspected to verify their contention that
it is never full. Butch asked if we deny the waiver? Bob stated that we need to decide - would we deny the request or just
request that they document to us the issues. Dave stated that we need to treat them like everyone else. Discussion
followed on how many times they need to clean, whether we need to be there, and that the cleaner provides a report that
we can also review. Bob noted that we require inspection on a monthly basis. Dave re-stated that we cannot give them a
waiver-everyone else will want one. Bob noted that each inspection is a lot of work and Steve added that it is not fun to
take apart the grease traps. Carl asked how many we were talking about and Steve said it was one for each building
Butch made the motion to deny the request for waiver, Carl seconded - Bob as if there was any further discussion? Dave
stated that if they call in a company, the company provides the information from the cleaning. Carl asked if an external
company would do this work? Bob stated no - so we need clear documentation. Vote taken was unanimous. Dave asked
about doing a surprise visit and inspection. Bob noted that we or our agents can go unannounced anytime. Bob stated that
with this denial, Jack should talk to John Londa.
Leominster Road repair - Bob noted that project is done. Steve asked if we had also contracted for the additional
locations in town that Keating was doing? Bob stated no, we are not responsible for any other areas. We are expecting the
bill to come to about $8500.
Leominster Clay pipe issue (and the water issues with Leominster.) Per Bob, this still needs to be resolved - Barb has
been requesting to meet with Jack and Ruth & Roger from Leominster. Per Steve, ALL HOMES IN THAT AREA ARE
CONNECTED to Lunenburg. Jack stated that he had provided a folder with information but Barb has no paperwork
===PAGE 2===
someone's connection fee could be spread out over multiple years, like the betterment. Per Bob, we would have to lien the
amount, but Barb can run it by Weston & Sampson.
Budget FY11 - Commission reviewed the list of encumbrances for FY11:
WESTON & SAMPSON- general services $14000
WESTON & SAMPSON- flow meter analysis $42,328.75
CHAMBERS ADVISORY - sales tax credit $51.15
GETTENS ELECTRIC - $10.00
FLOW ASSESSMENT SVCS -yearly contract $9500
HALL PUMP- June 2011 semi-annual cleaning of wet wells $3500
KOPPELMAN & PAIGE - legal costs not yet received $4000
CITY OF LEOMINSTER - connection fees $17,250 already in line item and $67,500 in unbudgeted revenue
VERIZON -June bills $360
Total of $158,499.90
Instead of a vote, the Sewer Commission signed off on the encumbrance form to be submitted to Karen Brochu.
Commission had received a copy of the year-to-date FY11 budget spreadsheet. Barb noted these numbers were pre-
reconciliation to Karen's numbers in the accounting system.
Extension request - Sunnyhill Rd -Bob noted that everyone saw the article in the Lunenburg Ledger. Barb added she
had received several calls from people with possible interest in participating, located both to the north and south of the
intersection and had referred to the callers to either Jack Rodriquenz or Bob Proctor.
Payment Plan request - Barb had noted that she had received a request from the woman at Lt 30 Meadowwoods. Bob
stated that the Commission is okay with Barb approving payment plans as long as it is within reason. Barb will include them
on the agenda going forward only as an FYI.
Dave wanted to go back to the budget momentarily and asked if Jiim Breault is still working on sewer. Per Dave, things are
starting to fall through and we may need his help. Bob said Jim hasn't been in the budget this year and was previously only
at 2%. Bob said we need to call Jack and get the clarification on Hall Pump regarding outsourcing, how they were going to
charge but that Jim is not available to us. Butch pointed out that Jack's update comes too late for the Commission to act.
Bob said if it gets to that point, he'll talk to Kerry.
Administrative Matters
USA blue book - Barb noted that we made a quick gas meter purchase on the last day of the fiscal year. It needed to be
ordered for OSHA purposes, safety concerns for entering confined spaces. Jay concurred that there are a lot of safety
measures that we should comply with and asked if we had any other safety equipment for entering manholes? Barb was
asked to check with Corey or talk to Jack on this.
Outsourcing - Steve asked who we are using on the outsourcing? Bob said that Jack had obtained 3 quotes and Hall
Pump was the best price / best fit. Barb still needs to get with Jack to see if he has answers on the additional details they
had asked for and if there is a contract for the outsourcing.
Invoices/Warrants for sig -invoice for Weston & Sampson for $2460 for still the preliminary work on the flow meters was
approved.
Highfields - Dave brought up the Planning Board meeting and the blasting of the Sewer Commission in their discussion of
Highfields, basically blaming the Sewer Commission for dragging this out. Barb to talk to Marion.
Training - Barb noted that Corey Dowd had taken the Safety in WWTF course 6/21/11. Barb noted that between now and
the next meeting, she doesn't anticipate the office being closed. Dave asked if Corey had gone online to download any of
the flow meter readings coming in. Barb wasn't' sure he had and will check.
Barb had sent out the executive session minutes of 5/31/11 for approval. Bob moved them to executive session for
approval.
===PAGE 3===

