===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bob E.
-
Butch B
Carl
Dave M.
SEWER COMMISSION
EXECUTIVE SESSION
6/13/12
The Sewer Commission met at the Ritter Building and opened Executive Session at 8:50 pm in accordance with M.G.L
Chapter 39, §23B (2) to conduct strategy session in preparation for litigation and contracts if an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the goverment's bargaining or litigation position with a roll call vote: Butch Bilotta, aye, Dave MacDonald,
aye, Jay Simeone, aye, Bob Ebersole, aye, Carl Luck, aye,. Chairman announced that they would not be returning to Regular
Session.
Bob stated that the reason for Executive Session was to discuss the status if the IMA for Fitchburg.
Carl had updated the IMA. As for the new capacity numbers, Carl had used 80,000 gpd as the baseline (70,000 at Mass Ave.
10,000 at Summer St.) and had constructed the document using figure of 120,000 for John Fitch Highway, leaving the
allocation of 10,000 at the Summer Street connection for an increase of 50,000. He had input the figures to the IMA that the
Commission had agreed upon previously and sent the IMA to Joe Jordan on 6/11/12. All the capacity is noted in Paragraph
12. He'd eliminated the $1.65 administrative fee, changed it to be metered by water not the flow meters, and eliminated the
potential of paying the capital expense twice. We had sent the revised IMA to Paula & Tom, the representatives from the Board
of Selectmen, who had reviewed and okayed it. The only change to the IMA that the Commission saw last were these capacity
numbers. Butch thanked Carl for all his work on this. Carl is anxious to hear Fitchburg's reaction. Question arose as to who in
Fitchburg would execute the document? Discussed followed that either Lisa Wong, as mayor of Fitchburg, or the Chairperson
for the Wastewater Facilities, Joe Jordan, would sign. It still has to be approved by the City Couneil, but they do not have the
signature power as it was turned over to the mayor's office when it went under the Enterprise Fund. Bob asked if there was
anything else we needed to know. Carl stated he will follow up and contact Joe Jordan. It was noted that the next meeting was
June 26. Dave said they should not be surprised in that they know most of what we were proposing.
Bob asked for a motion to adjourn. Butch made the motion, Carl seconded. Bob asked for a vote to adjourn. Butch -aye, Dave-
aye, Jay-aye, Carl -aye, Bob-aye. At 9:10 pm the Executive Session was adjourned
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager
