===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
participate possibly with the Commission.
Jay announced that Carl Luck is participating remotely as he is out of the country on business. The consent agenda was
moved further down the agenda to address the Lancaster Ave. agenda item since those residents were present.
Lancaster Ave. extension - Pat went over the peer review, stating that the 2" pipe proposed for the 6-10 homes is fine, but
if a 3" installed now, we would have debris accumulation and odor issues. Question raised was we have up to 6 proposed
connections, but if only 2 connect, what happens in term of maintenance? Pat responded that 2" would be sufficient. If
oversized, we would have issues. Pat added that per the plan, it shows one portion where it says 1.5" and needs to be
changed to 2". Pat mentioned that a doghouse manhole can leak and must be put in correctly and ensure it is watertight.
Jack stated he was the one that had requested this type at that point in the line. Questions arose on the automatic release
valve issue and also the PVC swing check valve. Pat will check with Steve. He added the recommendation to compact
above & below the pipe that is not shown on the plan. Pat recommended that all points be incorporated into the plan. Pat
added that a survey protects the residents from unexpected costs. Jay asked if the contractor had received and accepted
Weston & Sampson's comments? Jack pointed out the necessity of the survey and that otherwise you don't know what's in
the ground and creates change orders. If there is a conflict, may be more expensive for the owner. Jack noted that we
need invert heights in manhole covers, elevation, etc - we are fortunate that it is a pressure main, not gravity. He added
that we don't know how the pipe lines up with the poles. He knows we are trying to line it up with the sidewalk but there are
poles in the center of the grassy strips- which side is the pipe going in on? Carl added - is there any accommodation for
future connections? Can all lots along the line connect into the line? Jamie stated that lateral/stubs will be installed. Jack
was concerned for properties across the street, or if one of the properties were to subdivide. Are the stubs all on the east
side? Jamie answered 'yes'. It was noted that it should be written into the acceptance of the line that all connections for the
west side are on the opposite side of the street. Carl stated that, since he couldn't see the plan (remote), he assumes the
line ends midway through the last affected lot? John Reynolds said that McClure mentioned that extending the line to 50%
of the frontage would necessitate DEP approval for the extension. The line is at 990' and stops just beyond the Murphy's
line, but this is inconsistent with what we've asked. Carl asked about a precedent? Jack acknowledged that there is - the
extension on Sunnyhill Rd.. Carl asked what the reason was and Jack responded that it was not his issue, that it went
before the Commission, and that we could check those minutes. Carl stated that we would have to give approval as a
waiver to the policy. Barb confirmed that the 50% rule is in the extension policy. Jack added that if an extension is over
1000 the DEP has to accept the extension, that an extension that length is a larger job than the DEP allows a town to do.
Jay stated that he had not recalled any discussion on this subject. Carl noted that we have to have good solid reasons to
waiver and that avoiding the DEP is not a good one. Discussion followed as to whether the DEP had any leeway, if it is just
100 over the required 1000'. Pat noted that in his experience with the DEP, it is a strict regulation and any extension over
1000 has to be approved but he will check with their DEP contact. Carl noted that the only justification for the request is that
by designing the extension using a 2" pipe, this design doesn't facilitate expansion past the proposed extension. Per Dave,
if we go more than 1000', the pipe is not big enough anyway. We only need the line to go to 1100-1150' maybe to be 50%
of Murphy frontage. John Reynolds asked since west side has to connect further up, does it have to go that far? Jack stated
the 50% rule was for extensions in the future, past this extension. The issue is that the line does not extend 50% of the
frontage of the last property served by the proposed extension, which is in our policy. Jay stated that it is an issue to take up
with counsel. Per Counsel's recent submittal for the extension policy, Item 5 in Section 8 states: "If the proposed privately-
funded extension will not extend sewers to all of the remaining unsewered ways in the sewer service zone within which the
extension is to be located, it must nevertheless be designed, in the determination of the Sewer Commission's engineers
providing peer review of project design, with adequate size, materials, grade, appurtenances, so that it can be used to
further extend sewer service to all of the remaining unsewered ways in such sewer service zone without modification to
such privately-funded extension." Jack stated that we've been through that - that the applicants run the risk. Carl noted that
Item 6 following addresses this case - Jay read from Counsel's recent submittal for the extension policy #6 of Section 8.0:
"Notwithstanding such determination of adequacy of design of such privately-funded extension to serve the remainder of the
sewer service zone, if circumstances change, including but not limited to changes in state or federal law or regulations, state
or federal administrative or court order, changes in land use within the sewer service zone that require increased sewer
capacity, changes in sewer service zone or sewer service area design such as from a low-pressure grinder pump system
===PAGE 2===
• , ''
should be self-sufficient. Jay asked if we should approve of the plan, with the contingency for the determination on the 1000'
DEP requirement? Carl stated that if we get the information tomorrow and if the DEP is willing to let us go 1100'- 1150', or if
they won't budge on the 1000', that we have to put language in the policy for the acceptance of a plan which allows a waiver
of going to 50% of last property served, and that the approval is pending that determination. Pat stated again that he'll see if
there is any flexibility, and if we can go another 100' to 150' without going through the DEP process. Discussion followed on
the 50% rule and the expectation of future extensions, and if there is any flexibility. If not, we'll adjust the policy to cover the
Town. If future expansion is not anticipated, we'll check with counsel. If DEP says yes or no and if no, well update the
policy with waiver language. Jack proposed a recommendation to accept the plan incorporating Weston & Sampson's
comments and changing the pipe from 1.5 to 2" and pending a change to the language in the extension policy. Dave made
the motion to accept the plan contingent upon incorporation of modifications from Weston & Sampson and upon
final resolution to the policy. Butch seconded. All in favor? Vote was by roll call due to Remote Participation
Policy: Carl-aye, Dave-aye, Butch-aye, Jay-aye. Vote unanimous to move forward. Jay asked about the cost summary
that Carl had requested. Barb produced a spreadsheet, but is missing amounts for the engineering and the cost to
decommission septic tank, but that it is close to
$22,000 for the east side connections, and $27,000 for the west. John R asked to be sure we know that a low pressure
system will work for this situation. Jack affirmed that the E-one people had provided a study showing that it work for their
area, and beyond. Dave pointed out, for the record, a gravity system was preferred per the CWMP. Jamie thanked the
Commission for their attention and working through this with them. The Commissioners responded in kind, that they
appreciated Jamie and the applicants working as patiently with the Commission as well. Carl pointed out that he had sent a
marked up policy with a couple small items in section 8.0 - for example the language regarding the 50% and 100% of the
betterment and, more importantly, the credit for privilege fees previously paid, that we could credit toward future privilege
fees, but not construction costs, and that if there is a betterment in the future, it would need cover all construction costs.
Barb will go through the notes and put them forward to counsel for review. Carl then added that now we have an extension
policy, that we'll need a covenant. We'll need to involve counsel but we should proceed with the covenant after our policy is
firm. It was noted though that it needs to be done as soon as possible before construction begins. All members present and
remote agreed that having the issue of the 1000' come up at this time was disturbing, that the Commission was not even
aware of it. Carl noted that he sent Barb updated extension language based on the discussion tonight in email.
CONSENT AGENDA
Pending connections - received applications to connect for 88 Whalom Rd 9/13/12, 40-46 Great Pond Rd (Emerald
Place), and 1,3,5 Jacklyn Drive - 3 connections - received permit to connect 8/29/12.
Posting of vacancy -posting had been done with no deadline date
Special Town Meeting 9/25/12 - no articles applicable to Sewer on warrant.
Asian Imperial -grease trap is in the ground -per Jack R. we'll coordinate w/ Gary Williams, Corey Dowd & Powell to set
up time mutually convenient at the time of the sewer connection to inspect interior & connections;
Weston & Sampson - Fy13 contract has been signed. Barb will give a copy of the executed agreement to Pat after the
meeting. As for the Rules & Regs review, Dave noted that we need to get the cost up front and not go hourly. With new
policies and modifications, it will be easier having the regulation in one place. Dave re-stated that we'll want the budget
number up front. Building access - discussion centered on the fees in the proposed policy being a strict policy and that
Weston & Sampson had gotten the example in use by another community, but that Pat agreed it is very strict. Also noted
was that our counsel did not agree with billing the fee in the sewer bill. Pat proposed 3 different levels of letters sent out
before any fees imposed. Residents usually comply with the first letter. We'll move forward as it is and have incorporated
into the regulations. Floor stripping policy - Pat Cotton noted that with the floor stripper compounds used, and at the
dilution by the time they get to Leominster, that they'd have no effect on pipes or pumps, and that the risk is in the biological
process. If the school had its own plant, it might be a problem. Dave asked, what is the proper disposal? Per the regs,
ether is a restricted chemical, and one of the stripping compound contains ether. Jack asked if Leominster would be likely
to say they would not like it or that they understand the dilution argument? If the compound contains a prohibited
chemica., it should be black and white and shouldn't be disposed. Barb will advise John Londa that in Weston &
===PAGE 3===
for the IMA's and would like the Selectmen to pay for legal to review. The Sewer Commission are the ones driving the
process and making recommendations to the Selectmen. 2) The documents is being review by legal at Fitchburg. Carl is
concerned about having 2 docs reviewed simultaneously and is for waiting until Fitchburg comes back with their input, than
spending money on a review that may have to re-occur. Carl wants the other Commissioners' opinion- do they wish to
recommend that we take what Fitchburg sends back and review then? The Sewer Commissioners agreed that we will
recommend to the Selectmen's office that we want Fitchburg input's to do our legal review. If they feel different and want to
go forward, they can pay. Barb will share this preference with Kerry.
Carl signed off from remote participation at 9:06pm.
Credit Request-WMHP, Unit 17, Barb summarized that Jim Carnivale was requesting a credit on Unit 17 - we had billed
them for 7 quarters at minimum charge, which equates to 7000 cf in usage. When the meter was actually repaired and
corrected, they were billed for the 4200cf showing on the meter reading. Carnivale is asking that the amount over the
minimum is credited since they have paid for usage all along. Dave asked, 'was it our mistake'? Barb said no - that it was a
meter mal-function. Dave stated that the Commission had decided the last time that if it is not our error there is to be no
credit. Dave made the motion, Butch seconded, vote taken was unanimous - no credit.
Administrative Matters- Letter to Bob Ebersole-Barb had the formal letter from the Commission thanking him for service
for their signature (Carl had signed it previously). The Commissioners signed and Dave asked if we were doing something
else? Dave asked that Barb put something together and they can all chip in next meeting. Barb stated the next Regular
Sewer meeting is Wednesday, 10/10. Barb noted that the Capital plan docs were received 9/26, for the Commission to
start thinking about Capital Planning, but that she has to concentrate this week and next on the quarterly billing. Capital
planning will be on the agenda for 10/10
Butch made the motion to adjourn, Dave seconded, vote taken was unanimous. The meeting was adjourned at 9:19 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Business Manager for the Sewer commission
