===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The special meeting was called to discuss the Lancaster Avenue extension plan and policy. Since the plan had not yet
been received from the engineers, the discussion was centered on the extension policy and more specifically to add
language addressing cases of privately funded projects. The issues discussed and agreed upon as potential revisions to the
Extension policy were:
• For privately funded projects, it is not a requirement of have 2/3 of the lots along the proposed line be in favor of
the extension
• The Sewer Commission must approve the final engineering plans after appropriate peer review which is paid for
by the applicant (Note: may not be needed if clear elsewhere)
• If the sewer line, as proposed, does not completely service the sewer zone as outlined in the CWMP, it must allow
for extension to the full service area/zone, without modification to the extension.
• At the time of completion of the installation, all lots that participate in the cost of the extension, as certified by the
applicants, shall be charged a privilege fee of 50% of the cost of the most recent completed betterment,
independent of whether they connect at that time or not.
• Once the extension has been accepted by the town, any lot along the extension will have the right to connect, at
their sole cost, once they have paid a privilege fee equal to 100% of the most recent betterment.
• If at any point in the future a betterment project is approved for this area that requires additional work in the area
of the extension, all lots along the line, including those along the extension, independent of their connection status
or cost participation in the extension, will be subject to their proportionate cost of the betterment.
• A covenant that reflects this policy will be attached to each deed along the subject extension.
These are the basic ideas and areas of concern in layman language to be sent to counsel. The Commission would like to
send them on to legal counsel for review and help in drafting the language to be included in our Sewer Extension Policy.
They also want counsel to draft a boiler plate covenant after the policy is set.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:00pm.
Respectfully submitted,
C.
'Te
Carl Luck, Chairman
-_-
