===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOb'E.
Carl L.
1 Jay S.
Butch B.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
SEWER COMMISSION
960 Mass. Ave.
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Oproved 3114/12
Minutes of February 28, 2012 Meeting held at Town Hall
The meeting was called to order at 7:00pm by Chairman, Bob Ebersole, with Carl Luck, Jay Simeone, and Butch Billotta in
attendance. Also present was Anthony Cleaves, representing Whitman & Bingham.
Bob introduced Anthony Cleaves (WBA) representing his client for the 134 Leom-Shirley Rd gas station proposal. MHF
Design is the design firm, and the property owners are SMD Development, LLC. Project is at the corner of Leominster-
Shirley Rd and Pioneer Drive. Anthony had a complete copy of the plan and gave a brief overview of the project. Like Gitto
Corporation, they'll have a forced main up Pioneer Drive, plus a grease trap for the Dunkin Donuts on site. They will be
tying into the Leominster water system. Anthony had the application filled out and can bring it to the office tomorrow. He
questioned the allocation request -whether to go by title v designs or similar sites. There will be no seats, no counter - just
a drive through. We discussed using the convenience store figures, but for the restaurant side Anthony was unsure what the
commission wanted him to use for basis. Bob suggested that the project would be reviewed by our engineers and that he
should use his best estimate. Then, when it is sent it to Weston & Sampson, they can review the figures. Anthony asked if
we wanted to stick with the 'plans on 11x17 paper' rule that Leominster requires? Bob thought that would be best. Anthony
asked about parallel approvals, with both Lunenburg and Leominster needing to review? They submitted the plans to the
planning board and was reviewed by their engineers. Bob noted that well have our own engineers. Anthony said they are
taking the Planning Board's engineers' comments and the plans have to be updated. The plans will have the external
grease trap. Barb provided Anthony the copies of both the Project Review policy and the Grease Trap Review policy to
bring back to SMD so they are aware of the Sewer Commission's requirements. Anthony brought the plans which will
change only slightly (nothing that affects the Sewer review) and gave them to Barb. Barb will get them to Weston &
Sampson for an estimate on the peer review and call Anthony. This will have to come before the Commission again once
Weston & Sampson has reviewed. We will advise Whitman & Bingham of the date.
Bob then opened up the meeting for Public Comment. Mr. Nadeau from Youngs Road was present. Bob asked Barb for
the results of the survey. Barb summarized that only about 40% of the letters sent returned a reply, and of the 40%, 60%
were for the sewer, and 40% against. Bob stated that it is not enough of a majority and that we need 2/3 to go before town
meeting so at this point it won't be presented to the Town at the Town meeting. Mr. Nadeau asked why it couldn't have been
done when the Tri-Town project went in? Bob responded that it was out of the Sewer Commission's control - they
connected directly with Fitchburg. We discussed further the responses, and determined that we could look where the
majority of the positive responses were, and if it were possible to sewer only the main road, and not the side streets. Bob
pointed out that of course, we'd leave stubs for the side roads for future expansion. He told Mr. Nadeau that we would look
at it again and let him know.
Bob went over the items on the Consent Agenda. 386 Hollis Rd-on the request to sewer up Hollis Road from Prospect.
Barb had determined that there were potentially 20 homes that could receive sewer. Bob noted that the Sewer bylaw states
that the Commission is responsible for polling for interest and that we should do a thorough review of the entire town to
study the areas of need to promote sewer being brought in. We probably need to have a workshop to discuss the
unsewered areas and where we need to grow. The Rate increase notice was reviewed that was sent with the February
bills. Remote Participation in Town Board/Commission meetings as been put before the Selectmen for approval, due to
Carl's request at the last meeting. King Info Systems had sent us information regarding their filing, scanning, storage
services. Wright Pierce had sent a request to assist the Town on the DEP Clean Water Needs Survey done every 4 years.
GENERAL DISCUSSION
Bob stated that the next item on the agenda was the Bootlegger grease trap for which Anthony Cleaves of Whitman &
Bingham was again present to speak. Anthony noted that they had reviewed the grease trap design with the proposed
expansion and he had the completed Expansion of Use form as requested. The seating had increased to 231 (it was
originally 162). The prior design is still within the specifications. Their plan is still to use the 4000 gallon septic tank, reduce
the plumbing and re-route kitchen flow. Previous calculations only required a 3000 gallon tank. With the new numbers, a
4000 gallon tank is required, so the design didn't change and only the notes were updated on the plan. Anthony provided
the new plan to each Commissioner. Non-kitchen flow bypasses the grease trap through a new connection and goes
directly to the manhole. Anthony noted that he had Weston & Sampson had verbally agreed with the updates. Bob asked if
there was a motion to approve the grease trap expansion design pending Weston & Sampson's formal approval,
===PAGE 2===
and with the same requirement that a representative for the Commission be present to inspect the work. Butch
made the motion, Carl seconded, vote taken was unanimous. Anthony was asked whether they had gotten the
necessary approvals from the ConsCom and he noted that they had. Barb to send this plan received tonight to Weston &
Sampson for approval and also a letter to the Bootlegger, once the approval is received, noting the requirements regarding
inspection, as stated on the plan.
Bob noted that we had 2 versions of a draft FY13 BUDGET to review. Barb explained that version 1 had an updated
revenue amount, plus an additional capital item in the expenses area, resulting in the need to borrow from Retained
Earnings in the amount of $74,208.40. The 2id version reduced drastically expense line items in Purchase & Service, and
Vehicle maintenance to try and lessen the amount needed from Retained Earnings to $40,208.40. Bob noted that in prior
years, the Purchase of Service accounts had been increased to about $100,000 in order to complete work in infrastructure
and engineering. These improvements are our capital expenditures and would be otherwise funded from our Retained
Earnings. The town still needs to get to where we build capital for future improvements and that we need to add users, but
at this time, he would support taking the money from Retained Earnings for the investment in infrastructure. He noted that
we could leave the reduction in Vehicle maintenance as proposed in version 2 and asked if there was a motion to accept
Version 1, with the $1000 amount removed from Vehicles? Butch made the motion, Jay seconded, vote taken was
unanimous. Budget to be put forward to the FinCom will be to take $73,208.40 from Retained Earnings for FY13.
Bob reviewed the Leominster billing basis change request, that the IMA provides for the readings of sewer flows, instead
of individual water readings, as it has been done since the outset. He noted that with the inflow issues the Commission has
been trying to address, from storm drains, sump pumps, and broken pipes, we have a slight reprieve from Leominster while
we work at reducing the I/l. We will need to plan to negotiate and update the IMA, but in the meantime we have done the
smoke testing, dye testing, camera'ing of the lines.
Along that same line, in the effort to alleviate the l/l issues, we need to communicate with the homeowners that broken
pipes draw in a lot of water, and end up in the treatment plant, increasing costs unnecessarily. Barb had updated the
homeowners letter, provided by Weston & Sampson, with more details and a deadline. Discussion followed what area has
the greater problem with the clay pipes. We'll need to discuss this with Jack and also get an estimate on the camera'ing of
Barb noted that as a result of the smoke testing done in the fall, Weston & Sampson had provided us an estimate from
NEPCCO on 2/27 for $7175 to seal & cement coat manholes & pipe connections, and install 20 inflow dishes for the
depressed manholes that were contributing to the l/l. It was discussed whether this should be done for manholes outside of
the smoke-testing area and whether the number of inflow dishes listed on the estimate was correct. Jay asked about
additional costs regarding the water department, police details, etc. Barb will check against the report and get clarification
Bob asked about the plan for decommissioning the Wallis Park manhole and whether that was a job that could be done
by the Town. He also wanted to know Jack's schedule and whether we've verified that no sump pumps remain connected.
We'll need to discuss it with Jack at the next meeting.
High School Sump Pump - Barb noted that John Londa had confirmed that they had taken care of the line between the
Brooks House and the High School, and that the sump pump had also been re-routed on 2/22 to a storm drain. Bob thanked
the schools for their prompt attention and diligence in these corrections.
Barb will be sending out the Smoke test letter soon to those residents whose property did not smoke during the Fall 2011
Smoke Testing.
Bob noted that we do not have any Town Meeting warrant articles for review yet. Warrant closes March 26. We will
discuss at the next meeting.
Bob announced that the Town Caucus will be on March 19, 2012, 7pm, at Turkey Hill Middle School. Dave MacDonald
& Butch Bilotta are both up for re-election this year. Butch is not sure whether he will run again. Barb noted that the Clerk's
office had confirmed that the terms will be for 3 years.
Town Report- Barb has provided Bob the list of activity for the year, which Bob plans to use to compose the Sewer
Commission section for the 2011 Annual Town report. He will work on the submittal, come up with a draft and send it to the
Commission before it is finalized.
Administrative Matters
Minutes for approval-Barb had sent out the minutes for 1/31/12 earlier in the day. Commission needs more time for
review. Barb will include them in the package for the next meeting on 3/14.
===PAGE 3===
Unitil - Barb summarized her conversation with John Londa on 2/27 on the power aggregation discount with Con Ed that
Dave was speaking about at the last meeting. She noted that the remaining 7 stations are included in the aggregate, while
the other 3 remain with Trans Canada until the expiration of the contract 12/1/12; Per John, they will re-negotiate the Trans
Canada contract in June 2012 timeframe and determine which is better for the Town.
Commission reviewed, approved and signed off on the 3rd Quarter FY12 Commitment/Warrant for $107,880.52.
Barb presented invoices from Weston & Sampson and Fitchburg. All were approved for payment.
Barb had talked with Corey about the home inspections that Weston & Sampson proposed doing to locate sources of
inflow & infiltration and Corey expressed eagerness to accompany Weston & Sampson if we decide to do them in order to
learn their expertise and their documentation processes. Also he has stated that we should have a VFD installed at the
Leominster Rd pump station, as we did for Mass Ave to reduce the wear & tear on the pumps. Bob pointed out that Weston
& Sampson had just completed the pump station analysis and that was not in there. Barb will check with Weston &
Sampson as to why they did not include the VFD in their report.
74 Prospect - We had a couple put in a request for a credit. They had installed a new sprinkler system, with hydroseeding,
and saw a big spike in usage (their average was 400cf and they were billed 2500 cf). They plan to install an irrigation meter
in the spring. Barb recommends that we could credit them back to minimum charge which is what they've paid for the last 3
quarters for a credit of $121.50 with the understanding that it could be rescinded if they did not install an irrigation meter.
Bob was okay with that, if that is how we have handled an adjustment in the past. As for irrigation meters, Bob wants to
check whether there are irrigation meters that can be read remotely, and if the Water department could read them at the
same time as they read their own meters. The cost of those meters could be borne by the homeowners. We'll need to look
into it since more homeowners will be installing irrigation meters and we cannot have Corey going around doing manual
readings. Bob asked for a motion to approve the credit of $121.50. Butch made the motion, Jay seconded, vote was
unanimous.
Bob announced that the next meeting was March 14 at the Ritter Building. Bob asked for a motion to adjourn the
Regular Meeting, without intent to re-open, in order to go into Executive session to discuss contract negotiations
and litigation. Butch made the motion, Carl seconded, and by roll call vote Butch-aye, Jay-aye, Bob-aye and Carl-
aye, it was agreed to enter Executive Session. Regular meeting was adjourned at 8:02 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre
Sewer Business Manager
