===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Kristin Levine introduced herself as the new reporter for the Ledger, replacing Meghan.
Appointments
Weston & Sampson - Bootlegger Grease Trap Plan review Carl noted that with all parties present, we would start with
the Bootlegger peer review of grease trap by W&S. Plan had been provided to W&S on 1/11/12 for peer review. Steve
presented the current set up of the restaurant, summarizing his review of 1/27 that had been sent to the SC on January
30th. Steve stated that they need external grease interceptor and WBA is looking to use 4000 gal septic. Currently, kitchen
flow goes to an internal grease trap. Per Steve, we need to intercept that flow and the solids and redirect. Steve noted that
the pumps behind are currently effluent (for liquid) and are to be replaced with grinder pumps to process solids. The size of
the tank is fine, but needs to be checked for water tightness. Also, they are recommended installation of a baffle wall after
tank is cleaned and checked for tightness. The baffle gives redundancy for intercepting the grease. Steve noted that WBA
had modified the plan based on W&S's initial comments, fixed the issue with the drawings of the T so that it will be visible.
There is a drawing from the 1970 installation of the original tank, specifying cast iron pipe. Need to confirm that that is what
was used and its condition. They plan to re-use some of the pipes, but if they are susceptible to infiltration, they will have to
replace them. Also recommended several cleanout at bends. WBA updated the plan based on that review and had a new
plan tonight. Brian Milisci, representing Bootlegger restaurant for WBA, provided Steve with the revised plan and with a
quick review of the issues, believes that is acceptable to W&S. The dimensions of the tank are 15 X 6.5 and 9' in depth.
They will have to get in to clean the tank, can verify dimensions at that time, and install the baffle walls. Also, the outlet t's
need to be cleaned. Carl noted that the design has been thoroughly reviewed and that the next issue to address is who
would be present at the inspection & testing? Commission determined that they would approve the proposed plan,
contingent on adding the condition that whenever the tank is opened, that a member representing the Commission is
present - whether it is Corey or possibly a representative from Weston & Sampson. Steve mentioned that to test water
tightness, once the tank is cleaned, they will fill it with water and have to wait 24hrs. Brian was asked if we are holding up
the renovation, and he responded that their plan is up before the Conservation Commission also, so we are not holding
them up. Steve noted that we can footnote the plan with the requirement to do the testing and that they must contact the
Sewer Commission to witness the testing. Brian asked if they need to come back in front of the Commission and Carl
responded that they did not, but must put in language to require inspection. Carl asked for a motion to accept the plan,
with the additional notation of the inspection. Butch made the motion, Jay seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
Steve will get a final plan and copy the commission.
FY12 Contract - Steve had submitted the new contract for FY12, with an upset limit of $15,000, and with the tasks to be
defined. W&S cannot proceed without authorization. Barb noted the hourly rates for the engineers were the same in this
contract as for FY11 contract. Carl asked if there was a motion to accept the contract at $15,000. Butch made the
motion, Jay seconded. Carl asked if there were any discussion? Steve noted that the contract would cover continuing on
with the rules & regulation review and the IMA assistance. Vote taken was unanimous.
Private Inflow Removal Program for re-review was discussed briefly. This is the program that W&S had suggested for
home inspections and Carl said they were looking for alternatives to going door-to-door. Barb noted that W&S had
recommended we adopt the Inflow removal policy and incorporate into our regulations, prior to any such inspections. Steve
noted that one of the items that will exhaust the prior contract monies is the current Review of Rules & Regulations that he
is doing for the Commission. He will do up a scope of services to finalize the review, compile all the input he has received
along with the current regulations, and then possibly hold a work session to review their findings. Steve also brought up the
Homeowners' letter draft that was just sent out to Commission, regarding the requirement to replace aging and
compromised piping with PVC. Carl determined that they would like time to review and Barb will put it on the next agenda to
discuss how and when.
Consent Agenda
Asian Imperial -337 Mass Ave.- Barb noted that the owner was in today to meet with Mike to discuss and that no
architectural plans are ready as set. The plan is still to have a tech meeting within the next month.
Sewer Service Area details added to GIS maps online -Barb noted that our sewer system has been added to the GIS
maps online. They may not be available on the general Town home page, but a link to the maps is available in the Sewer
===PAGE 2===
the article wording from his work on our Rules & Regs to do so.
Town Report - submissions will be due 2/26, based on the usual calendar and Barb asked if there were any volunteers to
put together our submission? Bob had told Barb that if there were no volunteers, he would be happy to do it again this year.
It was determined that Bob would put together a draft that the Commission would need to review at their next meeting.
BUDGET FY13- Barb stated there are no updates. She is working to complete the Q3 billing which will go out next week.
After that her focus will be on the Budget. Carl restated the details of the rate increase, including the Sewer Enterprise
Fund running in the red, and the substantial increase by Fitchburg, requiring the Commission to raise their rates by 20%. He
added that it was voted on at the 12/14/11 meeting, effective January 1st, to be reflected in the bills sent out in the April/May
timeframe. However the minimum will remain at the prior rate of $81 per 1000 cubic feet. Barb stated that she had sent to
notice of the increase to the reporter for the Ledger's on January 17th and everyone agreed that they did not see that it
made it to the paper. Barb will send it to the new reporter, present at tonight's meeting, and she will get it into the paper.
Leominster Clay pipe issues in Whalom - Wallis Park area - Barb stated she has been working with the Board of Health
and Dan Proctor to confirm that all the necessary work has been completed, and to the best of her knowledge, and Dan's, it
is complete and no further issues should exist. She has spoken with Jack Rodriquenz and the next step will be the
decommissioning of the Wallis Park manhole.
Patricia Chansky letter - Barb noted that the Commission had received a letter January 184h from a resident of Hollis Rd
requesting that it be sewered. Barb noted as well that the same resident has submitted letters in both 2008 & 2009. Carl
added that we need more customers, that she needs sewer but that residents have to provide the impetus, that we are not
the facilitators of the extension or new project. Speaking to the public viewers, Carl stated that the Commission encourages
them to do just that, to get a petition of those interested and that they need 2/3 of the residents. Butch noted that per her
letter, she was promised sewer by Joe Bilotta. She had pointed out that the trailer park got grants and got sewer. It was
stated that her area would not be difficult and would be purely gravity sewer and that she should get a hold of her neighbors,
get together and show that 2/3 of the residents in the area are interested. Butch said that he would be in favor of doing
sewer and Carl noted that she is in an area of need and that it seems logical but people have to come forward and be willing
to pay for the betterment. Carl stated again and encouraged people to come forward. Butch wants to know how many
homes could be involved and suggested that we could send a letter to the residents on Hollis to see if there is interest. Barb
will get the number of homes that would be impacted by a sewer installation in the area.
Administrative Matters
Youngs Rd. update -Barb noted that 50 letters were sent out. Of that number 12 had responded in favor of installing sewer
and against. Commission discussed that we could study the location of respondents, that we had sent the letter to many
side streets also in the vicinity. Carl encouraged the remaining 30 residents who had yet to respond please do so, so the
Commission could know the level of interest in the area. Minutes for 1/11/12 were put before the Commission for approval.
Carl asked if there were a motion to approve the minutes of January 11th. Butch made the motion, Jay seconded.
Vote taken was unanimous. Wireless capability has been installed in the Ritter and already exists in Town Hall.
Corey's laptop -Barb stated that IT was in today to get files to download to Corey's laptop. They had discussed whether
Corey needed a desktop at the DPW and it was determined that they would just have a docking station for his laptop, so
that the information was always up-to-date. Invoices - Barb presented invoices that Bob had already approved for
payment for the Commission's review. Two were from Fitchburg for sewer usage, 1 for W&S for smoke testing through
12/30/11 and the last from Koppelman & Page for counsel on the Wallis Park area. Commission discussed each one and
there was no issue with the payment of these invoices. Barb noted that there will be Munis user group meeting on the
Version 9 upgrade that Lunenburg will be installing this summer and that she is planning to attend in Tewksbury on 2/14
with other Munis users from Town. The next regularly scheduled meeting is 2/8, but it had been determined that it would
be cancelled since it falls so close to this one, being just next week. The next meeting will be February 28th. Barb noted
that there may be a workshop sometime mid-month, but that she will advise the Commissioners as soon as she can, if that
becomes necessary. Carl asked if we had learned anything further about remote access to meetings, per the new open
meeting law. Barb questioned whether it would have to be approved at Town Meeting? Carl didn't think so. Barb will check
with Kerry and advise at the next meeting.
===PAGE 3===

