===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Appointments
7:00 pm Weston & Sampson Steve Pedersen & Pat Cotton
Steve noted that they had completed the Pump station analysis -Report has been delivered Barb, Jack & Corey. Overall,
pump stations are in good shape. They've seen that the cleaning of the wet wells were done - very important. There was
alot of grease so it is important for them to get cleaned regularly. Steve mentioned that there were issues with generators -
the one at Meadowwoods wasn't working, but it has been fixed. There was also a cracked pipe at Mass 2 which was
identified and repaired. Steve noted that they had estimated the repair at $2,000 and the invoice came in at that amount.
Jack Rodriquenz noted that Hall Pump had recently done another repair, separate from these. Repair had to be done
quickly and Jack went with Hall Pump. Steve noted that the report contains suggested repairs/maintenance and the
Commission should budget $8000 for next year. Nothing too big - Corey should take a look at the list and prioritize. There
were no long term recommendations due to the station's relative age - no big ticket items need to be replaced in the 5yr
forecast. Steve noted that rodents are an issue and exterminators should be contacted before damage occurs.
Bootlegger Grease trap design review - Steve had just received Whitman & Bingham's plan for the external grease trap
today and had quickly reviewed it with their grease trap specialist. There was an old 4,000 gallon septic tank that can be
used. Bob advised Steve to begin the peer review. He can work directly with W&B and co the Sewer Commission office to
keep the Commission in the loop. When it comes time for the final recommendation for approval, he should send it to us.
Steve discussed that it would be a gravity system. Bob wants Weston & Sampson to follow all the pipes, internal & external,
to make sure that they comply with our regulations.
Rules & regs & fees review status update- Steve noted that it is not ready yet but that he hopes to have an outline soon.
Bob noted that Fitchburg is doing a review of regulations as well, focusing on grease traps, and that we may have to get
non-renovating establishments to comply, not being able to wait until they take out a permit as our regs currently require.
FY12 contract - Steve noted that they would like to have a general service contract for services going forward, that could
include work sessions, the rules & regulations review, and general work as needed. This way the Town & Weston &
Sampson would be ready when something came up. The last one was in FY11 and the review of the grease trap will be
covered by that. Last one started at $17,000, but was approved for $14,000 and Steve will probably bring in the FY12
contract for that amount again. Barb will have it on the agenda for the January 31 meeting.
Smoke & Dye Testing- Per Bob, the report was presented at the 12/14 meeting. The only remaining action is the
inspection of homes. In their discussions with Fitchburg recently, Bob was informed that it is not legal to enter a home for
inspection and Fitchburg uses their plumbing inspector. Discussion followed about having Corey do the inspections. Bob
asked Steve if he could check about the authority to enter homes in the review of regulations. Steve noted that the Board of
Health is the usual authority. Bob asked Steve to look and see how other communities accomplish these inspections. Bob
spoke of issues with the Town Plumbing Inspector and the concern of the commission whether he will keep us legal and
support the Commission's regulations. Steve continued on with the discussion of the Inflow testing regarding the 2 different
reports. The August 2011 flow metering report showed inflow issues centered in Graham St. & Leominster Road areas.
There was high inflow of 945,000gpd in those areas. The second report in December 2011 resulted from the smoke testing
and showed 85,000gpd in removable inflow (8-10%) which indicates that the issue is private inflow or sump pumps. Weston
& Sampson is proposing doing building inspections for $65,000. Steve discussed basic process - notifications are sent
from the Sewer Commission to the homeowners (approximately 450 homes in the Graham/Leom Rd section) that
inspections coming up, the scheduling of appointments, then commencing inspections, going door-to-door with a 2-person
team. If no one is home, they leave a notice to call back. Weston & Sampson uses an I-touch program, allowing them to fill
out the inspection report, take pictures, and provide report. $61,000 covers these visits to approximately 450 homes.
Discussion followed on the 2nd person in the team being a town employee to save money ($15k) but that Corey really would
not have the time it would take. Pat had presented a potential Private Inflow removal policy at a previous meeting that
should be adopted and in place prior to these inspections, that sources of private inflow once identified must be removed.
Clay pipes were considered, but would not be identified with home inspections but with camera'ing the lines. Carl would
prefer to use the fear of inspection to motivate residents, than paying for each home to be inspected. Can we do surprise
inspections, instead of giving homeowners a chance to hide or temporarily remove sump pumps? Carl maintained that the
===PAGE 2===
Grease traps cleaning - Schools - Bob moved to this agenda item since John Londa, facilities manager for the
Lunenburg Schools, was present, and while Weston & Sampson were still here to listen. John had submitted a report 1/10
for the cleanings which occurred on 12/27/11 with Corey in attendance and noted that all grease interceptors had been
cleaned out. Corey took photos. John provided 1 page summary of data, with information on Passios' 2 grease interceptors
(dishwasher & pot sink), the Primary School with 2, and the High School which only has 1 grease interceptor that is on the
dishwasher, and was installed in 2009. The HS trap is a low profile grease interceptor which doesn't work with the 25% rule.
The Middle School has the 2 oldest grease traps, and the design is substantially different from any of the other locations.
When they opened the dishwasher trap cover, the grease slid down and they were unable to get a reading. The unit is also
so old that John was unable to get the design specs and therefore didn't get depth measurements, so they weren't listed on
the summary. Pot sink is the same size trap and had the same cover, but tray at bottom was not in place so sliding grease
was not an issue. John recorded the numbers on each slip - we didn't have numbers before, so we are unable to make a
comparison between the cleaning in June 2011 and December's but now have a baseline. Bob re-stated that the grease
trap regs state that each trap should be opened weekly, cleaned monthly, but the schools had applied for a waiver. Bob
stated that the question becomes - take a risk and wait til June or have another cleaning in February or April, during school
vacations. He recommended that they issue the school a conditional waiver, accepting December's readings and doing it
again in June to see if 2 times a year will be enough. Carl questioned whether the next cleaning shouldn't be closer? If there
were 19% at 4 months, what will it be after 6 months? Also, why only 1 trap at the High School? Bob pointed out with
school renovations, he doesn't want them to have to do major work. John will look into a short term solution for the pot sink.
Barb pointed out that Corey felt it was important for a Sewer representative to be present, but he would also like one with
grease trap expertise, to know what they were looking at and its efficiency. Bob stated we would like Weston & Sampson
present at the next cleaning in June, for training Corey, for compliance, and for renovations going forward. Corey's going to
need help soon - we can't keep asking him to do more and more. Also, Bob gave John the grease trap maintenance record
and noted that he doesn't have to use the form, but must provide all the information that it lists. John added that the line
from the Brooks House to the High School has been closed and filled in, alleviating the infiltration issues. They are working
on correcting the sump pump issue in the High School.
CONSENT AGENDA
337 Mass Ave. -Asian Imperial - tech meeting will be in the Spring, demolition has begun and Bob wanted to know if the
work being done had anything yet to do with grease trap. Jack responded that it did not, and also noted that they are
changing the way the sewer will be routed to the street, to avoid cracked PVC issues. Weston & Sampson - holiday
greetings was provided to the Commission. Wireless capability on Sewer Tech laptop - Commission was advised that
Corey's laptop was delivered to office 12/19 for Corey. Broadband device is no charge but cost will be $39.99 /mo to give
Corey access around town.
Youngs Rd letter was sent out 12/30/11 as a result of discussions at the meeting of 11/29 - responses have started to
come in. Barb had 11 responses of 51, 7 for 4 against. Jack stated he has created a file with the ones received at the DPW.
Barb asked if she could have them in central file to track responses. Bob noted he has an issue with the current requirement
for 2/3 majority to install a sewer extension. Carl clarified that it was done to ensure there would be enough users if a line
went it. Bob noted that forcing residents to connect was already on the list for Weston & Sampson to review and he'd like
them to add the 2/3 rule to the review and what other towns practice as far as supporting extensions. Could we have a
section that says you have to connect within so many years? Carl stated that his position doesn't support forcing residents
to connect, that his preference is for private systems so as not to deplete local water supply. Bob stated that we need more
users and proposed requiring that people cannot replace a septic system, if they are on sewer. They can maintain it, but if it
needs to be replaced, then they must go to public sewer? He noted that St. Boniface has septic - do we let them put a new
system in, or should they go on sewer?
BUDGET FY13-Bob noted that there is no update and will be on the agenda for the next meeting.
===PAGE 3===
reason she knew of we couldn't send out letter. She has no problem, nor Bob, so Barb will re-do the letter when sne
receives the updated information from the Collectors office. Bob reviewed that they have seven betterments, and that there
were reductions throughout the process. Bob asked Barb to send the proposed letter to Carl and to Jack for one last
review before sending. Barb brought up the EPG SOLAR FARM PROPOSAL on the back land for Twin City. A local
representative came in 1/11 for permit signoff and Barb wanted to know if it should be put on 1/31 agenda. The back land
(18 ac) would be leased from Twin City. Per Bob, the back acreage is not in the Sewer Service Area so cannot be
considered for sewer so no vote is necessary. Barb will contact the representative to let them know they do not need to
attend the next Sewer meeting
Revised Sewer map as approved at 12/5/11 Special Town Meeting was provided. Bob noted that the new status of
pending was added this year to the map. Lunenburg Village shows on the map as 'pending' sewer.
Pat Cotton (W&S) brought up the proposed homeowner letter to be sent in response to the smoke & dye testing. It was
determined that it will state that it is the homeowner's responsibility to maintain their pipes and they need to contact their
plumber. Pat will send the letter to Barb in Word format with the spreadsheet of addresses to which we'll send the letter.
Emerald Place - built an office building Carousel Lane. At time of building permit app, we were told it was not an increase
to total sewer connections. However, when they came for occupancy, it was clarified that it was indeed an extra connection.
Barb alerted Jack that a permit to connect will be coming and another connection fee.
Online bill pay-Barb noted that Jeff U was working with Fidelity Bank on this before he left - we should have both online
payment and lockbox payments in place by the April billing.
Betterment deferrals for 36 Whalom & 15 Hamlin --Commissioners signed off on 2 deferral certificates for FY12.
Minutes for approval 12/14/11 - Commission had reviewed the minutes and Bob asked for a motion to approve the
minutes of 12/14/11, Butch made the motion, Jay seconded, vote taken was unanimous
Minutes - Bob has talked with Kerry about Barb's issue of participating in the meeting and taking minutes. Per Kerry, there
is some training associated with open meeting law training. We'll find out more.
Barb noted that the only scheduled time off before 1/31 is January 20th.
Next meeting - Regular Sewer meeting - January 31 - Town Hall - Carl will be not be there... Commission members
discussed new rulings allowing remote participation in public meetings, if there is a quorum already present. However the
Town still needs to adopt measure and the Sewer Commission would have to also agree to allow it as well.
Bob asked for a motion to adjourn to go into Executive session to discuss contract negotiations (Fitchburg IMA) an
itigation (Hollis Hills), and not resume the regular meeting? Butch made the motion, Carl seconded, and by roll call vot
each member voted to enter Executive Session to discuss strategy related to contract negotiations. Regular meeting was
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre
Sewer Business Manager
