===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Mike Nault in attendance. Also present were Barb Lefebvre, Business Manager and Bob Ebersole, BOS Liaison.
Carl announced that our first appointment with Paul Michaud, 9 Pratt St was cancelled. Mr. Michaud wanted to
discuss sewering of Pratt St., but he plans instead to attend the meeting on 6/11.
Carl opened the general discussion and first on the agenda is the election of officers. Jay made the motion to
keep the officers as they currently are (Carl Luck, Chairman, Jay Simeone, Vice-Chairman, Dave MacDonald,
Clerk), Butch seconded the motion, vote taken was unanimous.
Town Meeting results - Carl noted that we had 2 items on the warrant at Town Meeting. Article 17 was the budget,
and Carl stated that they are happy to say that they passed a balanced budget this year, not taking any monies from
Retained Earnings. The unfortunate side is that a rate increase was necessary. It is effective April 1, 2013 and will be
reflected in the July billing. Article 24 was for two (2) corrections to the SSA map. One was to remove the Tri-Town
Landing parcel from the sewer district because it is serviced directly from Fitchburg. The other change was a
correction to add four (4) parcels on Leominster Rd. to the Sewer Service Area that had been inadvertently left off the
map and have access to sewer. Carl stated that that was all that was asked for at the Town Meeting and that both
articles were approved.
BOS liaison - Carl announced that with the new elections to the Board of Selectmen, that the Board has selected
Bob Ebersole, who is present tonight, as liaison to the SC and the Commission is happy to welcome him. Bob
previously served the Commission as Chair.
Sunset Ave extension - Barb noted that we had sent out the mailing on 5/20 and had received 30 responses to date
(57% positive. Carl reviewed for the audience that a resident had come forward proposing to connect an extension.
He has worked with neighbors and that the Commission sent a letter out to poll the neighbors. After sending the letter
out, we received a letter from resident that he'd like to address here on TV as others may have the same concerns.
Carl read the letter:
"To Whom it may concern: This email is to show our support for the extension of town sewer to our property. I would
like to point out two things in regards to our vote. The first is the fact is that this is not anonymous. We had already
signed the petition stating our interest by the neighbors on Sunset Ave. Why make it so official after the fact? Two, I
would think that at this stage in the game we have homes in Lunenburg that are part of sewerage system, you can't
get better numbers on the cost to connect after 3 years (you based it on 2010 assumptions)? We would like to
connect to sewer but would prefer to have numbers that are more solidified than the estimates that were put forth in
the mailing. Thank you, Jennifer & Gregg Stevens, 29 Lakeview Ave.". Carl stated that they make excellent points
and he'd like to address them: As for the petition to all the residents, in the Commission's Policies & Procedures, we
are required to go right to the residents to ensure there is 2/3rds interest in doing a sewer extension. We have to do
our due diligence so that everyone is solicited and we have an official count. The 2nd part is that we want to provide
an estimated cost and that there is a cost to the residents. Each one who connects or has access to sewer would
have to pay their share of the cost of the project. As far as the estimated cost, the 2010 figures come from
CWMP(Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan) for which the Town spent about $200,000 which provided,
among other things, the estimated costs to sewer. Since that time there has been no need to go out and get
updates, so that is the most recent and best we can share. The cost that we shared is the same technology as
proposed in the CWMP. Before going forward, the project needs engineering and we need to go before Town
Meeting with more accurate information. Carl stated that he hopes that explains and that he wants any other areas of
Town interested in connecting to sewer to come forward as well. Barb noted that another issue that had come up was
that not all roads in the proposed extension area were town accepted roads, so we are working on that. Mike noted
===PAGE 2===
Monday, 6/17, and the anticipated award date is 6/20. We may need an extra meeting for discussion or will it be up to
the subcommittee of Dave & Mike? We have another meeting before the deadline and we'll know more at that point.
Meeting is 6/11. Mike thanked Barb, Jack and Kerry for their good work on the RFP.
Sewer Rules & Regulations - Barb had finally heard back from counsel, that he should have something to us by
the 1st week of June. Illegal connection policy - The issues we have for both the recourse for non-payment and the
illegal connection penalty amnesty program policy as part of the Rules & Regs, cannot be implemented until the Rules
& Regulations come back from legal and go through the approval process of public hearing, publication for 2 weeks,
and acceptance. Carl wanted to clarify for the audience - the Commission wants to be sure everyone is legally
connected. He stated, "if you are connected and not getting a separate sewer bill from your water bill, come in and
see us before the regulations go into effect".
Use of Project Funds - Carl noted that there are some funds available from the original sewer project, and we need
to determine how to use these funds. The Commission has a lot of things on our plate, but this needs to be
determined quickly and asked Barb to put it on the agenda for June. Carl asked the Commissioners to think about it,
come up with ideas, and that we really need to try to get it tied down in June. Carl noted that we have not gotten a
definitive date from Kerry when these funds have to be used. Jay suggested that anything we can do to improve the
pump stations would be worthwhile, Carl added the I/l situation is another area. Barb noted, per Kerry, that the funds
must be used for the original purpose for which the funds were approved at Town Meeting.
Fitchburg MA - Carl provided the update that he had spoken with Joe Jordan, and that it is still with his legal group.
Another item that will need to be on a future agenda is the Highfield capacity issue of 30,000 gpd that is not included
in the proposed IMA. Per Carl, Joe did not think it would be a problem. Carl stated that we need to reach out to
Higntields, wno is still in the process ot elk (environmental Impact Report w/DEP). But we need to notify them that
we need a commitment, some formal document in the form of a commitment, which will commit them to what they
verbally agreed, that they would provide $ up front for the capacity. Joe Jordan is still trying to have the IMA in place
for the beginning of the fiscal year.
Administrative Matters
Barb had a couple notices from the Planning Board. One was for a Public hearing on June 10 in Town Hall on a
Development Plan review with RIW Realty for Janet Lane. Barb noted that when she spoke to Marion on 5/23, Marion
did not have the specifics, the plans were with the engineers, but that she didn't believe it involves sewer. The second
notice was a Tech Meeting for the new High School with the architect on 6/18/13. Jay asked if someone from the
Commission needed to be there. Barb stated that usually the tech meetings are when all the department heads of
any impacted groups attend and advise as to what they will need. Barb added she had 3 Invoices for their review.
Leominster & Fitchburg's usage invoices that came in as she'd expected. Fitchburg for $11,153.33 and Leominster's
for $44,513.55. In addition, she had Koppelman & Paige's invoice for legal services for April of $527.00. Carl signed
off on all 3. Barb noted we had 3 OT reports for 4/30, 5/6, 5/21 and that she had some vacation days next week but
Tuesday, 6it1 and that Cat pil hot be there for that one or an2 Jandal Shai those mat thg sext meeting was
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn, Butch made the motion, Mike seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was
adjourned at 7:42.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Lefebvre
Sewer Business Manager
