===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The first appointment was 165 Mass Ave - GREASE TRAP. Seema Williams introduced herself and that she had recently
taken over where Ugly Omelette used to be. New restaurant will be called Kaboblicious, indian infused, middle-eastern
cuisine. There is a 6 burner stove, oven, 1 friolator and a grease trap. There is no dishwasher and all the dishes will be
paper for take-out. She will have occupancy for 24, but not planning on seating for 24 since it is mostly to-go. There is a
3bay sink. She added that Gary Williams came to inspect and is okay with what is here. She would like to get the
Commission's permission. Carl asked what the state requirements are for her facility. Seema noted that she didn't change
anything from Ugly Omelette and she will clean 2 times a year, and clean the friolator quarterly. Carl noted that the regs
require cleaning every 30 days. Carl asked about the friolator. Seema said she would have someone come and take out oil
and have it serviced. Carl stated that there are 2 issues - 1) Confirm that she complies with state, as noted in the regs and
need it in writing and 2) next step with the inspections, that she plan to do more frequently at the beginning until we know
She stated that she is waiting on the Sewer Commission's approval to open. Carl said that a temporary order can be done,
but she needs to confirm with Gary and send something in writing that it complies, and then the only other item for
consideration is the cleaning. She must inspect weekly, and submit logs. Bottom line: she needs to talk to Gary and as long
as everything is fine, the Commission is good to go.
Carl asked that with John Godfrey present he would rearrange the agenda to address the Highfield Village allocation. Carl
has 2 copies of the Allocation agreement, which Carl signed, and John can take to have Kathleen of Lunenburg Nominee
Trust sign as well. Carl summarized for the Commission what has gone on with the agreement, the flow, and the added I/l
which allows the Commission to make a commitment to Fitchburg. Jay asked how the MEA approval was going and John
stated that they had to do an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) which was submitted in February. They received
comments back on the EIR in April, one of which pertains to the Fitchburg IMA. They have replied to the comments and are
now waiting on MEPA"s response to their comments which they expect to have by 8/27. He believes that they will issue the
final EIR and then Highfield will go back to the Planning Board for approval. But the IMA can't be completed without the
allocation being in place. John asked if there were any other issues with Fitchburg. Carl noted that they had agreed to the
document in principal but had to go to their City Council for approval. He added that he did not see any issue with the
Lunenburg Selectmen also approving the IMA, since it had been approved by two of the Selectmen already. John was
concerned and asked if anything else could possibly hold this up with Fitchburg? Carl thought everything was positive and
that Fitchburg wanted to move forward with the John Fitch Highway improvement. John added that he had another issue in
that he had to have an agreement with Mr. Saliba for an entrance to the development from Northfield Rd. to meet with the
approval with the Planning Board. The area called Blueberry Hill is a 35ac lot and once a road was constructed could
support 16 or 17 lots that have all perked. But, he added, that it would protect the quality of the project if they were included
in the overall project. Butch pointed out that to extend the Sewer Service Area (SSA), it would need approval at Town
Meeting. Carl wanted to hold to the WMP and only make exceptions when it is impossible for other systems to be
installed. Carl reviewed for John the scope of the CWMP and the areas of need, and that they'd had one case that couldn't
perk and the Commission did go to Town Meeting with the recommendation for inclusion in the SSA. John re-stated that if
rules have changed and those lots couldn't perk, that the Commission might be receptive to their inclusion. Carl noted that
all alternative systems would need to be ruled out. John stated that they will get the Allocation Agreement executed and
Carl would verify that Fitchburg was all set. Barb added that the Commission was still awaiting an acceptable plan. John
said he will have one sent. The chairman made it clear that the sewer line cannot extend beyond the SSA. It is the
developer's right to put sewer lines on his property but that no connection can be shown or made. It is at the developers
own risk to install lines past the SSA boundary since any addition to the original plan would have to have peer review. John
stated that they will hopefully be in position to start work in the spring and that the one thing not in their control was the IMA
but he will check with MEPA after the comments are received on 8/27/13. Jay noted that the Planning Board would like a
member of the Commission to attend their meeting and explain the status of the project with the Commission. Butch noted
that we can do that in a memo. Jay added we need to spell it out with documentation, that we do not have a plan yet. Jay
noted that Kent had said they have everything but MEPA approval, but that they haven't put a sewer plan on the table yet.
Barb will send a memo to the Planning Board and Carl will talk with Joe Jordan from Fitchburg on the status of the IMA.
John will return the fully-executed Allocation Agreement to Barb once he has all the signatures.
===PAGE 2===
Carl moved on to the next agenda item, Project Evaluation (PEF)- Sunset Ave/Pratt St. and updated the Commission
that Kevin Olson from Wright Pierce had come out to do a site walk of the area earlier that day in preparation for the PEF.
The Commission discussed Pratt St., and that we'll need to get a letter out to determine interest, and that they wanted to
have Kevin include it in the project for now. Carl will also talk with Kerry about Pratt. Kevin had submitted a task order for
the work on the PEF for $2900, which Carl signed
Illegal Connection Amnesty 8/1-10/31/13 - Carl noted that the Amnesty program for Illegal connections had begun and
was featured in a Sentinel article, a copy of which was provided to all present. Mike commented that the article was very
good. Barb asked that the Sewer office get a subscription to the local paper as many times there are stories about the
Commission that she doesn't get a copy of. It was decided that the office should subscribe to the Ledger which Barb will do.
The Commission discussed whether a letter should be sent regarding the amnesty program to all parcel owners on Sewer.
Barb reviewed the recent interest in permits to connect on the Lancaster Ave Extension - and that they'd encounter the
price increase-from $1760 to $2250 (min.) plus $220 per BR charge. It was determined that she should contact town
counsel, Jeff Blake, to see if there would be any issue charging the new fee to those who originally started the process.
Carl noted that Outsourcing of Pump Station Operation and Maintenance had formally begun as of 8/1 with guidance
from Corey, and 8/10 Small Water went on their own. The Commission reviewed the logs sent to Jack, cog Barb. Carl
mentioned that he had done a ride-along. Mike added he would like to do that, and also view a grease trap. Carl added that
during his ride-along he had talked with Bruce about reducing call-outs to zero.
Barb noted that we had a new Finance Committee Liaison per the email from Kerry on 8/6. His name is Jason Smith.
She added that the Q1 billing went out 8/2/13 and the total of the Sewer billing Commitment was $169,419.63, which the
Commission signed. Barb noted that there were two permits to connect since the last meeting, both for Emerald Place -
49 Carousel and 55 Carousel, and the next meeting would be August 27 at Town Hall at 7pm.
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn. Butch made the motion, Jay seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was
adjourned at 8:53 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
arbara Lefebvré
Sewer Business Manager
