===PAGE 1===
Minutes for Sewer Commission Meeting of June 27, 2014 - DPW, 5 20 Chase Rd. 
Attendees:  Carl Luck, Dave MacDonald, Mike Nault, Troy Daniels.  Also Present: Jack 
Rodriquenz, DPW Director  Absent: Butch Bilotta 
Guests:  Kevin Olson and Matt Corbin of Wright Pier ce 
 
Meeting was opened by Carl Luck, Chairman, at 1:54 p.m. 
 
There was no public comment.  Meeting was for the re view of proposal from Wright Pierce for 
sewer extension(s) for Lakeview/Pratt. 
Mr. Luck  wanted clarification regarding the terms.  Mr. Rodriquenz  informed Wright Pierce 
(hereinafter WP) that the Sewer Commission (hereina fter SC) had discussed the proposals 
received from WP and Weston & Sampson and that the discussion resulted in questions regarding 
the terms. Mr. Luck  wanted to also identify risk areas of the project.   Kevin of WP (hereinafter 
Kevin)  stated that the risk areas would be around Lakevie w - Sunset/Harris, the location of the 
STS, topographical.  There would need to be research before the proposal would be carried out, 
until then they would not know.  They could look at Google maps, but they are not 100%, he 
stated that is was “not that big a risk” to WP, but that he did not know, not 100%.  The “end game” 
would be in the easements and recording requirement s.  The budget he hoped would be more 
than needed.  There would need to be deed research, property searches.  More or less there 
was “plenty in the budget and we are not going to u se it all.”  Mr. MacDonald  Asked about the 
significance of the amount.  “The $2.2 M was just in  case, a cushion.”  “$2 M would be on the 
high end”  Kevin “We’re on the same page.”  Mr. Rodriquenz  Asked about the contingency and 
felt there was some gray area.  Mr. Luck  “I don’t see as a contingency” there is nothing in  the 
contract for legal, so it is not contingency.  Mr. Rodriquenz Asked WP what was typical for a 
$2.2M job.  Kevin Typically 10-15%.  Mr. Rodriquenz  Stated that overall it is wise to have a 
minimum of 10%.  Mr. Luck  $1.8m included contingency based a lot on the SRF t o make sure 
that there would be enough.  Construction contingen cy is in there.  Kevin Yes, we have it.  Mr. 
MacDonald  The contingency changed on the basis of starting at  $1.8M, then $2.0M and going to 
$2.2M.  Kevin It should be enough.  Mr. MacDonald  Asked if Kevin thought the budget was 
adequate and how WP would get paid.  Kevin Referred to the section of the proposal that was 
the source of question, stating that it would be up  to the town/SC.  Using $200K as an example, 
there could be a lump sum meaning that SC would agr ee to pay $200K for the scope of services, 
payment could be phased, it would have to managed c arefully by WP.  Mr. Luck and Mr. 
Rodriquenz  asked if that would be the equivalent to a contrac t “not to exceed.”  Kevin  stated that 
it was effectively the same.  Mr. Luck  If fixed lump sum means that we/Lunenburg would no t pay 
less.  Kevin of WP  “Yes.” It would be time and materials (T&M) not to exceed guesstimate. WP 
would bill monthly.  They might overrun, it would be  very lean, but there would be a chance that 
they could under run.  Mr. Luck “Not to exceed” would mean that WP would be taking the risk.  
Kevin  Not to exceed is something that happens outside th e scope, it is not envisioned.  If there 
was something outside the scope WP would come back and renegotiate and make amendments. 
He realized that contradicts.  Mr. MacDonald Usually a lump sump works differently.  “not to 
exceed” is not the exceed but less can be paid. Ask ed if the lump sum would be paid up front.  Mr. 
Rodriquenz said that a lump sum would not be paid up front and  that he preferred ‘not to exceed.’ 
Kevin said that lump sum they would still bill monthly an d that he would keep track of the 
percentage complete.  SC/DPW would agree with the i nvoice or call.  Mr. Rodriquenz  clarified 
that if the monthly billing did not exceed the cont ract amount that that would be okay with WP.  
===PAGE 2===
Kevin “Yep” only the number is a guesstimate.  Mr. Rodriquenz Any contracted consultant 
usually pushes back on a not to exceed, typically, surprised here, particularly with the second bid. 
He confirmed with Kevin.  Kevin  agreed.  He stated, “It may be less.” Mr. Luck Asked if there 
was a way to get to less, to reduce the scope of wo rk.  Mr. Rodriquenz  There could be 
differences between 600 or 700 feet of line, 3 or 4 different places, it would be less for the 
contractor, the submittals (invoices and explanatio ns) should be simple.  Kevin  agreed.  Mr. 
Rodriquenz It will be established after the first back and for th  Kevin “Bingo.”  Mr. Rodriquenz  
we were burned with the pump stations.  The owner pa ying for multiple reviews.  There should 
be no question about what to review or looking for problem.  Multiples would become the 
responsibility of the contractor.  Kevin agreed.  Mr. Rodriquenz  We’re looking to protect the 
owner  Kevin when the client is happy WP is happy.  Mr. MacDonald  WP has a 21 1/2 work 
round up.  Kevin There may be some other risk, WP is comfortable wit h the fee format, it is 
dependent on the contractor hired, how many feet pe r day, production of the contractor, how many 
fee in a day.  What time of year, this is an estimate. Recommend field inspection 860 hours 
estimate.  Depends on contractor, unexpected.  Howe ver, WP comfortable with their proposal. 
Kevin stated they’ve done some preliminary independ ent review.  All of the numbers ended in the 
middle.  Mr. Rodriquenz  The risk would be on WP.  Kevin gave example of Hudson (Tony), 
contractor ran under.  We cannot manage the contrac tor’s means/methods.  Mr. MacDonald  
Calculated that WP was comfortable with the roughly  $77 hr./$3200 week.  Kevin Agreed.  Mr. 
Luck  Asked if there was an ability to put in contract.  Mr. Rodriquenz  Means/Methods acceptable, 
deal with results, stated it was illegal to manage means/methods, goals and speed could be. 
Discussion about penalty clause and bonus clause, l iquidated damages, all agreed it would not be 
contained within the contract.  All commissioners a greed it best to leave in the not to exceed.  
Kevin  discussed how to manage contractors and police det ail.  Recommended not forcing two 
crews on contractor.  Clarified that there were not  two RFPs.  Mr. MacDonald affirmed.  Kevin  
based on feedback may recommend to contractor a sta rt area.  Mr. MacDonald  They are two 
different types one T/E and one gravity fed. Kevin  which gets back to means and methods.  
Discussion about a bonus for completing job early.  All agreed no.  Mr. Nault  “Time saved is the 
bonus.”  All agreed to ‘not to exceed’ contract.  Mr. Rodriquenz stated that he was “impressed” 
with outcome.  Kevin  stated that if there were any legitimate changes i n the scope of work or 
design changes it was incumbent upon them to notify  SC/DPW for agreement amendment.  Mr. 
Rodriquenz  Confirmed that WP was comfortable with numbers for  Sunset potential with not to 
exceed.  Kevin  WP is comfortable with the number, we have spoken to several contractors and 
put together an aggressive proposal, it has been lo oked at several times.  Mr. Luck  asked if there 
was anything in the project that WP thought was ove rkill or that drove costs unnecessarily.  Kevin  
No. Stated to the contrary.  Mr. MacDonald  asked about ledge on Pratt.  Mr. Rodriquenz  
confirmed that Whalom Rd did not have ledge when wa ter was run, sewer would be at same 
elevation or higher, water assumes pressure.  Grave l was found, which is unusual.  Kevin  RFP 
not just boring (soil sample), also doing hollow st em augers, spaced 300 feet.  Chance of ledge at 
Whalom/Pratt is small.  At Whalom there is a nine f oot deep manhole  Mr. MacDonald  if wide 
profile, pipe might to be encased Kevin  We still need survey, ledge profile from borings. Kevin  We 
will put together a not to exceed for field inspect ion phase based on 860 hours at rate, deal with 
otherwise by amendments.  Mr. MacDonald  Asked how the police detail would be billed.  Kevin  
Survey should not need a police detail, possibly bo rings.  Estimate $50K for police detail for 
project.  Matt of WP SRF funding does not allow for police detail i n construction contract, police 
detail will be billed to town.  Mr. MacDonald  Asked who kept track of police detail hours.  Mr. 
===PAGE 3===
Rodriquenz Police detail will have to be managed, requires con tractors to give two weeks advance, 
does not allow four hour minimums through managing notice, have to work with contractor.  Matt  
of WP recommended reinforcing notice requirement of  two weeks in pre-construction phase.  
Kevin  guessed that police detail would run $2K for desig n phase. He would coordinate for/with 
driller, anticipates 3 days drilling, field inspect ion.  WP will also track hours. Mr. Rodriquenz  
resident has to sign off. 
 
Mr. MacDonald  made a motion to accept the proposal with final re view of the not to exceed 
contract and addendum for field inspection, in the amount of $198,300.00 to Wright Pierce.  Mr. 
Luck  was authorized to inform Wright Pierce, in writing , that the contract is accepted without further 
motion.  Mr. Daniels  seconded.  Vote taken was unanimous. 
 
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn. Troy made the m otion, Dave seconded. Meeting was adjourned 
at 3:30pm.  
    
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Troy Daniels, Member 