===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
• The newest Commission member, Troy Daniels, was introduced, and the Commissioners agreed that they are very happy
that Troy is joining us, there is lots of work to do and it is good to have a full board; Troy is connected to the sewer, the only
member on the Commission that is.
• Pool filling, gardening, lawn sprinkling, and seeding new lawns will be starting up. It is important to submit an adjustment
request to the Commission office if you do not want to pay for the water that will not go into the sewer. The forms are
available on our website.
• Grease trap reports due still for food service establishments, and the annual permit fees are due 7/1. As a reminder to
Food Service Establishments, fees are $50 if we have all pumping, inspection reports, or $100 or $250 depending on your
compliance
• Inflow/Infiltration work is going on in the Whalom area. 2 slides were shown to the TV audience with the streets involved,
and the details of the inspections. It will be discussed further down the agenda.
Current Business
Town Election was 5/17/14 and with our new Commissioner, Troy Daniels, we are complete. As such, Election of Officers is
required with the departure of Jay Simeone and the arrival of Troy. After some discussions, Dave nominated Carl Luck as
Chair, Troy seconded, vote taken was unanimous. Mike nominated Dave MacDonald as Vice-Chair, Troy seconded, vote taken
was 4 in favor, 1 opposed. Dave nominated Mike Nault as Clerk, Troy seconded, vote taken was unanimous. New officers: Carl
Luck, Chairman, Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chairman, and Mike Nault, Clerk.
Sewer Commission Projects update
• I/l reduction project in Whalom area() - Per Weston & Sampson email received today: Approximately 53 out of 170
homes have not scheduled appointments, no homeowners have refused entry, 65 of the 108 inspections were pre-
scheduled, 43 of the 108 inspections were people who answered the door-to-door knocking, 55 homes have been visited
with no one home and yellow notices were left, 15 homes have been visited with no one home and red second final notice
left. 2 sump pumps have been located. Good start. We should have a report next week. Project should be done by June 1.
SCADA System) - Jack is proceeding with procurement.
•
Lakeview/Pratt extension (Dave) - For the 2 sewer extensions approved at Town meeting, the next step is to find
engineering. We must submit a final application to the state due in October. Need to get engineering going to be on board
to have project completed by May 2016. Car & Jack met with Kevin Olson of Wright Pierce last week. Kevin had provided
a draft scope, and Jack provided good input with his past experience. We should have the final draft from Wright Pierce by
the end of the week. Carl would like to schedule a meeting next week to review. Commission agreed to meet Wednesday,
6/4 at 5pm at the DPW. We'd like to have an engineer on board by 7/1, engineering design for the application by 10/1, and
total design complete by the end-of-year. Discussed whether a full RFP is required, or just a request for 2 or 3 quotes. Carl
had spoken with Kerry, and a full RFP is not necessary on horizontal work, but that we should follow Mass. procurement as
a guide. We have 2 vendors so far, Wright Pierce and Weston & Sampson. Commissioners agreed it would be good to get
an 'outsider as well. Commission discussed whether it should be advertised, and consensus was that it could only help.
• SWSS Generator Maintenance (Butch) -We received the proposal for time and materials to get the generators up and
running, Carl gave the go-ahead via email, cc'g Butch. Per Jack, the work has commenced. With the new fiscal year
approaching, we need a new proposal, incorporated into the SWSS contract.
• Capacity Fee Policy (Carl) - Carl has crafted a Capacity Fee Policy which was sent to the Commission, so that new
users help fund capacity costs. Its first goal is to recover the cost of reserve capacity, the2nd being to establish a fund for
future capacity. This only applies to projects not yet bettered or permitted for sewer connection. Fee will be due at the
time the betterment is assessed, not at time of connection. Highfield Village is an easy model as they just purchased
===PAGE 2===
letter. The fees and levels of compliance were discussed. It was proposed to bill $50 for now, depending if they send
reports in in response to letter. A letter will be sent, with an invoice and a copy of the policy and the report forms. Form will
be checked to make sure that it is clear that they should be returned to the Commission office. It was noted that the
planse during the previous year, meaning
regulation states the basis of annual fees is whether the permittee was in compliance during the previous year, meaning
most permittees are in Tier 3, fully non-compliant, and the fee would be $250.
• Business Systems and Process Improvement (Carl) - Carl stated that he is working on these, starting with minutes from
meeting, the new format used with the most recent minutes.
• Flow Rate/Metering (Mike) - Mike noted that he's been monitoring the flow meters and that he plans to go to the next
calibration visit. Discussed SWSS's intent to monitor the meters and whether they have been doing so. The cost of the
police detail during the inspections is a concern, and the frequency may be re-visited. Carl added that given many factors,
including the 1st year of the SWSS contract coming to an end, we need to have SWSS come to the next meeting, June 10.
They should provide their proposal for FY15 to include the stations, generators, and flow meters for review the Friday
before the meeting if the can, even SCADA if possible. We need to have them provide a report on the generators at that
time as well.
4th Quarter Commitment of $150,722.94 was signed. 691 bills were sent out 5/22/14.
SWSS pump station reports for weeks ending 4/18, 4/25, 5/2, 5/9 had no major problems indicated.
Minutes -Carl asked if everyone had reviewed the minutes and were prepared to accept. August 13, 2013 - Butch made the
motion, Mike seconded, Carl, Mike and Butch voted to approve. March 25, 2014 -Butch made the motion to approve, Dave
seconded, Carl, Dave and Butch voted to approve. May 13, 2014 -Dave made the motion, Mike seconded, Carl, Mike and
Butch voted to approve. April 29, 2014-Butch made the motion, Mike seconded, Carl, Mike and Butch voted to approve.
Business Manager reports - Highfield Village - Continuation Hearing was moved to 6/23 per Marjorie in the Planning office.
She also advised today that the plan was uploaded to the town website today. Lunenburg Village -per Lisa for ZBA, there is a
meeting on this project 5/28 7pm Town Hall. Carl plans to attend the televised meeting. Invoices -Fitchburg, Leominster,
Wright Pierce, Koppelman & Paige(2), and Weston & Sampson were all approved for payment. Wright Pierce's invoice
completes Task Order #4 for preparation for Town Meeting.
Adjournment - Butch made the motion to adjourn, Troy seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was adjourned at
8:19pm.
Respectfully submitted,
aro Letebvre, Business Manager
Documents in meeting:
New handouts- Wastewater Capacity Charge Policy draft 5/27/14, Draft minutes 4/29/13
Meeting package: I/1 project status email 5/19/14, Sewer Extension Scope of Services email 5/16/14, SRF timeline of 5/20/14,
Generator proposal and email 5/2/14; Draft minutes: 8/13/13, 3/25/14, and 5/13/14; SWSS Pump station reports 4/19, 4/26, 5/3
& 5/10/14.
