===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
one where as it would deviate from the construction techniques as defined in the CWMP and would need all the
same covenants be signed before approval to proceed. It was not clear if Jack had seen and commented on the
plans. No actions or votes taken.
Town Meeting: Reviewed three warrant articles that were approved at TM with little to no discussion. Only question
from the floor was from a resident who was not affected by the Pratt/Lakeview extension project but wanted to know
what the cost per resident would be. The average for all participants was provided at~$27,000 for each lot.
FY15 Budget approved
Map approved
SRF Funding approved
Highfield Village: Informed the Commission that the hearing scheduled by the Planning Board has been postponed.
No new information or issues relative to sewer.
SCADA: Jack has been given the authority to use the original quote plus details provided by Jay to initiate contract
with SWSS and service provider for data transmission
Pratt/Lakeview Extension: Commission agreed that even if not required, we would solicit proposals from at least
three engineering firms for this project. Two will be Weston Sampson and Wright Pierce. Jay suggested the firm that
did an extension in Concord, Woodward and Curran out of Andover. Jack's input and suggestion of potential firms
will also be sought
I/l Reduction: Reviewed home visit report after the first day and a half of inspections. A summary was provided:
Approximately 110 out of 170 homes have not scheduled appointments
Our inspection team has been well received and no homeowners have refused entry
26 of the 36 inspections were pre-scheduled
10 of the 36 inspections were people who answered the door-to-door knocking
23 homes have been visited with no one home and yellow notices were left
To date, one sump pump has been discovered. A second update will be provided on 5/19.
Generator Maintenance: Jack has been given the go ahead to schedule the "major" maintenance/check-up on the 10
pump stations with SWSS on a time and material basis. In parallel, he will get an updated proposal for FY15
operation contract which includes generator maintenance. Butch was absent but may have additional information on
the status to this task.
===PAGE 2===
Permits to Connect: 115 Fairview Rd. issued last month
Minutes: None approved
Jay Simione Farewell: the Commission unanimously thanked Jay for his contributions to the Sewer Commission and
let him know that we would be very happy to have him back some day.
Adjournment: the meeting was adjourned at approximately 8:30.
Respectfully submitted,
Carl Luck, Chairman wil
