===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lefebvre, Business Manager.
FY15 BUDGET
Carl started the discussion of the FY15 budget. Barb noted that any boxes that were highlighted were
items up for discussion. Barb pointed out the Sewer bank fee and that there was an entry in both income
and expense for the l/l required remediation. Commission discussed the Highfield capacity figure and
determined that it should not appear. Carl provided the backup to the situation with Highfield and added
that he'd like to discuss in the future whether to charge the same capacity charge to all new connections.
The Commission discussed the potential charge, whether it would be only commercial or residential as
well, and whether it is just for Fitchburg flow customers, since per the IMA we pay for the capacity, or
whether we'd charge for Leominster flow customers as well. In reviewing Utilities, Mike brought up whether
we had checked with Unitil about 'losing a leg', since we were billed for labor and materials for the damage.
Jack noted we had submitted for a similar issue and were denied a credit. Commission all felt we should
attempt it anyway. In Purchase of Service, the $50,000 for engineering of the proposed extension with the
SRF loan was removed - we will request appropriation at Town meeting and it should not be a line item on
our budget. As for Outsourcing, the Commission all agreed that they are very happy with Small Water
Systems. Jack had talked to Debbie and she stated she would go with 2.5% over last year for next year,
with the labor rate staying the same at $68/hr. For Year 3, she would ask for 2.5% again, but raise the
labor rate from $68 to $70/hr. The Commission were satisfied with that offer. The Commission discussed
Project funds and getting it used soon for Infrastructure expenses. Commission discussed the SCADA
system as well, and whether we could use Mass broadband that is all over town. The Commission was
concerned that the Fitchburg usage was quite high. Barb will check invoices to ensure there was no error
for Fins. After discussion, and with the method going vrate was fow meters, it was decided to leave the
Fitchburg amount as is.
Commission determined to reduce Leominster usage amount as it seemed high
to balance the budget. Carl asked if Small Water had checked the flow meters as they had committed to do
it monthly at the inspection on 12/20. Barb will check.
Otherwise, budget is balanced again for the second year. Carl asked for a motion to adjourn. Butch made
the motion, Jay seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Workshop was adjourned at 7:56pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Lefebvre
Business Manager/for the Sewer Commission
