===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bit a nance. As presen were dack Rodriguenz, Dr Director, Bard Letebvre, Business Manager,
Pat Cotton, W&S. Absent, Mike Nault.
7:00 PM Public Comment - none
Announcements
1. Commission vacancy - Carl announced that we have a one opening on the Sewer
Commission. Jay has decided not to run again. Anyone already hooked up to Sewer
interested in running would be even better. Speak to a Commissioner for more information.
2. Grease trap reports due -For the restaurants in town, the Commission is still having trouble
getting reports from those with grease traps, they'd rather not resort to fines, but that they
may have to since we are not getting reports timely.
3.
Pamphlets- found in Town Hall with "Solutions to storm water pollution"- Under swimming
pool/spa section, instructs readers to drain into the sewer system. Please do not do that -
Sewer has to pay to have processed
Carl noted that he was going to change around the order of the agenda a little. He introduced Jack
for the DPW Director Operations Update- 1) new proposal for I/l reduction Jack noted that W&S
has given us a proposal to help find Inflow/Infiltration (I/I). Next phase is to go door to door doing
house inspections for possible inflows such as sump pumps. Jack invited Pat Cotton from Weston &
Sampson (W&S) to come forward to discuss the new proposal for targeting Graham St. area to locate
sources on private property such as sump pumps, open cleanout, driveway drains. W&S revised
scope after 3/11 meeting to add 2 extra days. After 2 rounds, we would schedule additional
appointments. They changed the contract to reserve two extra days to meet the 80% participation
goal at no additional cost.
The contract stayed at $30,000. Pat noted the project involves about
200 homes. It will be a 2-member team with homeowners notified 2 weeks before, allowing time to
schedule an appointment through W&S. They will start early and go late (8am - 7pm), allowing about
15 minutes per home and will work one Saturday to accommodate homeowners' schedules. They'll
have ID's, the Was van, shirts and vests identifying themselves. Carl re-stated regulations for TV
audience, that we have the right to come and inspect and there are penalties if you do not allow
access to home, although they hope not to take that route. Carl encouraged residents to schedule
appointments. Pat noted the letter that goes out is pretty clear. We'l include a copy of policy. Butch
noted that future rate increases rely on this work, and Carl noted that that is true, that we are
converting to paying for water going out of town (instead of going into houses), and rain events and
sump pumps could impact rate by 20%. Carl asked for a motion to go ahead with the work,
Butch made the motion, Jay seconded. Carl asked for discussion. Dave asked about the targeted
day. Pat stated that they planned to start early May and have completed by end of May. Dave asked
about what happens when the find a sump pump? Jack stated that they are instructed on how to
divert the water. Jack stated there are no easy solutions given the size of the lots in this area, but the
I/l could bankrupt the Commission in a year, and encouraged cooperation in getting this resolved
Butch stated we are not out to hurt the residents, but to help. Jack agreed, and offered to come out to
talk with residents. Carl asked for a vote. Vote taken was unanimous. 2) Generator maintenance
- Jack noted that the contractor for the pump stations has given us a proposal to do generator
maintenance.
He had asked for a revised proposal from a meeting a couple weeks ago that would
include major maintenance but has not received a new proposal. We are looking for a prorated
contract through the end of the fiscal year and then a new comprehensive contract for next fiscal
year. He'll follow up and keep the Commission updated. Who pays for what needs to be well-defined
in the scope of services. Butch asked about whether maintenance has ever been done on the
generators. Jack stated that it had, but not as thorough a job as needed which, Jack noted, led him to
===PAGE 2===
recommended for the modem. Jay had discussed warranties with the town IT person, Steve. Carl
asked if we have all the quotes we need. Jay stated we had quotes from First Electric, and for the
tech support and internet connection. First Electric will provide the components, and the labor and
programming will come through Hall Pump. Carl wants it bundled so it can be passed on to the DPW.
Discussion followed on whether contract will be more or less than the original quote from Hall Pump,
whether it included the same components, and the involvement of Small Water Systems Services
(SWSS). Jay stated that he expects Hall Pump to give us a quote for labor, parts and programing so it
is in one total package. Jay will ask that the warranty is in writing, and will include parts and labor.
Carl asked Dave for an update on Lake Whalom/Pratt extension, specifically on Pratt St. Dave
noted that he and Mike had spent the weekend visiting the residents. He reviewed some of what
they'd heard from the residents and thanked them for their time. He also wanted to dispel the myth
that if the sewer goes by and you pay a betterment, that you are not forced at the same time to
connect to the sewer. If you have a system in failure, and sewer goes by, then you tie in. A new
septic can cost anywhere from 20 - 45K, and there is a known water table issue in that
neighborhood. He would like to work with the Board of Health to look into types of programs to help
the residents, similar to the circuit breaker program, maybe have a joint session. He summed it up
saying that they had gotten enough 'yes-es' to move forward. Carl complimented Dave & Mike on the
excellent work on getting the 13 votes that the Commission was short in order to meet 2/3rds, that
they took this charter and gave their personal time and that that is what the Commission is looking for
- people on the Sewer Commission with drive and doing good work. Carl added that we note that
request to get together with the Board of Health with the several items that overlap and that we would
like to schedule a workshop with them. Flow Rate/Metering- no updates. Grease trap-
compliance Carl noted that we have collected all the permit fees now and asked Dave for any
updates? Dave stated the need to educate on the reporting aspect. Onsite visits may again be useful
in helping the restaurants understand the reporting requirements. Dave noted it is the first year of
full compliance. Capacity Fee Policy- Carl is working on this and trying to see how links with
current policies. We have now have entered a new age where we must buy capacity. We had to do
this with the Fitchburg IMA to buy capacity and improve the line on John Fitch Highway. We have to
pay up front for capacity and need to find equity. He added that the total cost is $19,000/year for that
capacity and equates to $1.87/gal of capacity and that this is a one-time cost for new users.
looking at Sewer Service Area and a new extension, they didn't have capacity to support the
extension so was forced to purchase the capacity. We are required to set aside 90% of capacity for
any house that is bettered. He added that we have to have 45,000 gallons to be available to stay
ahead of capacity curve.
We cannot go over capacity. Carl noted that our actual usage was 30,000
gpa and the IMA allowed 70,000 which was barely enough for those that had been bettered. We were
on the edge of not being able to have any new connections. So, new language must be added to our
policies to allow this capacity fee. We already had experience on this, since it was done on Highfield
Village. He will keep moving on that and hopes to have something in place by the end of the year.
Privately Funded Extension Policy - Carl noted that there was no champion yet. We had a
workshop on 3/20 and Carl is still collecting the results. The next step is to get inputs from non-
Commissioners - Lancaster Ave. residents, the DPW, etc., and compile notes to discuss at the next
Business Systems and Process Improvement - Carl noted is it his task with Barb. One
of the first is the minutes that we need to work on that. Other than that, there is no update.
Town Caucus - Carl noted that there is still an opening. At this point, it is too late to take papers so
anyone interested should step forward and talk to the Selectmen's office.
Budget FY15 - Carl pointed out that this Thursday the Commission will present their budget to the
FinCom. Anyone is welcome to come. They are happy to report that once again it is a balanced
===PAGE 3===
Business Manager Reports
Demand billing - we sent out 189 demand notices on 3/12 and effective with this demand run, we
will be sending out individual notices for quarterly billings and demands directly to the tenants of the
trailer parks due to many requests.
Invoices - Fitchburg $7934.55 came in as expected, with the credit due from our agreement with Joe
Jordan.
Placeholders as submitted to town manager 3/24, article 2 was forwarded on to counsel per Kerry
request. All articles have to be reviewed by counsel.
Dave thanked Barb for putting it all together and confirmed that the hours of the Sewer commission
office are 7am to 3pm. Carl added that with Town meeting, and Pratt St. participation in the sewer
extension article, we will need to get Wright Pierce to come and help support the effort at town
meeting. Barb added that the next meetings of the Commission are the FinCom presentation on
Thursday, 3/27 at 7pm, and the next regular meeting on 4/8 at the DPW. Carl added that the budget
presentation will be broadcasted on Thursday, if anyone wants to tune in.
Carl asked if there was a motion to adjourn. Butch made the motion that the meeting be adjourned, Jay
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was adjourned at 8:10pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Yent Mantel
Sewer Business Manager
