===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes for Sewer Commission Meeting of October 14, 2014 – DPW  conference room 520 Chase Rd.  
Attendees:  Chair-Carl Luck; Members: Dave MacDonal d, Troy Daniels, Mike Nault, Butch Bilotta. Business  
Manager: Barb Lefebvre 
     
Guests:   Dan Proctor, Stephen Keating (236 Cross R d) 
Meeting was opened by   Carl   at 7:02pm 
 
7:00pm 42 Highland St. private extension  –Carl introduced Dan Proctor, contractor for the 4 2 Highland Ave. 
private sewer extension. Dan reviewed the status an d should start next week. Barb noted that counsel h ad reviewed 
the schedule and requested that the Commission vote  on what can be released at each milestone. Commiss ion was 
provided the suggested schedule to review and discu ssed the initial deposit with Dan. Although it was originally 
recommended by counsel to collect the $24,000 value  assigned to ‘Street Work’ as what the Town might be  liable for, 
the Commission discussed that the item ‘Erosion Con trol’ for $2,000 should be added as it would impact  the public 
way.  Mike suggested, given the duration expected t o complete the job, that we keep it simple and rele ase 
approximately 1/3 at each milestone.  Week 1 and 2 releases would be $8,000 each, and when complete th e balance 
of $7,600, leaving a balance for the year’s warrant y of $2,400. Discussion followed on whether this is  the policy going 
forward. Barb mentioned Jack’s preference for a Roa d Opening permit, such as Fitchburg ($10,000) and Le ominster 
($5,000) do, in place of the bond or deposit.  Jack  had suggested a $5,000 bond, with the amount to in crease based 
on the value of the job.    Carl asked what was the  entire length of the extension. Dan stated it was about 600’. Carl 
voiced his concern whether $2400 would be sufficien t should the road settle and whether we’d have acce ss to the 
DPW road opening permit of $1,500 that Dan has with  the DPW. Dan agreed we would. Carl asked for a motion to 
approve the milestones per the document from counsel.  Mike made the  motion to collect $26,000 from Dan 
and release the holdback for Step 2 of $8,000, and Step 3 of $8, 000, Step 4 being $7,600, leaving $2,400 on 
account for the year’s warranty with Jack’s approval. Dave s econded. Commission discussed coming up with a 
policy, working with Jack on the road opening.   Vote taken was unanimous.    Dave asked about stamped 
engineer’s plans. Barb provided the plans Dan had b rought, along with Henry Albro’s email verifying th e 1 ½ inch line 
which the Commission reviewed. Carl noted that the Commission needed to vote to accept the project. Tro y asked 
Dan if the homeowner was aware that he may have to pay to lay the pipe again.  Dan said he was. Barb p rovided 
Dan a deposit slip to set up the tri-party account,  and a copy of the Conveyance that the homeowner wi ll need to 
sign, in order to dedicate the sewer line to the To wn. Troy made the motion to approve the sewer extension, 
according to the plans received, Butch seconded. No further discussion. Vote taken was unanimous.  Dave 
asked Dan to let them know when the E-one is instal led. He would like to see the installation. Dan not ed this is a 
buried pump.  
  
Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project  - Mr. Keating from 236 Cross Rd. was present. He ha d sent each 
commissioner a letter after the 9/30 meeting. Carl explained the CWMP about the determination of areas  of need, 
and explained the map from Wright Pierce (Tier 1 Ana lysis-Figure 4-1, Phase I CWMP) and specifically Are a 9.  
He also explained the only prior situation on Elect ric Ave, where a portion of the parcel was not in t he SSA (Sewer 
Service Area), and the applicant had to show that t he land could not support conventional systems and then had to 
go to Town Meeting to have the SSA expanded to inclu de the entire parcel.  Carl added that at this poin t unless it is 
not possible to put in septic, the Commission would  not support changing the SSA.  Mr. Keating explain ed the history 
of the property, with marshes forming off and on th roughout property, and that it didn’t perc years ag o.  It was 
determined that if he did tests and finds he cannot  put in an onsite system, then it would meet the re quirement that it 
cannot support conventional system. Carl added that  the preference is to treat water locally since it is better for the 
town and the environment. Mr. Keating needs to gain  Commission approval but would still need to go to Town 
Meeting.  First he must prove it is not possible to put in septic by having tests done, get a letter fr om the Board of 
Health backing it up, and then the Sewer Commission  would support your request at Town Meeting to chang e the 
SSA.  Carl added we had another parcel that was rig ht on the border of the SSA, but he had a large amo unt of land, 
and couldn’t show that the parcel couldn’t support a conventional system. Carl asked that Mr. Keating advise when 
the perc tests are done so he can come witness, and  that we’d need a document from the Board of Health  that based 
on the data, the property cannot support a private system. Mr. Keating said he’d get in touch with Dan  Proctor to start 
the process, and thanked the Commission for their c onsideration.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
  
Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project – The SRF application will be submitted to the state to morrow,  October 15.  
Board of Selectmen are signing the resolution tonig ht, Clerk will certify Kerry’s authority to sign, a nd it will be 
submitted. Only other item outstanding is the Notic e of Intent (NOI) to be signed by Conservation 
Commission(ConsCom). We are hoping to get it done o n the first meeting in November  214 cross rd  – Commission 
discussed adding this lot into the project, noting their concern with lots on other side of Cross Rd.,  such as parcel 59, 
and costs related to the length of pipe required fo r the additional 560’. Since Highland Ave.’s contra ct was $36,000, 
we can assume that is approximately the additional cost to include 214 Cross. It was noted that we may  have the 
addition of 2 more betterments (lots 21 & 22).  The  costs are up with the discovery of ledge, but proj ect cost down 
due to being an all low-pressure system. Carl asked  to put it to a vote whether to pick up 214 Cross i n the SRF 
project. Dave made the motion to accept 214 Cross Road as part of the SRF proje ct. Troy seconded.  Vote 
taken was unanimous.   Nothing new on Easements. Wright Pierce will address once the SRF application is filed.  
 
I/I Project status – 21 John St  – Commission discussed whether to continue to fine  and Jack’s opinion to not fine. 
We are fining the property, not the individual, and  it gives the lien holder notice. Even though we ca nnot lien fines, it 
does appear on Municipal Lien certificate as unpaid  monies owed to the Town. Commission discussed whet her they 
could forgive the fees when a house is abandoned wi th no water or electricity and it was determined th at we’d need a 
policy on forgiving fines to keep consistent. After  more discussion, it was proposed that we could hav e a policy to 
continue to fine, but if not rectified after 6 mont hs, Commission would have line capped and property owner would be 
responsible for any and all costs. Policy must have  flexibility for different situations.  Troy will ch eck our policies and 
Mass. General Law, see if it is written anywhere th at we have the right to disconnect and if there are  limitations, and 
will have a policy for the Commission for the next meeting. Then we’ll send a letter to the homeowner a nd lien holder.  
We will also need to advise the Board of Health, as  Troy believes they will need to condemn the house i f there is no 
active way to discharge sewage. 37 Graham St.  work is to commence. Per Jack, work will be done b y the DPW.  
  
Whalom Luxury Apts – Carl noted there is  no progress since last meeting, except that Dan Hil l is researching the 
fines. Ilana from Koppelman & Paige is doing same t hing.  The next ZBA meeting is 10/22.  
 
Sewer Commission Projects update-I/I reduction project  - Commission discussed getting the next phase going, 
inviting  Weston & Sampson to refresh their proposa l for the next step and evaluating the last one.  S torm drains 
need to be part of the discussion for illegal conne ctions, along with the white water at the Graham St . flow meter. 
Commission still needs to see comparison of actual flows to billing readings. Jack to complete work on  depressed 
manhole when 37 Graham work done.  Commission discu ssed timing of getting Weston & Sampson in, realizi ng 
conflicts with November dates. Sewer Commission wil l have only one meeting in November, 11/18.  Barb w ill send 
Weston & Sampson a letter, asking to take what was successful from the spring I/I project, and apply i t to the next 
focus area with the intent to have them present to the Commission at a meeting in December or January,  for work to 
commence in the spring and be completed before the end of the fiscal year. Business Systems and Process 
Improvement –Carl is going to review billing process with Barb this week.   
 
SWSS – Barb noted there is no update on the generator esti mate. Jack is waiting on Debbie for response. Carl noted 
that as long as we don’t pay her bills, she will ev entually have to have this discussion.   
 
Barb noted that our new FinCom liaison  is Terri Burchfield. Dave asked that Terri be added to the distribution list for 
our meeting packages.   
 
FY16 Capital Plan – Carl noted that the Commission needs to do a Capi tal Plan, however not on the town’s timeline 
since the money comes through the Enterprise, not t he Town.  Carl will talk to Terri.  
 
Minutes – Carl confirmed we had the members present and asked  that if everyone had reviewed the minutes, he 
would request a motion to approve the minutes of 9/16/14.  Troy made the motion, Dav e seconded. Vote taken 
was unanimous.  Mike noted that he was not present at the 9/30 meet ing. The minutes will be revised to reflect his 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
absence. Carl asked for a  motion to approve the minutes for the 9/30 meeting as revised. Troy  made the 
motion to approve the minutes of 9/30 with the amendment removing Mik e Nault as attending. Dave 
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Commission discussed the level of detail in the min utes, and the current 
level was acceptable.  
 
Business Manager report – Barb noted that she needs to start the 
Q2 billing and do  nothing else to get them 
out by 11/1.  She had privilege fee documents  for Commissioner’s signatures, including Sewer Orders  
for the purpose of placing privilege fee on FY15 tax  bills: 1) 2 privilege fees for  Lancaster Ave ,  2) 6 privilege fees  
for Whites Woods- , 3) $75 recording fee for 70 Lesure Ave. ;  one Sewer Assessment Statement to record and 
lien the units at  Whites Woods .  Commissioners signed the documents, and Carl too k the Assessment Statement for 
notarization at the Clerk’s office.  Barb had the q uarterly invoice for $2490 for Flow Assessment which was 
initialed by the Chair.   Next meeting is October 28 th  at Town Hall, and for November the meeting will be 
November 18 th  at the DPW.  
 
As there were no Commissioners Comments, Carl asked for a  motion to adjourn. Troy made the motion, Mike 
seconded.  Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was adjourned at   9:10 pm 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Barbara Lefebvre 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 