===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Sewer Commission 
MINUTES 
September 30, 2014 
Town Hall 
17 Main St. 2 nd  Floor meeting room 
Carl Luck, Dave MacDonald, Troy Daniels, Butch Bilotta  
 
CALL TO ORDER : 7:00pm   
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Reminder to those sites with grease traps that hav e not sent in their Annual Permit Fee and reporting  to 
please do so. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Stephen Keating, 236 Cross Rd.  – requesting consideration of the Commission to be in cluded in the SRF 
project in Lakeview area.  Parcel was not included in the CWMP ‘area of need’ and requires town meeting vote to extend Sewer 
Service Area.    
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
7:00 pm Kevin Olson, Wright Pierce – SRF Project - Reviewed outcome of workshop preceding meeting, p roject status review, 
and SRF application to be submitted 10/15/14.  Surv ey done, determined low pressure system needed on P ratt St, soil borings 
have been done.  Project on schedule, expecting app roval by state in December, bidding in January, Con tractor to commence 
April/May, 7 months of construction, trenches settl e over winter, final paving Spring 2016.  Noted fro m soil boring, rock on Rennie  
and shallow on Pratt-may increase cost. Easements w ill be required on Sunset & Harris Ave, preferred o ver eminent domain. 
Working with Board of Health to locate septics. Rev iewed invoices, approved.  Kevin will review why 23 6 Cross was not included 
in Area 9 of CWMP.  Debbie Sundstrom (214 Cross Rd)  had sent letter to Commission, came forward to req uest inclusion in 
project.  
 
7:30 pm Dan Proctor, 42 Highland St extension – Reviewed counsel’s input regarding bond for project . Chair requested 
change to vote taken at 9/16 meeting, to accept a b ond for the full amount naming the Town as ‘obligee ’.  Troy made the motion 
to accept a bond for the full amount naming the Tow n as ‘obligee’, Dave seconded. Vote taken was unani mous.  
Discussed with Jack Rodriquenz allowing Dan to put up contract value in cash, with a schedule of compl etion, releasing money 
from tri-party account, to the point it becomes sub stantial completion (sewer in use), then leaving 5%  on account for 12 month 
warranty period.  Dan will provide schedule of valu es, and have Jack review.  Barb will check this met hod with counsel.  Dan will 
get letter from FR Mahoney on pipe sizing. Covenant  received and signed by Commission.  
  
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
 
I/I Project status – 21 John St., 18 Kirby -assessing fines. 18 The Clearing -letter sent 9/17with $500 fine, no appeal.  
37 Graham St.- Jack will start plans to cap off sewer 9/29.  Manholes -all complete but one that Jack will have done.  
 
Whalom Luxury Apartments – Carl reviewed outcome of ZBA hearing on 9/24, most of which dealt with sewer fees. Carl 
advised ZBA that the fees will remain, that nothing  the applicant has proposed benefits our customers so there is no reason to 
waive fees. Dan Hill will research fees on behalf o f the ZBA.  Pro forma has not been reviewed in full  and the next ZBA hearing is 
10/22.  Carl noted comments made by developer about  connecting directly to Leominster and he spoke wit h his contact in 
Leominster today and was assured that they have no intention to consider a direct connection.  
 
Sewer Commission Projects update - Privately Funded  Extension Policy – Troy noted that our policy is good and that we 
just need to set up a more-defined process. 
 
Capital Plan 2016 is due 10/17 .  Ideas proposed included I/I, generators, manholes, SCADA. Need to hear from SWSS to tell us 
what is needed.   
 
SWSS – we are awaiting status update on generator work, SCADA and wet well cleaning.  Carl will talk to IT on the SCADA. Bob 
Ebersole explained why IT may not want to be involv ed in process.  
 
Permits to Connect received for  824 Mass Ave., 449 Sunnyhill Ave    
 
Business Manager reports: 
YTD FY15 budget –reviewed and discussed.  New FinCom liaison, Terri  Burchfield, was sitting in on meeting.  
Commission had received the  Invitation for groundbreaking 10/18 for Lunenburg High School  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Planning Board notice of joint meeting  on Economic Dev Element scheduled for  October 20th, 6:30 PM at  Ritter  
 
Invoices –Dave brought up that any work on SRF project shoul d be broken out to track costs. Barb will see that is done.   
Small Water’s invoice for SCADA $7700.90 higher tha n original proposal. Barb will follow up.  Other in voices approved.  
 
Cards sent on behalf of Sewer Commission – get well to former Sewer Commissioner Mark Flagg, a nd congratulations on 
retirement to Jeanne McKnight, previous counsel at Koppelman & Paige.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE - 
 October 14, 2014 - DPW, 520 Chase Rd . 
 
COMMISSIONERS COMMENTS – Troy will be away for 10/28.   Dave asked that Barb check again with new Land Use Director, 
Adam, in the Planning Board whether he wants to receive notices of Intent to Connect .  Dave asked if we’d received notice 
that the grease trap at 909 Mass Ave . had been removed. Barb confirmed we’d received no tice of disconnect and that Planning 
Board was advised. They would have to go back to th e Planning Board to serve food, and they’d have to come back to us for 
Change of use.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:
  Carl asked for a motion to adjourn.  Butch made the motion, Troy  seconded. Vote taken w as 
unanimous. Meeting was adjourned at 8:35 pm.  
 
 
Visitors: Stephen Keating, Debbie Sundstrom, Jack Rodriquenz,  Kevin Olson(WP), Matt Corbin(WP), Bob Ebersole(BOS  
liaison), Terri Burchfield (FinCom liaison)  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Barbara Lefebvre, Business Manager for the Sewer Commission 
 
 
 
 