===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOS liaison.
Carl opened the meeting with the wish to show 2 videos on subjects that are important to the Sewer Commission - one on
'disposables'
, which he stated are NOT, and the other on Fats Oil and Grease, The 2 videos were 6 minutes for one and 3
minutes for the other. The videos were produced by the City of Spokane, Washington, who has an excellent website which Carl
encouraged anyone interested to go see at www.spokanewastewater.org and made available to us to help spread the word.
The first one was entitled 'Will it Flush' which showcases the breakdown of everything from toilet paper to kitty litter in the sewer
system, simulating the interaction with system pumps. At the conclusion of that, Carl noted that Lunenburg's second biggest
cost of operating the system is the operations and maintenance of the pump stations, and that fats, oil and grease do cause
trouble, almost on a daily basis.. Also, Carl added that just now the Town is converting how we pay for the flow to Fitchburg and
Leominster as based on meters, and those meters are easily disturbed by these items so it becomes even more important that
we don't pay for more than we need to. Carl added that these items affect private septic systems as well. The second video
called 'Fats, Oils and Grease' was run. Dave added that in his experience working in different towns, he has seen the results of
grease and the costs to fix it. He also noted that it has the same effect in homes, and that the homeowners should employ the
same methods as shown in the video to prevent backups in their own homes. Carl thanked Mike Nault for the elegant new
name plates for the Commission.
Carl commenced the regular meeting with the first appointment by introducing Dave Misner to speak on the 51 Joslin St. issue.
Dave came up and also introduced his wife, Diane Misner, both of 49 Joslin St.. Mr. Misner handed out photos of the sewer plan
from around 2000 which showed a sewer connection drawn in. He and Diane had viewed the plan in 2003 prior to purchasing
the property at public auction from the Town and had inquired about fees such as the betterment at that time. He was told that
the Town owned the lot, the sewer was already installed and went by the property, with a connection stub to the lot so there
wouldn't be a betterment fee. Unfortunately, they have no documentation to back this up. They purchased 51 Joslin at public
auction in '03 for $81,000 from the Town of Lunenburg. The price was definitely at the high end at that time, even for the 2003
market. They have a P&S for $60,000 currently and are taking a loss, losing about 1/3 of their investment. They are prepared
to take the loss as is, but the betterment would create a financial hardship since he is unemployed since returning from
Afghanistan last year. He admitted that they're guilty of not knowing the betterment process and having no documentation.
Butch asked if he knew who told you that there wouldn't be a charge. Mr. Misner stated that he did but that that person wishes
to stay off the record. Carl thanked him and said it was a succinct statement. Carl confirmed some of the facts with Mr. Misner,
and verified that he was still not sure if there is a stub at the property or not. Carl also confirmed that the betterments were
assessed in '08 and the Misners owned the property at that time. Mr. Misner stated that when no betterment was assessed and
he thought that was because it was included. Barb noted that it is recorded in the betterment list as 'unbuildable' due to
insufficient frontage and acreage, noting it shows as . 19ac. Mr. Misner said that it is not even 19ac - and that it is a small, non-
conforming, grandfathered lot. Carl confirmed with Barb that we determined it to be unbuildable and that is why there was no
betterment.
Mr. Misner noted that at the auction, the auctioneer asked the building inspector there if it was buildable and the
inspector said yes. Carl asked for more questions, and Dave MacDonald asked if he was looking to build a home on the lot? Mr.
Misner responded yes, and that they have a purchase and sale agreement. Dave MacDonald confirmed that they wish to sell it
as a buildable lot, and that they've checked with the building department for a confirmation that it is a buildable lot. Barb noted
that he had gone to the ZBA to get it changed from unbuildable to buildable. Butch asked if it was only buildable if you have
sewer, since there is not enough room to put a septic in? Carl asked Mr. Misner if that was part of the ZBA ruling and Mr.
Misner said there was no discussion about sewer at the hearing. Carl asked about the P&S and whether it was contingent upon
connection to sewer. Mr. Misner thought it was. Discussion continued on why it was deemed unbuildable and that it had to do
with the property coming out of trust, and so undoing the 'grandfathered' status. The ZBA ruling determined it was a mistake, and
allowed it to regain its grandfathered status as buildable. Carl confirmed that the lot could still be sold without connection to
septic. Mr. Misner agreed but asked for leniency on the betterment fee. Carl noted that since there was no betterment, that it
now falls under the privilege fee category which kicks in when someone requests to connect to the sewer. He asked Mr. Misner
if he was requesting to connect to the sewer? Mr. Misner wasn't sure at this time, he was merely there about the betterment fee.
Carl said there would be no fee unless there was a request to connect to sewer. Carl reviewed the betterment process, how it is
===PAGE 2===
Northfield Rd.. There are 2 proposals: 175 Northfield and subdividing into 7 lots with the current sewer on Oak Ave., the other
to bring sewer down Northfield to be able to develop 10 lots.
The Commission has yet to receive the formal request and
justification. Carl pointed out, for the 2nd proposal, that the town funded a Comprehensive Wastewater Management
Plan(CWMP) in 2006 and it has been the rule book for decisions to date. It scored this area as the 23rd of 24 relative to 'need".
In fact the report concluded in its final report that conventional Title V systems are a viable long-term wastewater disposal
solution, that the lots in the area are large enough to hold a standard septic, and recommended that it not be included in the
sewer zone, and specifically not to bring sewer down Northfield. He added that the WMP states "a goal of the recommended
wastewater plan is to manage wastewater issues with existing development and existing environmental concerns while at the
same time not serving to promote unmanaged sprawl of unchecked development." This is a main principle of the Sewer
Commission as well as the development policy which reads "A guiding principle of this Commission is to determine the most
effective method of providing service to existing and new developments where alternate, on site solutions are not able to meet
local and state health and environmental requirements. It is not the intention or goal of this Commission to control or enable
development." That is the basic principle to keep in mind when considering this proposal. The CWMP and Commission need
to relate the degree of need in which alternate onsite solutions are not able to meet local and state environmental needs. That
is the first principle and that if onsite systems can support the desired use, then that is the preferred choice. That was a Town's
directive, and in this way, we are protecting the town's interests. Based on all this, if the written justification is received, there
are 3 options: 1) that we deny the request - 7 lots can be put on this lot with no change to the Sewer Service AreaSSA). Early
on the developer supplied a plan with the 7 lots and 2 lots serviced by septic. 2) we could vote to modify SSA within the subject
lots, but not allow any extension. This would require that the applicant prove additional and compelling evidence of the need, 3)
we could support extension down Northfield and modify SSA accordingly, but clearly violates the WMP and would require
significant discussion and research. Carl continued that the current SSA and WMP need to be the guiding template for the
Commission until compelling information of need is received. There has been no documentation of any kind that there is an
actual need as defined by our WMP. Once we receive the formal request and get the justification need, we will discuss it.
Based on these points, Carl recommends that this request be tabled or denied at this time pending any new and compelling
demonstration of need. Carl did acknowledge that Jamie Rheault from Whitman & Bingham was present if the Commission has
any questions of him. Dave MacDonald confirmed that the WMP is our guide, and demonstration of need is most important.
Our job is to enforce the CWMP. Jack did come forward to state that we did install one stub and charged 7 betterments. He was
not sure why, but the practice at the time was if there was no subdivision plan on file at the time sewer went through (or at the
signing of the contract-not sure), each property received one stub. The Town had decided at some point that there was the
potential of 'x' number of lots and were charged a betterment. He wanted to make sure Commission was aware, if something
happens there, in excess of one lot, that the Sewer Commission is going to need to tie into that sewer line in 6 different places.
He is not sure of the ground conditions, but each connection could cost the Commission between $3500 and $5000. Jack asked
that we be somewhat flexible and make some sort of agreement possibly to have the developer pick up some part of that cost in
return for a lot or some other compromise. Carl responded and stated that just like we would not accept anything financial for
establishing need, Carl would not accept any 'quid pro quo' to financially offset the Commission's costs if it required violating our
basic principles. He added that he would not want to change the SA just to cover their liability we've incurred by those missing
connections. He asked for any more comments. Butch asked if we'd let any other areas expand? Carl responded that we'd
only done it once before where we expanded the SSA and it was based on proof requested and received that the parcel could
not be serviced by on-site systems, but also by letters from Board of Health. It was the old drive-in location. Butch asked what
the harm would be. Carl repeated that it is not an area of need, and that our first alternative for the Town and environment's sake
is that if it can be supported by an onsite system, then that is the first option. Sewer is an option only after it is proven that the
property cannot support onsite, unless it's within the 12 areas of need. Those areas are blessed and defined as areas that need
sewer, like Lancaster & Sunset Ave. extension requests. Butch re-stated that he doesn't see a problem going up Northfield to
bring sewer to just those extensions. Carl pointed out that once you do, anyone along the street has a right to connect. He
continued that along that street are some very large parcels, including the 20ac lot which is the 2nd part of the proposal. Dave
added that sewer also take away from the groundwater in the area. Carl asked Butch to review the CWMP to see why it came to
its conclusions. Carl agreed that things change and someday the WMP may need to be revised, but right now it is what we
have to go by. Carl asked for a motion or to table this. Butch said it needs more research. Jamie Rheault of Whitman &
Bingham came forward, representing the applicant. Jamie stated that after the last meeting, he left with the understanding that
===PAGE 3===
service line so that more sewer could not connect. He is being as transparent as possible. He has the house on that property
that has failed Title V that he'd like to connect to sewer and there is a barn on a separate lot where they want to put a house.
Carl wanted to answer his question on the triangle and what had happened after the last meeting. He stated that we d
continued the investigation as to why that piece was excluded and realized that given all the reasons previously mentioned this
meeting, that is why it was intentionally done that way. Independent of whether it was a sewered or non-sewered area, that
didn't make a difference. Carl said that he had made the mistake thinking that because it was an existing sewered area, and not
a new study zone, that technically it should all be included. But he'd learned that that was not the case because that same
principle had been applied all over town and we got back to you as quickly as we could. Carl took issue with the statement Jamie
made when presenting the 7 lot layout that crossed the line, that he specifically mentioned that those 2 lots would be serviced by
septic. Jamie did not believe he did, or that he was misunderstood, but said he didn't intend to at all. Carl said we re-checked
with the building inspector last week that given the current code and SSA map, the property can support 7 lots. He encouraged
Jamie to go close the loop with Mike. Carl added that if he is happy with the 7 lots then we can move on to Northfield, but that
that is a much bigger 'nut. It is not just Jamie's client's property, but opens up a can of worms and restated that it was the last
ranked area in terms of need. Carl noted that he has yet to receive any justification of need on his proposal. Jamie said he has
an appointment with the building inspector and will discuss the 7 lot parcel and wants to be on the next agenda to talk about that.
Hopefully with the information from Mike, and whether we need to change the district line, we have enough time to get on the
warrant for the next Town Meeting. Then, we can talk about the property across the street. Jamie added he fully expects to do
what they did with the drive-in with the property across the street as far as testing. It is just not the time of year to do it. Carl
noted that it is a 20-acre lot, and he'll have to show there is not one area that can support a septic. Jamie believes that tests will
show that and restated that they'll do the deed restriction. Mike Nault pointed out that where we assessed them for the 7 lots,
and if he cannot get that many lots in, is there a 'hardship' to be considered and give the Commission more of a right to change
the SSA? Carl summed it up to tell Jamie that he believes 6 lots can fit in the SSA and that one possible outcome is that we
allow 6, while the client's paid for 7, and in that case we would make him 'whole'. He asked that Jamie review all possibilities with
the building inspector, including moving the line just enough to squeak a pipe by and not touch Northfield. Jamie agreed and
called it option 3. Dave re-stated that we have to follow the master plan.
DPW Director Operations Update - Carl introduced Jack to update the Commission on 4 items on our plate. Lancaster Ave.
Jack discussed the progress on the manhole on Lancaster & Whiting and that upon weekly inspections, the most recent shows
that it is not dry. There is infiltration in two different places. The Contractor did good job slowing it down but that any flow is
unacceptable. Jack sent message to the contractor that we have set dates for initiation of remediation to be March 16, weather
permitting and completed (dry) by 3/31. Jack has not yet received a response from the contractor. On the connection permits
where the Commission has left the decision to him, they will move forward when winter ends on the emergency connection, anc
nat it won't be detrimental to the manhole issue. On the SRF funding and Wright Pierce, we will be looking for support at
Town Meeting. Jack added it was the Commission's decision to go with Wright Pierce as authors of the CWMP that their scope
will be minimal, but that we may want a professional to speak for us and expects Kevin Olson of Wright Pierce to be there to do
that. On SWSS and Generator Maintenance, Jack explained the issue. They had an incident, brought to our attention by
SWSS, who he believes has done a great job. They told us about an issue with a generator at Twin City pump station. Jack
sent DPW staff and the current issue was resolved, but it brought to his attention a need for generator maintenance, which was
not included in our contract with SWSS. Because of the electrical component, it is not as simple as an oil change and
lubrication. In working with in-house staff and Carl's recommendation, they have requested a scope of work from SWSS for the
maintenance and are discussing it with SWSS, making sure there is no duplication between the outsourcing contract and the
generator scope of work. Debbie of SWSS will adjust it and Jack will have them come in when we have a solid proposal. On the
Ill reduction project, Jack had contacted Weston & Sampson, who had done the proposal over 2 years ago, to provide a scope
of work. He did talk with Pat Cotton today and discussed that their concern is with the sump pumps. Originally it was thought to
be the clay pipes not swapped out with PVC, but the data didn't support that. Pat said they need to go house to house because
of the way the meters spike in a rain storm and that it indicates sump pumps may be the source. They will have to let people
know they are coming for an inspection, and that there will be 2 people to reduce liability, and that they will inspect for sump
pumps. Jack suggested we bring Pat in to discuss the program since it has been so long since they last reviewed it. Carl stated
he appreciated Jack's input on this and requested we schedule to have them come in and that we need to get this addressed
===PAGE 4===
decide what we want to do, whether we'd go out for bid proposal. Carl stated that we needed to re-group a little and get Jack
and Commission together to get the job done, that we've blurred the lines a little between operations and the Commission, and
policy setting. The questions of how many stations, how to handle, bid process, etc is more the baileywick of the Commission,
more than which part is ordered and all the other details, which is why, at this time, we need to transition what Jay's been doing
over to Jack. Jack stated that they can use all the help they can get, and that he appreciated the effort, but confirmed that the
lines were getting blurred, that they have people that they trust, that they would follow the procedure. If it is Jay's opinion that
they are not getting the best deal, he respects Jay's opinion, but we do have people under contract. He added that it is obvious
today that there are policies of the Sewer Commission that are steadfast, and he admires the job they do, and that that is the
most important job, but that he handles the day-to-day operation under the Town Manager, and this is day-to-day. He
appreciates any input, but at this point, it is holding up the process. Jack added that we are clear on the procurement and
where that lies, and will pay close attention to that. We can discuss, but at this point it is day-to-day operation. He added that
the Sewer Commission had already voted to support not just for the $6000 but voted for twice that. Jack added that they had
agreed to do this one station, and see how it works out. We had hoped to move into the 21st century and do them all, but we
needed to do one and see it out. Carl spoke up that he was compelled to explain that the Commission had voted to approve
enough to do 2 stations and in process, determined to only do the one first. Dave spoke up on the RFP and that we'd send out
to multiple companies before we selected SWSS. He also would like some detail from Unitil and the loss of a 'leg' and that Unitil
is responsible for this. He really wants this done - if their leg blew and hurt our equipment, then Unitil is responsible. Jack
stated he'd send a message off to John Denapoli. Dave added that we need to do up a report of exactly what happened to give
to John, and agreed that we'd gone to great lengths to get the new company on board but if someone is responsible, we should
hold them responsible.
Carl moved on to the next subject of Sewer Commission Projects for 2014/15, which has the SCADA on the list. Given the
outsourcing and success with SWSS, it was a good model. Dave & Mike got it going, then operations took it on and it is the
model he'd like to use for other projects. Every project should have a commissioner who puts his arms around it, and stays
closely linked. Some may be heavy on the operations side but the leader would help with communications with the Commission
and keeping things moving. This way, if Jack's not around, the leader can keep the Commission up to date. Carl would like to
consider having Jay to be the Commission champion on the SCADA systems to include policy, operation, and keeping the
regulations completely. Flow rate metering is most important due to our agreement with Fitchburg. We will need to know asap if
something is not looking right and the person should have that responsibility and work with Barb and Flow Assessment. On the
Capacity fee policy, the good news is that we have anIMA with Fitchburg, but the result means we have to recover our costs for
securing capacity and there is no policy yet. The l/l reduction project was just discussed and someone would be the champion
for the project. The Betterment on Sunset Ave. has a lot of work there, and a lot of communication. There were lots of lessons
learned on the private extension for Lancaster Ave. and it needs to become a policy. Scada is next on the list and discussed.
With Business systems and process, we need to look at ways to improve system, to streamline and do things other than stuff
envelopes, look at billing processes. We have a valuable member of the team that needs help. Carl concluded that these are
eight items - are there any others? - and asked members to volunteer for any that would fit their area of expertise. Mike wanted
to do Flow Meters. Dave took Sunset Ave. Butch noted he didn't want to take any on, that his plate is full. Dave noted that
Grease Traps is almost over but Carl pointed that that although almost everyone has paid, there are still no reports coming in.
We need to look at our regulation - is it reasonable? Someone needs to look at what needs to be done, and what do we need
to do to obtain the results we need. Mike and Dave said they would take that one together. Carl would like to take on the
capacity fee policy. Dave thought Carl would be good for the for the business systems option. Carl stated that leaves 2 more --
the l/l project and the privately funded extensions. We can discuss at the next meeting.
Carl noted that the Town Caucus is March 17, 2014 and asked Jay, since his term is up in May, if he will re-up. Jay stated that
he is not planning on re-upping. Carl said it was disappointing to hear that. His experience has been good for the Commission.
Carl turned to the TV audience to make public that a position would be open, that they have fun on the commission. He stated
===PAGE 5===
future invoices will not, until there is an agreement reached. The February invoice, based on the old amount of $8.95, will be
credited in full due to a credit of $11,000 due, plus a small credit to be applied to our next bill. After that we should be good going
forward.
Grease Trap compliance - Barb noted there is only one restaurant left with the annual permit fee outstanding.
Administrative Matters- Highfield Village -Barb noted that she'd sent a memo to Planning Board on results of peer review and
that it was included in their meeting packages. Barb asked if everyone had reviewed the 2/11/14 meeting minutes.
Butch
made a motion to approve, Mike seconded. Dave asked for a discussion. Dave asked for the information if there is any ruling
at he nuncan on board, he had stated the pries The is reposity is wife.
the Town of Lunenburg. He said he encourages people to come out and serve but if there are times when you have to do your
job. He asked the commission to weigh in and if he's not doing his job and putting too much on the board, then he would leave.
Carl spoke up and said he was glad Dave addressed this issue, and that when Butch inquired at the last meeting, he didn't
interpret as personal and if he had, he would have ruled it out of order. He continued to tell Dave that he does a lot of work and
it is appreciated. Dave asked whether it is a personal vendetta or if it is regarding the job that he is doing. He feels he is doing
his job, and took it very personally. The Commission has done a great job and he has to juggle to support his life and wife.
Committees do a great job - they work hard, and it is rewarding. But if anyone feels he isn't doing his job, he'd step down. Mike
wanted to go on record, saying that Mr. MacDonald has gone above and beyond and it would be a great loss to the Board if we
lost him. Carl added that he 100% supported that statement and acknowledged the contributions Dave makes, including being
the first volunteer for some of the Commission projects, but said other members must speak for themselves He added that he
would be devastated if Dave chose to leave. Dave added he will miss Jay since he is not running again, that he's a good boy,
that they've worked side by side on the DPW building and the Commission and that he will be missed. Jay added that he
supports Dave as well, adding, "you've done a good job here". Back to the minutes, Carl asked for a motion? Butch made the
motion, Mike seconded and vote was unanimous to accept the minutes. Barb had 2 invoices for approval - the first for
Leominster sewer usage came in at the expected amount. The amount approved was $56,544.61. The second invoice was for
Flow Assessment for $2375.01 the three months of November, December & January. Everyone received the SWSS pump
station report for w/e 2/8. Barb had the one for w/e 2/15 but Commission stated they'd prefer to get it in the next meeting
package. Barb re-stated that the next regular meeting would be 3/11 at the DPW 7pm and added that the FY15 budget
presentation to FinCom is scheduled for 3/27. Carl asked if there was anything else? Dave added that Pat Slattery is retiring
from town government. He added that he's done a good job and deserves a pat on back.
Carl asked if there were any other comments from the Sewer Commission, and if not, he would entertain a motion to adjourn.
Butch made the motion that the meeting be adjourned, Jay seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was
adjourned at 9:05pm.
Respectfully submitted,
