===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
B gay nda bla oa pcnl bao lsc dl ldll, diro bitiig n trle serviu, allu
that the work done to bring the generators up to standard should not be considered as part of the major maintenance.
Generators will need a major pm in December to stay on the annual schedule. The work already performed has no
overlap with the work that needs to be done in December. SWSS has invoiced all of the 'bringing up to standard"
invoices except Electric Ave. At issue was the original estimate of $9500, and then multiple invoices received totaling
over $12,000, and still not yet complete. The parties present discussed estimates and firm quotes, and the process
going forward. SWSS will ensure they provide a quote, the Commission approves, and that they must get approval if
the amount will exceed the quote. No more estimates. There was also discussion on the outstanding invoices that
were awaiting understanding and backup before submitting for payment. Jack spoke up to say that he and Barb had
met with Debbie, and if they have done this work, we should be paying them for it. The error was in making an
estimate before knowing the work to be done. After the profiling was done, a scope of work should have been
provided, but we need to pay for the work that has been done. Jack made it clear that we have no issues with the
level of service we've received from SWSS. It is just the process that needs to be corrected. Troy made the motion
to pay the invoice for $9278.70 for the purposes of discussion, Dave seconded. Short discussion ensued
regarding costs to come. They discovered the thermostat issue at Dana St. when the weather turned. Also, the
expected costs for Electric Ave will be around $675, maybe a little more. Carl asked for a vote. Vote taken was
unanimous to pay the invoice $9278.70. Jack asked Al to make the phone call to him when there is an issue such
as Dana St. for approval, as Jack is responsible for the day to day operation of the system. Commission discussed
adding more detail to the weekly reports with expected costs of repair, if known at the time the report is generated.
Carl asked if there were any more issues moving forward? Susan asked if the prior monthly invoices that had been
short-paid for the generator portion would be paid, and was assured that they would now be put through for the
balance. Carl opened the discussion up regarding the SCADA at Leominster Rd. We received an invoice for $1000
over the estimate. Bruce explained that the original estimate was from Hall, didn't include SWSS labor, and that
additional hours were required. Carl took issue that the labor hours were 'backed in to', not based on actuals. This
was a pilot site and we needed to know exactly what labor costs could be expected going forward. Carl asked that
they provide the breakdown of labor from First Electric and to start working on the next proposal for discussion. Dave
asked Al which station would be the best for the next SCADA. Al responded that Mass 1 would be the best one, then
Dana - the larger stations - and Jack agreed. Bruce stated he would come back with a hard number, no more
'estimates'. All present agreed that that was best. Jack stated again that they are our agent, and all bills should be
trom SwSs. Barb noted that Dylan trom First Electric was working with Steve (11) tor cellular access, since using the
hard-wired option would double the monthly cost. Al was asked about the timing for a tour for Mike and Troy. Al
said it is best when it is not icy and cold. Jack asked him to come back to us with a couple of options for dates, and
we'l try and nail something down. Weekly reports were reviewed. Procedures when there is 'low fuel' was
discussed. Troy had some issues surrounding Thanksgiving Day. Al stated again that the tour will help with many of
these questions. Numbers can go up or down, depending on the station or time of day. Bruce noted that they watch
the levels and react when numbers go outside of an acceptable range. There was a level 0 at Mass 2 that SWSS will
check (from week ending 11/29 report). Carl asked about the monthly meter inspections. Al said we are due for one.
Barb will talk with Flow Assessment and Al to schedule a detail for a coordinated inspection. SWSS left at 8:47.
Carl invited our 8pm appointment in, Pat Cotton from Weston & Sampson, and apologized for keeping him waiting.
Carl asked Pat to review the proposal that was submitted, with details as to area and data. Also, he had sent Pat flow
data from 11/23-24, when the pumps had twice the flow as usual. Pat said he did review the data, and compared it
to the data from a similar storm in 2011 for Mass Ave. and Summer St., and in the big scheme of things and per DEP
guidelines, the increase was not a problem. The problem is more with Graham St.. Troy asked Jack about 37
Graham St, but it hasn't yet been capped. Troy asked if that could be a factor. Pat thought it could. Graham is after
===PAGE 2===
2011 and 2014 storms and findings. Carl recounted for Pat the issue of white water going through the Summer Street
meter, and considered the potential sources. Bob Ebersole (BOS liaison) suggested the old Cross building that is
now a warehouse now, but used to make styrene pellets. Carl asked Pat to figure out the timing, and email the
updated proposal.
Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project - Per Carl, there is an easement proposal for approval from Wright Pierce for
$4400 for 24 labor hours. Dave made the motion that we accept the proposal for $4400. Troy seconded.
Commission discussed that Wright Pierce's work is the work done prior to the Town's attorneys taking it over. Vote
taken was unanimous.
Drumm Privilege Fee Abatement Request- Town counsel had sent his legal opinion which the Commission had
reviewed. Troy stated based on the attorney's opinion and what we already know, we are powerless to grant any
abatement. Counsel had reviewed the issue, and the abatement far exceeded the expiration for an abatement
request. Troy made the motion to respond, denying the abatement in accordance with town counsel, Dave
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Troy recommended sending a letter, quoting counsel, and not forwarding
the exact document from counsel.
42 Highland St. Sewer Extension - Barb noted that the line was accepted 12/2/14 and that we just need a vote to
assess the privilege fee of $5,775.74. Troy made the motion to assess the privilege fee to 42 Highland St., Dave
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
Sewer Commission Projects update - in the interest of time, Carl asked if there were any updates. Troy mentioned
the Grease Trap compliance issue, but Carl wanted that put on the next agenda to give it sufficient time for
discussion. As far as fees outstanding, we can only withhold licenses for monies over 30 days past due as of the
prior January 1st. Barb noted that Kerry included our outstanding fees and bills this year, and had a great response,
but understands we cannot do it next year. Only 2 restaurants have still not paid this year's fee. We have been
getting some reports, but not many. Barb added that per John Londa the school grease trap cleaning is scheduled for
12/22, if anyone wanted to attend. On the Privately Funded Extension Policy update, Troy had sent out an email
for the Commissioners' review and asked for feedback. Carl asked that it be put on the agenda, and Barb will re-send
Troy's email.
Revised Q2 Commitment - The revised amount is $184,191.33. There was an item on worksheet that should not
have been included, and it changed the total from $184,288.53, reduction of $97.20. Commission re-signed
Minutes - we did not have the parties present in order to approve the minutes, so they will be put on the next
agenda.
YTD Budget - Barb handed out an updated sheet for Commission review. There were several questions on certain
accounts, including the l/l remediation account, which is the sewer bank fee. Jack asked about the l/l work of Weston
& Sampson and was advised that it is under Purchase of Service-Engineering. Barb noted that per Karen Brochu for
FY16 the DOR will require that the betterment fund be included in income and debt service included as expense in
the budget. Barb noted she will be beginning work on the FY16 budget shortly. Dave asked about the use of project
balances, which needs to be used up before it disappears. The Commission discussed using it on the old primary
school to make it more valuable. Barb noted that the funds are used on any work that is tied to the original sewer
project. Jack advised that these funds have been used for stub installations when betterments have already been
charged and no stub exists, and, in the case of missing as-builts, having the line camera'd to determine stub location.
There is agreement among the Commission that these monies should be used before they go away. Jack also
explained the work on the Barney property on Mass Ave. that is getting flooded by the water along the sewer line. We
had done work previously on Northfield Rd. but it has not proved sufficient. The next plan is to go on Mass Ave, and
tap into the manhole and get lower, but Jack first wants to check any legal ramifications of letting water go on the
===PAGE 3===
discussion. We need to get an idea of who else is out there or develop a better working relationship with SWSS.
Dave proposed removing the generator maintenance from the contract and dealing directly with F&M. Jack agreed
that we need to look into other options, but that it must be a turnkey operation as the DPW does not have the people
to do the work. Dave said that we should always have a plan A, and a plan B, and a backup plan. We cant advertise
at this time. Commission agreed that we should look into our options.
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn. Troy made the motion to adjourn, Dave seconded. Vote taken was
unanimous. Meeting adjourned at 9:38pm.
Respeetfully submitted,
