===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Appointments
Seema from Kabobelicous came before the Commission regarding non-compliance to grease trap regulations. She
explained that she initially misunderstood about the inspections. The Commission discussed the situation with her and
further explained the regulations.
Motion: Sue B.
To waive all but another $50 non-compliance fee
Second: Troy D.
Vote: Unanimous
Pat Cotton from Weston & Sampson came to review the Spring I/l project with the Commission. He handed out an
agenda and a map of the area. Building inspections in sub area 6 were reviewed and discussed. Discussion followed
on what the next steps will be.
Deb Trumbull from Small Water Systems Services had to reschedule.
Current Business
DEP Grant award - The proposal by Wright Pierce was discussed and they will be asked for an adjustment on price
and timing of work. The manhole inspection project was also discussed
Sewer Commission Projects update - Grease trap compliance - It was discussed updating the master list so the
annual grease trap permit mailing could be sent out knowing who was in full, partial or non-compliance. Sue B. and
Barb L. will work on this together. The Commission also discussed those who continue to be non-compliant and
sending out the second round of non-compliance notices. Troy D. will work on form. Flow Rate/Metering - They were
reviewed and no issues were noted. Privately Funded Extension Policy update - It was discussed not quoting
prices in emails. An updated checklist was passed out and discussed by the Commission. Timing of Privilege Fee
assessment - The Commission discussed when it is fair to assess privilege fees. Funding Sources for Public
Projects/Individual costs - The Commission discussed this new project that Sue B will lead. They also discussed
possible sources and whether there was a grant writer for the Town.
FY15 Encumbrances - The proposed encumbrances were reviewed by the Commission
Motion: Troy D.
To approve the encumbrances for fiscal year 2015 year-end of $125,679.34 and the Emerald Place FY11
deferred revenue of $22,500 for a total of $148,179.34
Second: Sue B.
Vote: Unanimous
FY15 Year-end Commitment - The end of year commitment for the bills that had gone out since the Q4 Commitment,
totaling $1509.50 was reviewed and signed by the Commission.
Minutes. The minutes from July 7, 2015 were presented for approval to the Commission.
Motion: Sue B.
To accept the minutes from the meeting of July 7, 2015
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Pump station reports - The reports were reviewed and discussed. Doing another tour of the pump stations with Small
Water Systems Services was also brought up.
Business Manager report - The Tighe & Bond 2014 Sewer Rate Report was sent to the Commission for review.
Invoices - There was one invoice from Koppelman and Paige which was approved. Website - The website has been
updated with information from the 6/30/15 meeting and the E-one presentation.
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activities
July 28, 2015 Regular Sewer Commission meeting, Town Hall
Public Comments - Bob Ebersole commented on the Pratt/Lakeview project and the plan for pavement management.
===PAGE 2===

