===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Current Business
Pratt/Lakeview Sewer Extension Project - Project Status/Connection Timeline - The status and timeline of the project was
reviewed. The Commission discussed voting to pre-approve acceptance of the project to streamline process.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Mike N.
To authorize and pre-approve acceptance of said project subject to the approval of the DPW director Vote: Unanimous
Paving considerations - The Commission reviewed resident's concerns that complete paving of the road was included in
betterment. They discussed the options of doing an overlay in the spring or leaving as is. The Commission encouraged residents
to give their input.
Grinder pumps - It was noted by the Commission that everyone connecting to the sewer will need a contractor and a grinder
pump. There is a specitication which the Commission discussed and the suppliers and quotes can be found on the website.
Pleasantview Ave Contract Release Status/Schedule - DEP has approved and the proposal from CJP has met the
Commission's approval. Sue recused herself from the vote as she is a resident of the street.
Motion: Troy D.
To approve release of contract for CJP for Pleasantview Avenue sewer project
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Policies review - Privilege fees - Questions on timing and interpretation went to Counsel and there has not yet been a
response.
Reconnection charge - The Commission addressed a question on a reconnection charge for a trailer. The policy was
discussed.
Sewer Commission Projects update - Grease Traps - An updated list of restaurants and their compliance was reviewed. The
Commission discussed non- compliance and scheduling a workshop with Small Water System Services. I/l remediation - An
extension was granted and the grant money may be used in the spring. Private Extension process - The Commission
discussed updating the regulations and the process of doing so. SCADA systems - SCADA was reviewed and Small Water will
be asked for a new quote. Funding Sources for Public Projects/Individuals - There was a discussion on a tax credit and
med and sal are wil
putting a link on the website. There was also a discussion on funds available through the Board of Health.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Sue B.
To pre-authorize Barb L. to link to any state websites that discusses tax credits
Discussion: Yes, people should understand to consult their accountant
Vote: Unanimous
Flow Rate/Metering - There are no issues.
Special Town Meeting November 16, 2015 - The Sewer Commission has no warrant articles.
SWSS-Pump station reports - They were reviewed and there were no issues.
Business Manager Report - Invoices from Fitchburg and Wright Pierce were reviewed and approved. The website has been
updated with the new specifications and quotes.
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activities
September 30, 2015 7pm Open Meeting Law workshop, Eagle House
October 6, 2015 DPW 7pm FOG workshop
Motion: Troy D.
To adjourn at 8:41pm
Second: Sue B.
Vote Unanimous
Respectfully Submitted,
mil Lelto
mily Lehto, Minutes Assistal
