===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
number of units. Commission also discussed with Dan whether the line could go up Mass Ave. versus Beal. Dan advised
due to line depth and grade, it had to be Beal. Barb noted that both the Betterment bylaw and connection charge policy base
the fees on 12 months of water usage. Upon inquiring as to the usage for 12 months, she was informed by the Lunenburg
Water Dept. that the facility has much greater usage for 2 quarters of the year. Barb had figured connection charges going
ack over 24 months, proposing that, in order to do so, it is required of the WCU agreed to install an irrigation meter, takin
ne high usage quarters out of the calculation. This sparked debate, and Carl wanted to provide Dan 'worst case scenario
pricing, by pricing the betterment and connection charges based on the last 12 months only. Dan agreed. Butch pointed out
that the consensus seems to be that the Commission is in favor of the private extension if WCU wants to proceed. Carl
made note to Dan that the privilege fees quoted are based on the last betterment assessment of $11,551.47, but if the Pratt
St. project is completed before this extension occurs, the betterment could be based on a figure much higher. Dan
understood and will advise the customer of the danger in delaying the decision. Dan stated that the next project proposed
was a similar situation to that just done for the Highland Ave. This property is on Upland Ave., the resident's sewer is in
failure, and they cannot find another solution on the property. They would like to connect to the sewer on Electric Ave. The
house is the first one up from Electric on the right. Dan proposes running a line from the manhole up 50% of the property.
Project would be in the Sewer Service Area. Troy asked about the notice to abutters and Commission discussed which
properties might quality. Discussion went back to 603 Mass Ave. as well, and whether Sunnyhill or other parcels on Mass
Ave. could be served. By putting a manhole on Beal, Dan noted the potential for a lot more users with smaller parcels
further up Beal and restated the issue with gravity on Mass Ave. Butch noted that if the line goes by the house, they have
the option to connect. Carl noted that Troy's question is still valid and a policy needs to be formed. Dan stated that the peer
reviewing engineers would probably do a topographic study, and bring issues to the Commission's attention. Carl asked that
the engineer for the plan use the WMP as a guideline, as any extension should be consistent with the master plan. Carl
asked that we get back to Upland Ave. As for other residents that might be in favor, Barb noted a survey had been done
previously, and she could check the responses for those affected to see if they were in favor. Troy noted that we should not
make it a requirement of the contractor to contact residents. Dan noted that his 3d issue was the 17 acre Whitcomb
property on Prospect Ave, and Cross Rd. Dan had been asked to check, with sewer going down Cross Road, whether
they would be able to subdivide the property and connect to sewer. Barb pulled up the Sewer Service Area map on GIS and
noted that only the first 100-150' back from the road is in the SSA. Carl reinforced that they would be unable to connect
properties in the back acreage, but having already paid a betterment on the property, that they would not be assessed
another betterment. With that Dan left the meeting and, with Sue Bunish present from Pleasant View Ave., Carl asked the
Commission's permission to move that agenda item up. Carl introduced Sue and gave a brief history of the street's attempts
to get sewer on Pleasant View Ave., along with issues of the water pipe and pavement. Carl is hoping to meet to discuss
the issue with the DPW & Kerry. Sue provided more details of her and her neighbors' attempts to get sewer, adding that it
has gone on since 1980's. Carl said they just need to get 2/3 of people, and take it to Town Meeting to pursue the
extension. Sue noted it should be cost effective, houses are close together. She also noted that they've had major issues
with Leominster water and gave a brief history. It was determined that the Commission could send a letter out to everyone
to determine interest. We'll need to determine cost estimate. Troy noted it may be in Leominster's interest to upgrade pipe at
the same time. Carl agreed, but that would be separate from the sewer project. Troy stated that it looked like it was
unanimous to support sewering Pleasant View. Carl summed up saying we would get a letter out, with an estimated cost,
and get a placeholder on the warrant for sewering Pleasant View Ave. We will give Sue a 'heads up' when the letters go out.
Carl is planning still to meet with Jack and Kerry regarding the road and water service. Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project
- Easements - Barb stated that we had received another easement, and expect three to come in next week. Carl updated
the Commission on the status of the Stevens and Hitchcock easements and that Dave was going to knock on doors. Carl
added that per counsel, we can obtain eminent domain within 48 hours. Wright Pierce had stated that we didn't have to have
all easements in place to go out for bid, but must have full title before accepting bids. Pump Specification/ agreements -
Carl noted that he is trying to get specs on systems other than E-one to give the residents options. Kevin Olson of Wright
===PAGE 2===
manage the process. Commission discussed outsourcing to collection agencies, or small accounting firms. Mike noted that
the letter should state that non-compliance will affect the issuance of your license, and co Kerry Speidel. Carl will work with
Barb on the letter, and Troy will research collection agencies in the area. Barb stated it would help to know how other towns
manage this, but all present acknowledged that most towns have leverage through their local Board of Health. Private
Sewer Extension workshop scheduling - Carl asked for a good time for everyone to attend a workshop, and it was
determined that it would be scheduled for Tuesday night, March 3, at 6pm here at the DPW. Barb will check with Dave.
FY16 Budget - Carl's plan is to go forward with the budget discussed with the Commission on February 3rd, with the
$69,000 figure. This amount can help to offset the $147,000 deficit in the betterment fund. The Accountant had provided
the costs through 2047, and Carl wants to look at reconciliation of funds versus loan payment. Bob noted that when the
betterments are paid up front, the Town does not get any interest, and discussion followed on not letting the burden fall to
the current users. Another issue brought up by John Male from the FinCom a couple years back was that the roads were
repaved as part of the project, and that we could also ask the town to help cover costs in return. Carl also wants to look at
collecting privilege fees after all the project costs have been covered to offset future expansion. Bob mentioned that he
questioned whether the town's payment included interest. Carl noted these are all items for discussion and research. On
Sewer Commission Projects -Flow Rate/Metering -Mike noted that the couple of spikes he saw in the report on
Summer St. and Mass Ave. were weather related since they both spiked together. Carl has the NOAA link and will send it to
Mike. He remembers Weston & Sampson saying that you usually see a spike 5 days after a weather event. I/l reduction
project (Troy) - Troy stated that the Sewer Commission had been previously advised the only manhole that had an issue
was that on Elizabeth Street, which was to be taken care of at the time the house on Graham Street was disconnected from
the sewer. In a meeting a few months later we learned that Jack planned to fix all the manholes on Mass Ave. Troy stated
the Sewer Commission cannot make an I/l plan without accurate information. Carl suggested that we have Weston &
Sampson do a study of manholes and give a report of what needs to be done. Barb will contact Pat of Weston & Sampson
to come in to discuss, prior to starting the l/l project. Barb stated that the Town Meeting warrant is on the agenda to
consider any other article besides Pleasant View Ave.. Troy asked Bob if the Board of Selectmen can do anything for
Pleasant View. Bob mentioned that the Board of Health fund will be dealt with at Town Meeting, for helping residents with
either septic or connection to sewer. It has upwards of $125,000, and applications will be income-based, with the MRPC
(Montachusett Regional Planning Commission) administering the loan program. Barb noted that a recent Permit to
connect was for 712 Mass Ave., the Poirier property, to be developed by Lorden. Barb had the Q3 Commitment of
$217,200.45 for the Commission's signature. Also, the Weston & Sampson contract which was discussed on 12/13 with
Pat Cotton, and agreed to, received and signed on 2/3, never had a formal vote to accept the contract. Troy made the
motion to ratify the consensus of the board to approve the contract, signed on February 3rd, Butch seconded. Vote
taken was unanimous. Barb pointed out the town-wide invitation for the Public Access Open House, and reviewed the
upcoming meeting dates of February 24, regular meeting at Town Hall, and the March 3rd workshop at the DPW on private
extensions.
Carl asked if anyone had anything more and said he would entertain a motion to adjourn. Butch made the motion, Troy
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous and the meeting was adjourned at 9:08pm
Respectfülly submitted,
Solael
Barbara Lefebvre
