===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
betterment, and this is the first year that it must be reflected in the new fiscal year budget. Carl pointed out that
any shortfall comes out of retained earnings eventually. Dave asked 'why the shortfall and Carl noted that by
leaving a reserve of 2.6 million for the Town and future connections, it reduced the betterment income coming in.
Carl, Barb & Karen Brochu, the Town Accountant, will need to look at the timeline of the loan, and the detail on
free cash and retained earnings after the budget process is over. Carl stated the revised budget has an overage
of $64,000 before the betterment deficit of $147,000 which he feels we can live with. The Commission discussed
the Infrastructure line, the history of spending, and that it is the line to absorb any emergency repairs. Also
discussed was the overage less deficit leaving $82,000 against retained earnings and the need to raise retained
earnings to help pay back loans. Dave asked how the new project will affect the budget. Carl noted that if we
assess the total project in betterments, it balances perfectly. But if we take some to set aside, we need to study
the result. We won't know the amount until the project is complete. Commission looked at Leominster usage
line item and reduced it down to the original budget amount of $235,000. Dave was concerned that Fitchburg
might be planning on a rate increase. Carl will check his notes for the negotiations to see if there is any
reference to the next rate increase. Legal expense was discussed and the costs for Hollis Hills. Carl had reduced
legal to the level that it was initially proposed. Carl asked if he could get a motion to go with the $64,000 budget.
Butch made the motion, Dave seconded. Carl asked for discussion. Dave wanted the l/l work reduced, and
suggested $5,000, also removing specific contractors' names from the budget document. Reducing the I/l project
by $0, long with the reduction infrastructure and Leominster usage, brings the new overage total to
$69,775.27. Carl restated the motion to approve the budget with the discussed changes, bringing the
proposed budget to a $69,000 overage. Vote taken was unanimous.
Private Sewer Extension workshop scheduling was tabled until the next meeting. I/l Spring 2015 project
Barb had received the Weston & Sampson contract for $30,000 which mirrored the proposal received and
discussed with Pat Cotton at the December meeting. Carl signed the contract. Discussion followed on the use of
peer reviews and when they are appropriate and whether we should have a second opinion on our project. None
was determined to be necessary when it is our own engineer. SRF Project status -Carl asked for a status on
the Easement paperwork. Barb provided the Commission with the latest checklist. She noted 6 owners that
haven't submitted the paperwork, which covers 9 parcels. Carl suggested reaching out to Larry Corbett, who
initiated the project, for assistance. Carl reached out to the Stevens and will be meeting with them on Saturday.
Barb reminded Carl that Jeff Blake, our town counsel, is available for anyone's concerns. Barb will reach out to
owners Amburgey & Raboin, Carl will reach out to Hitchcock and Dave will reach out to Kopley & Brogna. Barb
will send him the contact list. Brogna lives on Pleasant View Ave. Carl asked Barb to make sure the plan is on
the website. Dave asked Barb to send him paperwork that he can bring to people's houses including the plan.
Barb pointed out the email received from counsel today regarding eminent domain, and that it can be done very
quickly. Carl expressed his preference to do it via easements. We may need to go that route but not yet. Carl
brought up the fact that we want to have options for pumps and not just go with E-one, so that we can provide
the residents a choice. He has been talking with Kevin Olson from Wright Pierce on this and expects Kevin to
provide him the information. SWSS - SCADA progress -Barb noted that for the SCADA system on Leominster
Rd, SWSS and First Electric were hoping to be done last week but she hadn't received an update, and with the
winter weather, it may have been delayed. We had received a quote as requested for Mass 1 but it did not
include the remote access that they are doing on Leominster Rd. so Barb will ask Debbie to get back to us with
that included. Barb advised the Commission that Debbie couldn't quickly provide quotes for the remaining 8
since they are all different. Carl asked then that she get us the quotes are she gets them. Dave asked about the
progress on the generators. Barb will check. Whalom Luxury Apts. Letter to the Editor-All present approved
of the letter that Carl had sent to the editor to correct the 1/13/15 Sentinel article and felt it was important that it
===PAGE 2===
unanimous. Meeting adjourned at 8:55pm.
Respectfully submitted,
vole laneli was
