===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Public Comment
Dave McDonald (155 Island Road), a former commissioner, addressed the audience and Commission on the present hostility on
Pratt Street. He spoke for the sewer line to go in and for people to be more involved at town meetings. Lorrie Kunz (10 Rennie),
Paul Michaud (9 Pratt), Bruce Kunz (10 Rennie), Nancy Beach (180 Cross), Paul Moran (63 Pratt) and Greg Stevens (29
Lakeview) all came forward with their concerns and questions on the sewer extension. All questions and concerns were noted
and discussed by the Commission. Dave Rogers was invited to add his input as he is a former selectmen but not at the time of a
decision in question. He also questioned the Commission about an executive session which was addressed
Appointments
Paul Roberts from Home Owner Safety Valve made a presentation for existing sewer customers on information about insurance
for the sewer pipe between a home and the line in street. The commission then discussed the insurance with him.
Henry Albro from FR Mahoney presented information on E-One pumps. The presentation can be found on the website along with
a link to the broadcast.
Pastor Gary Moritz and Stan Dill from Twin City Baptist came for a grease trap hearing. They would like an exemption from the
regulation as they no longer serve lunch and do not use the 3-bay sink. The Commission discussed this with them. The
confusion about whether the external tank is an interceptor was also discussed.
Motion: Troy D
Second: Mike N.
To put the non-compliance fees on hold while the information we have and will receive is evaluated.
Discussion: Twin City is expected to be compliant in the meantime. The Commission will write a letter to the plumbing
inspector for clarification on the external tank.
Vote: Unanimous
Elmer from Dario's Pizza came for a grease trap hearing on their non-compliance and to request a waiver from additional fees.
He explained that they have been compliant but had not been submitting the documentation. The Commission discussed this
and his responsibility for the internal unit while the landlord is responsible for the external.
Motion: Mike N.
To waive the non-compliance fees since Dario's understands what needs to be done and agrees that he is now in
compliance
Discussion: It was clarified that it needs to be cleaned monthly and to show weekly inspections. Vote: Unanimous
Kevin Olson from Wright Pierce presented information on gravity systems and costs for Pratt Street. After the presentation, the
Commission emphasized that they would prefer one betterment and do not recommend two. Questions were then taken and
addressed by both the Commission and Kevin Olson. The presentation is available on the website except the fourth slide
because it could cause confusion. It is available upon request to discuss.
Current Business
Sewer Extension Project with Wright Pierce-The Commission discussed the pros and cons to delaying the project versus the
possibility of changing the order and having Lakeview done before Pratt. Sue B recused herself from the discussion due to her
proximity to the project. It was then opened up to public comment. No motion was made to change the order. The schedule will
stay the same.
Parcel Owners Requests- Three parcels on Cross Road have requested not to be part of sewer extension project. The
Commission discussed their request. Deb Sundstrom (214 Cross Road) asked the Commission several questions which were
addressed.
Motion: Troy D.
To proceed pursuant to town meeting to plans and pursuant to previous meetings on the topic of these properties.
Second: Mike N.
Vote: Unanimous
===PAGE 2===
planning to review/appoint was discussed.
Motion: Troy D.
To recommend John Reynolds appointment to the Sewer Commission
Invoices- Four invoices were reviewed and approved by the Commission
Upcoming Sewer Activities
July 14, 2015 - DPW 7pm Regular Meeting
Motion: Troy D.
To adjourn at 10:21pm
Respectfully Submitted,
suit
Lelto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
Second: Sue B.
Vote: Unanimous
Second:
Vote: Unanimous
