===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes for Joint Session- Board of Selectmen and Sewer Commission
Meeting of July 7, 2015 -- Town Hall, 17 Main St.
PRESENT: Carl Luck, Mike Nault, Troy Daniels, Sue Bunish (Board of Selectmen
PRESENT: Jaime Toale, Robert Ebersole, Paula Bertram, Phyllis Luck).
Carl Luck called meeting to order 7:15 p.m. (Board of Selectmen (BOS) meeting
was called to order at 7:00 p.m.) Carl Luck opened with comments to the BOS that
the Sewer Commission had taken a vote to support the appointment of John
Reynolds to the Sewer Commission. Jaime Toale requested John Reynolds to
come up to the microphone for an interview. John Reynolds, 91 Lancaster Ave.,
Lunenburg. John stated that he has lived in Lunenburg since 1988. When asked
why he wanted to serve on the Sewer Commission, stated that his kids finished
with school; He had attended one year's worth of Sewer Commission meetings
when the extension to serve his house went through; Stated that based on his
observations that he would like to work with the Sewer Commission.
Phyllis Luck stated that she noted John's Project Management experience and
thought he would be a good addition to the Sewer Commission and thanked him for
volunteering. John Reynolds stated that without Jaime Toale's contribution, the
extension on Lancaster which serves his home might not have happened and that
as a result of that extension he understood how sewer works. Jaime Toale stated
as a result of working with Mr. Reynolds on the Lancaster Avenue extension that he
could vouch for Mr. Reynolds and that he would support his appointment to the
Sewer Commission. Robert Ebersole stated that he was on the Sewer Commission
back when Mr. Reynolds was involved and met with him previously. Ebersole
stated that he was off the Sewer Commission before the project was finished, but
could attest to Reynolds' commitment and contribution. Ebersole noted that
Reynolds would be the only other person on the Sewer Commission currently on
sewer service and thought that would be a good thing.
Reynolds was asked if he would be available for continued service when the time
came for him to be reelected to the position, Mr. Reynolds responded that he would
be available.
Board of Select member Robert Ebersole made the motion to appoint John
Reynolds to the open Sewer Commission position, Paula Bertram
seconded. The vote was unanimous of all Board of Selectmen and Sewer
Commissioners present.
Jaime Toale stated that there were more vacancies in town and encouraged more
volunteers to come forward.
Adjournment -Carl Luck made a motion to adjourn the Sewer Commission
meeting at 7:30 p.m., Mike Nault seconded. Vote unanimous.
Respectfully submitted,
Troy Danto Dia
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 2 1 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
