===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Bill Severance from 768 West Street is looking to subdivide his property and will need a sewer extension to the new lot. The
Commission discussed the logistics of the project and what Bill S. will need to do on his part.
Twin City Baptist has rescheduled for November 10th. The Commission discussed the policy involved with the discontinuance of
a 3bay sink.
Sean Flanagan and Colleen Flanagan from Sean Patrick's came before the Commission to discuss their non-compliance to
grease trap requirements and the resulting fees. There was discussion on their situation and current policies on pumping and
inspections were reviewed.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: John R.
To waive non-compliance fees for Sean Patrick's up to this date to $100, payable within 7 business days to avoid any
additional non-compliance fees. Reporting should be up to date.
Discussion - The Commission discussed what would happen with future non-compliance.
Vote: Unanimous
Vote-Unanimous
Current Business
Pratt/Lakeview Sewer Extension project - The project is now substantially complete. Walt Rinki (Pine Road) had a question
on permits and also asked if the road was going to be paved. The Commission discussed the road paving for the project.
Applications for Permits to Connect - These can begin to be accepted on October 28, 2015
Pleasantview Ave Project Commencement - Sue B. recused herself from the discussion. The Commission reviewed updates
on the project.
Grease Traps - The Commission reviewed a list of non-compliant accounts. There was discussion on the biggest standouts on
the list and Small Water System Services. There was also discussion on how to get compliance. The follow-up Notices of Non-
Compliance forms were reviewed.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Sue B.
To accept the follow-up non-compliance fee for internal and external grease traps forms to be used by the business
manager
Vote: Unanimous
Fats, Oils & Grease (FOG) Workshop 10/6 - The Commission discussed follow-up actions form the workshop. The
requirement of monthly inspection of the external unit was also discussed. Another workshop on grease trap regulations will be
scheduled.
Private Extension process - The Commission reviewed and discussed the revisions made to private extension, surety bond
and privilege fees.
Road Opening Permit discussion - There was a discussion of what role the Sewer Commission has in this and the need to
define roles.
Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) remediation - I/l and ways to track it were discussed.
SCADA systems - Competitive Bid - The last quote from Small Water System Services was reviewed. The Commission then
discussed going out to bid.
Funding Sources for Public Projects/Individuals - There is no new information. The Commission discussed ways to get more
information.
Flow Rate/Metering - There is no update.
Business Systems and Process Improvement - There is no update.
Project Funds - Available funds were discussed and what they have been recently used for.
===PAGE 2===
November 3, 2015 - Workshop at pm - DPW
November 10, 2015 -Regular Commission meeting, DPW
November 16, 2015 - Special Town Meeting
Motion: Sue B.
To adjourn at 9:50pm
Respectfully Submitted,
mil dehto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
Second: Troy D.
Vote: Unanimous
