===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
hook up. The Commission discussed the timelines tor the project and noted that since Paul S. Will not need a pump.
Appointments
Steve Marsden (Elm Street) had an appointment regarding privilege fees but the issue has been resolved.
Current Business
Grease Traps - SWSS FY16 Proposal - The Commission reviewed and discussed the proposal. Discussion followed on
scheduling a workshop with Small Water System Services to discuss some issues. Non-compliant customers - An updated
handout of non-compliant customers was reviewed by the Commission and discussed. Sean Patrick's will be sent a certified
letter advising on the accumulating fee. Deactivation discussion - There was discussion on the process for deactivation of a
grease trap/interceptor and the need for a policy on what it takes to deactivate.
Pratt/Lakeview Sewer Extension project - Project status - The Commission discussed the process of line acceptance and
the timing on betterment. Scheduling a workshop was discussed to better understand assessing betterments and setting a
reserve.
Review of Pay Applications 1, 2 - Both pay applications were reviewed. Pay application 1 has already been processed.
Motion: Mike N
To move forward with payment #2
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Grinder pumps- Specifications and Vendor quotations - Models by E-One and Flygt meet specifications and were
discussed. There was also discussion on what should be required of residents and on revising the permit to connect application.
The new quotes and that they meet specifications will be posted on the web. Barb L. and John R. will work on revising
application.
Motion: John R.
Second: Sue B.
To accept the document "Residential Grinder Pump Station Specifications" for a simplex submersible grinder pump
Vote: Unanimous
dated 9/14/15
Pleasantview Sewer Extension project - CJP proposal - The proposal was received but the Commission is still waiting on the
DEP approval of SRF change order which requires a Certificate of Title from counsel. The Commission discussed the situation.
Wright Pierce activities - Grinder pump specification and Sewer Regulation update - It was noted that Wright Pierce had
provided a quote and was given authorization to work on the grinder pump specs. Manhole Inspections for DEP Grant - The
Commission reviewed the reduced quote provided and DEP's approval to begin in spring.
339 Electric Ave - Leominster Monument Co. - The Commission reviewed the reviewing engineer's report and discussed the
proposed increased use. Barb L. will send a memo to the engineer for the applicant with the privilege and connections fees and
invite them to attend a meeting to discuss the change of use.
Highfield Village project - Whitman and Bingham is now the engineer and the plans were reviewed.
Privilege fee assessment - The Commission discussed the need for clarification.
Order of Assessment -30 Elm St., 40 Elm St., & 7 Riley Rd. - The order of assessment was signed off on to record the
assessment.
SWSS-Pump stations - Francis St generator - An issue with the controller was reviewed. Reports - The weekly reports were
reviewed and there were no issues.
Sewer Commission Projects update - Funding Sources for Public Projects/Individuals - The EOCD Septic Grant was
discussed along with a tax credit. Flow Rate/Metering - The Commission discussed issues with a meter's location.
Business Manager Report - Three invoices from Wright Pierce were reviewed and signed. Website - Information put on the
sewer website was reviewed. Public hearings notice - Zeda's (1 Main Street) will have a hearing on September 23rd with the
Zoning Board.
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activities
September 29, 2015 - Town Hall 7pm Regular Meeting
September 30, 2015 - Open Meeting Workshop
===PAGE 2===

