===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
would include three uses: monument, pet daycare service racility and small retali and grooming services. Ine real connection to
the sewer shows one stub at the corner but there is uncertainty about the accuracy. The business is not currently hooked up to
the sewer and they were informed that there will be a different process and fees. The layout of the new building was reviewed.
There was concern raised about pet hair getting in the pipes. Nick explained that a standard drain is used and very little hair gets
down the drain but they are willing to put in an aftermarket tilter. It was proposed having a sign by each drain stating that hair
cleared needs to be thrown in trash and not down the drain as a simple solution. There were no other concerns, relative to
sewer, in the peer review. The Commission went on to discuss the privilege fee and when it should be assessed.
Motion: Mike N.
Seconded: Troy D.
To accept the Change of Use for 339 Electric Ave, which included the Petlift Machine
Vote Unanimous
The Commission decided to vote at the same time to assess the privilege fee for 339 Electric Avenue for the additional usage.
Motion: Mike N.
To assess a privilege fee in the sum of $11,551.47
Seconded: Sue B.
Vote Unanimous
Twin City Baptist Request for waiver - Grease Trap Non-compliance fees
Stan Dill and Janna Moritz from Twin City Baptist Church came to request a waiver from Grease Trap requirements. There is
currently a 3bay sink that is not used and Stan has stated that there has been a physical disconnect. They do not want to get rid
of the bay sink because the status of the kitchen might change one day and they would need it. There was concern that it could
be reconnected without the Commission's knowledge. The requirements for an internal trap and an external one was clarified.
Janna confirmed that they are aware if they take out the 3bay sink, it takes out their responsibility. The Commission noted that
the disconnected 3bay sink cannot be kept onsite and must be moved to storage. Twin City will need to notify the Commission
that the 3bay is out and get the plumbing inspector to sign off on the plumbing permit. Once it is submitted, it would be
considered disconnected. Janna confirmed that until then they would submit reports monthly and she asked what to do about the
fees. The Commission agreed that everything would be put on hold until this is resolved and Twin City becomes compliant. At
that time, the Commission will decide what to do with the fees and will notify Twin City in writing.
Peter Dulchinos, Meadowwoods Trailer Park- Request for waiver - Reconnection fee
Peter Dulchinos came before the Commission to request a waiver for reconnection fees. He stated that there is a high turnover
at the park and that in general the trailer is left in place and the connection is there. The Commission clarified that if the trailer is
left in place, than there is no reconnection fee. But because Lot 26 had the old trailer removed and a new one brought in there
will be a reconnection fee. Peter asked if that reconnection fee could be reduced or waived. He has found people to move in but
the grants received were not as good as they would have liked when water and sewer were brought in. Peter stated that the park
is owned by the Gonynor Trust but there is a potential buyer. The people own their trailer but rent the lot. There was discussion
on who pays the fee. The Commission noted that Lot 26 is like any other property in town that burns down. If the reconnection
fee is waived than it sets a precedent that others will seek. It was noted that a compelling reason would be needed for the
Commission to grant a waiver. The Commission agreed that they have no interest in revisiting the reconnection fee.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Pratt/Lakeview Project status- Connections, Paving response - There are seven permits to connect. An email has been
sent out to those with a known email address and it has also been posted on the website that connections could commence for
the Pratt/Lakeview areas. The permit still needs to be updated with the pump specifications and the Commission would like to
make sure the manufacturer and model number are also added to the permit. Paving Response - Out of the eighty residents
contacted only eleven have responded and of that eight did not want paving to be their cost.
Pleasantview Ave Project schedule - Construction is to commence on November 12th.
Wright Pierce - Contracts - 1) Grinder Pump - The Sewer Commission approved the task order for $2000. 2) CWMP update
- The proposal was discussed and would cost $19000. It was approved by the Commission and it will be put on the ATM for
===PAGE 2===
e problem nas to de stopped e interest fale tonte tod wil de de cas desse making people aware or tre
grant through advertising and announcements. There is no other update. The EOCD will be followed up on.
Flow Rate/Metering - The Commission discussed ways to get a handle on number of gallons billed versus gallons of flow. It
was agreed that all needed data was present.
Business Systems and Process Improvement - It was discussed brining someone else in to do the minutes. It will be
advertised to town employees to add hours.
Irrigation meter discussion-new technology - Will be discussed at next meeting.
Permits to Connect - There are nine permits to connect. They are: 43 and 71 Pratt Street; 31, 34, 36, and 46 Pine Grove Road;
and 1, 3, 5 Riley Road
Minutes - The special meeting from November 3rd was discussed and the minutes reviewed.
Motion: Troy D.
To approve minutes from 11/3 Special Meeting
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Pump station reports review -weeks ending 10/24, 10/31/15 - Maintenance at the Francis Street and Mass 1 pump stations
were discussed. Mass 1 has a crack in the ceiling and it will be checked to see if insurance will cover it.
Business Manager Report
Public Hearing Notices-The Highfield Village hearing will be continued to January 11, 2016. Highfield Village was briefly
discussed and whether they would be assessed privilege fees or betterments. It will be put on a future agenda for further
discussion. There will be two hearings on November 23, 2015 for 175 Northfield Road and 1 Main Street (Zeda's).
Invoices for approval - There were two invoices: One from Kopelman and Paige for $1,139 and another invoice from CJP for
Pay Req. #3 in the amount of $136,153.09.
Website updates - No update.
UPCOMING SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES
There will be a regular meeting at Town Hall on November 24, 2015 at 7pm.
Motion: Troy D.
To adjourn at 9:34 pm
Second: Mike N.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully submitted,
mily Lehto, Minutes Assistar
