===PAGE 1===
CL,DM,BB,MN    
 
 
Minutes of 3/17/15 Sewer Commission meeting - DPW c onference room 520 Chase Rd.  Attendees: Chair, Carl Luck, 
Vice-Chair, Dave MacDonald; Members, Mike Nault, Bu tch Bilotta, Business Manager, Barb Lefebvre.  Abse nt:  Troy 
Daniels  
 
Carl opened the meeting at 7:01pm, and introduced t he 1 
st  appointment, Kevin Olson and Matt Corbin of Wright  Pierce 
regarding the Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project. Kevin provided a copy of the bid schedule to review  the status of the 
Construction Bid.  Dave confirmed that the bid was advertised in the Ledger and Central Register. Plan s are available at 
Wright Pierce for pickup and at the DPW for review only. On 4/1, there is a pre-bid meeting 10am at To wn Hall for 
questions. Matt will be there. On 4/15, bids are op ened at 2pm. Wright Pierce will review the bids, ch eck figures, do 
reference checks. Carl plans to be there and Jack R odriquenz. Once the lowest responsible bidder is ch osen, they’ll send 
request to DEP to award the bid which they expect b y 5/22, with the notice to proceed issued by June 5 .  This has to 
happen before 6/30 per SRF rules. Kevin assured the  group that these dates are not etched in stone. Da ve agreed that 
Wright Pierce is best suited to go through the bids  to select the lowest responsive bidder, that’s why  we hired them. They’ll 
look at the bids and check that the bids have all t he information. Kevin added that it is not necessar ily their decision but a 
Mass General law ruling.  Whether the Sewer Commiss ion needs to vote on it is up to them but not many communities that 
they’ve worked with bring it to a vote. It is usual ly just the lowest responsive bid but someone appoi nted by the Sewer 
Commission or Jack can select the bidder also. Carl  stated that we’ll target the end of April for anno uncement. It was 
determined that Wright Pierce will run the bid open ing meeting.  Estimated Betterment– Carl asked for Kevin’s input on 
sending out estimated betterments to help with inte rim financing. Kevin asked whether it could wait un til after the bid 
opening because cost is the biggest variable and we ’ll have a better sense after we’ve opened the bids . Carl asked for the 
process in doing this but Kevin had not had any tow n he’s worked with do one before. Also, this is a v ery short-term project. 
Kevin will check but meanwhile we can check with ou r counsel whether it is something we can do. Matt h anded out the 
latest cost estimate with bottom line of $1,888,000 .  Dave asked whether Wright Pierce is coordinating  the work with the 
water department and Unitil. Matt answered that Lun enburg Water is not involved but they had been in t ouch with Joe Z of 
National Grid and will coordinate. Dave stated that  there had been conversation and that Unitil should  share in pavement 
costs, start with 50%. Kevin said that they would i nitiate the request.  Mike noted one line item for replacement of water 
main and Matt stated it was there for contingency o nly.  Matt also provided one mylar and 2-3 paper co pies of the 12/5/14 
plan relating to the easements that counsel will li kely wish to record at the Registry of Deeds.  Pleasant View Ave 
Betterment and SRF modification discussion– Carl summarized the Pleasantview issue for Bob Eber sole who had 
joined the meeting to provide the information to th e Board of Selectmen next Tuesday, adding that the Commission is 
moving forward on having Pleasantview on the warran t for Town Meeting. Kevin added that there is a def inite upside to both 
cost and schedule to add this street to the Pratt/L akeview project as you can usually negotiate a good  price with contractor 
as long as the Town and Kerry is okay with adding i t in.  Commission discussed having as addendum or s eparate project 
and how quickly we would have it designed and what the cost would be.  Kevin noted that the design cou ld be done in 
August and handed to contractor and under that scen ario, contractor could get the work done by 11/15. We’ll need to check 
with Kerry if it has to be done as a separate proje ct or as a change order. Matt noted that DEP needs to approve anything 
over $100k as a change order and he will check tomo rrow if DEP would be favorable. Carl will check wit h Kerry on the 
change order and what the bond interest may be.  Ke vin stated that even if the change order is approve d by DEP and 
Kerry, there is always the option to do it as a sep arate project. Kevin noted that there is also a que stion of the water main 
replacement.  Matt provided a quick number for 600’  of $175 per linear foot, for an 8” water main woul d be about a 
$105,000 project. Kevin added that the contractors would lay the deep sewer 1 st , lay water next and pave only once.  Carl 
noted that it complicates SRF and Matt added that t hey can do it but water would be considered ineligi ble for the SRF so 
there was no action taken.  Matt also brought up th at Leominster currently provides the water to the s treet and who would 
own the line if Lunenburg fixed the pipes. Dave add ed who would pay for the repair. Carl stated that K erry was thinking this 
would be a water betterment. Dave requested that th is Commission not get tied up in this issue and tha t it is really between 
the Town and Leominster. The Water District does no t extend to that area. Carl noted that Jack wants L eominster to handle 
it. Kevin asked about getting the water item on the  warrant. Carl stated that the deadline for placeho lders is March 23, and 
there is just not enough time.   Matt had done rese arch on the comparison of grinder pumps  which was handed out. Carl 
noted that it is good to have an option but the E-o ne proves to be preferable and it may be best to st andardize with the one 
pump. Kevin noted that there are 7 – 8 different pu mp vendors and Matt reviewed each one. But when the y looked at design 
it worked better with E-one, adding that they are i ndustry leaders, service is really important, and t hat they are on-call 24/7. 
Other vendors require residents to pull out the pum p and ship it to the plant for repair. Butch noted that it makes sense to 
stay with one pump. Kevin noted the value of having  all pumps same. Dave notes his concern for taking out competition in 
the pricing. Kevin stated that the resident doesn’t  have to go with the recommendation, but we could b ring in FRMahoney, 
pre-negotiate and hold them to a number.  We could save $2-300 per pump. Carl brought up the extended warranties. 
Commission discussed other vendors, and their desig n. Carl asked Wright Pierce to find two pumps that would technically 
work and then negotiate with E-one. They have a gre at reputation adding that Chelmsford requires their  use and Harvard 
lists them in their connection paperwork. Dave want s to do a comparison (i.e. extended warranty, equip ment breakdown, 
etc) and let the Commission negotiate the best deal  for the Lunenburg residents.  
===PAGE 2===
CL,DM,BB,MN    
 
Kevin will talk to Flygt and do a budget bid, then compare. Carl wants it before the neighborhood meet ing. DEP Tech 
Assistance Grant Solicitation  – Carl would like a grant to help us do more on th e CWMP or at least start discussion, and 
there is an opportunity to get additional funding. Matt stated that at a DEP pre-proposal meeting last  week, he learned that 
once they rank the priorities, they will give out t he full $30,000 until it’s gone. The priorities wou ld be in asset improvement 
(hardware) so the chance of getting the money to up date the CWMP is not likely.  The fund, originally at $2.7million was 
reduced to $400,000. Dave asked what we need to go after. Kevin said they would take another look, get  more guidance on 
the criteria.  With the pot reduced, not a lot of c ommunities may go after it. Carl asked what asset m anagement needs do 
we have that would qualify. Kevin noted water drain age, Matt suggested software for asset management. Kevin added that 
the grant application is due 4/14 which is not a lo t of time.  Matt also pointed out the median income  for Lunenburg is 
around $76,000. With the statewide average at $66-6 8K, by being above the town would have to contribut e 25% to the 
project. Kevin notes he just wanted to manage the C ommission’s expectations, that the percent chance o f winning is low.  
Carl asked and Kevin noted the proposed changes to the CWMP: Fitchburg IMA, needs areas, SSA adjustmen ts, re-routing 
flow. Carl stated that it is important to update th e document, at the same level of detail and asked W right Pierce to provide 
the cost, understanding that the amount of monies a vailable affects the scope. Matt confirmed that the  Commission had 
budgeted $20,000 in FY16. Kevin stated that to do i t right, it could be a bit more, but no more than $ 40,000. Dave asked for 
the priority. Kevin noted that the Fitchburg re-rou te would be first.   Kevin asked if there’d been an y conversation with 
Leominster. Carl stated we have the capacity, but a sked if there were any issues on the horizon with L eominster. Kevin 
stated that there are more with Fitchburg. Carl wil l discuss with Kerry and Jack to see if there are o ther areas of town for the  
DEP assistance grant and pass it along. Kevin noted  the DEP tech assistance work must be completed by 12/31/15.  
  
Grant of Easement vote - Carl read the motion for the Easements, “That we approve and acce pt the easements 
granted by the land owners for sewer purposes over those portions of Lakeview Avenue, Sunset Avenue, a nd 
Harris Avenue shown on a plan entitled “Lakeview Av enue, Sunset Avenue, Harris Avenue, Lunenburg, MA, 
Drawing Title: Easements & Rights of Way Survey,” d ated December 5, 2014, prepared by Lighthouse Land 
Surveying LLC. ” Dave stated ‘so moved’, Butch seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.  Commissioners signed off on 
the 14 Easement documents.   Eminent domain request for 40 Lakeview Avenue (112- 40)- Carl then read the motion 
for the Order of Taking, “That we approve and sign the Order of Taking by Eminent Domain of permanent easement 
for sewer purposes in a portion of Lakeview Avenue in “Easement Area A”  adjoining the lot shown as “W haloma 
Park” on a plan of land entitled “Lakeview Avenue, Sunset Avenue, Harris Avenue, Lunenburg, MA, Drawin g Title: 
Easements & Rights of Way Survey,” dated December 5 , 2014, prepared by Lighthouse Land Surveying, LLC;  and 
further to award no damages to the property owner; and further to authorize Town Counsel to record the  Order of 
Taking with the Worcester-North County Registry of Deeds within thirty (30) days of this date.”  Dave made the 
motion to accept , Butch seconded . Carl asked for discussion on the verbiage in the Order of Taking document regarding 
the statement that no betterment would be assessed on this property. Barb stated that that is because up until now, the 
property has been “owners unknown”, and that counse l has left it open, in case upon further research i t is determined that 
Ivers is not the true owner. Barb read from the Ord er “Said land is owned or supposed to be owned and/ or formerly owned 
by the persons listed below, hereinafter collective ly referred to as the Owner.  If in any instance th e name of the Owner is 
not correctly stated, the name of the supposed Owne r being given as of this Order of Taking, it is und erstood that in such 
instance the land referred to is owned by an Owner or Owners unknown to us....  Owner: Ivers P. Lawren ce and his heirs 
and devisees under Worcester Probate No. 178810, Pr operty Address:  “Whaloma Park,” Lakeview Avenue, L unenburg, 
Massachusetts”. Barb noted that the name of Ivers s urfaced after this recent title search, but the lik elihood of reaching him 
or his estate is slim, since the plan was recorded around 1901 and he is long gone. Barb added that th e Town had been 
unable to do a taking, or collect taxes. Commission  discussed and determined to be better to assess be tterments that we 
had a chance of collecting. Carl asked for a vote. Vote taken was unanimous.  Commission signed the Order of Taking 
document.   
  
 
 
Current Business 
 
Town Meeting Warrant articles – Commission discussed the 3 placeholders to go on th e warrant, which need to be 
submitted to Kerry on 3/23. Commission first discus sed the Pleasant View placeholder, #2. Carl was con cerned that it would 
cover the extension if the SRF funding option did n ot happen. Barb will confirm with Jeff Blake. Commi ssion also discussed 
the highlighted text: “provided that the Sewer Comm ission may expend such funds only if at least __ of  such borrowing is 
through the State Revolving Fund loan program based  upon eligibility in Calendar Year 2016” which Jeff  had included, and 
wanted it removed. Barb will advise counsel that we  want to take out that clause, and clarify that the  placeholder works 
whether we use SRF or not. Dave made the motion to take out the highlighted section and clarify with c ounsel.  He then 
revised the motion to state that we submit the placeholder for the Pleasant View extension after it has been u pdated 
and approved by Carl. Butch seconded. Vote taken wa s unanimous.  Article 1 is the  standard budget request 
previously approved by the Commission and for Artic le 3, Carl described the Reserve Capacity Fee Stabi lization Fund and 
===PAGE 3===
CL,DM,BB,MN    
 
the need for the stabilization fund to be put in pl ace. Carl asked for a motion to put the stabilization fund forward. Mike 
made the motion for Article 3, Butch seconded. Vote  taken was unanimous.   
 
SWSS was skipped over since it was getting late, and the y have been invited to come to the last meeting in March.  Dave 
wasn’t sure that was good timing.  Barb noted that Weston & Sampson had submitted a qu ote for the T own-wide Manhole 
Project for $25,000. Commission wanted to pass over it unti l the next meeting. Carl added that we had received  a formal 
quote from Pat for the Manhole Plotting job for $1000 and asked for a vote to authorize app roving that work. Dave made 
the motion to update the manhole mapping in town for $1 000, Butch seconded. Vote taken was unanimous .  
 
Sewer Commission Projects update- Carl asked to move quickly through the rest of the agenda as it was getting late.  
I/I reduction project – Barb noted that we hadn’t yet received a package from Weston & Sampson to start the I/I job.  
37 Graham -  Barb stated that we’d received a quote for a liner to seal off 37 Graham St from Weston & Sampson for 
$4750. Jack had provided an estimate of $3500 to have it d ug up to disconnect. Barb noted that per Jack’s ema il of 3/17 
that he was in favor of the using this technology f or both 37 Graham and the issue at Elizabeth to mak e it more cost 
effective.  Discussion followed with Dave expressin g his serious disappointment that the issue at Eliz abeth had not yet 
been resolved. He wanted it on record that he thoug ht that the Elizabeth St. job was done. Mike agreed , and they want the 
manhole filled.  Discussion continued and both Dave  & Mike felt the pipe should be cut, and when new o wners take over, 
they’ll have to pay to reconnect. Carl added there may be additional costs as well, if we are paying f or the disconnection. 
Carl made the case for the liner, as that would acc omplish stopping the flow in the main.  Dave asked to have Proctor or 
Powell price a bladder as it may be better to have local guys do the work. Carl suggested getting anot her quote for digging a 
hole and putting in a bladder. Butch made a motion to dig a hole and cap the pipe for $3500. Mike seconded . 
Discussion continued with Carl stating that the Com mission should hear from Jack as it is on the opera tions side. Dave 
wants Elizabeth Street fixed and the pipe cut at 37  Graham. Carl is still not comfortable for the Comm ission to be making an 
operations decision without Jack being present. But ch noted there was an open motion. Vote taken, 3 for, 1 against.   
Flow Rate/Metering – Barb noted that Flow Assessment is coming out on Th ursday to replace the corroded unit on Mass 
Ave. Both Al Packard(SWSS) and Mike hope to be ther e.  Discussion followed on the unit that had been r eplaced after the 
accident had leveled it and they had put it undergr ound to prevent the same happening again. But Flow Assessment had 
informed Barb that because it is underground and sh allow, the moisture will continue to continue to co rrode and Barb has 
asked for a quote for the above-ground cabinet. Annual Town report submittal –  Barb noted we’d received the request, 
and hopes to have something by the end of the month . Barb noted that she had completed the  Public records request for 
Aro Estates last week. Town Caucus on March 16 – Carl stated that there were no candidates for nomin ation. There will 
be a  Joint Executive Session with Board of Selectmen on  Hollis Hills  on March 24 at 6pm at Town Hall.  Barb noted 
that there were no Minutes for review.   Business Manager report – Barb reminded the Commission of the FY16 Budget 
Presentation to FinCom on 3/19 at 7:30pm. Barb provided the most recent Fi nCom handout that Carl had provided.  Carl 
noted that the most interesting section is the char ts where the two funds are shown and noted that the  funds’ lowest point is 
in 2018 . He added that this is extremely conservative, howev er, and doesn’t take into consideration privilege f ees, new 
connections, or the Lorden 40B units. Dave noted ad ditional accomplishments of the Commission that wer e not shown, 
including public awareness and the SCADA units. Bar b noted that because of the work of the Commission with pump 
station monitoring and grease trap reports, that th e town saved 2% on the cost of insurance.   She reminded the 
Commission of the Volunteer Appreciation Social on 3/31at 6pm at the Eagle House.  She had sent out  172 Q3 
demands today.   Carl asked for Commissioners Comme nts. Dave stated that as far as Small Water attendi ng the 
televised meeting on the 31 st , he wasn’t sure that was the best time to have the m come.  Commission discussed possibly 
moving them to a non-televised meeting and Carl sai d he would consider it.  Mike thought the $9000 est imate for the 2 nd  
SCADA was high since subsequent installations were supposed to be cheaper.  
  
Adjournment 
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn. Mike made the  motion, Dave seconded. Vote taken was unanimous an d the 
meeting was adjourned at 9:55pm.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Barbara Lefebvre    
 
 
 