===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
grease traps in line. John noted he was more concerned about oil down a floor drain than the container of waste oil and
agreed that it may not be worth the effort to regulate. Discussion turned to floor drains and whether they are connected to
sewer and if so, that should be more the focus. Carl asked whether code wouldn't require that floor drains go into an
interceptor, and that we need to learn more. All agreed we have more control on new establishments, but questioned what
we could do retro-actively. We need to obtain plans and that may not be easy on older accounts. Troy brought up the issue
before the Commission several months ago of a restaurant where there were floor drains and the town paid to camera the
lines and determination going forward was based on the past activity, stating he wasn't sure that was the way to go. He
didn't see where a previous establishment and what they did mattered and would like to see policy developed going
forward. Carl stated that there is no floor drain at 1 Main, and that we did follow policy based on the terms ' if we see grease
in the lines'. The new owner did upgrade the grease trap but didn't put in a floor drain. Troy questioned the use of the word
may' in policy and said it leaves a lot of room for discretion. Carl noted that that is better as requiring an interceptor may
or may not be necessary, and in some cases, may or may not make the business feasible. He'd vote for not requiring an
external interceptor for any change of use. Troy noted that it depends on the business and when it is for pizza and French
fries, that the location may require the external interceptor. Troy wanted to know the policy on when they may need an
interceptor. Carl stated that there isn't a policy that can cover every 'may' and that it is more important for the commission to
set up a policy for how to decide - a checklist with projections, significant change, a list of questions to go through... John
believed that the state's CMR has the requirements, based on amount of liquid and rate of flow. Carl noted that the 3 bay
sink was the only requirement. Troy noted that the main reason for tonight - is that our requirement is too burdensome.
First topic to discuss was our requirement for monthly inspection of external grease traps/interceptors and the difficulty of
the physical inspection. Troy asked how the records differ between what we've received on internal vs external. Troy asked
how the IMA's and even how Leominster and Fitchburg deal with the issue. Carl noted that it falls mostly on the Boards of
Health in those cities. Carl did note that he had talked with Jim Gareffi about a situation where the Commission, due to non-
compliance, could remove the permit to discharge to sewer and Jim agreed that then the BOH would have to remove their
ability to serve. It can be done as a process, but Carl was unsure if it would work. Troy noted that the sections in our regs
dealing with Board of Health should be updated. We should leave the language in Section V, but in Sections N or J, we
should remove BOH language as it is too arduous. Discussion turned to the requirements and the accounts' willingness to
comply. Barb noted how many restaurants took issue with the monthly external requirements and the likelihood of getting
compliance. She noted that Carl at the Bootleggers had a lot of good points, but that she has been unable to get him to
come to a meeting to present them to the Commission. Sue added that in her opinion, we should leave it to the
professionals, leaving the inspections bi-annually and only do monthly inspections that are necessary based on their
submitted paperwork.
Commission discussed just charging $250 and covering the costs of inspections with the funds. Carl would like this area of
responsibility to be self-funded.
He added that if we can't get the professionals to do it, we could contract with SWSS to
do the check and make this its own enterprise fund, passing the costs on to the customers and not the sewer customers.
John suggested having SWSS do the inspections once a quarter. Sue added that once we have the requirements for each
tank, we then pass it on to the owner to maintain. John stated that we use SWSS to compile data on the tank and determine
the frequency. Troy confirmed that this only applies to the external interceptors. All agreed.
Sue suggested that we talk to SWSS -have them identify the external interceptor, get the specifications, and set up a plan
going forward. By going to every one of the site, we'll learn what needs to be done. Troy asked about getting rid of
reporting for now. Carl agreed, saying that we should get the data in line with the regs and how it is written. We have a
regulation that people aren't complying with anyway. Troy agreed saying that it would be tough to enforce non-compliance
fees and then change the rules. We should adopt a policy soon, and backoff the external requirements for now. Carl said
that it bothers him to look the other way but we can tell the restaurants that we need them to work with our supplier to get a
better process in place.
Troy asked what to do about seasonal or those accounts who no longer needed equipment but still had on site. The
Commission reviewed those customers, past and present, who needed to come off the list: Harley House, Twin City, Centre
Pizza, Conrads. Sue noted that we are overdue for an external for Centre Pizza and Conrads was behind as well.
===PAGE 2===
Troy brought up the email he had sent regarding automotive waste oil, and that the DEP and Fire Dept. seem to have it well
covered. Plus, the Fire Dept has assured Troy that they will keep us informed of any discoveries or spills that occur that
affect the sewer and that if we are suspicious of anything, or Leominster or Fitchburg alert us to excess oil in the
wastewater, that we can contact the Fire Department to investigate.
Based on what he'd heard with DEP and Fire, he did
not feel it was worth changing regs, addressing the issue of waste oil or pursuing compliance. Commission discussed and
based on this agreed that we could take Walmart off our list.
Barb noted that shell contact SWSS for a contract to cover preliminary inspections of external interceptors to obtain the
sizes, capacities and measurements. Also to inventory floor drains in each restaurant. Commission discussed where in
the regs we could add the issue of taking an account off of the compliance list, and determined that Section VI was the best
section to add details about reviewing accounts to determine if they still qualify for requirements under the Regulations.
Troy may try to work on the wording.
Discussion turned to the paving responses on the sewer project and whether we actually can remove paving from the
contract and if there would be any legal basis for a challenge if we did so.
Sue noted we have another week to take in
Troy, in absence of the chair, asked for a motion to adjourn. Sue made the motion, John seconded. Meeting was adjourned
at 7:38pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Sewer Business Manager for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
