===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Pleasantview Project status
The project was completed on December 1st. A substantial completion submittal has not been received. Barb will
check with Matt on this.
Highfield Village-allocation agreement questions/clarification
There are concerns with the Allocation Agreement and whether it is at the capacity that is needed and also with
whether privilege fees were appropriate. Troy D. stated that he could not remember anything that would link the
allocation to whether the privilege fee would be assessed. Discussion followed on the history of the Mass Ave sewer
installation and how the line was gifted to the Town by investors. It was determined that the Commission will go to
counsel to look at the agreement and get a reading on whether or not Highfield will need to pay privilege fees. It was
proposed that Carl L. and Troy D. would draft a request for counsel review.
Grease Traps -
The proposed posting is being tabled for now as it may be edited further once the procedure is changed. It is now
proposed that Small Water System Services be authorized to do inspections on the interceptors and provide training
to people. It is hoped that by the end of 2 to 3 months there will be a better understanding and more tools to help
clean up current requirements and that people will be better trained. The original draft of scope was reviewed. The
first step is SWS will meet with the Commission and the second is to make the inspections and provide reports.
The cost was discussed and it was decided that Carl L. and Barb L. Will negotiate with Deb from SWSS
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Sue B
To authorize SWSS for scope of work not to exceed 36 hours or 2500
Vote Unanimous
As directed by the Sewer Commission
Minutes Assistance - Administrative Clerk
Barb noted that there were two candidates, both employed in the Lunenburg school system. One appears to be full-time and is
paid $21.87/hour, the other part-time and paid $15. Carl asked if we have to pay overtime. Commission discussed whether we
are required to pay them at the same rate as their day job. Barb will check with Kerry. Troy said he'd rather see someone in town
get the job rather than go outside if they are interested. Barb pointed out the option of contracting with them both - maybe one
to do current minutes, and the other to do backlog. Troy would rather we pick one person for consistency and not employ both.
Carl asked to take a vote to allocate the funding. Carl noted that if we had to pay the higher paid candidate time and a half, that
we would be paying her double the amount of the other candidate. Commission wants to leave it up to Barb to select. Carl added
that he is not in favor of paying anyone $30/hour and that we should go outside if that is necessary.
Motion: Troy D
To authorize Barb to initiate hiring of a person for assistance with minutes
Second: Sue B
Vote Unanimous
and other duties for up to $200 per month as administrative assistant.
Sewer Commission Projects
Private Extension -Troy suggested that paragraph 3 in Section 10 under privilege fees be omitted and discussed at
a later time and to submit the rest. He also stated to make sure that surety bond could cover performance as well.
Otherwise, remove surety and have them be post bonds. A clean copy that strikes the paragraph and surety will be
presented for approval at a later meeting.
SCADA system - Wright Pierce came and looked at Leominster Road and Dana Street and came back with a low
estimate. The Commission discussed the quantity, discounts and timing for doing it all. Debbie will look into an
update of the quote again.
===PAGE 2===
for 459 Sunnyhill Rd and1205 Mass Ave.
Pump stations -The costs for DPW were discussed and whether Small Water System Services could help with jobs
such as raking and cleaning outside.
Business Manager Report
Commitment for Q2 billing - Q2 is currently $189,483.42.
CWMP - The proposed updates were discussed. Wright Pierce will strictly focus on changes made to strategy and
review the cost estimates.
Motion - Troy D
To approve the Wright Pierce contract for $19,800 for 198 hours as proposed 12/7/15 to be signed by town
Vote Unanimous
Manhole Inspections - The manhole agreement with Wright Pierce was discussed. The technical assistant grant
from the state, that will help fund this, was also discussed.
Motion - Troy D.
Second -Sue B.
To approve the Wright Pierce contract of $35,600 subject to the 30k technical assistant grant from MA,
obligating the sewer commission to $7,500 as proposed 9/25/15
Vote Unanimous
Public Hearing notices 1) ZBA 12/9/15-321 Electric Ave- Central Mass Motorcycles is opening and will still be
automotive restoration and repair 2) Planning Board 12/14/15-357 Electric Ave - Unitil is proposing moving their base
of operations to this location.
Permit to Connect form update - The form has been updated to reflect the addition of asking which grinder pump
is going to be used.
Invoices - Six invoices were presented for approval. An invoice from Koppelman and Paige, Fitchburg and
Leominster were approved for payment. There was a question on jobs coming in under with the three invoices from
Wright Pierce. They will be contacted on where we are on the contract.
Website updates - No update.
License renewal - The letters sent out had a great response. Only four food service enterprises are still
s sent to the Board
noncompliant: Dario's, Ixtapa, Donnelly's and Ugly Omelet. A list of the outstanding accounts was sent to the Board
of Selectman on November 20t. It is hoped that by the first of January everyone is in complianace.
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on December 15, 2015 and will be a Joint Executive Session with the Board of Selectmen
about Hollis Hills at Town Hall. Sue B. and John R. will be unable to attend.
There will be no Regular Sewer Commission meeting on December 29, 2015.
Motion: Troy D.
To adjourn at 10:00pm
Second: Mike N.
Vote Unanimous
Respectively Submitted,
Til Lelto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
