===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Appointments -Pete Romprey from Water Resource Technologies gave a power point presentation on the Flygt Grinder Pump.
The presentation can be found on the website along with a link for the broadcast. After the presentation, the Commission
discussed with Pete R. and Todd Beluso and questions were addressed
Current Business
Pratt/Lakeview Sewer Extension Project -The status was reviewed and everything is ahead of schedule. Paving and the
additional cost was also discussed.
Pleasantview Ave. Sewer Extension Project status - The engineering documents for betterment are complete and have been
sent to CJP for an estimate.
Manhole Inspections for DEP Grant - It was noted that a grant was received by the state to do the inspections. The updated
proposal by Wright Pierce was reviewed and discussed
Grease Trap - Inspections FY16 and SWSS FY16 Proposal - The Commission thanked the grease trap owners who assisted
in the inspections. The proposal from Small Water System Services will be on the agenda for next meeting
Privilege Fee Assessment - 0 Sunnyhill Rd, Lots 2 & 3; 7 Riley Rd - Privilege fee assessments were discussed.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Sue B.
To move forward with the privilege fees on Lots 2 and 3, 0 Sunnyhill Road and for 7 Riley Road
Discussion: For clarification, the privilege fee assessed is in the amount of $11,551.47
• Vote: Unanimous
New Development, 274 Prospect St. - The Commission briefly discussed the new development and privilege fees.
Sewer Commission Projects update - Grease Traps - An updated spreadsheet of restaurants and their compliance was
reviewed. The Commission discussed consequences for non-compliance. I/l remediation - Verifying that a list of items have
been completed will be followed up on. Private Extension process - There is no update. Funding Sources for Public
Projects/Individuals - The Commission discussed finding available funding to help people with betterment fees through loans.
Rural Development in Holden was discussed as a possible contact. Flow Rate/Metering - Mike N. went on a tour with Flow
assessment and discussed issues found with the Commission. It was also discussed tracking water in and sewer out to show
reduction in I/l. Barb L. and Mike N. will work together on a database
Q1 FY16 Commitment - The Q1 Commitment is $184,701.75 and was signed off on by the Commission.
SWSS-Pump station reports - The reports were reviewed and there were no issues.
Permit to Connect - There is one permit to connect.
Business Manager report - There were two invoices that the Commission reviewed and signed off on. The website has been
updated with information regarding quarterly bills and the Flygt into session. The Commission discussed rescheduling next
meeting to September 15'h and discussion followed on future agenda items.
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activities
September 15, 2015 - DPW 7pm Regular Meeting
Motion: Troy
To adjourn at 9:00
Second: Mike N.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully Submitted,
mil Leite
nily Lehto
