===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Issue was that that period was paid already, and doesn't see why he needs to. Carl asked about the policy and if
he'd seen it. Carl noted that if the water is turned off, then we can do something. Mr. Emma asked the
commission to contirm that we still bill even it there is no usage? He closed on the 1gm, and moved in at the
end of the month. Carl restated the policy and the minimum charge. Only if the meter is off and there is no flow
is the only time there is no bill. Troy noted on new accounts that it is also the administrative time to be
considered. Mr. Emma proposed to have his payment of the invoice to be applied to the next bill. Dave
questioned the process, when both owners had 0 usage. Carl said to credit the bill, policy would have to be
changed. Troy again pointed out how much time is involved in billing, final read invoices, account set-up, meter
#s, owner info and that the minimum charge covers that time. Mike noted that the previous owner was billed
through 9/11, and Mr. Emma through 9/30, and minimum charges apply. Mr. Emma summed it up saying he
didn't agree, but respects the Commission's time and left the meeting. Troy said that no vote was needed,
unless they were to change policy. Discussion continued that even if an owner is in California and has 0 usage,
would we credit? No, because the meter is on. Same scenario here: meter on, minimum charge.
Carl asked
the representative of the Drumm Privilege Fee Abatement Request to come in to the meeting. Susan Drumm
came in and she owns the property with her brother Bill Drumm, who had sent a letter expressing his
disappointment at the Commission's ruling. She ran through the chronology of events starting in 2008 when
they were bettered for a total of 5 units. They tried to develop 5 lots and were told by Szoc Surveying that they
couldn't do this with the frontage and wetland issues. They advised the building inspector in February of 2010
and Susan added that part of the land is in chapter. She stated that they have been trying to meet the rules.
They have now submitted a plan for 4 lots to the Planning Board, 2 of which have been sold, and the other two
are on agreement. They are asking for an abatement for Lot 5. They paid cash for the betterments and are just
asking for a refund and not even asking for interest. At this point Troy advised the Commission against getting
in to too much of a discussion as this may go to litigation. He stated that per Mass General Law we are
prohibited from processing an abatement
and that it must through the appeals process. Susan added that on
Jan 7, 2010, they were sent a notice of privilege fee assessment, that references the privilege fee notice, and 2
letters from the zoning officer, but she stated that they never received the privilege fee notice or the 2 letters.
Barb made her a copy of the notice, and will mail her the 2 letters. Troy noted that since this could go to
litigation, communication should be restricted to the party that submitted the request. Barb will send copies of the
2 letters to Bill Drumm. Susan left the meeting.
FY16 budget - Barb handed out FY16 draft (copy of rev2-meeting discussion file) and the YTD FY15. Carl
started the discussion on revenues. We are assuming of the 80 properties in the sewer project, that 30% will
connect. That means 24 new accounts, which is a 5% increase overall. This is the number for the whole town
that we'll use for FY16 budgeting as far as new connections just to keep it simple. Discussion followed about
not increasing revenues but decreasing expenses, as Carl would like to have a positive to put toward the
retained earnings. Dave thought that infrastructure should be increased from $30,000. Discussion turned to
outsourcing and SWSS and parts for the repairs. Carl introduced the thought of having the grease trap program
outsourced and funded by the permit fees & fines. Troy wanted clarification that infrastructure is for any parts
outside the outsource contract. All present agreed that Infrastructure cost should not be reduced. Dave made
the case for breaking out the items covered by Infrastructure and making sure generator repair is included next
year. Dave stated that just like we increase infrastructure to $40,000, we need to increase Outsourcing as it may
not work out with SWSS, so we should increase as a contingency. Troy asked Jack if he was happy with SWSS,
and Jack stated their behavior was wrong at the last meeting, but he has no issue with the work they are doing.
The Outsource for SWSS was bumped by 2.5% as Deb already agreed, but after FY16, we don't know. Mike
stated he accepts outsourcing. Carl proposed that we add in the delta of the Weston & Sampson bid amount of
===PAGE 2===
ask SWSS for quotes to do remaining stations, once this question is resolved. Carl noted if these were done
quickly, they d all be online for 2016. We need to account for this in the telephone expense line. Barb will get her
answer on whether the phone line can be removed with SCADA, and if so, the expense is a wash. Dave asked
about going direct and Jack stated in no uncertain terms that SWSS is our agent for the work relating to the
pump stations.
Under Engineering, Jack asked that each monetary amount should be spelled out under the
heading, not in the descriptions making it easier to understand. Carl reviewed that we should increase
infrastructure to $41,000, outsourcing add about $25,000, level fund legal at $9000. The outsourcing line will
have Weston & Sampson's RFP price, plus 5%, and $7500 for the generator. All present agreed that Electricity
needed to go up by 30%. Discussion occurred on the aggregate not being on all stations, and whether we should
consider solar power for the 10 stations. We'll increase Telephone with the potential for 7 more stations with
SCADA and the associated wireless monthly cost of $36. Mike would like the diesel cost bumped up in case
there is an extended outage and there was a discussion about that type of outage and how it would be handled.
Commission determined that fuel should be level-funded.
Troy noted that grease trap mailing is mentioned
and reminded him that since it hasn't gone out yet, we will need to re-look at fines. In September, fining back to
start of fiscal year was reasonable but now it wouldn't be fair. Carl agreed and wants it added to next agenda.
On Leominster usage, 5% increases should be based on the Fy15 budget amount. Discussion turned again to
the basis of an operating budget and Car's preference to put some away for capital expenditures. We don't
necessarily need a balanced budget with the extra going to retained earnings. Carl asked Jack about expenses
he foresees, should we have $100,000 available, and what he would see it being used for. Do we build the
business or reduce costs? Jack said he'd like to think on the question before answering. Dave brought up the
Whalom area issues and getting them resolved. Commission discussed the Board of Health DHCD fund,
whether the monies still exist and using it as a fund for homeowners in need. Bob E., who had joined the
meeting, said he would look into it, that unless it was voted on at town meeting, the monies are still there. Dave
stated that anything we do positive for the community comes back to you. Also, another item to consider is the I/l
work so that if Leominster has us switch to meter-based billings, we'l be prepared. Jack mentioned again
running the sewer to the old primary school, which would improve the land's value. Bob mentioned VFD's for
other pump stations. Commission discussed the potential $24,000 betterment and how we can get it reduced for
the residents, and future connections that will have that as the basis for assessing privilege fees. Lancaster
Ave. is next on the agenda. Discussion of the Lancaster Ave. extension and the warranty reserve that needs to
now be released after the warranty year is passed. Jack wished it could go to the residents but it can't. Carl
stated that the amount is about $3600. Troy asked if there is anything that could go wrong, and could the money
be used to make it right? Jack noted that we held the money for a year in case there was a problem with the line.
There were issues in April not addressed, but he is tired of fighting about it for $3600. Carl stated it was a
commitment we made to Elliott. Troy proposed taking the money to make the town whole with identified issues.
Carl agreed but stated this was not a clean scope of work, and without that, we don't have much to stand on.
Carl asked for a motion on Elliott's request to return $3622.50. Troy made the motion that we give back
the money and move on. Carl asked for a second. Mike stated, under the circumstances, he'll second.
Vote taken was unanimous. Carl stated that in the policy discussion, there should be a formal sign-off process,
like the Dan Proctor project. Bob E. stated that the Board of Selectmen had discussed requiring a bond and
that the Town should have specifications that contractors should be held to, that this is a known issue in the
Town with other projects, not just sewer. Pratt St/Lakeview Ave SRF project- Barb noted that we had
received the Project Acceptance Certificate with the limit based on certificate of title, but Wright Pierce was
happy that it had been received. Barb noted that the Easements went out on January gin, and only 1 return
receipt received so far, on the Brogna property. Privately funded Extension process - Carl noted Troy's
===PAGE 3===
GIVE CIEN
the penn
was issued 12/4/13 with the connection fee based on 7 bedrooms. The owner questioned bedroom count at the
time, and was referred to the Board of Assessors (BOA) who determines the number of bedrooms that the
Sewer office uses to calculate the connection fee. The house was connected to sewer 12/11/13 and quickly
sold on 12/17; Barb received a confirmation of 6 bedrooms from the BOA after inspection on 3/7/14. Marcia
Boudreau (trustee for Szocik Realty Trust), had recently inquired as to the credit on 12/10/14. The credit for the 7
bedroom amounts to $770. Troy made the motion to credit 65 Fairview Rd. $770.00, pursuant to the
Board of Assessor's assessment. Dave seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Carl said that Privilege
to assess the Privilege fee, the resident was sent the notice, and the resident has responded that he wants it
apportioned on the tax bill, so a Sewer Assessment Statement has been done to record a lien at the Registry
which the Sewer Commission needs to sign. The Commission signed the Statement and Carl will bring it to the
Clerk's office for notarization. As for Minutes approval, discussion occurred with Bob E's input, that a
majority of the Commission is required to approve the minutes, and not all members present at the specific
meeting need to be the ones to vote on the minutes. They can be approved based on Mike & Dave's word that
the minutes represent what occurred. Dave made the motion to accept the minutes of 10/28/14, Mike
seconded, and vote was unanimous based on their recommendation to approve. For the minutes of
11/18, Dave made the motion to accept minutes, Troy seconded, and the vote taken was unanimous to
approve the minutes of 11/18/14. For the minutes of 12/9, Troy made the motion to accept, Dave
seconded, the vote taken was unanimous to approve the minutes of 12/9/14.
Business Manager Report- Invoices - Barb had 3 invoices which were approved. There were 2 Permits to
connect - 12 Joslin St. and 89 Leominster Rd., and SCADA on Leominster Rd. is due to be installed by the end
of the month. Regarding the SWSS Pump station reports, Mike stated that he had done the pump station tour
on 1/12, and that it was very worthwhile. The Commission discussed the flows of Leominster Rd. versus Dana
St.. Carl noted that they are still shoveling sand from Graham St station. Carl added that he talked to Jack
about the 37 Graham disconnection and that Mark Flagg hopes to do the work fairly quickly. UPCOMING
MEETING - January 27, 2015, Town Hall. Commissioners Comments -Dave brought up the article that was in
the Sentinel today where the Sewer Commission made the decision to reduce the fees, instead of the ZBA. Bob
said a simple letter to the editor, clarifying the process on 40B's and the ZBA responsibility for determining
affordability and that the Sewer Commission remains steadfast with what the charges should be, would go a long
way. Carl will do the letter and clarify on TV at the next meeting.
Carl asked if there was anything more and asked for a motion to adjourn. Troy made the motion, Mike
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous and the meeting was adjourned at 9:55pm.
Respectfully submitted,
