===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chart
Minutes of Sewer Commission Meeting on November 8, 2016, DPW, 520 Chase Rd.
Attendance: Carl Luck, Chair, John Reynolds, Vice-Chair, Joe Anderson, Clerk, Joan Pease and Rich St. Cyr,
Members. Absent: Barb Lefebvre, Business Manager
APPOINTMENTS
A&D Crossroads Hearing appointment- A&D did not attend the meeting or send any designee.
Dan Proctor, 380 Electric - Dan advised in advance that he would be unable to attend this meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Grease Traps- Ugly Omelet received our letter; they have 30 days to respond to the letter (11/30/16). Future letter
may have tighter deadlines, such as "respond with your action plan within 2 weeks". Commission discussed
creating a new work instruction to have the new Grease Trap Inspection Report Forms to show how to measure the
amount of grease in the traps. The restaurants will be responsible for getting the amount of grease in inches, and
sending it to us, and we will do the calculations. Commission also discussed the need to perform training for
restaurants to show people how to measure grease, and how to clean their traps. Joan would like to know whose
job is it to review the monthly reports and ensure they are there. The question of Barb's job description was raised
and whether it can be updated by the Commission. Action items - 1) Barb to send out letters to each restaurant
listed as "no schematic" to inform them that we NEED a copy of their schematics. 2) Jack to confirm how many
grease traps at Bangkok Hill. 3) Jack to visit restaurants listed with no floor drains and visit restaurants that the
schematic shows mop sinks goes directly to the sewer to verify information or dispute the information. 4) Carl is
going to seek legal advice to determine what action, if any, we can take on restaurants with outstanding fines and
Commission discussed SRF Betterments recently recorded at Registry and the Abatement request received for 2
Rennie St. No formal decision made while more information gathered. Pump station reports - Carl will talk to Jack
about pump station reports. Inquiry on 361 Mass Ave property- Carl will contact town counsel to determine how
to get our owed money from Highfield Village developers. Roles and Responsibilities - Commission discussed
project process, who does what, bidding, quotes etc. Commission discussed FY 17/18 Goals:
Identify and address root cause of Inflow/Outflow Issue. Barb to redistribute the communications from
Wright Pierce regarding the I&l report due to the state next year.
• Train and educate food establishment owner/operators on FOG regulations and procedures
• Investigate outsourcing of Billing
• Identify and implement five (5) key policies and procedures -
Clarify and Document Roles and Responsibilities for five (5) key processes/activities (i.e. who does
what, how often, when is it reported).
• Job descriptions - Role and responsibilities for members and managers
• Tasks, timeframes for task, and reporting frames for that task
Minutes/Invoices/Action File Issues - Minutes of 10/3/16 Joan Pease made motion to approve 10/3/16
minutes, John Reynolds seconded, passed unanimously; Minutes of 10/11/16 - John made motion to
approve 10/11/16 minutes, Joan Pease seconded-passed unanimously. Invoices- Commission had one
question on KP Law invoice. Barb to confirm the .3 hours on the invoice.
Carl asked if there was anything further. Joan asked about the possibility of getting sewer at the Woodlands and
Carl asked that Joan tell them the first step would get into the sewer serviceable area.
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn. Joe Anderson made the motion to adjourn, John Reynolds seconded.
Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was adjourned at 8:30pm
Respectfully submitted,
Joe Anders
Joe Anderson, Clerk
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 0 5 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLENN OFFICE
