===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
bylaw states that proposed changes will be presented area ormal earn at will be soned or tell se
meetings. The meeting will be advertised at least 14 days in advance. Once the hearing is closed, the final changes
will be drafted and voted on. The approved changes will be posted on the Sewer Commission's website.
Motion: John R.
Second: Sue B.
To approve the sewer bylaw article as presented on 3/8/2016
Vote was
unanimous
Grease Trap/Interceptor Program status
The workshop from March 7* was discussed. There will be one more workshop scheduled for March 15'h.
. The
Commission reviewed the revised regulations. The changes were discussed, pertaining to the due date for annual
permit fees, the fee structure, documentation, posting of CMR 248 requirements, timing for report submittal, water
temperatures, how and when measurements are taken, and that restaurants with external units will not be required to
Sal unis wilt bot be required to
submit monthly reports.
The new fees for establishments with an external grease interceptor should cover the
Commission's expense of doing inspections 6 times a year. The hearing to present the changes for both the grease
trap/Interceptor Program and the sewer bylaw article is to be scheduled for the televised meetings on March 29 and
April 26"
. Letters will be sent to the restaurants to let them know about the hearing. The hearing will be posted in the
Ledger next week and will note both the grease trap regulation and bylaw change discussion.
Compliance status/fee assessment
Donnelly's and Crossroads were both sent letters notifying them of non-compliance. Donnelly's has not paid their
annual fee and is missing one log. Letter of 3/4 was not sent certified. If they don't respond, Barb will send the notice
out certified. Crossroads contacted the Commission and it was explained that their tanks needed to be cleaned and
inspected. The owner will inform them when their tanks are scheduled to be cleaned. There was also a discussion of
weekly logs that had been submitted. There were no issues with Bootlegger's.
Administration of Grease Trap Program/SCADA
Small Water System Services (SWSS) should be sending a quote for the Grease Trap Program by the next meeting.
The Commission would also like them to justify the SCADA System and show how it saves the Town money.
Pump Stations - O & M Request for Proposal status/schedule, Weekly reports
Mike N did not have a chance to review the paperwork Barb had sent him for the O& M contract for the Pump
Stations. He stated that he will contact Dave MacDonald who had worked with him on the previous bid on the 0& M
contract. The timing was discussed. Mike said it should be completed by April 15". There were no comments on the
weekly reports.
Town Meeting Warrant Articles - Budget articles, Bylaw-Regulation changes, CWMP
The Commission discussed the warrant articles for the next town meeting. They include the bylaw change, the
stabilization fund transfer, the budget transfer to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY17 and the CWMP update.
the ay cha cv, th update.
The Sewer Commission will be asking the town to accept revisions to amend the CWMP.
Wright Pierce project updates- CWMP
There was a conference call with Wright Pierce to discuss the CWMP and issues associated with it. The potential
rerouting from Fitchburg Sewer to Leominster Sewer was discussed by the Commission. It would cost $2 million and
discussion followed as to how this would be funded.
Manhole Inspections
Wright Pierce is set to commence inspections on March 21s!.
• Barb noted that we were able to get the missing
manholes for Meadowwoods into GIS thanks to Weston & Sampson & Cartographics quick assistance.
Budget Presentation to Finance Committee
Carl reviewed the proposed FinCom presentation for 3/17. He showed the graph of the Enterprise Fund which shows
retained earnings, debt services, income from betterments and the challenge of expense over income for a limited
period. He will send a copy for the Commission Members to review once it is finalized.
Sewer Commission Projects:
Website - No update. On Rural Development, Sue B had attended a Board of Health meeting. There has been one
applicant so far for the Septic Repair Loan program. Sue noted that the Ledger may be calling Barb for more
information regarding costs to connect to sewer. SCADA - Woodard and Curran has been sent the manual. There
are now three companies: Small Water System Services, Wright Pierce and Woodard and Curran. The members
present did not think an additional vendor's quote would be necessary.
Minutes - The minutes from the February 23" regular meeting and the February 29* workshop were presented and
approved by the Commission. Emily had started work on prior minutes and Barb had sent minutes of 11/29/11 to the
===PAGE 2===
To adjourn at 9:15pm
Respectively Submitted,
Til Lat
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
Vote Unanimous
