===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
be run three times a week in
summer. Discussed cost to install irrigation meter based on John's
experience. Commission reviewed Bill adjustment policy and determined that they could credit based on
that and the promise by Mr. Grautski to install a meter. Barb advised that there requirements on the web
regarding irrigation meters. Mr. Grautski suggested that we take the non-summer months to determine
usage when figuring a credit, but the current policy is taking an average over last 4 quarters. John made a
motion to issue a credit based on the bill adjustment policy using the last 12 months usage, Joan
seconded. Amended to be contingent upon receiving signoff by plumbing inspector that irrigation meter
was installed. Vote taken was unanimous. Barb will send Ron information on the requirements for
irrigation meters to his email.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - None tonight
PUBLIC COMMENT - None tonight
CURRENT BUSINESS
Crossroads Violation: Dave McMenemy (Wind River) was present; preliminary plans were received; final
Carl said to plan on including floor drains if they are not included. Grady is the engineer; Rodenhiser is
handling installation. Turnaround time for revised plans would be no more than 2 weeks. Our next
meeting is the January 10'
". Barb read from the letter sent to Brambila on 11/22, "In order to avoid the
above action, you are requested to either provide detail plans and a timeline to correct the subject
violation and/or attend our meeting at 6:30 on the 13"h at DPW to present your plan." Joan proposed that
he has met the obligations in the letter if we receive the detailed plans tomorrow. Discussion followed that
meet on January 10, then we would re-initiate the daily fine. John made the motion that we suspend the
daily fine pending receipt and approval of the detailed plans on 12/14. Richard seconded. Carl added that
if we don't have complete, acceptable plans by the 10"h that we restart fines retroactive to the 14*.
taken on the amended motion was unanimous. Commission next discussed that the detailed plans should
reflect internal traps for the floor drains as well, and that all sinks are connected to the sewer via an
interceptor. Dave McMenemy left the meeting.
It was determined that we should send a letter out immediately, confirming tonight's vote and should
include the total of fines and when they are due. The letter also needs address the issues with floor drains
and sink connections. After discussion, it was decided that the letter should be accompanied by an
invoice showing the amount due and a due date. Joan pointed out that the current Grease Trap regulation
states that fines should be assessed every 2 weeks. All agreed this was excessive and Carl noted that it
will be put on the next Regulation review list. Commissioners reviewed the schematics to confirm
connections of sinks to the interceptor. Carl confirmed that the 3bay sink is connected to the interceptor
but the floor drains and mop sink do not. Carl will help getting a letter out to Crossroads and will add that
monthly pumping and reporting must continue.
DPW Operations:. Jack has proposals for two manhole I/I (Inflow/Infiltration) projects. The first is manhole
dishes; least expensive fix; can do up to 40 at a cost not to exceed $6K. The second I/l is camera'ing on
the lines - Leominster at Graham up to Dana - both sides of Whalom Road; it was proposed 2-3 years
ago; the cost is $48K and should be done in spring. Since we don't have the money this year, doing a
subset would be a good idea. There was discussion of having W&S come back in to go over the I/l plan.
Joan said the dynamics between Jack and Carl are affecting the efficiency of the Commission and not in
===PAGE 2===
Pet Supplies Proposal: Jack noted that there had been lots of discussions and an agreement has been
reached. Because there is no grease, floor drains are not an issue. As long as there are traps under the
sink, we should be okay. He reviewed the plans, and plumbing inspector okayed the inside. John noted
Fitchburg's concerns and the letter received from them. Jeff Murawski of Fitchburg is copied on this Letter
of Agreement. We will attach the Fitchburg letter and include it by reference in the Letter Agreement.
With the Commission vote, as long as Pet Supplies signs off on the Letter of Agreement, we will advise
the Building Dept. Carl asked for a motion to approve the Letter of Agreement and advise the Building
Department that the Sewer Commission approves of the project, contingent upon Pet Supplies signing
the Letter of Agreement, incorporating Fitchburg's concerns. Richard so moved, John seconded. Vote
taken was unanimous.
Discussion turned to the Asian Imperial Restaurant's last pumping record and its excessive percentage of
grease reported.
They have violated the Grease Trap Regulations, p. 5 of Appendix C of the Sewer Use
Regs, stating that Food Service Establishments must pump a minimum of every 6 months or if
percentage of grease is greater than 25%. Their reported grease was greater than 40%. They will need to
pump out with greater frequency. Last pump-out was 6/24/16 and this one was 12/6. Commission will
send a letter, requiring Asian pump out in 3 months, or by March 6, 2017, and they must submit the report
within 30 days so the levels can be evaluated at that time. Letter should remind them that the DPW needs
48 hours' notice.
Kabobelicious: No payments received. The BOS(Board of Selectmen) issued her a liquor license and
renewed her victualler's license pending the outcome of the BOS hearing on 12/27. Barb will send the
BOS a copy of the letter and copy of the email. We may not be able to withhold her permit since it is not a
violation to not pay fines. Commissioners were all in agreement that because she did not pay on time, the
20% discount for on-time payments goes away.
Progressive Discipline Action Policy: Joan provided a handout that incorporated information from the last
meeting, adding page or citations from the documents. After reading the documentation further, there was
a discussion about issuing warnings that is not included in the Regulations. It only states that there will be
an immediate $50 fee for any violation. The warning/form letters were discussed. Warning letters need to
be sent to Conrad's & Donnelly's.
At the Ugly Omelet, a pumpout occurred 12/6 satisfying the last
request. Jack and Mr. Bursch met with the pumper at cleanout to inspect. Per Rich Bursch, Seth
undertaking the repair of broken pipe.
Highfield Village: Commission approved of the notice provided by counsel. John made the motion to send
the bill to Highfield Village to call in their monies due; seconded by John; vote taken was unanimous.
SRF Betterments Abatement Request: Tabled to the next meeting.
Minutes Clerk: Joan made the motion that we hire the minutes clerk as contractor; John seconded.
Discussion followed regarding interim Town Manager and Payroll's preference to hire an employee, and
he town votina adainst us hirina someone a few years ago. The town and Finance Committee are
adamant about not adding head count to the town. Barb read a couple excerpts of emails from Adam,
the main jist being to just process this hire as an employee, and that there is no risk for the Town to do
so. Carl is against adding to headcount and Commission discussed the contractor versus employee. John
noted his preference for contractor but that since Kerry (previous Town Manager) was in favor of hiring as
employee, then we should move forward with that option, to get someone in quickly and get them going.
Joan noted that 2 of 3 town managers were in favor (Kerry and Adam). Discussion followed on what
happens on letting someone go but Joan pointed out that that was not the Commission's issue.
asked for a vote on the motion on the table to contract the person to record minutes. Vote was 1 for
===PAGE 3===
weeig was dujaileu
at 9:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
MRick bal
Melanie Rich, Minutes Clerk
