===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 1/12/16 Sewer Commission workshop and meeting - DW conference room 520 Chase Rd.
Attendees: Chair, Carl Luck, Members- Sue Bunish, Mike Nault, John Reynolds, Troy Daniels; Business Manager,
Barb Lefebvre. Minutes clerk, Emily Lehto
Called to order at 6:02 by Carl Luck
Workshop - Grease Trap Inspections -Carl L. and Small Water Systems Services, L.L.C. (SWSS) inspected the
external grease traps of Bootlegger's, Hannaford's, The Ugly Omelet and Sean Patrick's. The inside was not
inspected as the interceptor outside is most important. The discussion went on to the educational process with the
people who do inspections. It was noted that that cannot happen until rules have been established. Troy D. asked if
anything does not make sense and what is reasonable. Carl stated that some reliable data needs to be established
after a period of doing inspections at specific businesses. Based on that information, a cleaning schedule can be
implemented every two (or more) months. If the owner feels this is too often, they may have their grease traps
inspected more often to modify schedule. Discussion then turned to Sean Patrick's. John mentioned that the
pumper's were not doing their job as there is sediment at the bottom of the tank. Troy noted that it is a low usage
season and there is a difference between that and a bad pump job. John R. stated that it was in good shape 3
months ago. What and who licenses pumper's was briefly discussed. Troy stated that if the pumper's don't do a good
job than they shouldn't be on recommended list. Carl said that they should be encouraged to try a new company.
Barb mentioned that the Sewer Commission does not have a recommended list of pumper's. License Haulers are
licensed through the Board of Health and they have a list of those with licenses. It is Municipal Policy not to
recommend one over the other. Troy agrees but stated that there should be some communication with the Board of
Health if a License Hauler consistently does not meet standards. John R. feels that Sean Patrick's should want the
job done right. Massachusetts has a set of standards they must follow. Mike feels this is opening a can of worms.
Some people do a better job than others. It is the customer's due diligence. We can make them aware and it was
suggested that owners visually inspect their tanks. Sue says Small Waters should inspect and educate business
owners. Carl stated that Small Waters not at workshop because the inspections were finished at 3:30 pm and it was
a long time to wait. They do not have to be present to discuss. Sue suggests letting them know what the expectations
are and asking how they would like to proceed. Mike noted that there should be supervision by someone. They are
more likely to do a better job.
John noted that Sean Patrick's is a good example of one with sludge on the bottom. There was discussion about
possible damage to the system and concluded that without input from SWSS this would be unknown. Mike suggested
having SWSS present for one inspection a year. Carl said it was possible to start this with the next pumping.
John and Carl discussed Hannaford's and their concerns that it was recently pumped. Al showed him a dark line
while they were there and it was suggested that it had pumped that morning John suggested that next time there be
no announcement about an inspection and that Hannaford be followed up on with a surprise inspection. Carl
brought discussion back to regulations and the fact that people are not being compliant. They need to be informed of
this. Discussion went on to how often external tanks should be inspected. Mike suggested telling restaurants that
they need to have 4 pumps a year to be in good standing. Also, to prove this have them show a contract. Troy stated
that this does not take peaks into consideration.
Sue mentioned that Leominster Water allows dumping floor cleaners down floor drains. This gets into the system.
Carl suggested inspections every 6 months. Sue mentions that people need to be made aware that they can apply
for a less stringent schedule. Troy feels that regulations cannot be made for each individual place. Inspections must
be enforced. Carl and Troy discussed tank percentages and Carl stated that this could be used to level the playing
field. After a valid inspection, he feels it is absolutely necessary that the hauler report the amount of grease and
record the percentage on the new form. This should be enforced with the regulation. John mentioned that it needs to
be determined that everyone knows how to do the inspections and that a better understanding of what's seen and not
what told is needed. Carl agreed that businesses need to be educated further on this but the regulations are not in
place yet. John stated regulations should be left as is for now and that SWSS should be used to help inspect. Carl
stated that current regulations will be enforced and to add the current log requirement for percentages of external
interceptors and to internal. The commission was in agreement. Troy stated that anyone who reports less than 25%
should be encouraged to apply for the waiver. Sue added that clarification is needed for people who request
===PAGE 2===
hearings about fines that they are not necessarily going to be waived. Troy interjected that they are fees and not fines
and that the letter sent already states that. Ended at 7:08pm
Regular Meeting
APPOINTMENTS
7pm Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham -835 Leominster Rd- Leominster Sewer direct connect request -
Jamie introduced himself and Kevin Hill from W&B. Kevin Hill is the developer on the project located across from
Cherry Hill. The soil is very poor and would not perc. Ross Associates performed the tests. Jamie handed out a map
of the site where 5-6 single family homes are to be built. He stated that they can't do septic on the property due to
poor soil. The property is not near the Lunenburg sewer but it is close enough to Leominster's to connect. He is
unsure of the process to do this. Leominster had recommended that they come here first. Carl says it is a matter of
the commission saying yes but that Leominster has said no in the past to this request. Leominster's okay is needed
and it cannot affect any agreements that Lunenburg has with Leominster. There is also a water issue with the
property and they must prove that nowhere on the property can there be a septic system. Jaime stated that water for
the homes will come from wells. Carl stated that they must remain neutral about development. Leominster is
concerned about liens to collect taxes from the homes. Jamie stated that he will come back with the testing results
and a letter from Leominster. Troy asked if there would be a fee for reduced capacity or any implications. They
should share in the cost of capacity if that is the case. Carl asked that the letter from Leominster address the issue of
capacity and that there would be no implications to agreements held with Leominster. Carl asked if any neighboring
properties had septic and Jamie brought up one that had a septic fail. Carl would like alternative technologies to be
investigated and Jaime was confident that that would not work either for the property. Troy confirmed that there is no
building onsite. Carl restated to Jamie that we need a map with all the test spots shown. Jamie asked about the Unitil
project and when he should come before the Commission. Carl said the sooner the better and it was confirmed that
Jamie will be on the next agenda which is 1/26.
Budget - YTD FY16-Carl first wanted to look at the year-to-date for FY16 and asked for comments. Commission
discussed the l/l amount of $15,000. It was noted that we are doing well, numbers look good. As for FY17, Barb
does not have a proposed budget yet, but will have it for the next meeting. We are on a different schedule that other
Town Departments as an Enterprise Fund. The other department's budgets are due 1/15. Discussion followed on
considerations for determining the budget and determined that these areas will need review to determine estimates
for FY 17- Connections, Purchase of service, Betterment, Outsourcing, Betterments on the new projects. Other lines
can generally just be shifted over from FY16. In the discussion regarding new connections, the project at 274
Prospect was brought up and Carl asked Barb to check the status on the project and how many units are slated for
construction. Barb advised that January will be taken up with both the budget and Q3 billing.
42 Highland Ave acceptance and return of deposit - Barb noted that she was awaiting Jack's approval but was
hoping that, as we had done before, the Commission could take the vote tonight and if it is Jack's recommendation
that we release the $2400 that she will communicate with Carl and get his approval to return the funds. Troy wants to
be sure we get something in writing from Jack. Barb confirmed with Troy that an email from Jack would suffice. Troy
made the motion to approve the return of deposit which is a bond on 42 Highland Ave. to Dan Proctor
subject to Jack's written recommendation to Barb. Mike seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
Hollis Hills
- Carl reviewed that they have met with the Board of Selectmen and ZBA in joint session and the key points are that
the court case is scheduled for 2/2 and that we should hear the result within 30-90 days. They did speak with the
Brogna's and there is to be no discussion regarding settlement until they learn the court case ruling. Troy restated
that it is our understanding that the present case before court is based solely on sewer and Carl agreed.
Pratt/Lakeview Project status - Carl asked whether we'd received anything further on the Budget status from
Wright Pierce and Barb produced an email received at 4:30 today which Carl reviewed for the Commission. Barb will
send the email out to the Commission. Matt (from WP) had also given some betterment estimates for the SRF
project. On Bond closure - Barb stated that the bond will be closed in February 2016. Carl wanted to start the
discussion on Betterment calculations because our bills may hit before the betterment revenue starts coming in. We
pretty much know the cost but divided among how many and are there future privilege fees to take into
consideration? Weston & Sampson did that job for the first sewer project and made the recommendation (single
families, two-families, sub-dividable lots) and it should be pretty straight forward, but it may be beneficial for getting a
===PAGE 3===
professional opinion. Sue pointed out the property on West St. and his possible subdivision. Carl noted that the first
step is to ask Weston & Sampson for a quote, providing the area to be analyzed. There was a brief discussion on
charging multiple betterments and in what scenario. Pleasantview-Barb noted that CJP was onsite 1/11 for
mandrel testing and that we are awaiting the substantial completion request from CJP - however Bill Irwin is on
vacation. Barb would like to have it ready to move forward once that is received and approved as we have one
permit waiting for line acceptance in order to install sewer. Carl stated that he would entertain a motion to
authorize Jack Rodriquenz and Carl to approve substantial completion once Wright Pierce has reviewed and
approved. Mike made the motion, Troy seconded. No discussion. Sue recused herself from the vote. Vote
taken - 4 in favor, 1 abstention. Town Codification update (no) - Carl reviewed the codification process that the
Town is going through. Kerry had forwarded on legal's recommendation for the Sewer Commission. We do not have
to respond since the result was the recommendation that to not include the full Regulation, but include reference to
the document only. They did come back with some comments on our bylaws which we can take a look at. Barb will
send out the package to the Commission with her notes and backup that we can review at the next meeting. Private
Extension - Barb noted that she had sent off the latest version of the private extension regulation to counsel with the
surety bond question and that he was reviewing the entire document since he had not seen it previously. Carl
authorized Troy to work with Jeff Blake directly, but Troy noted that he would defer to whatever town counsel's
recommendations were. Barb will send Jeff's email to Troy. Full Commission will review the final version at the 1/26
meeting. Wright Pierce - Barb noted the House Bill H3654 information that Carl had forwarded on to Wright
Pierce. Per Carl, he just learned that it has passed the House and Senate and is on the Governor's desk for
approval- allowing betterments to be spread over 30 years, instead of 20 and no requirement to add 2% to the cost.
This may go into effect before our Pratt/Lakeview betterments need to be assessed and we want to find out if we can
qualify. Barb will check with Wright Pierce. 357 Electric Ave update -Peer Review will be on the 1/26 agenda per
Jamie's request earlier. Carl stated that he has been through three planning sessions with the Planning Board &
ConsCom and we may want to consider bringing in our own peer reviewer. On our next to-do list should be floor
drains which were not addressed. Barb noted that they do not currently exist in our Regulations and a peer reviewing
engineer is tasked to ensure a project abides by the regulations in place. Carl added that we should always try to
have the Peer reviewing engineer come in to discuss the project directly with the Commission. Barb asked if we
wanted to push out Jamie's appointment and have Graves come in instead on 1/26. Carl said to leave it as is.
Highfield Village -Barb noted that per the Planning Board, the hearing was continued to 2/8 so there are no updates
on the project. Carl stated that he had no update on legal's input regarding charging the developers a privilege fee.
His action was to draft a statement to legal to contain the work which he hasn't done. Troy noted that he had an email
regarding the Sewer Allocation Agreement from 11/13. Barb also has it and can forward it to Carl so he can get it to
counsel. Website - Barb's only suggestion at this time is to add information about the betterment since she has
already received one email of interested residents wondering when they would see the betterment hit their
taxes. Discussion followed that we could state that the amount is not yet known, but that the betterment will not
appear on the tax bills until December 2016. Barb will send a draft to Carl to review first. Sue also noted that we
could get the septic repair info online when we have more info. Carl asked for any Commissioner comments, public
comment? Bob Ebersole, Selectman, who had just joined the meeting noted that the Selectmen are looking at the
pavement management plan and want to confer with the Sewer Commission and Water District whether there were
projects that they know of that may involve paving and to advise the BOS to take those into consideration when
coming up with the plan.
Troy made the motion to adjourn, Mike seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting was adjourned at
8:49pm.
Respectfully submitted,
wil ferto
Emily Lehto
, Minutes Assistant
