===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 6/28/2016 Sewer Commission meeting, 17 Main St Town Hall. Attendees: Chair, Carl Luck, Members-
Sue Bunish, John Reynolds Business Manager, Barb Lefebvre. Guests - David Brambila and Dave McMenemy
Called to Order at 7:35pm
Announcements
There are two vacancies on the Sewer Commission.
Grease Trap Program
A and D Crossroads Non-Compliance - David Brambila (proprietor) and Dave McMenemy (Wind River) were both present.
Schematics have been received but no formal action plan. Issues with the external interceptor were reviewed and new problems
discovered by Wind River discussed. A formal plan will be sent to the Commission which will stop the daily fees. Small Water
Systems Grease Trap/Interceptor Proposal - An email received from Small Water System Services was reviewed. All
previous concerns and questions were addressed. They will resubmit a proposal based on a Time and Materials Contract.
Interceptor Inspections - The scheduled interceptor inspections were discussed and the Commission will clarify which ones
need to be done. Annual Permits - Sixteen out of twenty have been received. Those not received were discussed. Twin City
Baptist Waiver Request - Gary Wiliams will sign and drop off the permit.
Pump Stations
Contract for FY17 Operations & Maintenance award - A letter, from Small Water, with clarifications for concerns raised was
reviewed. The Commission discussed some issues that they would still like Small Water to address. A new contract that includes
the clarifications will be requested.
Motion: John R.
Second: Sue B.
To accept the bid of 5/18/2016 with the amendment dated 6/28/2016
Vote: Unanimous
Weekly reports - The weekly reports were reviewed by the Commission and there was discussion on the level of
documentation. Issues with Leominster Road and Mass Ave 1 were examined.
SRF Sewer Extension Project - There was discussion on the process, timing and costs to have paving compieted The
Commission also discussed the betterments that Weston and Sampson will do.
Special Town Meeting August 8, 2016 - The Sewer Commission has nothing on the warrant.
Minutes File Issues - The minutes and what should be included was reviewed.
Business Manager Report /Action- Permits to Connect - There are two permits to connect. Manhole Inspections Meeting
- Wright Pierce provided possible days for a meeting and this was discussed.
New SRF PEF deadline - There was a discussion on potential work. The Woodlands was discussed and their potential interest
Volunteer BBQ - The BBQ will be July 26t at the Eagle House
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activites
July 5, 2016 Joint BOS-Sewer Commission meeting, Town Hall - 7pm Joseph Anderson appointment
July 12, 2016 Regular Sewer Commission meeting, DP0057
Motion: Sue B.
To adjourn at 8:44pm
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully Submitted,
Emilsehto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
