===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
that there is currently no formal process for regulation changes and this will allow for more visibility. It will
improve public awareness of regulation changes and encourage participation. A hearing will be held over
two televised meetings to discuss proposed changes. Both televised meetings will be advertised at least five
days prior in the local newspaper. Once the hearing is closed the Commission will deliberate and draft the
final regulation. Once the changes are approved, a notice of change will be published in the newspaper. The
new regulation will take effect at the time of publication.
Second Hearing - Changes to the Grease Trap Regulations
The changes to the Grease Trap Regulations were presented. Their purpose is to keep grease out of the
system and prevent damage. The Commission has put a lot of energy into achieving full compliance but has
been unable to achieve this. After reviewing the regulations, some were found to be unclear and inconsistent
with state regulations. Carl reviewed what the Commission has done to date such as: posted agenda items,
contracting with Small Water System Services, posting a hearing notice and sending letters to all current
grease trap users. The changes presented pertain to the due date for annual permit fees, the fee structure,
documentation, posting of CMR 248 requirements, timing for report submittal, water temperatures, how and
when measurements are taken, and that restaurants with external units will not be required to submit
monthly reports.
The Town Caucus was held on March 14". Carl Luck and John Reynolds are both on the ballot for 3 year
terms. There are two openings for the Commission: a one year term and a two year term.
The warrants the Sewer Commission has for the Town Meeting were reviewed. There are three budget
articles: Transfer from Enterprise Fund, Transfer to Capacity Account and Creation of Inflow/Infiltration
Stabilization account. There is also the Bylaw Change and the CWMP update.
Current Business
Pratt/Lakeview/Pleasantview SRF Project - These three betterment areas have been reported as
substantially completed. There are 9 to 11 residents already connected. One resident from the betterment
has brought up concerns with the Selectmen's idea for a paving program. She felt that it would be unfair if
that debt exclusion went through. Carl gave some background on this. It was previously believed that there
Carl gave some
would not be enough money in the Pavement Management Program to repave local roads. Many residents
paid to have their roads repaired. It now appears that there will be money to repave local roads and there is
concern about having to pay twice. Her concerns are currently being investigated with support from the
Sewer Commission and the DPW director.
36 Summer Street - There is a proposed change to mixed use that the Planning Board is reviewing. It has
not been brought to the Commission yet but Mike N. has reviewed it. The current business would like to add
two apartments and assuming it is already on the line, the Sewer Commission only needs to accept the
addition of residential.
years. In addition to maintenance of the pump stations, maintenance of generators and the grease trap
program are being added to the contract. The Weekly Reports appear fine. Dana Street had a check valve
issue and Mass Ave had an issue with a dialer. Both have been resolved.
Minutes - Carl wants to go back to approving the minutes rather than initialing as it will be easier. The
minutes from November 29, 2011 were discussed. Carl L. was absent from the meeting and no current
members were on the commission then. Carl noted that the minutes he reviewed were consistent with what
happened before and after.
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Sue B
To approve the minutes from 11-29-2011, although not present it has been reviewed
Vote was unanimous
===PAGE 2===
new applicants. Loans are available to those who qualify for 20 years at 2% interest.
Website - The website has been updated with the Grease Trap Regulations and the Bylaw.
The next regular sewer commission meeting will be on April12th at the DPW. There will also be a
presentation of Town Meeting articles to the Board of Selectmen on April 19" at Town Hall. The next public
Town Hall The Town Meeting leon a at unenge in update will be on april 26 at
at Lunenburg High School
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn at 8:18pm
Second - Sue B
Vote was unanimous
Respectfully Submitted
milLerto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistan
