===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
discuss what has been done so tar with betterments. He nandea out an outline or aiscussion items and
Barb L. handed out a summary sheet of project costs. The discussion began with his review of the
confirmed properties. Next, the conversation went to costs that still need to be rectified and the costs still
left to project. What is included in total costs was reviewed and discussed. There was a question on Town
administrative costs which Barb L. will contact Wright Pierce about. The Commission discussed whether
the Town charges administrative costs to the Commission every year. Also, discussed was the need to
determine the interest rate to be charged and what can be charged per the new betterment law. Next, a
spreadsheet of potential assessments was reviewed and any lots with notes were discussed. Privilege
fees for future expansion were also discussed by the Commission. The consensus was 3 privilege fees
but the vote will wait until John R., who had to leave at 7:30pm, is present. The conversation then went to
whether to assess one betterment or two (Pratt and Pleasantview assessed separately). The Commission
discussed and the consensus was to charge one.
Motion: Joan P.
To charge both betterment projects as one betterment
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
There was a question on who signs the order assessing betterments, the Board of Selectmen or the
Sewer Commission. Barb L. will check with Counsel. The next issue discussed was whether to record first
or issue betterment assessments first and the benefits/drawbacks of both. The Commission discussed the
process of assessing, liening and then releasing a lien. It was determined that a better understanding of
the process and timing of a lien release is needed. Barb L. will look into the process. There was also
discussion of the municipal modernization law and whether it has changed the 30 days to pay in full
Steve P. will get clarification on payments received after the 30 days. He will also update his spreadsheet
of potential assessments to reflect the edits that were discussed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Grease Trap issues
A&D Crossroads - There has still been no response. The Commission discussed that a schematic
shows a plumbing violation where the floor drains are not connected to the sewer.
Kabobelicious - A new letter is going to be sent with changed wording to the owner and both local and
regional Boards of Health. The violation is being turned over to the Board of Health and the $25/day fine
will continue to accrue. Carl L. will also call the Board of Health.
Bootleggers - There is currently a crack in the tack. A letter has been sent out and Jack R. has been on
site. The owner plans on replacing the tank.
Motion - Joe A.
To adjourn at 8:21pm
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
UPCOMING SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES
August 30, 2016 Regular meeting, Town Hall
Respectfully submitted,
chil Lento
Emily Lefto, Minutes Assistant
