===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 1/26/16 Sewer Commission workshop/meeting - Town Hall, 2nd floor meeting room.
Attendees: Chair, Cari Luck, Members- Mike Nault, John Reynolds; Business Manager, Barb Lefebvre. Minutes clerk, Emily Lehto.
Absent - Sue Bunish
Guests = Deb Trumbull, Heather Montalvo - SWSS, Bob Ebersole, BOS liaison
FOG workshop with Small Water Systems Services -Carl opened the meeting at 6:03pm. Barb handed out Original Scope of Work
and Contract and all present reviewed. Debbie and Heather from Small Water Systems Services (SWSS) arrived at 6:10pm. Carl stated
the plan to recap external interceptor inspections of January 12th and go over scope of work. Bootlegger's was discussed first. It was
mentioned that the outside grease trap needs to be raised by 11 inches to 23 inches. Carl interjected that Al later had said he was
incorrect about that. The dishwasher is not hooked up to the inside interceptor which is against regulation and the owner also reported
that they use enzymes which they are first supposed to get permission from the Sewer Commission. The log was also not onsite which is
very important because it needs to be updated and maintained. Carl stated that we need to check what the state plumbing code states
about dishwashers being connected to see if the Lunenburg regulation needs to be changed. John mentioned that high temp
dishwashers produce more grease. Hannaford's was discussed next. They have a 1,500 gallon tank with a 4 inch grease layer and 4
internal that are cleaned weekly by Stewart's Septic. There were no issues. The discussion moved to Sean Patrick's. There is a new
addition with a sewer connection and all grease is going into one trap. There was lots of sludge and sand present. It was suggested that
next time someone be present when it is cleaned to make sure it is done properly. The dishwasher was also connected to the sinks. One
internal trap that they opened wasn't being properly cleaned. The owners didn't understand that the first part needed to be cleaned
defeating their good habits. Carl brought up the need to train people who clean their own internal traps. Bootlegger's and Hannaford's
have professionals do theirs but no one else does. Heather agreed that training is needed for that. The Ugly Omelet was then
discussed. This site needs a lot of help. They are dumping stuff into the sink and neither the sink nor dishwasher is connected to an
internal. It is going directly out and no one is sure where. There is also oil on the roof because the filters are not being cleaned. The
owners were not available at the time. John asked if there was a log present and Heather said there was not. Carl stated that they
needed to get the plans because some reports show that they have 2 tanks which is strange for an establishment that size. It was
agreed that this place needed to be visited again with the owners present. Barb stated that tanks were last cleaned on 11/15. Asian
Imperial was discussed last. Heather stated that there was not much to report. They were very ready with all the answers. It was
mentioned that Al was aggravated because he missed the last pumping that he wanted to be present for. Debbie stated that a lot of
times the pumper's come very early in the morning before anyone is there. Carl asked when the inspection for Dario's and Ixtapa, which
share one interceptor, will be scheduled. Debbie stated Monday or Tuesday of next week. Carl asked that they let him know so Mike,
John and himself can attend. Bob then asked if they have identification to show that they have authority to do inspections. Debbie stated
that they do and that they also have a letter of authorization. Carl asked if there were any items in the regulations that anyone would like
to discuss. Barb mentioned that the monthly inspection of the external tanks was still a question. Carl states that he has gone full circle
with this idea and has concluded that it is a dangerous activity. Debbie mentioned that they have had an employee out since July who
dropped a manhole cover on his foot. She also brought up that some people would be unable to this on their own. Mike stated that this is
unenforceable and unnecessary if it is being pumped regularly. He also agreed that it is dangerous. John agreed and then asked SWSS
if they saw anything out there that had anything of concern. Debbie stated that the first time they saw Hannaford's there was several teet
of sludge and there was a question on when the last time it had been cleaned. John mentioned that the state minimum for pumping is
every 6 months. Debbie agreed but mentioned that when money gets tight people might try to get by with only doing it once. Carl asked if
SWSS could help them verify someone's pumping record. Debbie stated to send these to them and they can verify. Carl stated that the
inspections are not enforceable. Numbers need to be provided by owners and surprise inspections used to verify these numbers. This
needs to be enforced or an alternative needs to be accepted. Bob mentioned there are various regulations from different towns. Some
places may not need to be inspected as often based on their pumping records. Carl agreed that there needed to be a better
understanding of what they are requiring. It needs to be reasonable and enforceable. Car mentioned the need to train and educate on
the 25% rule. People under the 25% rule do not have to pump their tanks every 6 months but have to inspect often. Mike stated that
there needed to be accountability and consistency in showing up. Carl mentioned that there is a second round of inspections planned
and one thing learned from the first round is that it only takes a half hour to inspect each place. They are not going to be scheduled
appointments and they will be completed next time SWSS is in town so there is no travel time. He concluded that Inspections with SWSS
should be completed every 3 months and until more is learned, restaurants will be required to pump every 6 months. Debbie stated that
their fee would be $70/hr. Carl stated that this had to remain cost neutral so the residents are not funding the restaurants. He mentioned
the possibility of requiring restaurants to have 2 different permits; one for interceptors and one for internal. Carl stated that given
reasonable cost they want to enforce a monthly inspection and asked if SWSS would be willing to do this for each Food Service
Establishment (FSE). Debbie had a proposal for a grease trap program which was reviewed and she will send copy electronically.
Discussion then moved to the Type of Services that SWSS is going to provide for Lunenburg. Drawings and maps of each FSE and
documentation of inspections needs to be sent to SWSS. Heather proposed all incoming materials regarding this be sent to them to keep
track of. She also stressed the need to educate. Bob stated that anything being sent to SWS needs to be public record and shared.
Heather stated that they will be sending quarterly reports as well. Heather mentioned that each FSE has a Binder provided by SWSS
that has all necessary forms, regulations and logs to keep handy and organized. Debbie mentioned that a follow up letter needs to be
sent to each FSE after inspection. They can send a copy to us to mail out. Carl wrapped up the workshop by stating the proposal draft
will be reviewed and regulations needed to be discussed. He asked that a report be sent of what was discussed tonight. Debbie stated
that she will send an email about scheduling the next round of inspections for Monday or Tuesday.
===PAGE 2===
Regular Meeting Called to Order 7:08pm. Carl announced, "In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access." Announcements: Troy Daniels has
resigned from the Sewer Commission effective immediately. Carl read his resignation that he received via email. Carl stated that Troy
challenged their thinking and led to better decisions made. He thanked him for his contributions to the Commission and his input will be
missed. Emily Lehto was then welcomed. This is her second meeting and she will be taking minutes and helping the Sewer Commission
get caught up on delinquent minutes and staying current. There was good news with Pleasantview Ave status. It has reached substantial
completion and almost everything is complete, including testing. The only thing left is overlay in the spring. Connections can start to be
made. After completion, the final cost will be assessed and residents can expect to see the betterments in their December 2016 bills.
Appointments: Jamie Rheault from Whitman & Bingham is seeking a Leominster Sewer direct connect to 835 Leominster Road.
He stepped forward at 7:10. Carl apologized for running late. Jamie introduced himself and stated that he is representing Kevin Hill who
is planning on building several single family homes on Leominster Road. At the last meeting the Commission had requested that Jamie
put together testing data and he had told the commission that hed reach out to Jim Gareffi of the Board of Health (BOH) which he did.
He explained to Jim that a letter was needed stating that the land was not suitable for septic. He requested to have the letter completed
in 2 weeks so it will be available for the next meeting. Jamie will also meet with Roger Brooks later in the week and will review iMA and
discuss capacity. He will let the Commission know the results of that meeting at the next meeting as well. Jamie will give all data he
currently has to the Commission for review before he is back in 2 weeks. Carl asked if they would be able to tell from the documents or
Jim Gareffi's letter that no innovative alternative would be possible. Jamie stated that he will contact Jim and have him include that. Carl
stated that it needed to be confirmed that if the BOH would not allow conventional, that it would not allow alternative either. Mike asked if
he was under this assumption because of the perc tests. Jaime said yes. Carl asked if it was possible to walk site and Jamie stated that
the applicant has agreed but he would need to contact the current owner which he will do before next meeting. John R. mentioned the
possibility of future expansion at the site. Carl ended the appointment by stating that it will be the decision of the Commission to allow or
not. The next Appointment was also with Jamie Rheault of Whitman & Bingham regarding the Unitil proposal at 357 Electric Ave.
to talk about the process of Unitil moving their facility to the old drive-in location. Carl stated that the DPW will review drawings. The peer
review has been completed and he is not sure if the Sewer Commission needs to review. It needs to be decided whether they want a
separate peer review though. The Commission stated that they wanted to know more about the floor drain where vehicles are to be
washed. Jamie noted the efficiency of Graves Engineering who had completed the peer review and his desire to have them continue.
Carl noted that he'd reviewed the Graves peer review report and noted that Mr. Walsh had deferred some comments until he has met
with the Commission. Jamie did speak with him and plans to come before the Commission. Carl stated that that is the next step, to have
the peer reviewer come in with his plans and reports and asked Barb to coordinate getting both Mr. Walsh and Jack Rodriquenz at that
meeting as well. Jamie stated for confirmation that the next step is to have the peer reviewing engineer come before the board and then
the Sewer Commission can approve the application. Jamie noted that the Commission must vote to approve any project over 330
gallons per day per our own Regulations. It was confirmed that he'd come in for that approval at the next meeting, as long as we can get
the peer reviewing engineer to come in to review project before him. Mike noted his concern with the pre-existing depth of the sewer, in
some areas of less than 1'. Jamie noted that the project can be built without moving sewer and has been told that the subject area is
encased in concrete. Jeff Walsh wants to insulate the private lines but otherwise should be all set. Carl asked for clarification exactly
where the floor drain and oil/gas separator are on the plans. Jamie came forward to show the Commission the location and specifics. Per
Jamie, it is a typical MDC trap that everyone uses.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Budget FY17 - Carl requested that Barb go through each line on the proposed budget which she did. Barb needs to follow up with
Adam Burney of the Planning Board about the timeline on 274 Prospect and whether these connections can be figured in to FY17
connection permit revenues. As for Grease Trap fee revenues, Carl reviewed the fee structure - $50 compliant, $100 partial, $250 non-
compliance and that the Commission will be focusing on these over next couple months, stepping up monitoring compliance. He
therefore encouraged everyone in the TV audience to be compliant and that if you are non-compliant, you will go up to the next step of
fees. Staying fully compliant is not an easy task but very important and the Commission will become more diligent in ensuring
compliance. Carl also noted that he did get an update on the John Fitch Highway project from Fitchburg and that our part is only a small
part of what is going on. Fitchburg can't assess our fees until the big project is done so we don't yet know what our portion is. He is in
contact with the new director in Fitchburg who told Carl that it is unlikely that we will be assessed the costs for the John Fitch
improvement in FY17 but that it is getting closer and we have to keep it in the budget to protect the Commission. Barb will talk with Jack
Rodriquenz about jetting the lines and whether we should be doing it and keeping it in the budget. Barb noted that electricity costs spike
in the winter months as there are heaters in the pump stations to keep the water and oils at operating temperatures. The Commission
would like to look into a more efficient way to heat the stations to reduce costs for winter months. On the professional meetings/ training/
subscription line, Carl noted we have money for training available. Opportunities for training were reviewed, including Mark Abramson's
Enterprise Fund training which Barb attended several years ago. Carl noted that the figures on the Highfield revenue versus expense
looks inverted. Barb remembered questioning this previously and will look into it to make sure. Flow Assessment has agreed to renew
their contract for under $10,000, so we will not have to go out for bid. Barb had spreadsheets for backup on both the indirect costs and
debt service payments that she will forward to the Commissioners. Barb will work to figure out potential assessment and 1sl payments to
be received via tax bill on the SRF betterments in December 2016 for the Betterment revenue line. 274 Prospect St Peer Review - Carl
noted that we'd received the peer review. He was not sure when the hearing was continued to with the Planning Board but does want to
schedule to have the peer review come in and discuss what he sees on the plans. Barb will invite him to come in for the 219 meeting.
===PAGE 3===
Town codification recommendations - It was discussed that we need a working session on regulations review. Highfield Village -
Carl noted that there was no new news from counsel. We were going to counsel on whether Highfield was eligible to being charged
privilege fees. Carl added that if we are to charge privilege fees, we need to get it going as soon as possible to alert the owners since
they are unlikely prepared to pay those fees. Sewer Commission Projects review - Carl noted that there are openings on the Sewer
Commission and encouraged people to give it a try. Elections are coming soon and appointments would be made by the Board of
Selectmen and the Sewer Commission to carry through until next election. Grease Traps - Sue is out sick and will update at next
meeting. Private Extension policy- Carl asked if we were ready to vote on the changes to the Private Extension regulation. Barb noted
that she'd sent the final, counsel-revised edition in the package. Not enough members had yet reviewed it, so it was postponed to the
next meeting for a vote. SCADA system - Finally received updated quote from SWSS. It was noted that it went up slightly. Carl would
like to see this cost lowered and to get another quote. It was discussed if they were saving us money in the end. Carl asked that Barb
send the quotes received for SCADA to the Commissioners for review. Debbie had stated in an email sent 1/7 that SWSS would give a
new quote for less. Barb noted that Jack R. wants to discuss this with Jimmy B. before any decisions are made. Funding Sources for
Public Projects/Individuals - Sue is driving this but Car restated that one of the activities is working with the BOH that manages a pool
of money of roughly $100k. This money is available for loans to people with failing septic systems. The rules for this are still in the
process of being figured out. Originally, it was solely used for replacing septic but now a loan is available to those who have a failing
septic and want to connect to the sewer if available. Carl believed it was a 10 year, low interest rate loan. He stated that the BOH could
be contacted with any question's regarding this and that there will be a public hearing soon. Flow Rate/Metering -Mike stated that all is
good, but that he wants to be included on the next flow meter inspection. Carl added that, with the billing cycle, we are close to being
able to do the water to flow meter comparison. Pump stations -Francis St generator - Barb noted that we'd received a quote for the
work which Jack had accepted and authorized the work to be done. No issues with the pump station reports. Business Manager Report
- CWMP-Barb stated work will start in February per a conference call with Wright Pierce and that the Annual Report is due 2/25. Barb
is looking for volunteers to help with this. She is also looking for volunteers to help stuff envelopes to send out Q3 billing next week as
no Tax Workoff volunteer has been assigned to the DPW yet. There were 4 invoices for approval. The first was the Weston & Sampson
connection fee work of $1147.50 for which Carl and Steve had exchanged emails. Carl noted that the next step is for Weston &
Sampson to meet with Jack to discuss and that it must be done quickly as the case goes before the judge on 2/2. Barb will contact Steve
to let him know the urgency. Two invoices were from Wright Pierce for work completed on Pleasantview through December 25', and one
invoice was from Fitchburg for the amount that was expected of $8597.99. Barb had updated the website with the information on Troy's
resignation and the date that residents of Pratt, Lakeview & Pleasantview could expect to see betterments on their tax bills as December
2016. She stated that she was waiting for the septic repair program to get finalized before posting information on that. Carl asked if
Barb's updates went on the website directly but Barb pointed out that they are first approved by either Steve Malandrinos (IT) or Kerry
before being posted to the site. Minutes of 1/12/16 were sent out 1/2, but were not put on the agenda. It will be on the 2/9 agenda for
acceptance. Everyone complimented Emily on work well done. Carl asked for the word version as he had several small edits which he
would like to make before they are sent again. Barb noted that the Next meeting was February 9, 2016 at the DPW. Carl asked for
public comments. Bob E. came forward to clarify that on the funding program-time period, the loan is 10 years if the project is under
$5k and 20 years if over $5k. Mike had one more comment on grease trap reporting and introduced the possibility of online reporting
where restaurants could just post their reports online. This may help to generate email reminders. Carl asked Barb to mention this to
Carl asked for the motion to adjourn. Mike made the motion, John seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Meeting adjourned
at 9:13pm.
Respectfully submitted,
mils Jehti
Emily Leht
, Minutes Clerk
