===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CURRENT BUSINESS
Town Meeting results - All passed. At the next Town Meeting, there will have to be a vote if the
Commission wants to take money out of the I/l stabilization account. There was discussion of changing
the type of account so a Town vote would not be needed or leave as is and have as a reserve and use
operational funds. The bylaw still needs to go to the Attorney General's Office but is effective. The web
page needs to be updated with the new bylaw and grease trap regulations.
Pump Stations - Invitation for Bid FY17 Operations & Maintenance- To date, there are five requests
for bid. They are from Small Water System Services, Weston and Sampson, Veolia, IMS and American
Water Contract Service. There is a pre-bid conference at the DPW scheduled for May 12" at 1pm. Bids
are due by May 20th
Weekly reports 4/23, 4/30 - They were not received
Pratt/Lakeview/Pleasantview Project - The pavement plan and debt exclusion passed at town meeting
but still needs to go to the polls. Right now, the main roads are being done. If this passes local roads will
be done too. Pratt was not originally on the list but if it passes, it would move Pratt up the list as it was
part of the betterment. Laurie Kunz from Rennie Street sent an email that was received May 10* and read
by the Commission. The betterment assessment was discussed, which has an August deadline. It was
suggested inviting Steve P. from Weston and Sampson, who had done it previously to the next meeting to
get it started. Discussion followed on talking to neighbors and encouraging people to vote in favor of the
pavement plan.
Grease Trap/Interceptor Program - Centre Pizza will be asked to submit a waiver request or they will
Small Water Systems FOG (Fats, Oil, Grease) Proposal - The proposal is now for $19,500. The
Commission reviewed the tasks on the proposal. The intent is to ask for $10,000 to be closer to self-
funding. Most of the work is up front, so expected period for half the contract price is 4 months. Deb will
be contacted and asked if she would be willing to do the program for four months for $10,000 starting July
1st. They will also be asked to inspect interceptors and set up a schedule going forward to time
inspections with cleanouts to gain the best information. The Commission discussed the annual letters and
permit costs. Barb and Sue will review all accounts to confirm that all are non-compliant. John brought up
the Ledger recount of the meeting with Colleen of Sean Patricks and how his comment 'level the playing
field' may have been misconstrued. The logs to be used for submittal will also be reviewed to make sure
measurement method is clear. The letter will state that fee is due by June 1st
. Carl noted that for the
remainder of the fiscal year and with the money left on the SWSS T&M PO he'd like to have the 6
interceptors looked at and have SWSS work with Hannaford to train them on how to open, inspect & take
measurements of the internal traps. The six accounts are Crossroads (who is due for their monthly pump
out), Asian, Ugly, Sean Patrick's, Hannaford & Bootleggers.
SCADA proposals - Two proposals were discussed. The one from Wright Pierce would cost over
$25,000. It was noted that it included a lot of suggestions to think about and things to do differently. The
proposal from Woodward and Curran was to do a study of the ten stations to determine what needs to be
done to upgrade and put SCADA in all ten. They were asked if they would be willing to propose for two
stations and they replied that it was not worth it to them or to the Town. The system currently in place is
pretty good. Dana from Wright Pierce had also previously stated that it would not save money in
operations. It was questioned whether Small Water is using the information that the SCADA system
provides. It was suggested to have them fill out a matrix, for the three big stations, of what all the alarms
are and what response is required. It is felt that the current SCADA system isn't understood and it is
difficult to know if there is a benefit to it. This will help the Commission understand what exactly SCADA
does and how Small Water is using the information. Deb from Small Water will be contacted about having
===PAGE 2===
o accept me mes 000
Motion - Sue B.
To accept the minutes for 3/29/2016
Second - John R.
Vote - Unanimous
The minutes from the 3/7/2016 workshop were reviewed. They had been tabled at the 4/26/16 meeting
Motion - John R.
To accept the minutes for 3/7/2016 workshop
Second - Sue B.
Vote - Unanimous
The minutes from 4/12/2016 were reviewed. Corrections will be made to the section on SCADA and the
wording will be clarified.
Motion - John R.
To accept the minutes of 4/12/2016 as amended
Second - Sue B.
Vote - Unanimous
Action File Issues
Invoices: There was one invoice from Koppelan and Paige for $357.
Hollis Hills - Dan McCarty, who represents Brogna, requested a meeting with the Town. Carl Luck,
Jaime Toale, Mike Sauvageau and Ray Beal attended. The development was discussed and Dan was
advised to proceed
Business Manager Report - Barb noted that she had provided the YTD figures for FY17 and added that
all PO's for current year spending must be in by May 27".
. She has spoken with Jack about line jetting and
he may have other ideas for spending through year-end as well. The I/I DEP Plan & Analysis was
discussed and the required submittal to DEP by December 2017. Pat Cotton of Weston and Sampson
had sent suggested actions on I/l and the DEP plan and analysis requirement back in February. This will
be put on the May 31s agenda for discussion.
Permits to connect - There are nine permits to connect: 40 Elm St, 96 Whalom, 166 Whalom, 83 West,
15 Oak Ave, 38 Pleasantview, 3 Oak Ave, 21 Pleasantview and 270 Electric.
Grease Trap Regulations - They were posted in the Ledger on May 6, 2016. The changes are in effect
as of that date.
ZBA issues: There will be two Hearings on 5/11/2016. They are for 8 Mass Ave (auto detailing/remote
starters) and for 234 Summer Street.
39 Mass Ave - Information on the oil/water separator was received today and will put it on the May 31st
agenda.
This was Mike Nault's last meeting but he never came to get his plaque honoring his service. Barb will
bring him the plaque and the cake to his place of business tomorrow. He will be missed.
UPCOMING SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES
There will be a Pre-bid Conference at the DPW on May 12, 2016. The Town Election will be on May 21,
2016. The next Regular Sewer Meeting is scheduled for May 31, 2016.
Motion - John R.
To adjourn at 8:50pm
Second - Sue B
Vote - Unanimous
Respectively Submitted,
Emily Lehto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
