===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
assessed in September, and will be reflected in December tax bills.
CURRENT BUSINESS - SRF Sewer Extension Project -Betterment Assessment - The Commission
discussed the final numbers still needed for betterment assessment and meeting the September
deadline. The meeting with Weston and Sampson on 8/23 and the revised spreadsheet confirming 94.5
units was reviewed. The Commission discussed 3 lots with potential for development. It was the
consensus of the group to add 3 potential privilege fee units for a total of 97.5 units.
Motion: Joe A.
To finalize the number of betterment units at 97.5
Second John R.
Vote: Unanimous
The Commission went on to briefly discuss releasing a lien once the betterment is paid. Barb will check
with counsel as to the timing of recording the liens for the betterments with the Registry.
Grease Trap Program -Small Water Systems - Jack Rodriquenz's memo of 8/30 was handed out. The
Commission read the section pertaining to the Small Water System Services invoice. Discussion followed
on the concerns the Commission had about the invoice and the need for clear communication. There is
still concern with paying on a T&M basis. Developing a policy where T&M invoices will be jointly approved
by the Sewer Commission and Jack R. was discussed and will be a subject for future discussion.
Grease Trap/Interceptor Proposal - There was discussion on the need to get the grease trap program
going. The Commission also discussed getting a quote from Small Water to do only the interceptors in
need of inspection to keep on schedule. Barb L. will discuss this with Jack R.
A&D Crossroads- An email has been sent to David Brambila requesting engineered plans and missing
pump-out reports. Neither has been received. Discussion followed on the floor drains at Ixtapa, which
Jack R. had noted in his 8/30 memo will need further investigation.
Bootleggers remediation - The Commission reviewed Jack's input from the 8/30 memo. It was noted
that he had received the plan from Bootlegger as requested and it looks like the issue is under control.
Kabobelicious- Certified letters were sent on 8/29 to the owner and both the local and regional Board of
Health. The owner submitted a payment for both annual and non-compliance fees but stated that she will
request a hearing on the $25/day fees. The Commission discussed her continued non-compliance.
I/l Reduction- Remediation of Manholes - Jack's input from the 8/30 memo was reviewed. The
Commission discussed the budget amounts available for the work. Graham St. meter issues were
discussed as well. It was recommended that Jack set up a meeting with Wright Pierce to discuss both
Graham St and manholes to come up with top priorities. The Commission wants to be advised when the
meeting is to occur and review the proposed work before commitment made. Also discussed was Jack's
recommendation for the installation of a temporary meter above the Graham St meter. The Commission
would like a comprehensive plan before any action is taken. John R. would like access to the flow meter
data to review and check against precipitation records.
Pump Stations - Weekly reports were reviewed. The Commission would like more input on actions taken
and would like more input from Jack's weekly meetings with SWSS. The Commission discussed having
the run data for Dana St. looked into and having it noted which days the actual data is taken in the future.
Minutes/Action File Issues - Q1 Commitment was not ready for signature.
Minutes - There was one edit on the 8/9/16 minutes. Under Outreach to LWD, it will be added that John
Reynolds was asked to be liaison and he agreed.
Motion: John R.
To approve the minutes of 8/9/16 as amended
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Motion: John R.
Second: Joe A.
===PAGE 2===
continue to nelp. It was discussed posting again. Invoices - Four Invoices were reviewed and approved.
Business Manager Report- A new site development plan for 274 Prospect St. was submitted and the
Planning Board hearing is on 9/12. It was noted that the Lunenburg Water Dept. rate will increase from
$60/quarter to $63.
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activities
September 13, 2016 Regular Sewer Commission Meeting, DPW at 6:30pm
Motion: Joe A.
To adjourn at 8:04pm
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully submitted,
wil Sato
Emily Lehto,
Vinutes Assistant
