===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
He asked if they are pumped once a month and inspected at that time, if that would suffice and if there
could be something put in the regulations stating that. Stewart's has not been taking measurements when
they have pumped. They have only been sending in a letter stating that they have been clean. Marc B.
sated that they are trying to adjust to the new regulations and that they have asked them to start
documenting this. Carl asked if someone could be trained, with the help of Small Water System Services,
to take off the covers and do the measurements. Marc B. stated that several employees would have to be
trained to do this and that it would be a lot of work for them; but if they are being cleaned monthly, they
should be in compliance. Carl made the point that without the measurements in between there is no proof
that they are not exceeding their limits and pushing grease into the system. Carl stated that the weekly
measurements are needed to show that they only need to be pumped once a month. Once there are
enough data points, they can apply for a waiver to modify the process. His feedback was appreciated and
his concerns will be taken into consideration by the Commission.
Unitil (357 Electric Avenue) Jamie Rheault, Whitman and Bingham - The intent is to have the plans
for Unitil's new building at 357 Electric Ave approved by the Sewer Commission which will complete the
plan review. He stated that the plans have already been approved by the Planning Board and the
Conservation Commission. He would like a letter stating that the plans have been received and approved
by the Commission. Next, they will apply for a building permit and then the contractor will come in for a
sewer permit. Jeff form Grave's has reviewed the plans and suggested that the oil/gas separator size be
increased, which they have done. Carl has concern that there is no allocation for flow on the wash station.
Jamie stated that there is no separate calculation for that. It is all contained in the Title V calculation that
takes into account the square footage of the building and the number of employees. Carl stated that
having a wash station is not normal for an office and it is important to know the gallons used to calculate
connection fees. Jamie has already brought this concern to Unitil's attention. John R. noted that accepting
this design is independent of connection fees. Another concern was the pipe high in the ground at the
entrance and that the coverage remains. Jack Rodriquenz stated that it is encased in steel reinforced
concrete. The review letter from Jeff at Grave's was reviewed by the Commission.
Motion - Mike N.
To accept Unitil's plans for 357 Electric Ave
Second - John R.
Vote - Unanimous
Lunenburg Storage (270 Electric Avenue) Richard Bursch - Richard Bursch came to present the
plans for his self-storage facility and for approval of the change of use application. The plan is to have
roughly 50, 000 square feet of building space with 420 units. There will be a roughly 1,000 square foot
office with one bathroom that does not have public access. There will be sprinkler systems installed
There is a stub present that lines up with the entrance that he would like to connect to. The Commission
reviewed the plans. His plan is to erect steel buildings on foundations for mid-august so sewer and water
will need to be put in before that time. There was some confusion about the stub coming from a manhole
in the street. It was discussed that this is unlikely and probably a typo. The sewage flow from that location
was also discussed. A letter from Whitman and Bingham that Mr. Bursch received stated the minimum
flow of 200 gallons but calculated the usage at 75 gallons per day. The property is metered separately for
water which is currently coming off of West Street but will be moved to come off of Electric Ave. There will
be landscaping but there are no plans for irrigation. The Commission discussed the Change of Use
application and whether there was a need for it. Carl questioned whether it should be a connection permit
instead since there was no use of the land before. It was previously a greenhouse area with no sewer
access. This detail will be squared away at a later time.
===PAGE 2===
data to apply for waivers. Richard Bursch also provided feedback on the regulation changes. He clarified
for the Commission that there is only one interceptor at The Ugly Omelet that has two chambers with two
manholes, which might have led to the confusion that there were two interceptors. He thought the
changes were logical and made sense. His only concern was with the penalty for non-compliance with
permit fees. He believed that the penalty should only be for the quarters of non-compliance as opposed to
a year. It was clarified that the Permit Fee is billed once a year and not quarterly, therefore the penalty
runs the whole year.
Small Water Systems Proposal - The proposal was received the afternoon of the meeting so the
Commission did not have time to review. Carl did note that the cost is still about 3x the fees collected at
$19,500 and that there is all new wording that will need to be reviewed. He stated that there is still
enough money in the program to keep it running until the contract is resolved
Crossroads Grease Interceptor Inspection- John R. was present for the inspection at Crossroads of
the external interceptor along with Twin River and Small Water. The original design has a 6,000 gallon
tank but the tank present is only 1, 0000. There is also no baffle and only recently were T's put in the inlet
and outlet. The tank was not built to design and this has allowed grease to enter the system. Twin River
calculated the fog and sludge at 34%, which is in violation of the25% rule. The last time the tank was
pumped was the beginning of December and Twin River has suggested that it be pumped every month.
Carl noted two issues: What do we tell them to do right away and what are the steps to get the problem
fixed. Jack R. was asked for his input. He suggested that the owner be told to install the designed tank
and to pump as frequently as the Sewer Commission decides and to send documentation. John R. also
suggested that someone from the Commission or Small Water be present at the next pumping since
there seems to be communication issues through the owner to those doing the work and to ensure
accurate measurements. After discussion, the Commission decided that Crossroads needs to pump once
a month and to be notified two days beforehand. A Violation Notice of the interceptor not being to design
with a $50 fine will be sent and due in 30 days of notification. It was also discussed having them submit
an engineer plan within the 30 days also. If they are non-compliant, a per day fee kicks in and the
Commission can choose to formally tell them that they cannot dispose of waste into the system and
inform the Board of Health.
Motion: Sue B
To send Notice of Violation to Crossroads of $50 fine
Second: John R.
Vote - Unanimous
Donnelly's - Carl informed the Commission that they have paid last year's permit fee.
Lunenburg Schools - The schools will be cleaning their grease traps on April 20th
Zeda's Pub & Grill - They have sent in permit for new location and are up to date on logs.
Pratt/Lakeview/Pleasantview Paving discussion - Jack R., who will be overseeing the project, stated
that it is all going to be paved through different funding sources. It may, in some part, reduce the
betterment. Wright Pierce will contact CJP about extending their contract since some of the paving is
contingent on the debt exclusion being approved when the Town votes on May 21st. The Commission
discussed the debt exclusion and its approval. If approved, the debt exclusion will bring the roads up to
SCADA - Wright Pierce will provide two quotes: one for installing a system similar to what there already
is and another for broader SCADA software that the town could continue to add stations to. The new
software could be integrated into the one station that has an existing system or they could start from
scratch. They have committed to having it done by May 22a.
. Mike N., John R., and Jimmy from Small
Water met prior to the meeting with Wright Pierce and the fieldtrip to discuss the benefits of SCADA. It
was discussed whether or not there are advantages for the Town to have SCADA. Currently, all pump
===PAGE 3===
So far 33% have been inspected. The commission went on to discuss whether the new manholes in the
betterment should be inspected and the additional cost.
CWMP - The major changes to the CWMP were reviewed. Some of the changes are with rerouting waste
water from Fitchburg to Leominster. Leominster's rates are about half of Fitchburg's. This would reduce
operating costs, and additional capacity capital costs to Fitchburg to fund John Fitch Highway. The
revised plan does stay within the Fitchburg IMA but not within the Leominster IMA. The other changes
include new extension cost estimates, which the Commission discussed, and updates.
Pump Stations - Request for Bid FY17 Operations & Maintenance - Jack R. noted that there cannot
be an RFP and a bid at the same time. This will be rectified. Mike N., Jack R and Jimmy all worked on
cleaning up and clarifying the wording. The commission reviewed and some details with wording were
discussed and changes suggested. The bid price section will be changed to have the bidder's labor rates
included
Pump Station Reports - Mike N. reviewed and everything is fine. A routine test was completed on a
couple and new generator hours were discussed.
Twin City - Betterment Reassessment - Twin City paid the betterment but has now divided the
property and sold the lot the betterment was on. They are requesting the betterment be reassigned. The
commission discussed this and concluded that additional information is needed for clarification.
Sewer Commission Projects: Website - Barb has updated the website with new information.
Minutes - The minutes were not received in time for review and will be discussed at the next meeting
Invoices - One invoice from Small Water was received. It was an adjusted invoice that also included the
Crossroads trip. It was for a total of 16 hours
Motion - John R
To approve the invoice for Small Water in the amount of $1,152.00
Second - Sue B.
Vote - Unanimous
The next Sewer Commission meeting will be on April 26 at Town Hall. This will be the second Public
Hearing on the Bylaw, Grease Traps and CWMP changes and will be televised. There will be a Joint
Executive Session on April 19 at Town Hall with the Board of Selectmen and ZBA on Hollis Hills. There
is also a Board of Selectman meeting on April 1g, where the Sewer Commission will have a presentation
of Warrant Articles.
Motion - Sue B.
To adjourn at 9:46pm
Second - John R.
Vote - Unanimous
Respectively Submitted,
Quit Lehto
Emily Lehto, Mihutes Assistant
