===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Rodgers from Highland Street asked about the betterment project. He had heard a figure of
$67,000 at the Board of Selectman meeting.
7pm Public Hearing
Bylaw change- Regulation update process - ATM Warrant Article 36
Carl read from the prepared presentation that is available at the DPW office.
Colleen Flannigan, owner of Sean Patrick's, asked if everyone was going to start with a clean slate,
as far as compliance goes, for the July 1s1 permit fee due date. It was clarified that there has always
been an additional fee for noncompliance but it now has been simplified into whether you are fully
compliant or not instead of three tiers. Carl stated that it will be a level playing field since most are not
compliant. She also asked about waivers for external grease traps. Bob Ebersole from Main Street
stated that as a homeowner on sewer, he supports the regulation changes. He noted that there is a
requirement to get approval from Fitchburg and Leominster for the changes since that is where the
waste water goes. Dave Rodgers had several questions. The first was how many internal and
external Interceptors are there and what will be their revenue. Carl responded that there are 18
establishments that have grease traps. Eight of those have interceptors and of those one is in inactive
and one is being deactivated so six are operational. There are twelve that have internal grease traps
only. Carl noted that the new regulations will be effective upon publication and that the permit and
fees will be effective July1st.
Motion - Sue B.
Second - John R.
To close hearing on the revised sewer bylaw and regulation changes
Discussion - Carl asked if there were any recommendations from users for modification to the
regulations. John R. mentioned that there was one comment from 3/29 about training employees.
Carl stated that this is part of the start-up cost and that training will be provided. He encouraged
people to call and request training if needed.
Vote - Unanimous
CWMP update - Warrant Article 35
Carl read from the prepared presentation that is available at the DPW office.
Carl opened this up for discussion with Wright Pierce. Kevin Olsen from Wright Pierce explained the
different betterment costs for the areas. He explained that State Roads increase the cost because
Mass DOT has special requirements when it comes to paving. Also, if there is less population density
in an area this will increase the betterment cost because there are less units to spread it across. Dave
Rodgers came forward and wanted to know more about Area 25. Carl stated that it would be a
commercial district by Pioneer Drive that is more of an investment. He also questioned why the
betterment for Area 6 was now $19,000 when $35,000 was bandied about. Carl explained that the
costs were lower than expected and that $19,000 was a good estimate. Dave Rodgers made a point
that there are additional costs, on top of the betterment, for residents who wish to tie into the sewer.
He asked that Area 9, Whalom Area, be clarified. It was explained that the area includes Sunnyhill
Road, Hollis and West Street. Dave R. also asked if the small pressure units on Lancaster Avenue
will have to be replaced when Rolling Acres sewer is done. He also questioned why they were
installed when Rolling Acres was a large area that needed sewer. Carl explained a gravity system
with a pump station would have been over a million dollars and would not have been feasible for six
people to cover and there were serious septic issues. Dave Rodgers asked how replacement pumps
are going to be paid for when there are no funds accruing for it. Carl responded that there is the
Enterprise Fund and Retained Earnings. This is where money would come from if a pump needs to
be replaced or it may be borrowed. Carl added that they are in good shape with about $1.2 million if
something where to happen. His next question was what Leominster charges the Town and what the
people whose sewerage goes there are charged. Carl explained that there is one blended rate which
===PAGE 2===
see what manholes have defects and they will then make recommendations on rehabbing to prevent
inflow. The report to the state needs to be submitted by June 15" and the Sewer Commission will
have opportunity to review the draft before then. Carl asked if there are any areas to begin working on
to reduce I/l. Matt replied that no major defects have been found.
Twin City Waiver request - There is a request for a waiver and an abatement of the noncompliance
fine that was assessed. They have removed the sink but documentation from the plumbing inspector
has not been received. They will be contacted to provide this. Carl brought up a similar situation with
the former Center Pizza, where there is an interceptor in the ground but the establishment is no
longer preparing food. The Commission discussed waivers and deactivating grease interceptors.
Section K of the regulations was reviewed which covers waivers for interceptors/traps. It states that
as long as the interceptor is in the ground it must be inspected once every six months and cleaned
once a year. The former Center Pizza will be informed that they should apply for a waiver.
Pump Stations - Request for Bid FY17 - There are two options. It can either be a Request for
Proposal or an Invitation for Bid. Jack R. stated that over the past years the Scope of Services has
been fine-tuned and tweaked. He feels that the expectations, communication, pump station and
generator maintenance has been well defined. He recommended that the Commission go out for a
sealed bid with agreement by procurement officer. The other option would be the Request for
Proposal (RFP). It involves offering it to vendors who will then come in with two envelopes. One
envelope contains the proposal and the other their fees. The next step is to grade the different bids
and then bidding could be opened. This was the process went through originally. There will be a pre-
bid conference to further discuss the details and answer questions with prospective bidders. Jack
stated that he would like to see a pay schedule for the transitional coverage per the same rate table
added elsewhere in the document. All agreed and it will be updated.
Motion: John R.
Second: Sue B.
To use the Invitation for Bid process for next O&M contract for the sewer system
Vote - Unanimous
Motion: Mike N.
table
Second: John R.
To accept the Invitation for Bid document with the addendum of transitional support with rate
Vote: Unanimous
Pump Station Reports - No one had issues with reports.
Pratt/Lakeview/Pleasantview Paving - There are no updates.
Minutes will be moved to next meeting.
Twin City - Reassessment request -Barb explained that we need to assign the betterment under
the parcel id with School & Buildings. Betterment was originally assessed to the parcel ID 77-14
which was owned by Twin City. It is just land that they have now sold to Greener Living. Betterment
should have been assessed to 78-69 where the school and church buildings reside. She had worked
with the Assessors and Collector's office on this reassessment. Collector's had also provided backup
to the new amount of $33,508.83. Assessors and Collectors need the Commission to sign the
Reassessment form in order to put betterments under correct id. Carl had concerns about the
betterments assigned to one parcel when Twin City had originally had 3 parcels. Barb noted that
assessments were made on the buildings, but adjusted for frontages and exempted for pump station
being located on the property. She added that Greener Living can be assessed privilege fees for the
additional use per the bylaw. Bob came forward to clarify that for Twin City, as non-residential the
betterment was assessed based on capacity, not land, so there would be no issues assessing further
fees for future expansion. Barb will be sending Twin City a letter regarding the FY16 betterment and
the correction to the parcel id's for both Twin City and Greener Living.
===PAGE 3===
concern is whether there is a floor drain and if that will drive the need for grease/oil separator.\\
Upcoming Sewer Commission Activities
There will be an Annual town Meeting on May 7* at 9am at Lunenburg High School. On May 10th
there will be a Regular Sewer Commission Meeting at the DPW. On May 21St, there will be the Town
Election at Passios Elementary School.
Commission Comments - Mike N. noted that this is his last televised meeting and thanked
residents for votes to allow him to serve
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn at 9:55pm
Seconded: Sue B.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully Submitted,
mul Lebto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
