===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
a.
It was the unanimous opinion that it an external trap is installed, it is not required to have
internal traps on equipment
i.
Plumbing detail/diagrams are required to confirm all relevant equipment, drains are
connected to the external trap.
ii. Confirmation via on site testing should be done; dye, camera, etc.
2. External trap pumping
a. At a minimum it was felt that on-site inspection at the time of pumping by a SC agent should
be done at least once per year.
b. The option of the SC taking over responsibility for pumping was seen as very interesting
alternative
i. Permit fee for establishments with external trap would be increased to cover cost for
2-3 pumping's per year.
3. Clarification of inspection requirements, internal and external traps
a. If an external trap is used for all equipment, then it was the opinion of the participants that
Sewer Commission monitoring of inspection and or cleaning of internal traps was not required
b. For internal traps, inspection should require a measurement of grease to be logged weekly
and if 25% level is reached before the required monthly cleaning it needs to be done at that
time
4. Permit Fees
It was proposed the annual fees be received no later than June 30 and if not received a letter
be sent to the establishment that they do not have permission to dispose of kitchen waist into
the sewer system. A copy would be sent to the BOH which should trigger action on their part
regarding food preparation.
Fee structure would be evaluated to cover all costs.
c. The different fee levels would be reviewed, simplified, clarified and made clearer regarding
which level applies
5. "Decommissioning" needs to be defined. The CMR may provide clear guidelines regarding when traps
are not required that can be used.
Regulation Change Process
Discussed rough idea of a process to use for changes to Regulations. The goal is to improve visibility by the public
and provide ample opportunity for public comment and input.
Draft Plan:
1. Establish draft of proposed changes during regular, properly posted open meetings.
2. Once there is consensus on the proposed changes, advertise a formal hearing in a local newspaper at
least 14 working days before the hearing.
3. Post the hearing at least 14 days in advance.
4. Hold two hearings at two consecutive open, regularly scheduled meetings, at least one of which must
be televised and the other televised or taped for rebroadcast.
5. Hearings may be continued or closed after the two required hearings at the discretion of the
Commission
6. Once the hearing is closed, the final changes will be drafted and voted on.
===PAGE 2===
VUIL
5. Need to review CMR and current regulation to identify any inconsistencies, wording, definitions, etc. or
items that should be added to Regs. Sue B. (?)
Follow up meeting to be called for Monday March 7t at 4:00 at the DPW.
›arl Luck, Chairmal
