===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of Sewer Commission Meeting on October 11th
', 2016, DPW, 520 Chase Rd.
Attendees: Commissioners- John Reynolds, Joan Pease, Joe Anderson, Carl Luck;
Guests: Richard St. Cyr
Meeting called to order at 6:30
6:30 Appointment: Kabobelicious representative did not show, there were no communication
received prior to the meeting regarding attendance or outstanding violation.
Public Records: Joan gave an update of her discussions with the Interim Town Manager, Dave
Marciello, regarding the meeting tape recording. Per Dave, until the minutes are written, the tape is
considered a public record and copies may be given upon request. IF the minutes are only used to
support the written document, it may be destroyed/erased at that time. Otherwise they continue to be
a public record and should be treated accordingly.
Roles and Responsibilities: Joan reported that she was led to believe that there was a town
document that outlined the roles and responsibilities but it was not able to be found. Joan will continue
search.
Sewer Commission Charter: there was a sentence by sentence review of the charter for the Sewer
Commission and Sewer Operations (DPW). Day to day operations and maintainence of sewer system
is under the control of the Town Manager normally delegated to the DPW Director. The Sewer
Commission primarily is responsible to oversee the Sewer Enterprise Fund, setting rates and long
range planning. Some discussion followed regarding the overlap between being responsible of the
budget, preparation and controlling, and providing sewer service including planning. Due to concerns
regarding a perceived tension between the Commission and Operations, the consensus of the
members was that additional cooperative effort by both parties is needed to clarify the lines of
responsibilities. One suggestion was to establish regular, perhaps quarterly, meetings with Operations
and the Town Manager to review status and future activities. At that time any issues causing conflict
could be addressed. The members were asked to think about what a short list of processes/activities
could be to work through the roles and responsibilities (RASIC).
FY 17/18 Goals: members to review list of Goals started by the Chair to be discussed at an upcoming
meeting.
Motion to Adjourn by Joe Anderson to reconvene at Town Hall for a Joint Session with Board
of Selectmen for the appointment of Richard St. Cyr, seconded by Joan Pease at 7:23 PM.
Unanimously approved.
Reopened the meeting at 7:45pm at Town Hall in Joint Session with the Board of Selectmen
Chairman Toale invited the Sewer Commissioners to come forward to mutually appoint Richard St.
Cyrto the commission. Chairman Luck opened their meeting and recognized members Joan Pease,
Joe Anderson and John Reynolds. This appointment would be until the next town election. Mr. St. Cyr
stated he has worked in the wastewater field for thirty years. He believed he could be an asset to the
Board and would be willing to run for election next year. He is also a sewer customer.
Bob Ebersole made the motion, Tom Alonzo seconded: To appoint Richard St. Cyr to the
Sewer Commission until the next annual election
Vote: Mr. Toale-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Ms. Luck aye, Mr.
Luck-aye, Ms. Pease- aye, Mr. Anderson- aye, Mir. Reynolds- aye
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. St. Cyr for coming forward. Mr. Luck stated he is also thankful that Mr. St. Cyr
came forward.
Sewer Commission meeting was adjourned at 8:00pm.
Kespec
ully
mitted,
Carl Luck, Chair
