===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Appointments
Jamie Rheault from Whitman and Bringham did not attend to discuss the Leominster Sewer direct connect request for 835
Leominster Road. Carl had contacted him after the last meeting and had an informal discussion about the request. He informed
him that the request was not being supported but that the commission was open to discussion.
Current Business
Highfield Village - Carl attended a Panning Board meeting and gave the Commission an update. This development is based
upon a cluster development model. This allows more dense housing but 50% has to be open space and of that only 10% can be
wetland. Currently, 50% of the open space is wetland. The Planning Board will determine what happens next. The current sewer
drawings are the same except for the addition of one pipe and a pump. The pipe was added beyond the Sewer Service Area to
where there is to be a future development. Previously, the Sewer Commission had told them that they had no say to what pipes
they put in the ground but made it clear that the area would not be added to the Sewer Service Area. There has now been a
pump added. Carl requested that the Planning Board ask them to remove the pump during public comment. The Planning Board
274 Prospect Street, Peer Review - New plan sheets were sent out after last meeting that incorporated the requests that Jack
Rodriquenz had made.
FY17 Budget - The budget will be going before the Finance Committee on March 17t. An updated budget was sent out to the
commission for review. Carl described the graph he had created marking betterment debt service and betterment income. From
an income point of view, for the new betterments, a flat line projection based on 2% interest was used. He wanted to ensure it is
conservative on income. The betterment for new projects still needs to be tied down. Weston & Sampson will be assisting with
this. There is a timeline for people to be notified in mid-August by letter on the betterment and for them to see it on their tax bill in
December. Carl reviewed the budget. The operating budget has an excess of $78,000 and there is a betterment deficit of
$155,000. The Sewer Commission will end the fiscal year in the red with $77,179.72.
Motion: J. Reynolds
2nd: M. Nault
To approve the FY17 Budget
Vote was unanimous.
Town Meeting Warrant Articles - The Town Meeting will be the first week in May. Warrants for the town meeting must be to the
selectman by March 24th. What the Sewer Commission will be submitting to the selectman was discussed. They will be asking
for a transfer from the enterprise fund to cover the $77,000 in red from the budget and for transferring capacity fees collected to
the capacity fund. A revised comprehensive sewer plan will also be presented for approval by the Town. There is no change to
the Sewer Service Area but there are updates to flows being sent to Leominster as opposed to Fitchburg, which has higher rates.
Also, the cost models have been updated taking into account what has been learned from the latest extension.
Bylaw-Regulation Changes - Bylaws can only be changed at Town Meetings but regulations can be changed by the board.
There is no documented process for changing regulations. Carl suggested setting up some workshops to discuss this issue and
formalize the process. The commission agreed. It was suggested to start by viewing other commission's policy on changing
regulations.
Grease Trap Interceptor Program Status - A letter was sent on February 19th to the owner of Crossroads Plaza requesting
that research be done into the construction of the external grease trap. What was on plan was not what was built. He was also
advised that the Sewer Commission would like to be present when he does have it inspected. The owner will first need it pumped
and the features confirmed through pictures. The second step would be to have any necessary repairs completed.
===PAGE 2===
started. There are two things needed: the requirement of what we want quoted and the RFP process. The contract needs to be
fine-tuned and have meter readings, generator maintenance and possibly grease trap added in.
Weekly Report Review Pump Station Reports - Mike N. went through them and there are no concerns.
Wright Pierce - An update on CMP was given. Currently, they are working on updating what is going to be developed over
the next 20 years in Town. Manhole Inspections - There is going to be a meeting at the DPW on February 24th with Jack R. to
discuss the details of the upcoming manhole inspections. Carl L. and John R. will be attending.
Annual Report - The annual report that Barb L had put together was discussed and approved.
Minutes - The minutes from February 9, 2016 will be amended to clarify the funding sources for public projects/individuals. The
Board of Health has the Lunenburg Septic System Repair Program which is separate from the Rural Development grant/loan.
Motion: J. Reynolds
2nd: S. Bunish
To accept the 2/9/2016 minutes as amended
Vote was unanimous
Action File Issues - Q3 Commitment was signed off on as well as invoices from Fitchburg and Leominster. An invoice from
SWSS was also discussed. There were questions about billing for travel time, writing a proposal, putting a binder together and
rates. Carl stated that they have to stick to the Statement of Work. Weston and Sampson submitted a bill for a connection fee
analysis. They are close to reaching the $5,000 limit and will be advised that they are not authorized to do any more work.
Sewer Update Commission Projects
out of compliance be sent a letter to inform them that their permit will be suspended and the Board of Health notified if the fee is
not paid. He also suggested that in the future establishments be given only a 30 day time span to pay the fee.
SCADA - Wright Pierce was given the manual and has everything needed. They will be contacted to see when they would be
able to give us a quote. John R. will be contacting another company and speaking with them to see if they would be interested in
the project. This would give a total of three companies including SWSS. Carl would like SWSS to do a value analysis and detail
how they've saved the Town money.
Funding Sources - John R. found another document on the Rural Grant that gave more information about qualifying and what it
entails. There is also a 2 page letter that gives information on who to contact in the agricultural department and how to go about
the application. It was suggested that a link for both be put on the website for those interested. Also, it was suggested that this
information be publicized on Public Access, in the Senior Center and The Ledger.
Business Manager Report
It was discussed putting Septic Repair on the website once the details were finalized. FAQ's will be discussed at the next
meeting. The next regular meeting will be on March 8, 2016
Commissioners Comments
Carl made a comment that he would like a more formalized relationship between the Sewer Commission, Conservation
Commission and Planning Board. He suggested creating a forum for shared information to improve communication between the
three. John R. agreed that this was a good idea. This could benefit the town and encourage development.
===PAGE 3===

