===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
capacily.
size of pipe. It was discussed that the Town should get an oil/grease separator policy that is standardized for the entire Town so that
engineers can just pull the requirements from Town documents. Jamie wanted to confirm the process: he would fill out the Large Project
application, providing the Commission the estimated flows, make the minor plan changes. He confirmed that he will send the changes to
Jeff at Graves and cc the Commission next week. Once that is done and Graves Engineering approves, the Commission will send him a
like it will support the project and should have that letter within 2 weeks. Also, he has not been able to get an answer yet from Roger
Brooks on the subject and hopes that he has done so by the next meeting. He asked that we have it on the next agenda. Jamie and
Marc Belliveau left the meeting.
The project at 274 Prospect Street was discussed next. There was a question from the January 8th letter. Question #24 stated "No
further comment" at the end. Was everything fixed? Jeff explained that the letter structure is structured so the most recent information is
at the reader's fingertips. There were a number of issues but none major. He wanted to get them on the table and the best way to do that
was through a draft letter dated September 8th. It was never an official letter. All issues were resolved. The discussion then went on to
the design of the sewer which was done by W&B. Discussion focused on the manhole and the plug cap. Plan will be revised and a copy
sent to the Commission. There are no other major concerns. The number of units has been reduced from 22 to 18. Inspections will be
done as work is completed. Jeff mentioned that W&B is a small engineering firm that works a lot with water/wastewater. The sewer
commission asked for a reference on SCADA systems, telemetry and remote monitoring.
835 Leominster Road - Carl wanted to have a dialogue about 835 Leominster Road. Jack provided some history with that area as it
relates to Leominster sewer. It was noted that in 2011 the lot was subdivided into a 3 acres lot and 11 acres lot. A new septic system for
a 3 bedroom house was installed at the same time on the 3 acre parcel. The commission concluded that not being able to install septic
on the 11 acre lot was not a hardship. The situation was created when the property was subdivided. Developing a procedure and policy
about these types of situations was also discussed to help guide future commissions. An excerpt from an email from counsel was read. It
stated that since the property is outside the SSA there is no obligation of the Commission to allow a connection to the Lunenburg sewer
system. Whether the Commission has the authority to deny connection to Leominster is less clear and not necessary to answer since
any connection to Leominster would have to be done pursuant to an IMA.
Current Business -
CWMP - Carl noted that we need to update the information provided by the Planning Board and get it to Wright Pierce.
Pump Stations O&M Contract -It was noted that the SWSS contract is coming up to bid on 7/1/2016. The process needs to begin and it
was discussed who would be bidding. Currently, Small Water Systems Services, L.L.C. has the contract. Wright Pierce bidding was
discussed. Also discussed was what would be in the contract and having it include generator maintenance. A meeting will be held
beforehand to discuss and decide on the details.
Budget FY17 -There are still some issues with the projection of the 20 year budget. The betterment portion of the operating budget still
needs to be figured out. Interest rates for loans were discussed and whether that number should be 2% or 5%. A new updated
spreadsheet is currently being worked on.
Grease Interceptor Inspection Status -
SWSS Program - The Small Water proposal that was received January 26th was discussed. It contained an overview of present
regulations and detailed how the restaurants would submit paperwork to SWSS for them to track and how they would contact restaurants
for non-compliance. It was brought up that an online reporting option should be added. This will be discussed in the next meeting.
308 Mass Ave (Crossroads) Inspection - The issues from the Crossroads inspection were discussed. The inlet pipe does not have
inverted T. This needs to be fixed, inspected and confirmed with a photograph for the record. There was a 3 bay sink that may not be
ecled toan interceptor anda second 3 bay sinka lra withora grese rae Die cursion fol andon tareanld bere ired ernd
what the regulations should state. It was suggested that meetings/workshops be held to discuss this and that a hearing on the new
===PAGE 2===
Project List paales
Sue proposed adding a Frequently Asked Questions section to the website. Often even though the information is there, people do not
know where to look. Sue will work on this project, It was noted that care must be taken to make sure correct information is posted and
there should be a disclaimer suggesting people refer to their attorney or tax professional.
Grease Traps (Sue) -Non-compliance for Hadwen Market, Donnelly's and Walmart were discussed. It was noted that Donnelly's was
definitely the least compliant and it was decided that the non-compliance process would start. A letter notifying them of their non-
compliance and a $50 fee will be sent. If nothing is received in 30 days there will be a $25 per day penalty.
SCADA Systems -It was discussed if it was worth the expense to have SCADA Systems at other stations. It was suggested that it
needed to be determined how many visits SCADA had saved and therefore saved the Town money. SWSS could help determine this.
The three larger stations were discussed: Leominster Road (already done), Mass 1, and Dana.
Funding Sources for Public Projects/Individuals (Sue) - Funding Sources for Public Projects/Individuals (Sue) -The grant/loan
program through Rural Development was discussed. We need to determine the rural designation area. Sue and John will work on this
Wite ear an Program aner hang noone wring at would dude apricans who are interested a se
hooking up to town sewer.
Flow Rate/Metering (Mike) - Mike was there for the beginning of the flow meters inspection by Flow Assessment. Wright Pierce was
also present to look at replacing the cabinet on Mass Ave. Mike noted that everything is in place as far as wiring and just needs to be set
in place. Wright Pierce will get back to us with a quote.
Minutes Approval- John wanted to make a clarification on a comment he made during the January 12th meeting. He meant that owners
should want their tanks cleaned correctly because they are spending money on it. Minutes of January 12 and January 26, 2016 were
approved.
January 12, 2016 - Motion: J. Reynolds, 2nd: S. Bunish. Vote: all in favor
January 26, 2016 - Motion: M. Nault, 2nd: J. Reynolds. Vote: all in favor
Business Manager Report
The Sewer Commission vacancy has been posted in the Ledger and on the Bulletin Board. An interested party has already
approached Mike who suggested he fill out the talent bank form. Highfield Village - Counsel was asked if they would have to pay
privilege fees and it was determined that they do not. The line did not cost the Town any money, so a privilege fee cannot be charged.
Discussion followed regarding developments that were not in place at the time the line was installed that are eligible for being assessed
a privilege fee. The Commissioners also discussed the design for Highfield Village and whether the plans had changed to include
pumping stations. The Commission will need to review the new plans if this is the case. The Annual Report is due February 25'. There
will be a draft for the Commission to review at the meeting on February 23rd. One invoice was approved for payment. Next meeting on
February 23.
Motion: J. Reynolds
To adjourn meeting at 9:43 pm
2nd: M. Nault
Vote: All in favor
Respectfully submitted,
Emil
Lelto
Emily Lehto, Minutes Assistant
