===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chair, and Joseph Anderson, Member. Present for the Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert
Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Member; and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
Resignation from Sewer Commission
Mr. Toale read Sue Bunish's letter to the Sewer Commission announcing her resignation effective July 9" due
to family reasons and stating she was fortunate to have had the opportunity to work with a committed, ambitous
and knowledgable group. Mr. Toale thanked her for her service to the Town.
Mr. Toale asked Carl Luck to come forward for the Sewer Commission. Carl Luck also wanted to thank Ms.
Bunish for her service and he wished her the best.
Joint Appointment to Sewer Commission with Sewer Commissioners
Mr. Luck called the joint meeting of the Sewer Commission to order at 7:22pm. Mr. Toale requested that Joan
Pease of 11 Wintergreen Court come forward and introduce herself with the request to be appointed to the
Sewer Commission. Ms. Pease has lived in Lunenburg for six years. She is a retired chemistry teacher. Ms.
Pease stated as part of her curriculum she would take her students to waste water plants to study the process.
She thought she would have something to offer to this board. Mr. Luck stated he would be delighted to have
Joan's skills on the commission. When asked if she would run for election next year, she stated to best of her
knowledge she would.
Motion: C. Luck
2': R. Ebersole
To appoint Joan Pease to the Sewer Commission until the next election
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, asked if Ms. Luck should recuse herself from the vote as she is married to
the Chairman of the Sewer Commission. Attorney Mark Reich of KP Law (Town Counsel) stated conflict of
interests address financial interest. He was not aware of any financial interest or gain for the Lucks in this
appointment. Mr. Toale asked members of both Boards if they felt there was any financial interest in this
appointment. There was none. Mr. Rodgers cited previous occasions where other board members have recused
themselves from appointments. Mr. Ebersole noted in those cases, the Board members were related to the
person who was being appointed. Tonight's candidate is not related to anyone on the board.
Vote: Mr. Luck-aye, Mr. Reynolds-aye, Mr. Anderson-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr.
Toale-aye
Joint Session was adjourned at 7:27pm and the Selectmen resumed their regular meeting
Respectfully submitted,
/Barb Letebvre, Business Manager (not present)
In collaboration with Elaine M. Peterson, Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
