===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Daniels, aye, Car Luck, aye. Commission entered into eise Session at vote on Reynolds, aye, Troy
Commission discussed the Allocation Agreement draft provided by Jeff Blake, KP Law. Barb stated that originally
opposing counsel agreed to this arrangement, but Jeff is unable to get counsel to now return his calls. Two items on the
docket are approval of the draft and actions to take if he continues to get no answer to his calls.
Troy confirmed that the agreement is that everything owed is paid over 20 years. Discussion followed on the start date
and it was agreed that it would be effective once fully executed.
Motion: Troy D.
That we approve the agreement in the amount of $57,716 to commence monthly payments of $240.48 upon
execution of the agreement.
Discussion: followed regarding whether we want monthly payments. Troy objected to having payments go annually. If
there was no agreement with JEG to going monthly, Carl would prefer annual payments and wants it left up to legal since
It Is more of a burden to go monthly. Troy prefers it to be 'asked and answered'. This is what we're presenting, since that
is how counsel set it up, we would stick with that frequency. It was confirmed that payments would be submitted to the
business ottice and that if the property sells, amount due would be fully payable. John agreed to leave the document as
written with monthly payments. Troy agreed.
Vote taken- John aye, Troy, aye, Carl, nay. Motion passed.
Barb noted that counsel also wanted to know what steps will be taken if their counsel continues to ignore KP Law's call.
He will let them know that we have a draft document for signature. We will rely on counsel recommendation on how to
proceed. The time limit for response is the end of October since that is how the approved document reads. Anything
beyond October is unacceptable. Barb read from Jeff's email to advise that he would like the document recorded at the
registry of deeds.
Barb read Jeff's email of 9/26: "attached is a draft of the agreement as i understand it. I contemplate that this agreement
would be filed with the registry of deeds. I have not been able to provide this to counsel for the property owner as he has
not returned my calls. Once the commission approves I will email it over to him and see if he will respond. If not we will
have to discuss options for moving forward." If they don't respond, we may also be able to lien the property for that
amount. Barb could check with counsel that this payment qualifies as one of the named fees in the recent Sewer
Commission article. Carl also pointed out that the Municipal Modernization article may also be applied. (Joe arrived
6: 19.)
Discussion followed on how long we stick with KP Law and when/if we switch over to new counsel. Carl confirmed that
our commitment with the Selectmen was to run this to ground with KP Law and if it doesn't come to a close, we would go
back to the Selectmen if we thought it best to stay with KP Law. Commission confirmed that they would give KP Law until
the end of October. If the agreement is in negotiations with some "nibbling away," they could extend the deadline and stay
with KP Law. If no response by the end of October, then they will to with town counsel.
Barb will let Jeff know to move forward and that we want it wrapped up by end of October.
Motion: John R.
Second: Troy D.
To adjourn executive session and go to the regular open meeting. Joe has joined the executive session.
Vote to adjourn by roll call: John R., Troy D., Joe A., and Carl L. -all aye.
Sewer Commission exited executive session at 6:27pm.
Respectively submitted,
