===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
need to go 6 feet down in the ground in the middle of the road. If he installs an E-one system on the resident's property along the side of
road, off the pavement, it would be a better option since it would not involve digging up the road or blasting and this option would be about
halfthe price. JackR. entered meeting and Carl asked Jack ifthere were any issues. Carl raised concern about the diameter of the pipe.
Bob said he could use 1 ½" pipe, instead of 1 ¼" and but he will consult with engineers at Whitman & Bingham concerning what would be
the bestoption. Discussion of payment of the betterment and privilege fee. Bob explained how he would connect at the manhole. John
suggested that Bob move forward and Sewer Commission all agreed
7:00 pm Alyssa Falite, 24 Mass Ave - Change of Use application-Hair Salon -Jamie Harris spoke, representing Alyssa, and is
asking for change of use for the building at corner of Mass Ave. and Pleasant Street. Barb reported thatthe building has been vacant for a
while and was office spaceearlier. They are asking for achange ofuse to putin a Hairand Nail Salon, using 30-45 gallons per dayfor
hairsolutions and thenail work will be waterless. Barb had been in contact with Fitchburg and they did not have any issues. Commission
discussed details of the business usage. Kevin Sidileau entered meeting. Heis the property managerforKim Chen who ownsthe
building. He asked what he would need to do ifhe developed more space. Barb said he would need to come to the Commission for any
change of use that increases flow to Fitchburg. Barb said she willemail Lisa to tell them the commission gave an okay.
Motion by John R. To accept the change of use for 24 Mass Ave.
Second: Joan P.
Discussion: None Approved unanimously
Vote - Unanimous
7:30pm Kristee Lussier, 324 Ugly Omelet-Kristee Lussier just took over the Ugly Omelet from Seth. Kevin Sidileau is also property
manager for that location as Kim Chen holds the lease and sublets to Ugly. Kevin also has become partner in the business at Ugly. Barb
reported that they had been trying to get a certified letter to Seth but he has removed himself from the business and she received the
certified request back. Kevin said that the business name was changed to The 324 Ugly Omelet to distinguish it from the old business.
Kristee never received the original letter but came in on the 9/7/17 to fill out the permit application and paid the $650 fee. The original invoice
had added fees of $50 for not getting permit back in time, plus$ 25/day from 7/1/17 to 9/6/17, so the fee is now $1,750 with non-compliance
fees due. Kristee found out after receiving a text copy from Richard Bursch, from Lakeview, on Aug 30the concerning the fees owed.
Commission discussed who is responsible for the debt. Kristee reported that she has repaired the grease trap since she has taken over
butshedoes nothave paperwork yetsince sheis still going through things. Kristeetookoverin June and the restaurant changed
hands on 7/1/17. Kristee has spoken to the Board of Health and they have passed the Board of Health inspection. Commission
discussed setting up a payment arrangement to spread itover until 7/1/18. Kristee asked ifthe Commission needed information about
repairs done to exterior grease trap but Commission replied they have seen work done. Barb said theywere on a schedule for
cleanings every 4 months, with acleaning due. Kristee replied she needsto find anew service and Commissiongaveher the names
of several services that other customers use. Kristee said herfatherhas been cleaning the internal grease trap and she is keeping a
log.
Motion: Joan P. To spread the payment of $ 1,750 balance from 9/30/17 to 6/30/18, with 20% forgiven at the end if all
payments are made on time.
Discussion: None
RECEIVED & FILED
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Joe Anderson(Chair who arrived late, took over control of meeting.
FEB 2E 2018
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
LUNENBURG TOWN
PUBLIC COMMENT-none
CLERN OFFICE
CURRENT BUSINESS
380 Electric Ave. Car Wash privilege fee update - Commission discussed emails from counsel regarding options for the privilege
fee and promises made to Proctors. Joan was not in favor of waiving the entire privilege fee, but is appalled that the town would make
promises that were not kept when it had more funds. Commission discussed what losses the applicant may have been incurred because
the town did not follow through on promises. Carl asked if this hadbeen discussed and voted on in the past. Jack said itwas discussed
===PAGE 2===
That the Commission tell counsel that we will not modify the privilege fee but wish to pursue investigating the promises made to
make it right and come up with a separate agreement from the privilege fee to reimburse the applicant. In addition, we request
that the applicant and DPW to separately come up with lists, without consulting one another, from their memories of what was
promised and not done, so the Commission can review the list to be used to determine the value and pursue with counsel how to
go about reimbursing the applicant. Discussion - none
Vote: Unanimous
Systems status - Inflow dish work summary- Jack asked that if anyone has any questions for Pat, let Barb know and Jack will pass
them to Pat. Carlasked about the replaced manhole locations on Mass Ave. Jack said this was not important but reminded all that $
70,000 plus was saved with the State's work on 2A. I/IScope of work Jack asked to funnel questions for Pat through Barb to him. He
handedoutthereportand clarified that Tasklinvolves manhole rehabilitation and Task Il entails Sewer rehabilitation and replacement.
Jack reviewed details of work to be done and costs for both tasks. Commission discussed the procurement process. DEP I/l report- is
promised in early November. Pump station - calibration - will begin on 9/14. Pump stations contractor discussion - monthly reports,
meetings w/SWSS-Barb said thatthey are waiting for agreementon whatis expected for the monthly reports. Jack would like monthly
reports to document what is being done. All agreed that Commission will send questions to Jack through Barb and Jack will contact SWSS.
Maintenance Plan-Commission discussed what would be involved and have itpossibly outsourced. All agreed to table the maintenance
plan untileveryonecan review the Charter. Grease Trap Regulation Compliance-Ugly Omeletwas already addressed, Dragonfly
Garden Café- owner called 9/6 and will submit the application and fee in next couple days. 1st Tuesday report-everyone is all set.
Billing Outsourcing-Barb is still doing billing which is very time consuming. Carl said the Water District is willing to sit in a meeting with
Northern Data to discuss biling options. Topic will stay on future agendas.
Minutes:
Motion: Carl L.
To approve sewer commission minutes of 8/1/17
Discussion: none
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Motion: CarlL. Second: John R.
To approve sewer commission minutes of 8/22/17
Discussion: John brought up point that even though Commission is not a precedent setting board, that we have to be careful in
wording. Vote: Unanimous
Motion: Joan P.
To approve sewer commission minutes of 8/29/17
Discussion: none
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Invoices-Koppeiman & Paige-$ 493 for privilege fees, 380 Electric and Highfield village consults in July. Business Manager Report - Carl
asked about Crossroads update. Barb said that the violations were resolved and now the fees have stopped at $5,800. Barb got a
request from Fitchburg to come to their meeting to discuss CWMP along with Westminster. Barb also said Paul Casey, principal of Flow
Assessments, wants to come to next meeting to explain process and answer questions. Minutes clerk was posted and we have one
applicant, Jane Ranley, who is our current Tax Work offperson and Barb would like to pursue her as clerk, but needs to wait until 9/15/17.
Motion: Carl L.
To let Barb move forward on hiring based on herjudgement on 9/15/17
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
Town Attorney Office Hours on 9/25 and all encouraged to go. Barb suggested discussing Crossroads with counsel and all agreed.
===PAGE 3===
Next meetings-Sept. 26 -Town Hail, Oct. 10 -DPW
Respectfully submitted
bane Ranley, Board Clerk
