===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
indirect costs. Also, Carl and Barb attended a meeting with Karen and Heather to discuss our proposed articles,
originally numbering 7. At this meeting, Heather recommended that we include our stabilization account
transfers into the main general budget warrant article as the $745,251 includes $14,520 for I/l stabilization and
$10,285 for Reserve Capacity stabilization. John Reynolds made a motion to accept the General Budget
Article as written; Joe Anderson seconded; all voted in favor; motion approved.
Barb read the Reserve Capacity Article: To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, a
sum of money into the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.
We will leave this as "a sum of money" because we may collect more upon a connection request before Town
Meeting. At a minimum it will be $2,879.80. We have removed the I/l Stabilization transfer request as we hope
to have used these funds before year-end. Carl noted that if, before Town Meeting, we learn that payment to
Fitchburg is imminent, we would not make this transfer. John Reynolds made a motion to accept the
Reserve Capacity Article as written; Joe Anderson seconded; all voted in favor; motion approved. Barb
read the Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund Article: To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to General
Laws Chapter 40, §5B, to create a Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund and further to transfer from Sewer
Enterprise retained earnings a sum of money into the Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any
other action relative thereto. This has been revised after meeting with Heather and we will leave it as 'a sum
of money', but for now it is for 3% of revenue. Only other consideration is the $15,000 capital line item of the
current year budget that is not expected to be used for capital expense, but may be needed for other expense.
If, as we get closer to Town Meeting and it does not look like it would be needed, Commission would discuss
and agree adding the $15,000 to the current $26,500 amount. John Reynolds made a motion to approve the
Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund Article as written; Joe Anderson seconded; all voted in favor; motion
approved. Barb read the Municipal Charges Lien Article: To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to MGL C.
40 § 58, to impose a "municipal charges lien" on real property for unpaid, Sewer Connection fees,
Sewer Reserve Capacity fees, Sewer Re-connection fees and Sewer Grease Trap permit fees owed the
Town, in the manner provided for by MGL C. 40, §58, which lien may include any related charges,
penalties, or fees, including interest relating to the unpaid fees, and all costs to record said lien(s) in the
appropriate Registry of Deeds; or take any other action relative thereto. John suggested that we have a
copy of this section of Chapter 40 as a handout at Town Meeting. John Reynolds made a motion to accept
the Municipal Charges Lien Article as written; Joe Anderson seconded; all voted in favor; motion
approved.
Budget Discussion: FY17 Budget : Barb provided a 5 page handout for the YTD Budget discussion. As far as
/l costs, the project tund balance is currently at $44,805, with proposed usage of $7100 already committed, and
Jack's proposal for an additional amount of $36,000, leaving balance of $1700 in project funds. Barb reviewed
potential year-end deficits in the Sewer Budget with Leominster and Fitchburg usage of $34,396 and connection
fees of $9250. Carl pointed out that with increase connections comes increased revenue. Commission
discussed the enterprise fund process and that even with increased revenues, we should not spend more than
expenses budgeted, but if need be, we can go to Town Meeting to request transfer to cover prior fiscal year
expenditures. Discussion followed on remaining Purchase of Service balance of $35,542, which is the balance
after contract commitments. Barb provided the YTD budget for Commission review. Commission reviewed
capital line item monies available and that we have $63k available if need be, although we are not anticipating
the $57k from Highfield either, so we need to be careful. No action at this point but time to be watchful in closing
out the year. Barb summed up that potential deficit of $49k in FY17 can be covered by balances in Purchase of
Service of $35k and Capital of $15k. FY18 Budget: The projected cost for Leominster could be $270k, and
only $250k was budgeted. Fitchburg usage is of more concern. We have budgeted $127k, and based on
percentage of increase could be $156k. At this point, Carl does not want to adjust budget, but since it is tighter
than we'd like it to be, we need to keep an eye on it and possibly do something at Special Town Meeting.
Discussion went back to the l/l and whether the generator costs should come out of Operations Infrastructure or
project fund. Carl would prefer all I/l come out of project funds. We have $44,805.35 in project funds for use on
C: \Users\blefebvre\Documents\SEWER\MEETINGS\MINUTES\FY17 MINUTES TO-DO'S\040417 meeting folder -resched of 032817 mtg\04-04-2017
Sewer Commission Minutes mr-ci-bl clean.docx
===PAGE 2===
that. Per the report in 2011 there was no infiltration problem; what happened between now and then? Issues
Update-Carl would like an update on Jack's FOG related visits of restaurant establishments.
System Maintenance Planning: John asked if manhole inspection report is saying that through their new
analysis, if we make the recommended repairs we will be saving 871,000 gallons (50% of what they believe is
going into the manholes). They projected how much water is going into the manhole. When making repairs, the
state guideline is that you only count on saving half of it would be approximately 7% of the excess water flowing
out; that is not significant. The manholes are not the problem. We need to look at the manhole repairs from a
different point of view; not from the saving I/l point of view. The structural issues should be the priority, not the
ones that have higher I/l. I/l is not a justification for fixing manholes.
Irrigation Meter Policy/Upgrade: John spoke with Mark Bursch, Chairman of the Lunenburg Water District. He
said the Water Dept. suggested that if we go with a system to read the meters, that we go with the newest
technology available. They are also heading in that direction. The technology would allow Barb to read the
meters from her office. Possibly sharing the cost of the software or some aspect can be discussed; but they do
not want to be responsible for the irrigation meters. John will ask Scott Fitzgerald (Stiles Company, Inc.) to
attend a future meeting to discuss the new technology; the Water Dept. will also be invited.
Carl provided the rolling averages on the Flow to Bill Usage Comparisons Report; $173K is what it would
have cost if we had to pay for the water going out; 6.7% represents the manhole contribution based on the
report.
Billing Outsource Investigation: Commission discussed the possibility of holding a workshop to understand
the billing process. We need to create a list of what steps are done at billing and what is not, and the reasoning;
Barb will prepare a list of the steps. John noted that the cost of outsourcing may be more than the time
saved. The goal is to try to free up more time for Barb. More discussion is needed.
Town Caucus: At Caucus, Joan was nominated. We will have a write-in campaign for Joe. Carl will have labels
done up for the ballots. Seven or nine write-ins are needed. There are 2 openings for 3 years, 1 for 1 year, so
we still need a candidate for one year.
Minutes Help: Melanie Rich was welcomed as the new Minutes Clerk. Personnel Committee finally approved
the position at their March 16 meeting.
Business Manager Report: Minutes-None for review. Invoices for Kopelman & Paige and City of Fitchburg
were approved. Permits to Connect-51 Joslin Street; Lt 35 at Meadow Woods reconnect. Lunenburg Water
has proposed a Site Plan Approval before the Planning Board for a new office at 496 Mass Avenue; Public
Hearing is 4/24. Grease Trap Compliance Issues-all March submittals in. John questioned the 3/6/17
Interceptor Service Report for Asian Imperial and that it is a two-chamber system. The 2"° chamber is not in
violation. Ugly Omelet emailed and said he is working with Wind River Environmental and needs more time:
Joan motioned to extend the deadline for Ugly Omelet until 4/17 from 4/5; John 2nd, all in favor. March
logs were received from Kabobelicious, but they still owe the $50 initial non-compliance fee, $525 for non-
compliance and the March & April payments of $550. The recourse we have is going to court or not issuing a
victualer license. John said Lunenburg's regulations require monthly reporting on grease traps; he has not
found another town or city that has that requirement. Monthly logs are required and they must be available upon
inspection. He would not change the interceptor reporting, only the grease trap reporting. More discussion is
needed. Barb received a request for waiver from Conrad's today. There was brief discussion as to whether the
Commission could keep their own counsel. Barb will check with the TM. Carl suggested experience with sewer
regulation could be included in the Selectmen's process with the remaining four candidates; they will be
===PAGE 3===
Respectiully submitted,
WRichbal
elanie Rich, Minutes
