===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
380 Electric Ave, - Commission reviewed casement punch list from wan proctor - List entailed minised cleanup tor sewer
easement previously done, involving 12-15 mature hardwood trees that were cut, removed but not replaced and 4,000-5,000 sq. feet of
area that was not reclaimed with loam and seed. Jack passed out a list that he had put together, which included 4,000 sq. feet, with 3"
loam (75-100 yds.), 10-15 large trees@$500, 10 - 15 small trees@$200, $50 each for the landscaping support, bulldozing, with an
estimate of $11,220 - $16,520 and average of $ 13,870. He did not put in a value for the fencing, since fencing and arborvitae were
already installed by the owner. Troy reported that he did some research and came up with about the same value. He felt that Jack's
figures were very reasonable. John also spoke to his sons that have a landscape business and came up with about the same
amount. Carl asked if they could look at the plan to see where the 15 trees and land involved are and questioned taking $7,500
from sewer customers for this issue. No plan or information was provided. Troy added that since the people involved in making this deal
are no longer alive, that the Commission should go with the lists of the DPW director and applicants. Commission reviewed the plans,
discussed the validity of items on the list and the location of the trees and land seeded. Commission reviewed the list and will discuss
any questions on it at the next meeting
DPW/Systems update- Jack read an update from Pat Cotton, developing a quote for the sewer and manhole pipeline rehab, including
those with most infiltration as identified in the June manhole inspection, and including the manholes on Kirby Ave needing rehab. He plans
on having his figures by the end of next week - 10/13. Jack met with Heather, the town manager and she said the insurance packet
needs to be added and the bids needed to be put in the Central Register and COMMBUYS which will take 2 weeks. John Street was
taken out to be managed by the DPW and needs 3 bids for excavating, which the DPW Director felt would be much less than
$10,000. He is finalizing the summary from the drawdowns and field measurements for pump station calibration and should have that
also by 10/13. Carl questioned why the work was being done even though the Commission had not taken a vote to spend the proposed $
7,000 of pipe work, to be done by Weston and Sampson. Commission discussed the reports on 10 manholes needing work, with 1 being on
Kirby Ave. Cari questioned about the pipe work, camera work and inflow isolation in the Whalom area. Joe clarified that the $ 7,000
entailed $3,500 for rehab of 10 worst manholes and $3,500 for pipework. Carl asked for clarification of what the pipework entailed and if it
would address the unknown 1440gpd found on Elizabeth St. Jack said the breakdown will be in the scope of work. Jack will ask Pat about
the work on Elizabeth St and Burke St.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Joe A.
To authorize the $3,500 for the manhole Task 1 of the Weston & Sampson proposal.
Discussion: none
Vote: Unanimous
2A meter Relocation- Jack reported that SWSS and Weston & Sampson opinions are that it does not need to be put on the deck
and felt it was better to leave it in the existing manhole. Commission decided to table discussion to the next meeting. Pump stations
- Barb reported that the list was sent to Jill but she has not received the monthly report. It will be put on agenda for 10/10 meeting.
BOS Workshop with Boards and Commission October 10 discussion- same night as next meeting. Carl said that the workshop
was to work on getting more volunteers and to improve communications. Joe said he would respond, pointing out the problem that not
everyone got notification and also that Commission has an important meeting that night, so will be unable to attend.
Cross Roads Process Review for Potential Revocation of Permit to Discharge - Commission discussed the problem of closing 2
restaurants, if the permit is revoked because the landiord has not paid. The option of putting a lien on the building was also discussed and
decided to ask town counsel for advice on the process. Issue will be added to next meeting agenda.
Fitchburg WMP meeting discussion - Barb reported she and Carl went today and Fitchburg has all the information they need.
Next year there will be a rate increase, which is equal to the Lunenburg rate.
Privilege fee Assessments - 51 Joslin St. - Barb reported that the owner was told that if he subdivided his property, there would
be an assessment. He did subdivide and a house has been built.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Carl L.
To assess privilege fee on 51 Joslin St. according to the Sewer Assessment bylaw.
Discussion: none
Vote: Unanimous
===PAGE 2===
$3,500 per year for the billing. A daytime meeting will be setup with April, Barb and anyone else interested. A meeting with Northern Data
will also be set up.
Minutes taker - Barb reported that Jane Ranley's appointment is before Selectmen for approval and she should be able to start this week.
Future agenda member inputs: Commission will discuss moving the 10/31 meeting to 10/24 at the next meeting.
Motion to Adjourn: Troy D
Discussion: none
Meeting adjourned at 7:56 pm.
Next meetings- 10/10/17 - -6:30pm, DPW, 520 Chase Rd., 10/31 Town Hall, 11/14, DPW
Respectively submitted,
Tane h.
Jane Ranley
paney
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
RECEIVED & FILED
FED 2 C 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
