===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Passios kitchen rental request - John Londa (director of facilities for school department & manager for the Passios building).
Two town residents have approached them about using the kitchen at Passios for commercial use and he needs to determine
any costs involved. The kitchen has 2 grease traps -a 40 lb. trap for the dishwasher and 14 ib. trap for pot sink-that were
cleaned 6/22/12 when the kitchen was closed. There is one vendor who wants to use the kitchen 3 - 15 hours/ week to bake 1-
3 cakes/week- using the range, small oven, pizza oven, pot sinks, storage and counter space, but will not use the dishwasher.
They will have some oils used that will go down the sink while cleaning pots & pans. The second vendor will use just the range
and pot sink, although he is not sure of exact nature of use but thought it involved making jam. The dishwasher & grease trap
will not be used but the pot sink trap would be cleaned once a year, scheduling the first one in December 2018. If needed, it
would be cleaned more often. Carl asked what the 2nd business is and would they use kitchen same time? John L. said he is
still waiting for info from 2nd applicant, but that the vendors will use the kitchen at different times. John R. inquired about the
grease trap regulations and Carl replied that the regulations require inspections weekly, with cleaning monthly. Discussion
followed about the 25% rule, and waivers for minimal use of grease traps. John L. has data on grease trap inspections done in
the past at Passios and that currently the school does 3 cleanings/year at a cost of $ 125 each. Troy said that the Commission
wants to be pro-business but the concern is to make sure grease does not get into sewer system. Carl asked if the dishwasher
could be disabled and if regular inspections could be done to get an idea of use to build history. Troy clarified that inspections
can be done by the business and report findings to Barb via email, phone, or fax it. Joan read in Appendix under grease trap
regulations, section K that a business could ask for a waiver if use was going to be minimal as long as they have the monthly
inspection data. John L. said he can do the inspections and would use the same company for cleaning that the schools use
Joan said that the Permit to Discharge Fee is $150 annually, so each vendor could pay $ 75. Troy inquired if the Passios would
be exempt of fees and Carl replied that usually the town is exempt but this would be a commercial usage in a town building.
Joan reiterated that it is very important that vendors need to be punctual with reports on inspections & cleaning or fee goes up
to $350/year plus fees. Carl questioned why the lessors are not getting the permits and paying the fees as is common with
other leased food establishments in Town. John L. stated that his next step is to go back to the applicants to clarify things to
make sure it is the applicants-not the town-that is carrying the burden of cost.
DPW/Systems update- Weston & Sampson-Task 1 RFP review - Carl reported that Task 1 is underway but we were still
waiting for the scope of services bid package from Weston & Sampson for the repair work. Carl will ask Barb or Jack to follow
up. John R. wanted to know what they were waiting for and Carl clarified that they are waiting for the bid package so it can be
sent out for sealed bids. Joan found an email from Jack Rodriquenz that he had met with the town manager to prioritize tasks
and goals in regard to the bid package and he would be meeting Weston and Sampson on Nov. 2nd at 7:30am to discuss task 1
goals. Troy also found an email from Patrick Cotton, W & S, that he will be seeking Sewer Commission approval regarding a
response to the Task 2 Proposal from Weston and Sampson. Joan suggested that this be added to the agenda. SWSS
update - Joan received an email on preventive maintenance, but did not see information on the spare parts. Joan had
previously asked Barb if she had any response, and she did not. Barb sent the request to them but had no reply.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
That the Sewer Commission have Barb follow to get an update from SWSS on the spare parts up within a week.
Discussion: Carl wanted to clarify that it is ok for Commission to ask Barb to get information unless it becomes a lot
of work. Also, the protocol is still to have 1 contact, which is Jack but it is ok to have Barb ask for follow up
information.
Vote: Unanimous
I/l Reduction Planning - Weston & Sampson-Task 2 scope of services review - Carl asked Jack for follow up information
and had expressed concern why the whole line would need to be redone, in addition to fixing the 2 identified spots. Also he
===PAGE 2===
Outsourcing updates - There have been 2 meetings on investigating billing outsourcing. First meeting was with April,
Lunenburg Water District administrator, regarding their billing company, Northern Data. Carl thanked Fran and the Water
District for their time and help. Second meeting was with a representative from Northern Data, and attended by Carl, Barb, Troy
and Steve from IT. Northern Data has responded with 4 questions about collections. Barb had suggested the next step is to
meet with the town manager. Troy thought it was good that Northern Data can bill and collect payments electronically. Grease
Trap Regulation Compliance - Crossroads -They are in compliance but issue is they have a substantial overdue fee.
Counsel has been asked for guidance about whether the Commission should pull the permit or attach a lien. Counsel replied
that either or both could be done. Commission discussed the options.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: John R.
To have Barb notify Crossroads of a hearing before the Sewer Commission regarding non-compliance fees and
alternative actions that we may or may not take at that meeting. Barb will send a copy of the draft letter to each
Commissioner.
Discussion: None
Vote: Unanimous
Commission will let Barb know they would like to schedule the hearing Dec. 5th, with the letter going out 2 weeks before.
Commitment to Assessors of Privilege Fees FY18- 51 Joslin St, 357 Electric Ave - previously voted on and Barb just
needed the signatures to forward to the Assessor's office. November 21 Economic Development workshop -Carl will attend
and will ask Joe if he can. Troy thought it had been cancelled for the 21st, so Carl will check on that. Highfield Village status
- They have the Sewer Commission inputs, except for some of Troy's. They had questions that Barb is working on with
Fitchburg related to purchasing capacity. Minutes - Will be deferred to next meeting. Invoices - KP law $ 306 for 1.8 hrs. for
Highfield, Fitchburg monthly billing - $ 12,843. Rescheduled 11/28 meeting as it is the same night as Town Meeting.
Reschedule meeting to December 5.
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Discuss communications between Commissioners & contractors/DPW;
Update from SWSS on replacement/spare parts; 380 Electric Ave. -Update from counsel; Update from DPW/Jack and/or
Weston & Sampson on Task 1 from their Nov 2nd meeting; Task 2- Carl will email a list of information to the Commissioners
that he needs so it can be discussed at the next meeting and further steps to take with Weston & Sampson; Discuss the draft
letter and what we will be doing at the 12/5/17 meeting with Crossroads and discuss options. Minutes for 10/10; Troy would
like to have policy discussions once a month or at a workshop. Topics would be economic development, privilege fees, working
with land use department, what items Barb can do. No public comment.
Motion to Adjourn: John R.
Adjourned at 7:59pm
Second: Troy
D..
Next meetings- Nov. 14 at 6:30pm - DPW; 12/5, DPW; 11/21 - Economic Development workshop; 11/28 Town Meeting
Respectively submittec
Lone
tail
Jahe Ranley
7
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
