===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
year terms). There is a one-year term open with no candidates.
The Lion's Club is having a meat bingo on April 28' at the Eastwood Club (Townsend Street, Fitchburg); the
entry fee is $20.
PUBLIC COMMENT - None tonight.
CURRENT BUSINESS
/ Removal Planning (Scope of work FY17/18, timing, bid process) - Carl said they are working hard to try and
firm up the inflow/infiltration reduction plan. The hope was to finalize it tonight, but Jack Rodriquenz and the
Town Manager were unable to attend. The Town Manager has met with Jack to better understand the scope of
the project. The Commission asked that the Town Manager give us guidance on the procurement process. She
said the value of what we are trying to do will be approximately $50K and would have to go through the bid
process; because of that it will not be done this spring. Breaking up the project to complete two tasks (the TV
cameras for a part of Whalom [1,000 feet], and the meter on the stick) was discussed; we need to find out if that
is allowed by the procurement regulations. Getting these two tests done when the water level is high is critical.
Carl said the Commission could consider taking a vote to authorize these two tasks in the event the Town
Manager says it is allowed. Joan commented that if we do this separately, we do it in a way that makes
everyone feel included as a team and does not cause further disconnect; John agreed. The Town Manager
would have to agree and we would have to rely on Jack's input as to whether it makes sense. There was some
discussion regarding emails and some confusion as to the timing and/or content. It was recommended that if
anyone has concerns, they first review them again. Carl clarified that if the Chair or any member feels it
necessary to send an email, they should be free to do that; they do not have to check with the other members
unless they are representing the group. A motion was made by Joan Pease, seconded by John Reynolds
I move that the Commission authorize operations, pending
confirmation of the Chief Procurement Officer that this does not violate procurement rules, to proceed
with the vendor, or vendors, of their choice with a total funding of $8,000, with two I/1 reduction activities
which include; "meter on a stick" investigation of the Whalom area to the North side of Whalom Road,
and TV cameraing of up to 1,000 linear feet, to be defined by the DPW Director, of the Whalom Area to
the South side of Whalom Road.
DPW Operations Issues - Food Establishment Visits-No updates on Jack's visits. Pump Station Report-
We are not receiving them. Jack has instructed SWSS not to send them anymore until they are cleaned up. Joe
asked if Jack is asking them to get to the root of the cause and clean it up before coming to us? Carl does not
know. The units of measure for Leominster Road runtimes are problematic. Carl will email Jack (with the
consensus of the Commissioners) any questions/answers the Commission is looking for. He will be asked what
"cleaned up" means, what is the ETA as to when we will start receiving them again, and clarification on the
rationale. Manhole Rehab Project-The manhole work was scheduled to start on April 17" by Weston &
Sampson. John said he saw the Weston & Sampson vehicle and believes they are in the process.
System Maintenance Plan (existing and future planning actions, manhole dishes) - Carl would like as a future
agenda item "documentation". How do we document maintenance in the field? Joan said we should ask does
any record exist where we will be able to tell when maintenance has occurred on the different manholes, rather
than directing someone to produce that. Carl agreed that we should ask if there is a maintenance
record/document and discuss a plan with Jack for manhole maintenance. Carl will include this in his request for
information from Jack.
conrad s Drive-in sea rood (waiver request) - It is a seasonal restaurant; he is asking tor a waiver when he is
closed. Joe Anderson made a motion that we approve a waiver pending the logs from the last date of
cleaning after closing and that he notifies us when he opens; John Reynolds seconded; all voted in
favor; motion approved.
===PAGE 2===

