===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Rodriquenz (DPW Director) will be visiting food establishments looking for postings and logs to ensure
compliance with grease trap regulations.
APPOINTMENTS
6:30pm Pat Cotton, Weston & Sampson, Inflow/Infiltration Proposal - Mr. Cotton introduced himself;
he has been working with town since 2011. He gave a brief history of the guideline. Flow metering;
identified areas that contribute excessive i/in-done 2011; report completed fall 2011. Two areas identified
for inflow; rain water, roof leaders, etc.; identified locations with smoke testing/building inspections. The
first area-Graham Street, Whalom to electric-smoke and all buildings inspected. Sub-area-6 Leominster
Road area; Mass Ave to Sunnyhill to Lunenburg Elementary, center of town, Leominster to West Street.
Building inspections/smoke testing. Some manhole covers - some issues (open cleanout caps).
Throughout inspections - anything identified has been removed. Smoke testing fall 2011; other summer
2014 inspections 2014 & 2015. Following 2015, manhole inspections were done by another engineering
firm 2016. 2011-clay pipes identified; just not as high as smoke/inspections. Several defects identified-
manhole-cleaning and television inspection Graham Street area. Several suggestions: Inflow dish in
nanhole covers; it manhole depressed or nas holes - intlow dish installed eliminates source of intlow.
Weston Sampson has provided proposal to install as many as 40; 60-70 were recommended; 32 fit the
category for dishes. Jack brought the proposal to the Commission and it was approved. While the work is
being done, W&S will do evaluations; they will furnish and install the dishes. Pat explained smoke
testing; if properly connected it will smoke. If there is no blockage and no smoke, it could be a running
trap issue. Half of the town has been smoke tested in the dry season. Camera'ing will find cracked
pipes, look at every joint and look up at every service connection; needs to be done in the spring when
the water table is high. The highest area of infiltration was on the Graham Street/Whalom Road area
where the clay pipes are. Joan asked if there was any recommendation for standard maintenance
camera work based on the age of the clay pipes; immediately if it was never done. For the last 5 quarters
we have been tracking billing vs. flow meter; Fitchburg data is fairly consistent; Graham Street data is not
consistent, it has swings from 10% to 56%, the data needs to be reviewed. There is not a current
proposal; there is one from 2015 for cleaning, television inspection, data analysis, reporting, and
recommendations for the Graham Street area for $48,000. Pat will provide the proposal to Jack. He
talked about other ideas. Infiltration issues were also identified. They can be removed; it is not cheap but
is effective at 50% removal of infiltration. We need to fix what we know is broken but there are tradeoffs
on where to spend money. If we can identify real sources where we can remove I/l we could consider
that higher on the priority list. To re-line 20 manholes the cost would be $32K. Building inspections can
be done in the remainder of town; it would be cheaper because we have three meters. Joan felt it's a
priority to look at the old clay pipes that haven't been looked at in decades. Carl asked Pat to provide a
quote so we can prioritize with pricing. $50-$60K could be a workable number for the next fiscal year.
Pat will pull together a combination: control plan for DEP in December, will take a closer look at data on
manholes, and with the TV inspection of the pipes see what the exact footage of the pipes are clay. Pat
will provide something within 2 weeks. The town is looking at Community Compact Grant Program; the
BOS will be determining the focus; one of the best practices is under Water Resource Management
(address infiltration and inflow to reduce unintended storm and waste water in the system and the cost of
treating it). Being part of the community you have access to technical resources from the state and
access to grants. Pat also noted that there's a MIlA grant the town could get for cleaning the lines; it may
be too late as the deadline for the work is May 1. He will check on any other grant opportunities. Mr.
Cotton was thanked for coming in and reviewing the information. Regarding the Community Compact
Program, it was set up under the Governor's Office; ¾ of the 351 towns are participating. Ms. Lemieux
has been involved in Barre and brought it up to BOS; applications due by mid-February. The Water
Resource Management Best Practice fits us very well. Carl said it is already on the table for BOS
consideration. Heather sent an email to the BOS stating the positive experience she had with this
===PAGE 2===
article to avoid going back to town meeting each year. There may be an article for violation fees giving us
the ability to put liens on property; they are working with Town Counsel on the language.
Minutes Clerk Current Status/Update - We have a good candidate in line; we want to get her on board
and don't have a strong opinion whether it should be as an employee or contractor. Carl was not sure
you can contract with an individual. Heather clarified that a 3-prong test counsel referenced for
municipalities which included that if the type of work is normally performed by municipal employee, it
doesn't pass the test to be done by contractor. Heather said Town Counsel strongly stated that it should
be employee. Carl asked if billing could be outsourced; Heather will get an opinion from Town Counsel.
She explained the other 2 prongs. Moving forward Carl said outsourcing is a good way to control costs
and to get the good value for the town.
Minutes/Invoices; Action File Issues - No minutes for review. Invoices-Fitchburg $11672.19; KP Law
$663.00 approved
Business Manager Report/Updates - Grease Trap Compliance Status: Ugly Omelet has not yet
submitted repair plan per letter sent 1/17; must submit plan or $25/day fee would be retroactive to 1/17.
Barb tried to call Seth directly but was unable to reach him. Commission agreed that we need to send
letter with invoice for $25/day. Conrads and Donnellys-both accounts have submitted their $50 fee and
past due logs. Commission wants Conrads to request a waiver since he is a seasonal business so that
he does not have to continue submitting logs when the business is closed. We will send him a letter
requesting the waiver request. Crossroads-Rodenhiser is awaiting customer deposit to commence
installation. Permits to Connect: 339 Electric (Leominster Monument) with no change of use. Barb
noted that after billing is sent out, hopefully the end of this week, that she will begin work on the FY 18
Budget, Irrigation Meters and FY16 Annual Report. Also, per counsel, the letter on the Highfield
Village withdrawal was sent out by counsel on 1/30/17. We are awaiting a copy of the letter.
Discussed next meeting scheduled for February 14. Joan cannot attend. Commission proposed
meeting Thursday 2/16. Joe will check and let the Commission know if he can attend that date. Barb will
send an email when date and time is confirmed. Joan brought up that at the next meeting they need to
talk about changing regulations - Section 4 of Appendix C penalties and section 7 of Sewer Use Regs
articles 5& 6. Carl added that he wants to provide input to Jack by way of a checklist for use on his visits
to the restaurants. Jack had stated that he does not want to go into the buildings to inspect plumbing.
From his November presentation he stated he would confirm schematics, provide training, and review
regs. Also needed for the checklist is to look for the postings of the cleanings. Commission briefly
reviewed Carl's list from September. Carl offered to clean up list and provide an updated one for the next
meeting.
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Carl has added this topic on our agendas since there is
no current vehicle to get inputs from the Commissioners for the next meeting agenda. Joan restated that
she wants the review of the penalty rules on the next agenda. There are 7 pages that each
Commissioners needs to review. She also added that the 1s' Tuesday report needs to be reviewed at the
Commission's second Tuesday of the month meeting. Kabobelicous was discussed and whether she is
making her payments. So far, we have received December and January payments. She did mention to
Barb that she wanted to come before the Commission but Barb has not heard any more. Maybe there will
be an update when she comes in to pay the February installment. Manhole repair was discussed and
whether Jack has moved forward on it either in-house or with outside source. Barb will check with Jack.
Commission discussed whether anyone was keeping record of manhole repairs performed. The list of
manholes that Wright Pierce provided could be used to set up a database and keep it updated with
===PAGE 3===
lelanie Rich, Minutes Cler
