===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
Minutes of 10/10/17 Sewer Commission meeting - DPW conference room -- 520 Chase Road
Attendees: Chair, Joe Anderson, Vice-Chair, Carl Luck, Clerk, Joan Pease, Members, Troy Daniels, John Reynolds,
Business Manager, Barb Lefebvre
Guests: Bruce & Pam Millette, Deb Trumbull, John Mohamed
NOV 20 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLARA OFFICE
Called to order at 6:38 pm by Cari, in Joe's absence. Roll call attendance taken with John, Joan, Troy and Carl present.
APPOINTMENTS:
6:30pm- Bruce & Pam Millette, 189 Cross Rd Sewer Extension -- The Millettes handed out GIS printouts showing their property and seweron
Cross Road. The property is large enough to potentially sell some off, but they didn't know if sewer connection would be possible. It was confirmed
that the property is not in the Sewer Service Area (SSA) and that it would take a vote at Town Meeting to expand the SSA. The
Commission discussedthe SC's developmentpolicy. The Millettes stated that theirpropertywill notperc and they hadto install atighttankfor
theirhouse severalyears ago. Carl saidthe process is thatifthey can show itcannot perc and thereis no otherinnovative answer at any location
on the current lot, then sewerwouldbe an answer. itwas suggested that the Millettes could get copy of perc test done 12 years ago and check with
Board of Health to see if still valid. twas noted that in a previous case that the SA was extended, Whalom Dive-in, the Sewer Commission witnessed the perk testing. The
Northfield case was also mentioned, here the SSA was not extended. Joan would want to see a map ofhowthe land would be divided and show it cannot be
serviced by a septic system. Commission advised that when Millettes obtain all documentation and map of possible lot division, the Sewer
Commission woul review the request but that they can also go directly to Town meeting with extension request but it would probably be better if the Sewer
Commission supported the change.
7:00pm- Paul Patrick Casey, Flow Assessment - couldn't attend due to illness but can be at next meeting.
7:06pm - Joe Anderson arrived and took over chairing the meeting.
7:30pm-SWSS Quarterly update-Deb Trumbull & John Mohamed-- Deb provided handout ofadditionalwork done during September 2017.
John R. asked about the mice problem and John M. said panel was repaired and covered. Carl asked about having spare pumps and other parts on
hand as was proposed in July. John M. will obtain pricing on spareparts. Johnreported theywillbecleaningthe meter on Graham Street.
Joanreadlistofactionitems from 6/27/17 and askedforupdates. Debreported Leominster Roadoutages corrected, block heaterwasreplaced
and Mass 1 needs 2 seals anda probe. Also, they will need to obtain spare Flygtpumps, spare seals, and transducers. Joan asked SWSS to get
her astatus on all spare parts, prices & when available. Deb (SWSS) will get that to herby end of week. Carl asked for a schedule/checklist of
preventive maintenance. SWSS will do that. Commission asked about quarterly flow assessments at each meterand noted that the wording in the
contract is vague concerning quarterly checks of flowmeterdata. Barbwill add sending the quarterly flow reports to SWSSto her quarterly
process. John. meets with Jack R. weekly andgets updates on work/maintenance. Joewill askJackforupdates onwork. Deb saidtheywant
to bethorough in maintenance-whetherspecifiedin contractornot.
Announcements: Barb introduced Jane Ranley as new Minutes Clerk, noting her appointment was ratified by Selectmen on 10/3/17.
Joe noted we declined to attend the 10/10 BOSworkshop on Boards and commissions being held tonight. Troy said thatthe workshopwas
rescheduled. November 14th workshop on Economic Development was rescheduled to November 21. Joe asked for workshop to be added to
next agenda to determine who will attend from the Commission.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
DPWSystems update-Weston& Sampson Scope - Barbhanded out Jack'sforwarded email from PatCotton. Carlwants itmadeciearto Jack
and Patthat Commission wantto see the RFQ before they gooutforquote. Only the manhole work hasbeen approved by the Commissionto
proceed. Pat still needs to provide an updated scope for Task 2 before proceeding. Barb will follow up with Jack. 380 Electric Ave. CarWash
easement discussion-Joe updated Joan about discussion from the 10/3 meeting -no votes taken. Troy and Jack did research on unit cost. Joan
suggested the Commission take a vote and settle it. Commission discussed whether we are being asked to compensate applicant for work that
wasn't done orwork that was already done at the owners expense, and whether the amount asked for is correct. Joan suggests that we come up with a figure
that is fair and be done. Troy recalled at the meeting with lawyer that Dan paid for seeding done and that as long as town counsel feels it is
documented well, he would be comfortable with going with Jack's estimate. John said he came up with same number as Jack's estimate. Joan
asked what the total figure was asked for, Amount is $13,870. Commission discussed process and reimbursing Dan forthe amount, making sure it is
well documented and whether the decision had to go before the BOS.
Second: Troy D.
Thatthe Sewer Commission agreed to tell town attorney thatthe Commission would like to reimburse Dan Proctor$13,870, basedon
documentation provided and whether any additional documentation is required, and further interviews of town employees. Do we have.
sufficient authority on ourown ordoes itneedto go to the Board of Selectman?
Discussion: None
Troy, Joan, John-yes, Joe, Carl-no.
Motion passed 3-2
Barb asked that the Commission review the motion of 9/12 that they'd received and needs to be finalized. Joan had no memory of saying that we
would close discussion on modifying the privilege fee. All present agreed that we were not going to modify the privilege fee based on the revised
usage figure. Discussion followed on whether or not we could revisit the privilege fee amount after the first year's usage is known. Troy and Carl
haddifferentopinions on what counsel said during office hours. Joe asked both Troyand Carltoreach outto counsel. Troy suggestedwehave
counsel attend a meeting. Joe clarified that this motion of 9/12 that we are discussing was before the meeting that Troy and Carl had with counsel
===PAGE 2===
on 9/25. John found it interesting that the privilege fee could be based on the usage after the first full year. Thatis additional info that he would have
liked to have before voting on the previous motion to reimburse $13,870. Joe clarified the motion to be approved. Troy was not there so he cannot
weighin. Barb read the current draft aloud: "motion that the Commission tell counsel that we will not modify the privilege fee but wish to pursue
investigating the promises made to make it right and come up with a separate agreementfrom the privilege fee to reimburse the applicant. In
addition, we request that the applicant and DPW to separately come up with lists, without consulting one another, from their memories of what was
promised and not done, so the Commission can review the list to be used to determine the value and pursue with counsel howto go about
reimbursing the applicant. John second. Voteunanimous." Okayedwithall. Billing Outsourcing nextsteps-there is a meeting 10/15 at 10amat
waterdept, Barb, Troy & Carl will meet with April at Water District. Irrigation Meter Change - tabied. Grease Trap Regulation Compliance-
Crossroads next steps - Barb reported that Counsel had responded via email but the Commission wanted time to review. Tabled to next meeting.
1s Tuesday report-all compliant. Commissioner's email of 8/12/17 - Troy wanted it stated in the minutes that he objected about how the
Commission does contracts, does not agree with the SWSS contract or its order precedence and that there was another document tacked on to that
contractwhich should have changed the orderofprecedence. No further discussion. Q1 Demand notices were sent out. Ifthey had prioryear
delinquencies, there was an insert with the demand notices warning them that if it remained unpaid, it would go on their next tax bill. Commitment
to Assessors of Privilege Fees FY 18 - 15 Oak Ave, 120 West St. - Barb reported that the Assessors have to sign off on what is put in
the commitmentfortaxes. Wehave 2 sofar, we'llhave 2 more. Order 11 isfor 15 OakAve. Order12isfor120West. This will allow the
Assessors to putthe privilege fees on the tax bills. Theywere signed by board members. Meeting reschedule discussion-Joan unableto getto
rescheduled meetings due to family issues. Nextmeetingwill be on the 31s! (Halloween) as we have a quorum. All can meet except Barb & Joe.
Specialtown meeting warrant discussion- November 28", Commission has no warrantissues to introduce. Thatis also a meeting night.
PACC may notbe able to televise our meeting due to town meeting. Minutes-none. Commission signed offon invoices-Fitchburg
$12,150.40, KPLaw$119. In response to the inquiry, Barb emailed counsel on Highfield that the Commission wanted them to proceed and will
check with KP Law on the status.
Business Manager Report- Jane Ranleyis ournew minute taker, here tonight. Welcome Jane. Public hearing forthe Asian 5 Electricis on
10/23/17 regarding public parking lot and addition. Town Code book is now online under General By-laws. Joan asked if Commission meeting
recordings could be put on the cloud. Barb will talk to IT and also noted that recordings are always available on the public drive here at the DPW,
even if she is not in. Town Attorney Office hours will be Oct 16 3-7pm, Oct 302-6pm. Troy voiced concerns about members' different
interpretations from these meetings and how it is communicated back to the full Commission. Joe agreed - with no quorum, no minutes. Joan
reaffirmed that once the Commission has voted to proceed one way that people shouldn't go speak to counsel with their own agenda.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Joe wants to add an agenda item for first November meeting to discuss how to approach individual
meetings with town counsel. Can reminded the Commission that they would be meeting with April and also with Northern Data to discuss, possibly
10/17 or10/18. Troywants to be sure thatno pricing will be discussed, Carlagreed that itwas justtotalkaboutscopeofwork. Notes will betaken
and summary provided at the next meeting.
Public Comment - no.
Motion to adjourn: John Reynolds
Second: Troy D
Adjournedat 8:46pm
Vote -- Unanimous
Next meetings- Oct. 31 at 6:30-Town Hail; 11/14, DPW; 11/21-Economic Developmentworkshop; 11/28 Town Meeting and also Regular meeting at
Town Hall.
ane Ranley, Board Clerk
Handouts - Millettes -GIS Printouts
SWSS - September Work Update
