===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of Sewer Commission Meeting and Workshop - June 20, 2017 - DPW, 520 Chase Road
Attendees: Carl Luck (Chair), John Reynolds (vice-Chair), Joan Pease, Joe Anderson, Troy Danieis, Barb
Lefebvre (Business Manager)
Guests: Dave Rodgers (Highland St.)
Called to order at 6:43pm
Charter Review Workshop: Roles & Responsibilities of the Commission and Chair
I he Commission began by outlining the goal of the workshop and what should be included in the
discussion. The Commission then talked about the reasons for having the meeting and agreed that the
starting point should be interpretation of the charter which they proceeded to go through and discuss.
Joan handed out an organizational chart for Commission to review. John Reynolds arrived at 6:57pm.
Dave Rogers commented that it makes no good common sense on how the Town is set up. He
questioned why the Sewer Commission isn't an autonomous group. He also questioned where the
problem lies. The Commission acknowledged and addressed his concerns. The Sewer Commission
then began to discuss concerns about not being able to complete all their responsibilities because it is
causing conflict and also that bounds and responsibilities may be being overstepped. They went on to
discuss ways to resolve tension and avoid conflict in the future. The Commission decided to have a
meeting with Jack Rodriquenz and Heather Lemieux and the Commission. Discussion of who would
determine the definition of 'Day-to-day' ensued. Troy Daniels left at 8:02pm. It was suggested that a
member of the Board of Selectmen be invited along with Rob Bowen who also was a Selectman and
worked on the Charter should also be invited. It was determined that Jamie Toale would be invited as a
representative of the Selectmen as he'd be the more objective than Bob or Phyllis. The group could meet
to work on resolving the conflict while still fulfilling responsibilities. Potential dates were discussed and the
dates of 8/1 and 8/8 will be provided to the invitees. Joe was asked to facilitate the meeting.
380 Electric Ave: update on legal question and process regarding fee assessment
There will be an update from counsel for the 7/11 meeting. Discussion went on to having a point person
to interact with Barb L and Counsel to coordinate this specific activity. Troy D. will be asked if he would be
interested in doing this. The Commission went on to discuss the issue of this pump station, the possibility
of future issues and the Commission's policy of neutrality on development.
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 8:33pm
Discussion: None
Second: Joe A
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully Submitted,
mit Letto
emily Lehta
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 17 2017
LAVENBURGTOWN
CLERK OFFICE
