===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
associated with the MassAve. improvementwas 39,000gpd ofpeakinflowthatwasremoved. Patwilisendalistto JackR. Inregardstothel/l
report, flow isolation and TV inspections were done in the spring. Two lines on Elizabeth Street have leaks and will need remediation. The drop
connection at 44 John St. will need pipeline repair, as well as manhole repair needed at Kirby Ave./Electric Ave. They won't be doing all repairs at
once recommend working on smoke testing for the rest of the town. Manholes are from the previous report. Pat reviewed the l/l control plan proposal for
the State in accordance with DEP guidelines. The proposal was given to Jack in agreement for developing the plan for submittal in accordance with
the DEP regs. The proposal includes summary of /I reports forlast 15 years, town's l/l activities for past 5-10 years, summary of any SO eventin
last 10 years and a summary of future plan. It was noticed that the town regs do not have the 4:1 /1 removal policy for connections for design flows
that exceed 15,000gpd. Ifa large apartment complex comes to town in future, with greaterthan 15,000gpd, they will be required to remove 4: 1 in
amount off/l. Ifflow is 15,000gpd, they need to remove 60,000gpd. This will need to be in the report and added to the regs, and he included support
to add this, increasing the original cost from $4,000 to $ 5,000. Pat should have the draft report by early November. The pump station drawdown test
for 10 stationswillcost$500/station, foratotal $5,000 and willbedoneinearly November. Future 1/1 investigations may include: Smoke
testing insubarea3, subarea6 (north), northwestflowto Fitchburg and southwestto Fitchburg. 1,2, 4&. Otherwork may also be manhole & pipeline
rehab, building inspections, and inflowinvestigations. Nextstep may beto overlay the 100yr FEMA map and inspect homes in the wetlands area.
Also should do a flow metering project townwide and compare to the initial metering done in 2011. Jack added that a plan for scope of work for
Manhole Remediation Task 1 will be puttogether in Novemberand brought to the town managerto make sure we meet procurement. Carl
requested that the Sewer Commission review the scope of work before going out to bid. Pat stated that the I/l State reportis due in December,
but the work can be done over time. All communities are required to submit this initial report but not sure how often it will be required. He feels
Lunenburg is in good shape since many issues are already being addressed. The Commission discussed the estimated costs for the scope of work
listed in the report. Carl suggested having SWSS look at the repair at Kirby Ave. John & Joan felt that plan should be kept the way it is.
ANNOUNCEMENTS & PUBLIC COMMENT - none
CURRENT BUSINESS
380 Electric Ave. Car Wash, Dan Proctor-Application, Privilege fee - Commission reviewed Dan's letter. Joan asked if counsel had responded
but Barb said he was not able to yet. Carl suggested using the town counsel instead. Dan has submitted application and will submit a request for
consideration of compensation. Feels he should not have to pay a betterment since the land granted for easement years ago is unbuildable. Joan
responded that she understands his position but issue is thattown has a new town counsel and that has slowed down the process. Dan asked
for clarification on the privilege fee. Barb said that they are waiting for the old counsel to provide a summary of their work done so that SC can go to
new counsel for assistance. Carl has bookedtime on the 22nd with the new town counsel and all plan on attending. Joe feltthat this could seta
precedent that could hurt development. Dan will redraft his letter and will give Barb an estimate of the value involved. Barb received $21,000 and
the building permit application from Dan.
Motion: Joe A.
To accept the Dan Proctor's application to connect at 380 Electric Ave.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb will advise Dan of the approval.
K&P input/closeout-Barbiswaiting forasummary from KPLaw. She talked with JeffB. on 8/11, sent Dan'sletter of8/8 and 1999 memoof
understanding. Jeff said he would try to get something out before the meeting. Barb sent him a reminder on 8/15. SWSS Contract renewal-SWSS
response, need for additional counsel review-Commission reviewed the latest update on the contract. Carl proposed to vote to approve contract
Motion: Joe A.
Second: John R.
To approvethe 2017 contract with SWSS, pending receipt of the agreement with SWSS.
Vote: Unanimous
Pump Station Monthly Reports - no report was received yet. Barb has gotten the weekly reports but she will ask for the monthly report. Highfield
would impact restaurants in the building or pursue alien. Counsel will be consulted. Establishments in non-compliance - Ugly Omelet-. Barb
had sentacertified letterto Sethregarding $25/dayfine. The BOHtold herthatKristyisnowthemanagerand Barb will resendtheletterto her.
Bad Larry's request-asking to waive the tee since they just opened. Joan suggested waiving the tee since it is beginning of month.
Motion: John R
Second: JoeA.
To waive the $50 fee for Bad Larry for August.
Vote: Unanimous
===PAGE 2===
that the SC used to have a 3rd Thursday kept open to use for a rescheduled meeting or workshop.
Election of Officers - Joan suggested rotating the offices, as the Selectmen do. John suggested adding an agenda item to determine how often to
rotate positions.
Motion: John R.
To nominate Joe A. as chair.
Motion: John R.
To nominate Carl L. as vice-chair.
Motion: John R.
To nominate Joan P. as clerk.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
As new chair, Joe took over running the meeting
Minutes- Reviewed 6/13/17 minutes - Cari suggested that dates of emails be noted in the minutes, as well as handouts noted. Barb added the
date of Jack's email of6/13/17.
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes of 6/13/17, with the addition of the date of Jack's email.
Unanimous Minutes - 6/20 were discussed with one small grammatical adjustment.
Motion: CarlL.
To accept the minutes of 6/20/17, as amended.
Minutes 6/27/17 - Commission discussed the minutes and made several additional notations regarding the SWSS discussion in
minutes.
Motion: John
To accept the minutes of 6/27/17 as amended.
Second: CarlL.
Vote:
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Second: Joan P.
Voted: Unanimous
Invoices- Weston & Sampson-$11, 853.01 for /l project (camera, flowisolation). Regarding $6000 manhole job-invoicefor $2890.02 (final invoice
of 3)
Business Manager Report - Q1 bills-will be out by next week, Privilege fee document- 120 West St. -Barb reported she receivedthe
counsel approved privilege fee documentfrom Adam(MTC) on8/15. Building hasbeensold and isreadyto assess. Itneedstobe recorded.
Minutes Clerk-still have Emily working but will be starting to work at the school so she cannot continue to do the minutes. Barb will need to postthe
position. Town Attorney office hours in (4-7pm). Requestfrom John Londa-hereceived an inquiry aboutusing the
Babuil sined to posthe
Passios school kitchen for making wedding cakes. Gary Williams would need to inspect the kitchen and if 3 bay sink exists, it would need a grease
trap. Commissiondiscussed whetherthisuse would be exemptsince it was atownowned building.
Members AgendaInputs for Future Meetings -John questioned about whether Dragonfly Café had made an applicationto connect. Barb
will send a letter with a copy of the regulations.
Public Comment - none
Motion: Joan P.
To Adjourn: 9:03 pm.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
RECEIVED & FILED
Next meetings-8/29/17 - Town Hall, 9/12/17-DPW, 520 Chase Rd.
Respeêtively submitted,
love
L.
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
FED 2T: 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Handout: Email dated 8/12/18 from T.Daniels
