===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
asking for adjustment on last bill since he lives alone, is on Social Security and his bill was $ 150 more than usual due to the power washing, John
questioned if he has a waterleak. Carl stated that in the regulations, an irrigation meter can be put in which would prove usage that does not enter
the sewer system. but he would need to pay for it, which Aaron stated he cannot do. Carl asked ifthere was any motion for discussion on adjusting
the bill but none were raised, so the bill stands.
Aaron became irate and stated he will only pay the $97 and refuses to pay anymore.
There were no ANNOUNCEMENTS or PUBLIC COMMENT.
CURRENT BUSINESS
380 Electric Ave. Car Wash-Barb had contacted Town Counsel with Commission input on draft agreement but he had thought things were on hold
after email Carl had sent. Commission reviewed past discussion on the offerto the Proctors and that the offer would not be tied to the privilege fee.
Joanread the currentdraftproposalfromcounsel, the "Agreementbetween the Lunenburg Sewer Commission & the Proctors-Summaryof
Provisions". Danasked aboutfuture review ofthe policy forassessing aprivilege fee forthecarwash. Carreplied thatthere wasn'ta Title 5
available foracarwash butitwas based on the estimate ofusagegiven. Dan said he had no problem with the usagefee, butthatthe privilegefee is
to paydownolddebt. John suggested looking atpolicies, including privilege fees andirrigation meters. Troy agreed thatthereis aneedto
develop policies. Barb said that counsel willprovide the requested agreement document. Troy pointed outthat the only clarification needed is as
to where the money comes from.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: TroyD.
To approve agreement between the Lunenburg Sewer Commission and the Proctors "Summary of provisions" provided by town counsel
with one modification, that the $ 13,870 is not deducted from the privilege fee but is paid out of the Enterprise account to Dan Proctor, and
he is assessed the entire privilege fee amount and will get a rebate from the Commission of $13,870.
Discussion: Carl stated that counsel should word the summary as he chooses but the direction is clear. Troy wants the minutes should show that
we do not want ittied to privilege fee. John reiterated that the reduction is not associated with the privilege fee and the updated draft should be sent
to the Commission for approval. Joan would like a release signed by the Proctors after they receive the money.
Vote: 3 ayes, Carl-abstained
DPW Systems update-
Weston & Sampson-Draft DEP report, Pat Cotton and Steve Pedersen-Pat reported that the draft of the infiltration control plan was submitted
11/21. First section dealt with instances of sanitary sewer overflow over the past 10 years, of which there have been none, and looked at data from
3 large rainfallevents. The nextstep was to look at l/l workdone overthelast7 years and included: 2011 smoketesting on Graham Street and
Leominster Rd; in 2014 searched for inflow through building inspection program; 2016 town wide inspection of manholes; and 2017 did flow isolation in
Dana St. pump station area and searched sections of Elizabeth St. and Kirby Ave area for I/l. Steve P. stated that the report shows the DEP that
Lunenburg has that been proactive and continuing to work on issues. Pat continued with the next section concerning work on the connection tee,
summary of rehabs done and scheduled pipe line rehabs in spring. Carl pointed out several issues with the report and several motions for
changes were made as a result. Future plan is to do smoke test in sub-areas in town, inspect flood areas, inspect problem wet areas, and perform
town wide flow metering. Troy asked if DEP offers any money to do this work and Pat replied that there are low interest loans and some grants.
Commission reviewed the specifics in the report with Pat. Carl had a question about the figure of the combined i/l, of 435,000gpd and Pat
expressed that he believed these estimates to be much too high by over 300,000 gpd and explained how hisfigures were obtained. Carl stated
that this disconnect was much too big and had to be understood and in the meantime requested that the remainder of the 435,000gpd be
listed underinflowsectionin aparagraph similarto the one under Infiltration to showthatwork wasdone.
Motion: CarlL.
Second: John R.
To put a section in for 2016 Town-wide Manhole Inspections under Inflow.
Discussion: None
Vote: Unanimous
Carl brought up discussion of the 6300gpd observed in the John St./Elizabeth area, and concern about the other 1440gpd found through TV line,
report noting it as from an unknown source that were not included in the report nor was any statement made on next steps. Commission
discussed the need to investigate and identify source and add to future work and agreed on adding the 1440gpd to the 2017 work on report.
===PAGE 2===
During the discussion several of the items noted under Rehabilitation Summary were in the future and should be included in the Plan
and Schedule table. This was agreed.
Plan Priorities: Carl expressed concern about the proposed priority ranking. He took exception with having the Town wide metering as
the last priority and actually felt this would be #1 using the pump stations as a good indicator. Due to lack of time (the report had to be
submitted before the next scheduled meeting), and the input that we would not be locked into the priority ranking in the report, it was
greed to not can team. at wi make modifications to the report and Barb and Jack will review it prior to submitta
Grease Trap Regulation Compliance - Crossroads -Barb read response from counsel from 12/4 and only option is to lien the property. Barb
also said that Crossroads is not on the list that allows the permit to be revoked. Owner does not have a restaurant license because he is the landlord
but the two renters are restaurants and they are compliant. Barb is still working with counsel as to what the Commission can do. Troy said he would not
want to close the restaurants but wants to know what we can do to have the landlord comply.
Privilege fee Assessment $199,340.08-Whalom Lux Apts (1 Rogers Way) - Applicant submitted request for occupancy on 11/29 and paid
the$80,200 as originally agreed. Sewer Commission needs to vote to assess the privilege fee so that these monies can be collected.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
Sewer Commission to vote to assess privilege fee for Building 1-Whalom Luxury Apts at 1 Rogers Way with $ 55,340.08 to be paid priorto
occupancy and $ 4,800 to be paid annually over 30 years for a total of $199,340.08.
Discussion: none
Vote: Unanimous
Economic Development Workshop 12/12- Carl and Troy will go, Joan cannot commit due to family commitments. John cannot attend. Barb will
check with Joe. Bob Ebersole, on behalf ofthe Charter Review Committee, reported that the Sewer Commission is in the charter and the
Committee would like alltown departmentsto reviewthe Charterand makechangesorcomments. One area ofconcernisthatitstates thatthe
Commission'makes plans to sewer the entire town' which was the intent at that time but is no longer the case. Bob also suggested adding
reference to the Sewer Use Plan in the Charter.. Another clarification they wish to address deals with Sewer, Cemetery & Parks and separating
policy versus operations. Selectmen's section may be helpful. They would need responses in January or February. Mass Municipal Association
(MMA) annual workshop -Carl would like to attend. Cost $180 for entry and $200 per room for a 2 day event. Troy also interested. Members
agreedto reimburse for both Carl & Troy for attendance and split costs for rooms with BOS if Spouses attend.
Motion: John R
To pay for conference fee and half of the room fee for two people.
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes/Invoices/Action File Issues-Minutes 10/31, 11/14, Business Manager Report - tabled due to time constraints.
Motion: John R.
To Adjourn: 8:42pm.
Next meetings-1/9/18--6:30pm, DPW, 520 Chase Rd., 1/30 Town Hall
Respectively submitted
Save Planey
Jane Kanley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Referenced documents on file:
Agreement between the Lunenburg Sewer Commission & the Proctors- Summary of Provisions
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
RECEIVED & FILED
FED 2C 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
