===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
has values, it says to him it is a proposal. Kevin Olson (Wright-Pierce) said it is not the intention to get between
the DPW and the Sewer Commission; values were provided, but the intent was to provide information for
consideration; if chosen, a more formal proposal would be submitted. They have done a fair amount of waste
water engineering for the town. Inflow appears to be a problem in a few areas, namely Graham Street &
Leominster Road. Lunenburg is in a good position because they have done work on the DEP I// Control Plan
and continue to do work. Mr. Olson explained in detail the possible next steps/options for consideration to
address the collection system which included Flow Assessment to meet with the Commission to provide more
information for the three permanent flow meters; town wide rehabilitation work; meter basins that flow to
Leominster for SSES work; meter accuracy for Graham Street meter basin; silt/sedimentation for Graham Street
meter basin; determine the sources of infiltration town wide; create a prioritization plan for sewer pipe cleaning
and CCTV inspection; and implement a sump pump amnesty program to remove sump pumps which are a
significant source of inflow. A suggestion of doing a "camera on a stick" inspection of the north side of the
Whalom area was also discussed. Mr. Olson & Mr. Corbin were thanked for coming in. Weston & Sampson -
Pat Cotton gave a presentation based on the specifications requested. They previously performed a flow
metering study throughout the town. He discussed the 6 subareas on the map. Town wide manhole inspections
were done; they now want to most cost effectively locate and remove I/l from the system. The ten manohole
rehabilitation plan is to visit the locations, look at the manholes, double check the drainage area that is tributary
to the structure, make sure they are depressed, make sure there are no holes and they are sources of inflow,
take measurements or take dishes out and replace; a relatively easy fix. All work will be verified.
to start looking at the pipes. Graham Street was selected to clean and televise because of the historical
reasons, not flow data. (
Flow isolation is another method; smoke testing is also an option. Carl said we have
more infiltration than in 2011; there was a significant number of connections since then, possibly 200, most of
which were from the new construction at Emerald Place. If the disconnect is more than the infiltration was,
something is wrong. Mr. Cotton said whatever is chosen for the next round of investigations, sources will be
found and eliminated. The figures on the I/1 number on the manhole report were discussed. It was questionable
if the number is actually 6.7%. Mr. Cotton said it is based on flow estimates that are visualized. Flow numbers:
Fitchburg flows from March 2011(10-week period) were 267,000 gallons; Leominster flows were 9,293,000
gallons. Joan was not sure, with so many variables, that the 2011 data would still be workable. Mr. Cotton
explained what could be eliminated (narrowed) and believes that the 2011 data is still workable. Carl said there
was no infiltration problem in the Whalom area in 2011; but the proposal is to look to find infiltration in the area
where there was not a big infiltration problem. Joan asked Mr. Cotton what he thinks is going on; he said
manholes with inflow dishes, roofs, driveway drainage, sump pumps. Two remedies for consideration: smoke
testing the rest of the town, and CCTVs. We need to decide what to do first. Mr. Cotton recommended CCTVs
first. Jack would like to do as much manhole operations as possible. The manhole repairs that were approved
will be done first; there are 4 ways to follow up and find out where the water is coming from: (1) minimal camera
program for some limited streets to get data, (2) meter on a stick inspections in limited areas, (3) smoke test the
rest of the town that has not been smoke tested, and (4) building inspections for sump pumps. Re calibrating
pump stations, what is the accuracy, how many standard deviations off will they be? Mr. Cotton said they do 10
drawdown tests and the accuracy is very good. It was used in the 2011 work to validate some of the data. The
Commission agreed with the recommendations and identified 6 specific tasks to pursue. Mr. Cotton offered to
prepare the scope of work and the cost. Jack R. said he would prepare the scope. The Chairman requested it
be sent to the Commission for review when complete. Joan said a team effort is needed to prioritize. Weather
sensitive items were identified as: clay pipe TV inspection, flow investigation behind Dana Street. During the
discussions, Jack confirmed that there are only a few streets in the Whalom area that are known to be
connected to clay pipes. He will identify which streets in the scope of services. Pat was thanked for coming in.
===PAGE 2===
Àpril 25" - Meeting at Town Hall (Barb will not be there)
May 6th - Town Meeting
May 9th - no meeting as there will be no quorum since Joan & Joe will not be available
May 20"* - Town Election
Respectfully submitted,
Melanie Rich, Minutes Clerki
Metambo
