===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
G.L. C. SUAS < <|(a/(3) regaraing enforcement or the Allocation Agreement between the sewer commission
and JEG Holdings because discussion in an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating
position of the Sewer Commission and to return to Regular Session at the conclusion of the Executive
Session. John seconded the motion. Vote to go into Executive Session by roll call vote, John, aye,
Troy, aye, Carl aye. Commission entered into Executive Session at 6:05pm
Jeff first reviewed his recollection of events. Highfield submitted the withdrawal in July, we sent our letter in
December 2016. Carl went further back to review the Fitchburg IMA history and going back to Fitchburg for more
capacity, discussing the 29,040gpd capacity which Highfield reserved for the future. Highfield's contention is that
the calculation was wrong, the actual cost was 0 and pursuant to Paragraph 4 of the Allocation Agreement, we
were to copy them on the IMA. As for not providing then a copy, there was no proof that we did or didn't.
Attendees discussed the estimate and the incremental $57k added to the agreement. The allotment would run
with the property. John made the point that the property value is increased because of this allotment. Access to
sewer enhances the value of the property by more than $57,000. Troy questioned if the agreement is recorded
Barb confirmed that the December letter and Allocation agreement were recorded in December. Discussion
followed on future development and the allotment of capacity. Per counsel, the Commission would have to record
the withdrawal so no one could come back and think the allotment is in existence. Jeff asked about moving
forward and it was determined that it is worth pursuing. Having capacity and ability to connect to sewer has value.
Jeff proposed writing a letter to their counsel about the property value and they would be unable to sell it as ability
to connect to sewer. Attendees discussed that the capacity figure for Fitchburg was increased for Highfield
Village, so the Town will definitely incur a cost when the figure for John Fitch Highway is known. Bob noted that
there are no late charges or penalties noted on the Allocation agreement, so they may very well hold on until they
go to sell. Discussion on suing them for the cost, stating "if you don't pay, allocation would go away" followed.
None of the property abuts a sewer line. Jeff can give the counsel a call, see what they're thinking and advising
them that there's no guarantee of connection without the Allocation agreement and payment for capacity. Carl
suggested as a reasonable compromise that they could pay the allocation over 20 years.
Jeff confirmed that all agreed on the plan to make the call to counsel and that the report back should be done in
Executive Session, adding that it is reasonable to say that the threat of litigation will continue until an agreement is
reached.
Carl asked for a motion to adjourn executive session and go to the regular open meeting. John made the
motion, Troy seconded. Vote to adjourn by roll call: John, aye, Troy, aye, Carl aye. Sewer Commission
exited executive session at 6:54pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Barb Letebvre, Business Manager for the Sewer Commission
