===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
YUnnEN DUSINESS
FY18 Budget- Going through the working document tonight; We are on with Fincom 3/9. Commission reviewed
Version 3 but may need workshop. Reviewed budget line by line. Purchase of Service-Joan's point is that pump
stations have a life-expectancy; put a little aside to plan for outage. Jack spoke of an assessment of the pump
stations; he will look to put something together. Jack spoke about W&S contract. Jack proposed using project
monies on the I/l work. We have about $39K; Carl talked with Karen & Heather and they are good with using
project funds for I/l. Commission discussed Northern data for doing sewer billing. The cost to buy software
package and do it is $30,000 first year; $3,500/yr. after-or work with the Water District. If we went through
Lunenburg Water, it would be $20,000 plus yearly cost; discussed of proposed partnership with Lunenburg
Water. John requested that Barb provide the billing worktlow to the other members for review before the budget
workshop. Commission discussed I/l work. Jack noted that if it is over $50,000, has to go out to bid. Carl would
like the project spread out. We can look at capital plan, and look at a 3 yr. plan for I/l; Carl reiterated that we
need to calibrate the pump stations to understand runtimes. Carl noted that the Commission is awaiting the
annual report from SWSS which is important in this budget timeframe as to whether SWSS sees any
improvements, upcoming costs. Jack will follow up with SWSS. Carl asked about the manhole work. Jack is
awaiting response. Barb will have the YTD FY17 at the workshop to determine how much monies are left in this
fiscal year to spend.
Regulations Update -Several potential changes to the Grease trap regs were discussed. Joan wanted to
change to monthly invoicing of fees. Commissioners need to review regs for other changes. Before Joan left the
meeting, it was confirmed that the Budget Workshop would be 6:30-8:30 on 2/21. Joan left at 5:30.
DPW Operations issues- FOG Program: Carl had handout of new checklist to discuss. Jack has met, spoken
with or left message for most of these accounts. All restaurants are submitting reports, some late. Jack also
mentioned the animosity and that he is starting to build a rapport. Carl concerned that reports are not
completed correctly and added his desire to have schematics. Jack does not want to get into compliance with
plumbing code and confirming schematic agrees w/code. He will concern himself with what's there, measuring
correctly, documenting correctly. He agrees with the key objectives of the handout: Educate, establishment
operators/management -1)Grease Trap Measurements, 2) How to read/fill out forms, reports, permits, 3)How to
clean grease traps, 4)Understand all relevant regulations. Other than that goes more to the future.
Carl stated that if someone doesn't comply with regs, this is the time to communicate that issue and to inform of
non-compliance if he sees a violation, then report back to the Commission. Discussed the Crossroads
schematic. John stated that with Crossroads, if it was at one point approved and given occupancy, we cannot
go back. Carl had had a conversation with plumbing inspector and there are options. John stated that there
are too many unknowns. Carl wants to see what's in place to confirm that the equipment onsite agrees with the
schematic on file. He noted that we need to see the Asian plan or schematic. Commission discussed checking
if logs and signs are posted. Question on whether Bangkok Hill has 1 trap or 2. Commission discussed what we
need to do to support the regs. We need to update the log, measure in inches. John offered to come up with a
form going forward. Pump Stations - Jack talked about the generator issue at Mass 2. SWSS had F&M
Generator looked at it - wires all eaten by mice - and suggested a backup generator and pump trucks on site,
but cost would be substantial. Jack contacted Caterpillar for diagnosis and proposal. Different proposals were
received and will most likely be around $3000 for Cat to repair the damaged component. Commission agreed to
go with Jack's recommendation but wants to prevent mice any more mice damage. Jack will speak with SWSS.
Jack brought up the numerous call outs on Leominster Rd. He has spoken with John DiNapoli of Unitil who sent
the list of dates to engineering. Only one issue surfaced, that being branch power to the station is being
interrupted by another source other than street power. Jack hasn't resolved yet but it behooves SWSS to look
into it further. He gave John from SWSS the info to hopefully trigger investigation. As a side note, Jack noted
the littlest stations on Francis and West Street have the most grease - that residences are the worst offenders
of grease. Reports - Carl asked about the flow meter work that's part of SWSS contract. Barb stated that they
were present for the November inspection with Flow Assessment as was Jack. The original pump station report
===PAGE 2===
Sit s nate bare has any restauranis. war will ask neatner.
baro reminded inal next
week is the workshop, February 21 at 6:30pm. Joe will try and attend.
Joe made a motion to adjourn, John seconded. Meeting adjourned at 6:29pm
Respectfully
