===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of Sewer Commission Meeting - July 11, 2017 - DPW Building - 520 Chase Road
Attendees: Joe Anderson, Clerk, Joan Pease, Troy Daniels, Members, Barbara Lefebvre, Business Manager
Absent: Carl Luck, Chair, John Reynolds, Vice-Chair
Joe, in Carl and John's absence, opened meeting at: 6:30pm stating that In accordance with the requirements of the
Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded. Attendance by roll call.
CURRENT BUSINESS -380 Electric Ave proposal -Barb noted that Roger Brooks, head of the Leominster
Wastewater division of the DPW has advised Jack that they are all set with approvals. He also agreed as to our cost
of $5k as connection payment, instead of the $26k figure originally provided. Jack had sent the Commission an email
earlier in the day once again restating his view on the 380 Electric issue in favor of doing what we could for the
Proctors. Barb reviewed her conversation with Jeff Blake of Kopelman & Paige, that he was not ready to provide a
written opinion but provided some options and suggested further research of old files from the original easements for
pump stations. Troy's concern of going with Kopelman and Paige was discussed, that, per the Town Manager's
email sent to the full Commission, Heather had indicated that the Sewer Commission lacked authority to hire outside
counsel plus the fact that the new counsel is on retainer so it would be at no cost to the Commission to employ them
in this legal matter. Barb will reach out to new counsel and co Troy for his input if it is needed. Commission
discussed making any agreement with Dan Proctor conditional upon the combination of all 3 lots under the one with
the pump station. The only other item with Kopelman and Paige is the Highfield Village issue which will be put on the
next agenda for discussion. Commission needs to decide on how to proceed as to which counsel the Commission
should work with on this issue. Troy made the motion to further investigate the options relative to 380 Electric
Avenue with new town counsel. Joan seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. Operations & System
Management - Barb restated that Jack had sent out an email earlier today to all the Commissioners with an update
on the work in Whalom and though he'd hoped to have a report from Weston & Sampson for tonight's meeting, he
will have the report by the end of the week. Pump stations reports -All present agreed that they did not need to
see the most recent pump station report that Barb had for week-ending 6/30/17 but that they'd prefer, going forward,
to have a monthly summary of highlights. Barb still has to work on the SWSS renewal contract and that it is not ready
for review tonight but stated that it should be ready by the next meeting on 7/25. Barb is unable to attend that
meeting. Commission discussed changing the contract to incorporate more planning and less details. Barb noted
that we are in the middle of a 3 year renewable contract that cannot be changed that substantially, but as long as
there is a good 'give and take', Debbie would most likely agree to the changes. August Meeting with Selectmen -
Commission discussed date choices. Having the meeting 8/8 prevents the Commission from having 2 meetings for
early August so that date would work best. Commission agreed to 5pm start. Barb will advise the invitees of the date
and time, including the new town counsel. Based on prior discussion regarding town counsel and independent
counsel, Barb will let Rob Bowen know that he needn't attend. FY17 Encumbrances - amounts were reviewed -
$3230 for general budget and $14,910.65 in project monies. Commission approved and signed off form which Barb
will bring to Town Hall tomorrow. Dan Proctor 380 Electric Ave.) came in (7:02pm) to review issues with 380
Electric. Commission advised Dan that Leominster is all set, but further research needs to be done on the privilege
fee question before counsel can provide decision. Dan said he probably had some documents from the agreement in
1999 and would bring it in to the office tomorrow. Commission advised Dan that Commission wants to go with the
new counsel so they'll need to be brought up to speed. Barb will go through boxes from Laura Williams to find any
correspondence on issue. Troy noted one concern of counsel that all the parcels be combined under the one with
the pump station. Dan said that the ANR plan is being done right now.
Business Manager Report- Privilege Fee Assessment - 15 Oak Ave- Commission signed the document to be
recorded at the Registry for this privilege fee. SWSS Contract renewal for FY 18 was already discussed and will be
reviewed at the next meeting. Grease Trap Compliance - Annual Permit letters -6 letters were sent out certified on
7/10. Only one account has subsequently contacted the office and will be on the agenda for 7/25, contesting the
requirements of the permit application. 1st Tuesday Report - 2 accounts were sent certified notices with $50 fee on
7/11. Permit to connect-257 Electric was only permit to connect received since the last meeting. There are no
invoices or minutes for approval. Clerk Vacancy - Commission determined that this should be posted again for
start date of September. All present discussed other outlets - Sentinel, Linkedin, Indeed.com, Monster - even
sending out to other towns to see if someone already doing minutes might be interested in more hours. Cost may be
too great for Sentinel and online job sites. Barb will talk te
Bygaterwe manpostion any ofthe online M
AUG 0 3 2017
BY:1 M:
===PAGE 2===
services but to go ahead and put in the Ledger and online for now for the fall. Emily can only help through August.
No other applications were received
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings -Barb will put Highfield Village on the next agenda to determine
counsel. Commission reviewed next meetings: July 25- Regular meeting, August 8-early start of 5pm for Special
meeting, then the Regular meeting at 6:30. Commission agreed that there should be no specific agenda for the early
portion of the 8/8 meeting, just a general discussion. Commission also discussed not having 'Operations' on the
agenda but instead having "DPW report" for any updates from Jack that he feels the Commission needs to know for
planning purposes.
Adjournment - Troy motioned to adjourn; Joan 2nd; all in favor. The meeting adjourned at 7:22p.m.
Respectfully submitted
Whereb
/ Barb Lefebvre, Business Manager for the Lunenburg Sewer Commission
