===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
APPOINTMENTS: - The 6:30 pm appointment for Dan Proctor, 380 Electric Ave Car Wash, has requested to
reschedule.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Greg Bitter, Planning Board Chair, introduced himself and wanted to encourage communications and/or
dialogue with the Commission.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
Election of Officers - Troy Daniels made a motion to wait until there is a full Commission; John Reynolds
seconded; all voted in favor; motion approved. Operations & System Supervision-SWSS (Small Water
System Services) Contract Renewal - Small Water is supposed to come in quarterly; we need to invite them in to
the next meeting. Discussion of roles regarding contracts followed. Troy questioned if the granting of funds is
commission business, he was unsure of the commission's role with the SWSS. Carl explained the functions; the
day to day is the DPW's responsibility, releasing contracts is the commission's responsibility. I/l (Inflow/Infiltration)
reduction projects: Status on the Manhole Dish Installation - Jack said they hope to start early next week. Because
of the paving of Route 2A, the number of dishes will be reduced; Jack proposed that Weston Sampson retrieve the
dishes (~10) at the same time they are going to retrieve the dishes that have fallen into the system. This work
would be done under the authorized dish installation funding. Camera and Flow Isolation Contract - Jack said at
the time of discussion there was no talk about the $8K ceiling and even though there were good intentions of the
commission, we had enough money to do the two processes. For the commission to put a cap on that project has
hindered progress. In order to go with the $12K quote that Jack received,
, the original vote of the commission would
have to be rescinded and re-voted. Carl said it would be inconsistent to our fiduciary responsibilities to turn over
the l/l operations to the town. Jack was prepared to go with a broader scope of work; the urgency is because they
are calendar critical. Carl expressed reluctance to approve the increase without getting a quote from the other
supplier. There were discussions on ethics. John would like to move forward with the low bids Jack received. Troy
was uncomfortable tailoring an RFP that was given already and felt it would be problematic. He wants to
understand what our fiduciary responsibility is. There was discussion on the infrastructure line item which is only
one line item in the Purchase of Services budget. Barb said it always is budgeted to allow for emergencies but
Purchase of Service is all one account and includes Infrastructure, I/l remediation, Legal, Outsourcing and
Engineering; We need to determine what is left in the infrastructure line item for year-end. Jack is asking that we
can go with the program for $12K which has been approved by the Chief Procurement Officer. Joe made a motion
to move forward with the procurement of $12K for the flow isolation and videoing of the PVC pipe that Jack
is proposing and to rescind the prior vote of the $8K cap; John seconded. Discussion: Carl thinks the bidding
process was flawed by not asking all relevant engineers to quote on it and thinks the $7,500 for the TV portion is
much more than it should be. Voted: 3-1-0; motion passed. Scope of Services Preparation - The list includes
smoke testing, calibrating the pump stations, engineering for manhole rehabilitation, performing house to house
inspection, and initiating manhole rehabilitation. The I/l report to DEP is needed by December. Commission
discussed going out to bid and getting quotes for the manhole rehab with Jack's input. Troy wants to rely on the
DPW Director and the Business Director to get the things done. Jack would like to put out a scope of work for all
the work and include special conditions such as chronology, etc. There is money to cover the items in the project
fund. Interpretations and responsibilities of the charter were discussed. Jack will need the help of a consultant to
determine the scope as it is wide-ranging. The I/l report will be the first priority. Pump Station Reports - Jack said
the reports have been a failure; there is a disconnect between back office support at the SWSS and the technicians
in the tield. He received a clearer form; he will email it to the commission for review. Troy asked about an analysis
that could be used for the strategic plan. System Maintenance Documentation - There was a question on
documenting all maintenance to the system. Jack said the maintenance on the system is 99% pump station. Barb
can pull any invoice for any particular pump station to see what has/has not been done. With the information
available from the Accounts Payable system, it is not a good use of time to transfer it into an excel sheet for now.
===PAGE 2===
work; Jack believed it would be. Joe made a motion to authorize $16K for the Mass Ave assembly rework;
John seconded; all voted in favor; motion approved. Grease Trap Compliance Work - Barb will send annual
permit fee letters out tomorrow. Certain accounts will receive more individualized letters: A&D Crossroads owes us
the as-built on the new interceptor and money for non-compliance; Darios and Ixtapa are impacted because they
are restaurants attached to the A&D Crossroads' grease interceptor; Conrads' waiver requirements are still
outstanding including logs from the last cleaning. Barb needs to send them the letter regarding the waiver approval
from April, Kabobelicious still owes non-compliance penalties. They should not be issued a permit to discharge in
the new year until the money is received. Joe left the meeting. Privilege Fee Assessment- Barb provided
dated are into eared so uses on ting isong mily are
Business Manager Report - The FY17 Q4 Commitment was signed ($176,815.87). SRF Project Closeout -
Barb described the Town Accountant's request to transfer $614.00 from the Enterprise Fund to the SRF Project
fund to close out the project. Otherwise, they would have to issue a bond for $614 which Karen did not
recommend. Troy made a motion to transfer $614.00 from the Enterprise Fund to pay the SRF project; John
seconded; all voted in favor; motion approved. Minutes - deferred. Invoices were approved for payment.
Permits to Connect - 29 Summer Street; one trailer at Meadow Woods reconnecting and two tenant situations
(pet store/dental office); 324 will be a vet office. Carl had attended the MCPPO seminar on 5/23 which he
found very helpful.
UPCOMING SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES- June 13th - Regular Meeting (DPW, 520 Chase Road)
June 27th - Regular Meeting (Town Hall, 17 Main Street)
ADJOURNMENT - Troy motioned to adjourn; John 2nd; all in favor. The meeting adjourned at 9:20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
a Picklel
