===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
sent by the vice-chair to DPW with questions, directives or reprimands that were not authorized or voted on by the Sewer
Commission. He is concerned about opinions that may not reflect the Commission, contacts with vendors and impatience
with vendors that could cause vendors to back away from doing business with the town. He stated that Town Counsel was
consulted and they stated that any issues involving town employees should be taken up with entire Commission and sent to
the town manager. Joan Pease agreed with many issues that Troy pointed out. She is surprised to find that one member has
done summaries after meetings and sent them to DPW without others having input. She felt that any summaries should be
reviewed and voted on by the Commission, as they do with the minutes. John Reynolds agreed that they are valid points. Carl
Luck requested to include a document with the records of the meeting. He stated he would welcome open discussion on
communications, a review of recent communications, regarding their propriety and the opportunity to set the record straight.
He added that he had contact with vendors to obtain technical information related to reports which contained conflicting data
for the purpose of evaluating the Task 2 proposal, which had been protocol for the past 11 years he had been on the
Commission, but will refrain from this in the future and agrees that neither the commission or Town employees should not
reprimand Town employees who do not work for or are appointed by them, which he has never done. All agreed that no one
will contact any consultants or do summaries without the agreement of the Commission.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Communications between individual commission members/DPW/contractors/consultants - Joe asked if all are clear
that communication be decided on as a group-no one goes off individually. Carl asked if this included the DPW Director and
the business manager. Joan added that according to counsel, they should not be contacting anyone individually, but can go
through the business manager for administrative information, but no discussion of policy. Communication Policy Discussion
- Town Manager, Heather Lemieux, stated that a policy is not necessary but could be helpful to clarify communications. All
Commissioners, Heather and Jack agreed to attend a workshop meeting to discuss a policy. Heather added that everyone
has the same goal, to work for the best of the town. Communication specifically with Weston & Sampson-Joe reiterated
that discussion should be as a group. Troy asked how real a threat is it for Weston & Sampson to quit the town. Joe and
Jack stated that they do not feel that there is a threat. Jack talked to Pat Cotton of Weston and Sampson and he feels
progress will be made. Jack stated that he had not contacted the manager at Weston and Sampson about this issue at the
request of the engineer, Pat. Commission briefly discussed concerns about communications with Weston & Sampson and
why there was a feeling that they might quit the town. Carl wanted to find out who initiated the claim that Weston and
Sampson were willing to quit Lunenburg as he believes it to be false but Joe deferred further discussion until the
communications workshop. Carl also stated that he had talked to Steve Pederson (Pat Cotton's manager at Weston and
Sampson) and there were no issues at Weston and Sampson as of Nov. 3rd, the morning that the special meeting was
requested. Barb brought up the issue of being asked to contact people that her supervisor does not want her contacting. A
comment was made that Barb can defer anything to Jack. Joan added that the charter states that the Sewer Commission
goes through the town manager and the Town Manager goes to the DPW. Potential impact to the rate users, town and
Commission of losing vendors - Joe stated that he would not like to lose good vendors. If town loses a vendor, it could
impact pricing and timing on work but this could be better or worse. John agreed that the vendors have been good, and if we
lose vendors, pricing could go up. Potential appearance of impropriety regarding positioning vendors--Troy said that
town counsel advised to be careful, since it could have impact on users, cost to users and being able to use those vendors.
Joan added that a lot of these issues will be eliminated if the Commission communicates as a group. Protocol for
Commissioners addressing staff, departments, employees, vendors - All agreed that this would be discussed at the
workshop. Troy expressed concern about what happens between now and then. Joe reiterated that no one goes to talk with
S oe reiterated that no one goes to talk with
anyone without the Commission all agreeing. Impact, issues, and consequences of individual Commissioner
communications - Joe stated that we are aware of the impacts, but it shouldn't be issue going forward. Town Attorney
office hours discussion - Commission discussed how to make use of the open hours with counsel and agreed that anyone
should be able to get clarification from counsel on protocol and procedure but should not be discussing policy issues.
===PAGE 2===
surveying the pumps at each station, regarding its expected life and then would know what is needed. Small items could be
stockpiled. He also pointed out that Weston & Sampson did a survey of all stations some years ago. Commission discussed
doing a capital plan for future budget items, based on doing a pump station survey. Weston & Sampson-DEP report, - Jack
spoke to Pat today-should be finished this week and will get it to the Sewer Commission. Tasks 1 & Il for 1/l work- Jack will
send report electronically to Commissioners to give all a chance to digest it so the Commission can put together list of
concerns in question form for Jack to go back to them with. He also received an email that answered questions that Carl was
working with Pat on. He will send to all to read. Part of work will need to go out for bids and should be able to do work in the
spring
Millette extension request Jack said that the paving moratorium should not be issue for Sewer Commission - the
Commission decides on expansion. Jack had met with them and they should understand all the issues about the paving but
that it should not be a problem. 380 Electric Ave. Car Wash status-- Counsel emailed that Commission is authorized to act
but he needs to do more research. Billing Outsourcing status - Barb is setting up next step to meet with Myleen
(Treasurer) and Karen (Finance) concerning Northern Data. Grease Trap Regulation Compliance - Crossroads
revocation of permit hearing- Barb confirmed that Adam said we are good on the liening but have to see if charges quality
for putting it on the tax rolls. He will look further into it. Barb said that they would not be having a hearing on Dec. 5 and
Crossroads will be on the next agenda. All agreed to have Barb contact attorney if she has not heard back. 1st Tuesday
report status - Barb has not heard from the one account for October logs. All agreed that if Barb has not heard by the end of
the week, she can start non-compliance process. Q2 Commitment - Sewer Commission signed off on Commitment for
$209,239.10. Minutes - 10/31/17 - Tabled to next meeting and Barb will make Troy's edit and resend out.
Minutes - 10/10/17-Motion - John R.
Second - Troy D.
To approve Sewer Commission Minutes of 10/10/17
Vote -Unanimous.
Business Manager Report-Barb received a Permit to connect on Mays Field Road and the Nov. 21 Economic workshop will
be rescheduled. Nov. 28 - Special town meeting will be at the LMHS. Barb's next focus item will be working to get the
delinquencies done for the tax bills.
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings -policy review-Barb had received a request to set aside time in each
agenda items of Task I/l1 discussion, DEP discussion, SWSS parts list discussion, 380 Electric Ave. Car Wash, Crossroads
important that all attend and will also invite Heather & Jack.
Public Comment -- Joe thought discussion went well so that Commission can do the best for the town and will be good when
all are on the same page. Carl thought Joe had done a good job leading the meeting.
Motion: Troy D.
To adjourn at 7:50pm
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
Next meetings - November 28-Special Town Meeting, LMHS, 1079 Main St.; December 5 - Regular meeting (re-schedule of
12/12)- DPW, 520 Chase Rd.
Respectively submited,
Tane
Randy
Jane Ranley, Board Clerk
