===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 12 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes of Sewer Commission Meeting - June 27, 2017 - Town Hall, 2nd Floor Meeting Rm, 17
Main St.
Attendees: Carl Luck (Chair), Joe Anderson, Joan Pease, Troy Daniels, Barb Lefebvre (Business
Manager); Absent: John Reynolds
Guests: Small Water Systems: Deb Trumbull, Al Packard, John Mohammed; Bob Proctor
Called to order at 6:30 pm.
Announcements - The election of Commission Officials will be delayed until the first meeting in August.
Food service establishments are required to submit their annual permit and fees in by 6/30 in order to get
permit to discharge to sewer by 7/1.
Public Comment -Troy D. spoke about the discussion at the last meeting and of his support of the DPW
Director and of improving relationships.
Current Business
Operations & System Management - Jack Rodriquenz sent an email to the Commission but will not be
attending this evening. I/l reduction projects status- The Commission would like an update from Jack
on the report last week of significant infiltration and leaks and if a plan to remedy has been received and
what the timeframe will be.
Small Water Systems, Contract Renewal - Al Packard, John Mohammed and Deb Trumbull form
SWSS were present. Joan read the section of Jack's email of 6/27 pertaining to SWSS, that he is very
happy with SWSS, and he encouraged the Commission to renew the contract. The Commission
discussed the work SWSS has done over the past four years and how they would like more help to
prepare for the future and formulating the big picture. Concern was raised over the lack of inventory of
spare parts. Al P. will meet with Jack R. and a plan on what needs to be in stock will be developed. The
group went on to review and discuss the contract where some concerns were raised and clarification
requested. Debbie mentioned that she found it hard to have multiple bosses. The contract will be
discussed further at future meetings. The overriding issue to be fixed is the current agreement references
many agreements and an order of precedence is needed per counsel. Debbie agreed to the addition of
the order of precedence as proposed into the contract. She also agreed that dish installation would be
covered under the manhole seals paragraph and that pipe and manhole issues are covered under the
contract. Deb is willing to continue service past 7/1. Barb L. will work on the document and send to Deb
Upland Ave Extension - Robert Proctor passed out a sketch on behalf of his client. The client would like
permission to pursue a sewer extension. The Commission agreed that it appears straightforward and
consistent with the CWMP. There was a question on which betterment would be used to assess the 50%
privilege fee. Barb L. will check with Counsel. The Commission briefly discussed outreach to neighbors
but determined it was best left to the applicant to pursue if decided.
380 Electric Ave Proposal - There is no update. Troy D. accepted the assignment to work as liaison on
this project. Barb L. will get clarification on Leominster's estimated cost and will gather information on ail
the pump stations for future consideration.
Grease Trap Compliance Issues - Annual Permit status is on Google Drive. The Commission discussed
the letter to be sent to those who do not submit by deadline. Barb will send out certified letters to those
without submittal as of 6/30.
Privilege Fee Assessment - The Commission discussed the privilege fee for 120 West Street.
Motion: Joan P.
To assess a privilege fee of $11,551.47 for 120 West Street
Discussion: None
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Communications - The Commission discussed the advantages and disadvantages of a Facebook page.
Bob Ebersole came forward and stated that Social Media Policies are currently being worked on by the
Selectmen and to hold off on the decision.
Minute Clerk Posting - The Commission discussed approving the application for Emily Lehto and the
hiring process.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
To approve the application/hiring of Emily effective 6/29 after requisite 10 days posted, to be
appointed by Heather and ratified by the BOS at their next meeting on 7/11.
Discussion: The Commission discussed pay rate.
Motion: Troy D.
Second: Joe A.
To amend the motion to include pay rate of $16.26/hour
Discussion: None
Vote - Unanimous
The Commission discussed the possibility of Emily working more than 10-15 hours per month for the
summer and decided that since it was posted as such it cannot be increased.
Business Manager Report - The Q4 EOY commitment is $904.10 and was signed by the Commission.
The Flow Assessment contract for FY18 was signed by Carl L. The Commission discussed the benefits
of meeting with Flow Assessment, possibly in August.
Quarterly Communications meeting with Town Manager/BOS Liaison/DPW Director - The meeting
will be postponed until the meeting with the Town Manager, Selectmen representative and DPW Director
has occurred
Minutes/Invoices/Action File Issues -Invoices - Two invoices were reviewed: Fitchburg $13,341.04
and Koppelman $1003. Minutes - The Minutes from 12/30/16 (corrected to 12/13/16), 5/30/17 and
2/28/17 were reviewed by the Commission.
Motion: Joe A.
To approve the minutes of 12/30/16
Discussion: None
Second: Troy D.
Vote: Unanimous
Joe noted that he was not present on 5/30/17 for the vote on 15 Oak Ave, but left prior to that. Minutes
will be amended to reflect that.
Motion: Joe A.
Second: Troy D.
To approve the minutes of the 5/30/2017 as amended
Discussion: None
Vote - Unanimous (Joan P. abstained)
Motion: Joe A.
To approve the minutes of 2/28/2017
Discussion: None
Second: Troy D.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb noted a correction to the date of the December minutes. The date should be December 13, 2016.
Motion: Joe A
Second: Troy D.
To approve the minutes of 12/13/2016
Discussion: None
Vote: Unanimous
Permits to connect - There are two permits:17 Cross Road and 324 Electric Ave.
Motion to adjourn: Joe A.
To adjourn at 8:50pm
Discussion: None
Second: Troy D.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectfully submitted,
