===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
designated by BUA as 2-tamily.
The bylaw says it the 2 unit of 2-tamily is less than 3 rooms, it is only
assessed as ½ unit. 120 Pratt Street is listed as single-family and charges $845 for apt. Mr. Luria will go to an
Assessors(BOA) meeting to take up the issue.
Joan confirmed that 63 Pratt Street is listed as 2-tamily; the
BOA makes the determination of classification. Our engineers, Weston & Sampson, determined the units based
on the BOA information. John suggested that we have a floor plan is dated and signed by homeowner and do
this going forward as procedure.
In meantime, they should get the room count on record with BOA. Paula did
up floor plan for Paul to sign. Joan made the motion to accept the floor plan drawing submitted by Paula
Luria of 63 Pratt Street showing only two rooms present for the 2'° unit. Joe seconded. Vote taken was
unanimous. Joan then made the motion to amend the previous assessment of 2 units to 1.5 units since
the 2°d unit contains only 2 rooms. Joe seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. John noted that we will be
processing the abatement tor % unit. Paul raised another concern about using Title V requirements to go by
bedroom count and that many laws don't make sense. John stated that we will be looking at policies in 2017and
maybe this would be one we should look at. As a bylaw it would have to be changed by Town Meeting vote.
7:00pm Appointment - Dan Proctor - 380 Electric discussion - Mr. Proctor handed out map -3 properties -
380 electric (old Dufour), 390 and 400 Electric; was the easement map from 2002; the BOS approached Dan &
brother - run sewer line thru 390 and get free betterment; presently in process - putting in car wash; 2story red
building comes out side and goes into easement. Under separate ownership - to put carwash in wants to
combine all 3 lots. Has been going to all boards; showed plan to JR - and how to sewer. Until - sewer -
elevated - can't access so Dan talked to JR about. John noted that by combining the properties there is no
easement but that by connecting, it would create another privilege fee. Dan is aware. John asked about a car
wash and if Dan knows the size of the pipe behind 390 Electric. Dan stated that Ducharme & Willis Engineering
will be designing, that the pipe is 6" and that it should be able to handle the usage. Commissioners agreed that
they would have no issue with Dan connecting 380 Electric Ave. to sewer. Barb clarified that that approval would
be contingent on the merging of the 3 properties so that there would be no crossing of property lines to connect.
Dan is aware. He also wanted to bring up 400 Electric - it was purchased in 2006, already connected to sewer;
runs through back to Dana; tied in by another contractor. During the discussion with Barb & Jack determined
that they have never been billed for sewer. Their office manager processes the bills and thought water/sewer
was a combined bill. Barb already has contacted the Water Dept. for readings; Jack was present for connection
and remembered the contractor. Barb has already reached out to the contractor for an as-built.
Crossroads - David McMenemy from Wind River was present. He had spoken with Jack Rodriquenz who had
given his approval to move forward with the project. John stated that the last time Dave was here we were told
we'd have a detailed plan. Dave stated that he was mistaken. John noted he had concerns with the apparent
discrepancy between CMR 248 stating floor drains must go through interceptors/traps and the plumbing
inspector stating floor drains are not necessary. Dave McMenemy pointed out that the code in place when
Crossroads went in could have been different. When was CMR 248 updated because when Dave Brambila
bought the property, it met code. Commission discussed that someone signed off on a certificate of occupancy.
There was discussion about prior approvals and if there was a copy of the Certificate of Occupancy, was it done
prior to sewer installation on Mass Ave. and would approvals like this be grandfathered? These may be
questions for counsel. The group reviewed Wind River's schematics received at the start of this whole action.
ved Wind diversa
Only real issue are sinks that are not connected to a trap or leading to the external interceptor. Joan stated that
she wouldn't have an issue approving this tonight. Richard agreed. John asked if that was a motion. Joan made
a motion that we accept the plan with the new external interceptor and we accept the previous
inspection which resulted in a Certificate of Occupancy that was valid at the time and that we allow them
to proceed. Richard seconded. John asked if there was further discussion. Joe asked about a sign at each
sink stating 'no grease'. Dave said he had 'best practices' signs that he will provide to Crossroads which
instructs on proper disposal. John also wanted it stated that, by accepting this plan and allowing the installation
of the correctly-sized tank, this would not preclude the Commission from future research and action should a
grease problem be detected. Vote taken was unanimous.
===PAGE 2===
Weston & Sampson-hoping to have at the next meeting; not yet contirmed.
Grease Traps-Asian Imperial - Kim responded to the letter sent 12/21 and scheduled next pump-out by 3/6
and sent copies of logs to us as requested. Ugly Omelet - Barb read the letter of 11/1/16 to review
requirements. Commission agreed that we need to assess $50 fine. Joan made the motion to assess the $50
fine to the Ugly Omelet and send a letter stating that a $50 fine is due and that we need 2 reports. Both a
report on the repair and a copy of the report for the 12/6 pump-out will be due within 2 weeks from the
date of the letter. If these aren't met then a tee of $25/day retroactive back to the start of the 2-week
period will be assessed. Letter will reter to the rule that applies to the violation. Joe seconded. Vote
unanimous. Discussion followed about timing and it was agreed that stating 10 business days is clearer. Joan
made the motion to amend the prior motion to replace the language of '2 weeks' should be replaced with
consistent. Kabobelicious - Barb noted that we've received $550 towards $3,300 fine for December &
January. Sewer usage paid 1/10/17. Seema may request appointment with Commission in February to request
adjustment payment. She will send an email. Progressive Discipline Action Policy - Joan would like to get
all dates and letters consistent going forward. Regs state that Barb will send out bills every 2 weeks. We may
want to review that. John asked about having a workshop but it was determined that all Commissioners should
review the Grease Trap regs, penalties section (3-4 pages) and make notes in the margins, and that we'd
discuss at the next untelevised meeting. Richard asked that Barb send him a full copy of the regs.
Highfield Village Withdrawal - The Commissioners reviewed the draft letter from counsel that he proposes
sending the JEG. There were no issues. Joan made the motion that we have counsel send the letter. Joe
seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
SRF Betterments Abatement Requests - Commissioners discussed the 100% Veterans disability status and
reviewed counsel's opinion on abatements. Unfortunately, all that they can offer is to defer the betterment under
Clause 41A. Abatements cannot be offered on the basis of a veteran's status based on state law. Abatements
are granted when applicant can show disproportionate value of the betterment to the property and has nothing
to do with property tax exemptions. 2 Rennie Street (Bellafiore) - Joe made the motion that the abatement
request for 2 Rennie Street be denied. Joan seconded. Joan wanted it on record that the Commission
wishes that they could honor the veterans in this way, but cannot per the law. Vote taken was unanimous. We
will provide information on the deferral in the denial notice. 9 Pratt Street (Michaud) - Joe made the motion
that the abatement request for 9 Pratt Street be denied. Joan seconded. Vote taken was unanimous. 63
Pratt Street (Paul Luria) - This abatement was reviewed and voted on at the beginning of the meeting
FY18 Budget - We received packet from the Accountant 1/9 and the budget process will begin; Barb handed
out FY17 information which was also sent by email today; Barb and Carl to start on FY18.
Minutes/Invoices/Action File Issues -Minutes Clerk -awaiting new Town Manager for next step. Minutes -
12/13 not ready. Invoices - Fitchburg $11,096.39; KP Law $850 approved
Joan wanted to go back to the Progressive Discipline policy. We hadn't reviewed the 15 Tuesday reports.
Nho is on it? Barb explained that both Conrad's, Donnelly's are on, having not submitted logs since July. They
are 6 months behind. Also, Mickey Shea's report is missing but he is only late for this month. Barb emailed them
a reminder and they will get the log submitted tomorrow. As for Conrad's & Donnelly's it was determined that we
would send them certified letters with the $50 fee assessed and assess of $25/day back to 7/1/16 if their logs
aren't received within 10 business days. Joan made the motion to send Conrad's and Donnelly's Tavern the
letters with the $50 fee and to assess the $25/day penalty back to 7/1 if they are not received within 10
business days. Joe seconded. Vote taken was unanimous.
===PAGE 3===
- Respectfully
