===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PUBLIC COMMENT - none
CURRENT BUSINESS
Tilton Ave update - Carl went through the WMP-Phase 1 Tier 1 & 2 analysis shows Tilton Ave. as a needs area. Phase 3 also identified Tilton as
a needs area, but in Phase 4 there was a recommendation to drop Tilton Ave. The sewer commission had a workshop and an outcome was that "it
may be possible to remove this area from the map and keep the capacity in reserve" because of gravel and ability to support septic. The area was
removed because of a prior survey (no documentation found) and Lunenburg had a capacity issue at that time. After reviewing data for the area, Carl
recommended putting the area back into the needs area. With the okay of the Sewer Commission chairman, Cari sent his analysis to Kevin Olson
and Matt Corbin at Wright Pierce. They said they could do another analysis for $5,000 to $7,000 but it was not necessary. John supports presenting
it to the town and asked about dimensions of the lot.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: John R.
To Submit a Warrant Article to add area on Tilton Ave, back into Sewer Service Area,
Vote: Unanimous
The commission advised the Spragues that a private extension is straight forward, but if they go the betterment route, the
Commission would need to do a survey of the residents and put in a warrant article for the Town Meeting in May. Audra asked for the survey to be
done, since only 2 people on the street have fairly new septic systems and the rest go back to 1960's. Barb will put together a letter and send to the
Commission for review. Commission discussed figures for the letter and the process of getting a warrant in place.
FY19 BUDGET - Barb reported that the preliminary figures were given to Heather. Carl would like the budget to break even and be able to put
something away into capital reserve. John pointed out that Fitchburg and Leominster costs are going up and asked about the process if they needed
to raise rates. Commission discussed how to offset increases in Fitchburg & Leominster rates and options for the issues with the irrigation meters,
including implementing a $ 50/year meter fee offset meter reading costs and other administrative costs unique to irrigation meter users (~80 out of
-800 customers) which was discussed and agreed. The Sewer Commission made further adjustments to line items to balance the budget which
included the Capital Reserve transfer of $22,000. The Commission agreed to further discuss irrigation meters fees and problems at a future meeting.
Second: John R.
To approve the break-even budget including a capital fund amount of $ 22,000 to be set aside.
Vote: Unanimous
Fitchburg rate meeting - Car will be going to tomorrow's meeting. FY18 Spending - Barb referred to a spreadsheet of current balances.
Discussion followed on working on the Irrigation meter issue with money available for FY18 and also the Small Water (SWSS) list of spare parts.
Barb received more information from John (SWSS) that she will send out. Cari suggested looking at buying compatible parts, so they don't have to
have a lot of parts for different pumps. Joe suggested having SWSS come to next meeting to discuss the parts list. Barb will have SWSS and
confirmed that they have the irrigation rep come to the March 13 meeting. DPW Systems update - Small Water, Task 1 - Carl has a list of
questions and Barb has forwarded them to Jack. Flow to Billing usage- (the 1/l) - Carl suggesting they need to talk to Flow Assessment. Barb will
invite Flow Assessment to the March 13 meeting. Communications workshop - The Commission discussed setting up the special meeting with
all commissioners, Barb, Jack, Heather. Heather had requested that counsel be invited. The Sewer Commission discussed whether counsel would
need to be there and decided against it, also considering that it would be billable time. Joe would like to have the meeting focus on work, not rehash
old issues, coming up with a process and moving forward. Joe prefers that this meeting be referred to as a "process plan workshop. Thursday,
March 20h was suggested and Barb will send the invitation out to check everyone's availability. Billing Outsourcing status - Ine Sewer
commission is waiting for day and time from Northern Data for a conference call including the Accountant and Collector. Barb feels that Billing will
still involve the same amount of time-- verifying readings, new connections, and change of ownership. The new process only saves time with data
entry but will take more coordination with the Collector and monitoring 2 utility billing systems. The Sewer Commission will still pursue looking at the
cost and time, FY17 Annual report - Barb asked if everyone had reviewed it and that she will be sending it in to Elaine Peterson (BOS) for the
February 15' deadline.
Grease Trap Regulation Compliance -Whalom Kitchen- Barb met with counsel and was told that the Sewer Commission should not forgive the
non-compliance fee assessed to the previous owner but can pursue it through the property owner, LTN Realty Trust. Per the Sewer Use
Regulations, the properly owner and business owner are equally responsible. The annual permit is still valid, but they need to reapply for July 1st. It
was determined that the Commission would send LTN a letter that fees are still outstanding and they are still responsible for the $1400.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: John R.
To notify the owner that they are now responsible for the fine they levied on the Ugly Omelet.
Vote: Unanimous
1st Tuesday reports - Barb has 2 non-compliant accounts and will begin the process.
Minutes - Barb read an email from Joan received today regarding edits and opinions in the minutes and approving the minutes as originally
submitted. Commission discussed and agreed to not have opinions in the minutes. Carl stated that "opinions" that are stated in the meeting are OK
to have in the minutes. Minutes of 1/30/18 will be moved to the next meeting so ail can read them.
Motion: John R.
To accept minutes of 12/5/17 as edited.
Motion: John R.
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Second: Carl L.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: John R.
Second: Carl L.
To Adjourn: 8:59pm
Vote: Unanimous
Next Commission activities- 2/27/18-meeting- Town Hall, 3/8 - FinCom Budget Presentation -Town Hall, 3/12 - Caucus at Turkey Hill School, 3/13-
meeting-DPW
ame h Pare,
Tave:
RECEIVED & FILED
Jane Ranley
(Sewer Commission Board Clerk
On file: Joan Pease email of 2/13/18
Review Document with attachments prepared by Carl Luck:
Tilton Ave: Follow-up on Resident Request for Tilton Ave to be added to Sewer Service Area
ARR 1 / 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
