===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
i can a reason to ta do can can ta ta ta va sa pe to be inspected every o monus and
pumped once a year, unless the Commission requires more frequent pumping. The Commission told Sean to have the trap pumped in
3 months (11/13/18) and to come back to a Commission meeting with the documentation for the August and November inspections.
Sean also added that he has sold the business to Mr. Matta and he would like to resolve the issue of outstanding fines. The
Commission discussed the fines and Sean's request to cease future fining.
Motion: Joan P.
To cease any fining of Sean Patricks after 8/14/18.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
PUBLIC COMMENT - none
CURRENT BUSINESS
Evaluation of past Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) work - will be discussed at a future meeting with Carl.
ZBA Hearing on 380/390/400 Electric Ave 8/22/18- Dan Proctor is going before the ZBA on 8/22/18 with his proposal to create 2 lots.
station with a drive-up donut shop. There will be a shared driveway. twil not involve the easement but Danmay have future plans to
do something with the area behind car wash.
Irrigation/Manual Meters - vendor references, counsel input - Stiles Company references -- Joan found that the wireless meters
take less bandwidth than a text message. She talked to the Shirley water department who tested the meters first in areas of town with
poor signals and had no problems, because the meters transfer information during the night. She also contacted the Northboro water
department and they had no problems, even though some of the meters needed to be put on a different signal. Leicester needed to
replace hand-held readers and decided to go with the new technologies. She also contacted Cherry Valley water. Northboro
Interraces with Munis and the others use different billing companies. Stiles will give a training course, provide a data bridge and give
technical support. Joan added that everyone she talked to raved about Scott at Stiles. Ti Sales references - Joan called Tom's
references but found some of the numbers not reachable. She talked to Leominster, who has a partial installation. They do not receive
any extra data as they still rely on workers going out to check things. Stoneham has used the meters since 2012 and they love them.
They keep written data and they pay 4 workers to do the readings. Webster has been using the meters for 15 years and they said the
meter company offers good support. They bought the extra package for data and the billing interface is very good. Joan would be in
favor of the wireless system. John would like to find out where the poor signal areas are in town and Joan replied that Scott (Stiles)
should be able to help. Joan said that both systems would require training, which is offered. John thanked Joan for her report.
FY 19 Legal fees billing basis - will be moved to the next meeting. Fitchburg J.F. Highway Project - final costs, payment
schedule - John encouraged all to read it and if anyone has questions, bring them to the next meeting and forward them on to
Fitchburg. Grease Traps- Regulation Compliance - 1st Tuesday report - John will talk to Barb about fine letters for Bad Larry's and
Kobobelicious. Minutes of 7/31/18 - will be discussed at next meeting. Privilege fee - 63 Prospect Street - John reported that Barb
checked with town counsel and the fee is $11,551.47. Commission signed the Sewer Order #19 and the privilege fee for 63 Prospect
St. Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - vote on irrigation meters, evaluation of past I/l work, Legal billing, 7/31 Minutes, JF
Highway Project, ZBA meeting on Electric Ave, report on 2 grease trap violators.
Public Comment - Joan would like to consider that others may be telling the Commission they may need a Communication Policy. It
was a consensus to not have a policy but not a vote. She suggested that the Commission could work on group dynamics. John will
suggest to Joe to discuss it again.
Motion: Joan P.
To Adjourn: 7:33pm.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted
one 4. Konle
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
