===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
through the internal grease trap and questioned whether grease is rinsing down the drain or if it is going into the external interceptor.
Also, regarding the interceptor, Carl said that the inspector questioned whether the pipe was pitched properly and suggested inspecting
it further. John L. replied that there has not been any problems and it is working correctly. Joe suggested adding the discussion as a
future agenda item.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To give waivers as John Londa requested to clean the internal grease traps at the High School twice per year, external grease
trap once per year, and the internal grease traps at Turkey Hill Elementary and Lunenburg Primary twice per year, as
amended without contingencies.
Vote: Unanimous
CURRENT BUSINESS
Evaluation of past Inflow/Infiltration (/I) work- Commission discussed Carl's handout of scope of work for evaluation of I/l work
done. Commission agreed to have Carl contact 2 or 3 engineering firms to meet with the Commission at a future time to discuss doing
an evaluation. Policy update discussions-Manual meter Policy. Carl talked to Town Counsel about the sub-metering issue.
Counsel is looking into it and will get back to the Commission with advice. He also advised that and that the Commission should
develop a formal sub-metering policy. Waiver clause - commission is awaiting Town counsel input. FY19 Legal fees - Billing basis
- Commission is waiting for an answer from Town Manager concerning the flat rate. Grease Traps-Regulation Compliance -
Outstanding issue - Sean Patricks - Barb sent a letter of non-compliance with a $50 fee assessed and not had a response from
Sean Patricks.
Motion: Ryan S.
To go back to 7/1/18 to assess $25/day fee for non-compliance.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb reported that the Annual Permits are all set and 1st Tuesday reports have all come in.
Minutes of 7/10/18-
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To accept the minutes of 7/10/18.
Vote: Unanimous
MWRA Notice for Town of Ashland- Commission reviewed notice and no action was necessary. Flow Assessment meeting
attendance representative - Commission will invite Paul Casey (Flow Assessment) to come to the August 28th meeting.
Barb reported that she received information from Fitchburg about the John Fitch Highway Expenses and discussion will be put on the
agenda tor next meeting. Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - School grease traps, Maintenance plan and documentation
policies, Business Manager supervision responsibility.
Public Comment - Ryan met with Jack at DPW to learn about the system. Joe was contacted by the Town Manager regarding the
Commission's decision to not have a Communication Policy and he asked her to come to a meeting but has not heard back from her.
3 Mather backing her.
Joe will contact Jack about Mass. Ave. manhole status. Barb will be looking at the Munis quote in mid-August.
Motion: John R.
To Adjourn: 7:20 pm.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted
only
que
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Handouts
Carl L. suggested scope for I/l evaluation
Carl L. list of discussion points for Flow Assessment
