===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
sewer usage invoice of the new fiscal year. The Irrigation meter reading will be deducted from the water reading and a credit will be
given in the July and October billing. He added that the Commission will be selecting a new irrigation meter and users will need to
comply by June 2020. Also a licensed plumber must pull a plumbing permit for any installations.
Public Comment-Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, had questions about when the policy and fee go into effect. Joe replied it would
be February 1, 2019. Dave is concerned since the Commission has not selected a new meter, there is no way for homeowners to
comply and he has been holding off on installing a new meter. He also questioned how the $50 fee was determined. Barb replied that
the fee does not cover all expenses relating to irrigation meters but helps to defray the costs. Commission clarified that they are looking
at options using new meter technology.
Single meter policy - new policy on restriction of sub-meters - Joe read the updated Single Use Meter policy, that states effective
Ipdated Single Use Meter policy, that states effective
2/1/19, sewer accounts will only be in the official property owner's name and the Commission will no longer read submeters.
Public Comment -Karen Carnavale, Whalom Village - asked if the $50 will be charged for the now single meter that we will be
reading and Commission clarified that the $50 fee is only for Irrigation Meters.
Connection Charge Policy with new Inflow/Infiltration (I/l) requirements - Ryan read the addition of the 'l/l Removal and/or
Capacity Fee' language to the Connection Charge Policy for new connections to the sewer that have flows exceeding 15,000 gals/day.
The Capacity fee will be used towards reduction of I/l studies and remediation.
Grease Trap Rules & Regulations- various clarifications including fee calculations and timing of assessments,
responsibilities of owners/operators and reasons for non-renewal - Joan read the changes to the Grease Trap Regulations. The
permit effective date was changed from July 1st to August 1st, with fees based on food establishment's compliance in the previous year.
No renewal application will be accepted or processed for a property with outstanding, unpaid fees or penalties and the two-week
requirement for assessing non-compliance fees was removed.
The public hearing for Policy Updates was closed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
The Commission needed to vote on Policy Updates to formally accept the changes.
Irrigation Meter Policy - Change to Sewer Use Regs Article VII-3D(2), Appendix K
Motion: Ryan S.
Second: Joan P.
Discussion: John said he supports the $50 fee but he cannot vote to approve the new policy without knowing which meter will be
chosen. Barb noted that the changes are general without specifying the new meter. Commission discussed the selection of the new
meter in regards to the policy changes.
To approve the Irrigation Meter Policy changes.
Vote: Joe and John- opposed, Joan and Ryan - aye
The Irrigation policy change was tabled.
Single Meter Policy- Addition Sewer Use Regs Article VII-3(B)
Motion: John R.
To accept the Single Meter Policy as written.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Connection Charge Policy - Change to Sewer Use Regs Article VII-4, Appendix G
Motion: Joan P.
To change the Connection Charge Policy.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Grease Trap Rules & Regulations- Changes to Appendix C
Motion: Joan P.
To approve the Grease Trap Regulation changes.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
ANNOUNCEMENTS- Barb-Q2 bills were sent out and can be paid online. If anyone hadn't received their bill, they can call either the
===PAGE 2===
comment trom Carl Luck, highlighting that the Attorney General agreed with Town Counsel and that the Commission was commended
for taking action to rectify the violation.
Commission signed the Q1 FY19 Commitment for Sewer Billing for $219,704.52.
Minutes - 11/6/18
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes of 11/6/18.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Joe A, John R. and Ryan- aye. Joan P.- abstain
Business Manager report - 1st Tuesday report -Barb reported all are compliant. Commission reviewed the Fitchburg Monthly bill
and Leominster Quarterly Invoices. The Transfer Delinquencies are not done yet because they are waiting for rates to be
approved. FY19 Recap - Barb will be doing up a letter for Karen. Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - selecting new
Irrigation Meter,
Public Comment - Barb had sent out the sewer connection process for the MRPC guidebook to the Planning Board.
Motion: Joan P.
To Adjourn: 7:18 pm.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted,
-one
h.
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
/
