===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
credits will be given in the July and October billings. Any additional readings caused by mis-reads or meter malfunction will incur a $25
fee. Also, by June 2019, all existing meters will need to be upgraded to a new preferred meter, which has not yet been selected.
Single meter policy-new policy on restriction of sub-meters - Joe read the proposed single meter policy, that the Commission will only
use the meter readings by the water supplier for the record property owner. Any reading of individual or sub-meters will be the
responsibility of the property owners
Connection Charge Policy- with Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) requirements - John gave a definition of Inflow/Infiltration and read the changes
in the Connection Charge Policy wording that all involve 1/1. New section was added for the Removal and/or Capacity Fee for new
connections that exceed 15,000 gallons/day which will be used towards reduction of I/l as required by DEP.
Grease Trap Rules & Regulations-various clarifications including fee calculations and timing of assessments, responsibilities of
od staponminis, Which
owners/operators and reasons for non-renewal - Joe read changes to the Grease Trap Regulations for Food Establishments, which
included re-wording the annual permit fee section. The Annual Permit applications will be due 30 days August 1st instead of July 1.
Renewals will not be processed if there are outstanding fees due. Barb added for the TV audience that anyone can view these policy
changes on the town website under "What's New". The next public hearing will be November 27.
ANNOUNCEMENTS -
none
PUBLIC COMMENT - none
CURRENT BUSINESS
Special Town Meeting 11/13/18 warrant article - Barb reported that there is one warrant article regarding the transfer of the Reserve
Capacity funds collected to the Stabilization Fund. Due to the Town meeting being held on the regular meeting night, the next Sewer
Commission Meeting will be 11/6/18.
Inflow/Infiltration (I/i) Evaluation RFP -proposed changes to Scope - Commission will discuss Carl's proposed changes to the Scope
of work at the 11/6 meeting. Carl talked to Town Counsel who said that the scope draft could be posted on the town's website and it
would not be an open meeting violation. Barb had talked to Town Counsel as well but that it is usually an accepted practice and
wanted the Commission to approve of this before posting. Commission decided to put the discussion of this issue on the next agenda,
when all members are present for a consensus.
Maintenance Plan proposal and vendor list - Barb had forwarded Carl's proposed Maintenance Plan proposal with the Town
Manager as requested. Heather made suggestions, including concerns with calling it a Maintenance Plan versus Capital Plan.
Commission discussed maintenance being done currently and the need to document maintenance performed. Commission will review
the revised proposal verbiage at the next meeting and will then send it out to 9 vendors.
Privilege Fee Assessment - 654 Mass Ave.
Motion: Carl L.
To access the privilege fee for 654 Mass Ave for $17,327.20.
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes 10/9/18
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes of 10/9/18.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Proposed changes to the l/l scope, Maintenance plan, posting of draft changes to the
website, manholes, business manager updates at meetings. Public Comment - none
Motion: John R.
To Adjourn: 7:21 pm.
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
respectively sumitted,
lane L. Calen
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
