===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
discussed the Privilege Fee for a private extension.
Motion: Carl L.
To accept the minutes of 6/12/18 as amended.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
FY18 Legal expense consideration - Commission discussed the legal expense funds left for FY18 and tabled the discussion until the
next meeting when all FY18 encumbrances will be discussed.
APPOINTMENTS-
Adam Costa, Town Counsel - Open Meeting Law Training - Adam gave a comprehensive slide presentation overview of the Open
Meeting Law and answered questions from the Commissioners during the presentation.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Workshop - Communications plan discussed - Heather L. passed out a draft of a communications policy.
1. Commission discussed having a liaison to work with Jack and agreed that it would be the chair. Joan requested that the liaison
acknowledge receipt of any requests from Commissioners.
2. Commission agreed that if anyone wants their opinion shared at meeting, it will be given to Barb as a written communication to be
handed out and read at the meeting.
3. Commission discussed a policy for communications with Contractors and Consultants. The policy will be that any communications
will be discussed by the Commission first and decided as a group who will make the contact and what will be communicated.
Commission also discussed work site visits.
4. Commissions discussed and agreed that any requests for agenda items should be sent to the chair.
5. Commission agreed that the chair or a selected representative, acting on behalf of the Commission, will need the agreement of
the full board by vote to include the full parameters for the contact.
6. All agreed to comply fully with the Open Meeting Law.
7. When Commission wants a legal opinion, Barb will be the one to get an official legal opinion from counsel. One or 2 members can
meet counsel during open office hours with questions.
8. Commission discussed Barb's time. Agenda items will be sent to the chair. Questions about day to day tasks can be brought to
a meeting instead of contacting Barb between meetings.
9. Commission discussed use of social media.
10. Carl reviewed the email communication policy for selectmen, Section 2.04 of their Policies and Procedures. Heather read the full
email policy and the Commission agreed to add it to the communication policy.
11. Commission discussed communications related to the supervision of the Business Manager, i.e. goal setting reviews, comp time
and work schedule. The Business Manager job description states that both the Sewer Commission and DPW Director supervise
the Business Manager. Town Charter supersedes any job description and states that the Town Manager supervises the Business
Manager's personnel issues and day to day operations which was confirmed by Town's labor counsel and the Commission has
no particular say in those issues. Any issues concerning the Business Manager could be discussed at a meeting and then the
chair would go to the Town Manager or DPW Director.
Heather will send out the communications policy draft. Commission will review, edit as necessary and vote on it at a future meeting.
FY19 FLOW ASSESSMENT CONTRACT Joe signed the contract. Barb confirmed that they are planning to come to an August
meeting.
Commission signed the revised Q3 FY18 Commitment for the Sewer Billing to correct an error in the amount. New amount is
$174,579.03 (previously $174,704.83).
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- On July 10t, Joan will give her revisions to grease trap regs and a report on references
for Badger Irrigation Meters. Commission also asked Joan to pursue references for the Neptune Meters. Other agenda items:
===PAGE 2===
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Handouts
Communications Policy Draft from Heather L.
Selectmen's rules regarding email communications (Section 2.04)
Letter sent by Heather L. regarding legal expenses
