===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
what the town would like to do. Carl replied that the Commission is looking at a number of regulation changes. The Commission has
been paying someone to go out to read each trailer meter at an added cost plus there have been a number of problems with the
meters. Carl added that there will be 2 open hearings about the regulation changes in October and November. One of the changes
proposed is an annual $50 fee for any meter that the Commission would need to have read. Mike asked questions regarding the
meters and the connection fee. Mike's father and original owner of the Park, Jim Carnivale, explained how the meters were originally
installed when the park was hooked up to sewer. Barb confirmed that the trailer park is the only location that has the manual meters
that need to be read to produce the quarterly sewer bills. Carl suggested that Mike could read the meters and then determine each
person's share. The Commission discussed the meter upgrade options and costs for the trailer park. Mike asked about the connection
fees and noted that they also have to pay a re-connection fee when a trailer is replaced. Joan added that the Commission needs to
consider the costs to all the users. The Commission and the Carnivale's discussed asking Leominster to install & read each trailer's
water meter and send the readings to the Sewer Commission. Carl said the lowest cost to their tenants would be to use the current
Leominster water readings for sewer usage. There was a discussion about the betterment fees charged when the trailer park was
hooked up for sewer. The Carnivale's will check with Leominster Water.
PUBLIC COMMENT - none
CURRENT BUSINESS
Irrigation Meters - selection, implementation discussions - Joan called the Lunenburg Water department and found that they are
using Neptune meters, with no problems. In regards to the references she contacted, the cellular users were happy with their systems,
had no issue with dead zones and some can interface with Munis for billing. Joan added that the Water Department did not have any
plans to upgrade to a cellular system. Barb reported that the town plumbing inspector, Gary Williams, said that the majority of meters
he has inspected and installed are Badger meters. The Commission discussed ways to determine what irrigation meters are in use
currently and costs to users for the upgrades. Policy Changes - Irrigation- Commission discussed edits to the Irrigation Policy, and
the plumbing permits for installation. Manual Meters -The Commission discussed counsel's input and that it will need to be part of the
nearing. Connection Charge policy has been discussed. Grease Trap Rules & Regulations- Commission reviewed the chandes
already agreed upon to present at the hearing. Sewer Use Regs new Waiver clause - Barb said that it was Town Counsel's input that
there should be wording regarding situations that did not fit the regulation where the Commission could make a ruling for whatever
served the best interest of the Town. Carl had some concerns and wants to discuss this further when all Commission members are
present.
Special Town Meeting November 13 - warrant articles- Barb said that the Warrant closes 10/9 and the article would be for
stabilization funds transfers.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Ryan S.
To submit the Stabilization Funds Transfer warrants, with the correct numbers to be added prior to the 10/9 closing date.
Vote: Unanimous
Evaluation of past Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) work- update - Barb has sent the links to the l/l information on the Google Drive to the 3
engineering companies and the invitation to come to the next meeting but has had no response, so she will send out reminders. Barb
talked to Jack and Small Water about obtaining pump station run-times if the engineers need them since it will take time to obtain. The
time period for this data was discussed. Maintenance Plan discussion - Commission discussed having Barb send out a 2-line RFQ
to SWSS, Weston Sampson, Wright Pierce, Woodward & Curran, Stantec, Suez, & Tighe Bond. FY19 Legal fees- billing basis
update- Commission discussed the 9/18 joint meeting with the Selectmen and Town Manager. Carl said that the Commission needs to
have the rate for budgeting purposes. The Town Manager's email said that the sewer legal history would determine the budget. The
Commission discussed determining the average rate from FY18 and having Barb and Heather discuss the rate for budgeting. Billing
Outsourcing - update and discussion - Barb reported that Northern Data had provided the file layout to Munis but that we're still
waiting on a number from Munis.
Minutes of 9/11/18 - Carl had a question about one statement. Commission will review and vote on the 9/11 and 9/18 minutes at the
next meeting
Upcoming Meetings and proposed topics - 10/9 --Engineering firms, 10/30-- Public Hearing, 11/13--Budget, 11/27—2nd Public
===PAGE 2===
Sane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
