===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
To approve moving forward on the extension for 146 Lancaster Road based on the engineering plan provided.
Vote: Unanimous
Bill wants to get all his approvals/permits, work on the structure during the winter and connect in the spring.
PUBLIC COMMENT and ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
CURRENT BUSINESS
Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) Evaluation RFQ discussion- Commission reviewed Car's proposed changes to the scope and procurement
process. The Commission agreed with changes and will need to turn it into a formal RFQ before sending to the 5 companies chosen.
Policy and process discussion regarding Posting of Draft Policies/Documents to website prior to Commission
review/approval-Commission discussed posting documents/draft policies on the website and agreed that it cannot be for sharing
opinions. If documents are discussed at a meeting, it can be added to the website for Commissioner's review. Otherwise, documents
should be sent to the Chair first. Maintenance Plan- proposed RFQ, vendor list -Carl had shared 2 samples for the Commission to
review. Commission discussed what should be included in the plan for routine maintenance and repairs. They also discussed the list of
vendors and the initial statement will be sent out to Wright Pierce, Weston Sampson, SWSS and On-Site. In the meantime, the
Commission will work on refining the sample plan.
FY20 Budget discussion/schedule-Commission discussed the list of budget deadlines from last year and the reasoning for sending
the budget to FinCom. Barb will confirm the budget deadlines with Heather and Karen. Anticipated expense discussions --
Commission discussed tasks required of the DPW manager and feasibility of outsourcing some tasks. Commission agreed to have a
discussion with DPW Manager and Town Manager. They also discussed the cost calculations for office space, liability insurance,
accounting and treasurer services. The Commission agreed to get justification for costs from the town. Regarding funding OPEB
(retirement insurance fund), Commission will discuss the amount funded and have a policy. Fitchburg payments - Barb reported the
payment will be $20,900 over 20 years. Legal expenses-Commission discussed the expectations for calculating the F20 legal budget,
based on hours used last year and the hourly rate from the town. The full budgeted amount would be given to the town at the beginning
of year and any litigation costs would be additional. Joe will contact Heather to discuss the budget expenses and get clarification.
Policy Update from Public Hearing - Irrigation Meter Policy - Commission discussed edits to the policy and will start the $50 annual
fee in the first quarterly billing of the fiscal year (July). Commission discussed the new meter requirement and the selection of the new
meter system. It was decided to change the deadline from June 2019 to June 2020 for users to have compatible meters and change
the effective date of the policy to February 1, 2019. Single meter policy - Commission discussed changes and decided the effective
date will be February 1, 2019. Barb will send out letters to the users affected. Connection Policy- is all set. Commission agreed on
removing the percentage language on the Grease Trap Regulation. Updated Town Charter review- Commission discussed the
update for the Sewer Commission as it relates to the supervision of the Business Manager. Joe will speak with Heather. Barb noted
additional hearings will be held by the Charter Review Committee.
Privilege Fee Assessment - 77 Upland Avenue- private extension - $6,998. 74
Motion: Carl L.
To assess privilege fee of $6,998.74 for 77 Upland Avenue
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes for Approval
Motion: John R.
To accept minutes for 10/30/18 meeting.
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Carl, Joe and John-aye, Ryan - abstain
Business Manager Report - 1st Tuesday report- Barb will report next meeting. Bill Outsourcing- Barb reported she had gotten the
contract from Northern Data that she forwarded to counsel. It came back with alot of edits that Barb will forward on to Northern Data.
Transfer to Delinquency-Barb has had lots of calls from residents regarding this process and will be transferring delinquencies on to
tax rolls once the billing is out. Barb just received today the permitting guidebook from the Planning Board for the Montachusett
Regional Planning Commission. They are looking for each department's input, so she will put the proposed update for the Commission
on the website. Fitchburg Invoice for $16,929.36 was reviewed. Barb also reported that the work on John Street and the Task 1 that
===PAGE 2===
Respectively submitted,
Cane 4
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
"Panly
