===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
give all 3 the data and if they are still interested, have them come in to meet with the Commission. After discussion, the Commission
agreed to have all 3 companies come in one meeting and tentatively picked the 1st meeting in October. Barb will contact them.
FY20 Budget - preliminary discussion - Commission discussed the budget process and agreed to discuss the budget in 1st meeting
in November. Irrigation Meters - update on suppliers, selection, policy, implementation - Barb reported that Scott is now with
FW Webb and the new rep for Stiles is lan Kasowitz. Stiles has the only cellular system. Small Water (SWSS) is doing the readings
currently. Carl added that there will be an annual fee for Irrigation meters that will help pay for getting the meter readings. Joan replied
that the drive by meters will be thing of the past and all the references thought that the cellular data was phenomenal. Joan will talk to
the Lunenburg Water Department to see what their future plans are. The Commission discussed how any changes could impact costs
to the users. Barb will ask the Badger & Neptune companies about the costs to the homeowners. Manual meter policy - counsel
input - Counsel recommends changing the meter regulations first. The Commission discussed the regulation change and having a
public hearing for the meter changes. Commission agreed with Counsel's suggested wording for the regulation and discussed inviting
the affected residents to the hearings. Barb will talk to Mike Carnivale, trailer park owner, since he had asked to be kept updated on the
policy change discussion. Fitchburg-John Fitch Highway - Cost Sharing review - Commission discussed the review and all
agreed that it was ok. The corrected cost for Lunenburg is $342,770. Barb will ask Fitchburg what the proposed payment schedule will
be. Open Space & Recreation - Commission update - Commission discussed and agreed on the draft for the update relating to the
Sewer in the Open Space Plan, adding wording that any resident can petition to expand the sewer area. John left the meeting
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Ryan S.
To accept the draft, adding that the Commission will entertain resident petitions to expand the sewer area, with town meeting
approval.
Vote: Unanimous
Joe arrived and assumed the running of the meeting
DPW Systems update - Joe met with Jack and reported that the John St. repair will be done in the fall and the Jetting has been done.
The replacement parts have been ordered and they are coming in. The Pump station flow analysis can be looked at with the data from
Flow Assessment. Jack does not have a manhole list of repairs but can put one together. Commission discussed the list and Joe will
request a list from Jack. Regarding the Elizabeth Ave issue, Joe reported that Clean Basins was unable to the camera the lines when
they came to clean. Carl suggested asking counsel about requesting the homeowner to have someone camera the line. Joe asked Carl
to check with town counsel. Joe noted Jack's suggestion that he may not have a lot of time so the Commission may need to expand
the scope of work with SWSS when planning the budget. FY19 Legal fees - billing basis - BOS meeting 9/18- Commission
discussed their legal budget and how the billing for town counsel's services is determined. The Commission agreed to send Joe to the
Board of Selectmen meeting to discuss the legal fees and propose paying the full budget allotment of $5000 for FY 19.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To have Joe go to the Board of Selectmen, stating that the Commission will give them the full $5,000 budgeted line item
monies for the Sewer Commission FY19 legal needs.
Vote: Unanimous
Billing Outsourcing -awaiting Munis quote - Barb confirmed with IT that the quote as submitted was correct. We are waiting on
Munis for the quote. Special Town Meeting November 13, 2018 - Commission will need to add a warrant for the stabilization funds
transfer for FY18 now that year-end balances are final.
Sewer Commission meeting schedule discussion - Commission discussed options for meeting nights but no changes were made.
Minutes - 8/28/18 - Discussion - In regards to the School's external grease trap, Joe said Jack will go the next time the trap is
pumped with a level. Carl wanted the word "confirmed" changed to "believed."
Motion: Ryan S.
Second: Carl L.
To accept the minutes of 8/28/18 as amended.
Vote: Joe A., Carl L., Ryan S.- Aye, Joan P.- abstained.
MWRA Inter-basin Transfer-Ashland- Barb said that it is a notification for water and sewer department and no action was required.
Remote Participation Policy -Commission had received a revised policy from Heather. Carl reported that the policy change dealt
with eliminating the restriction on percentage of meetings that a member can participate by remote participation.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - maintenance plan RFQ, public hearings, budget discussion
===PAGE 2===
free are
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
