===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Carl brought up a concern about having Elizabeth St. checked with a camera to check for a leak and Pat suggested having it checked
the next time the town had a contractor, with the capability to camera the laterals, in town to jet the lines. Pat will make the edits to the
DEP Response draft and submit it.
Motion: Ryan S
Second: John R.
To accept the response to the DEP as discussed.
Vote: Unanimous
Commission discussed the wording proposed by Weston & Sampson for the 4:1 I/l removal and/or capacity fee policy and made
changes. The town counsel will be asked to review it.
Bob Proctor, Lancaster Ave, extension request - Bob has a homeowner at 146 Lancaster Ave. that wants to tie in to sewer.
Homeowner will approach neighbors to see if they want to participate in the private extension. Commission discussed the privilege fee
for a private extension and will get a clarification from town counsel. Bob is looking to get the okay to proceed, getting an engineered
plan and the Commission agreed he can go forward
Kim Chen, Whalom Kitchen, non-compliance fee appeal - Kim received the letter dated 9/12/17 with list of fees, when she became
involved with the property after January 1st. The Commission discussed the history of the fees and communications to the former
business owners and Richard Bursch who owns the property. Barb provided the letter sent today to Richard and Kim with Counsel's
input regarding payment of the non-compliance fee. Kim said that she will pay the annual permit fee to use the sewer but asked for a
reduction of the $1,400 non-compliance fee assessed. Also, she is in the process of selling the business and would like to settle the
fees so she can pass the business on. Commission discussed reducing the non-compliance fee since the violation occurred and fee
assessed long before she took ownership. Several different payment amounts were proposed until all present could agree to the $900
amount. Commission wants letter sent to Richard Bursch (landlord) regarding the settlement, stating that in the future he will be held
responsible for any fees assessed for any building he owns.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Ryan S.
To settle the non-compliance fee for $900, with immediate payment.
Vote: Unanimous
CURRENT BUSINESS
Policy update discussions-Irrigation Meter - annual charge, manual meters, installation requirements - It was suggested that
the Commission combine all the documents relating to meters into one policy and that wording is added that no credits should be given
for any meters determined to be taulty, with maintenance being the homeowner's responsibility. Commission discussed the timing of
irrigation meter billing and having the yearly fee deducted from the meter credit rather than being billed separately. Joan offered to call
the references provided by the new irrigation meter proposals to get feedback on customer experiences and Commission agreed.
Commission discussed the Irrigation and Manual meters at the trailer parks and it was proposed that the Commission have an agenda
Item to discuss water meters at tuture meeting. Grease Trap Regulation change - notification and renewal timing - Commission
reviewed suggested updates to the Rules and Regulations for Grease traps and made changes to wording, with inputs from town
counsel. The Commission had no issue with Barb's request to change the permit fees due date to 8/1 due to time constraints with the
current //1 deadline. A draft will be reviewed at the //10 meeting. Sewer Regs - Inflow/Infiltration requirements for large projects.
Commission discussed the 4:1 I/l removal and/or capacity fee relating to its incorporation into the Sewer Regs. Barb will talk with
counsel. Public Hearings for Regulation changes - Commission will need to approve draft policies at the first meeting in July to
present it during the July & August televised meetings to have them go into effect in August. Commission also will discuss revisions to
the Connection Charge policy at the July 10th meeting. OML Complaint - 5/11/18 response - Commission had received a copy of the
response prepared by Counsel. Quarterly flow comparison - Commission reviewed the data and noted that it still indicates a large
amount of water. There is a concern with the inconsistency of the meter readings. Commission agreed that the meters and/or the data
from the Water Department could be a problem. Flow Assessment will be asked to come to a meeting to discuss data.
Minutes of 5/29/18
Motion: Joan P.
To accept minutes for 5/29/18.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Contract Renewals-SWSS Year 3 - Debbie of SWSS had no changes. Commission will suggest meeting with SWSS twice/year,
===PAGE 2===
Motion: John R.
To Adjourn: 8:43 pm.
Respectively submitted,
love 2. Carly
ne Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Hand-outs
SSES table
6/12/18 Letter from Counsel re. Whalom Kitchen
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
