===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
would receive a check one resulton dilan be nestors gone was digge
present.
6:45pm Small Water Systems Services (SWSS) Quarterly update - Al Packard reported that everything is operational and
maintenance is being done on schedule, including some repairs. Commission reviewed the parts lists for the pumps provided by
SWSS. Al said that they have 14 Flygt pumps in use and the manufacturer has a 6 month lead time. Commission discussed the
various pumps in use, their age and the options for backup if a pump goes down. Jack asked the Commission to decide how much
they can budget for the parts and he can meet with SWSS to put together a prioritized list for Commission to decide which parts to
purchase.
ANNOUNCEMENTS- Q3 bills were sent out on the 16th. Town Caucus is on March 12' at Turkey Hill Elementary School.
PUBLIC COMMENT -Troy said that he is running for re-election as Sewer Commissioner. Bob Ebersole, passed out copies of the
complaint of a violation of the Open Meeting Law for the Business Manager distributing information containing member's opinions and
for not filing minutes timely after a meeting. There was no discussion.
CURRENT BUSINESS
DPW Systems update - I/l Discussion- Task 1- Jack spoke to Weston & Sampson and they are ready to move it into the
procurement pipeline. Commission discussed the list of questions that Carl put together regarding Task 1 and how to move forward.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
To accept the Task 1 report as written and begin work on that.
Discussion: Carl brought up concerns about problems in the RFQ.
Vote: Joan, Troy & Joe-aye, Carl- nay
FY 18 Spending -- Commission discussed priorities for using the balance of the F18 budgeted money, taking into account the
purchase of spare parts recommended by SWSS, I/l work and routine maintenance costs for the pump stations. Jack will contact
Weston & Sampson to get their opinion on what the next step would be on I/l after Task 1 is completed.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
To use $35,034 for the SWSS parts and move the $10,000 out of I/l, leaving $12,000, to get the Emergency Fund up to $19,000.
Vote: Joe, Joan & Troy- Aye, Carl - Nay
Maintenance Plan discussion-Commission discussed what would be required in a maintenance plan, in addition to the current
SWSS contracted maintenance, such as a jetting schedule, and other system maintenance that could be added to the schedule. Jack
will have a discussion with SWSS. Pump station analysis-Commission discussed doing a study on the life expectancy of the pump
stations in their capital plan in order to plan for the future. Tilton Ave extension discussion -Commission discussed the letter
survey to be sent out to the Tilton Ave. residents concerning a sewer extension. Residents will need to respond by March 13th. All
agreed to the edits and Barb will send out the letters. If 2/3 or more Tilton Ave. residents are interested, engineering will be needed in
order to present the extension at Town Meeting. FY19 BUDGET discussion- Barb got a revised debt schedule from the Town
Accountant, Karen Brochu. The Commission discussed the insurance costs and looking at how the amounts are determined. Barb will
be going over the final FY19 budget figures with Karen. Presentation to FinCom on 3/8 will be done by Joe and Carl. Fitchburg - CSS
4d Project Costs -John Fitch Highway - John and Carl will be going on 3/7 to the cost review meeting, Annual Town Meeting
warrant articles - Fy19 Budget, Stabilization Funds, OPEB, Tilton Ave. Barb sent out the first draft and will be meeting with Karen
Brochu. Town Caucus - March 12 at 7pm- Troy is up for re-election.
Communication Process Plan workshop- 2 options - There would be either a workshop on March 27h at the town hall in place of
the regular meeting or to meet at 5:30 to 7 on March 20'h and 27'. Barb will check with Jack, Heather Lemieux and Bob Ebersole for
their availability to attend
Minutes- Joan brought up concerns about the number of edits being made to the minutes that the Minutes Clerk has prepared and she
also thinks that emotional descriptive words should not be in the minutes. Troy agreed with Joan's comments. He was taken back by
the number of edits and that changes in words results in having to review the minutes or meeting tape causing delays in accepting the
minutes.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
To accept the minutes for 1/30/18 as originally submitted by the Minutes Clerk.
Discussion: Carl said that he thinks that Jane takes good minutes but wants them to be accurate and also that there is too much
===PAGE 2===
o have one for the next meeting. Highfield Village - Barb reported they are revising the draft agreement and should have something
for the next meeting.
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings-none
Public Comment - none
Motion: Joan P.
To Adjourn: 8:55 pm.
Second: Troy D.
Vote: Unanimous
Next Commission Activities: 318/18- FinCom Budget Presentation - Town Hall, 3112 Caucus at Turkey Hill School, 3/13- meeting -
DPW, 3/27 - meeting-Town Hail
Respectively submitted
tonet.
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 1 / 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
