===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
APPOINTMENTS-
Mary Manning, Lt 27 Mass Ave, - request forcredit. Mary contacted Barb concerning her sewer usage thathad
gone high and is requesting a credit. The water departmenthas confirmed thattherewas a leak. She is concerned
aboutthe methodology ofhow the sewer bill is determined and asked about having a meter to determine the sewer
usage. Barb said that the potential credit amount was determined by looking at the last 4 quarters and calculated as
$436.65. Her January usage had gone down significantly after the leak was fixed. Mary said that she was away in
December and her pipes broke due to the cold, but had pipes fixed. Troy asked if the water department would be giving a
credit and Barb said that the water department does not give credits for leaks. John questioned about how much was the
use of power washing? Mary said that she does not go outside for power washing but just was questioning how the usage
is determined. In regards to billing, Carl replied that the bill assumes that whatever water goes into the house then goes
down the sewer, taking into account use recorded on irrigation meters or for pool filling. Town gets billed for whatever goes
out of the town and it is only well documented exceptions that can be looked at. Troy added that everyone has some
usage that does not go down the drain, like carwashing, watering plants, etc. Carreplied thatit all gets averaged in the
rate and urged homeowners to get a copy ofthe Irrigation Meter policy from Barb. The Commissioners reviewed
Mary's usage and bills for 2016 and 2017.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy D.
To approve the potential credit that Barb has calculated following the Adjustment policy of $ 436.65. Vote: Unanimous
Audra and Graham Sprague, Tilton Ave. Extension request-Joe explained thatthe Sprague's would liketo go the
Town Meeting to request a sewer extension but needed to come before the Commission first. Audra S. researched and
found that Tilton Ave. was in the Comprehensive Master Wastewater Plan (CWMP) Phase 1 study in 2001 but was taken
off in Phase 4. She talked to Jack Rodriquenz who explained that he had gone door to door 18 years ago to see who was
interested in sewer and found most residents did not want to connectto sewer. She added that it would be too
expensive for 1 family to take on an extension. Barb replied that Jack was checking doorto door about sewer because
he was considering paving Tilton and that that may possibly be the study referenced in the WMP in the decision to
exclude Tilton. Carlsaid thatthe CWMP is based on need, did not know how Tilton Ave. was missed and supports
revisiting the need on Tilton. Joan agrees and asked aboutwhere the original engineering reportis and Barb replied
thatitis in the Seweroffice. Audra said that their septic is not in failure now but not sure how long it will work. Troy noted
that there is a long process forextensions so it may not be the practical route ifneed is immediate. Carladdedthereisa
process and first they would need to goto Town Meeting to add an article for a warrant to add it to the Sewer Service
AreaSSA). The Sprague's can start working on other things while waiting to come to Town Meeting. Carl commented
that there are 2 routes -they can go the betterment route, with whole street sharing the cost or do a private extension,
where they pay for the roadwork and a privilege fee. They would need to get 2/3 of neighbors to participate to do the
betterment but a private extension would not affect neighbors. Barb noted that March 22nd is the deadline for the Town
Meeting warrant. Carl said the Sewer Commission should do research and go back to engineering for information. Troy
asked and Carl clarified that an owner needs to prove that they cannotput in a septic on their lotin orderto be addedto
the SSA. GrahamS. stated that the lot has a stream and a drop down in the back. They currently do not have a leach
field and are using a dry well.
Motion: CarlL.
Second: Troy D.
To take action to look at the Tilton Ave. area to see if qualifies as a needs area.
Vote:
Unanimous Joan suggested that the Sprague's could go to the Conservation Commission, to get buffer zone information
and gather data on inability to perc the lot. Joe qualified that the motion involved looking at the WMP. Commission
advised the Sprague's to do some parallel work while Sewer Commission researches the plans.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Carl read a statement concerning the call for the 11/3/17 special meeting, in which his name was brought up
regarding claims that a supplierwas going to quit working with the town and that he had brought the integrity of an engineer ata
supplier into question. He got confirmation from the Town Manager that those claims were not true and that the false claims were not
made by the DPW manager. Although the claims caused him stress and anxiety, he is satisfied that the claims were proven untrue
and the Town Managerwill be working on Town personnel policy for concerns about a board member. He hopes that the
Commission can put this behind them, focus on job they were elected forand workto solve the question ofthe inconsistent
data provided by the 2 engineering firms. He thanks the Town Manager and Board of Selectmen Chair for their support. Troy would
like to put the issue on an agenda to discuss. Carl will give Barb a copy of his statement (attached as part of the minutes).
===PAGE 2===
hon ung cocarutlaru allswertng questons. hoywas surpriseu pythe pillanulelfldttilt oewer
Commission was not given a say in how this new process was set up. Carl felt itwas good to look at this in regards to
the Budget. Heather clarified that if a commissioner goes to Heather with a sewer question for legal, it will be charged to
sewer. Joan questioned if the Sewer Commission couldn't use a different counsel? Heather feels that the new town
counsel has represented the town well and would be better to not seek outside counsel. Troy said that he does agree
with Heather. Carl also agreed that the town counsel is good and they just need to figure out the payments. Karen feels
that the Sewer Commission should budget for paying counsel directly from the Enterprise Fund. Troy asked ifthere is a
flatrate or if all departments are billed the same rate? Heather said thatthere is a flat retainer rate forthe town and
each month the Sewer Commission would be billed based on a percentage of counsel hours relatedto sewer. The
actual hourly cost could fluctuate each month. Carl felt that the Sewer Commission needs to iron out costs before figuring
how muchto budget forlegal. Joan added that they need to decide as a Commission howto use those hours. Heather
reiterated that office hours are paid by the town but research is charged to sewer. Karen suggested looking at
last 6 months to see what the figures were and look at the town's budget, vs sewer enterprise budget, figure the
cost of legal, and apply % to sewer for legal cost. The concern was raised about using a percentage of the total
if the Commission was the only user for a month. Joan stated that commissioners need to be careful about
what is asked for outside of the office hours. Carl added that it is important to pay our fair share and protect
interest of users. OPEB Funding-(Other Post-Employment Benefits)- Karen reported that the Sewer
Commission's total liability is $129,481 accrued for Sewer Enterprise for Barb's retirement, with $ 6,559 annual
service cost and Net OPEB expenses of $10,072. The numbers are updated every 2 years. If sewer funds
some of the $129K, the yearly amount will change. Troy asked how the $129K figure was determined and
Karen was not sure but said it was related to the number of years Barb has worked. Karen added that the town
is being encouraged to put some money towards funding the OPEB. Sewer should have their own trust fund
sub-account if they decide to fund some of that OPEB, since any interest would stay in the fund. Also bond
companies like to see towns trying to help fund these accounts. Carl reported that he went to a workshop on
OPEB and many towns are looking at other ways to set up different benefits plans going forward. Joan questioned if some
of Barb's retirement funding would be from her work priorto working in sewer commission and if sewer would be also
responsible for some of Jack Rodriquenz's fund? Karen said she would need to look into that. Carl felt that sewer should
put funds away at the same percentage as the town and John agreed. Karen suggested funding the $6,559 annual
amountto helpwhen Barbretires and said the OPEB trust fund has better interestthan the Enterprise fund, butitis up
to the Sewer Commission how they want to fund it. More discussion followed on the costs of retirement health and
Medicare pians
CURRENT BUSINESS
FY19 Budget - Cari asked about how office space is calculated. Karen replied that office space, including utilities, is based on
calculation for other committees, such as PAC and DG Ink, at $6,000/yr. Carl wants to make sure thatthey are charged based on
costand not based on what another committees are charged. Joan thinks it is fine to go with the $6K since it would take a lot of time
to research and the budget is due now. Carl felt that users deserve to know how they are being charged. Joan replied that she feels
they should focus on the larger picture and not get weighed down on such a little item. Joan made a motion to accept the $6,000 for
office space and seconded by Troy but no vote was taken. Carl felt that they should not vote on each line item. There was a
consensus to leave the $6,000 for this year and Joe will put iton the agenda for looking into researching cost for office space.
Carl asked about the insured value of the pump stations and was concerned that the insured value of pump station is the
replacement cost. Carl questioned the figures for value of all town property, which seems low, compared to the value of the pump
stations. Joan suggested adding a line item to have Weston & Sampson follow-up on their 2012 valuation document to update
information as to the replacement value and longevity of each generatorand pumpstation. Carlagreed an update should be done
to see if the insurance is adequate and John added that they can decide later who will do the update. Carl asked for clarification on
the numbers for stabilization fund revenues. Barb replied that the Stabilization Fund revenue figures were based on how it was done
last year. The Reserve Capacity revenue numbers are based on the current fund balance and unused monies transferred last year
to be used for Fitchburg costs this year. A separate line (9a from the budget handout) for Reserve Capacity is based on what they
expect to collect with new connections. Heather said that she would like to present the budget to FinCom by the 15th and agreed with
Barb's suggestion to present an estimated budget. Barb and Heather will decide the key items, the Sewer Commission will discuss
them at the 2/13 meeting and then give Heather their best numbers for her meeting. Joan asked Barb if there would be money to
have engineering do a capital plan funding study. Barb noted that there was $10,000 underengineering consulting. Joan
questioned whetherthat$10,000 wili be enough to do engineering on new service area (Tilton Ave.), capital plan funding study, 1/l
===PAGE 3===
blellwile destillatey dutt thowowt getorte. vuilhauueu halticyicculucoue whale motogyaiy
wantto use first. Barb added in the line item so that the Sewer Commission would discuss and plan for meter updates. She
would like to invite meter companies to come in and present info. Joan feels they need to have money to study this. John reported
that he has a 3-year-od meter that does not work. Barb said it would be $38K for software and $22K for cellular plus the meter cost.
She added it to FY18 get the discussion started. Joan felt that if they have a more user-friendly program, the number of meters could
double. Carlthinks that they should see how they can pass on the cost, since right now itis costing $1,200/year for SWSSto
monitorthe meters. Ifthey went to a new system, they should look at fees to offset the costs. Troy added that meters are fora
specific use. The commission agreed to allot $5000 for now. Joan asked about the line item for 2% for maintenance of pump
stations. Discussion followed on DPW support for sewer and that they do a lot thatis notbilled to sewer. Joan noted thatthe 2% for
technician supportis low, butnotnecessarily change itthis year. Carl pointed outthat DPWlaborshows up in 2 places. Barb
explained thatone line is forlaborovertime for hoveling, raking, etc. ofthepump stations and the 2nd is for indirect costfor
technician on call. Joan asked about outsourcing billing and asked ifthey have sufficientdata? Barb replied that the $10K is a
starting point. Carl thought they should decide their path since they have the money in this year's budget to go forward. Discussion
followed on using this year's money to the upfront development and then allot $5K for recurring cost for FY19. Barb would like to have
FY 18 spending on the nextagenda. Legal-will be left at$5000 with a discussion on use of legal services. Purchase of services -
Commission reviewed the lines, Barb explaining that they are broken into subcategories for budget purposes only - but difficult to
track for YTD numbers since they are all the same account in the system. There was discussion on regular jetting of the system. Carl
felt that they needed to get more visibility as to the jetting so they have a history for next year. Jetting falls under infrastructure. I/l-Carl
suggested spending more on inflow/Infiltration(I/l) this year and less next year. Joan added that they should make sure it is thoughtful
process, all should have input, but not do things because money needs to be spent. Carl suggested geting $2OK done this year as a
start but the Sewer Commission will discuss this again. Fitchburg Usage - Carl said that the rate will be increasing in Fitchburg 30%
and Leominster 3%, but he feels that they can still balance the budget without a user rate increase. Barb is anticipating that they will
be spending about $186K for Fitchburg usage in FY18, more than was budgeted but that revenue is better than estimated as well
and should cover it. OPEB-Carisuggested just funding roughly 10% of the service cost for two years like the Town did, so all
agreed to S656. Commission discussed amounts for transferto Capital Reserve Fund and Joan added that they should come up
with an amount to fund each year for replacement of pumps.
380 Electric Ave. Car Wash -Restitution agreementand Privilege fee-Joanreminded all thatat the lastmeeting they voted
to move forward. Barb received the restitution agreement as a draft and asked if anyone had edits. No one had edits. Barb added
that Adam wants all parties present to sign it, so they can send the draftto Dan and fitis ok with him, have him come in to the next
meeting so it can be signed with all present. Joan said she will be away then but if necessary Joan she can sign before she leaves
on vacation. All were ok with that but felt they would have a quorum so she would not need to do that.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Troy
D.
To send the restitution agreement draft to Dan Proctor for the 380 Electric Ave. property
Vote:
Unanimous
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Troy
To assess privilege fee of $103,963,23 for the 380 Electric Ave. property.
Unanimous
Vote:
Minutes -
Motion: John R.
P.
To accept minutes of 9/12/17 as amended.
Unanimous
Motion: Troy D.
R.
To accept minutes of 10/31/17 as amended.
Unanimous
Motion: John R.
To accept minutes of 11/14/17 as amended.
Unanimous
Second: Joan
Vote:
Second: John
Vote:
Second: Troy D.
Vote:
===PAGE 4===
Allagreed. Fitchburg - CSS 4d Project Costs -John Fitch Highway, Rate study - Carl said that the costcame in 50% more
than they expected, but they are ready to meet with the Sewer Commission and he is confident that they can bring that cost down.
The next step is to sit down with them and ask how they arrive at figures. He will set up a couple of times and see if who is available to
go. Whalom Kitchen (previously 324 Ugly Omelet)- Barb said that they want to open on 2/7. It is the same ownership but a
management change. Discussion followed on the non-compliance fee assessed to the previous owner and the annual permitand
the concern thatpeoplemightchange corporation names to avoid fines starting a precedent. The Sewer Commission agreed to
ask counsel for guidance. Annual report request - Barb will have it for next meeting. Troy is up for re-election this year for 3-year
term and Caucus is March 12th. Troy will need someone to nominate him at Caucus. Members Agenda Inputs for Future
Meetings- Joan would like to have a discussion on the Commission's use oflegal, a discussion on Communications and have a
workshop for these discussions.
Motion: Carl L.
To Adjourn: 10:22 pm.
Second: TroyD.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted
Jueh party
ewer Commission Board Clerk
RECEIVED & FILED
Documents:
1) Public Comment - Carl Luck
2) FY19 Draft budget -revision 1/30/18
MAR 21 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
