===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 3/27/18 - Carl asked for an addition to the minutes that he had asked town counsel if he had violated OML by
sending the subject emails to Barb and counsel advised that this was not a violation.
Motion: Joan P
To accept the minutes of 3/27/18 as amended.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes of 4/3/18 -
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes of 4/3/18 with attachment of document of wording submitted to the Charter Committee.
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
DPW Systems Update - FY18 Spending -Barb reported Jack has been working with Heather on the scope and it will be
advertised in the Central Register and COMMBUYS. Regarding spare parts, Al (Small Water Systems Services) is working with
Flygt Pump to order parts. Forecasted spending for Fitchburg usage is higher than budgeted but since our revenue is also
higher than forecasted, the Town Accountant advised that it was okay to just submit those invoices for payment. Carl wants this
clarified with Karen. Inflow/Infiltration work Spring 2018-- Barb stated that the Scope for bid is with Heather and the SWSS
February report was reviewed without issue by the Commission. Irrigation Meter policy change - Commission discussed
next steps for the implementation of the new Annual Irrigation meter charge ($50) for FY19. Barb noted that there needs to be 2
televised public hearings to change policy. There had also been a suggestion to have a subcommittee formed for Irrigation
meter policy and meter upgrades. The Commission will invite 2 Irrigation Meter company representatives for Neptune and
Badger Meters to the May 29th meeting. Town Charter revisions-update from 4/3 Commission meeting, 4/5 Public
Hearing -Joe reported that there was a good turnout for the hearing but the charter review committee decided to wait until the
Fall Town Meeting to present it. Open Meeting Law Complaint responses to Attorney General 3/28/18 - Joe said that Bob
Ebersole will not do an appeal on the 2/27/18 complaint, but he has not heard anything concerning Troy's complaint of 3/13/18.
Grease Trap Regulation Compliance - Schools - Barb received an email from John Londa that they are having the internal
grease traps cleaned on 4/17 and the Interceptor at the new school will be done in July. Barb asked that it be done in April.
John L. will ask for a waiver because he feels that it would not be needed since readings are very low. The Commission
discussed the past reports for the new school. Joan suggested sending a letter that 2 back to back reports need to be done
before they can apply for a waiver.
Motion: Joan P.
Second:
John R.
To have Barb send an email to the school that the Commission needs back to back reports.
Vote: Unanimous
Whalom Kitchen letter - Barb spoke to the owner of the property, Richard Bursch, and he said to send him the letter but to co
the Kim Chen who holds the lease which Barb has done and is awaiting response. Hilltop Market non-compliance -Barb
reported that it is under new ownership and she has not received a log from them. She sent them a letter and the new owner
called, saying he has closed the butcher shop in the store. Barb told him he needs to send a letter regarding this but has not
received one, so she sent a 2nd letter with an invoice for $50 for non-compliance. 1st Tuesday report - As an update to the
report received by the Commission, Kabobelicious' report has been received but Dragonfly is still outstanding. Also, she will
send out the letters for annual permit renewals after the Q4 billing goes out. Privilege Fee Assessment for 380 Electric Ave
increased usage has been assessed and the Commission signed the document to be recorded. FY19 BUDGET - The final
budget has been sent to Heather to be presented at Town Meeting. Commission discussed the other town meeting issue to
expand the sewer service area (SSA) for Tilton Ave. Commission discussed how to obtain a Board of Selectmen
recommendation to add the Tilton area to the SSA.
===PAGE 2===
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - financial policy, planning for I/l projects, engineering. Public Comment - none
Motion: Joan P.
To Adjourn: 7:41 pm.
kespectively submitted
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Jane Ranley
_Sewer Commission Board Clerk
