===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
occurred at the last meeting. Joe responded that the discussion was about policy and not concerning old issues. The
Commission further discussed Carl's concerns in regards to a communications policy.
APPOINTMENTS- none
CURRENT BUSINESS
Policy Update Discussions- Irrigation Meter policy change- Carl handed out a draft for the Irrigation System Policy. The
Commission reviewed it and made edits in the wording. Manual Meters- Commission discussed the manual meters at the
Carnivale trailer park. Carl added that there have been problems with reading the water meters and should be the concern of
the park owner, instead of the town. Commission will consult with town counsel on how to proceed and talk to the park owner.
Grease Trap Regulation change-Joan handed out a draft rewrite of the Grease Trap Regulation and Commission discussed
edits. Barb added that there is a proposal to increase permit by 5% to cover cost of E-permitting application. Commission
discussed and was not in favor of the increase. Commission will wait to see if it will be adopted by the town. Connection
Charge Policy change- Commission discussed edits, including the edits from Town Counsel, regarding a 4:1 Inflow/Infiltration
clause addition. New Communications policy update- Commission discussed the proposed draft for the Communications
policy and whether they needed a written policy. All agreed to route questions through Joe, as chair, and to be mindful of Barb's
time. Commission discussed being able to function as a team and discussed if there was a need for a Board of Selectmen
Liaison.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Joe A.
To notify the Board of Selectmen that the Sewer Commission does not require a liaison, as amended.
Vote: Joe, Carl, & Ryan - Aye, Joan - Abstain
Hearings for policy changes -Commission will hold public hearings during the end of September and the end of October
televised meetings. The first meeting in August, Joan will share the references on Badger & Neptune irrigation meters. Mead
Talerman Costa FY18 Legal expense- Commission discussed the legal expenses for the town counsel for FY18 and amount
budgeted. Commission agreed to pay $1,000 that is left from the FY18 legal budget for the extra town counsel costs and to
verify what the Commission will be responsible for going forward. FY18 Encumbrances- Commission reviewed proposed
encumbrances for tasks that still need to be done under FY18 budget and discussed open purchase orders for work, including
the jetting to be done. Carl suggested looking into having Clean Basins camera Elizabeth Street when they are jetting.
Commission signed off on the the FY18 Encumbrances. Grease Trap - Regulation Compliance-Annual Permits-Barb has 4
accounts outstanding. 1st Tuesday report - missing Bad Larry's and Kabobelicious.
Minutes of 6/26/18 - Commission discussed the minutes and made edits.
Motion: Joan P.
To accept the minutes of 6/26/18 as amended.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Privilege fee assessment for 63 Prospect St. - Commission discussed the privilege fee.
Motion: Ryan S.
To assess the privilege fee of $ 11,551.47 for 63 Prospect Street.
Second: Joe A.
Vote: Unanimous
Commission also signed the Commitment for the Privilege fee assessed to 5 Rogers Way, Building #3 for monies received in
FY18 per the project's ZBA agreement. Commission signed the EOY FY18 Commitment for Sewer Billing for $373.75.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - review of recommendations for new irrigation meters, privilege fees for
extensions, scope of services for I/l Independent engineering review, Whalom Kitchen fees.
===PAGE 2===
Jane Ranley
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Handouts:
Irrigation System Policy draft from Carl L.
Grease Trap Regulation draft from Joan P.
