===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
appeared to say that he intended to use Barb as a conduit, which was not his intention and Adam will make an adjustment to the
paragraph. Joan mentioned that the Commission had agreed to all attend the OML training, but some have not done so yet. Adam was
concerned that there have been 3 OML violations in last couple months and he suggested working on having a communications policy
in place. He offered to give an OML training during a future Sewer Commission meeting. The Commission discussed the draft of the
response to the complaint and all agreed to add that Adam give OML training to the group.
Motion: John R.
Second: Ryan S.
To approve the draft response letter as written.
Vote: Aye-- John, Ryan, Carl Abstain-Joan
Carl gave a statement regarding personal attacks in the OML complaints, but he would like to put that behind him and be able to get
back to doing the business of the Commission.
Scott Fitzgerald, Stiles Co-discussion of Irrigation Meter new technologies- Badger meters- Carl introduced Scott and stated
that Commission is looking into new alternatives for the irrigation meters. Scott handed out a packet of meter information and
displayed samples of meters his company sells. He explained that the newest technology is ultrasonic, warrantied for 20 years and the
transmitter can do transfers to the cloud which eliminates the handheld readers and laptop expenditures. The transmitters report data
over a 24-hour period. Users would be able to get data on their usage, as well as alerts for large usage episodes. Scott explained the
pricing for both cellular and mobile drive-by packages. He also gave several options for purchasing and selling meters.
(Joe arrived and assumed chairing the meeting.)
Tom Garrity, Ti Sales - discussion of Irrigation Meter new technologies, Neptune meters - Tom handed out literature and gave a
presentation on the Neptune R900 migratable system. He noted that the company is in Sudbury and can do next day delivery for
meters and parts. The Lunenburg Water district currently uses Neptune meters. Tom explained the details and warrantees of the
meters. He would recommend the Pro-coder register since it can be differentiated from the water department meter. Irrigation meters
in use now would not need to be replaced or it would be possible to retrofit the bodies to a new register head. The System is designed
for drivers to go out to read meters and readings can be loaded into Munis. The Commission discussed the price quote provided by
Tom.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Barb and Joe thanked Troy Daniels for his service to the Commission.
ELECTION of OFFICERS
Motion: John R.
Second: Carl L.
To nominate Joe A. as Chair.
Vote: Unanimous
Motion: John R.
Second: Ryan S.
To nominate Joan P. as Vice-Chair
Motion: Joe A.
Second: Carl L.
To nominate Carl L. as Vice-Chair
Discussion: Joan said that it would be helpful if positions are rotated. Joe would like Carl to remain as Vice-Chair to support him in
chairing meetings. Vote: 3 votes for Carl L., 2 votes for Joan P.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Joe A.
To nominate John R. as Clerk
Vote: Unanimous
Dan Proctor, 380-400 Electric Ave lot subdivision- Dan was required to combine the lots in order to tie the new car wash into the
sewer. He would now like to create 3 lots but without an easement, he would need to add manholes. Instead he would like to get an
easement for the sewer line to service the office building, which he will be moving. The Commission discussed the sewer easement
bylaw. Carl suggests that the Commission do some research and talk to town counsel. Dan will put together a couple options and come
back again.
CURRENT BUSINESS
DPW Systems update - Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) work Spring 2018 - Jack noted that he'd solicited 3 bids for the I/l remediation work
and received the low bid of $13,700 from 2 companies - Inland Water Supply and Water Main Cleaning Inc. He would like to award the
work but with the caveat of whether to repair during low water or high-water table. He will speak to the consultant about this. Carl had
a question about whether the documentation will be videos or photos. Commission discussed the scope of work and agreed that they
will need clarification on the inspections.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: Joan P.
Second: John R.
To insert in the present list, task 2A- to evaluate the effectiveness of I/l remediation work already done in areas 3 & 6, as
amended by Joe.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb will email Pat (Weston/Sampson) information so he will have answers to bring to the 6/12/18 meeting. Commission will work on a
schedule and costs at the 6/12 meeting. Communications plan workshop discussion - schedule, attendees - will be on 6/26/18
@6:30. Heather (Town Manager) will attend and Adam will be asked to do an OML training.- Annual Grease Trap Regulation
Compliance permit compliance list review -Commission reviewed the list of those who were not compliant during the year. Barb will
send out the renewal letters this week. Whalom Kitchen non-compliance appeal status - Barb talked to Counsel and he still feels
that it falls back to the owner, but understands it is a sub-let situation. He also advised that the permit should be pulled if not resolved
by July 1st.
Minutes of 5/8/18 -
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Ryan S.
To accept the minutes of 5/8/18
Vote: Unanimous
Q4-FY18 Commitment for Sewer Billing $207,182.23 - Commission signed. Business Manager Report- Invoices - none. Barb
reported that the Sewer Service Map is being updated from Town meeting to reflect adding Tilton Ave. Carl asked about getting a
quote from Munis now rather than waiting until August. Barb will check to see if someone on the Commission would be able to obtain
the Munis quote. Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - DEP, Irrigation Meters Selection, Meter Policy, Grease Law
notification policy
Public Comment - none
Motion: John R.
To Adjourn: 9:35 pm.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted,
Jane Ranley
he lanly
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
Handouts:
Response to the OML complaint prepared by Adam Costa
Weston Sampson draft of DEP response
Stiles Co. - Irrigation meter information
Ti Sales - Irrigation meter information
