===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
engineering firm to do I/l investigative work. The crew comes out about 4-5 times a year to do basic maintenance, confirmation of level
and velocity and flow rate. They will correct issues, documenting on arrival and after correction. All data and analysis are available.
Paul talked about issues with the Graham Street meter, level sensor and pressure velocity sensor. Lunenburg owns the meters but it is
possible to rent them from Flow Assessment. Commission discussed costs for buying meters vs renting meters and Carl suggested
that the Commission discuss whether town should look at renting meters. Commission discussed meters at Summer Street and 2A
site and Paul offered to put together a list of all equipment for the Commission. Commission can access Flow Assessment website to
view all data from the sites. Barb already goes in each month to get the readings for Fitchburg. Commission looked over and discussed
data printouts and site pictures provided by Paul. Based on their tests, Paul said that the meters are running as intended. He pointed
out that the Graham Street meter has big spikes that may correlate with rain events. Carl added that it appears the town is sending
twice as much flow out as the water going into houses, despite the l/l work done. The area had been smoke tested in the past and
house to house checks were done. Carl added that they are most concerned about the Whalom Area. Paul gave several suggestions
for checking for issues.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Joe said he was disappointed that Commission has not had any response from the Selectmen regarding the
liaison. Carl added that they had acknowledged it. Joe also spoke of his disappointment with the Schools' stance and Town's position
regarding the fees for the athletic fields charged to the town teams, including the Bengals program.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Lunenburg Schools grease trap design discussion - John Londa took a picture of the pipe in the external tank and believed that it
was level. The tanks come pre-cast with the pipe attached. Carl had questioned if it was level because the pumper had pointed it out.
John R. suggested that at the next pumping, he should have the pumper demonstrate whether it is level or not. John L. asked what
standard the Commission is looking for. Carl added that the concern it is that if grease is floating on top, it may go through the top of
the T. However, the school does not generate a lot of grease and this may not be an issue. ZBA Hearing of 8/22/18 - 380-400
Electric Ave -Carl reported that the ZBA approved the division, based on approval from all boards/committees involved. There are no
easements required. Evaluation of past Inflow/Infiltration (/I) work - Carl talked to Heather and it is okay to go ahead since it is for
engineering. Carl had contacted 4 companies.-- Stantec, Woodward & Curran, Suez, and Tighe & Bond. All but Suez were interested.
Carl can send them information and data to look at and any companies interested could come in to discuss the project with the
Commission. Irrigation Meter/Manual Meters - Commission will wait to vote on the meter selection when Joan is present. Carl
suggested talking with Lunenburg Water District to see what they plan on doing in the tuture and also Commission should look at what
the total cost will be to the users. John k. has an irrigation meter and would like to know what the cost will be. He added that his
plumber had to get him a meter without lead to meet new regulations. In regards to the Manual meter policy, Carl talked to the Town
Counsel, who is drafting a letter to send to the trailer park owner concerning the meter reading responsibility. Fitchburg - John Fitch
Highway Cost Sharing review - Carl reported that Fitchburg got back to number that the Commission was expecting. Commission
will wait to discuss further at the next meeting when everyone has had a chance to review.
FY19 Legal fees billing basis - Commission received 2 invoices -- 6 1/2 hours for $924, and .3 hours for $114. Commission
discussed the basis for the billing and the flat fee of $199/hour. Joe will talk with Heather about the legal billing. Billing Outsourcing
costs - Barb reported that the Munis quote is out. Carl suggested that Barb go to Steve Malandrinos(IT) to confirm what we need from
Munis.
Minutes of 7/31/18
Motion: John R.
To accept the Minutes of 7/31/18.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes of 8/14/18
Discussion: Carl had a question about the statement regarding the night transfer of data versus real time. Commission
discussed but made no changes.
Motion: Ryan S.
To accept the Minutes of 8/14/18.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
===PAGE 2===
Commission will discuss this at the first meeting in September as it is due to the Committee by the end of September.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To Adjourn: 8:48 pm.
Vote: Unanimous
Save
get Penly
Sewer Commission Board Clerk
