===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1/l 3rd Party RFP Bid Review and Vote-Barb received a reply from Heather (Town Manager) that since this was not
a normal bid, there in nothing prohibiting the town from negotiating the price and scope. The Commission agreed that
the price was higher than expected and discussed having Woodward and Curran(W&C) revise the bid at a more
cost-effective price. Commission agreed to recontact Woodward & Curran, explaining that the bid was more money
than expected and ask if they have a suggestion for obtaining what they want for a slightly lower cost. Barb reported
that the balance for I/l in FY20 is $10,000. The Commission agreed that this would be the first step to find where or
what the problem is and that the solution could be expensive but the work could be done over the next several years.
O&M Contract RFP Bid Review and Vote Barb received the clarifications from Small Water (SWSS) for their bid.
Commission questioned and discussed SWSS's calculations for reading the irrigation meters. Barb will ask SWSS to
clarify and give a price per meter per quarter.
Irrigation Meter Program Changes-Policy and Implementation - Barb reported that the Water Dept may be able
to supply the parts. The Commission discussed that the Users would contact Neptune with questions. Joan
suggested getting a sample meter for demo purposes if possible and the Commission agreed. The Commission
discussed a date for implementing the new policy, having Barb mail the new policy flyer with the August bills and
sending out a special mailing to the 60 irrigation meter users. Commission agreed that the effective date will be
August 1st and the $50 Irrigation meter fee would be deducted from the 2nd quarter. Also, new users will need to have
a signed off plumbing permit in order to participate in irrigation meter credit program.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Joan P.
To approve the Irrigation Policy as modified.
Vote: Unanimous
Leominster Pump Station - Barb reported that she received a Sanitary Sewer Overflow (SSO) notification that the
Leominster Road station overflowed about 100 gallons on 5/28 due to lost power to HMI and a bad connection to
high level float. Small Water notified Jack (DPW) and also the DEP as required. The Commission discussed the
corrective and planned actions in the SWSS report. The Commission agreed to ask SWSS how to prevent this
problem in the future and to ask Wright Pierce to include in the Maintenance Plan methods to prevent this problem.
Grease Trap/Interceptor program - FOG Spring Audit - Commission discussed the FOG Audit inspection
checklist. Barb added that Adam (Town Counsel) said it is ok for Commissioners to do the audit as long as the
Commission votes on those doing the audit. The Commission agreed to do the audits after the annual renewal letters
go out. After discussion, the Commission agreed to audit the 5 or 6 food service establishments with external traps
first and then evaluate the process.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: Carl L.
To have Ryan, John and Carl be the inspectors for the 6 establishments with interceptors that are not
required to send in logs.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb will send out a letter in July. Barb notified Kabobelicious via email that their permit was withdrawn, and co'd the
Board of Health, but has not had a response. 1st Tuesday reports are all in as of today. Commissioners signed the
Q4 FY 19 Commitment of $218,077.18. Barb also noted that the Commitment amount includes final reading bills
that have been sent out. There have been alot of home sales lately and these billings require a good deal of her
time.
Minutes for 4/30/19 -
===PAGE 2===
advised that Jack will be talking to Roger and the Mayor to discuss. Barb added that the May pump station report is
on the Google Drive. YTD FY19 Budget- The Commission reviewed Barb's FY19 budget update. She was working
with Jack and SWSS regarding an invoice and noted that the spare pumps have been received. The Commission
agreed to have Barb talk to Karen (Accounting) about the I/l contract and encumber the $40,000 quoted by
Woodward & Curran that we have available in FY19 currently. The cost after discussion with W&C may be less than
that. Solar credit program- Barb checked with Nexamp and Heather. Both programs start January through March
and Nexamp said there is no rush and that they have plenty of room to accommodate the schools and Sewer. Barb
reiterated that per Town Counsel, the Commission cannot sign up on their own.
Highfield agreement status- Barb reported that the agreement was not ready yet. Brian (Mead, Talerman & Costa)
needs to talk to their counsel. Invoices- none. Barb added that Lunenburg Schools will be doing grease trap
cleaning the week of July 8". Joan, Joe and John need to complete conflict of interest training. Carl asked if Barb
received the Excel sheets for the pump stations. Barb replied she contacted SWSS and they are still working on
them.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Jack's feedback on Leominster, Woodward & Curran update, legal
update on Elizabeth Street, spare parts discussion with SWSS(July?)
Public Comment - Paula Bertram - 312 West Townsend Rd - Paula said Lanni's Farm met with the Planning
Board and is interested in pursuing a sewer extension to the farm. She supports helping farms in town but
extensions need to be done carefully since it is catalyst for development. She is okay with business growth but
concerned with the potential residential growth and its impact on the schools and infrastructure. She encouraged
thoughtful review of the town's economic growth plan and suggested a meeting of Sewer Commission and Planning
Board to discuss future expansion in town.
Motion: Joan P.
To adjourn: 8:09pm.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
SWSS bid clarifications
YTD FY19 Budget Update
