===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
APPOINTMENT - Dan Proctor, 16 Upland Ave extension - cancelled because the request was withdrawn.
PUBLIC COMMENT-Pertaining to the Upland extension request, Carl commented that properties within the sewer
service area have the right to connect and do not have to show whether or not the property can perk or that they
have to show a need
CURRENT BUSINESS -
I/l 3rd Party Review - RFP responses - Barb reported that she received 1 RFP response and the Commission
needs to complete an evaluation before the bid is complete. The Commission discussed options and agreed to do
the evaluation during a meeting. The evaluation will be put on the 5/14 meeting agenda.
RFP for O&M Contract-- The Commission also will need to complete an evaluation for this REP. Bids are due in
tomorrow, 5/1, and the Commission will do the evaluation at the 5/14 meeting as well. Barb will invite Jack (DW
Director) to come participate in these evaluations.
Solar Credit program-Barb had advised Eric at Nexamp that the Commission wished to sign up and they had
replied that they have another proposal to present to the town. They have asked to meet with Barb, Heather, John
Londa and Nexamp rep, Charlie Nutter. The Commission discussed concerns over having to wait, whether Nexamp
is aware that they are an enterprise fund and operate individually from the Town and asked Barb to discuss this with
Nexamp. Carl does not feel that the Commission should wait on the Town to sign up.
Grease Trap FOG audit - Barb reported that the letters have been sent out and the next step is to coordinate the
audit. Barb asked if a Commissioner could put together a scope based on regulations. Commission discussed what
would be needed for the scope. John will compile the scope and the Commission will discuss it at the 5/28 meeting.
APPOINTMENT--
Jerry Lanni, Sewer Service Area expansion to Chase Road - Jerry inquired about the possibility of bringing sewer
down Chase Road by Lanni's Farm. He gave a summary of the farm business and added that the land has been put
into APR, so it cannot be developed. Jerry added that lack of town sewer and water is restricting the expansion of the
farm business. He has spoken to other businesses and residents that would be interested in hooking up to sewer &
water. Jerry quoted data on tourism income and said their farm would like to expand on ideas to take advantage of
farm tourism. The Commission explained the process for seeking a sewer extension, adding that Town Meeting
would need to vote to expand the sewer service area. They suggested going first to the Planning Board, the Land
Use Director and the Water District regarding water service. The Commission offered their support and Jerry thanked
them for their help.
Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles - FY20 Budget-. Carl will read the motions for Articles 12 & 13. The
Commission also discussed the Charter articles and Carl added that they can amend a section if it is being
discussed.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Joe A.
To propose an amendment at Town Meeting to add Sewer as excluded in Section 4-2(i) in the Town Charter.
Vote: Unanimous
Carl will propose the amendment at the Town Meeting.
Proposed Agenda statement - Commission discussed the proposed agenda statement concerning items which
may or may not be discussed during a meeting and agreed to not add the statement.
Minutes- 3/12 - Carl asked to add that one goal was to have a documentation procedure for maintenance.
===PAGE 2===
To accept the minutes of 4/9/19.
Vote: Unanimous
Business Manager Report - Barb will be focusing on Q4 billing and meter import in May. The Maintenance
Plan Kickoff will be May 23rd at 10am. Barb added that Wright Pierce requested documents and Jack suggested
having them go direct to SWSS. Commission agreed. The Commission signed a Fitchburg Invoice for
$10,187.00. Barb passed out copies of the FY19 budget update and went over the figures.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings --Irrigation meter policy and Implementation of the new meters,
RFP's for Evaluation O&M contract and I/l 3rd party review, FOG Audit Scope.
Public Comment- none
Motion: Carl L.
To adjourn: 7:45pm
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted.
дне
ane L. Ranley
Paule
/
/Minutes Clerk
Handout: YTD FY19 Budget
