===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
out a talent bank application. The annual grease trap permit applications have been sent out and are due by 8/15. The new
Irrigation Meter policy takes effect by August 1st, 2019 and users will need to be compliant by June 2020 to remain on the
program.
APPOINTMENTS -
Bill Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering on 189 Cross Rd. Sewer Extension Request - Bill stated that the homeowners
have had perc testing done on the property and could only put in a tight tank. Recent sewer extensions were added to Pine
Grove and Lakeview Ave., stopping on either side of the property. The homeowners want to get the current house off the
tight tank, to make it saleable. If they can hook up to sewer, they would divide the 13.5-acre parcel by selling the current
house, building a new house and selling a building lot. The Commission reviewed engineering maps, showing previous perc
testing. Bill has talked to Jack (DPW) and the owners have talked to the Board of Health. They have no objection to limiting
the lots to 3-4-bedroom homes. Carl noted that they first need to prove that there is no place on the property that can
support a septic system. The Sewer Commission usually brings sewer extension requests to a Town Meeting, but
homeowners may also do it. Bruce Millette (homeowner) said all flat areas have been tested but one section of property
consists of steep, unreachable hills. Bruce added that Jim Gareffi (Board of Health) was present when every possible area
was tested, and the conclusion was to put in a tight tank. John suggested talking to Jim (BOH) regarding the property and
Carl suggested that the Commission check with Wright Pierce who did the CWMP and determined that the area was not an
'area of need', to see if they agree there is no area for septic. Carl added that sewer encourages development and they are
concerned about subdivision of land. Bill added that zoning should limit development-not sewer and the DEP only allows
tight tanks if there are no other options. Carl replied that the Commission is looking for enough documentation that the only
options are a tight tank or sewer.
Woodward & Curran - Scott Medeiros, and Lauren Hertel I/l 3rd party review- John said that the Commission would like
options to get the best value from the project cost. Scott replied that they estimated the time for data collection which would
depend on the quality of the GIS data available and there could be supplemental field work that may or may not need to be
done. Lauren added they estimated time for developing the algorithm and training. Carl replied that the algorithm is
important to determining what needs to be worked on. The Commission has done a lot of work since 2011, but they are not
sure if it corrected the I/l problems. He added that it is important to get a summary in laymen terms and to assess where the
I/l is now, based on the data. Scott replied that at the first meeting, they can look at data and shuffles the tasks as needed.
The Commission discussed which areas are a priority, agreeing on the areas that go to Leominster such as Dana Street and
some Whalom area homes. Carl suggested working with SWSS for pump station data and Scott suggested looking for any
calibration issues.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To issue a contract for the l/l 3rd party review proposal from Woodward and Curran.
Vote: Unanimous
The next step will be to schedule a kick-off meeting and a contract will be initiated. Barb will forward the standard contract
that was included in the RFP to Scott as the basis.
Cathy Clark-96 Oak Ave betterment abatement- Cathy Clark, realtor (275 Cross Rd.), stated that the homeowners at 96
Oak Ave bought the house in 1998 as a 2-family and converted it to 1-family in 2010. The owners were not aware of that
they have been paying the betterment through taxes as a 2-family home. Barb added that the betterments were assessed in
2008 and Town Counsel has said that state law dictates that the abatement needs to be requested within 6 months of
assessment. The Commission discussed the assessment process and that the property was assessed properly as a 2 family
in 2008. Carl suggested that if the owners can provide information to prove their point, the Commission will discuss it with
Town Counsel. Mike (homeowner) will put a statement together.
===PAGE 2===
of water into the system and restated that sump pumps are illegal. Matt Allison, Flat Hill asked how they determine flow
quantity to Fitchburg & Leominster. The Commissioners replied that each city has flow meters at the town. Matt also
brought up a point of order that the Commission started their 7:30 appointment 7 minutes early. Point was noted. Carl
reiterated that there are 2 openings on the Sewer Commission. He added that the Commission is an important small
business which can really make a difference for the users. He especially encouraged residents that are on the sewer system
to come forward. Carl also thanked John for all his work on the Commission and all agreed he will be missed. John
encouraged residents to step up and join the Commission.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Commission vacancies - John's resignation effective 8/14.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To submit the Vacancy posting to the Board of Selectmen
Vote: Unanimous
Pump Station Maintenance & SWSS Contract discussions - Commissioners agreed the numbers are still not clear and
would like to have a discussion with Heather (Town Manager) & Jack (DPW) before the next meeting. Cari pointed out that
the monthly reports show the reliability of the system is getting worse, with lots of call outs and alarms almost every day. He
also questioned why they are invoicing for every alarm and why they are not covered by the contract. Commission
discussed and asked Barb to set up a meeting with Heather & Jack next week if possible.
Leominster Billing methodology & Debt service payment - John asked the Commission to select a liaison to Leominster
I A and wilbe sending an invoce for 515/2000. Barb sent email to Roger (Leominster) for clarifications: Commission
discussed, and Carl volunteered to be the Liaison.
Motion: Ryan S.
Second: John R.
To have Carl be the liaison to Leominster for IMA discussions.
Vote: Unanimous
New Irrigation Meter Program Implementation - Barb reported that Ti-Sales will be the contact for the meters and be
sending her information. She will do a separate mailing to Irrigation Meter users first and then put an insert in the next billing.
Grease Trap/Interceptor program - Barb sent out the Annual Permit renewals and they are due 8/15. Commission will
schedule the FOG Audits for after August 26'h. 1st Tuesday report status - all have been received.
Minutes of 7/9/19 - will be tabled to the next meeting.
Business Manager Report - Barb reported that Wright Pierce is scheduling the pump station tours with SWSS. She
received the schematic for the 400 Electric Ave. convenience/donut shop. Highfields - Brian (Mead, Talerman) will be
working with Fitchburg to clarify the debt service schedule. Invoices- Fitchburg monthly - $11,809.33
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- Elizabeth Street
Public Comment- none
Motion: Ryan S.
To adjourn: 8:15pm
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted,
Jane
Jane L. Ranley
pandey,
Minytes Clerk
