===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
coffee sales and will not involve cooking or grease at this point. They will just sell grab & go food only, which will be
purchased elsewhere. The Commission discussed applying for a waiver, as use may be far less than 25%. (Heather
and Jack joined the meeting.) There was a discussion of reserve capacity, which is something the Commission may
need to discuss with Town Counsel.
Motion: Carl L.
To approve the change of use for 39 Mass. Ave.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
CURRENT BUSINESS -
146 Lancaster Avenue Sewer Assessment- Barb noted that this property has connected to sewer via a sewer
extension. Commission to vote to assess $ 6,998.74, as a sewer extension is assessed at 50% of the most recent
betterment.
Motion: Ryan S.
To assess 146 Lancaster Avenue for $ 6,998.74.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
O&M Contract & Invoice issues - John said that his goal is to sign the FY20 Contract and to review invoices. The
Commission needs to define what is a major overhaul vs emergency. Ryan questioned if they are being billed over
and over for the same error. Carl added that the invoices are billing for all labor and SWSS was supposed to only bill
when labor was extensive. He added that the monthly reports do not show all the callouts and that the system is
getting less reliable. He questioned if they are getting the same level of service now and the Commission needs to
come to an agreement on what they should be paying for.
Jack (DPW) said that he is very comfortable working with SWSS and that they are reliable. Regarding the spare
parts, he added that Deb (SWSS) does not mark up the parts costs and the town has saved a substantial amount on
parts. The sewer system was brand new at first, so like a new car, there were fewer repair issues. As the system gets
older, with 10 pump stations -the same number as Leominster-there will be more and more callouts for mechanical
issues. Jack explained that he and Barb go over every invoice and every single charge. Any questioned charges are
discussed with SWSS and sometimes charges are changed or eliminated. He added that they do not want the
Commission look at every invoice and hold back payments. He reiterated that SWSS has given 7 years of good
service to Lunenburg.
The Commission discussed the current contract proposed by SWSS which is Rev. 3. The Commission discussed
the changes in SWSS personnel and noted that SWSS does not have written routine maintenance information at
each station. Commission discussed the charges for call outs and if the contract allows for charging for responding to
callouts after hours. Heather added that there needs to be more clarification on what 24/7 means. Commission
discussed need to have regular meetings with SWSS, at least quarterly, to adjust the contract as needed and discuss
with SWSS what can be done to minimize the extra charges. Barb noted that the RFP was the basis for the scope,
and they would need to redo if we make substantial changes. John added that SWSS has a new tracking system,
which may explain why there is more detail in the invoices. John also noted that the contract expired, so they should
move forward on the new one. Commission discussed the Revision 3 figures for the SWSS contract of $102,520.28
with the generators and without the irrigation meter readings.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: Ryan S.
To adjourn: 4:00pm
Respectively submitted,
Tant one,
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
