===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Steve Harper, Sean Patricks - requested a waiver to pump the external tank once a year. They had the interceptor
pumped in June, with a Commissioner present and would like to set up the yearly pumping for November/December,
when they renew their other licenses. John added that the tank had no grease in the interceptor and he agreed with
the yearly pumping.
Motion: Ryan S.
Second: Carl L.
To grant Sean Patricks a waiver to pump their interceptor once a year.
Discussion: Carl suggested having a waiver to pump once a year contingent on sending a copy of the internal logs
twice a year.
Motion was modified:
To grant the waiver for pumping the interceptor once a year and send internal reports in June and December.
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb asked Steve if he had a copy of the schematic and he replied that they do not. He will ask his contact, Carl, to
look at the system, to find the model number and provide a hand-drawing of the connections.
PUBLIC COMMENT-
John said that Joan won't be able to attend meetings in July and August. She offered to resign or if more than 1
candidate has interest, to relinquish her seat. Commission discussed whether someone can serve on 2 elected
boards.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
John announced that Joseph Anderson has resigned and there is now a vacancy on the board.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To send a notice to the Board of Selectman concerning the vacancy on the Sewer Commission.
Vote: Unanimous
Barb will send a memo to have the vacancy posted.
/l 3r Party Review RFP discussion - bid from Woodward and Curran (W & C)- Barb contacted Scott at W&C
and he is happy to come to the meeting to talk about the project. Commission discussed how to approach the
discussion with Woodward & Curran and agreed to have Scott come to the next meeting.
O&M Pump Station FY20 Contract discussion - Commission discussed Small Water Systems' (SWSS) contract
calculations for the 5% rate increase, which includes reading the irrigation meters. Barb will contact Debbie (SWSS)
about not including the meter readings in the calculations for the new contract. Commission discussed the term of the
contract and whether it is renewable as currently written. Barb will clarify with counsel the "term of contract sections.
Pump station reports review- Commission discussed the reports from the pump stations and noted that that there
have been more call outs. Commission discussed an issue on Graham Street and agreed that they need SWSS to
come to meetings to discuss problems with the pump stations. Commission agreed to have a working session with
SWSS to discuss the pump stations. Carl asked about the weekly excel files. Barb replied that they were received
and will be posted to the shared drive and will re-send the Commissioners the link.
Irrigation Meter Program change - Implementation plans -Barb said the Water Department wants users to be
directed to either Ti-Sales or Pipes Plus. She will talk to Ti-Sales first so we can put together a pamphlet and get the
information out in August to Irrigation Meter users. Commission discussed the application process for renewals and
===PAGE 2===
Commission did not budget in FY20 for this change. The next Leominster billing will be August. Carl asked to get
more information from Jack on what was discussed in his meeting with Roger (Leominster.) John added that it would
be better to have a letter come from the Commission before Leominster sends a letter. Commission discussed how
to communicate with Leominster regarding the billing change, since the budget is set. John will to talk to Jack about
his discussion with Leominster and the Commission will discuss issue at a future meeting.
Grease Trap/Interceptor program - Annual Permit renewals - Barb will be sending out the Annual permit renewal
letters after she sends out the billing demands. Kabobelicious is officially closed. Audit of external interceptor
restaurants- After the renewal letters go out, Carl and Ryan will audit a couple establishments in July.
Sewer End-of Year Commitment of $429.60
Motion: Carl L.
To approve the sewer end-of-year commitment of $429.60.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Commission signed the End-of-Year Commitment.
Minutes for 5/23/19-
Motion: Carl L.
To accept minutes for 5/23/19.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes for 6/11/19 -
Motion: Carl L.
To accept minutes for 6/11/19.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Business Manager Report - Barb reported she received the pump station electronic files and has put them on the
Google drive. She will send the reports to Wright-Pierce and discuss setting up the pump station tours for July. Barb
has also updated the website with the Commission vacancy, new officers and updated policies. The Lunenburg
School grease traps have been cleaned. Carl attended, observing that the Interceptor was very clean, and that pipe
is now level. The internal traps were ok. 68 Elm St. subdivision- Barb advised the Commission as an FYI of a
subdivision plan that is going before Planning Board. The owner had inquired about hooking up to sewer, but the lots
would be beyond the sewer service area so they will probably do septic instead. Commission signed Invoices for
Fitchburg for $13,589.84 and Wright Pierce for $1346.47. Annual SRF project notice was sent out and applications
need to be submitted by August 23rd. Carl inquired about the invoice from SWSS for labor. Commission discussed
the invoices in relation to what is covered by the maintenance contract. Barb will send commissioners copies of the
paid invoices to review. Commission discussed whether payment should be held until the Commission reviews all
SWSS invoices.
Motion: Carl L
Not seconded.
To not pay any SWSS invoice involving labor charge without Commission approval until issue is resolved.
Commission discussed the motion and agreed to look at the invoices before discussing the labor charges at the next
meeting. The motion was withdrawn. John will discuss the labor charges with Jack. Carl added that he does not want
to sign the contract until the labor charge issue is resolved.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Ryan confirmed that he can attend the 7/30 and 8/13 meetings.
•
===PAGE 3===
Lane he Care,
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Updated Irrigation Policy
FY19 YTD Budget
