===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
separator) going to the manhole. The manhole will be the booted style rather than a dog-house style.
Commission suggested adding a 6-month Inspection/maintenance plan and discussed the location of the floor
drain. Dan will be going back to the Planning Board on 2/25 and the Commission will wait until next meeting to
approve
Patrick McLaughlin, MHF Design -400 Electric Ave. - Change of Use application and Plan- Patrick
reported that they will be revising the current plans to add a 5th dispenser island which will increase the request
by 75 gallons/day. He noted the grease trap setup and flow to the main on the plans. Barb added comments
from the Peer Review on the connection and noted that Jack had reviewed both the plans and the Peer Review.
Commission discussed what would flow through the Grease Trap and noted that the regulations do not require
internal grease traps if there is an external trap. A detail of the internal plumbing will be required when the
grease trap annual permit is applied for. Patrick will check on the floor drains and they will be requesting a
water flow of 868 gallons/day with new plans to come. Steve Harper - 15 Spring St. - asked about the
estimated customer flow and Patrick said he would need to check. Ryan asked if the flooding issues had been
addressed and Dan Proctor replied that the repair was made to the main trunk line so that water will not drain
out to Electric Ave. Commission reviewed the manholes and will need a final report from Peer Review. Barb
added that after Commission approves the design, it will need to go to Leominster for approval. When he is
ready to seek a building permit, the Commission will need the application to connect with permit fees. Privilege
fees will be assessed upon connection but can be apportioned over 10 years.
Sean Flanagan and Steve Harper, Sean Patricks - Waiver Request and approval - Steve said that his
company did the installation of the interceptor at Sean Patricks. He questioned the measurements from the
pumpouts done by Wind River, so they are having Food Grease Trappers do the inspections/pumpings now.
They are requesting a once a year pumpout, rather than every 3 months. Carl replied that regulations state
every 6 months and questioned the calculations on the Food Grease Trappers report. John asked why there
was a big difference in reports and Sean replied that business had been down. Commission reviewed and
discussed the inspection reports. Commission advised to have the tank pumped in 6 months and if significantly
less grease, they can come back to request pumpouts every 9 or 12 months. Carl also suggested that they
notify the Commission in June when they pump the tank so someone from the Commission and Small Water
can observe. Barb asked for a copy of the design plans from when the interceptor was installed.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street - said he was pleased to see how thoroughly the
Commission worked through the plan reviews and working to help new businesses.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Annual Report submittal- Commission reviewed the draft of the Annual Report and made edits.
Motion: John R.
Second: Ryan S.
To accept the Sewer Commission Annual Report as modified.
Vote: Unanimous
Fy20 Budget discussion and approval - Commission reviewed Barb's edits for the FY20 budget and
discussed figures for user charges, Fitchburg usages, connection revenue from Whalom Luxury Apartments and
the revised indirect costs received from the town treasurer. Commission discussed the 20% increase to Barb's
retirement cost and Barb will ask Treasurer about the increase. Commission discussed the figures for liability
costs and the change in valuation. Carl suggested getting a copy of the insurance document providing the pump
station values. Barb will ask the Accountant for the basis of the valuation. Commission discussed Reserve
Capacity Fund figures and debt service, and asked for information on the Retained Earnings increase each
year. Barb will get the figures and Commission will finalize the budget at the next meeting on 2/26. Carl still
wants to discuss the John Fitch Payment and DPW director time. Commission discussed the options for funding
the OPEB fund. Barb added that FinCom presentation is 3/7 and Carl will work out the presentation with Joe.
===PAGE 2===
•he day to day operation, care and maintenance or the sanitary sewers shall be
under the supervision of the town manager", then delete it.
Vote: Unanimous
Town Caucus and Commission vacancies - Carl and John are up for re-election and will be on the ballot.
Maintenance plan -Barb received proposals from Wright Pierce and SWSS. The Commission was pleased
with the Wright Pierce submittal. SWSS's submittal lacked substance. Weston Sampson did not quote
Second: Ryan S.
To accept the Wright Pierce proposal and invite them to come to a meeting to discuss the details of the
contract.
Vote: Unanimous
Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) Evaluation RFQ discussion and approval- Commission reviewed Heather's responses
to Carl's questions on the IFB (Invitation for Bid). Barb added that since it involves engineering and is likely less
than $10,000, then it can be simpler process, involving just the scope of services. Barb will take the scope and
send a draft to the Town Manager and the Commission before sending it out. RFP for O & M Contract -
Commission discussed Carl's edits to the draft Invitation for Bid, discussing snow removal at pump stations,
maintenance log requirements, generator maintenance logs, and quarterly Meter readings. Barb will send a draft
to Heather to start the procurement process and the Commission will formally vote on 2/26 to send to bid.
Billing Outsourcing-Barb will be talking to town counsel for input on NDS terms & conditions on Monday.
Minutes-1/8/19
Motion: Ryan S.
To accept the meetings of 1/8/19.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes-1/22/19
Motion: John R.
To accept the meetings of 1/22/19 with the noted change.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Minutes-1/29/19
Motion: John R.
Second: Ryan S.
To accept the meetings of 1/29/19 with the changes noted.
Vote: Unanimous
Business Manager Report -Annual Town Meeting deadline is in March. Commission reviewed 2 invoices for
Fitchburg-- $14,179.79 for January and $12,757.59 for February. Grease Trap 1st Tuesday - Barb said
Kabobelicious is non-complaint and she is not sure if they are open.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - discussion on a FOG audit
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 9:26pm.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Handouts:
Revised budget
Draft of Annual Report
Emails - Heather and Carl re. the draft IFB
