===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town Meeting will be 11/12 and the Sewer Commission will have 3 articles.
PUBLIC COMMENT - none
APPOINTMENTS -
Residents of 33 & 34 Elizabeth St. - I/I remediation - Letters were sent on 10/21 to residents at 33 & 34 Elizabeth
St. The resident at 34 Elizabeth responded that they had replaced all their pipes, and anyone can come to
investigate. There was no response from 33 Elizabeth St. The Commission discussed the use of a dye test to find
which house is the source of I/l. Jack said that he did not think dye would be appropriate in this case but would be
willing to talk to the residents. The Commission further discussed the laterals and using a camera, with the dye test.
Barb noted that Pat (Weston & Sampson) had said that a special camera would be needed due to the angle of the
lateral. Joan added that at a previous meeting, the Commission discussed adding this to the Woodward & Curran I/l
investigation. Jack suggested the effort should be with looking at 33 Elizabeth St. and offered to talk to the residents
to explain the situation.
Discussion of Small Water Services (SWSS) and Adherence to Contract - Adam Costa- Joan met with Adam
(Town Counsel) to discuss SWSS's adherence to contract. He advised against withholding payments since it would
be a breach of contract. Adam put together a letter to SWSS that could be sent relating to invoice discussion and
meeting attendance. Barb confirmed that SWSS would be at the 11/19 Meeting. Commission discussed the letter and
changing 'days' notice to 'hours' notice given and also their concerns about SWSS not attending the last meeting
after they'd been given 5 weeks' notice. They agreed, after confirming that it was recommended by counsel, to have
Barb instruct counsel to send the letter and that the intention of the letter is to get SWSS to come in for a discussion.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Ryan S.
To send town counsel's letter to SWSS with the correction of days to hours.
Vote: Unanimous
Scott Medeiros and Lauren Hertel, Woodward & Curran - I/I 3rd party review contract - review & discussion-
Scott summarized that the contract scope will entail going through the large quantity of data for work done in past
years, pull data into a compiled evaluation, re-evaluate the sheds and drainage areas, look at GIS data and make
recommendations for future work to correct i/l. Carl added that Woodward & Curran will be taking the data from the
pump stations and give the Commission a long term Excel tool to look at which areas contribute the most l/l, which
may also indicate how reliable the meters are. Mike pointed out that they have paid a lot of money in the past for
investigations and asked how they will evaluate the pump station data. Lauren replied that they will look at the
catchment areas and at existing GIS data, to determine how accurate the data is. Scott added that they will start by
looking at the whole town and drill down to pinpoint areas where problems are. The project will take 4 months and will
not involve smoke testing. They will look at the billings for inflow and outflow, noting any anomalies for further
investigation. Woodward & Curran will offer training and support in using the Excel tool. The Commission discussed
the budget for the project, its cost effectiveness and what they will gain from the I/l review contract.
Motion: Ryan S.
Second: Carl L.
To sign the I/l 3ra Party contract with Woodward & Curran
Vote: Carl L., Joan P., Ryan S. and Mike N.- Aye. Dave M.- Nay.
The Commission signed the Woodward & Curran contract.
===PAGE 2===
call in.
sewer to the house. The Commission discussed the Town Meeting warrant article and that it is for expanding the
SSA to include the full parcel. Carl has concerns that to expand the SSA to allow increased lot development is in his
opinion contrary to the intent of the Sewer Service Area. Commission noted that their own policy states that they
intend neither control or enable development. Commission will present the article at Town Meeting. Bruce Millette
explained the implications of extending sewer to only their home and discussion followed on when and how the land
divisions could and should occur. Bill added that any land division will go through as an AN and will meet zoning
bylaws. It was noted that the Millettes were clear from the beginning that they wanted to divide the parcel. The
Commissioners' concern is that the Millettes get approved to connect to sewer at Town Meeting. Dave would like Bill
to make the presentation at town meeting.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the plan submitted by Bill Hannigan, with the discussion at town meeting, to discuss the lot
formation of 3 lots presented tonight.
Discussion: Carl said that he cannot support anything beyond what is absolutely necessary.
Vote: Joan P., Dave M., Mike N. and Ryan S.-Aye. Carl- Nay.
Ryan and Joan will present the article at town meeting. Bill will try and attend Town Meeting as he has another
obligation that evening. Discussion followed on the timing of putting stubs in and when privilege fees would be paid.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Special Town Meeting - 11/12 - Articles-Barb summarized the 3 articles to be presented by the Commission.
Article 3-correction to the motion from the Annual Town Meeting that shows the Reserve Capacity transfer of $9,993.
Article 4-Moves Reserve Capacity funds to the Stabilization Fund. Article 8-to add 189 Cross Road to the Sewer
Service Area.
Highfield Village- Final Sewer Allotment and Payment Agreement - Barb reported that the final agreement was
approved, and payments should start in mid-November, which include interest. If the property is sold, they must pay
the total in tull.
Leominster IMA discussion- Barb noted that Adam (Town Counsel) will review this to give input on the next steps
and the IMA does not expire until 2025. She will ask Adam's opinion regarding having further discussions in
Executive Session.
101 Pleasant St- Barb reported that the property was divided off the Twin City Baptist lot and is not part of the
Sewer Service Area. Before the property can be sold, the title will need to be cleared. Ryan added that the property
has huge amount of environmental fines and discussion followed whether they could withhold their signatures
because of those fines. Barb replied that Adam (Town Counsel) is asking the Commission to approve a partial
release of the betterment lien.
Motion: Carl L.
To adopt the partial release for 101 Pleasant St. and authorize the chair or other member to sign on behalf of
the Commission.
Second: Ryan S.
Vote: Unanimous
Joan will sign the release and have it notarized at Town Hall.
===PAGE 3===
ee be an a been a can agree to me w a pe necessary and will meet
next on 11/19 at the DPW
Business Manager Report - Fitchburg Usage Invoice for $15,494.12. Maintenance Plan - Wright Pierce asked to
come to the 11/19 meeting to discuss the draft proposal, but the Commission asked Barb to invite them to the first
meeting in December instead and to request a copy of the draft ahead of time. State Law Seminar is on YouTube.
Letter from Greg Cucchiara - re. pro-rating of sewer charges. Joan asked for a volunteer to research the regulation
for pro-rating and Dave said he will review it. The Commission will discuss it at the first December meeting.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings -
Public Comment- Dave announced that Nov 13th will be a celebration for all veterans at Devens Commons Center.
Meal reservations can be made with the Salvation Army.
Motion: Ryan S.
To adjourn: 9:05pm
Second: Mike N.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted
Bare
ил.
*Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Letter by Town Counsel regarding Small Water Systems Services
Updated engineering drawing for 189 Cross Road, provided by Bill Hannigan
