===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PUBLIC COMMENT - Dan Proctor sent Barb an emall regarding assessment for his new bullding as a service station
(no gas) with 2 bays but feels that is inaccurate. Regarding the sewer privilege assessment, he will be selling 400
Electric Ave. and he needs to put the privilege fee just on just 380 & 390 Electric Ave. Commission suggested that
Dan submit a written request to discuss at a future meeting.
APPOINTMENTS-
Kevin Olson, Matt Corbin - Wright Pierce - Preliminary meeting to discuss Maintenance Plan proposal- Matt
reviewed the proposed schedule with a kick-off meeting in early April with Small Water and Jack (DW). Commission
discussed GIS data available and obtaining various reports from the Commission, Small Water and Flow
Assessment. Commission discussed a Capital Plan, along with compiling a list of spare parts that had been
purchased. In April, Wright-Pierce will compile all data and visit each of the 10 pump stations to take stock. During
the summer, they will review the data and develop a draft Maintenance Plan with a documentation procedure. The
draft plan will be prepared in August with a final plan submitted in September. Commission discussed the format for
the document, with options for tracking the work as it is completed. Kevin suggested looking at a GIS based
application. Matt inquired about the contract and Barb said she can send the basic contract she had received from
Town Counsel. Kevin said he could get a contract together quick and Barb will add the contract discussion to 3/26
meeting. Kevin asked if Small Water has anyone certified under NASCO and added that the certification could help
standardize the observations. Kevin suggested receiving a year's worth of logs. Commission discussed issues with
the pump stations and doing CCTV of some of the pipes. Carl asked if they can suggest how to reduce the number of
different sizes and types of pumps and give recommendations regarding jetting. Commission discussed routine
maintenance being done by Small Water.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Annual Town meeting warrant articles approval - Barb handed out the draft of the sewer articles for the 5/4/19
Town Meeting. The articles are the Sewer Enterprise Fund Budget article, Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund transfer
and the OPEB Trust Fund transter.
Motion: John R.
Second: Ryan S.
To approve the three Annual Town Meeting Sewer Commission warrant articles as drafted.
Vote: Unanimous
FY20 Budget - Carl gave the presentation to FinCom and was encouraged by the questions asked.
DPW tasks definition and expectations discussion- Commission discussed compiling a list of tasks, a scope of
activity for the Town Manager and items that could be outsourced. Commission agreed that the first step is to
generate a list of tasks and next step to meet with the Town Manager (Heather) and DPW Manager (Jack).
Commission discussed improving communication concerning problems with pump stations. They agreed to discuss
the list prior to meeting with Heather & Jack. Commission will compile list and discuss the list at the April 9" meeting.
Town Charter Hearing review update- Carl spoke at the hearing and gave the Commission's request to not change
the charter paragraph or to add the exclusion of the Commission. Charter Committee will be discussing all input from
the hearing on 3/13. Carl expressed concern about the wording of "gives full jurisdiction over the use and rental" of
the sewer and whether it applies to the Commission. Commission further discussed if the sewer could be a town
facility since it is supported by the users. It was determined that they would get clarification from counsel whether the
sewer equipment is considered a town facility as implied in the charter paragraph. Town Caucus 3/11- John and
Carl were nominated. Grease Trap/Interceptor Spring inspections discussion - FOG Audit- Joan reported that
===PAGE 2===
Minutes of 3/5/19
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes for 3/5/19.
Second: Joan P.
Vote: Unanimous
Business Manager Report - Meter reading import- Northern Data contract went out and they will be assigning a
project manager. Barb is unable to change the meter id's currently in Munis so will be addressing that with them.
Barb will be sending out the 1/l 3rd party RFP after adding the insurance section per Town Manager request.
Commission signed off on the FY20 Flow Assessment Contract. Invoices - none. Barb also advised the
Commission of the West Street pump station failure and reported that Jack is working with Small Water and they are
diagnosing whether the pumps can be rebuilt. She added that Jack communicated with the Chairman and is having
SWSS order another Flyte pump to replace the one now taken out of spares inventory.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Grease Trap Regulations letter, Maintenance Plan Contract, Dan
Proctor connection fee, Irrigation Meter changeover.
Barb announced that they would pass over the Executive Session as we had not received a response from counsel.
Public Comment - none
Motion: Joan P.
To adjourn: 8:33pm.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
