===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Al Wernick, Jaxx & Bad Larry's - non-compliance status for grease trap permit renewals- did not show up.
PUBLIC COMMENT-Ryan reported that he went on the pump station tour with Wright Pierce and Robert from
SWSS. Ryan visited several of the pump stations and brought up some issues from the visits, including testing of
alarms, and the Leominster Road station's repair issues with the electrical service. Jack suggested that Ryan may
want to also tour with the generator people..
CURRENT BUSINESS -
SWSS contract and invoice discussion - Commission discussed the updated contract in order to update new
members and discussed the cost for the generator maintenance. The signed contract has been sent back to SWSS.
The Commission discussed Carl's request to get copies of invoices from SWSS, going back 7 years. Carl explained
that he wanted to look at 7 years of data to verify the large number of recent callouts. The Commission discussed
looking at what was paid during the year and compare it to what the contract entailed. Carl said that it looks like the
Commission is spending $5-10,000 over the contract. The Commission agreed to have SWSS come to meetings, at
least quarterly and to ask Deb to come to a meeting to discuss billing. They agreed to invite SWSS to Oct 15'h
meeting to discuss the bills and callouts. The Commission also discussed concerns over service and extra charges
since Al left SWSS. Joan noted that SWSS was the only one to bid on this year's RFP. She added that Jack and
Barb thoroughly go over every invoice from SWSS and call them about any charges they question-often getting
adjustments to the invoice. The Commission discussed getting more detailed line items on the budget and finding out
what was spent annually with SWSS above the contract for the past 7 years.
Leominster IMA discussion - bill basis, debt service payment - Carl, as liaison to Leominster, met with Roger
Books today. Roger is retired now but is still the water and sewer manager. Leominster wants to convert to billing via
the Graham Street meter starting van. 1st. The Commission discussed the volume going to Leominster and Fitchburg
and the groundwater issue causing I/l issues. They also discussed the calculations for the rates with Leominster and
Fitchburg. Carl noted that they can still negotiate. Jack suggested asking Roger to charge 33% of total starting
January 1st and 66% after 6 months, to allow Lunenburg to work on I/l and to do a gradual increase to customers.
The Commission discussed having the Graham Street meter checked and talking to Flow Assessment about
calibration. Carl added that the l/l 3rd party contract with Woodward & Curran is to look at pump station data and
identify what areas are contributing the most I/l. Capital Improvement - Carl explained the capital improvement
payments for Leominster that will need to be budgeted in the next fiscal year. Dave suggested having town counsel
put together a package to negotiate the debt service payment. The Commission agreed to have Carl and Barb talk to
Town Counsel to come up with a plan for negotiating the debt service. New member updates- Maintenance Plan
Contract- Carl summarized the project with Wright Pierce to develop a Maintenance Plan. Joan will ask Barb when
Wright Pierce will be coming in to give an update on the project. 3rd Party I/l Contract with Woodward & Curran-
Joan said that the contract is with Town Counsel, with no change in price. Jack suggested working with Woodard &
Currran about breaking the contract in pieces with values so that if they don't do certain activities, they could take
reduce the cost. The Commission signed the Privilege fee Assessment for 146 Lancaster Ave which had been
voted on at the 8/12 meeting and the Q1 Commitment for $214,203.73.
Jaxx & Bad Larry's - Joan explained the payment plans for past due penalty fees but added that she is not in favor
of reducing the end of year renewal fee. The Commission reviewed the renewal fees and fee for late renewals. Bad
Larry's is non-compliant for late logs three times and Jaxx renewed late and missed the pumping deadline.
===PAGE 2===
To adjourn: 8:09pm
Respectively submitted,
Vote: Unanimous
