===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Data Collection - Matt Corbin reported they received information from the Sewer Commission and the town. They
also obtained information from Flow Assessment regarding the flow meters and their typical quarterly inspection
activities. John M. (SWSS) has copies of the maintenance, pump work and inspections reports that they send
monthly to Jack and the Sewer Commission. Carl asked about the logs for the run hours. John M replied that he
keeps the sheets at each station and will have Kim puts them into an Excel spreadsheet. The reports go back to
September 2017.
Albe reported that SWSS checks all 10 stations every Monday and Friday and the 3 main pump houses on
Wednesdays. They check run times, probes, and faults. They also do a visual inspection of tanks, pull & clean
probes, and check for rodents-especially near generators. There is no formal checklist since every station is different.
For example, Mass 1 station has issues with the vacuum and the probes and needs to be checked. The biggest
problem had been power outages, especially at Leominster Rd station which had been rectified by Unitil. Joan
suggested having someone from Wright Pierce accompany SWSS on inspections to see what is done. John R.
asked if they pump down low enough to see debris. John M. replied that they can only pump down so far-the pumps
need to stay covered or they will burn out. Once a year Hall Pump comes to pump down at all stations to clean out
grease and debris. The West St. station had a problem with 2 pumps but luckily the Commission had the spare
pump. They have received a new pump, so West St. will be back to 2 pumps.
Jack said he is very happy with SWSS' work. Wright Pierce will be putting SWSS's customized work into a written
Maintenance Plan, for future referral and as a living document. Joan asked if any forecasting will be done for future
planning. John M. replied that is why it's so important to have the spare parts-especially since some have up to a 6-
month lead time. Jack mentioned a capital plan for the stations. Kevin replied that they do capital plans for other
communities. As they develop the Maintenance plan, if they see a major issue, they will make recommendations.
SWSS gives a report monthly to Jack on routine and major repairs done. John M. has worked with Sean at Flygt to
find a pump to use in more than one station. They are working on finding pumps that will work in more than one
station to make stocking spares less costly.
Matt said the next step is to tour the stations and that they will work with SWSS to coordinate a date. SWSS
suggested either a Monday or Friday. They will notify the Commission when the date is scheduled. John M. asked
about the Maintenance Plan they are developing. Jack replied that SWSS can review the plan that Wright Pierce
develops. If they come up with additional tasks outside of the scope for SWSS, then the Commission can do an
addendum to the contract. Matt asked for a copy of the SWSS's scope. John M. said his main concern is personnel
time. All agreed that it would be a full day and will do a thorough job-even if it takes 2 days. Kevin added that they
may look at the flow metering stations with Flow Assessment. Carl asked to have jetting added to the plan. The group
discussed the rags, mopheads and other items that clog the stations and effective methods to make users aware of
the problem. Matt said after they get all the data, they will develop the plan and the routine maintenance. Kevin
suggested looking at the drawings before the site visits to find the force main valves in the line. Problems with
pressure in the force main could cause a block.
===PAGE 2===
stations's requirements. In John M's opinion, it is still cheaper to get parts to keep old pumps working rather than
upgrading the station.
Motion: Joan P.
To adjourn at 11:04 am
Respectively submitted,
Love of me,
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
