===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Commission would be signing the amendment to the assessment previously sent to him which removed
400 Electric Ave. and correcting the parcel ID on the privilege fee assessed to 380-390 Electric Ave...
Commission discussed verifying the Title V classification with Jim Gareffi of the Board of Health. Barb
added that the permit to connect and connection fees are all set.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: John R.
To approve the amended order of assessment for 380-390 Electric Ave., taking 400 Electric
Avenue off of the assessment.
Vote: Unanimous
The Commission signed the amended order of assessment.
Wright Pierce - Matt Corbin, Kevin Olson - Maintenance Plan - Barb communicated with Matt and he
responded that the contract needed to be signed and their next step would be the kick-off meeting to
include Jack (DPW) and SWSS. Commission discussed possible dates for the kick-off meeting and will
coordinate a date with Wright Pierce, SWSS and Jack. One Commissioner stated that they would like it to
be scheduled when they return from a trip so there would more likely be a quorum. Commission reviewed
the Scope of Services for the Maintenance Plan. The Commission reviewed and signed the contract
approved by both Town Counsel and Wright Pierce.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Town Charter discussion - Commission discussed Town Counsel's opinion on the wording in
paragraph 4-2(i) of the Charter as to whether the sewer is considered a town facility and discussed the
usage of the phrase "full jurisdiction of the town manager". Commission did not reach agreement on
proposed changes and will continue discussion regarding the charter wording
Proposed Agenda Statement - Barb talked to Town Counsel and he said that the clause did not conflict
with Open Meeting Law. He wouldn't necessarily recommend it, but it does no harm.
Motion: John R.
Second: Carl L.
To add the new wording to the Sewer Commission agenda.
Vote: John-yes, Carl-yes, Joan abstain.
Motion did not pass.
Irrigation Meter discussion with Water District - Joan and Carl attended the Water Commission
meeting and a motion was passed to charge the Sewer Commission $ 500/year for the first 2 years and $
750/year thereafter, for Irrigation meter readings. Carl added that not everyone will be on the new system
right away, but they should be after 2 years. The Water District didn't think there will be any up-front costs
but if there are, the Sewer Commission would pay them. The Commission discussed the next steps for
implementing the process and Barb will put together a list of topics for discussion. The discussion of the
process and policy will be added to the agenda for the first meeting in May. DPW tasks discussion-
Commission reviewed and discussed Carl's draft task list for the Town Manager's responsibilities.
Commission discussed the review of weekly pump station logs from SWSS, information regarding
meetings and discussed support to residents, business, contractors and business manager. Commission
also discussed maintenance plan activities and budget issues including invoice review/approvals and line
item transfers. Commission discussed and agreed to have Barb provide quarterly budget status reports,
reflecting account line item amounts. Commission discussed having DPW manager or Town Manager
and a representative of the pump station contractor attend a, number of Sewer Commission meetings per
===PAGE 2===
sign up for the program but wanted John Londa to review the contract first.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: John R.
To accept the contract, pending review by John Londa and/or Town Counsel.
Vote: Unanimous
Grease Trap Program update- Correspondence - Barb has completed the letters to be sent to the
Grease Trap customers.
Minutes-3/12 and Minutes- 3/26 will be held to next meeting due to the late hour.
Business Manager Report - Prospect St. extension request has been withdrawn. The O&M RFP
pre-proposal
conference will be on 4/17 at 1pm. Barb reported that Peter Dulchinos, the Receivor
for the Meadowwoods Trailer Park had passed away. Barb noted that the Selectmen's office
requested any slides for Town Meeting presentation be submitted by 4/18. The Commission agreed to
keep the presentation simple. Barb is away from 4/18 - 4/26. Asian Imperial is adding a prep area with
a 2-basin sink and will submit a schematic of the plumbing once complete. Executive session - Barb
does not have a document yet from Mead Talerman but opposing counsel has received the most recent
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Irrigation policy & process, DPW task list
Public Comment-none
Motion: Joan P.
Second: John R.
To adjourn at 8:54pm
Vote: Unanimous
Handouts:
Wright Pierce Scope of Services
Counsel's April 9, 2019 input regarding the Charter verbiage
Counsel input on the adding the BOS statement to the Agenda
Carl's draft of DPW task list
Nexamp Community Solar Summary for Pump Stations and Contract
