===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
used only by his mechanic to work on their vehicles and small engines of rental equipment. Barb received input on
the Title V determination from Jim Gareffi, regional Board of Health agent. He'd suggested that the garage can be
considered a warehouse, since it will not have a public waiting room. Carl inquired about the office building and Dan
replied it will be office upstairs and retail downstairs. Carl replied that it would cost less to classify it as retail and Dan
agreed. Barb added that reclassifying the garage as a warehouse would reduce the connection fee to $3770.90 and
eliminate the privilege fee.
Motion: Joan P.
Second: John R.
To change the 380-390 Electric Ave. from a 2-bay service station to a warehouse.
Vote: Unanimous
Dan's second request is to release 400 Electric Ave., which he will be selling, from the privilege fee on 380-390
Electric Ave. Barb reported that Town Counsel said it can be done and the Commission would need to sign off on it.
Barb read Counsel's input. Dan replied that he would need to confirm with the buyer's attorney first and get back to
Barb, who would then run it by Town Counsel. Barb added that the original assessment has been paid and 400
Electric Ave. shows nothing owed. The Commission will vote on the release at the 4/9 meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT-Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street - was asking about sewer commission changes to the
charter update. Carl replied that the Commission's concern is with 2 sections and they've agreed to not recommend
further changes. The Commission discussed the wording of "full jurisdiction over town facilities" and they have asked
for Town Counsel's input on whether the sewer is considered a town facility. Dave added that he is concerned about
elected officials being responsible to the Town Manager and will be moving a few articles at town meeting regarding
this issue.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Irrigation Meter Changeover discussion- Carl reported that he communicated with Mark Bursch, Water
Commission, to set up a meeting. Carl and Joan plan to attend the 3/27 Water Commission meeting to discuss their
potential assistance with Irrigation Meter readings. The Commission further discussed the start-up costs and how the
fees will be collected. Maintenance plan- Barb reported that Wright Pierce has received the contract that counsel
provided and their CFO is reviewing. It is not yet ready for discussion and will be on the next agenda. Grease
Trap/Interceptor inspections discussion - Commission discussed sending out a letter to remind users of
regulations and explaining that inspections will be done. Barb will draft a letter and send before the next meeting.
The Commission will need to discuss a plan for doing the audit of the food establishments
Solar Credit program discussion- Commission discussed the solar credit program proposed by Nexamp. John
Londa had provided information on the current solar credit program and how it was divided between town facilities,
not including sewer. Carl added that Nexamp is getting setup to do solar that the town and residents can take
advantage of for a 15% discount on electricity and wants the Commission to be added to the waiting list. Nexamp has
asked for the most current electric bills in order to provide a proposal to the Commission. Barb will provide these to
them.
400 Electric Ave approval status- Barb reported that Leominster had approved the plan and asked the
Commission to review and confirm the connection costs, so the owner can proceed.
Motion: Joan P.
To approve the potential connection costs of $30,802.10 for 400 Electric Ave.
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
===PAGE 2===
on the Town Meeting warrant which he has done. Barb will ask him to come to the 4/9 meeting tor discussion. Car
asked if Barb got a response from Town Counsel about the Town Charter issue. Barb replied that he did not have a
clear response yet but she will send it out when she receives it. Carl asked about the SWSS report on the West
Street pump failure on 2/28. They reported that the pumps were clogged with rags that needed to be cleaned out
and pumps were started again. The Commission discussed whether a new pump was installed. Barb said that SWSS
did replace a pump and new pumps have been ordered. Commission discussed whether or not the statement added
to the Board of Selectmen agenda, stating that they may discuss items not on the agenda should be added to their
agenda and Commission agreed to get input from Town Counsel. Carl added that they are still waiting for
information on which manholes were replaced and Joe asked John to talk to Jack (DPW) about the manhole list and
his day-to-day operations.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - for 4/9 - DPW tasks definition and expectations, Prospect St.
expansion, Water Commission meeting update, Town Counsel input on Charter, Maintenance Plan contract with
Wright-Pierce, O&M Pump Station and I/l 3rd Party RFP's updates, and 400 Electric document approval; For future
meetings- Discuss audit plan for grease trap inspections, SWSS to come in after the Wright Pierce Maintenance
Plan kickoff.
Public Comment - John noted that he was glad that the Commission was able to reduce fees for Dan Proctor,
based on the additional information received.
Motion: Ryan S.
To adjourn: 7:45pm
an L
prospectively suote ne
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Second: John R.
Vote: Unanimous
