===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
will be applied. Irrigation meters must be upgraded to remote reading capability by 9/1 to continue in the program.
Participants that do not intend to upgrade need to contact Barb. The meter program fees were due 6/4 and must be
received in order to receive a credit on the August billing. Barb added that she has only received responses from
about half of the participants and the Commission will discuss the meter policy regarding fee payment later in the
PUBLIC COMMENT-Carl clarified that all town offices are open by appointment only and he congratulated his fellow
members on their election. John noted that he was sworn in earlier in the day. Dave said he was proud of the town
turnout for the Town Election.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Election of Officers -
John nominated Dave as Chair and Mike seconded.
Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye
Carl nominated John as Vice-Chair and Brett seconded. Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye
John nominated Brett as Clerk and Carl seconded.
Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye
(Brett left the meeting.)
RFP. Station Operations & Maintenance - Jack stated that the Commission did their due diligence with the RFP
and Town Counsel had only made language changes to the document. Carl added that he went through the new
document in detail and noted it is much better and concise but he has some notes to share with everyone for the
discussion prior to voting. The Commission discussed this and agreed to have Carl sent Barb his changes which she
can distribute to the Commission, then she and Jack are to review and forward to Counsel for his input. Carl wants to
talk directly with counsel if they have any questions regarding Carl's notes.
361 Mass Ave - Bright Farms proposed project - status, payment of Sewer Allocation - Barb was contacted by
the Lunenburg Nominee Trust(LNT), stating that they are closing on the sale of the property in July and they were
requesting the payoff figure. Barb added that Town Counsel will calculate the figure with interest, which might create
a credit from Fitchburg for early payment. Barb gave a short history of the Highfield property which was a proposed
development of 66 homes which LNT withdrew from consideration. The Commission had allocated a certain amount
of capacity for sewer from Fitchburg and an agreement was put in place to maintain the allotment for eventual sale of
property. The agreement was signed a year ago and now the property is being sold. Carl noted that the next budget
season, the Commission will have to decide how to use that money. He added that the Commission will be paying
Fitchburg for the next 20 years and they are not able to pay it off early.
Irrigation Meter Policy update discussion - Barb reported she only received payments from 31 out of 57
participants but had a lot of responses after the DPW dropped off requests to call in meter readings. Since many
have still not paid their meter fees, Barb proposed sending out a letter giving 30 days to pay the fee, or they will be
withdrawn from the program. She read her proposed change to the Irrigation Meter Policy and Credit Program and
the Commission discussed the change in policy. Barb will send out the reminder letter advising those who owe the
fee that they have 30 days to pay. Barb will send the Commission the proposed changes to the policy for their review
at the next meeting.
YTD FY20 Budget- Barb sent the Commissioners the updated FY20 budget and said they still have about $100k of
revenue above expenses. Carl asked to clarity that they can't spend more than what the town authorizes at town
meeting. Commission discussed legal services invoices and Carl wants actual costs shown when the budget is
===PAGE 2===
where properties were sold. She needs verbal approval from the Commission so she can forward the commitments
to the town accountant, to be followed up by signed copies when that is possible.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: John R.
To approve the end-of-year commitment of $761.32.
Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye
Leominster IMA billing changeover to flow meters-update - Dave would like to set up a meeting with Jack and
Roger (Leominster) to discuss the billing changeover. Commission discussed and supported having Dave and Jack
meet with Roger. Barb added that Roger works 1 day/week, and that his replacement has been hired.
Grease Trap discussion of annual effective date of 8/1 application, fees due 7/1 - Barb noted that the annual
renewal for Grease Trap permits is coming up and asked the Commission's opinion concerning the fees in light of the
Covid crisis. Dave suggested waiving the fees for a couple of months. The Commission discussed and agreed to
help the businesses by waiving annual fee in full for FY21.
Motion: John R.
Second: Carl L.
To waive the annual permit fees for Grease Traps for FY21. Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye
Barb will send letters out to establishments with grease traps.
Minutes of 6/9 meeting-
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To accept the minutes for 6/9/20.
Vote: Mike-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye and Carl abstained.
Business Manager Report - Barb reported that the 3 budget articles passed at the 6/13 Town Meeting and the
article for the FY20 Retained Earnings Transfer was passed over. She added that the 1170 Mass Ave document
has been notarized and recorded. Michael Ray Jeffreys asked Barb to convey his thanks to the Commission for
seeing it through to a positive resolution. Invoices - Woodward & Curran - $11,161.14 (pump station analysis, I/l
evidence evaluation and prep for Interim Meeting). There is $12k left on the contract. Fitchburg invoice (4/26-5/25)
for $11,308.74. The Commission agreed to pay the invoices. Barb added that she will be out the following week on
vacation.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Dave suggested scrapping the budget and make it simpler. The
Commission discussed and agreed to look at it in a workshop. Dave also said he would like to expand sewer
especially in the commercial areas on Chase Road. Carl reminded all that originally the plan was to sewer the town,
but residents did not agree as development would change town rural character. He agreed that it is okay to help
individuals and provide a good service. Dave agreed that he does not want to sewer the whole town but would like to
discuss expansion in Commercial areas. John said he has mixed emotions about expanding but would like to discuss
possible expansions. Dave added that he would like to make the Commission and Business Manager's job easier
and more efficient regarding the budget. Carl inquired about the meter import for billing project and Barb replied that
she needs to talk to the Town Manager.
Public Comment - Mike thanked everyone for their support in being elected to the Commission and looks forward to
working on making the business more efficient. Carl noted that Harvard, where he previously lived, decided to only
keep sewer in the center of town, to preserve its rural character. John inquired about the attendance at the Town
Meeting and Carl replied around 60 residents attended. Dave thanked the Town Clerk for setting up the Town
===PAGE 3===
(Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
FY20 Budget update
