===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUVINILUU
Resignation of 2 Commissioners - Carl noted that Joan Pease and Ryan Stober had resigned and added that they
are missed already. The Commission reviewed the list of terms open for commissioners and Barb stated that there
will be 4 openings on the town election ballot.
Election of Officers- The Commission discussed and agreed to elect new officers at the next meeting.
FY21 Budget discussion and approval- The Commission reviewed Barb's updated draft budget. Barb noted that
last quarter 29% of the customer base is billed the minimum charge of $97.20. Dave said that they all know they
need to raise rates, but asked if they would need to do it now or after town meeting? Commission discussed options
for the timing of the rate increase. John added that as a rate payer, he would be concerned if he only heard about an
increase at the town meeting. Mike suggested getting all the facts first before going to the town meeting. Dave said
that he talked with Jack (DW) about options for investigating spikes in flow, especially to Leominster. He also added
that they need to let the users know the Commission is working on finding the sources of I/l to try to keep the rates
down. The Commission discussed the Leominster rates and the IMA, which states that Lunenburg pays per the cubic
foot for what flows to Leominster. The Commission reviewed the figures for Leominster usage and the increase in
projected costs due to the IMA. Barb added that the Fitchburg rate will increase 8% each year. Carl stated that the
Leominster IMA was negotiated in 2004 and is due to be re-negotiated in 2024. The Commission discussed the
large increase in costs for the FY21 Small Water Services contract. Barb added that SWSS has a new billing and
tracking system, plus they lost a long-term employee. Carl pointed out that there are more call outs and system is not
as reliable as in the past. The Commission discussed clarifying the contract, writing a new RFP and looking for bids.
They will discuss the Small Water Services (SWSS) contract with Town Counsel. The Commission discussed the
increase in costs for generator maintenance. They also discussed having a separate line for capital expenditures and
figures for infrastructure costs for the pump station repairs. They further discussed the revenue lines in the budget,
including the Reserve Capacity Fund transfers, which will be used towards payments to Fitchburg for increased
capacity. Barb said that Town Counsel will come to the meeting on 2/11 to discuss the SWSS contract and SWSS
will come to the 2/25 meeting. All agreed that major parts should be a capital expense. Barb added that there has
been discussion with Flow Assessment regarding the telemetry of the meters and there may be a cost in upgrading
the flow meters. The Commission discussed other "Purchase of service" amounts, including legal costs, engineering
and the flow metering contract. They also discussed working directly with Weld for generator maintenance. Barb
added that they should start seeing results from the solar credits in April. She noted that in the FY20 budget, postage
was reduced in anticipation of outsourced bill printing, but she is waiting on that until the meter import project is
completed. The Commission discussed the figures for increases for Leominster usage. Carl questioned if the liability
insurance for pump stations is adequate as they are valued at $2.8 million. The Commission requested that Barb ask
Heather if the pump stations are adequately covered. Commission also discussed the shortfalls, potential rate
increase and increasing the minimum charge.
FinCom presentation will be March 19. Dave will give the presentation to FinCom and Board of Selectmen.
Small Water Systems Services (SWSS) - Invoices were already discussed, Spare Parts discussion - Barb
reported that Albe (SWSS) requested 2 seals for Dana St. Last meeting, the Commission voted to buy 1 seal for
Dana St and 1 for Leominster Rd. After discussion, the Commission agreed to only order 1 seal for each station.
Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles discussion -Commission discussed 5 Chestnut St. and 711 Mass Ave.
properties and agreed no action was needed at present. FY19 Annual Town Report - will discuss at 2/11 meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Commission also will let users know what has been done to keep costs down. Commission discussed the meetings
with Town Counsel on 2/11 and SWSS on 2/25. The December SWSS monthly report is on the google drive. 33
Elizabeth St. I/l letter-was sent last week but she has not received a reply yet. Barb will have an answer from town
counsel at the 2/11 meeting regarding Michael-Ray Jeffrey's betterment request.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - none
Public Comment- Brett thanked the Commission for letting him attend. Dave suggested looking at having a
Commercial rate and Residential rate.
Motion: Dave M.
To adjourn at 9:59pm
Second: Mike N.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submitted,
Carle
7
