===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
mictel progrant laco were due drtaru lnut taure dy te de tagala cdn bn dar ana da ban dai
PUBLIC COMMENT-Dave announced that Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Manager, will be retiring and he thanked Jack for
all he has done for the town and the Sewer Commission. He added that Jack is a man of his word and he will be
missed
CURRENT BUSINESS -
RFP- Pumping station Operations & Maintenance-Barb had received the final RFP and has emailed it to the
Commissioners. The RFP was finalized with help of the Town Manager, Adam (Counsel) and Jack. Barb will be
sending it to the Central Register and Ledger. Julie (Assistant Town Manager) will send it to the state purchasing
program, CommBuys. The Commissioners were all in agreement with the RFP. Barb stated the schedule: 8/12 -
pre-proposal conference, 8/21- Proposals due, and 9/1- contract awarded. Dave added the next step will be the
interviews with responders.
Irrigation (Deduct) Meter Policy revision- Barb noted that they are changing the name to Deduct Meter Policy in
order to avoid confusion, as not all meters are for irrigation. She added that there was also a change to the section
on the fees, how they are assessed and what will happen if not paid. Also that the Building Department handles the
Plumbing permits. Barb said that the Commission needs to vote to approve the policy changes and they will hold 2
public hearings before it is officially accepted.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To accept the Deduct Meter policy and credit program as updated on 7/28/20.
Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike-aye and Dave-aye
Barb added that she will put it on the agenda and post the change in the Lunenburg Ledger in advance of the
hearings to alert customers.
Bright Farms Project discussion- Barb reported that it is still in the planning stage and reviewed the project. It will
be a lettuce growing greenhouse business and will be located on the former Highfield Village property. Dave added
that they are still going through the approval process with other departments and they may request a special meeting
with the Sewer Commission, as they are on a tight schedule.
Grease Trap annual renewal- Barb mailed out the annual renewal letters. The Commission had agreed to waive the
fees, but the renewal application still needs to be sent in.
YTD FY20 Budget- Barb reported that the FY20 Budget is still not final because they have been asked to not
process invoices for encumbered purchase orders. Dave asked if the town budget has been affected by the Covid
crisis and Barb replied that mostly the invoices have been paid as normal. Dave added that the Commission will be
working on simplifying the budget for the future.
Minutes for 7/14/20 -
Motion: Mike D.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the minutes for 7/14/20.
Vote: Brett, Mike, Dave- aye. John - abstain.
Business Discussion- Counsel hours - Barb explained that the town appointed Mead, Talerman and Costa as
Town Counsel and Adam Costa provides counsel open hours. A Doodle poll is sent electronically each month for any
staff or elected commission member to sign up for a 20-minute session with Adam. Anything outside of the counsel
hours is billable. Dave added that Barb should be the point person and the Commission discussed how to use the
counsel hours. Barb added that they cannot go to counsel as a group but could have Adam come to a meeting for a
group discussion. Barb said she has gone to counsel hours in the past to get an opinion on processes and reports
===PAGE 2===
looking at the I/l data. She added that the meter ids need to be entered first. Dave said that Jane can work with Barb
to get this done and the cost will need to be approved by Heather, but he did not think it was part of the contracts
scope of work. Barb clarified that it was something they asked Woodward & Curran (WaC) to do to correlate the
billing usage vs the water usage. Dave suggested sending Carl's recommendation to the Town Manager. The
Commission discussed the issue and asked Barb to send the scope and project out to the Commissioners. Barb
noted that they have paid W&c 90% of the contract amount and Dave added that the contract would not be paid until
it is complete. Barb estimated 40-50 hours to get meter ids into the system, at a cost of $700-900. The Commission
discussed and agreed to support Barb, but they should assess if it needs to be done now. Barb added that currently,
she enters all the water data each billing cycle and the meter import would automatically import the data from the
water district, which will save time. Maintenance plan Barb reported that Heather and Jack have been reviewing
the plan. Jack has wanted the focus to be on the RFP since we were working with a deadline. Barb added that they
will to add the discussion to an upcoming agenda. Invoices - Fitchburg - $10,717 (end of May -end of June), Mead,
Talerman & Costa - $689 (Highfield Village & Bright Farms-change of ownership through 7/20) Grease Trap
Program-Barb is just missing 1 log for the 1st Tuesday report and has sent a reminder. She is receiving most logs.
Communication - Barb reported that she has sent agendas and minutes out to the department heads, as
requested. Dave added that this is a good way to start communicating.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- Dave encouraged all members to give their suggestions for future
discussions.
Public Comment - none
Next meetings: August 11t and 25th, via remote participation.
Motion: John R.
To adjourn: 6:08pm
Second: Brett R.
Vote: Vote: Brett, Mike, Dave- aye. John-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Ent Randy/
'Rand only,
Handouts:
Final RFP
Carl's email of 7/28/20 re: V/1 3rd Party Review
