===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Empey Contract - Barb spoke to Counsel regarding the effective date. The contract was written up as starting on
9/15, but she didn't receive all the documents needed from Empey until 9/24 and contract was not all signed off until
9/25. Karen B. (town accountant) recommended starting on 9/26 since the interim contract covered until 9/25, but
Empey asked to change the effective date as they had a bond in place for 9/15. Barb talked to Counsel, who said
that there is a better paper trail supporting a start date of 9/26, since contracts usually do not begin until they are
signed. Barb asked for the Commissioners' decision as to the start date and she noted that Empey has not billed
since 9/14. Commission agreed that it should begin 9/26.
Motion: Mike D.
Second: Brett R.
To start the Pump Station Operations & Maintenance Contract with Empey on 9/26/20
Vote: Mike-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye
Dave asked Barb to contact Empey regarding attending the 10/27 meeting so the Commissioners can meet them. He
also suggested any members interested in seeing the pump stations, should schedule time with Jack (DPW) before
he retires.
Bright Farms Project updates- Nick Long - Barb noted that the peer review did not deal with the sewer as the
sewer plans had not been received at the time. She just received the plans, which were sent to the Commissioners
and Graves Engineering. Sean (Bright Farms) provided the estimate of 4,500 gallons/day and Barb calculated the
connection fee as $31,500, based on that gallonage. Nick said he was attending the meeting to answer any
questions. Dave asked Barb to send the Commissioners the correspondence with Bright Farms regarding the
connection fees. Dave added that he is very happy Bright Farms is coming to town and for Nick to let the
Commission know if there is anything they can do to expedite the process. Brett asked when they will break ground
and Nick replied they are hoping to have approval from the Planning Board in October. When they get their
stormwater permit, they hope to start some clearing in mid-November but not be doing any foundation work until
spring. Mike asked if they would be able to walk the grounds after they break ground and Nick replied he would talk
to Sean about that. Dave asked when they will do the connection. Nick replied that they will connect to a stub off of
Mass Ave. and run a main line up to the building. Nick asked if that would be considered a main line extension from
the 10" stub or is it considered a lateral? Barb said she would need to confirm it with Jack (DPW). Nick added that
they are working through the process with Fitchburg concerning the flows. Barb noted that they are proposing to
meter the wastewater separately in order to reduce the usage and had advised them that they would need
Fitchburg's approval as well as Lunenburg permits. Dave asked Barb to make sure Fitchburg knows that the
Commission met and is anxious to keep project moving forward
I/l 3rd Party Data Final Report and Billing tool status - Barb noted that she received the final report and sent it to
the Commissioners. Carl emailed that he did not review it yet and if possible, not vote on it until the 10/13 meeting.
Barb and Carl had a zoom meeting with Woodward & Curran (W & C) to discuss and make a few changes to the
billing tool. She has received the link for the updated tool. The contract stated that the training would be a full day,
but Lauren said the zoom call was it. Barb added that she did not think a full day's training would be required. She
read from an email that Carl had sent for the meeting, including that he would "consider documenting W & C's
support via a call as required or committing to a minimum hours of online support over the next year" and requesting
a "written warranty that the algorithm and equations work" since they can't fully validate them due to incomplete data
===PAGE 2===
article for the town meeting.
YTD FY21 Budget - Barb reported the Revenues to date are $323,587.45, which includes the Highfield payment.
The expenses are $243,469.77, which includes the indirect transfers done by the town Accountant. Dave suggested
continuing to monitor the budget as they go forward.
Minutes-9/8/20
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the minutes for 9/8/20.
Second: Mike D.
Vote: Brett-aye, Mike-aye, and Dave-aye.
Minutes - 9/24/20
Motion: Mike D.
To approve the minutes for 9/8/20.
Second: Brett R.
Vote: Mike-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye.
Business Discussion- none
Business Manager Report - Connection policy- Barb sent out the tracked changes to Article 2 in the Sewer
Regulations, in regard to connection process, dealing with providing the tie card, town providing assistance if needed
and low-pressure systems. The contractor or manufacturer's rep would be responsible for turning on the pump's
valve with the manufacturer's key. All agreed.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike D.
To approve the changes to Article 2 Connection Policy in the Sewer Regulations.
Discussion: Barb noted that we'd be approving the policy contained in Article Il and use it for a handout to
contractors, but it would need to have 2 public hearings before they are incorporated into the Sewer Use Regulations.
She would like to see if there are any other updates needed for the regulations before scheduling the hearings.
Vote: Mike-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye.
Invoices- Fitchburg Monthly Usage-$14,042.55, Fitchburg Annual debt payment (John Fitch project) - $20,963.20,
Mead Talerman (through 9/21)- $312.59 (covering discussions on the O&M contract, Empey Bond certificate, and the
4:1 I/l for Bright Farms) Barb noted that the FY21 total for Mead Talerman is at $1,331.60. The Woodward & Curran
invoice will be tabled to 10/13. Meter ID project- Barb reported that Jane has been working on the meter import and
has completed about 2/3's of the meter ID's. Barb did an import test and had 343 that went through, but some that
did not so she needs to work with Munis to find out why those did not go through. and do another test run. She added
when it is all done it will help, but it will still take a lot of administrative time when accounts or ownership change. The
next billing will be run as a parallel billing and then run it on its own for the 2nd billing. Dave asked if they can use the
same billing as Water Department and Barb replied yes- they have a price from Northern Data for the bill print, but
that is something they'll take on after the meter import is complete. Maintenance Plan- Barb said they are preparing
to review the Maintenance Plan again. She will have input from Jack (DPW) and Heather (Town Manager), so it can
be discussed at the 10/13 meeting. Dave added that he would like to discuss it at a meeting before we have Empey
attend a meeting as it would be part of the discussion.. He also suggested Commissioners talk to Jack and Barb so
they can learn that part of the business. 88 Mass. Ave.- Barb received a building permit request to add a pizza
restaurant and a nail salon and the notice of a ZBA Hearing on 10/14 to increase from 3 to 5 units. She has advised
that any Change of Use needs to be approved by the Commission. She added that a pizza shop would involve a
grease trap and the nail salon would involve getting approvals from Fitchburg due to the chemicals they use. Grease
===PAGE 3===
with Jack before he leaves and support Barb with running the business after. Mike noted that his background is in
maintenance and he would like to help with that. Dave asked Mike to be the lead on maintenance with Jack and his
replacement and working with Empey.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 13, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice
October 27, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice
Motion: Mike D.
To adjourn at 6:08pm
Second: Brett R.
Vote: Mike-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye
Respectively submitted,
You s. Henley,
Handouts:
9/29 Email from Carl Luck re. Woodward & Curran Billing Tool
Special Town Meeting 11/17/20 warrant article
