===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Irrigation Meter participants will need to upgrade to a remote reading capable meter by 7/1/20. The policy also will be
discussed later in the meeting. Dave also announced that the state closures will be extended to 5/18 and more
details can be found on the town website.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave said that he hopes everyone who has been shut in can get outside to enjoy the beautiful
weekend coming up.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
RFP finalization - Pump Station Operation & Maintenance - The Commission discussed the finalized copy of the
O&M RFP, and specifically discussed whether to have it based on 10 hrs/week. Jack said it is important to have the
comprehensive checklist from Wright Pierce, which can be added to the RFP. Dave asked if the list would help
eliminate the "gray areas." Barb noted that a contractor would know if it took more than 10 hours. John noted that if
the list was not in the RFP, it may elicit more questions from the bidders, which may be a good thing. Carl said he is
comfortable with the phrase "estimated 10 hours" and it is ok to give a rough scope. He added that he would want it
to be Monday, Wednesday and Friday at a minimum, to set the expectation that the Contractor maintains the stations
enough to guarantee a reliable system. Carl inquired about the contractor checking generators. Jack replied that
Wright Pierce's list has a generator checklist. Carl asked if they can easily check if the generators will come on if
there is a power failure. Jack replied that the tech can shut off the street power to check that the generator comes
on and said this could be added to the list. He added that the tech can keep an eye on the generators, noting repairs
but will not do the repairs. Carl also suggested adding a few rows for markups in the rate chart. Dave asked if the
techs are checking the generator fluids & run times, could they check to make sure it is running? Jack suggested
adding "simulate power failure" to the RFP as part of the checklist at each station. The Commission discussed the
rate chart and markups for parts. Jack added that the town should have vendor accounts setup to avoid markup
costs. The Commission also discussed having a markup percentage for under $1k and over $1k and agreed that
large ticket items would be bought by the town. Barb noted that the RFP states that purchases over $1k would need
to be approved by Jack. Barb will send the draft to Heather and Town counsel for their review and specifically ask for
input regarding markups. Dave told Barb and Jack they did a great job and the RFP is a great document.
RFP for Generator Maintenance -
Motion: John R.
Second-Mike N.
To postpone the discussion of the Generator RFP to next meeting.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, John-aye, Carl-aye, and Dave-aye.
SWSS Contract Termination- - Dave suggested talking to Heather and Counsel and discuss this in executive
session. Barb said that she had forwarded Carl's question to Counsel regarding formal notification to SWSS
concerning their termination and possible breach of contract. Carl noted that the Contract states that they need to
notify them within 10 days regarding breach. Dave asked Barb to send an email to Heather and Adam (Counsel)
requesting what the next action is. Carl noted that the contract states that SWSS needs to provide documentation.
Barb replied that she asked Kim Packard at SWSS for all the weekly reports and she received all except for 1 week.
FY21 Budget finalization and approval - Barb screen-shared the draft FY21 budget. Jack asked if the
Commission agrees with the outsourcing figure of $154k, consisting of $138k pump station contract, $11k generator
maintenance, $4k for billing support and $1k pump station grounds, plus Infrastructure for $50k. The Commission
discussed the budget summary with a 10% increase and without an increase, with transfers from Retained Earnings.
===PAGE 2===
recommends a budget that reflects the costs as best they know today. The Commission discussed the increase
figure and discussions with Leominster. Mike said he is against a big increase considering the state of the economy
and would like to wait a year to know the actual numbers. Carl suggested not doing a rate increase and defer the
budget to the fall Town Meeting. John agreed with a 10% rate increase now and let users know that it may go up
more. Barb added that if the Commission voted on rate increase now, it will not be billed until the Q2 bills, so the
increase would only be for 3 quarters of FY21. If the increase waits until November, the extra revenue would be
pushed out further. Carl suggested if they wait until November to do an increase, they could do a 15% increase. Mike
said he agreed with the 10% increase for now and when they have better figures later, they can decide if they need a
bigger increase. Dave added that they will lose money this year, but they need to tell the customers on 4/30(FinCom
presentation of the budget what is going on and he agrees with the 10% increase for now. Barb said she is in favor
of doing a rate increase in increments. John said he'd rather start with a 10% increase for now, so they are not taking
as much from retained earnings.
Motion: John R
Second: Mike N.
To accept the budget with a 10% increase.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-nay, John- aye and Dave-aye
Carl asked Dave how he plans to present the difficult situation regarding Leominster during the budget presentation.
Dave replied that he will make a statement at the beginning, telling them exactly what is going on with the O&M RFP
and the Leominster increases. He added that no one has talked to Leominster since 3/15 due to the quarantine, so
they do not have any new information.
1170 Mass Ave Betterment document status- Barb received the documents back from counsel and forwarded
them to the Commission. Counsel had made the requested small changes to the document and also had a couple
questions. Barb asked the Commission to confirm that Michael Ray should get an abatement for the betterment for
Q4 onward since he came before them in February. The Commissioners all agreed, and Barb will confirm this with
Michael Ray also. She added that Counsel wants confirmation that the property will stay in the Sewer Service Area
(SSA), even though he cannot connect at this time. Barb read Brian Winners' (Counsel) comment from the document
regarding the property staying in the SSA. Dave said he recollected that the property would stay in the SSA and if
Michael Ray wanted to connect, he would need to work on the easement issue and come back to the Sewer
Commission. Carl and Mike agreed. Barb also read from the document which stated that if the property were to
connect in the future, the connection fee would be reduced by what was already paid as a betterment. Barb said she
did not recall that conversation and the Commission agreed. Barb stated that she will request that counsel remove
that section. Carl noted that he recalls that Michael Ray would need to pay off the betterment before connecting.
Dave agreed and Barb said she will confirm with counsel. After the corrections are done, she will send it to Michael
Ray, then it will come back to the Commission for a vote and signature.
FY20 Invoices for participation in Irrigation Meter Policy- Barb noted she was unable to add the Irrigation Meter
annual fee to the online Q2 and Q3 invoices and suggested that she could send out a separate invoice for the $50
FY20 fee to make sure the revenue is received for FY20. The Commission agreed
Irrigation Meter changeover implementation date - Barb reviewed that she had sent out letters to the participants
last year, advising them that they needed to update the meters by 7/1/20. She had a call from a resident asking if the
Commission would be holding to that date because of the current situation. The Commission discussed this and
agreed to postpone the date for 2 or 3 months, given the quarantine. Barb also pointed out that because of the
original 7/1/20 deadline, they do not have it budgeted for anyone to read the meters for the next quarter and will need
===PAGE 3===
Inflow/Infiltration (I/l) 3rd party review - Barb reported that the billing files Woodward & Curran (W&C) requested
have been posted to their drive and she'd also done an I/l comparison from the last billing. Carl said that WaC know
we are not using the final billing format and that it will likely change when the Sewer billing is switched to Northern
Data. He added that it seems they have everything they need and that they should be able to push for a schedule for
completion.
Minutes-3/10
Carl asked for a correction to read that he would be doing a nomination for John at the Town Caucus and a
correction to 1170 Mass Ave discussion, that there are 8 properties that are not connected.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the minutes for 3/10/20 with changes noted. Roll Call vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye.
Minutes 4/14
Carl asked to correct that he will stay on until at least the town election.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: John R.
To accept the minutes for 4/14 with change noted. Roll Call vote: Mike- aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Dave-aye.
FY21 Budget - Dave noted that Barb will speak with Heather to go over the budget, to see if Heather has any
changes. If she does, Dave asked Barb to send them out to the Commission Business Manager Report -Barb
reported that the Governor extended the closures to 5/18. The Commission agreed that the next meeting will be 5/12
@4pm. and will be via Zoom. Invoices- Woodward & Curran - $4,014.80 ($24k left on the contract) and Fitchburg
usage - $10,865.00 were approved. 1st Tuesday report-all logs are in except for 1 restaurant that is closed and
cannot access their logs. Grease Trap - I Forno restaurant is all set with transfer paperwork and Dave added they
are opening for take-out only.
Town Caucus - is scheduled for 5/13. Carl said it would probably get cancelled due to the closures set to 5/18.
Public Comment - Dave said he is proud to work with everyone and that the Commission has done a great job
putting together the RFP and the budget, in spite of this tough situation. He also commended Barb and Jack for their
work on the RFP and budget. Additionally, he expressed sympathy to John on the loss of home from fire and said he
could count on help if he needs it.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Generator Maintenance RFP
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:17pm
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Ane"
Kanly
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts-
Clean Scope of Stations RFP for 4/28/20 meeting draft 4/24
Draft FY21 Budget to SC for 4/28/20 discussion
Memorandum of Agreement v2 with counsel comments -1170 Mass Ave
