===PAGE 1===
 SEWER COMMISSION 
July 14, 2020  
5:00pm Remote Meeting via Zoom  
AGENDA   
 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access. 
      
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the 
virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the 
public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, 
G. L. c.30A,§ 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  This meeting will be recorded and will 
be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.   
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please used thelink below to join the public 
meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81935381976 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 
475-4499 and enter Webinar ID #: 819 3538 1976  If you have not registered with Zoom, you will be asked for 
your name and an email address.  NOTE: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked.  
Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may 
use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS   
 
RFP draft status - Station Operations & Maintenance-review and approval 
 
Irrigation meter fee – policy revision, annual fee status   
 
Leominster IMA billing changeover to flow meters –update 
 
Request for connection for multiple sites 358-384 Mass Ave –John Esposito 
 
Bright Farms and Sewer Allotment and Payment Agreement –status 
 
Grease Trap annual renewal – mailing, annual fees waived 
 
YTD FY20 Budget -status   
 
FY20 Encumbrances – review and approval 
 
Minutes 6/23 – review and approval 
    
Business Manager report – I/I 3rd Party Review, Maintenance Plan, Invoices, Grease Trap/Interceptor 
program, Meter import program, Communication  
 
Members Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings 
 
Public Comment  
 
Adjournment  
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES  
July 28, 2020 5pm Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice    
August 11, 2020 5pm Regular Meeting, Remote Participation until further notice 