===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
and YouTube. He thanked Jo McLaughlin and PACC TV for an excellent program. John R. said he may have a
conflict with discussing 1564 Mass Ave and will abstain.
Q4 billing- Barb noted that the Q3 billing was due 3/ 30 and Q4 billing which was just sent out is due 6/22. She
added that the special legislation passed that no late charges and interest would be levied on unpaid invoices with
due dates after 3/10 until 6/30. Bills need to be paid by 6/29 or interest and late fees will be levied going back to the
due date. Barb also reminded all that Irrigation meters must be upgraded to be read remotely by 9/1 in order to
continue receiving the credit. The Irrigation Fee of $50 needs to be paid by 6/4 in order to get a credit on the next
billing
Dave announced that the town caucus was cancelled, and the town election will be held on 6/20. He requested that
the Sewer Commission candidates be voted on as write-ins as follows: 1-year term- Dave M., 2-year term- John R.,
3-year terms - Brett R. and Mike Deveikis. Dave thanked Carl for his service and said that Mike Nault will be
reappointed when Carl leaves the Commission. Dave also thanked Mike D. for stepping up to serve on the
Commission and Carl asked Mike D. to introduce himself. Mike D. stated that he has lived in Lunenburg 2 years,
been an electrician for 20 years and has 10 years of experience running a Maintenance department. He lives in the
Sewer Service Area but is not connected.
APPOINTMENTS-
Arthur & Kelly Feehan, 1564 Mass Ave.-Extension request - Kelly asked if everyone had received her email
explaining the history on the house's septic and all acknowledged that they had. She went on to say that they have
lived in Lunenburg since 1994 and replaced their septic system in 2002 when it was only 13 years old. Now they've
been informed that they need to replace the septic (after 18 years) but would like to see if they can connect to sewer.
The Commission discussed the history of the Meadowwoods connection and if residents, such as the Feehans are
able to connect to that line. Carl questioned if they could connect to a high-pressure line and also noted that the
property is not in the SSA, so they would need to go to Town Meeting to get added to the SSA. In addition, the
Feehan's would need to prove that the property cannot perc, and it is not possible to put in a septic system. Carl
suggested that it might be possible to connect to a low-pressure line that ends at Arbor St. if they had no other
obstacles. Rob Bowen said he had not done independent checking, but believed that the Meadowwoods grant came
with a restriction, which may not still be an issue if there is a sunset clause. He said they may pursue an extension at
the Fall Town Meeting. Carl said the homeowner can request a private extension and suggested asking their
neighbors if they want to tie in. Barb suggested that they talk with Jack R. (DW) about connecting to the lines. Rob
asked Barb to email the private extension checklist and Barb agreed to send Rob several documents and noted that
the Commission was not involved in the arrangements with the Park and that the Selectmen's office may have more
information regarding the grant. Dave added they may need to hire an engineer. Carl noted that if they can put a
septic system in, they will not qualify for the SSA and there may be other systems that could work.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
1170 Mass Ave Betterment Document & Abatement - Barb has not received the document from Michael Ray, but
Town Counsel said they could vote to approve. Also the Commission could vote to have the Chair sign and have it
notarized. The Commission discussed the vote and agreed to wait for the final document before voting.
SWSS contract termination- Barb reported that Town Counsel sent out the notice of default and she received a list
of invoices due from SWSS, which she forwarded to Counsel.
===PAGE 2===
'proposal' from the meter import discussion.
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the 5/12/20 minutes with said changes from Carl L.
Roll Call Vote: John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye, Carl L.-aye, Mike N.-aye & Dave M.-aye
Second: Carl L.
Business Manager Report - Irrigation Meter fees- Barb noted that she has received 21 payments, which is 39% of
participants. RFP/quotes for stations/generators- Barb said that now billing is complete, she will work with Jack
(DPW) and Counsel on the stations RFP. Regarding Generator Maintenance, Jack will be getting quotes after the
new station maintenance vendor is selected, so they will have input on the submittals. Invoices for review-
Fitchburg usage- $13,791.21 (for 3/26-4/25/20) and Leominster usage-$58,267.90 (dated 5/15/20 for January-April
2020) I/l 3rd party review- Barb received confirmation that Woodward & Curran will join the 6/9 meeting and Heather
had confirmed that the meeting should be held remotely. The Commission agreed to a remote meeting at 5pm. Carl
returned to the subject of the RFP's, suggesting that they make certain companies aware of the RFP. Dave added
that it will go out to multiple distribution outlets and he will talk to the Town Manager about this.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- for 6/9 - I/l 3rd party review meeting with Woodward & Curran,
Review changes and finish the RFP. Future - Dave and Mike N. meeting with Leominster mayor
Public Comment- Dave thanked the Commissioners for working hard for their customers and he is looking forward
to making the business stronger through expansion, dedication and customer service. He hoped all are safe, taking
care of selves and neighbors.
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn: 6:00pm
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye, Carl L.-aye, Mike N.-aye & Dave M.-aye
Parley
Handout:
K. Feehan email of 5/11/20 regarding Septic history at 1564 Mass Ave.
