===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PUBLIC COMMENT-Jack said he had scheduled jetting of the lines, that had been put off from the last fiscal year.
The jetting was done 2 weeks ago, and the vendor found wipes raising havoc at the Dana St. station. The stations
were scheduled for cleaning in October, but they are going to do it now to prevent problems. The jetting was
successful at the Town Hall, Police Station, the top of Sunnyhill Rd. and on Summer Street. The line from the Police
Station to first pump station was loaded and they jetted it out. When proceeding from that station to Chestnut Street,
they noticed a lot of sand coming in and suggested cameraing that line, as there may be a leak or a shear. Jack
added that when looking for I/l, he suggested getting on a more extensive jetting program and cameraing to find
problems in the lines. Also he noted the shoddy work with the installation of manhole covers on 2A. They found a pile
of asphalt/cement in the holes which the jetting company cleaned out. Jack said that they will be repairing the covers.
Dave thanked Jack, in response to his notice of retirement, for his service to the Commission and the Town. Jack
thanked Dave and said it could be a couple of months before he retires. Brett and John also thanked Jack for all he
has done
CURRENT BUSINESS -
I/l 3rd Party Contract and Draft Report Review and Meter Import Project- Barb noted that the draft report was
sent to the Commission, along with Carl's input on the draft. She noted that originally the business tool was part of
the scope, but that she was hesitant to send Woodward & Curran (W&C) the current billing file as it will soon be
obsolete. The plan to import the meter readings will change the billing process and the meter ID updates will take
some time to complete. The question is whether the Commission wants to hold up the W&C project until the meter
import is complete. The Commission discussed the meter import project and Dave said that they should not rush it.
Barb noted that she will want to test the import through the software's training function. Brett suggested contacting
other towns that are using the Northern Data system for feedback and Barb replied that she could do that. She also
noted that they picked the Northern Data System because the Water Dept uses it. The Commission agreed that they
need to proceed with the meter import and get it operational, before adding it to the contract. Barb estimated that
changing over the meter ID's would take up to 150 hours to do at 10 minutes/meter. The Town Manager okayed
having Jane work up to 19 hrs/week, to help Barb with the project. Dave asked Barb to give the Commission and
Town Manager a schedule for completing the project. Dave also suggested that Barb contact W&C to let them know
what was discussed and ask them what they can offer. Barb suggested having the draft review at the 8/25 meeting
and final report due 9/11. Dave asked the Commissioners to quickly review Carl's concerns that Barb sent to them at
the start of the meeting. John said that Carl's notes brought up valid points and Dave suggested sending Carl's
questions/notes to W&C. John noted that they previously talked to W&C regarding upgrading all the stations with
SCADA systems, but the cost for upgrading the stations was very expensive. Jack pointed out that the Commission
discussed SCADA for 4 years, grease trap regulations for 7 years and I/l for 15 years. There is a SCADA system at
the Leominster Rd. station, but all agreed that adding SCADA to more stations would be cost prohibitive. Brett
inquired about the study in 2011, when flow meters were installed. Jack noted that temporary meters were installed
to identify I/l in portions of the town. There are still 3 meters in place at the Leominster town line, Fitchburg line on
Summer St and Fitchburg line on Mass Ave. to monitor quantity of flow each month. Barb added that Flow
Assessment comes out quarterly to calibrate and maintain the meters. Barb also said that Carl asked to put the Draft
Report on a separate meeting. Commission discussed the timing of the meeting to discuss the report. Dave stated
that he is unavailable next week.
===PAGE 2===
sent them to the Commissioners. Ine main contract or sy, you needs commission approval to sign off on it.
Commission discussed having a Commissioner go to see how they do the quarterly flow meter inspections and Barb
will email Brett and Mike when the next assessment is scheduled. Barb noted the second contract is for equipment
lease. There is a lot of the equipment in the meter pits that will be obsolete by end of year that will need
replacement. Flow Assessment had provided 3 options. These upgrades were included in the FY21 Budget. The
agreement is for $5,400 to cover the leasing for the year. Jack noted that no item is more important than the meters.
They might be able to purchase for a less but by renting the meters, Flow Assessment will stock and maintain them.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the Flow Assessment monitoring contract and the equipment leasing contract.
Vote: Brett-aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
RFP Status-Pump Station Operations & Maintenance- Barb reported they had 6 responses and the Pre-Bid
conference will be 8/12 @ 1pm via zoom. Dave explained the Pre-Bid conference procedure, noting that they will
take notes, record questions and send responses to all bidders. Barb, Jack and Brett will be on the call. The bids will
be due on 8/21.
Bright Farms- Barb communicated with them on fees and they will be on the agenda of 8/25 to discuss the project.
Grease Trap program - Barb reported that the annual renewal letters went out and the renewals are due 8/15. She
has received 7 back out of 19 and also one thank you for waiving the fees. She does not have the 1st Tuesday report
YD FY 20 Budget -Barb sent the Commission the final year-to-date budget and all FY20 bills have been paid.
Minutes of 7/28 -
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John R.
To accept the minutes of 7/28/20.
Vote: Brett-aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Discussion- Dave talked to Heather (Town Manager) about the legal policy and they have put together a
new policy. Barb will send it out to the Commission for discussion at a future meeting.
Business Manager Report -Irrigation policy update and public hearing schedule-Barb reported that the notice
went into the Ledger and the two public hearings will be the 8/25 and 9/8 meetings. The changes are the policy
name, fees and repercussions for non-payment. She will have some extra small changes on 8/25. Invoices-none.
Communication- Barb had updated the website with the RFP, Mike Deveikis joining Commission, election of
officers, and the proposed Deduct Meter Policy. Also the posted agendas and minutes have been sent to the
department heads. Starting 8/10, the town buildings are open 10am-2pm, by appointment and masks are required.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Brett asked to add discussion of Jack's suggestions for cameraing
lines and repairing manhole covers.
Public Comment-John asked Jack if the wipes are getting down into the flow meters. Jack replied that they either
clog the system or get chopped up, but they can ask Flow Assessment when they service the meters. Dave
suggested Jack calculate the cost due to the clogs and ask Heather if they can get reimbursement from the Safe Act.
Dave also asked if jetting is part of the maintenance plan. Jack replied it is, but he was not sure how often and noted
that the jetting helps greatly. Jack added that they are still reviewing the maintenance plan and Dave said they will be
looking at the maintenance plan in the next quarter.
===PAGE 3===
Respectively submitted,
four h. Sewery
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Carl Luck's 3rd party input email and Compliance concerns with contract's scope of services.
Flow Assessment contracts for Flow Monitoring and Equipment Lease
