===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MIVVUVVIVIIIIV
that in 20 years, there has been no documented Maintenance Plan in place. The goal of the plan is to improve the
inspection and preventative maintenance of the system, and thereby the reliability of the system, as well as the costs
to the customers. The Maintenance Plan was started in 2019 with the contract to Wright Pierce, who developed the
Comprehensive Waste Management Plan. It was reviewed in December 2019, updated in January and changes
were made by the DPW Director & Wright Pierce in February. These changes have not been discussed in an open
meeting. The Covid Pandemic hit, and the discussion was put on the back burner. Carl added that he would like input
from the current DPW Director and that they will use this discussion to further review the Plan with the new DPW
Director. Carl proposed postponing the discussion to the next meeting, to have input from the DPW Director and
other Commissioners not present.
Dave sent his condolences to the Bowen Family, for the loss of Don Bowen, former chair and long-time member of
the ZBA.
APPOINTMENTS -
Pam Munyon and John Esposito (Contractor) - Sewer Extension to 384 Mass Ave- Pam stated that they have a
system that is failing and have no room on the property to put in a new system. She added that when Walmart came
in, her husband's uncle (Caswell) paid to have 2 stubs put in but have found out they have none. They are asking for
relief from the failing system. Barb responded with Jack's (DPW) concern of adding 1 connection at a time, and then
what about the next one, etc. She added that it could be done by going up the right of way. Carl asked if it is in the
Sewer Service Area (SSA) and if it involves an extension? Barb replied it would require a stub, adding that when
Walmart went in, any interested abutters could pay a nominal fee (not a betterment), but she does not have a record
of payment. It would involve an extension because there is no line or manhole in front of the house, but it is in the
SSA. John Esposito said that there is a stub in front of Robert Jr's house next door(#362), and he wants to connect
at the state line where the lateral ends and hook into the line to go to Robert Sr.'s house. John has discussed his
plans with Jack (DPW) and the only problem is running up the side of the road a bit. He added that Walmart only
went so far up the street because they ran into ledge. He noted that Jack confirmed the Caswell's paid for 2 stubs
and it will be a gravity fed line. He also added that all the properties are owned by Chris Munyon. The Commission
discussed the drawings/as-builts and Barb noted she needs one for 362 Mass Ave. Carl said that it sounds like they
are creating a branch that they will need to maintain. John E. noted there is a manhole at 362 Mass Ave, with a stub
and the Bright Farms project will connect to a stub on the north side of 2A. The Commission discussed where the line
would go in and how other houses would be affected. John E. added that the ledge under the street would make it
very expensive for a homeowner to pursue. He continued that Jack agreed the connection could be done running a
6" line up about 50' and the only question is whether to put it on the state right of way or Caswell's property. Dave
said they need to see a set of drawings before he starts, and John E. agreed to draw one based on what he
discussed with Jack. Barb noted that she will need to talk to Jack since the state may need to approve and also the
Munyons may have to pay a supplemental betterment if there is future extension to the line. John E. would like to do
the work before winter. Carl questioned giving a go ahead without seeing a plan. Dave said it would be ok as long as
Jack approves, and the state has no issues. John added that his concern is with the state right-of-way may create
additional problem. John will get the drawing up to Jack as soon as possible. Dave asked if that was okay with
everyone to let John proceed if Jack approves, and the Commission can get an update at the next meeting in 2
===PAGE 2===
with a failed septic but he is looking for a scope of work before he proceeds.
Roll Call Vote: John-yes, Brett-yes, Dave-yes and Carl-no.
John E. said he will bring the plan to Barb. Barb reminded that she also needs the as built and System abandonment
form for 362 Mass Ave. Carl added that they should have an agreement in regard to future connections through this
extension.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Maintenance Plan- review draft- Dave agreed they need a full commission to discuss the draft and suggested each
Commissioner get a printed copy to review. The Commission discussed the document versions and agreed to table
the review to the next meeting. Barb noted that the original version was much larger with a lot of history. Carl noted
his concern with the omission of one section in the original document regarding the pump stations. John added he
would like to review the base document, to see if something was legitimately left out. Barb said she will send the link
to the original Wright Pierce document, as well as the February document. She will also have hard copies available of
the latest version. Dave asked Barb to add the review to the next agenda.
Bright Project -Barb reported that there were no updates from them regarding Fitchburg or attending a meeting and
that Jack has been working with the engineers. She added that Graves Engineering has received the updated sewer
plans and will be reviewing this week so she will have an update for the next meeting. Dave added that Bright Farms
will be meeting with the Planning Board.
/l 3ra Party Data Review - Carl said he reviewed the final report and that it is a good document. He added that it
gives some good near-term guidance to look for Infiltration. In regard to the excel sheet, he noted that it is hard to
confirm that the equations and links work until they have good data on the pump stations, which could take several
quarters to obtain. Carl agreed to closing out the contract with some protection. Barb added that she received the
starting reading from Al (Empey) and she will match up data from the next billing. Barb added that she is getting
quarterly data currently since the new contract just started 9/26 and she will talk to Al about more frequent reports.
Carl suggested doing some sanity checks on the data, to verify there no issues or gaps. Dave suggested that we set
up reporting requirements with Empey, so they know what the Commission expects.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: John R.
To accept Woodward & Curran's final I/l 3rd Party Data Review report.
Discussion: Dave thanked Carl for all his work with Woodward & Curran to get the project done.
Roll Call Vote: Carl-yes, John-yes, Brett-yes, and Dave-yes
Barb confirmed that she'd received the final bill. Barb had sent the Commissioners a draft of the letter to Woodard
and Curran where she proposed having Lauren and Dave (W&C) agree to supporting the billing tool for a period of
time and if they will agree, we can pay the final bill. The Commission agreed.
Retirement of DPW Director-Jack Rodriquenz will be retiring 10/30. Barb reported that Jack is working with Empey
to get a generator contractor on board and hopes to obtain the contractor used previously. She has talked to Jack
about jetting and using the Maintenance Plan, doing quadrants of the town on a regular basis and has escalated her
concerns about the void when Jack leaves. Dave added he talked to the Town Manager about filling that void as well.
Barb confirmed that Empey will be coming to the 10/27 meeting.
Minutes- 9/29-
Motion - Brett R.
Second- John R.
===PAGE 3===
meter ids and should be completed by end of month. Barb is waiting for the latest billing tile from water department
and will be running it parallel with the normal file for the Q2 billing. O&M Contractor-Empey will attend on 10/27.
Invoices- no Fitchburg invoice yet and Barb will be paying Woodward & Curran's final bill when she receives their
signoff. Grease Trap status- Barb has 4 accounts to contact regarding their annual permit renewal. 1st Tuesday -
all logs are in except for 1 which she had contacted. If she has no response, she will start the $50 non-compliance
letter process. Communications- Barb reported that she continues to send the minutes and agendas to the
department heads. Dave asked Barb to forward the Planning Board agendas to all Commissioners.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- By-law discussion, Maintenance Plan review
Public Comment-Brett commented that in a previous meeting they told the Feehans, who had a failed septic
system, that they needed to prove they could not put in a new septic in order to join the sewer system. He noted that
it is not written that way in the By-laws. He asked if they could follow up with them and Barb noted that she had
talked to Kelly a couple weeks ago and they are moving forward to put in a septic system. Brett suggested that the
Commission review the bylaws at a future meeting to make sure we are on the same page, for others who have a
similar problem. Carl agreed that it is not part of the regulations, that it is part of process, and it does mention when
that it is the Commission's mission to help people when conventional or innovative systems are not available.
Environmentally, septic systems are better than sewer since sewer sends water out of town. Also, this situation called
for expansion of the Sewer Service area. He agreed that the Commission should look at this to make sure we're on
the same page. Barb read from page 14 of the Sewer Use Regulations, under Sewer Commission Development
Policy, regarding alternate solutions. Brett noted that the section he was reterring to was in the Sewer Districting
bylaw, under purposes for connection. He said he would email Barb the section he referred to, and the Commission
requested that Barb forward it to all Commissioners. Barb reminded the Commission that they are not in the SSA and
it is a force main issue. The Commission discussed the details of the Feehan's situation, being on the section of the
force main owned by the State, and whether they could even tie in. Brett would like the bylaw reviewed for future
requests.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Dave reported the Lobsters for Lunenburg fund raiser has sold out on lobsters but there are
raffle tickets still available, with all proceeds going to 1st responders. He thanked the Lake Shirley for access to their
Paypal account and provided the contact information.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 27, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
November 10, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
To adjourn: 6:48pm
Second: Carl L.
Roll Call Vote: Carl-yes, John-yes, Brett-yes, and Dave-yes
Respectively Submitted,
R. Conle
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
