===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
REap daton peratons maintenance da devw dr dr dek reported that ne checked
references on the bid candidates, asking about response time, communications and strong/weak points. Jack added
that Empey and Watermark were very close on the base rate. However, when he compared the hourly rates,
Watermark's hourly rates were significantly lower than Empey's. Jack noted that red flags go off with bids that vary
that greatly. He checked the 7 references for Watermark, but was only able to speak to 4 of them. The only reference
for work similar to Lunenburg's was the town of Dracut, where Watermark has worked for 2 months so far, and they
did not want to make a recommendation based on that short of a time. When he talked to the references, it was clear
that they do a lot of water monitoring, well monitoring and environmental services. They also work at superfund sites
to remediate, test, treat and monitor water/wells, in addition to government contracts. Jack noted that they use lots of
sub-contractors, and the hourly rate for repair work would vary depending on the subcontractor. If there was a
planned repair, they would get 3 bids for the job. Since Watermark's business focus is Environmental services and
they have only 2 months experience with sewer stations, Jack recommended going with Empey because we know
their work. Dave thanked Heather, Jack and Barb for their work on the bidding process. Mike noted that he
understands why there was such a big difference in prices and he would go with Empey. Carl asked if Jack did a
reference check on Empey. Jack replied that he and Barb spoke to Al Packard (Empey) and he also considered
Barb's positive interaction with Empey's office/billing. He added that since they are doing such a good job now, he did
not check additional references. Carl noted that they cannot guarantee how long Al would be staying at Empey and
they do not know much about the company. Carl said it was good point on the not knowing the rates for
subcontractors. Jack noted that Empey does a lot in-house, where Watermark would need to outsource. Empey does
the minor generator service routinely but Watermark would need to outsource minor and major generator work. Carl
asked if they are now paying Empey about $110/hr. and Jack replied he thinks so but would need to confirm with
Barb. On the bid, the hourly rate was $158/hour and Carl questioned what the true cost would be at the end of the
year. He also questioned Empey planning on only 10 hours/week, where Watermark planned for 20 hours/week. This
would give Watermark more wiggle room in their base rate for absorbing some surprises. Jack noted that jetting and
cleaning the wet wells would be extra, regardless of who the operator is. Carl would favor Watermark due to the
larger work force and since they work with government contracts, they might have more training. He added that it
could be a problem relying on one man and that he does not think this is Empey's primary business focus. His
recommendation would be Watermark but would save his final recommendation until others have spoken. John noted
it was a bit of concern that Watermark only has 2 months reference with Dracut. Jack added that they have been
working with Empey for about 5 months. He has met the others at Empey, who have also worked on stations besides
Al. John pointed out that it is difficult decision since they have only 2 bidders. Jack added that it is only a 1-year
contract and agreed that it is a difficult decision. Brett noted that the monthly costs are close and since Watermark is
breaking into new territory, he would be a little nervous going with a company that has no track record for this work.
Since their bid was low, they may come back with a higher price later. He added that small companies have people
used to working together and know how to back up each other, however they do not have a large number of people
for back up. He would go with Empey since they all know the Lunenburg system. Dave asked if the rates on the bid
were negotiable and Jack replied he believes they are not. Dave added that Small Water was small at the beginning
and did well, but they grew and lost control. The Commission discussed Small Water's yearly costs and the cost of
emergency repairs. Carl added that Small Water's issues were caused by losing Al, rather than growing larger. Dave
asked Jack to give a reference for Empey. Jack replied that Empey came into a difficult situation and they righted the
===PAGE 2===
Amended Motion: Carl L.
oecona. brell n.
To accept Empey for O&M contract for 1 year to 6/30/21 or whatever is recommended by the procurement
manager.
Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-no, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Public Comment- Dave Rogers (82 Highland St) asked if this was a regular meeting or a hearing and Dave M.
replied it was a regular meeting. Dave Rogers said he watches the contract like a hawk, and you would not want to
put all your eggs in one basket. He suggested comparing the expenses from Small Water for the last 2 years to the
cost of Empey's proposal. Also he would say more if it was a hearing. Several members lost connection on the zoom
meeting and the quorum was lost. Carl noted that he had a public comment that he would have shared at the
beginning of the meeting.
Since there was no longer a quorum, there was no vote to adjourn. The meeting ended at 6:12pm.
Respectively submitted,
Jane 2. faulay
Minutes Clerk
