===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Carl welcomed Rob Oliva to Lunenburg. He also noted that he will be emailing his comments
regarding the Maintenance Plan, along with his questions for the new DPW Director, to the Commissioners and
wanted that noted in the minutes. Dave thanked all who participated in the toy collection/parade for the Salvation
Army and all who made it a great event.
APPOINTMENTS -
Sean O'Neil, Bright Farms and Jeff Walsh, Graves Engineering- Bright Farms Project discussion- Barb stated
that Sean and Jeff were present to answer questions on project. Sean said first, they have questions about the
physical connection issues and want to make sure the Sewer Commission is happy with the site plan. Secondly, they
need to know how they connect to system and manage the right-of-way. He also asked Steve Powell (the landowner)
and Brian Marchetti (the civil engineer) to attend the meeting, to explain the other project that is separate but related
to the Bright Farms project. Also attending are Chi Mann and Nick Long - civil engineers for Bright Farms. Jeff
Walsh added that he is reviewing the plans for the planning board and reported that they have some minor
comments to still be addressed. He noted that they need to connect and bring forward the existing stub, and some
comments on the invert elevations on the site. Dave asked Rob Oliva if there were any concerns about the laterals.
Rob replied that the connection is straight forward, but he would like to hear more about the possible connections to
other parcels of the property. Sean replied that they need to get approval from the Commission in order to get
Planning Board approval. Carl asked if they could confirm that the line does not have any easements or right-a-ways.
Sean replied that there are currently no easements on the site, but there may be some easements with Steve &
Brian's project. Rob noted that he verified the presence of the lateral and added that the Department of
Transportation(DOT) application comes from the town for any work in the right a way. Dave noted that the town
would pull the line up to the property line. Carl asked for confirmation that the line will be 100% on the property and
Jeff clarified that the line is coming from Mass Ave to the Bright Farms building. Carl asked who pays for the lateral.
John said that if the line does not go to the property line, the town should pay for it and move forward on the
permitting from the state. Rob said he needs a submittal from Bright Farms to submit the application to the DOT. He
added that Bright Farms' contractor could do the work to bring it to property line. Barb noted that they do not need to
go to the state until they have an application for a permit to connect. Dave asked for a motion to approve bringing
the line to the property.
Motion: Mike D.
Second: John R.
To bring the pipe connection for Bright Farms to the property line and to use the Bright Farms contractor to
make that connection.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Brett-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
Rob noted that Bright Farms will supplement their water with rainwater and suggested metering their sewer affluent.
Sean replied that the issue with metering water is 90% of the water goes into the plants and the rainwater may
confuse the issue. They will be recycling the water used for cleaning the equipment every day. The water used
weekly to backwash the filtration systems will be released to the sewer system. Jeff said he supports metering the
affluent leaving the facility, using 1 meter that can be accessed easily. Sean added that they will choose a meter and
obtain approval from the Commission. Mike and Brett agreed with a single meter. Carl agreed with 1 meter but noted
that outflow meters are not always accurate. They may want to do a peer review on the meter and discuss a
===PAGE 2===
come in with a subdivision road to the Bright Farms property. The roadway would have frontage for commercial users
but there is no set plan. They just want to make sure the sewer line could be connected to the commercial
subdivision in the future. Rob said they would need to make sure the sewer is a main and not a sewer service,
making sure it works as part of the subdivision. Brian added that they want to think ahead to maximize the property,
but do not want to get in the way of Bright Farms. Brian said he will bring a Rob a plan to review. Dave said Bright
Farms is a priority, but it would be good to have only 1 cut. Jeff said it is a 10" lateral, and 8" after the manhole and
would serve a large area of residential. Steve noted he is working with Mass Ave. Motors, regarding tying in and
moving their entrance to the subdivision road. Rob said he likes the idea but would need to see plans.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Rob Oliva, DPW Director effective 11/9/20 - Rob introduced himself to the Commissioners and gave a short
summary of his experience as a civil engineer, working with Planning Boards, sewer departments and roadwork.
Dave encouraged the Commissioners to go to the DPW to meet Rob. Carl asked Rob about his experience in
Gardner. Rob replied he was assistant director, managing the water and sewer departments. He was responsible for
the day to day maintenance and operation of the collection system. John said he is looking forward to his comments
on the maintenance plan. Rob replied that he will be looking at the plan and talking to the pump station contractors.
Brett commented that it is good to hear his experience with sewer systems and he is looking forward to working with
him.
Discussion on Letter to Woodard & Curran re: Billing Tool and Final Invoice - Dave said he assumed they
voted to pay the invoice. Barb noted that she talked to Scott (Woodard & Curran), who said they will be available for
support when needed. Dave asked for a vote to pay the invoice.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To pay the final Woodard & Curran invoice for 1 & I 3rd party review.
Discussion: Carl asked if the support would cover the algorithm. Dave replied Scott assured it will.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Barb said she will pay that bill.
Maintenance Plan - Final report overview. Dave suggested putting it on a future agenda so Rob can review it. All
agreed and will add it to the agenda of the meeting after the next one.
Sewer Privilege Fee Assessment - 57 & 63 Cross Road - Barb reported that both properties have connected to
the main and they can now assess the privilege fees of $13,997.47 each.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To assess the privilege fees for 57 & 63 Cross Road.
Discussion: Carl asked for the amount of the privilege fee and suggested adding it to the motion. John withdrew the
first motion and revised it.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To assess the privilege fee for 57 & 63 Cross Road @ $13,997.47 each.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Minutes- 10/27/20
Motion: John R.
To approve the 10/27/20 Minutes.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
===PAGE 3===
To cancel the 11/24 meeting.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
December 29th meeting -Dave proposed cancelling the December 29th meeting as the Commission usually doesn't
meet the week between Christmas and New Years.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John R.
To cancel the 12/29 meeting.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report - Generator Maintenance- Barb reported that Al Packard is working with Weld, who
previously worked on the generators and she received a maintenance price of $4,825/year. Meanwhile, Al is taking
very good care of the generators. Dave asked how the Empey budget is going and Barb replied very well - there
have been no extra charges. The Commission discussed the previous costs from generator contractors. Rob added
he will look into the generator contract and options, prior to the next meeting. Invoices-none. Town Online map-
Barb noted that the town Gis maps have been updated and the manhole IDs have been added to the map. FY21
Budget- Barb sent out the current year-to-date budget. She reported that as of the first week of November, revenues
were $334,167 and expenses were $304,000, which includes the annual transfer for indirect expenses. The
Commission discussed the outsourcing figures. Dave asked Rob about his budget experience and suggested that
Barb and Rob review the budget.
Grease Trap program compliance- Barb noted that all annual permits and 1st Tuesday reports have been received.
Communication - Barb has had no communication from other departments.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- Dave suggested Commissioners send any questions to Rob and
discuss answers at future meetings. Carl suggested setting objectives and prioritize projects. Rob said he is always
open to suggestions.
Public Comment- Dave wished all a happy Thanksgiving.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
November 17, 2020 @ 7pm Special Town Meeting, Lunenburg Middle-High School
November 24, 2020 - cancelled
December 8, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
December 29, 2020 - cancelled
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:42pm
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote - Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye
Respectively submitted,
Gone h.
• Kanley
Minutes Clerk
