===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
withdraw from the program. She added that 11 out of 40 users have replaced their meters.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave, as chair, thanked Barb, Jack and Heather for keeping the business running during
Covid-19 and all they have done for the town. John said he has a concern about spare parts and Dave suggested
adding it to a future agenda.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
SWSS (past contractor for Operations and Maintenance of the Sewer System) Dave reported that SWSS ended
their service last week. Jack added that they have another vendor on board, and it was a seamless transition. Carl
suggested watching that costs for the rest of the contract do not exceed the budgeted amount and he would be
interested in recovering any excess costs. Mike agreed it would good to recover extra costs. John said he would like
to recover money, but legal expenses could add up. Barb noted that counsel stated that the Sewer Commission can
recommend going into litigation but that it is up to the Board of Selectmen. Dave suggested any further discussion be
done in executive session. Discussion of Carl Luck email of February 26 regarding SWSS contract and
invoicing - Carl said he wanted to make the email a public document so there would be no violation. No further
discussion was needed.
New 0&M Contractor-Chad T. Empey LLC - Jack introduced the new contractor and said that Al Packard is the
contact person. The contract has been completed and Al already made some repairs. He also went to all the stations
and made a plan for the future. He had a recommendation for the West St. station issue of rags and wipes collecting
in the impeller. Jack is happy to have Al back and has had daily contact with him. Carl had some concerns about the
contract and questioned why it was not discussed with the Commission. Barb said they estimated $25,000 that is the
remainder of the SWSS contract to cover services through the end of the fiscal year. Dave added that everything had
to be done quickly to get the new vendor on board. Mike, Brett, and John thanked Barb and Jack and are happy to
see Al back. Heather also thanked Barb & Jack for their work in getting the new vendor setup quickly. Carl asked for
clarification on the major repairs amount on the contract.
Draft RFP for Fy21 O&M contract - Dave said a draft was included in packet. He asked each member to read it
and send comments to Barb to incorporate into the RFP. Carl has gone through it and suggested having a meeting to
discuss it. Commission agreed to extra meeting on 4/23. Jack verified that it is a time and materials contract.
Commission discussed a contract rate vs the hourly rate. Mike said he would like to see the stations checked 5
days/week and go back to using a checklist. Heather said she would need the finalized scope asap. Dave asked
everyone to send comments to Barb by April 21s' and the Commission will discuss the contract via a video
conference call on the 23rd.
FY21 Budget discussion- Due to the present economy, Dave proposed a 10% increase to the budget across the
board and to take money from Retained Earnings if needed. Heather added that the Commission may need to adjust
revenue expectations. Barb noted that the biggest expense will be the pump station coverage and the Leominster
usage which is unknown. She also talked with Roger (Leominster) about the timing, but they do not have a date yet.
The increase will definitely be in FY21 and she is trying to keep him from adding the last quarter of FY20. Carl added
that a lot of work went into the budget and the $150k for O&M contract seems ok. The other unknown is the
Leominster figure, although he has a good estimate. He would not agree to increasing the budget by 10% and would
not want to take money for the deficit from retained earnings, which is there to cover major expenditures for the
system. Barb clarified that the budget has $150k for O&M, $12k for generators and $50k for infrastructure. The
balance in retained earnings is $1.9 million. Mike said he agrees with the 10% increase and that they will not know
===PAGE 2===
special Legislaton bar mole te Acto Address unallenges race by Municipalites and State Autortles
Resulting From COVID-19, signed into law by Governor Baker on April 3, 2020" to be accepted by the Selectmen
and explained that Section 11 impacted the Sewer demand bills, which waives late charges and interest for invoices
with due date after 3/10/20 until June 30. All the Commissioners supported it.
Q3 Quarterly billing Commitment -Barb asked for a vote to authorize her to send the commitment to the Town
Accountant and Treasurer. Since the members are remote, the Commission will sign the commitment at a future
meeting.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the Q3 Quarterly billing Commitment for $198,125.96.
Roll Call Vote: Carl-aye, Mike-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
YTD FY20 Budget - Barb reported they are doing fine at this point. Revenues are at $745k and Expenses are
$/14k. She also added that the Q4 billing will be done soon, which will add $200k in revenue and she does not
anticipate $200k in expenses. If Leominster does not start the meter-based billing and with Al Packard manning the
stations, they should be ok until end of year. Barb added that $25k was allotted for pump station maintenance. Jack
said he needs to talk to the new supplier, do an inventory of parts, and add in money for a couple emergency calls.
Articles for Town Meeting (new date 6/13/20) - 4 articles - Barb reported that they needed to add the 4 article
before the article deadline March 16 to allow the Commission to transfer money if needed at the end of the year. All 4
articles went into the warrant.
Town Election (new date 6/20/20) - The Commission has 4 openings on the ballot- Dave (1 year), John (2 year),
Brett (3 year) and Mike is willing to be reappointed. Carl has not confirmed a date to resign and will stay on at least
until the town election. Heather noted that the town caucus is scheduled for May 13. Mike added that he has no
intention to leave until the rate increase is finalized.
1170 Mass Ave Betterment Discussion and Memorandum- Barb just received the Memorandum (Covenant) from
counsel and will add it to the Thursday meeting.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To keep the decision for the betterment rollback for 1170 Mass Ave.
Discussion: Carl did not think a motion was necessary.
Roll Call Vote: Brett- aye, Mike-aye, Dave-aye, and Carl-nay
Carl then advised the Commission that he had another motion that he would like to put forward.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Brett R.
Based on Counsel's guidance, move to approve connection of 1170 Mass Ave to sewer, via its easement
access to Mass Ave. now or at a future date, by request of the owner.
Discussion: Carl detailed the history of the discussion and said he wants to remove the encumbrance so that the
property could cleanly connect via the easement if they want to in the future and not leave it in limbo. Dave said he
would need to review Counsel's input. Barb said that counsel had said the property would stay in the Sewer Service
Area but would be unable to connect. The Commission discussed the vote previously taken. Barb added that she
thinks counsel is not on board with allowing him to connect and had said that there is no grandfathering with the
Sewer bylaw, only ZBA. Dave suggested getting clarity from Counsel before voting. Carl will send the motion to Barb
to ask for an opinion from counsel. Chair tabled the motion.
===PAGE 3===
try and locate it.
Minutes for 3/10/20- will put on next agenda.
Business Manager Report - Invoices - Fitchburg - $15,472.73, Woodward & Curran - $6,423.68 (January) and
$5,620.72 (February), Wright Pierce-$166.00 and Mead Talerman-$262.25 were discussed and approved.
Maintenance Plan- Barb said that Wright Pierce is waiting for feedback from Heather. The discussion will be put on
next agenda. Dave asked Barb to send out copies of the first SWSS contract to the Commissioners.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- April 23rd meet at 4pm (special meeting to discuss the RFP), 1170
Mass Ave covenant and 3/10 minutes. Other items: Maintenance Plan, FY21 Budget
Public Comment- Dave said this has been a rough ride for Lunenburg, the country and the world. It is important to
be safe, take care of our families and he appreciated everyone meeting today.
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn: 5:16pm
Second: Carl L.
Vote: Unanimous
Respectively submited,
meL. Ranley
lanter
Handouts/Documents reviewed
Carl Luck email of 2/26/20 re. SWSS invoices
Adam Costa email of 4/7/20 re. 1170 Mass Ave.
Empey Interim Contract for O & M
