===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
online or drop off at the box at the DPW. Irrigation Meter policy implementation date has been moved to 9/1/20, to
allow users time to add radio reading capability to their meters. The Irrigation Meter program fees were due 6/4 and
she has received about 50% of them. Participants have to pay the program fee in order to get a credit on their August
invoice. Dave announced that Town Meeting will be 6/13 at the High School starting at 9am. Town Election will be
6/20. The Commission will be having a write-in campaign and will be discussed later in the meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Carl asked to clarity that payments need to be made by 6/29 or there will be interest and
penalties applied going back to due dates. Barb replied that interest will be calculated back to 3/23 for Q3 and to 6/23
for Q4. Brett noted that per an email from Heather (Town Manager) voters need to write in name and address on the
ballot. Dave clarified that voters just need to write the name and fill in the circle. Dave also thanked everyone who
turned out to support the Salvation Army on the donut days. He also thanked all the first responders, nurses, doctors
and businesses that have helped people during the crisis.
APPOINTMENTS -
Lauren Hertel, Kellie Messer, Scott Medeiros, Peter Jandrisevits and David Moering, Woodward & Curran
(W&C) - Inflow/Infiltration (//I) 3rd Party Review Interim Presentation -Kellie Messer shared a power point
presentation of the project and reviewed the project schedule. She described a table for the Meadowwoods pump
station, which was based on several weeks of data from Small Water (SWSS) and explained the calculations for the
estimated gallons pumped per week. W&C looked at the data from 2017 to 2020, but found they were missing over
160 weeks without any data from SWSS, so they looked at data on a quarterly basis instead. They put together a
schematic of all pump stations to show where they are located -upstream or downstream of certain pump stations
and found discrepancy issues with the Mass Ave 1 and Leominster pump stations. Kellie added that the discrepancy
Issues could be caused by ragging, impeller defects, leaky check valves, bursts of flow, wet well sizing, and maybe
an error in the draw down report. Next, she shared the chart for the Pump Station Data Analysis of Mass Ave 3.
which showed a significant gap between wastewater flows and water usage over a three-year period. They found that
the gaps were consistent across all pump stations and all 3 years (2017-2020), indicating that it was not an isolated
problem. For the Preliminary I/l trend analysis, they pulled NOAA rainfall data from 2017 and compared it to the
weekly pump station totals. Kellie shared graphs for the pump station flow vs rainfall and pointed out the spikes
coinciding with rain events. She noted that Mass Ave 1 and Dana St. had volumes so much higher than the rest of
the stations. Next, they looked at Twin City, Mass Ave #1 and #2, charting the pump station flows vs rainfall, to
indicate volume of I/l above the base flow. Dave Moering added that the charts were developed to look at trends and
not to measure the I/l. Kellie noted that the Weston & Sampson 2011 metering report recommended looking at Mass
Ave #1 for further evaluation. She added that the excel tool, developed for the Commission, cannot be fully vetted
without reliable data and will be modified after changing the billing format. Lauren said that they will take the trends,
compare them to past reports from other consultants and put that into a report. They will also put together
recommendations for data corrections. Carl asked for clarification on the Pump Station Data Review slide and noted
the data for pump 1 & 2 at same station (Meadowwoods) had significantly different rates. The Commission discussed
possible causes and Peter Jandrisevits suggested there may have been only 1 pump running and suggested the
pumps need to be inspected. He also added that the gallons/minute may be inaccurate. Carl summarized that they
need to recalibrate pump stations and get the most reliable data they can. Lauren estimated that the Final report was
scheduled for June and they are about 2 months behind. The group discussed rain events, floods and high-water
===PAGE 2===
another municipality and Scott M. said they will do that. Scott noted that getting better data would help but suggested
looking at investment in flow metering. Dave suggested getting a checklist from W&C that could be shared with the
new O & M vendor.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
RFP status - Station Operations & Maintenance - Barb had just received the RFP from Town Counsel and will
send it to Commissioners. Dave asked Jack and Barb to review it. Barb noted that Adam (Counsel) did not change
the substance but changed the format to clarify what is billable and what is covered under a flat fee. Dave said the
discussion will be on next agenda, for actions and Commissioners should send any changes to Barb. The
Commission discussed ensuring the RFP goes out to the largest number of companies and will submit suggestions
of companies to contact. The RFP will also go on the Central Register and they want to get it out as soon as
1170 Mass Ave Betterment document & abatement - Barb reported that the document is final, and that a vote is
needed to have either the full Commission sign and have it notarized individually or vote to authorize the chair to
sign.
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the document and authorize the Chairman to sign and have notarized the 1170 Mass Ave
Betterment document on behalf of the Commission.
Vote: Carl-aye, John-aye, Mike N-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: John R.
To approve the abatement on the 1170 Mass Ave property for $4,122.79.
Vote: John-aye, Mike N-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye and Carl abstained
Town Meeting - Sewer articles - Barb reported that the Commission has about $100,000 buffer in the remaining
FY20 budget and suggested passing over the 4th sewer article regarding FY20 and the Commission agreed. YTD
FY20 Budget - Barb noted that the $100,000 buffer is using committed revenue, while the Accountant's office goes
by collections, so per Munis billing system) the buffer between revenue & expense is less. As it gets closer to the
end of June, they will be closing the gap between collections and committed revenues but there is enough to cover
expenses for the fiscal year. Barb clarified Carl's question about the difference between FY20 approved budget and
FY20 actual. She added that she may have 1 more connection fee expense for Leominster. Investment income is
higher than expected in FY20, but it is based on the stock market. Carl asked about the amount transferred for legal
fees to the town. Barb confirmed that the $5k was transferred to the town and will verify how much has been spent so
tar. She responded to the question of how much was billed for pump station maintenance in April with the new
vendor, stating that it was around $6000.
Leominster IMA billing changeover to flow meters - Dave and Mike N. will be meeting with Leominster after the
Commission receives the final report from Woodward & Curran. Carl said they have the information already and it
could be dangerous to wait for the report. Barb said the next bill will be in FY21 and the bill should arrive in August.
Q4 Commitment - Barb requested that the Commission approve the Q4 Commitment for $206,382.29.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the Q4 Commitment for $206,382.29.
Vote: Carl-aye, John-aye, Mike-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye
===PAGE 3===
to consider it a withdrawal. Commission will add the discussion to the agenda for next meeting.
Town Election-Dave referenced the email regarding write-ins sent out to the Commission today and suggested
passing out the list of Commission candidates to friends and family. He has posted it on Facebook and talked to the
town clerk. Dave asked Carl if he still plans on resigning on election day and Carl replied that he wants to stay on
until at least the Woodward & Curran project is complete. Dave announced that this will now be Mike Nault's last
meeting then and thanked him for his service.
Public Comment-John emphasized the importance of having someone review the reports from pump stations since
they point out maintenance issues. Mike N. said he is always ready to come back if needed. Mike D. agreed about
the importance of the maintenance reports. Dave added that the Commission is on the right road and he thanked
Barb & Jack for their work. The next meeting will be June 30t and will be election of officers. Barb mentioned that
she will be on vacation and Dave asked Jack to help with the next meeting and asked Barb to have the agenda in
order before she leaves. Jack added that it is important to review Counsel's updated RFP so they can bring the new
vendors on board. He added, regarding the Woodard & Curran report, that they were not going to find I/l from this
report process, that we already know that when it rains, Lunenburg receives heavier flows. Dave thanked everyone
for their work.
Motion: John R.
To adjourn: 6:51pm
Second: Brett R.
Vote: John-aye, Mike-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye
Respectively submitted,
Jane t landry
Minutes Clerk
Visuals/Handouts:
Woodard & Curran - Power Point presentation on Third Party I/I Review
1170 Mass Ave Memorandum of Agreement document
FY20 YTD Budget
