===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
drinking water and hydraulics licenses and has been working on the pump stations for 8 plus years through the
previous contractor. Dave asked them how the sewer system is going and what their biggest challenge will be this
year. Al replied the stations were in a bit of rough shape at first, but after spending time going through them with
regular maintenance, they are working well now. He is also working with Barb on the generator maintenance
program. He stressed that if they take care of the little problems as they go along it will prevent callouts. Mike
suggested meeting again to discuss the maintenance program, as well as parts needed for repairs. Al noted that he
put together a parts list previously and the Commission has done a great job keeping the parts stocked. He will check
to see what needs to be replaced. John added that communication fell short with the former contractor and he would
like to focus on maintaining communication, especially when Jack (DPW)leaves. Al replied he will be communicating
with Barb until the new DPW director comes in. Carl asked if Al had seen the Maintenance Plan and he would like
Al's input before finalizing the Plan. Carl noted that Wright Pierce did a pump station study and asked Al if there are
items that could become obsolete. Al replied he had not seen the report yet, but he is concerned about equipment at
Dana St. and especially Mass Ave 1. Carl added that they are trying to find I/l and it is important to get good run-time
data from the pump stations. Al replied that he is working on issues with the equations in the programing but will have
data from 9/1 to 11/1 at the end of the month. Al added that Mass 2 and Mass 3 are constantly running, indicating I/l.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director, Retirement 10/30/20
Barb announced that this is their last meeting with Jack Rodriquenz and the DPW will miss him alot. She added that.
he has been a wonderful supervisor and she will miss him greatly. Jack noted the Town Manager has found a
replacement, who should be on the job within a few weeks. The Commissioners thanked Jack for all he has done in
the past 30 years, agreed he will be sorely missed and wished him the best.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Carl summarized the goal and the history of the Maintenance Plan. He noted that there has
not been a documented plan in place. The goal is to improve inspection and preventive maintenance of the system.
The plan started in 2019 with a contract to Wright Pierce (WP), who provided the 1st comprehensive draft in
November 2019. Jack met with WP to discuss and suggest changes in February 2020, but it was never discussed in
open meeting, until this meeting. He added that this will be the last time to have Jack's input and would like to
continue discussion with the new DPW director. Carl suggested that they do not finalize the plan until they get input
from the new DPW director.
Maintenance Plan - draft review and approval - Jack advised that the Commission could go back to discuss the
original draft, or take the draft as is, discussing it a piece at a time, as well as reviewing it with the new DPW Director.
He added that it is a living document that should be revised regularly, and they could plan to come up with a new
revision by June 30th. Barb noted that the document was worked on with Wright Pierce and they now have a working
document to present to the new director, to get their input. Dave added that it is a very good document and
suggested ratifying it at the meeting, so they can discuss it in future meetings or workshops. Mike agreed it is a
starting point, and they can work with Empey and the new Director to modify it. John also agreed it is a good starting
point but that they should make sure they do follow up and a formal review. Dave suggested discussing part of it at
each meeting. John also suggested one correction to remove reference to capital improvement in section 2.6.1 that
doesn't exist. Jack reminded the Commission there is no rush and they should take their time to get it right. Carl
agreed it deserves the time to go through section by section and it is better to give this plan to the new director, to
===PAGE 2===
rams engineer to submit be consola conta poo
Commission. Bright Farms met with the planning board on 10/26.
Minutes of 10/13/20 -
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike D.
To accept the minutes of 10/13/20. Roll call vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye, John-abstained
Business Manager Report - 384 Mass Ave Extension update- Barb reported that Jack met with John Esposito
and confirmed he will need to get approval from the State. They will probably require an engineered drawing, so it is
on hold currently. Carl suggested that they get a copy of the plan before approving the connection. Carl added that
their last vote is no longer valid because Jack will not be there to review the new drawing. Dave stated that if the
State approves of the plan, the Commission wouldn't need to approve it. The Commission discussed and Barb will
get a more detailed drawing when it goes to the state for approval. Generators- Barb reported that Al (Empey) is
working on setting up the generator maintenance. Invoices- Fitchburg Monthly Usage-$ 14,554.08 and Mead
Talerman- $252.91 (for 9/21-10/20) I/I 3rd party Billing Tool status. Barb sent out the billing tool agreement to
Woodard & Curran and had not yet heard back. 88 Mass Ave Change of Use- Barb reported the ZBA approved the
request to increase from 3 to 5 units. She added that if they go forward with the pizza restaurant and nail salon, they
will need to come to the Sewer Commission for a change of use approval. Commission discussed that they would
also require an external grease trap for a pizza restaurant. Grease Trap program annual renewals - Barb said she
had 4 establishments that were outstanding but 1 has been received. She is still working on the remaining 3 and sent
out certified letters, with the non-compliance fee. 1st Tuesday report - only 1 outstanding and rest are current.
Meter Import- Barb reported that Jane has finished the meter import project and thanked her. Barb will be working
on the quarterly billing soon and will run the usual billing parallel with meter import of the 800+ meters to test it out.
Hopefully, the next billing will be solely with the meter imports file.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings- Maintenance Plan
Public Comment-John commented that he does not want the Maintenance Plan review to fall through the cracks.
Dave reminded Commissioners that Barb has made copies of the Maintenance Plan. Carl noted that he put a lot of
effort into putting comments into the Maintenance Plan. He will send his marked up copy to Barb to be entered into
the record and distributed to the Commission. Dave thanked Carl for his work on the Maintenance Plan.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
November 10, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
November 17, 2020 @ 7pm - Special Town Meeting - at Lunenburg High School
November 24, 2020 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
To adjourn: 6:29pm
Second: Carl L.
Roll call vote: Brett-aye, John-aye, Carl-aye, Dave-aye.
