===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 9/14/21 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Deveikis and Mike
Nault, DPW Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Dave opened the meeting at 6:00 pm, with the Piedge of Allegiance and did a roll call of attendees.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave sadiy reported Peg Gorman of Hickory Hills passed away. She was a dear friend, a big
supporter of the Lion's Club and loved watching the Sewer Commission meetings. She will be greatly missed.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb noted the Town Manager sent out an email regarding signing up for automatic notifications
when any minutes and agendas are posted or updated. Also the Q1 bills are out and are due at the end of next week. If
anyone has not received their bill, they should call the office. Barb reported that major work had been done due to grease
buildup in the pipes and she reminded all customers not to dump grease down the drains or toilets. The 9/28 meeting will be
via Zoom as the Select Board will be using the Town Hall meeting room. Discussion followed on assessing a fine for
dumping grease down the drains and whether it would be enforced through the Sewer Regulations or through the Board of
Health.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Maintenance Report- DPW Director, Rob Oliva reported Clean Basins has augured the line on Mass Ave. which they
thought was a grease build-up, but the technician said it looked like joint compound. The line is now freed up and running
clean. CTE would like to replace the panel at the Mass 2 station and the cost will be about $5K- the same cost as the
Electric Ave. panel, so they will go ahead to do that. Rob received an estimate from CTE to replace the impeller, gasket &
seals on the Dana St. station pumps for a cost of $10,900. Since the cost is over $10K, he is asking for the go-ahead from
the Commission.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike D.
To approve the $10,900 for repairs to the Dana Street pump station.
Discussion: Rob noted they will be repairing both pumps and this will be the first time they have done minor rebulld since
installation in early 2000. Mike D. asked if they use a megohmmeter to test the motors and Rob replied he will talk to CTE
about it. Brett asked if there is a life expectancy for the bearings. Rob said he will ask AI (CTE) and check if this is part of the
Maintenance Plan. Dave suggested revisiting the Maintenance Plan every couple years. Mike D. asked about a spare motor
for Dana St. Mike N. added preventative maintenance is good and they should have spare parts on hand.
Roll Call vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
ARPA funds - Rob reported there has been no further discussion or updates.
Assistant to the Business Manager - Rob reported, in discussion with Heather (Town Manager), the assistant position
may need to be more than 19 hrs. and should offer benefits. He suggested changing the position to 24 hrs./week with
benefits to attract qualified candidates. They would need to move forward with an amendment to the budget at the Fall Town
Meeting. Barb explained that the estimated cost for the 7 months of FY22 would be $14,400 (salary) and $14,000 (benefits)
for a total of $28,400. They have budgeted $19,600 and would need to add approximately $8,640 to the budget. Mike N.
calculated the yearly cost would be about $49,000. The Commission discussed the costs and Rob added the goal is to hire
someone who can take over when Barb retires. In the future, they could adjust the assistant position back to 19 hours. Dave
suggested being flexible with the hours and the Commission agreed the hours should be fixed. Barb agreed with hiring an
assistant for 24 hours/week and noted that, because of different tasks throughout the fiscal year, it would be good to give
that person a full year to learn the job.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John R.
To approve the suggestion of Barb and Rob to hire an assistant for 24hrs/week with benefits.
Roll Call vote: Mike D. aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye. •
Special Town Meeting November 16, 2021- warrant articles- Barb read the placeholders for the warrant articles that are
due on 9/28 and had sent out the draft for the Commission review. These will still need to go to the Town Manager for
review. #1 article - to increase the current year (FY22) appropriations from Retained Earnings by $8,640, and further that
$14,000 be included from the general fund for indirect cost, to allow for addition of a benefited 24 hour/week position. Dave
wants the FinCom to be made aware of the changes to the budget. #2 article - To see if the Town will vote to transfer
$14,875.50 from available funds into the Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund. Barb noted that they only spent $ 5,121 in
FY21 on Capital of the $20,000 transferred from the Fund, and she proposes transferring the remaining $14,875.50 back
===PAGE 2===
into the Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund, so it is earmarked for Capital expenditures. Dave asked Rob for how much has
been spent on the Maintenance Plan and Rob replied that he will have that for the next meeting.
Motion: Mike D.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the articles for the Special Fall Town Meeting.
Roll Call vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Grease Trap annual permit renewals FY22- Barb reported the Annual Grease Trap Renewal requests went out August 1st.
She has received 14 back but has 4 still outstanding. Last year, they sent a letter to the late filers, with $50 invoice and
notice that $25/day fines can be assessed if the renewal is not received. Barb has emailed twice and called the owner
without email. The Commission discussed whether we should call the late filers or just send a letter. Dave gave the go
ahead to send the letters with the first phase of fines but added that it was still his preference to call the establishments first.
Q1 FY22 Commitment $250,422.07 - Barb asked for the Commission's verbal approval for the commitment, which is the
amount billed to sewer users.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the Q1 FY22 Commitment of $250,422.07.
Roll Call vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Minutes for 7/27 -
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To approve minutes of 7/27/21 meeting. Roll Call vote: Mike D.-aye, John R-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Minutes for 8/10/21-
To approve the minutes of 8/10/21 meeting. Roll Call vote: Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report - Pond/Kimball extension request-Barb reported the owner is passing on pursuing the
extension due to the betterments and connection fees involved. Also she has heard no updates regarding the Comments
on the proposed 40B development. Dave complemented Barb & Rob on the comments put together on behalf of Sewer.
Barb noted the 419 Whalom Rd. connection is moving forward because they were able to obtain permissions from the
abutters. They have submitted a permit and Rob has requested an engineered plan.
Barb has not heard any updates on the Fitchburg Ordinance, and she has made several updates to the Website.
Invoices- Fitchburg Usage- $17,714.24 (7/26-8/25), Leominster Usage- $ 117,729.89 (quarter) and Mead, Talerman -
$394.06 (for work on 419 Whalom Rd, DEP and Flow Assessment Contract). Dave asked about the rate increases for
Fitchburg and Barb replied they have budgeted for the increases already. Fitchburg's increases were stated in advance and
this year the rate went from 9.11 to 9.75 (7% increase). Leominster also had a 6% increase. Dave asked Barb to resend a
copy of the budget to Commissioners with the increases noted.
Public Comment - none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
September 28, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
October 12, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:55pm.
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
