===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
the sewer extension out on Hollis Rd. and Pond St. They will be coming forward with a plan showing the extension
coming from the lot, down Pond St., taking the turn on Kimball St. and all the way down to Prospect St. Whitman &
Bingham will finalize their plans and come back to the Sewer Commission. Citing the meeting discussion concerning
the need for sewer in that area due to failed septic systems, Rob reached out to Jim Garreffi (Nashoba Board of
Health) but has not heard back yet. In consideration of the town's needs and the property owner's need, Rob said
they will go down Kimball St. just to the main and leave stubs for the properties on the eastern side of Kimball. They
will not extend into the road, which was recently paved but will have accommodations for future hook ups. Rob
added Clean Basins will be coming on 7/15 to camera the lines just jetted on Mass. Ave. He is still waiting for a date
from Green Mountain Pipeline for the l/l work on Elizabeth St. The Commission discussed the Hollis Road sewer
extension and agreed with the plan to go down Kimball St. Dave asked Barb about sending letters to property owners
and Barb replied she can send them now they know what direction they will be going. Rob clarified the extension will
only go down Pond St. to the owner's connection before going down Kimball to Prospect. They will leave a manhole
with a stub for future service.
Howard Street 40B proposal - Barb reported the site visit was postponed to 7/28 at 1pm. Heather requested that a
representative from the Sewer Commission be present and there is no new deadline for the comment period. Dave
encouraged all Commissioners to attend and stated it is very important to stay on top of this proposal.
Bright Farms - Barb reported that this project has been withdrawn and Rob added that they had pulled out of the
land deal.
FY21 Encumbrances approval - Barb asked the Commission to approve the FY21 Encumbrances for a total of
$60,071.58. The Commission can vote to approve and sign in person later.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the FY21 Encumbrances for a total of $60,071.58.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye and Dave M.-aye.
FY21 YTD Budget review - Barb reviewed the FY21 budget and pointed out these figures: Expenses - $ 982,682,
Revenues - $1,182,519 and a Profit of about $200K, which will go into Retained Earnings in October/November,
when the Town closes out the year. Dave commended Barb on the budget and suggested looking at any changes
they would like for future budgets.
Minutes of 6/29 Meeting-
Motion: Mike D.
To accept the minutes of 6/29/21 meeting.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye and Dave M.-aye.
Second: John R.
FY21 EOY Commitment - $574.00 - Barb requested a vote to approve the Year-end commitment.
Motion: John R.
To accept the FY21 EOY Commitment of $574.00.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye and Dave M.-aye.
Second: Brett R.
===PAGE 2===
Commissioners know that the pump station's solar program is in place which came up at the last meeting. She
added that they started getting credits last fall and the credits have been very good the last few months. Once she
has 1 full year of information, they will know how much of an impact that there will be on their electric bill. Dave
added it should be about 15% credit. Dave also mentioned the recent heavy rain could have a big impact on the flow
meter readings. Barb said Flow Assessment will have data for July after the 26' but could be later. Rob pointed out
the groundwater should be down (Infiltration) but could be concerned about sump pumps connected(Inflow). He said
he could ask AI (CTE) if he has some data from the run times at the pump stations. CTE Bond- Barb-received a
bond from CTE (Chad Empey) which has a signature line. She consulted Town Counsel, who said the signature just
confirms that the bond is $ 41,053.02 and that the Chairman could sign it. Dave said he has never signed for a bond
and others agreed. Barb said that Counsel advised if it needs to be voted on, it should be on the agenda. Dave
suggested a vote and Barb will check with Town Counsel if it was done correctly.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To have the Chairman sign the bond for the CTE contract.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye and Dave M.-aye.
Barb noted counsel hours will be on 7/21, between 12 and 4pm and the Commissioners can sign up for a time slot
online. She has had no updates on the 419 Whalom Rd. connection or from Fitchburg on the updated Fitchburg
Chapter 147.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings/Counsel hours- Dave noted that he'd like to redo the budget and
make it an easier format and per the Maintenance Program, have Rob give updates once a month, and also to
discuss grants with Leominster re. Whalom district repairs.
Public Comment - Dave announced there will be a pancake breakfast @ Senior Center on 7/14.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
July 27,2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting (in person), Town Hall (Mike N. and Rob will not be attending)
August 10, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation via Zoom
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn: 6:43pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John R.-aye, Brett R.-aye and Dave M.-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Jane Ll. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts: Public Notice seeking By-Law Committee members read by Barb.
