===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 11/9/21 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Member- Mike Deveikis,
DPW Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Absent: Mike Nault
Dave opened the meeting at 6:17 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Dave reminded all the Special Fall Town Meeting will be November 16'h and it is very
important for everyone to attend to vote on what happens in our town. Barb also reminded anyone who has
outstanding amounts from the last fiscal year which ended June 30", they will be put on the tax bills very soon, so it
is important to pay them quickly.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Elizabeth Street Inflow/Infiltration Remediation -Rob reported Green Mountain Pipeline came in to address the
600' of sewer main identified in the Weston Sampson report. They filled joints with chemical grout to address I/l in 3
services. The operators reported the main in the street was not bad, but the services needed grout. Rob is waiting for
the report to determine how much grout was used. John asked if the amount of grout used determines the amount of
1/l (Inflow & Infiltration) and Rob replied the amount of grout would tell him how bad the services were. Green
Mountain questioned why he was looking at the main since not a lot of grout was needed. Rob told them the main
was identified in the Weston Sampson report and he was just following through. The older services needed more
grout, and the report will tell him more.
Upland/Eastern Ave/White Street extensions - Rob reported he put together an informal RFP for preliminary
design and cost estimating for Upland, Eastern Ave, White St., and Maple Parkway. He reached out to 4 firms:
Weston & Sampson, Wright Pierce, Woodard & Curran, and Tate & Howard. Rob received 3 proposals back, ranging
from Wright Pierce @ $13,200, Tate & Howard @ $19,800 to Weston & Sampson @ $42K. He is still waiting for a
price from Woodard & Curran and will forward them all to the Commission when he has received all. Rob added that
Wright Pierce seems anxious to work with the Commission. They are all good firms, but he would likely go ahead
with Wright Pierce when he receives the final proposal. The proposals all included soil explorations for ledge and 2
days' worth of about 20 soil probes. They will have a good idea of the cost for the project and the biggest factor will
be the ledge. Rob talked to all 4 firms, and noted that he was open to suggestions if they have done a similar project
differently. He was surprised with the high price from Weston & Sampson and assumed it was their way of saying
they were not interested. Dave asked Rob to send Barb the proposal request so she can send it to the
Commissioners and Rob replied he will send that along with the proposals he received back.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance-Barb has not received any updates back from Counsel. She just heard that Jeff
Murawski has left Fitchburg and our current contact will be Tony Maressa. Barb will be meeting with Counsel soon
and will press him for the complete review of what Jeff had sent out. Dave suggested asking the new person to come
to Lunenburg to meet with Barb and Rob. Dave added he still wants to meet with Leominster to discuss grants.
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds- Rob stated they are still waiting for an update from the state and how
the money will be divided amongst the town agencies. Barb noted Heather said they are waiting to see what the state
and Federal Government will be doing with the funding. The Federal Government is still debating the Infrastructure
bill and Heather would like a list of infrastructure projects from the Sewer Commission. Dave asked to add it to the
December agenda.
Minutes of 10/12 -
Motion: Mike D.
To approve the minutes for 10/12/21.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye, and John-aye.
Business Manager Report - Grease Program- Barb reported there is a new food establishment - Lunenburg
Diner. She has sent out the information packet to them, which is due back by 11/15. John asked if they have both an
===PAGE 2===
internal and external trap? Barb clarified they do and that the prior restaurant, Whalom Kitchen, was overdue on their
pump-out. She told Lunenburg Diner they need to do an external pump-out ASAP, or the landlord will need to show
the pump-out occurred but did not forward the report to her. Barb will have an update for the FY22 YTD Budget for
the next meeting and she noted they are doing as well as planned with the budget. Invoices- Fitchburg Usage for
$19,030.75. Barb noted this was one of the highest invoices, but the next invoice will be back down to $15K. The
Commission agreed with invoice. The Conflict-of-Interest Certificates for the Commissioners have all been
submitted to the town clerk's office.
Action Items- Dave asked for an update on the Pond View Commons 40B project and Rob replied the town
manager has had no updates. Barb stated she is working on billing, and they will be working on transfers for
delinquent amounts to the tax bills.
Public Comment - Dave invited all to the pancake breakfast at the Senior Center on 11/10 and wished all a safe,
happy Thanksgiving We also said he is proud of the job everyone did intestantanked rall
his work since starting in Lunenburg.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
November 16, 2021 @7pm- Special Town Meeting, LMHS Auditorium, 1079 Mass. Ave.
November 30, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 2nd Floor Meeting Room, 17 Main Street
December 14, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation via Zoom
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:42pm
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, John-aye, and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Minutes Clerk
