===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
public transportation. As of June 15', they will require a quorum of members to meet in person. Dave added the June
8th meeting will still be via Zoom. He also thanked all who came out to vote at the town elections and said he was
proud to be the chair last year, but had no problem giving it up if someone else is interested.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Election of Officers-
Motion: Brett R.
To elect Dave MacDonald as Chair.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike Nault
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, and Mike D.-aye.
Second: Mike Nault
To elect John Reynolds as Vice-Chair.
Discussion: John said he would accept but may not be at all meetings.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Motion: Mike Nault
Second: John Reynolds
To elect Brett Ramsden as Clerk.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye, Brett- aye and Dave-aye.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance-Barb reported that she'd received a reply from Town Counsel regarding changes
to the sewer regulations today. She also informed Mike Nault regarding the ordinance updates. Barb suggested the
Commission review counsel's comments, ask for any clarifications needed, and we could send it right to Fitchburg.
Dave asked Rob to review it and he thanked Brett and John for their work. Dave also asked Barb to email Fitchburg
Sewer Commission with an update. John pointed out the biggest updates were written for Fitchburg
Policy change discussion - Barb suggested looking at several policies to update while doing the public hearing
process for approving updates to the Regulations.
-- Sewer pro-rations with a change of ownership - Barb noted a new property owner is billed for the portion of
the quarter they own the property. In 2010, the Commission decided there would be no pro-rating and all new owners
are billed the minimum charge of $107 at the minimum for the quarter when they took ownership. A couple new
owners have come forward in the past to say that it was not fair, so this would be an opportunity to make changes to
the policy. John asked to clarify if someone closes on week 10 of the quarter and paid the minimum, would the new
buyer, in week 11, need to pay for the whole quarter? Dave answered correct. John replied that it did not seem fair,
and Rob agreed. Barb recommended prorating monthly, instead of weekly or daily. The Commission discussed the
policy and agreed to monthly prorating. Barb will work on the proposed policy for the Commission's review.
-Well policy - Barb noted the current flat rate for well owners is $231.87/quarter 1833cf). She added Lunenburg's
rate is lower than Fitchburg and Tyngsboro. Rob suggested installing a 2nd meter on the well. There are currently 9
houses on wells with sewer connections. The Commission discussed the hardship case of an elderly sewer
customer looking for relief. Dave suggested requiring a meter for the well or pay the flat rate. The Commission
continued to discuss the meter option and look at options for assistance with the cost. Barb noted the total cost to
install a meter would be about $1,000. Rob suggested talking to Fran at the Water District.
- Easements- Rob pointed out the current regulations do not allow a sewer service in an easement over someone
else's' property and they are doing a disservice to not allow them to connect via an easement if they have no other
option. John agreed that if a resident is willing to grant an easement, he would like to allow it. Brett and Mike D.
===PAGE 2===
Dark anu now will tell l
-.-Expansion of sewer area (SSA)- Barb noted that requests for expansion come to the Commission, prior to the
Town Meeting vote. She suggested adding something like "by recommending expansion at Town Meeting, it has no
impact on future projects that may happen at that location" to the Regs. It would be just a recommendation for the
expansion, but the change of use or increased usage would be dealt with at a later date. Barb added if it was more
clearly spelled out in the regulations, it could avoid confusion. The Commission discussed the wording and agreed to
it would make it clearer. Dave added it would be good to make everything, including the budget, simpler.
-Barb noted that other changes were either previously approved or are just typos to correct. She added that the
Regulation changes need to go through 2 public hearings and an official vote to accept them. The changes for the
sewer easement and SSA expansion wording would need to go to the Town Meeting, as they are in the By-Laws.
Howard Street 40B proposal- Barb reported she received a heads-up from Adam Burney (Planning Board) that a
developer will be coming forward with a proposed 40B project for Howard Street, which does not follow town board
rulings -just needs approval from the ZBA. The Commission could be forced to include it in the Sewer Service Area,
with sewer coming down Howard St. to Chase Rd. It would either go down Beal St. to connect to Leominster or down
Mass. Ave. to connect to Fitchburg. They would need to consider capacity and rates, along with approvals from
Fitchburg and Leominster. When the project is formally announced, the Commission will have 30 days to respond.
Brett asked if this project would entail running a new sewer main down Mass Ave? Rob replied yes - it would be a
large, expensive project with sewer and water for 200 units in the 40B development plus another 100 subdivision lots.
He has not seen plans yet but recommends the Commission require the developer hire a peer review consultant to
look at the capacity and technical aspects of what this development would do to the Lunenburg system, along with
any upgrades needed. He added the Commission should start thinking about it now as the process can move quickly
once the ZBA has it. Brett suggested requiring sewer go through the commercial district on Rt. 13 and require the
system be able to handle additional customers. Dave noted Meadowwoods was developed as a dedicated line and
others cannot connect along road. Rob added the developer still needs to get all the permits from the state and will
need to ask for waivers for anything they will not address on the local level. First the subsidizing agency would need
to look at the site before approving it to go forward. John suggested the Commission keep the project in their minds
as 40B project can take off quickly. Dave asked to add it to the agenda for discussion and Brett suggested bringing it
to Town Counsel to cover the Commission.
CTE O& M Contract - Barb reported that Chad TEmpey is coming up to year 2 of the contract and she sent out her
recommended changes. She added jetting coordination under hourly services as it is a billable service. She would
like to incorporate the Sanitary Service Overflows (SSO) and jetting to make the contract consistent with the
Maintenance Plan. Also Heather (Town Manager) was concerned at the time of the RFP which was the basis for the
Year 1 contract that the RFP reference what is asked for in the Maintenance Plan. After Year 3, it will be going out for
bid again and would be good to have it in the contract to use as a basis of the RFP. The Commission discussed
Barb's changes, and all agreed. The 2nd year of the contract begins on 7/1/21.
Elizabeth St. I/I (Inflow/Infiltration) - Rob reported he received 2 quotes - National Water Main Cleaning was
around $18K and Green Mountain quoted $6,500 for labor plus grout cost per gallon for under $10K. He will be going
ahead with Green Mountain, who said they can do the work fairly soon. The Commission discussed the work and
Rob said the cost will come out of I/l expense line. Barb added they will see if the contractor finds something at 33
Elizabeth St. before they proceed in contacting the resident, and the Commission agreed. Dave suggested sending a
===PAGE 3===
change. Dave said the next meeting, June 8, will start at 6pm
Brett modified his motion: To continue all further meetings to begin at 6pm.
Second: John R.
(Brett withdrew his previous motion.)
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye, and Dave-aye.
Minutes for May 11, 2021
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John R.
To approve the minutes for 5/11/21.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett- aye, Mike D.-aye, and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report - Barb noted Adam (Town Counsel) will attend the meeting on 6/8 and she will confirm
he can still attend now that it's at 6pm. Invoices -Fitchburg for $20,046.87 (3/26-4/25/21) and Leominster for
$116,591.55 (12/26/20-3/25/21), which are based on flow meter readings. John asked how the Leominster costs
compared to last year. Barb replied that at this same time, last year's costs were $309K and this year $362K, with 3
quarters of flow meter readings. Barb reported the FY21 Budget looks good, with Revenues up ($927, 133) and
Expenses within range ($909K). The FY21 Budget ends 6/30/21. Barb said she spoke to Town Counsel regarding
Paula Bertram's previous questions on 5 Chestnut and will send the response to Paula when she receives it from
Counsel. Also they received a request for a sewer extension at 410 Hollis Road which will be on the next agenda.
Barb added that the next Counsel hours will be in June, date to be determined.
Public Comment- Mike N. said it is good to be back again. Brett agreed it was good to have Mike N. back and
thanked Dave for re-upping for 3 years. Dave said he is looking forward to working with all and thanked Carl Luck for
his 15 years of service, hoping he is enjoying his retirement.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
June 8, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
June 29, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation - possibly at Town Hall. (Barb will not be at
the meeting.)
Motion: John R.
To adjourn: 6:35pm
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye, Brett- aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted
Just fore,
