===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
billing forms from the Tyler Forms, which is going obsolete, to ReadyForms. The new bills will look different and will
be used for possibly the August or the November billing.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Pledge of Allegiance at Sewer Meetings- John suggested the Sewer Commission say the Pledge of Allegiance
before starting the meetings. Dave and Brett agreed it was a good idea and Dave suggested starting it at the next
meeting. Brett suggested discussing it at the end of the meeting and voting.
Pond View Commons, LLC (Howard St. 40B) - Barb noted the site visit will be 7/28 at 1pm. There will also be a
40B strategies workshop on 8/3 at 7pm at the Middle/High School, led by Adam Costa (Town Counsel).
419 Whalom Rd - Barb stated this was the connection request for the Whalom property with no frontage. Adam
Burney (Planning Board), Adam Costa and Heather (Town Manager) are working on finding a way to make it work.
Brett asked to clarify if it was the property noted with the "paper road?" Barb agreed and said that she'd contacted the
Assessors and although the town's GIS system notes it as "Town of Lunenburg- owner unknown", the town does not
have control of it.
ARPA funds (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund) monies - Barb reported that the town had received the
first payment of $ 614,000 and Heather has met with department heads, to start discussing how to make the best use
of this money. Rob Oliva had suggested a pump station evaluation and upgrade. Heather is looking for proposals and
they will go before the Select Board. Dave asked to add this discussion to a future agenda. Barb added there is no
deadline yet and the proposals would be for investment in infrastructure.
Grease Trap Program Renewal Fees-Dave noted the fees were waived last year and it costs $5-6 per year to do
that. Barb stated they have 18 customers, and Compliance has been good, with grease logs usually filed on time.
Brett said he is leaning towards waiving the fees again since many restaurants are still trying to recover. There was
discussion whether non-compliant accounts could be charged and compliant accounts' fees would be waived. John
stated they need to be consistent and either they charge fees or not, but he would be inclined to waive them. Mike D.
agreed to waive fees again as restaurants are trying to get back on their feet. Dave would agree with waiving fees,
but restaurants must be compliant with logs and pumping. Barb also agreed with waiving fees and will note in the
letters that they need to stay compliant. Dave asked Barb to send a copy of the letter to Heather (Town Manager)
and Brett suggested taking a vote.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To approve waiving the Grease Trap permit renewal fees for FY22.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
Barb reported that the Schools' grease traps will be pumped out on August 2nd if anyone wants to be present. She
added that John Londa (Lunenburg Schools Director of Facilities) will be retiring in October. All the 1st Tuesday
reports for June have been received.
Minutes for 7/13/21-
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To approve the minutes for 7/13/21.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report - Barb reported they are still waiting to get on the vendor's schedule for the pipework on
Elizabeth St. and there is no update yet. She added they are still interviewing candidates for the Part-time position.
===PAGE 2===
for further action since Chad Empey and the insurance company had signed the bond. Barb has had no updates on
the Fitchburg Sewer Ordinance. When they respond, the Commission can look at updating the other policies and
review all during the 2 public hearings. Barb noted that she'd updated the website with election of officers, updated
forms and changes to meeting time/place. Dave mentioned that we should put something on the website to tell
residents in the Sewer Service Area that they can contact the Sewer Commission if they wish to hook up to Sewer.
Brett noted that he'd talked to the gentleman that owned P&S Truck on Chase Rd, who has some potential buyers for
the property and hinted that sewer access would be good. Dave added that the future of Lunenburg would be to run
sewer on Chase Road, in order to service other businesses, including the DPW building, but they need to resolve the
40B issue first. Barb had the FY21 Encumbrance form at the office that needs to be signed and sent to the Town
Accountant, whenever they had time to stop by.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings/Counsel hours- Commissioners can sign up for Counsel hours in
August. Dave suggested getting information out to potential sewer customers with betterments/tie-ins. John
suggested getting a mailing list of potential customers. Dave suggested discussing Budget improvements and having
the Town Accountant attend a zoom meeting. Also, Rob Oliva is scheduled to give Maintenance Plan updates at
each in-person meeting.
Pledge of Allegiance - vote
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To start saying the Pledge of Allegiance at meetings.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
Dave reminded all of the 40B workshop on 8/3 and asked Barb if they need to post the meeting since they will have a
quorum present. Barb replied she did not think so but would check on it.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
August 10, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
August 31, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 17 Main St., 2nd floor Meeting Room
Public Comment - Dave thanked all who called with condolences.
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:47pm
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
