===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 10/12/21 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Vice-Chair-John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Deveikis and Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Chair- Dave MacDonald
Mike N. opened the meeting at 6:08 pm in the absence of Dave and John and did a roll call of attendees. The
Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb announced the Q1 delinquency notices have gone out. Anyone who has outstanding
balances from the past fiscal year which ended June 30th, will need to pay them, or those amounts will be added to
their December tax bills. The next meeting on October 26i will be in-person at the Town Hall. Rob reported he
received an email from Green Mountain Pipe, regarding the crack sealing work on Elizabeth Street. They will be
coming on October 18 & 19 to do that work. He added that the street will be blocked off to all but local traffic for those
days.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Upland Ave/Eastern Ave Extension discussion - Barb reported that she discussed surveying the residents with
Rob. Her concern is the ledge in that area and possibly having an engineer look at it, to weigh in on the estimated
costs. Barb added that they could look at other streets which might help offset the costs. She asked the Commission
to consider getting an estimate from an engineering company. Rob noted that he had discussed Upland Ave. with
Bob Proctor who is familiar with the ledge issue and has put in tight tanks in that area. Rob added it would be good
to get a rough cost for construction to let residents know what their share could be before they commit to doing the
work. He suggested contacting engineers that the Commission had used in past, to get quotes on preliminary design,
such as Wright Pierce and Weston & Sampson. Rob said he could solicit several engineers for estimates on a
conceptual design which would be well worth the investment.
Motion: Brett R.
To have Rob reach out to engineers and get estimate quotes for Upland Ave/Eastern Ave. work.
Discussion: John joined the meeting and asked if Rob could estimate how much the engineering estimate would
cost and Rob replied about $6-8K for a conceptual drawing from available information, including a construction
estimate. The Commission could discuss it again when they have the engineering quotes which should be under
$10K. John asked Barb how they approached it in the past and she replied that previously some members preferred
not to incur costs until it was confirmed that it could be included in a betterment. Barb added that she'd received
multiple requests from Upland residents and that there are several residences with tight tanks. She added that she'd
received requests in the White St. area too. Rob said he would go with a limited scope of work to get a preliminary
plan and quote.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike D.
To have Rob get at least 2 or more quotes for the cost for engineers to estimate the potential cost for the
construction of an Upland Ave./Eastern Ave, extension.
Discussion: John suggested amending the motion to include White St.
Brett amended the motion to include White Street and John seconded it.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye and Mike N.-aye.
Fitchburg Response to Regulation changes - Barb noted that she'd sent the Commissioners the attachment from
Fitchburg, Jeff Murawski, with his suggested changes but hadn't included the email with his concern regarding the
wording in Article IV, Section IV-3 regarding Discharge Documents. She would like to discuss this section with Town
Counsel, along with the other changes. Barb will come back to the Commission with Counsel's input and they can
vote on it. She clarified that the Commission will need to go through the notes and detinitions to see if the
Commission also agrees. The Commission agreed that Barb should discuss it with Counsel.
===PAGE 2===
Grease Trap permit renewals for FY22 - Barb reported all annual permits have now been received, including one
today with a late fee. The 1st Tuesday logs were due 10/5 and there are 3 still outstanding. Barb has reached out to
them by email or phone. She noted that Donnelly's log is outstanding but that they still appear to be operating.
Maintenance Report- Rob noted that Dave had asked about capital and maintenance expenditures so far. He said
that out of the $100K budgeted for Capital, they have spent just under $17K, which includes the Mass Ave 2 panel
and the impeller work at Dana St. Barb noted that the first panel was done in FY21. The Maintenance Account has
spent about $26K out of $64,425, which has $ 38,500 left. The work on Elizabeth St. was encumbered from FY21.
Rob is also trying to get Martinez Road Construction coordinated to do re-work on manholes on Mass. Ave. and
Leominster Rd. They have already purchased the castings from Pipe Plus and will get all work done this fall. Mike N.
asked if this work includes the cover on Mass Ave., at the town line which is over the meter and Rob replied it is not
on the list, because others are much worse.
FY22 YTD Budget - Barb reported the Revenues, so far, are $298,097.50 and Expenses are $345,991.30. The
Expenses are currently higher since they include the annual transfers to the town for Indirect Costs insurance and
benefits).
Minutes for 9/28 -
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the minutes from 9/28/21.
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye and Mike N.-aye.
Business Manager Report - Barb reported she has 3 invoices- Fitchburg Usage - $14,325.20, Fitchburg Debt
Service - $20,965.40 (which was budgeted) and Mead Talerman- $340.65 (August bill for mostly 419 Whalom Rd
issue). Invoices were verbally okayed by the Commission. Barb noted that there is one Conflict of Interest exam
still outstanding from the Commission.
Action Items: none
Public Comment- Brett said Mike N. did a great job chairing the meeting.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 26, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 2nd floor meeting room, 17 Main St.
November 9, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:43pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye and Mike N.-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Jeme T. Panding
Minutes Clerk
