===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
PUBLIC COMMENT-Carl asked to address some claims made by the Chair at the 1/12/21 meeting. He said his
goals for the Commission have not changed during his 15 years of service. He has and will advocate for the users
and implement the Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan (CWMP), even if in the minority. Carl added that
in regard to the resident seeking betterment relief, he was against approving the request to forgive $4,000 of the
betterment, as it would add to the debt to be paid by the remaining users. Also he was concerned this could lead to
other requests that could cost users over a hundred thousand dollars. He added that the legal costs that resulted
were not due to his seeking legal counsel during open hours which are free to the Commission. He never made a
motion to overturn the vote. In regard to the Cross Rd. extension, he said the driving force of the resident was to
extend the Sewer Service Area, so the property could be subdivided and developed. Carl said he believed this was
in conflict with the WMP and the Commission's policy on development. He spoke at Town meeting to make the
public aware of the history, the WMP and Development Policy. He added that he has always sought to be a team
member and to fight for what he believes is right, even if he is a single voice. Carl announced that he will not run
again and hoped that a sewer user would consider running for this office. He noted that he will send a copy of his
comments to Barb for the minutes. Dave said that Carl had 1 more year in his term. Carl thought his term was
ending and he will let Barb know what his intentions are. Dave told Carl he wanted an answer as soon as possible as
to what his decision is going to be.
Business Manager Report - Barb reported that she has received all the 1st Tuesday reports for Grease Traps and
she will have a draft for the Annual Report at the next meeting.
APPOINTMENTS
John Londa, Facilities Director for LMHS -54 Oak Ave. Appeal of Commission decision re: Reconsideration
request - John Londa said he contacted Barb to dispute the invoice he received. He noted that the school's irrigation
usage is 9 times the water usage for the rest of building. He stated one problem was the irrigation meter reading is
not done at the same time as the water reading. The irrigation meter shows more usage than the water reading. John
would like the water district to read both meters on the same day or to read the irrigation meter a day before.
Secondly, the invoice he received for the period ending 9/30/20, was based on 12,436 cu.ft. of water usage, but there
were only custodial staff in the building for that period. John L. said they would pay the existing invoice for $1,573.16
and recommends that the usage from 4/1 - 12/31 be reviewed to ensure the numbers are good. They have a
responsibility to make sure the numbers are right. Barb replied that she understands John's concern and will again
ask the water district to read both meters for the schools at the same time. She added that we did not have a good
starting point as we did not know when the irrigation meter went in, so we billed the schools the minimum charge for
the 4/1 to 6/30. We made the adjustment and are getting good readings now. Since it is a meter, usage will be
corrected as they go through the year. Rob O. agreed with Barb and noted the next reading should reflect normal
use. John R. and Carl agreed it will be good if both meters were read at same time. Carl suggested checking the
numbers again in 3 months to see if there is a significant discrepancy either way. Brett and Dave agreed to look at it
after another cycle. John L. agreed they will pay the existing invoice and come back after the next cycle.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
384 Mass Ave connection discussion - John Esposito - Rob reported he talked to John about the work done and
has reviewed John's pictures, which show everything was done correctly. They also discussed the need for a
surveyor and John said he works with an engineer who could produce a plan. Rob added he is more confident after
===PAGE 2===
confirmed for Carl that the line enters the laterals correctly. Rob also noted that property owners are responsible if
something happens up to where they connect to the main, even in the right of way. Barb asked John E. if the little
house at 386 Mass Ave was involved and he replied the only one involved was the big house to the right 384). John
noted the Water District will be meeting the next day. concerning the addition of the Aro Farms development to the
water district and all are welcome to attend and see the new building.
FY22 Budget discussion - Barb will send the preliminary figures to Heather at the end of the meeting. The
Commission discussed the figures in the draft budget provided by Barb. She added they are anticipating about 10
new connections. Barb has suggested an assistant position in the sewer office for backup and cross training to take
over when she retires. She added that this request would need to go through the personnel committee and Town
Meeting. Regarding Purchase of Service, Barb noted that Al (Empey) is doing a great job but they need to leave
some leeway for future costs. Legal costs are noted as $10,000 which is the figure from the past 2 years. Barb
reported the charge for Leominster went up for the last quarter, so she increased the amount for Leominster to
$400K. The final figures for Indirect Costs will be determined by the Town Accountant. The 3% Capital Reserve
transfer of $30,929.43 and the $ 656 OPEB Trust were noted. Dave suggested planning a workshop to just work on
the budget. Carl suggested discussing the John Fitch Highway Transfer, the Capital plan/strategy and the
Infrastructure plan. Barb clarified the last 2 Leominster billings were based on the flows and were built into this
budget. John R. agreed with having a special budget meeting. Brett asked if Carl could make a list of his comments
to discuss. Dave added they need to set money aside for the Maintenance Plan, along with Covid related uses to add
in. He agrees they need a part time assistant for Barb and would want to have money to add to Retained Earnings.
Barb noted that with this draft, they have $ 7,800 for retained earnings and seem to be doing well for FY21. Carl said
he will go through the budget and send a list to Barb. All agreed to plan on a workshop on 2/2 and finalize the budget
at 2/9 meeting.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance updates - Barb received a notice from Fitchburg that they have updated their
Ordinance and Lunenburg is required to look at theirs, per the IMA, to make sure they are equal or more stringent as
Fitchburg's. She added that there are a lot of updates to review and they are asking for a response in 30 days but
was assured by counsel that they could ask for an extension. Barb asked for a commissioner to look at the
regulations. John and Brett said they would volunteer if they can get an extension until late February. Barb will ask
Adam Costa (counsel) to send a request to Fitchburg for an extension.
Access to Town Counsel Policy - Dave said he would like a motion to change the policy wording from notification
to permission.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To change the wording in the Access to Town Counsel Policy from notification to permission.
Discussion- John said he would like to wait until there is a full commission for the vote and Brett agreed. Carl
proposed an amendment to the motion to change the wording from permission to advance notification.
John withdrew his motion in order discuss at next meeting with a full commission.
Minutes- 1/12/21
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the minutes for 1/12/21.
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
===PAGE 3===
February 9, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
February 23, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:46pm.
Second: Carl L.
Roll Call Vote: Carl-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Sane I lanley
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts: Public Comment from Carl Luck, read at 1/26/21 meeting.
