===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
at caucus and reminded all that there are still openings to run on the ballot.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
APPOINTMENTS -
Rick Blanchflower, 5 Chestnut St. to expand the sewer service Area - Jamie Rheault (Whitman & Bingham) -
Jamie did a screen-share of the plans for the property and showed the area that they would like to have redistricted
into the Sewer Service Area (SSA), to enable development in the future. They did a survey to flag the wetlands and
dug 9 test pits. In each test pit, they hit ledge between 3-4 feet, so all the soil on the property is not suitable for septic
systems. Jamie asked the Commission to confirm the area in the SSA. Rick Blanchflower has filled out a citizen's
petition to get on the warrant for the Town Meeting and they are looking for support from the Commission to include
the property in the SSA. Dave asked what the frontage is for the property and Jamie replied 152 feet. Rob said the
land is developable but if it is ledge, they cannot build septic systems. Rob asked how many units they want to build,
and Jamie replied one option is 10 lots with 4 condo units/lot, but they have other options too. John asked if the
property was land-locked at one time. Jamie said the property was owned by the Paton family and always had the
152' frontage. Brett said he would like to see it included in SSA and asked if they have paid betterments over the past
years. Barb replied they were assessed 1 betterment and if expanded, they would be assessed additional ones. Carl
noted in 2005, the Board of Selectmen were planning to sewer the whole town, but residents objected, feeling it
would have a negative effect. The Commission had a Comprehensive Wastewater Master Plan done to establish the
areas that needed sewer and determined that the front part of the property was developable, but had not wanted to
enable the larger section in the back to be developed. The Commission discussed the history of the boundary line for
the SSA in that area. Carl added he is strongly against adding it to the SSA as it would take a piece of property that is
otherwise not developable and put 40 units on it. Jamie said they could test the section of the property near the road
for a septic system, but no soil exists on the other side of the line to support septic systems. Brett asked to clarify that
the Sewer Commission does not control population growth or construction, but whether a property can be added to
the sewer system. Jamie said they would still need to ask for an extension for a single house as it would need to be
placed turther back to where the property is 175 teet wide to meet zoning requirements. Carl said he might support
moving the SSA line back for 1 house, but a 40-unit condo complex would increase everyone's taxes. The
Commission continued to discuss options for the property. Rob said if they allowed the extension, he would need to
make sure they have capacity and Barb noted that it would flow to Leominster. Jamie clarified it would not be a 40B.
John said he was concerned about capacity down the road and the town should be able to vote on it. The
Commission reviewed the similar situation with the old Whalom Drive-In property that Unitil developed on Electric
Ave. Carl read a section from the Sewer Commission's Regulations on development. Barb added that the property
would need the Sewer Commission's vote to allow expansion of use in the SSA. Jamie said he will discuss the issue
with Rob (DPW Director). The Commission did not take a vote, and the discussion will be added to the agenda for
4/13.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
183 Whalom Rd request for credit - Barb received a request from the residents to get some forgiveness on the
large bill, which was due to a toilet leak, and added they are senior citizens. She said that they have paid the bill, but
added that we don't usually make adjustments for a toilet leak since the flow has gone into the system and we pay for
that flow. The Commission discussed the request, agreeing that it is a tough situation but now they are paying for all
===PAGE 2===
19 Whalom Rd request for credit- Barb reported that this is a well customer and the standard charge for well
customers is $ 231.87/quarter. The standard charge was set many years ago and that there are no adjustments
usually done. The customer is a 90-year-old woman who lives alone and is asking for an adjustment to the minimum
charge. Barb added that there are 8 well customers in Lunenburg and noted that in Fitchburg, they give well
customers an option to install a meter. The Commission discussed the request agreeing that it is another tough
situation. Brett asked the cost for installing a meter and Barb estimated that it is at least $1000. Carl suggested
revisiting the policy and the minimum rate. Dave suggested, looking at the flat rate, that it could be based on number
of people or a payment plan. Barb noted that the resident is asking to pay the $107 minimum going forward. The
Commission agreed to discuss a new policy and add it to the next agenda. Rob agreed it is a good idea to redo the
policy, possibly based on size of the family. Barb will update the customer and add the policy to the next agenda.
(John left the meeting.)
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance changes- Brett and Dave will be meeting with Barb to discuss the changes.
Commitment approvals- Barb reported a correction for the amount of the Q1 FY21 Quarterly Billing commitment.
The amount submitted was $212,461.81 but the corrected figure is $222,461.81.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Carl L.
To approve the corrected numbers for the Q1 FY21 Billing Commitment.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Carl-aye and Dave-aye.
Q3 FY21 Quarterly Billing Commitment for $247,910.73
Motion: Carl L.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the Q3 FY21 Quarterly Billing Commitment. Roll Call Vote: Carl-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Minutes for 3/9/21
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Carl L.
To approve the minutes for 3/9/21.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Carl-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report -Barb reported that the FY22 FinCom Budget presentation on 3/11 went smoothly and
there were no issues. Dave thanked Barb and Rob for their support, along with FinCom. He wished Terry, who will
leaving FinCom, well. Maintenance Plan- Barb and Rob met with Carl to discuss changes and Barb will be sending
out an updated version for review. Carl added he appreciated Rob and Barb's time to discuss it. Rob added that it
went well, that they based some decisions on compromise from both sides and that the end product will be good.
Invoices- Fitchburg-$17,708.48 was reviewed. Elizabeth St.- Rob reported that he talked to Pat Cotton at Weston &
Sampson regarding the l/l study they did and their recommendations. He will be reaching out to contractors that Pat
recommended, to get some quotes for following the recommendations, such as to clean, camera, and seal leaking
joints. Carl added that are 2 issues- the remediation of the pipe going down the street and the specific lateral that
has 1,440 gallons per day (gpd) coming from a residence. Rob said the report noted 3 or 4 pipes were leaking at the
service connection, which are different from the one that Carl referred to. Carl clarified that it is a homeowner issue
because it is beyond the lateral. The I/l inflow is 1,400gpd, costing $3-5K per year. The homeowner needs to fix it or
disconnect the lateral and there may be clay pipes in that area. Legal had identified a 5-step process and the Sewer
•
===PAGE 3===
Public Comment - Carl asked Barb to send the flows for the algorithm. He also suggested going back to 7pm when
they return to in person meetings, to allow the public to participate in public comments.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
April 13, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
April 27, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:37pm.
Second: Carl L.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Carl-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Your h. Pandey
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Sewer Regulations Development Policy(Article II-2(I) of the Sewer Use Regulations
