===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CURRENT BUSINESS -
FY22 Budget - Dave M. acknowledged that Dave Passios (Finance Committee) was in attendance. Barb reviewed
the changes in the FY22 Budget made since the last meeting and noted that Karen (Town Accountant) suggested
changing Miscellaneous Expenses (under Expenditures) as Other Departmental Expenses and created a new
account for the Capital Expenditure transfer under that category. The Grease Trap permit fee revenue was reduced
to $0 since the Commission agreed for FY22 that it be waived. Engineering was raised to $20K and Leominster
Usage was bumped up to $500K. Dave Passios suggested, when making the presentation, they give a breakdown
and quick explanation of the Other Departmental Expenses. Barb said that she will provide the usual budget copy
with descriptions for FinCom's review. Dave M. reminded all that at the last meeting they advised the DPW Director
that they will commit monies to fund the Maintenance Plan and will take $100K out of Retained Earnings. Therefore
the amount for the transfer from Retained Earnings went from $120K to $300K. Rob added that some added costs
depend on the precipitation that comes in Spring and Summer. He may not need all of that transfer, but he wants to
plan ahead. Dave noted that they need to work with Leominster to find out what the Commission will be paying so
that they can budget accurately. He also would like to work on fixing the Whalom area's I/l (Inflow/Infiltration) with a
grant or cooperation with Leominster.
John said one of the reasons for the $100K in Capital Expenditures is to work
on getting the Leominster costs down. Dave M. reminded all that the presentation to the Finance Committee will be
March 11t. and the Commission will vote on the budget later in the meeting.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance Updates- Barb reported that John and Brett reviewed the Ordinance changes and
due to the number of regulations to review, John had asked if they could get an extension. Barb talked with Town
Counsel who thought it was a reasonable request and agreed to compose a letter to ask for the extension. Barb
noted that John and Brett's draft of changes will need to go to Fitchburg for approval and then it will come back to
Lunenburg for the public hearings required for updates to the Regulations before the changes become official. In
regards to getting the extension, Barb said that the Fitchburg Commission needs to approve our request. Dave asked
Barb to keep the Commissioners updated
Maintenance Plan discussion- Dave recommended going through the Maintenance Plan at the next meeting in
order to give Rob some direction and suggestions. He added that the Commission will rely on Rob's expertise. Rob
said he has gone through the Maintenance Plan, and in reviewing the I/l plan put together by Woodard & Curran, his
immediate plan would be to address some specific l/l items that would be most cost effective and have a quick
return. They should have a plan going forward for big-ticket items. Dave added that they will use Capital Plan
transfer to fund Rob's maintenance projects. Rob noted that one pump at Meadowwoods is near its end of life and
that a replacement pump has been ordered. Dave suggested that the Commissioners go with Rob to see the pump
stations. Mike suggested taking the Maintenance Plan in chunks, such as looking at I/l or pumps and asked Rob for
suggestions on where to start. Rob replied to focus on sections 2,3, and 4. Dave recommended that we have a mini
workshop on the Maintenance Plan at the 2/23 meeting
Annual Report submission for FY20- Barb explained that this report goes into the town annual report which is
distributed to residents at the Town Meeting and that this Report covers FY20, which ended June 2020. Barb
thanked Jane for writing the report and thought it was well written.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: John R
Second: Brett R.
To accept the minutes of 1/26/21 with the corrections suggested.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report -
Invoices: Fitchburg Invoice - $16,173.90 (for 11/26-12/25/20) and Mead, Talerman- $1,486.15 (mostly regarding 384
Mass. Ave.) were reviewed. Barb confirmed that the Commission is not on DocuSign, that she notes when invoices
are approved by the Commission and that we may need to go back and sign documents after in-person meetings
start. Grease Trap 1st Tuesday reports-all January logs are in except 3 and 2 will be bringing reports in on 2/10.
Dave asked if establishments were notified that the renewal fee will be waived again. Barb replied that she will put it
on the website and will also note it when she sends out the request for permit renewals for FY22.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings - Dave asked if there was an update on 384 Mass Ave. and Rob
replied the work will probably be put off until spring due to the snow.
Public Comment- Regarding the access to town counsel, Dave Passios commented that it is a very important tool
for those sitting on multiple commissions and boards. He said that a lot of questions come up as boards are trying to
make decisions. He strongly agrees that the privilege should not be abused, so he is following what the Commission
is discussing. There is nothing that he strongly disagrees with, but he wants to make sure the Sewer Commission's
policy does not "drag other Boards and Commissions down a rabbit hole that they do not want to go down". John
noted that Carl's graph for retained earnings is a useful tool and should be updated annually to be used in our budget
discussions.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To put forward to the Town Manager the budget as discussed and agreed upon tonight.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
Feb. 23, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Dave asked for a motion to adjourn.
Motion: Mike D.
To adjourn at 5:51pm
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Save h landry
Jane L. Ranle
Minutes Clerk
Handouts: FY22 Draft Budget of 2/9/21
