===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
food establishments that have not received their renewal should contact Barb.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Pond View Commons, LLC 40B discussion- Dave reported he represented the Sewer Commission at the site visit
and Barb attended the 40B workshop, held by Town Counsel. Barb sent the Commissioners the handouts from the
site visit and also the link to the video recording of the workshop. Any comments are due to the Select Board by 8/23.
Dave pointed out that the Commission is just concerned with how they will be getting sewer and utilities to the 40B
site. There are no engineered drawings as of yet. Barb screen shared a list of comments she put together with Rob.
The Commission reviewed the list and discussed the fact that the project is not in the Sewer Service Area. Dave
noted the sewer will be put in by the developer and they need to determine who will pay for the upkeep of the system.
Rob added once the application is approved, they will get engineered drawings and the project will be submitted to
the Zoning Board. Dave asked the Commissioners to send any additional comments to Barb. Mike N. noted the
developer will probably want to include the future development of 120 other houses. He added right now the flow to
Leominster is cheaper and Dave pointed out they will need to consider this volume when negotiating the IMA. One
option could be looking at Townsend, but Rob said Townsend has no sewer. John asked if Leominster or Fitchburg
are aware of this project and Barb replied that she had not communicated from this office yet. Dave also noted the
project has several 2- and 3-bedrooms apartments, which could add a lot to the flow. Mike asked if either city gets to
say 'no' to the flow. Barb replied that Town Counsel said since they have IMAs, a 40B project does not have any
sway over contracts. Also Leominster & Fitchburg will need to approve the flow and plans. John asked how many
pump stations would be needed. Rob replied it would probably be multiple pump stations (2-3) and may require
additional upgrades to the system. He added that they should seek additional financial contributions, beyond user
fees, to maintain the stations. Also since the area is not in the Sewer Service Area, the town should not be on the
hook for extra cost. Rob noted that since this is residential, the flow metering should be based on the water use not
metering for outflow as discussed for Bright Farms. Barb said that Emerald Place and Whalom Luxury Apartments do
not have pump stations and that the metering is done by building. Dave suggested installing a Grease Trap of some
sort, but Rob said they can't separate the grease from other waste on residential developments.
384 Mass Ave plan discussion- Rob reported Mr. Esposito submitted an acceptable as-built for this property. If the
Sewer Commission agrees, he will send it out to the state DEP. He added that the drawing shows the connection
going from 384 and crossing the property at 362, but the town does not allow easements. The Commission still
needs to discuss this and he suggested making the property owners grant an easement. Dave suggested putting it
on the deed and the Commission needs to address the issue. Barb said she will check with Town Counsel. The
Commission discussed and agreed Rob can send the plan to the DEP.
ARPA Monies (American Rescue Plan/Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund) - Rob reported there will be about
$600K coming to the town for use on infrastructure. He suggested upgrades to the system such as rehabbing pump
stations, Inflow/Infiltration (I/I) projects or feasibility studies to see what each pump station would need. Rob asked
Commissioners to send him other suggestions and said another $600K will be coming in another year or 2, but noted
the money will be shared by the Town. Dave suggested getting input from Al (CTE) and also working with
Leominster on I/l grants.
419 Whalom Rd requested sewer connection- Barb reported they are working with Adam Burney (Planning Board)
and Town Counsel. She added the buyer's realtor went to an attorney and she also heard from Unitil, who is an
===PAGE 2===
noted the readings were done through the end of July and they were slightly up but not doubled due to the rainfall as
feared. Rob added that they did not see a lot of I/l because the ground water level was low to start. DPW Director's
Maintenance report will be presented at the last meeting of each month. Rob reported that they have jetted and
camera'd on Mass Ave. in the area of the large bend, where they suspected a break in the line. They did not find a
break but found quite a bit of grease and a blockage from Riley Rd. The vendor will come back with a spinning
whirligig to completely clean out the lines. Rob would like to send out flyers to the homeowners' association to let
residents know about dumping grease. Elizabeth St- Rob is still waiting for the contractor to fit the job into their
schedule. Hollis Rd/Kimball St. extension- Rob met with the engineer and looked at it. He also asked Jim Garreffi
(Nashoba Board of Health) if there are any properties in need of sewer and he was not aware of any failures. Jim
was ok with going down Kimball Street.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings/Counsel hours - none
Public Comment- Dave announced pancake breakfast at Senior Center on 8/11. Barb reported there have been no
new candidates for the assistant position.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
August 31, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 17 Main St., 2nd floor meeting room
September 14, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:53pm.
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.- aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Lane & Conley
jane L. Kanle
Minutes Clerk
