===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 12/21/21 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Member-Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Mike Deveikis
Dave opened the meeting at 6:05 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb noted the bills that were sent out in November were due on 12/13. If anyone has not
received theirs, they should call the Collectors to get a payment in because the demands have already been
processed. Barb reported that all 3 sewer-related articles were passed at the Special Town Meeting on 11/16. The
articles were: budget article to increase hours for the Assistant position, the transfer to the Capital Reserve
Stabilization Fund and the Parks Commission's request for inclusion of Marshall Park in the Sewer Service Area.
Barb said the delinquencies from the prior fiscal year have been processed and transferred to the owners' tax bills.
John asked it there were many in that category and Barb replied there is $30,000 in back payments due, which was
less than previous years.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave asked Rob for an update on Marshall Park and Rob replied a landscape architect firm
has been hired. They are organizing public meetings for public input, and they will come up with some conceptual
plans. The plans will be reviewed by the Parks Commission with input from the public, to come up with a refined plan.
John congratulated Dave on a great job on the Salvation Army boot drive. Dave thanked all that participated and
noted they have served 1200 families. Mike Nault added it was nice to see Michael Ray and Todd Dwyer at the drive.
Dave noted they collected tons of toys and helped a lot of kids that day.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
DPW Director Report- Rob noted that the Commission was sent the RFP for preliminary sewer design for
Upland/Eastern Ave, and White St. He received proposals from Wright Pierce, Tate & Howard, Weston & Sampson
and Woodard & Curran. They were all fairly similar. Wright Pierce bid $13,200, Tate & Howard bid $19,800, Weston
& Sampson bid $42,000 and Woodard & Curran bid $15,000. Based on Wright Pierce's proposal for soil exploration
with 21 probes to search for ledge on Upland & Eastern, Rob would recommend going with Wright Pierce, as the low
bidder and their proposal was exactly what he asked for.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept Rob Oliva's recommendation to use Wright Pierce for the preliminary design.
Discussion: John agreed with using Wright Pierce but asked if the cost would be included in the project. Barb
replied it would be included in the cost, as long as the project goes forward. Dave suggested having some of these
engineers come in to meet the Commission in January. Rob agreed and wanted to introduce Tatum & Howard as a
new resource that he is familiar with. He also noted Wright Pierce was very interested in working with the town again
and they have a new associate on staff who is very knowledgeable on sewer. Dave added he would like to make a
commitment in 2022 to work on expansion and customer service.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave-aye.
Rob also reported they have completed work on Elizabeth St. I/l and have filled joints with 7 gallons of chemical
grout. He received a video of their inspections but will not be getting a report. Rob noted Barb reached out to
Fitchburg and Leominster to set up a meeting with the heads of the waste-water divisions. There is a new person in
Fitchburg and hopefully they will get together after the holidays. Rob reported that he received the as-built for 384
Mass Ave. and had submitted it to Mass DOT. Because the as-built showed work was not done in the right of way, he
asked to withdraw the permit app. The DOT obliged and the project has been closed out.
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund) - Barb reported the federal
government has approved funds but they are waiting on the state. Dave asked Barb to add compiling an ARPA funds
wish list to the January agenda. Rob noted the biggest needs would be the pump stations and the Commission
agreed. Dave said he is concerned about the flow meters and would like to discuss upgrades with Rob. Rob noted
that they recently have done 10 more manholes and have addressed the most critical ones. John suggested doing
===PAGE 2===
more investigation on I/l (Inflow/Infiltration). Dave reiterated he still would like to sit down with Leominster and would
not want to spend any more money on studies- they need to get solutions. Rob agreed they can go back to the
studies for suggestions/recommendations.
Grease Trap Policy- Dave noted he talked to the new Lunenburg Diner owner about the grease trap fees, who
questioned why he needed to pay someone to inspect the traps. Barb replied originally the fees were to pay for the
cost for inspections and the fees were less if they are compliant. The Commission discussed the grease trap policy,
fees and inspections. Barb noted that there is a lot of administrative time spent tracking compliance. Rob agreed
there is still a cost to implement the policy and an annual fee is appropriate. Mike pointed out the fees were put in
place so the restaurants would take the policies seriously and maintain the grease traps. Dave suggested talking to
the Chair of the Board of Health. He added that they should charge large fees for dumping grease. John noted if they
have large fees, they need to follow through. The Commission agreed to discuss the grease traps at a future
meeting. Barb noted that Jane also puts in time, helping her with entering logs and 1st Tuesday reports. She added
that with the Fitchburg Chapter 147 changes, they will be looking at several policies and will add the Grease Trap
Policy to the list so that all can be taken care of in the same public hearings. Barb stated for the record that the
Annual fees for Grease Traps are: Internal trap - $150 if compliant, $ 350 if non-compliant, External Interceptor -
$450 if compliant, $ 650 if non-compliant. Barb confirmed that all fees have been waived for the last 2 years by the
Commission. 1st Tuesday report-all logs are in for November. Barb added that the New restaurant, Lunenburg
Diner, has submitted all that was required.
Victuallers Licensing with Select Board- Barb has communicated with the Select Board that all are compliant, and
she is just waiting for the external pump out report from A&D Crossroads Plaza. She received the invoice, which
confirmed it was done, but is just waiting for a report.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance-Barb noted that Rob mentioned Jeff Murawski has left Fitchburg and Tony
Murrasa is interim. Adam Costa (Town Counsel) has not submitted his recommendations yet. He is answering from a
legal standpoint, but said some questions need to be answered by someone with technical knowledge - possibly a
consultant. After Adam responds, they can discuss if they need to be reviewed by a consultant or just sent on to
Fitchburg.
Q2 Commitment of $266,302.46 - Barb asked for a verbal approval for the Q2 Commitment.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the Q2 Commitment for $ 266,302.46.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave-aye.
Commissioners will come into sign.
FY22 YTD Budget - Barb sent out the budget for review and noted they are right on target. Revenues are ahead
(54%) and expenses are right where they should be. Barb confirmed that Fuel is good, and the pump stations were
just topped off for the winter. She has not received the bill yet.
Transfers to Delinquent on FY22 Real Estate taxes $30,593.35 - Barb noted she worked with the Assessor's and
Collector's offices to move any FY21 Sewer delinquencies to the FY22 Real EstateTax bills.
Minutes of 11/9 meeting review/approval- will be put on the next agenda.
Business Manager Report - Invoices- Fitchburg: $15,498.33 (9/26-10/25/21) and $ 18,978.61 (10/26-11/25/21)
and Leominster: $119,387.06 (6/26-9/25/21). All invoices are based on flow meter readings and the Commission
agreed with paying them. John asked Barb if she has an updated billing comparison spread sheet and Barb replied
she needs to do biling algorithm first. She added that Leominster billing for the same period in 2020 was $74,265
but noted that this had been a very rainy summer.
FY23 Budget and tentative 3/24/22 FinCom appointment- Barb received a tentative date from Heather for an
appointment with FinCom on 3/24/22. Dave suggested working on the budget in mid-January and noted that it was a
good presentation last year.
===PAGE 3===
Assistant to Business Manager - Barb reported they are trying to get the position re-posted but has not had an
update from Julie (Asst. Town Manager). Barb read a memo draft to Julie from the Commission, asking to post the
24-hr./week benefited position, as soon as possible and to have all resumes forwarded to Barb and Rob for review.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To have the formal memo sent to the Asst. Town Manager/ HR to have all the applicants for the Assistant
position be reviewed by Rob Oliva and Barb Lefebvre.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye.
Action Items: Dave said they will discuss the budget at 1/25 meeting.
Public Comment - The Commission wished everyone a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
January 11, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
January 25, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 2nd Floor Meeting Room, 17 Main Street
The meeting was adjourned at 7:09pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Handouts:
Draft memo from the Commission to Asst. Town Manager re. Sewer Assistant position applicants.
Read into the minutes by Barb Lefebvre.
