===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Carl Luck resignation - Barb noted this is the first Sewer Commission meeting without Carl as a member. He
started with the Commission's inception in 2006, served as Chair for 5 years (2012-2017) and again for some of
2020. With Carl's support, the Commission had the Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan completed in
2010 and updated in 2016. Through that process, the sewer district bylaw was created, and the Sewer Service Area
was determined. He always fought to control the sewer expansion to protect lakes and groundwater, looking for
alternative solutions. He also fought to present a balanced budget at Town Meeting and held rate increases for 7
years. Carl helped to negotiate the latest Fitchburg IMA and Highfield Village Allocation agreement, along with many
other projects. Barb added that the Commission wanted to thank Carl for all his service and that the success of the
Sewer Enterprise is due in no small part to his efforts and dedication to the task. They will be delivering a gift to him
personally. Barb thanked Carl for all he has done. Brett also thanked Carl for all his years of service. John added
that Carl has done a lot over the past 15 years and he considers Carl his walking history book. He will personally
miss him and thanked him for all he has done. Mike D. wished Carl well and Dave thanked Carl for all he had done.
Dave added he is looking forward to working with the new team, expanding sewer where they can and letting Barb
and Rob do their jobs.
Fitchburg Chapter 147 revisions - Barb reported she has not received an update from Town Counsel. She will
need to get an extension request from Counsel to send to Fitchburg. The review from Counsel will go to Fitchburg for
their review and then it will come back to Lunenburg for 2 public hearings. She has also been sending updates to
Fitchburg.
Control Panel work by Empey for Electric Ave Pump Station- Rob noted Empey sent over wiring diagrams for the
electrical panels. He added if the Commission is ok with it, they will go ahead to replace the panel at Electric Ave. If it
goes well, they will consider doing others. Mike noted it was a good set of drawings and they did a good job.
CTE (Chad Empey) Year 2 Contract to commence 7/1/22 - Barb reported the 1st year contract was just 9 months
through the end of the fiscal year and they need to get the 2nd year renewal contract going. She said there are a
couple edits, including 1 for the Exhibit A, adding reference to response to a SSO (Sanitary Sewer Overflow) and the
coordination of jetting. If the changes are ok with Empey, they will have it reviewed by Town Counsel. Dave asked
about taking out the simulated power failure from Exhibit A. Rob replied that Al said it was not necessary, since he
tests them regularly. Mike asked about exercising the generators regularly. Rob replied that he thinks Al does it
weekly and is very knowledgeable about generators. Dave and Barb agreed that the contract has been very good.
Rob noted the jetting is in the Maintenance Plan and he would want Al to coordinate getting the jetting setup and
done. Barb added that there will be a new contract for year 2. The Commission discussed adding the jetting to the
contract and agreed to put it under Hourly Services (section E). Barb said that the Maintenance Plan would be
incorporated under the umbrella of the O&M contract. The Commission discussed whether to have a separate
contract for Maintenance in the future, with possibly more than 1 contractor.
Elizabeth St I/I- Rob reported he is still trying to get quotes from 3 or 4 contractors, and he ran some questions by
Pat Cotton(Weston & Sampson). He added that the problem on Elizabeth St. is I/(Inflow/Infiltration). There is 700' of
pipe that Weston & Sampson noted needing cleaning, inspection and grout sealing of the joints on the main. Rob
added there are 3 specific services to grout and seal the service at the main. One contractor he talked to said they
could do the work during the day and not at night as originally told.
===PAGE 2===
will be on 5/20 and they are still by Zoom. In regard to Paula Bertram's questions on capacity, Barb repeated that an
applicant would need to come back to the Commission for increased usage. Dave asked Barb to send an official
response to Ms. Bertram, with co to Adam Burney and the Town Manager. Rob noted the regulations start with 330
gal/day unless the Commission approves more. Barb reported the Bright Farms Peer Review was done by Graves
Engineering and there were no issues regarding sewer. Barb noted that there was a Planning Board Public
Hearing for 711 Mass Ave 8 Condos project on 5/10. Rob noted that he'd studied the plans and had suggested an
alternative layout for the sewer. Dave said he believes it was denied and they will be coming back with corrections to
water and drainage. Invoices- Mead, Talerman - $551.32 (for bylaw review and opinion on 5 Chestnut St.) and
Fitchburg Usage- $ 16,478.38 (usage through end of April). Dave asked Barb how the budget looks, and she replied
the budget is doing well. Barb noted that she'd recently updated the Website with new office hours, added links for
pool and lawn waiver information, Carl's resignation, town meeting results, drain layer lists and updated forms. She
will also update the website after the town election. Policy update work - Barb said when they get the Fitchburg
revisions back, there are a few other policies to discuss and update during the public hearings, such as final reads,
wells, easement restriction, and the reconnection permit. Dave added there are alot of other items to look at and
asked the Commissioners to start making a list for discussion. He also would like to fix the billing cycle for Barb and
to ask Barb, Rob and Al what they need to make the business more profitable. Dave noted that Mike Nault, who is
running for the Sewer Commission, is a sewer customer.
Public Comment- Brett asked if they could discuss moving meetings from 5pm to 5:30pm. John, Brett, Mike, Dave
and Rob all agreed to 5:30pm but Dave wanted to put it on the next agenda when they have a full Commission to
discuss it. Dave added that the Town Election will be on 5/15 - 7am to 5pm and that at the next meeting on May 25,
there will be a reorganization of the board
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
May 15, 2021 - Town Election
May 25, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
June 8, 2021 @ possibly 5:30pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 5:53 pm
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Your h fame,
