===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 9/28/21 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair-John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Deveikis and Mike
Nault, DPW Director- Rob Oliva, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre
Dave opened the meeting at 6:06 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the
Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS- Dave announced the 1s quarter bills were due 9/27. If anyone has past due amounts, they need to
pay them or it will be added to your December tax bill, if they remain unpaid.
APPOINTMENTS:
Parks Commission - Marshall Park request- Dave Passios- Rob reported the Parks Commission would like the Sewer
Service Area (SSA) expanded to include Marshall Park and they may do a warrant article for the November Special Town
Meeting. Dave Passios noted the warrant article is the same as the one passed over at the Spring Town Meeting for
Chestnut St. He added the park is about 28 acres and the Parks Commission is starting to plan a renovation of the entire
park. He noted the old bathroom building was torn down and they found during testing the old septic system would not be
useable. They are doing test holes to see if they can put a new septic system in, which is one option the Parks Commission
has for restrooms on the property. Dave P. noted the Board Of Health has money for soil testing. They are looking to get
the park into the Sewer District with a line out to Mass Ave. He added there are pros and cons for both options. Dave M.
said he would want to put Marshall Park in the sewer district so they can have flexibility to go septic or sewer. John asked if
they know that a septic cannot be put in and Dave P. replied a septic could go in as a repair, in the exact same location.
Brett asked how long a repaired system would work and Dave P. guessed about 20 years. John asked how they would
determine the cost of the betterment. Dave M. replied sewer would just be just for the bathrooms, and he would like to add.
sewer connections at every park being used. Rob said he did not know if the regulations had an exemption for a municipal
connection. Right now, they are looking at just adding the park to the SSA. Mike N. said he would like to accommodate the
park but asked if it would have an effect on other properties. Rob noted the vote is to just add it to the SSA- not for a
connection. He added it is good for the community; it will always belong to the town, and it is not developable. Dave P. noted
they are looking for a septic location in order to determine the space needed. With a sewer connection, they could have
multiple lines in the park. John said he supported adding it to the SSA but adding a connection would depend on the
circumstances.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the request from the Parks Department to add a special article to the Special Town Meeting to add
Marshall Park to the Sewer District.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye, John-aye and Dave-aye.
Dave M. noted Dave P. and Karen are doing a great job on the Parks Commission and Dave P. said he appreciates the
support of the Commission so they can take the article to Town Meeting. (Mike N. & Mike D. left meeting.)
CURRENT BUSINESS -
711 Mass Ave Condo project-Rob stated this is an 8-unit condo project and the site plan was approved by the Planning
Board on 8/23/21. He had added some comments to the plan and the Planning Board approved the plan with conditions-
one being they had to come to the Sewer Commission for final approval. Rob screen shared the approved site plan and
noted they approved it with 8 sewer connections. He does not see any problems but asked the Commission to be aware of
his comments when they do come before them. Rob noted the Whitman & Bingham engineer for the project did not address
his comments, but that may have been an oversight. Rob said he will discuss his comments with them prior to their coming
to the Commission. John asked if this transpired before Whitman & Bingham was sold to Maine engineering firm and Rob
replied it was before the sale.
Upland Ave extension discussion- Rob was contacted by a party that wants to purchase 71 Upland Ave. and would like to
run an E1 pump system down Upland Ave, past the house next door. He added 61 Upland Ave. put in an E1 pump system
and ran the force main for the pump in the shoulder, down Upland to Electric Ave. for the sewer connection. The person
looking to buy 71 Upland would like to do the same thing, but Rob told him they cannot continue to run multiple force mains
down the shoulder. Rob suggested looking at making sewer available to everyone on the road. Jim Garreffi (Board of
===PAGE 2===
Health) confirmed there are septic problems on Upland Ave., and he noted another property on Upland may need a fight
tank in the near future. Rob added both Upland Ave, and Eastern Ave. have a lot of ledge on properties, slope down from
Hollis Rd. and are prime candidates for gravity systems. He noted a survey of residents was done several years ago, with
half of the residents interested in sewer. Rob suggested doing another survey as more could be interested now. Dave and
John agreed to ask Barb to send out another survey letter. John pointed out it could be an expensive project due to the
ledge. Dave M. suggested looking at other areas of need in town. Rob also suggested putting a list together and said it is the
tight tanks that concern him most.
Motion: John R.
To have Barb and Rob send a survey to residents on Upland Ave.
Discussion: Rob suggested adding Eastern Ave. also. John modified his motion accordingly.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To have Barb and Rob send a survey to residents on Upland Ave, and Eastern Ave. for a sewer extension.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Brett asked Rob if he could put together a list of other roads to consider for sewer need within the Sewer District and Rob
agreed to do so.
Special Town Meeting warrant articles- Dave M. reported the warrant closed at 5pm today and Barb had sent out a copy
of the Sewer Commission's articles.
Maintenance Plan report - Rob reported there are numerous manhole covers on Mass Ave., Leominster Rd and other
areas that need repair and will talk to a contractor about repairing 8-10 of them. He has already purchased several manhole
covers. The Commission discussed previous manhole repairs and others that need to be done, including some on Mass
Ave. Rob added they are still good on the budget. Dave Passios asked if the 4 manholes done at Paton's corner were done
by the state and Rob replied he thinks they were just cut and patched
FY22 Budget updates- Leominster's rate increase- Dave M. noted there was a 7% increase between Fitchburg &
Leominster and the extra was figured into the budget. Rob agreed Barb did well in her projections. Dave added the part
time assistant position will be changed at town meeting to a 24 hrs./week position, with full benefits. This will add about
$50K to FY22 budget.
Minutes of 9/14-
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the minutes for the 9/14/21 meeting.
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Grease Trap Program FY22 permit renewals- Dave reported that certified letters were sent on 9/17 to A & D Crossroads
and Dario's, concerning their outstanding permit renewals.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings/Counsel hours - Dave reminded all of upcoming counsel hours and to
email Barb with any agenda inputs.
Public Comment- none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 12, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
October 26, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 2d floor Meeting room
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:52pm.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
