===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
VUIN IN
Covid. The Commission discussed whether they would waive the fee in FY22, and that the Commission does not
incur any fees currently for inspections. Rob noted that a lot of towns do not charge a fee and would be in favor of
waiving the fee again to help the local businesses.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To suspend the Annual Grease Trap Renewal Fee for FY22.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Barb continued, explaining the remaining revenue figures. The Commission discussed the Reserve Capacity, Flow
Capacity transfers and Capital Reserve Funds. Rob suggested increasing the Capital Fund from $20K to $50K since
replacing a pump costs $17-18K. Barb noted that payroll figures are provided by the Town Accountant. The
Commission discussed Barb's proposal to hire a part-time Assistant for the Sewer office.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike D.
To approve a part-time assistant for 19 hours/week, without benefits.
Discussion: Carl noted he is not against a part-time person but does not support hiring an assistant as a back-fill
person, who would later move into Barb's high skilled business manager position.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and Carl- no.
Barb read a list of the expenses for Infrastructure under Purchase of Services. Rob suggested increasing Capital for
major repairs and replacement to $50K. He would like to come up with a plan for repair work. The Commission
discussed Rob's suggestion and Dave suggested taking $100K from Retained Earnings to fund Capital Expenditures.
Rob also suggested doing another pump station evaluation, since the last one was completed 10 years ago. Dave
said he still wants to talk to the Leominster mayor and also look into alternatives to solve the Inflow/Infiltration(/l),
such as grants. Mike said he agrees with putting money into the budget for items such as new pumps. John agreed
with starting with $100k. Carl noted the Wright Pierce report had a lot of information on the pump stations. Capital
expenses were clarified as being fixed items costing over $5K. The Commission discussed Capital expenditures and
expenses for the Maintenance Plan.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To pull $100K from Retained Earnings to put into the Capital Expenditures.
Discussion: Barb wanted clarification that Capital Expenses would increase from $20k to $120K and the
Commission agreed
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, John-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
The Commission discussed Engineering Services and agreed to $10K for the Flow Metering contract and increase
Consultant expense to $10K. Regarding Utilities, Barb reported they are starting to get credits from the Nexamp solar
program, but they will not know the total until they go through a full year. Barb said the Miscellaneous Expenses
include the Capital costs to Fitchburg for John Fitch Highway project and the debt service to Leominster, which
began in FY21. She noted that this was part of the reason for the FY21 rate increase. The Commission discussed the
figures for the Fitchburg and Leominster Usage, along with Connection Fees. Barb added that the Indirect Costs
amount comes from Karen (Town Accountant). Dave suggested discussing adding an automatic 2% increase every
2 years. Rob commented that it is a great idea but prefers a larger increase every 4 or 5 years. However, he added
===PAGE 2===
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:38pm.
Respectively submitted,
You k. Raney
Minutes Clerk
Handouts: FY22 Budget Draft
Second: Carl L.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
