===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ANNOUNCEMENTS -Dave noted this was the first live meeting in 1½ years. The Commission will meet the second
Tuesday of the month at 6pm via Zoom until next April. The last Tuesday of the month, they will be meeting live at
the Town Hall at 6pm.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
APPOINTMENTS -
Wes Flis (Whitman & Bingham) and Don Dobeck -re. 410 Hollis Rd. Sewer Extension request - Wes provided a
large version of the draft plan for a sewer extension as well as tabletop versions for the Commissioners. He stated
they are looking at running a sewer extension (approximately 939 feet), from the Pond St/Prospect St. intersection
(Lake Whalom Rotary) to service a single lot on Hollis Road. They would run a service under Pond St. to a lot at the
corner of Pond St. and Hollis Rd. Since Pond St. was recently paved, he talked to Rob Oliva and the suggestion is to
run the service along the southerly shoulder of Pond St. They would tie into the existing manhole at the rotary, pave it
and infrared seal the sections to match the new pavement. He added Rob suggested leaving stubs for the 7 other
potential properties and getting the opinion of the Sewer Commission. Dave asked why they would go down Pond St.
instead of Kimball St.? Wes replied it would be easier construction going down Pond St., as there are more utility
poles, slopes and drains on Kimball St. Rob said his preference would be to go down the center of the road in order
to service as many properties as possible. Wes replied if they ran down the center of the road, the developer would
need to re-pave the whole road, which would be cost prohibitive. Rob added it is 5 years - or longer-before opening
a road after paving. John asked if it would be privately funded and Wes replied yes - they would install it themselves,
with the 8" main going to the town. John asked if they approached any other property owners and Wes said the
owner of the southern property would be interested after the fact. Brett asked what their preferred route would be and
Wes noted Kimball St. would be shorter but Pond St. would be easier construction. He said abutters are not willing to
connect now to share the cost. Mike Nault agreed he would also like to see it go by more properties and Mike
Deveikis asked if they looked at going down Hollis Rd? Wes replied they did not look at it but asked if the sewer went
down Prospect St. by Hollis Rd. Rob stated it did and confirmed Hollis Rd. had been recently paved. Mike D. asked if
provisions would be made for future extensions down Hollis and Kimball? Wes replied they could pick up at the
corner of Kimball and Pond. Don Dobeck noted they could move the manhole up at the corner of Pond and Kimball,
adding a stub & cap for future purposes. Dave added he would like to see it go down Kimball and Hollis, as he knows
people in need of sewer in that area. Rob suggested contacting the Board of Health regarding residents in the area
with septic problems. Wes said the issue is the cost for the developer unless residents are willing to pay their fair
share. Don said they have no problem coming down Kimball- the issue is the cost of paving. John suggested sending
letters out to residents and Dave said the Commission would take care of sending those letters out. Rob suggested
having the Lunenburg Water District look at the plans. Don noted this will be for his own house and will not be sold.
Wes confirmed that it will be less than 1,000 ft. which only requires an as-built plan and they will look at both streets.
John noted the letters to residents should have a short response time. Rob added if they could look at hugging the
side of Kimball St. it would benefit more residents. Wes asked if they could get a temporary easement across the
triangle lot on Prospect and Kimball. Rob said they could do a temporary construction easement but would check the
regs.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
CTE O&M Contract extension for Year 2- Rob reported CTE has submitted the contract and the Sewer
Commission signed it.
===PAGE 2===
Bright Farms status - Rob said he has not had any updates and Dave said he put a request out to Adam Burney
(Planning Board) for an update.
FY21 TD Budget review- Commission discussed the FY21 budget and agreed it looks good. Rob noted that
Revenues are up. Dave commended Barb's work on controlling the budget during a difficult year.
Minutes of 6/8/21 -
Motion: Mike Nault
To accept the minutes for 6/8/21.
Second: Brett R.
Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report - Rob reported CTE installed the Electrical panel for Electric Ave., and it is running
great. The Nameplates were provided by Mike Nault. Invoices: Fitchburg Usage - $17,586.68 and Mead Talerman -
$1,470.67. Rob said he had no updates on the Howard St. 40B project. Carl Luck's retirement- Rob reported that
Carl sent a thank you note for the sign and gift card from the Commission. He read the note out loud for the minutes.
5 Chestnut St. response from Town Counsel was sent to Mrs. Bertram. Regarding the electrical panels, Mike D.
asked if others will be installed and Rob replied he would like to look at conditions at the other stations before
installing a new panel. Mike D. said he would look at the new panel. Dave asked if the stations were on the Solar
program and Rob said he would need to ask Barb.
Member Agenda Inputs for Future Meetings/Counsel hours - look at the Maintenance Program. Dave thanked
Adam Costa (Town Counsel) for attending the last meeting and Commissioners can make an appointment for
counsel hours.
Public Comment - Rob noted he had more items for the Commissioners to sign. Dave thanked everyone for helping
get through the past difficult year and wished all a Happy Ain of July.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
July 13, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation via Zoom
July 27, 2021 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 17 Main St, 2nd Floor Meeting Room
Motion: Mike D.
To adjourn at 6:40pm.
Second: Brett R.
Vote: Brett-aye, John-aye, Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Jare L. Renery
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Plan by Whitman & Bingham for 410 Sewer Extension
Thank you note from Carl and Phyllis Luck
