===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1 for a 1-year term and 1 for a 3-year term.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
FY22 Budget - Retained Earnings projection- Dave thanked Barb and Rob for all their work on the FY22 Budget.
Barb noted that she sent out the projected Retained Earnings report for the Betterment Income vs Debt Service. Barb
screen-shared the Retained Earnings report, which included a projected Retained Earnings graph. Carl asked to
clarify the figures, in light of taking $300K out in 2022. The Commission discussed the Retained Earnings projection.
Barb estimated that Retained Earnings would be around $1.4million after this transfer, but they still do not know how
FY21 will end—it is all estimated at this point. The Commission agreed that it is important to have a clear picture of
the financials. Barb will update the spreadsheet with the known transfers and send out an updated Retained Earnings
projection, along with the planned FinCom presentation. The Commission discussed Barb's summary of the FY22
Enterprise Fund Budget. Rob added that the presentation to FinCom provides more detail for the category Other
Department Expenses'. Dave suggested adding the maintenance plan to the presentation. He added that we are
increasing money for the Leominster usage, but may not use all of it. Dave summarized the presentation to the
FinCom. Carl noted that we have line items for the day to day but the proposed capital costs are not earmarked yet.
Dave said he still wants to sit down with Leominster to discuss I&l. The FinCom presentation will be 7:30pm on 3/11
on Zoom.
Town Meeting draft articles-Barb noted that the 3 articles need to be approved and are the standard budget
articles with transfers to the Capital Reserve and OPEB. She clarified that the actual numbers will be part of the
motion made at the Town Meeting. Barb screen-shared the list of articles.
Motion: Mike D.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the 3 Draft Town Meeting Articles for the Sewer.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance-Barb reported that John dropped off a folder with his work on the ordinance
update. Dave and Brett will finish working on it after the Budget presentation is completed.
Minutes of 2/23 meeting-
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Carl L.
To accept the minutes of the 2/23/21 meeting.
Discussion: Carl asked why the handout was noted as a recording rather than a hardcopy. After discussion,
he said he accepted the wording.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Carl Luck's resignation letter dated 2/23/21, effective 4/30/21 - Dave thanked Carl for his many years of work and
hopes that he enjoys his retirement. He also hopes people come out to attend the Town Caucus. Carl encouraged
someone on sewer to run for the open position.
Business Manager Report - 88 Mass Ave meeting- Barb reported there will be a hearing on 3/10 at 7pm for a
Marijuana establishment at that location. Barb has updated the Website with current news, updated applications,
===PAGE 2===
agenda, which is a known Inflow problem from a residence, potentially costing $3-5K per year. Rob noted a letter
went out to the property owner and can follow up. He also talked to Patrick Cotton at Weston Sampson. Carl added
the Commission needs to decide what action they will take. Carl asked about a line that was jetted and found issues
which was mentioned at Jack Rodriquenz's last meeting. Barb replied that they are waiting for the weather to improve
so they can have camera and jetting companies come out to the Mass. Ave. site. Dave asked Carl to bring up any
items that haven't been addressed. Carl asked about the pump station algorithm, that he would like to get the
numbers from the last billing to see results from the last analysis. Barb noted the counsel hours will be on the 23ra.
Public Comment - Brett said he would like to learn more from Carl before he leaves, and he thanked him for his
many years on the board. Dave noted that today marks 1 year from the start of Covid 19 crisis. He said it was a
tough, nerve wracking year with lots of changes. He is very proud of all the Commissioners, DPW staff, Barb and
Jane. He cannot wait until they can meet in person.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
March 11, 2021 @ 7:30pm - FY22 Draft Budget Presentation to FinCom
March 15, 2021 @ 7:00pm - Town Caucus Middle High School Auditorium
March 30, 2021 @ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
April 13, 2021
@ 5pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Carl L.
To adjourn at 6:01pm.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Carl-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectively submitted,
Jane h. /Carly
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
FY22 Budget summary and Retained Earnings projection
Carl Luck's resignation letter of 2/23/21
