===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 02-08-22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Members: Mike Deveikis and Mike Nault,
DPW Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Brett Ramsden (Clerk)
Dave opened the meeting at 6:01pm. and Barb did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by
saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT and ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
FY23 Draft Sewer Budget- Dave suggested tabling the discussion and have a special meeting on 2/15 to discuss
the budget. The Commission discussed the special meeting and agreed to meet 2/15.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To have a budget meeting on 2/15 to discuss the budget.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) fund- (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund -Rob attended the
consultant's presentation on ARPA funds. Originally, he thought the money would be just for wastewater projects, but
actually the town will be getting a certain percentage of money for general use. The funds would be easier to use and
also a pump stations project could be funded as an SRF project. Dave suggested prioritizing projects and look at the
1/1 (Inflow/Infiltration) in the Whalom area. Rob noted he and Barb met with Jake Fleming in Leominster regarding
their ARPA fund projects, which will include sewer flow studies and metering. They discussed working together on I/l
in the Whalom area, with flows going to Leominster. Rob agreed the Commission could prioritize projects, including
the Whalom area. John asked Rob if he had any thoughts on whether a good part of the I/l problem is coming from
Whalom. Rob replied there are old services in that area and some additional flow study could help. He added the
Lunenburg system is young compared to others, but there may be spots with leaky joints that haven't been identified.
The amount of I/l does not raise eyebrows with the DEP and a good percentage of what they see is most likely from
the Whalom area. John asked Commissioners to notify Rob and Barb with any potential projects. Barb noted Paul
Casey (Flow Assessment) confirmed that the equipment in the meter pits has all been updated. Rob added Flow
Assessment has committed to another lease year, at the same price. Rob will talk to Kevin Olson (Wright Pierce) for
guidance on possible projects. Dave asked about the deadlines and Rob replied 2024 to come up with projects and
2026 to spend the money.
Policy/By-law updates- Dave stated this is an opportunity to update policies for the town meeting. Barb noted she
will be talking to Town Counsel on 2/24. The Warrant Articles are due by 3/21 and they would need to name any
policies they are updating. They will also need 2 public hearings on the policy changes before town meeting. Barb
screen shared an excel sheet of Policies/By-laws for the Commission to review for the Spring Town Meeting.
1. DEP requirement- Barb will confirm if it is still required on projects over 1,000 feet.
2. Drain Layers- Barb will ask Counsel if necessary to still require a notary stamp.
3. Prorating of bills- Barb noted the minimum is $107. Commission discussed and Barb will check with the
Water District regarding their prorating policy.
4. Wells- Barb stated there are 9 users on wells and currently there is a set quarterly charge of approximately
$200 for each. The Commission discussed options for charging based on number of bedrooms, number of
residents or square footage of the house. The Commission will discuss the policy again at a future meeting.
5. Connection Policy-Rob stated they currently charge $1,000 to re-connect to an existing service or laying
a new service to a property that was previously sewered. Since it involves administrative work and an
inspection by him, he suggested charging $50 to $100 as a fairer amount. The Commission discussed and
agreed to change the fee from $1,000 to $100.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To change the re-connection fee from $1,000 to $100.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
===PAGE 2===
6. Change to Bonds process - Rob noted they currently only require performance bonds with road openings.
Barb added she has had drain layers ask about requiring bonds and other towns do require them. She
noted in Fitchburg, drain layers give the City $5,000 on account. Dave said the bond is to cover damage to
the infrastructure. The Commission discussed and Rob said he will get more information for future
discussion.
7. Change to Specifications - Rob stated they do not have details spelled out for specifications for a new
service. He would like to offer more detailed information for engineers, noting 6" pipes and slope of 2%.
Barb also asked to discuss the use of the terms service vs extension. Commission will discuss this later.
8. Waiver - Rob said Town Counsel suggested adding a paragraph to the by-law about granting waivers. Barb
said the Commission had discussed the waiver in 2018 and decided not to do it then. She suggested the
Commission look at it again and discuss it.
9. Easements - Rob suggested an easement would be a minor compromise to connect a property to sewer, if
a property could not do a septic system and there was no other way to connect. In the past the Commission
did not allow easements because they did not want to encourage development through an easement. He
suggested wording it carefully or do them on a case-by-case basis. He asked to consider an easement to
sewer in cases of Title 5 failure and the only option was a tight tank. The Commission discussed and agreed
it should be on a case-by-case hardship basis. They will also get an opinion from Town Counsel.
10. Deduct Meter policy - Barb said the policy needs to state that the meters should read in cubic feet.
11. Grease Trap policy - Discussion on number of establishments that are in compliance. Barb reported that
most are compliant. Dave noted when the policy first started there was a lot of establishments not inspecting
their grease traps and they were paying a company to do inspections. Now establishments are paying a fee
even when they are compliant. The Commission discussed non-compliance fees, charging for inspections
and large fines for dumping. grease down the drains. Barb said the FY23 budget reflects non-compliance
fees. She added the grease trap regulations do not note a charge for inspections and the Annual Permit fee
was increased to cover inspections. If the Commission would like to charge for inspections, it would need to
be added to the regulations. The Commission agreed to charge non-compliant establishments for
inspections. Dave asked Barb to run it by Town Counsel. Barb asked who would inspect and Dave
suggested a grease trap company or a plumber. Rob said he could do the inspections:
12. Direct Connect Language - Barb wanted to add language to the regulations similar to the Fitchburg IMA
regarding users that connect directly to Fitchburg that they need to contact the Town of Lunenburg.
13. Monitoring and Inspection- Barb asked to remove the fee schedule in section 4.0 because it was never
implemented. The Commission agreed and Barb will discuss it with Town Counsel
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To remove section 4.0, paragraph 3 from the Sewer By-laws.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave- aye.
14. Hearings (Section 9.0) - Barb read the current wording and proposed going back to posting the hearing
twice with only 1 hearing. The Commission discussed the change and agreed it will streamline the process.
15. SSA Expansion clarification- Barb noted after discussion last year about SSA expansion, she had asked
Counsel for a clause that will say "the Commission's recommendation for expansion of the SSA is not to be
confused with an approval of a project not yet specified." She has not yet received the actual wording from
•Counsel.
16. Sewer Commission -powers to amend the Regulations- Barb pointed out the By-laws do not state the
Commission has the power to amend Regulations. Counsel has provided the verbiage and she would like it
added in.
Annual Town Meeting Warrant- the Commission will discuss their articles on 2/22. Barb noted there will be the
normal 3 budget articles (Appropriations for FY23, Transfer to Capital Reserve and OPEB transfer), 1 article for
===PAGE 3===
Sewer Use Regulations and 1 article for Sewer By-law changes. The OPEB transfer was incorporated into the town's
general budget article so there maybe just 4 articles. The Warrant Articles are due 3/21 and The FinCom
presentation is 3/24.
Grease Trap Compliance issue (A&D Crossroads) - Barb reported the interceptor behind the A&D plaza was
pumped out last July, but she never received the report, even though she requested several times. She also brought
it up with the Select Board office during the Victuallers licensing process but it was not enough to pull the license
because they have paid their bills. The issue is that A&D has not provided the required report. Barb would like to start
the non-compliance process by sending out a letter stating they have 30 days, or it will be $50. If they don't respond,
it will be $25/day. The Commission discussed the issue and Barb asked for a vote to proceed with the non-
compliance process.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike D.
To begin the non-compliance process for A&D Crossroads.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
Assistant Business Manager search - Barb reported they had 3 interviews and they were good candidates. Julie
(Asst. Town Manager) is checking their references.
FY21 Annual Report- Dave asked Jane for clarification on the wording in the 2nd paragraph and Barb pointed out a
typo in the 6'h paragraph that will be fixed for the final submission.
Motion: John R.
To accept the FY21 Annual report.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye and Dave- aye.
Minutes for 1/25/22 meeting-
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes for 1/25.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave-aye.
Business Manager Report - Sewer Extension Engineering Design contract status - Barb reported the contract
was sent to Wright Pierce and they will be meeting with Barb and Rob on 2/11. Wright Pierce will be starting the
ledge borings on 2/14. Fitchburg Chapter 147 updates- Barb sent the updates to Fitchburg but has heard no
updates. 1st Tuesday reports - Barb is just missing a report from 1 establishment. Invoices- none
Action Items- none
Public Comment - Dave announced the Senior Center will be having a pancake breakfast on 2/9 at 8am.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
February 15, 2022 @ TBD - Special Budget Meeting, Remote Participation
February 22, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
March 8, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R
To adjourn: 7:50pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave- aye.
Tave h
Handouts: Policy-Bylaw and section reference spreadsheet
