===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 7/12/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Member- Dave MacDonald, DPW Director- Bill
Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Asst. Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Mike Nault and Mike Deveikis (Clerk)
John opened the meeting at 6:01 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb announced they sent out the annual permit applications for grease traps (FY23) and
they are due back by 8/10/22.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Exploration of Billing Software options- Paula screen-shared a presentation of the Muni-Link Utility Billing
program. She noted she has gone through 1 billing cycle and the next billing cycle will be early August. She added
the billing process is extremely cumbersome, with a lot of data manipulation going on. With Barb's approval, Paula
contacted a few firms, attended several demos and found one software vendor (Muni-Link) with a lot of functionality
that would streamline efficiencies. Barb and Bill also attended a presentation by Muni-Link and were interested.
Paula summarized the current billing process, which requires the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access and Munis
(the town's accounting system). Access is used to create customer numbers, reports, manipulate data for irrigation
meters, check for errors and import readings via Excel from the Water District. The numbers from Leominster and
Fitchburg are entered manually. Excel is used to track ownership changes and account adjustments. They generate
a worksheet to compare data from last billing to the current billing to see if it matches up. Another worksheet tracks
final reads so they can correct any invalid readings. The Northern Data file from the Water District is imported to
Munis and they correct any errors. The bills are printed, stuffed and sent out in-house. Demands for over-due bills
are done through Munis and sent out from the office. In between billing, there are a lot of data changes made in all 3
programs. Paula shared copies of sample data and worksheet screens. She added it takes a minimum of 30 minutes
for every ownership change. The Water district provides customer readings in CSV format and Excel. Leominster
provides readings in Excel, but Fitchburg provides readings in pdf, and they have to be entered manually. The entire
billing process takes 2 weeks, not including final reads, ownership changes and adjustments. The goal for finding a
new software system is to streamline, simplify and easily import from multiple places. They also need to import and
export data to Munis, eliminate any manual entries, decrease errors and save time. Paula shared a comparison of
the products from Northern Data, Muni-Billing and Muni-Link. Northern Data is just a billing outsource mailing system.
Muni- Link has the most advantageous platform. Muni-Link has a 1- time fee of $8K and $400/month for 920
customers. Bill generation can be done for an additional fee per piece. Muni- Billing has a 1-time fee of $5-7K, and
$600/month. Muni-Link has all documents for an account in one place and they can attach photos, videos, etc. E-Bills
and E-payments can be done. They can also communicate to field staff in real time regarding problems. Paula talked
to a couple of references, that gave Muni-Link great ratings. She said the next step would be authorization from the
Commission to proceed. Then they would need to talk to the Town Manager, Treasurer, Accountant and Munis about
the process. Once funded, the implementation process would take about 7 months and they would bring 3 years of
data over to the new system. Dave asked if they provide technical support and Paula replied they provide live
customer support. Dave also asked if she talked to other town departments, or Leominster and Fitchburg about the
system. Paula replied they have not and wanted to approach the Commission Dave said he is in favor of the
program. Brett asked how long it would take to do bills with the new system and Paula replied it should cut the billing
to a couple days. It would also flag any errors. They would need to keep Munis but eliminate Access & Excel. Bill said
it would be a great improvement and he recommends it. John added it would save time and he is just concerned
about what the Town Manager and Accountant say. In regard to funding, Dave suggested taking it from capital or
maintenance. Barb reported they came out ahead for FY22 and in FY23, they budgeted $4K for billing mailing. They
could put $4k down and pay the second $4K when the process was complete. If needed, they could go to the special
town meeting. Dave suggested budgeting $15K and Paula replied it could be budgeted over 2 years. His concern
===PAGE 2===
was the tech support, and he recommends they go forward. Paula said the next step is to talk to Town Accountant,
Manager and Treasurer first. Muni-Link could also come in to do a quick demo.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the recommendations from Paula Bertram and Barb for the new program for the billing system and
strongly recommend implementation.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Dave asked Barb if the conference room has been upgraded for Zoom and she replied not yet. John will check with.
the Town Manager.
Review of Maintenance Plan and plans for FY23- Bill noted Wright Pierce put together a comprehensive
maintenance plan. They have been using contractors to do work such as jetting lines-especially those that are
troublesome- and using the camera on those lines. Also he will be going forward with recommended repairs on
manholes for Inflow/Infiltration (I/l). The Sewer Operation & Maintenance contract with Chad Empey (CTE) has a list
of recommended upgrades to address. They respond to emergencies and work to stay within the budget. Bill noted
he would like to advertise a maintenance contract to do the jetting, camera work, manhole inspections, repairs for I/l
and response for emergencies that did not overlap with the contract with CTE. They may get a better price if the
contract goes out for bid. Dave cautioned about putting a contract on top of another contract and does not want
mess up the CTE contract. Dave inquired about the FY23 budget figure for maintenance. Barb replied it is $64K for
infrastructure (repairs and emergencies) and $50K in Capital for planned improvements. Dave suggested adding to
a future agenda the discussion of maintaining the funding for either $50K or $100K for maintenance.. Dave asked if
there is ARPA money still available and Barb replied she will check with the Town Manager. John added they have a
good relationship with CTE, and they do not want to damage that. He noted it would be great if Bill looked at better
ways to do the other work not performed by CTE.
Upland/Eastern/White/Maple extension project-Barb reported 64 letters went out to residents in early June and
they did a follow-up in late June to the 36 that had not responded. Out of the 42 responses, 16 were for it, 26 against,
and 21 that did not respond potential connections were reduced in 63). They would need 26 residents in favor to
have a 2/3rds majority, so at this point the extension is put on the back burner. Barb noted there was not a 2/3rds
majority in favor on any street.
Privilege Fee Assessment for 17 Highland ST.- Barb reported the property was not connected as of the last
meeting but it was connected as of 7/2/22. She asked the Commission to revote to assess the Privilege Fee of
$11,551.47.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Dave M.
To assess the Privilege Fee of $11,551.47 to connect to the sewer main at 17 Highland Street.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Barb asked for at least 3 Commissioners to come into the office to sign off on the Privilege Fee.
FY22 encumbrances- Barb read figures for FY22 encumbrances which totals $57,819.87 as follows:
CTE (Control Panel) -$6,000, Leominster Debt Service- $38,200, Office Laptop (for Paula)- $2,300, Generator
Maintenance- $2,000, Generator Repairs (Injection Pump and Water Pump)- $8,300, Wright Pierce balance for SSO
notification project - $1,019.87.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Dave M.
To accept the FY22 encumbrances for a total of $57,819.87.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
FY22 End Of Year final commitment of $1,567.97 - for final reads done after quarterly billing commitment.
Motion: Brett R.
To accept the FY22 final commitment of $1,567.97.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Meetings format discussion- Barb spoke to Town Counsel, and it appears the Governor is planning on extending
the Zoom allowance for meetings until 12/2023, but it is not yet final. She noted the next meeting is 7/26 at the Town
===PAGE 3===
Hall which could be in person, hybrid or Zoom. John said he would like to keep it as Zoom or Hybrid. Brett and Dave
agreed.
Minutes for 6/14/22- John asked to postpone minutes to next meeting. Dave and Brett agreed. Barb will fix an error
in the minutes and resend to Commissioners.
Business Manager report - Barb reported the SSO Notification was due by 7/6 and we had sent it off to the State
on 6/10. She added they will be using a Code Red system, similar to the Fire Department, if there is an overflow.
Sanitary Sewer Overflows (SSO) are not a frequent occurrence. Barb sent out the year-to-date FY22 Budget and
they have come out ahead, instead of the $190K deficit originally estimated. She also sent out the FY23 Budget.
Chase Ra. Committee- Barb and Bill will be on the committee to discuss expansion of water and sewer on Chase
Road, from Mass. Ave. to West Townsend Road, in anticipation of the proposed 40B project. John said he would
also participate. Il Forno-Barb received a confirmation from the Planning Board that they will write into the agreement
the seating capacity is currently 134 and will remain 134. Dave questioned whether the capacity would actually stay
at 134 and asked to talk to Casey (Building Inspector). John said it was ok for Dave to talk to Casey. Pump station
tours were done on 6/15, with Brett, Bill, Mike D, Paula and Barb attending. Al Packard did the tours at Dana Street
and Electric Ave stations. Barb reported the Grease Trap program annual permit letters were sent out and they will
be only billing those who are non-complaint. There are 6 internal and 4 external that were non-compliant. The
external non-compliant ones are those who are late in doing pump-outs. They have all met the requirements and are
now compliant. John noted about half the establishments were non-compliant and he would not want the new fee
policy to become a cause for more follow-up by Barb. Barb replied they are chasing down the ones that are always
late with logs or pump-outs. Invoices- Fitchburg monthly-$14,755.35, Mead, Talerman(2)- $542.37 (6/20 invoice
for bisecting lots with SSA and O&M Bond) and $221.49 (through end of fiscal year). Barb noted they ended the year
$600 over budget for legal expenses.
Public Comment - Dave invited all to the pancake breakfast at the Senior Center on 7/13. Barb said she will need to
confirm if the Chair needs to be in person at a hybrid meeting. Dave asked Jane to correct the minutes of 6/14
regarding Il Forno to read he "watched the public hearing live on PACC TV and called Casey the next morning."
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
July 26, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Zoom/Hybrid
August 9,2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 7:14pm.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Jane L. Rank
Minutes Clerk
