===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 11/29/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Vice-Chair - Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill Bernard,
Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Asst. Business Manager-Paula Bertram, and Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Chair- John Reynolds and Clerk- Mike Deveikis
Brett R. opened the meeting at 6:03 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by
saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave passed on condolences to Jamie Towle and Jo McLaughlin, for the loss of her father,
George. He also invited all to the tree lighting on 12/1 in the center of town and to bring the kids to see Santa.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb reminded anyone who still owes money from the last fiscal year, which closed 6/30/22,
that the outstanding sewer bills will be put on their tax bill. They should pay it or it will soon be sent to the assessors.
APPOINTMENTS-
Jason Paquette, contractor for 7 Harris Ave. - Barb stated this was a change of use approval required by an
expansion of use. They are putting a major addition to 7 Harris Ave. which almost doubles the square footage. This
requires approval by the Sewer Commission as an expansion of use and will require an additional privilege fee. Dave
asked if the project had been approved by the Building Department and Jason replied the Building Inspector is ok
with the square footage and plans. Dave also asked if an additional stub will be brought to the property. Jason replied
it will use the existing stub and the plumber is Sam Winship. The building permit is pending approval by the Sewer
Commission. Barb screen shared the Application from David Moffat (homeowner) for expansion of use, which noted
current usage as 157 gpd., which will increase to 393 gpd. Barb read from the Sewer Bylaw which requires Sewer
Commission approval for the expansion of use and subsequent privilege fee assessment. The Commission
discussed and agreed to approve the change of use.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N
To accept the Change of Use for 7 Harris Ave. for Jason Paquette.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
Kristin Moffat asked why the estimated gallons went up so drastically and Brett explained the calculation is by square
footage. They will still be charged based on actual usage. Paula added it is based on 110 gpd (Title V flow) per
bedroom and the calculation is based on potential occupancy - not actual occupancy.
Request for Credit- 99 Leominster Rd. - Brett stated there is an active irrigation system, from original construction
in 2015 but the original owners were not enrolled in deduct meter program. Barb added Jennyfer Cabral had recently
purchased the home and the sellers told her the deduct meter was active in the irrigation meter program. The new
owners used the irrigation system during the dry summer, assuming they would get credits from the meter. Instead
they ended up with a large bill and were asking to have the bill reduced to 2,000 cu ft usage - similar to the prior
quarter. Barb noted they have recently submitted the necessary paperwork for the deduct meter program and paid
the annual fee. She clarified the meter was already installed but it was never active. The meter has also been
inspected and they received the plumbing permit. Paula confirmed Jennyfer Cabral was told by the seller that they
would receive credits for the irrigation meter usage. The Commission discussed the request and Brett pointed out
the usage never went down the pipe. Dave suggested discussing how to prevent this issue for future homeowners
and Brett suggested adding it to a future agenda. Barb noted the credit on the bill would be for $903.34.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To change the bill for 99 Leominster Road to 2,000 cu ft usage for $273.20.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and Brett-aye.
Commission agreed to take the next agenda item out of order since it was not yet time for the 3rd appointment.
Request for credit on Invoice for New Ownership for 47 Whalom Rd. - Brett stated the new owners received a
minimum charge bill of $115 and would like to prorate the bill to one month. They purchased the house on 9/14/22
and the quarterly bill was for July to September, even though they only owned the house for 16 days. Mike
questioned whether the prorating was done at the signing. Dave asked if they discussed changing the policy
previously and Barb replied the Commission discussed changing the policy but it is waiting on public hearings for
===PAGE 2===
policy updates. Barb noted the prior owners paid through 9/15/22 but the new owners were billed the minimum
charge. The Commission discussed the request and Brett asked Barb to add the discussion of a new policy on a
future agenda. Paula added that this is a common occurrence with house sales. Dave suggested a motion to change
the bill for 47 Whalom Road to 2 weeks but Barb noted that the Commission had discussed this previously and had
agreed to prorate by month as it is easier using that method.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To prorate the bill for 47 Whalom Road to 1 month.
Discussion: Mike questioned if this approval would bring in a lot of new requests and asked to discuss it at the next
meeting. Barb stated they have already approved several of these requests and Mike replied he is ok with seconding
the motion. Barb added they will have a large discussion for all the policy changes, which will include the updates for
the Fitchburg Chapter 147. The policy changes were held up until the Bylaw was passed and approved by the
Attorney General. They will need to discuss all the changes at a future meeting. The Commission agreed and voted.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
Kevin O'Brien- Pond View 40B - Brett began the discussion by stating "we don't believe that this project will go
through as it is outside of the Sewer Service Area and the ZBA does not have the authority to overrule Town
Meeting". Having said that, Brett added they are willing to discuss Kevin's point of view and where he is coming from.
Kevin thanked the Board for meeting with him and said on a prelimary basis, he wanted to meet with Water and
Sewer to discuss the most logical place to put the lines if approved. Barb screen shared the proposed sewer layout
provided by Mr. O Brien. Kevin explained the proposed route for sewer and water via Howard, West Townsend Rd.
and Chase Ra. to 2A. They have also discussed going via Beal St to Leominster and he would be willing to discuss
other ideas. Brett stated they will need detailed engineering plans and a peer review. Dave suggested showing
another drawing for going to Leominster. Brett added if they go to Mass. Ave, there would be a larger number of
people who may want to connect. Dave noted that there was a massive ledge issue approaching the 2A intersection
by the gas station, so Beal St. would be the best avenue to go. Barb agreed with Dave's point and noted that if it
goes on Beal, there would be several streets for future residential connections. Bill agreed with the flow going to
Leominster via Beal but would want to see some test pits/borings to see where the ledge is. Kevin noted with a 40B,
they do not do a final drawing until the ZBA approves or disapproves the project. If the ZBA approves it, he will meet
with the Commission to decide the final design. In regard to ledge, Kevin would have a company do pre-drilling prior
to blasting to determine where the ledge is. Brett pointed out that they cannot request a peer review until they have a
final plan and Kevin agreed. Dave noted they need to address the fact it is outside of the sewer district, and they
would need to create a new district- not just run pipes. Kevin replied his attorney and the town's attorney have
discussed this and he believes they concluded it did not have to go to town meeting. He suggested consulting with
Town Counsel as to whether the ZBA has the authority to step into the Commission's shoes to vote on it. Kevin
would then want to come to the next Commission meeting. Barb added that the peer review would need to look at
capacities and flows, getting as much detail as possible for their review. Kevin replied they do not need details for the
40B, and the Commission would need to talk to engineering to see if it makes sense. Dave noted a big hurdle for this
large project is the agreements with Leominster and Fitchburg that would need to be re-negotiated. Kevin quoted
capacity figures for Fitchburg and Leominster and added if it goes through, it would be a year before it goes online,
leaving time for negotiating. Paula suggested one option would be a concept plan of the proposed layout, with
estimated number of pump stations and diameter of the pipes. The Commission could clarify with Town Counsel
what would be a reasonable expectation for a plan. Kevin stated Environment One (E/One) will be doing another
proposal with the 40B and houses. He added the engineers went out a year ago, to do a detailed survey down
Howard St. to the gas station at the 2A intersection. Kevin said there are 2 questions - is the area they are proposing
logical to everyone and can the ZBA step into the shoes of Sewer Commission to approve or disapprove. Dave
asked Kevin if he had done better drawings, why hasn't the Commission received them. Kevin replied that
Environment One does not need the drawings because it is a force main. He had drawings done to allow for a gravity
system, which would allow others, such Lanni's farm, to tie in. This would be discussed after the approval. Dave
===PAGE 3===
stated he is most concerned about the sewer district and negotiations with Fitchburg and Leominster on IMA. Barb
added the Commission is waiting on a plan and peer review. It will be the attorneys that will work it through. Kevin
said the next ZBA hearing will deal with the traffic peer review and then move on to the sewer and water discussion.
Barb stated the ZBA speaks for all town departments, but the Commission is dealing with the increase to the Sewer
Service Area - which would need to go before the Town Meeting. Kevin disagreed and said the 40B states it does
not have to go to town meeting. Brett summarized that they need to talk to. Town Counsel, and they would appreciate
a far more detailed plan. Dave added the chair of the ZBA asked the Commissioners to attend the 12/14 meeting and
Kevin asked to be at the 12/13 Sewer Commission meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
DPW Director update on Maintenance Plan - Bill noted the Nov. 2020 Sewer Maintenance Plan recommended
cleaning/jetting 12-20% of the gravity sewers annually. Any trouble spots would be done more frequently. He said
there are 16.5 miles of gravity sewer in town and 12% would be about 2 miles. Most of the gravity sewers are in the
center of town, the Whalom area, the west and south-west areas of town. Bill put together a spreadsheet to keep
track of cleaning annually. He contacted 3 jetting companies for quotes -Wayne's Drains ($2,800/day), Rapid Flow
($2,500/day) and Clean Basins (no response yet). Bill plans on using all 3 companies to clean 2 miles of sewer,
focusing on Town Hall, Public Safety Building, and parts of Sunny Hill with big 90° angles. He will see which
company responds and performs the best. Bill noted there is $64K in the budget to use. He is holding off on I/l
repairs and manholes, pending the ARPA funding. Chad Empey (CTE) cleaned the pits at all of the pump stations,
replaced leaking seals at Mass 1 and replaced the control panel at Leominster Rd. He reported that Flow
Assessment will be out 11/30 to service the flow meters. Dave asked about generator maintenance and Bill replied
he will check with Chad Empey. Barb noted they have done a major PM service on all of the generators, and she can
send Commissioners extensive reports on repairs to the generators if they want. Also Al (CTE) will be attending the
next meeting.
Whalom Area I/l investigations- Brett noted they discussed investigating the pipes and what they are able to do
about right of entry. Barb stated she talked to Town Counsel and Bill regarding the project and right of entry form.
The Commission needs to update the policies as to what they will do if they find infiltrated pipes. There also needs to
be a plan of action (i.e. resident assistance, loan program, resident full responsibility, etc). Town Counsel was not
comfortable doing a small sampling of homes unless there is a well-defined policy for what happens if issues are
discovered. Barb added that Fitchburg had some good wording of requirements for residents to keep their pipes in
good working order and may suggest that wording for our policy updates to be discussed with other changes.
ARPA Funding- Barb reported the Select Board had ARPA funding on their 11/8 agenda. John had suggested a
Commissioner attend a Select Board meeting and speak on the needs of the Commission.
Q2 Commitment $246,015.25 -Barb reported the bills were sent out 11/10 and she asked Commissioners to come
in to sign it.
Motion: Mike N.
To approve the Q2 Commitment of $246,015.25.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and Brett-aye.
Minutes of 11/8/22 -
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N
To approve the minutes for 11/8/22.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
Business Manager Report - Victuallers List- Barb noted the Select Board is working on the Victuallers List and
Paula has taken this on. There are 2 people with overdue bills and Elaine (Select Board) will contact them. FY23
Recap was submitted to the state. CTE attendance- Al will attend the 12/13 meeting. Flow Assessment will be
doing inspections and calibrations on 11/30. Invoices- Fitchburg Usage- $18,872.69, Leominster Quarterly (6/26-
9/25)- $85,404.49--a big decrease from prior quarters but probably due to the dry summer and Mead, Talerman -
$76.43 for October (Pond View Commons). The Commission agreed to the invoices.
Action Items- none
===PAGE 4===
Public Comment - Dave remarked that Brett did a good job chairing. He also thanked Paula and Barb for their work
on the new billing program. Paula reported she can now import the water readings, bills from Fitchburg and
Leominster directly into Access. She also created a macro to export that data into Munis which eliminates all the
manual data entry. She can also import the irrigation readings directly into Access. Brett and Barb will not be at the
next meeting. Brett wished John continued healing and hoped he would be back soon.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
December 13, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
December 14, 2022 - ZBA Hearing - Commissioners asked to attend
December 27, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Dave M.
To adjourn at 7:35pm.
Second: Mike N
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
Tene F. Paney,
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Expansion of Use application for David Moffatt
Sewer Bylaws Expansion of Use clause read by Barb
Kevin O'Brien's proposed pressure sewer layout for O'Brien subdivision
