===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 01/11/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Deveikis and Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Absent: Chair- Dave MacDonald
Guests: Richard Blanchflower (5 Chestnut St.) and Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy)
John opened the meeting at 6:01 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
APPOINTMENTS -
Rich Blanchflower, 5 Chestnut St. and Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy)- Greg stated Rich had gone before the
Commission a couple years ago with a request to add the property to the Sewer Service Area (SSA) for a large
residential development. Rich later withdrew the request but has now modified his plans for the property. Greg
shared the GIS map for the property which shows the small section of frontage on Chestnut St. that is currently the
only portion of his property in the SSA. Originally, Rich proposed a 40-unit development on the site, but now wants
to use the majority of the back of the property for a horse rescue facility, for which he is seeking grant money. The
equestrian facility would be staffed and need water & sewer. Since the soil has a very shallow depth to ledge, there is
no place to put in a septic system and it would need to have a sewer connection. The applicant would also like to
add a much smaller residential development in the front of the property, and it would be advantageous to connect to
sewer. Barb noted that the property in the front of where the equestrian facility would be is 733 Mass. Ave. Brett said
he is open to the residential development and an equestrian facility. Greg estimated there would be about 20
residential, in line with current zoning and wetlands regulations. John inquired about test holes and Rick replied he
went out with Whitman & Bingham for test holes. They hit hard pan ledge 2'-2.5' everywhere and in front it is only 8"-
they would have to blast. John suggested providing the Board of Health with the results of the test holes. Mike D.
asked about the size of the Equestrian Barn and Rick replied it could be 2,000 to 5,000 sq. ft. Barb confirmed the
property on Mass Ave. has been bettered and Greg confirmed there is a manhole there. Mike D. suggested
discussing sewer expansion on Chestnut St. as a future agenda item. Mike N. stated he is open to the idea but would
want more details on the size of the farm & residential development. Brett asked about hitting ledge when getting a
line in and Greg replied they will hit ledge right away. They may want to look at a low-pressure system and extend
the system with a force main. Rob said the need has been demonstrated for sewer and he would be in favor of
adding it to the SSA. John noted the next step is for the town to vote to add the property to the SSA. Greg said it
would be helpful to know if the Commission is in favor of the plan. Barb clarified the first step is the SSA expansion
approval at Town Meeting and the Commission can recommend or not recommend approval. Once approved, they
would still need to present the plan to the other committees in Town. John noted they can recommend going ahead
with adding it to the SSA, but that it does not automatically approve the connection - they are 2 separate processes.
The Commission agreed that they are open to the idea but not ready to take a vote on a motion. Greg said it was
good feedback and their next step is to get it on the Town Meeting warrant. They will also work on developing some
concept plans.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund Policy) - Rob noted Barb
reached out to Fitchburg and Leominster for a meeting. Fitchburg will be hiring a new person, as the Interim
commissioner is also leaving, but a meeting with Leominster has been set up. Rob reported he went through the
document for the use of funds, which shows money is available for water/sewer projects. He is not certain if they can
do the pump station projects but may be eligible under a SRF (Clean Waters State Revolving Funds) project. At
present, they would need more clarification on what they can do. John asked Barb to add the discussion to future
agendas and asked if there is a deadline for applying. Barb replied the Town Manager has asked for a list of
suggested projects to be submitted to the Select Board. Rob added that the document notes costs are obligated by
12/31/24 and to be expended by 12/31/26.
===PAGE 2===
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance- Barb reported she just received input from Adam (Town Counsel) on Fitchburg's
requested changes and she will put it on the next agenda.
Upland/Eastern Ave/White Street extensions- Barb noted she also just received the approved contract from Town
Counsel and will be sending it to Wright Pierce. If they are ok with the contract, we can move ahead. If Wright Pierce
makes any changes, it will need to go back to Town Counsel. Wright Pierce is preparing to start the borings in 2
weeks -around the 24th or 25'h. John confirmed if Wright Pierce agrees with counsel changes, they are good to go
and he asked Barb to keep Dave updated.
Search for Assistant Business Manager- Rob said they interviewed a few candidates last week and have another
interview coming up with a candidate with Munis experience. The position has been readvertised on the state
municipal website.
FY21 Annual Report request- Barb reported she received the notice from the Select Board office for the Annual
Report for FY21 (ending 6/30/21) The Commission discussed, and Jane agreed to put a draft together for Barb.
Minutes - 11/9/21 meeting
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the minutes for 11/9/21.
Mike N. abstained as he was not present for the 11/9 meeting.
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike D.-aye and John-aye.
Minutes - 12/21/21 meeting
Motion: Brett R.
To approve the minutes for 12/21/21.
Mike D. abstained as he was not present for the 12/21 meeting.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye.
Business Manager Report - Grease Trap reports- Barb noted the 1st Tuesday reports were due 1/4/22. She has
received a few and will be reminding the others. FY23 Budget will be on the 1/25 agenda. Barb will be starting the
Q3 billing about the same time. There were no Invoices to review.
Public Comment - none
The Commission discussed the in-person meeting on 1/25. Barb noted masks are required in all Town buildings. The
Commission agreed that if masks were required, that it was preferred to continue meeting on Zoom.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
January 25, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall, 2nd floor Meeting Room, 17 Main St. or Zoom
February 8, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:48pm.
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike D., Brett-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Care A canley
Jane L. Ranle
Minutes Clerk
