===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 1/25/2022 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Member: Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Rob Oliva, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Mike Deveikis
Dave opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the
Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Brett thanked Jane for the nice job on the annual report.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb noted that work on the Q3 billing starts soon.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
FY23 Draft Sewer Budget- Barb reviewed the highlights since the Commission had received the draft shortly before the
start of the meeting. She notes that FY23 Revenues are projected as $1,094,617, which is an increase of $26K over FY22.
Purchase of Service numbers haven't been adjusted from FY22 for the Commission to review and discuss at the next
meeting. Payroll reflects updates but will need a new salary grid from the Personnel Committee for vote at Town Meeting to
be final. Since Barb is at the top of her grade, they will be going to town meeting to ask for a cost-of-living (COLA) increase
and the Accountant had recommended putting an estimated COLA in the 'reserve line until Town Meeting. The Assistant
position is in the budget for $25,310 and she is hopeful the position will be filled before 7/1 so the amount is for a full year.
The Utilities are about the same as last year. As for Other Expenses, Barb put in $50K for the Capital plan for now but will
be a topic of discussion. Leominster usage was estimated at $500K for FY22 and right now it is projected to be about
$484K. Barb reported the FY22 budget is looking good right now. Dave asked if they will be putting any money back into
Retained Earnings for FY22 and Barb replied it is hard to tell at this point. We are 'in the red' (expenses over revenues) right
now but we're about to do the Q3 billing so revenues only reflect 50% for year, while some yearly expenses have already
been posted. In regard to the Maintenance spending for FY22, Rob said he still has money to spend in the spring for
projects such as jetting and routine camera-ing. Dave asked Rob to look at what he would need in FY23. John said the
pump stations are a priority - especially the Dana St. station. Brett said the maintenance program is incredibly important,
and Mike N. agreed that the upkeep of the pump stations is at the heart of it all, plus preventive maintenance which leads to
less callouts. In regard to the Empey (CTE) contract, Barb noted they are going into year 3 and there will be an increase,
which was not noted on the FY23 draft yet. Rob reported the maintenance was done on the generators. Barb noted they had
a 1-year contract for the generator maintenance and AI (CTE) is working on that. John said since CTE is heading into year
3, we should plan to start work on the new contract well ahead of time. Dave suggested looking at extending the contract.
Rob stated that we would need to discuss this with the Town Manager.
ARPA funding- Rob reported that the ARPA funding for a sewer project would need to be a SRF-type project to get high
priority. He added that Heather (Town Manager) has scheduled a Zoom meeting on 1/25 with a consultant regarding the
ARPA funding that he will be attending and suggested having a Commissioner sit in on the meeting.
Upland/Eastern Ave/White Street Engineering Design - Barb received the Wright Pierce contract, approved by Town
Counsel. She added that the Commission needs to vote approve the contract tonight, and requested that at least 3
Commissioners come into the office to sign off on the document in person so she can send it to Wright Pierce.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the Wright Pierce contract for $13,200 for work on engineering design of the Upland/Eastern Ave/ White
Street/ Maple Parkway extension.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave-aye.
Fitchburg Sewer Use Ordinance (Chapter 147) - Barb reported that we'd received notes back from Town Counsel and
that there were 2 sections of our regulations that Town Counsel is looking for the Commission's input. Barb read Counsel's
comments on Section 6-3 (Criminal Penalties), Fitchburg(Jeff Murawski) comment #31. The Commission also needs to
accept Counsel's changes to 4-3 (Discharge Documents), Fitchburg's comments 18&19, where he suggests reducing it to
one paragraph, giving the authority to the receiving City for Discharge Documents on SIU's(Significant Industrial Users). If
the Sewer Commission approves the changes, it will go back to Fitchburg for their approval. Barb added that Counsel had
noted that he is a lawyer and not a technical expert and and that if we wanted advice on the technical aspects we should
seek a technical consultant. Barb noted that Jeff and now Mark (Interim Deputy) are the technical people that will make sure
we stay by the book and was not sure we want to delay it further. The Commission agreed to vote to accept the changes.
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Brett R.
===PAGE 2===
To accept Sections 4-3 (Discharge Documents) and 6-3 (Criminal Penalties), as Counsel has recommended by the
Fitchburg Chapter 147 regulations.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave- aye.
Barb said she will send it to Fitchburg, and once they accept it, the regulation changes will need to be accepted at the next
Town Meeting. At the same time, Barb recommended working on other policies that the Commission wants updated. The
Commission agreed to discuss easements, reconnection fees, grease traps annual fees, final read invoice proration and
whatever else Rob, Barb or the Commission come up with. Dave asked the Commission to come up with ideas and send to
Barb who will put together a list for the next agenda.
Annual Town Meeting Warrant - Barb noted the warrant is open and articles need to be submitted by 3/21. The Town
Meeting is 5/7. The Commission will have the regular budget articles, Policy/Regulation changes, By-law changes
(easements) and the citizen's petition to expand the Sewer Service Area at 5 Chestnut St. The Draft Annual Report that
was done by Jane was sent to the Commission last minute for their review. Barb will be put on 2/8 meeting agenda. Search
for Assistant Business Manager- Barb reported the opening was posted with the Mass Municipal website. They had a
good candidate come forward. Also the position will now be under the Clerical Union, not the SAP. This change should not
hold up the process. Barb and Rob have been in on the interviews.
Town Caucus March 2022 for Town Election 5/21/22 openings - John Reynolds (June 2020 -May 2022)and Mike
Nault(May 2021-May 2022) are up. Brett and Mike are up 2023, and Dave is up 2024. Dave also said he would like
someone else to be Chair after the election. The Town Caucus is in March and we'll have a 3- and 1-year term open.
Minutes of 1/11/22- Brett noted the 5 Chestnut Street proposal was done 1 year ago but withdrawn before fall town
meeting. Barb noted Greg Roy stated in the meeting that it was 2 years ago and that's why the minutes reflect that. The
Commission left the statement as is. Commission confirmed attendees, Dave was absent.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the minutes for 1/11/22.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye. Dave-abstained.
Business Manager Report - Grease Trap 1st Tuesday reports - Barb reported there is only one establishment that still
owes December logs and she will pursue them. Invoices - Fitchburg Usage - $15,094.25 and Mead, Talerman - $1,082.26
(with the work on Fitchburg Regulation changes and Wright Pierce contract -total 6.1 hours.) The Commission agreed to
pay the invoices.
Barb also noted Munis will be changing its name to Enterprise Resource Planning -(ERP) starting in February.
Action Items- none
Public Comment - none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
February 8, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
February 22, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave- aye.
Respectuly submited,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts: Fitchburg Review Notes w Counsel recommendations #18-19-31 for 012522
