===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 6/14/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre,
Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk- Mike Deveikis
Guests: Jaime Rheault (Haley Ward for 711 Mass. Ave)
John opened the meeting at 6:14pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave thanked everyone who participated in the candlelight vigil on 6/10 for "Crimes Against
Victims-the Shootings Have to Stop." He also thanked Tom Alonzo and Todd Dwyer for their great speeches and the
vigil was recorded for Lunenburg Access viewing.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb noted this was the first meeting for the new officers and welcomed John as the new
chair, Brett as Vice Chair and Mike D. as Clerk. Brett and Mike D. were not able to attend. She also thanked Dave
for serving as Chair for the last couple years.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
711 Mass Ave project plan review-Jaime Rheault (Haley Ward) John reported they received the full-size plans
and the DPW Director (Bill Bernard) reviewed them. Bill was satisfied that all the comments were incorporated. John
asked for a motion to accept them.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the project plan reviews for 711 Mass. Ave.
Discussion: Dave asked for clarification on who approved the plan reviews. Barb replied Bill approved the Graves
Review and Rob Oliva's past comments. They were satisfied all the issues were addressed in the new plans. Barb
also confirmed the flows will go to Leominster and there is capacity for it.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Jamie said that he appreciated the review and the quick turnaround. John asked when the project would start and
Jamie replied that they have applied to Mass Highway for the curb cut permit and anticipated the project will start in
the fall. Jamie added that the new company is Haley Ward and they are in the same location in Leominster.
Privilege Fee Assessment 17 Highland St.-Barb stated that this is for a connection coming off the extension to 42
Highland St. and Bob Proctor did the connection. The privilege fee goes into effect because the property had not
previously been a bettered property. The Commission will need to sign off on the assessment of $11,551.47, which
will be sent to the Assessors, allowing the Town to bill and collect the monies. Barb asked the Commission to vote to
assess the fee and for all to come in to the office to sign the document. Barb will be sending out a letter giving them
30 days to pay in full or to have it added to their tax bill. Barb also stated that it is a low pressure E-One System and
the connection was done.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the Privilege Fee Assessment of $ 11,551.47 for 17 Highland St.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Upland/Eastern/White/Maple extension project mailing- Barb reported 64 letters went out on 6/1 and they have
19 responses. It is split - 10 no and 9 yes. Barb and Paula discussed going to SRF funding to try to reduce the price.
Residents have until 7/17 to respond.
Meetings format- 6/28 - John said he would prefer Zoom meetings for a little longer. Dave and Mike agreed to stay
with Zoom for the 6/28 meeting. Barb noted Gov. Baker had 7/15 as the cutoff for Zoom meetings.
Minutes for 5/31/22
Motion: Mike N.
To accept the minutes for 5/31/22.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
===PAGE 2===
Business Manager Report - CTE Contract- Barb had a small change of the bond amount to $42,721.72, from the
prior amount of $41,053.02. (John lost signal but came back on after a couple minutes to ensure there was a
quorum.)
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the CTE Contract with an increase of approximately $1,200, to the bond amount of $42,721.72
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
I Forno project status (permanent detached structure)- Dave reported that he watched the 6/13 Public Hearing
and called Casey (Building Inspector) in the morning. He said the tent was temporary under the Cares Act but that
that has now expired. He added that the new structure that they will be building is a Butler metal building with a 4'
foundation, slab and glass in the front. Dave questioned whether it changed the seating requirements and capacity.
He added Casey said he has not approved any plans, so no permit has been issued. There is also an issue with the
parking lot because it will take up a lot of space. John questioned what it means for usage and Dave replied that a
plumber will need to calculate. It may require an external grease trap. Their capacity is now 135 but if it increases to
175, it may kick in another level of water increase. John noted their existing grease trap is substantial. Barb
confirmed they already have an external grease trap and when Sean Patrick's did the remodel, they put in an
oversized tank. John added they also have internal traps, and the tank was always clean when it was pumped. Tour
of pump stations- Barb noted Al Packard will give a tour of 2 stations on 6/15 at 8:30am, starting at the Dana St.
station. Grease Trap program status- Barb reported everyone is on schedule for external pump outs and there are
3 1st Tuesday reports owed, but they have been contacted. Paula will be working on sending out the annual renewal
letters next month and confirmed that they will just be billing the non-compliant accounts. Barb also has new ID
cards for the Commissioners. She also noted Michael-Ray (new Select Board Chair) has requested input from
committees to be announced at Select Board meetings.
Action Items-none
Public Comment - Dave congratulated John on his first meeting. Barb noted the budget closes out 7/1 and it still
looks good. She added that there are a couple projects going through as Capital Improvements- Weld Generator
requested a new water pump and an injection pump for the generators. Also they need to do the 3rd control panel
because the probe technology is now obsolete. Al (Packard) had said that the new panels are working very well.
Barb will have a budget update for the end of fiscal year at the next meeting. Dave suggested having the new DPW
Director at the next meeting to discuss the Maintenance Plan projects for Fiscal 2023 and Barb will add it to the
agenda.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
June 28, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation via Zoom.
July 12, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, TBD
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn at 6:42 pm.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Your h. fantay
Minutes Clerk
