===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb announced the Town caucus was 3/14. John Reynolds and Mike Nault were nominated for the
Sewer Commission open terms on the May Town Election. Barb added Paula Bertram has joined the office as the new
Assistant to the Business Manager and is working out very well.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
FY23 Draft Sewer Budget - Barb sent out the FY22 Budget update and a copy of the FinCom presentation to all. The
Commission agreed it all looked good. Barb said there is no update yet on a new DPW Director.
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles- Barb reported the 4 warrant articles were submitted and accepted by the Select
Board office. She also received a confirmation from the Select Board office that the 5 Chestnut Street Citizens Petition was
filed requesting expansion of the Sewer Service Area to encompass their entire parcel. It will be on the Town Meeting
warrant. Dave asked if they would be coming before the Commission prior to Town Meeting. Barb replied that they did
come and the Commission had recommended that they get an article on the Warrant. The Commission discussed and
agreed they did not need to come back before Town Meeting as long as the project is what they presented previously. Barb
will contact them to see if they have any updates. Dave noted the Town Meeting will be May 7h at 9am at the Middle
School.
Upland/White St. extension exploration project- Barb noted that the quote for gravity sewer was pricey and Wright Pierce
also proposed the low-pressure system as an alternative. Barb added that the cost for burying the gravity lines on the
proposal was $273K but only $7,800 for the low-pressure alternative. Barb asked Wright Pierce for clarification on the
pricing. The low-pressure means that they would not have to dig down so far. John stated that they need to make sure
everyone knows what it cost to put an E-One system in. He added that they are quite tall and if residents need to dig down 8
feet for the pumps and they hit ledge, it adds quite a cost. They also need to add a doughnut to the bottom, which adds
another 12" to the diameter to be dug. The Commission needs to make people aware of the issues. Dave noted that the
Stone Farm village units have the pumps on pads in the cellar. John offered to contact the E-One representative to get
updated pricing and the Commission agreed. John stated that there is an alternative to E-One pumps that are sold by Flygt
pumps. Barb also noted that the pricing to our residents would depend on if they are combining
projects(Upland/Eastern/White/Maple Pkwy) or doing separate streets. We had been waiting on preliminary costs before
doing a resident survey and sending information out to residents. Barb added that Kevin Olson (Wright Pierce) had offered
to meet with the Commission to answer questions and Dave asked Barb to see if he could come to the next meeting. John
said that he could also talk to Bob Proctor. Brett suggested looking into any new technology options. Dave noted a former
project behind Walmart proposed running a gravity line down Maple Parkway to White St. but the project fell through.
Minutes for 2/22/22 (Brett, John and Dave were present)
Motion: John R.
To accept the minutes for 2/22/22.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, John-aye and Dave- aye.
Minutes for 3/8/22 (all present)
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John
To accept the minutes for 3/8/22.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.- aye, John-aye and Dave- aye.
John asked if a Commissioner found an error in the minutes that have been approved, can the minutes be reviewed. Dave
replied it can be brought up in the next meeting and reviewed.
===PAGE 2===
process. Barb asked for a Commission vote.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: John R.
To allow Barb to send out the non-compliance letter to Il Forno.
Discussion: Mike N. asked for clarification if they are waiting until later in the week to see if it is pumped out. Barb said she
will wait until the next Monday before sending the letter. Dave noted in other towns, they have the pump companies send the
reports. Barb replied that is what usually happens, but it is the owner's responsibility to get the report sent in.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.- aye, John-aye and Dave- aye.
Invoices: Barb reviewed the invoices with the Commission: Fitchburg-$20,073.53 (based on flows) and Mead, Talerman -
$988.02 (Bylaws & regulations in late Feb/March) and as long as the Commission is okay with them, she'll proceed with
payment. Barb noted that she'd received an email from Dave Passios (Green Committee) regarding any projects
appropriate for a Green Community Grant. The committee's main focus for this grant application is to get funding for
converting streetlights to LED. Barb talked to Al (CTE) who suggested a solar panel for each of the pump stations and also
SCADA unit. John said that he is not keen on relying on battery backup technology yet. Barb said that she will let Dave
Passios know that they will get more information. Dave asked if the flow meters are powered by solar? Barb replied that one
is.
Action Items- Dave asked for update on the 40B development. Barb replied she has no update, but the developer had
asked for a copy of the Commission's concerns. She will check with Adam and add it to the next agenda.
Public Comment- none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
April 12, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
April 26, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:38pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.- aye, John-aye and Dave- aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Minutes Clerk
