===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 5/31/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Deveikis
and Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Dave opened the meeting at 6:05 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance. Dave introduced the new DPW Director, Bill Bernard and thanked him for attending the
meeting. Bill replied he is glad to be working for the town of Lunenburg. Dave asked Barb to set up a tour of the
pump stations and asked Commissioners to let Barb know if they want to attend.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave asked Barb to screen-share an invitation to a candlelight vigil for school safety on 6/10 at
6:30pm (Passios campus).
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb congratulated John Reynolds and Mike Nault for being elected to new 3-year terms.
Dave thanked John and Mike for volunteering for the town. Barb added they are very happy to have the new DPW
Director, Bill Bernard at the meeting. She also noted the pool filling and new lawn waiver credit information is on the
website. John suggested that next year we add information about getting an irrigation meter. (Brett joined the
meeting.)
CURRENT BUSINESS-
Election of Officers- Dave stated he has been honored to be the chair for the past 2 years. The Commission went
through a lot of changes in personnel and management companies, plus dealing with issues around Covid. He is
proud to call everyone friends, but he is stepping down as Chair, to allow someone else to take over. John asked
that if he is nominated and elected to a position, that it not take effect until the next meeting.
Chair: Mike N. nominated John R. and Mike D. seconded.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye. (John abstained.)
John Reynolds elected as Chair.
Vice Chair: Dave nominated Brett R. and Mike N. seconded.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John-aye, and Dave-aye. (Brett abstained.)
Brett Ramsden elected as Vice-Chair.
Clerk: Dave nominated Mike D. and Mike N. seconded.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye, and Dave-aye. (Mike N. abstained.)
Mike Deveikis elected as Clerk.
Dave confirmed that he is staying on the Commission, and he congratulated the new officers. He also asked Barb to
have ID cards made for new officers.
5 Chestnut discussion-Barb talked to Counsel about the bisecting of the parcel, and Counsel said the bylaws allow
it. Dave noted the property owner wants to build a horse hospital and half of the property is in wetlands. The article
to amend the Sewer Service Area was passed over at Town Meeting. Dave questioned if it was right for the town to
cut the property in half to control growth and asked if it needs to be in the deed. Barb replied that Counsel said
buyers need to do due diligence and that it would be a lot of work updating the deeds. Mike D. asked if buyers would
be aware that a sewer stub existed. Barb replied that by virtue of a betterment, they would know that sewer was
available on the street. Barb added that the town map would show that only part of the property was in the Sewer
Service Area. Dave suggested meeting with Counsel and Barb said she would send out Counsel's input on the
question. Dave asked Barb to go over the issue with Bill and they could look at it again. Brett noted that if he was
buying a property, with a betterment, that it wouldn't occur to him that he might not be able to connect it. The
Commission discussed properties with betterments that may not be able to connect, and Dave suggested having
Counsel come to a meeting. John asked who determines the order for the articles and Barb replied the Town
Manager and Select Board.
Year 3 CTE 0& M contract- Barb sent the Year 3 contract to the Commissioners. If it is acceptable to all, she asked
for a vote and for Commissioners to come in to sign it. The 1-year contract is for $85,443.44 and starts 7/1/22. Dave
noted CTE is a very excellent contractor, and it is an honor to approve the contract.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
===PAGE 2===
To approve the Year 3 O&M contract with CTE.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye, Mike D.-aye and Dave-aye.
Q4 Commitment- Barb reported the Q4 bills went out on 5/19 for a total of $275,803.50. She asked that the
Commissioners vote to accept and come in to sign the Commitment.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the Q4 Commitment for $275,803.50.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Barb noted 2 inserts were added to each bill to advise on pool filling and the rate increase. John asked Barb if she
received any calls about the rate increase and she replied that just 1 person called to ask if the increase was
reflected in the current bill which it was not.
Minutes of 5/3/22-
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the minutes from 5/3/22.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Minutes of 5/10/22-
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John R.
To approve the minutes from 5/10/22.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye. (Mike D. did not vote as he did not attend)
Business Manager Report - FY22 Budget- Barb reported the FY22 budget has 1 month left and it is looking good,
after the billing went out. They are ending the fiscal year in a solid place. They received the back betterments from
Meadowwoods, which will be a good boost to the Retained Earnings. They anticipated a loss of $343K but have a
surplus of $288K, which is a gain of about $600K for Retained Earnings. There is another estimated year of loss due
to more debt expense than betterment revenues and then it will improve. Dave suggested discussing a flat rate
increase each year to cover increases from Fitchburg and Leominster.
Extension project mailing- Barb reported they have been working with Wright Pierce and the Board of Health to
confirm a mailing list for Upland/Eastern and White/Maple Parkway. They will be sending out 64 letters shortly and
the betterment figure will still be $57K. Also, Paula created an online Survey Monkey so residents can respond
online. Dave noted the engineers estimated $57K for the betterment. Brett added that the plastic pipes that they use
have gone up 300% in cost and Dave noted other cost increases. Dave received a call from a resident at the corner
of Pratt and West Street. He told her that she would need to put in an E1 pump to connect to the sewer and to
contact Bob Proctor for pricing. Barb added that the website has a list of licensed drainlayers who can provide
estimates also.
711 Mass Ave project status- Barb reported that the engineers have updated the plan based on peer review
comments. Jamie will be bringing in the plans for Bill Bernard to review and hope to have them on the 6/14 agenda.
IL Forno update- Barb talked to Mike at l Forno who said that the seating capacity will be the same as the tent
setup so there is no increase in capacity. She hasn't been able to get information from Casey (Building Inspector) or
Hannigan(engineer for the project). Dave said that he wants to hear what Casey has to say and clarification on what
they mean by a permanent structure.
Wright Pierce contract for SSO plan-Barb stated the SSO (Sanitary Sewer Overflow) notification plan is required
by the state by 7/1. She and Bill have a video call with Kevin (Wright Pierce) and his SSO person to go over the
initial review and hopes to have something to share by the next meeting.
Grease Traps- Barb reported the April logs all in and Paula has been working on those who are due for pump outs.
Invoices- Fitchburg Usage - $19,174.13 (monthly), Leominster-$138,839.20 (Q4-12/26-3/25)- which was about
$20K higher than the last Q4 figure, and Mead, Talerman - $775.75 - for Wright Pierce contract and Sewer Bylaw
work. The Commission agreed to pay them. John asked about meeting with Leominster concerning 1/l. Discussion
===PAGE 3===
followed regarding availability of money to work on Whalom. Dave thought that it would be good to have Paula look
into ARPA funds or Build Back Better money.
Website- Barb will be doing updates on the website about bills going out and results of Town Meeting. She also
announced that Michael Ray Jeffreys was elected as the new Select Board Chair.
Meeting format discussion- Dave suggested having hybrid meetings. Barb added Heather will be getting
equipment for hybrid (not live but recorded) meetings at the DPW. Hybrid meetings have some attending in person
and others using Zoom. The Town Hall already has a hybrid setup and meetings will be live. Barb said the Governor
has only allowed zoom until a certain time. The prior Remote Participation policy required a quorum and the chair in
house. Dave noted that the office is upgrading computer systems and Barb added that the plan is to have everything
on the cloud- rather than on servers. Everyone's emails will be transitioned to lunenburgma.gov email addresses.
The Commission discussed the format for the next meetings. John said the hybrid meeting would work better for him
for now. The June 14th will be a Zoom meeting and they will discuss the 6/28 at the next meeting.
Public Comment - Dave noted the Water Department did an excellent job in fixing the water main break at Hickory
Hills and also said the DPW is doing a great job on the roads. Bill said he would pass it on to the department.
Barb thanked Dave for being the chair since 2020 and all through Covid. Dave said he is very proud of all they have
accomplished
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
June 14, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation via Zoom
June 28, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, TBD
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 7:03pm
Second: John R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike D.-aye, Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Brett-aye and Dave-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
You h. Pandey
Handouts:
School Safety Candlelight Vigil Invitation for 6/10 screen-shared by Barb.
