===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 10/11/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Clerk- Mike Deveikis
Guests: Marc Bernstein (44 Northfield Road)
John opened the meeting at 6:02 pm. and did a roll call of attendees.
PUBLIC COMMENT & ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
APPOINTMENTS - Public Hearing for a request by Marc Bernstein for a waiver under Section 10 of the
Lunenburg Sewer Bylaw for property at 44 Northfield Road, to allow a sewer connection in an easement
across adjoining property at 34 Northfield Road. - John opened the public hearing and noted the request was
received on 9/15/22 from the new owners of 44 Northfield Rd. The office received the easement plan and documents
on 9/22 and the meeting was posted on 9/30. Marc Bernstein noted he purchased the property at # 44 in late
July/early August and was not aware of the situation with the sewer lines. When the owner/builder at # 34 started to
dig the trench for his sewer connection, he broke through the connection for #44 and had to repair it. The owner of
#34 has no issues with the easement request and they gathered the documents necessary with Barb's help, which
was greatly appreciated. The 2 properties had been 1 lot but was divided into 2 lots, prior to his purchase of #44.
Barb read an email from Ed McSweeney, stating the owners of #34,(MN122 Main LLC) give permission to allow the
sewer pipe for # 44 to go via their property prior to entering the town sewer, per the easement plan provided. They
asked the Sewer Commission to approve the easement and they will sign the documents, prior to recording at the
Registry of Deeds. The Commissioners discussed and agreed with the easement. John noted this was a good
example of the recent by-law change. (Dave M. entered meeting). Dave asked if there was anyone present from the
public other than Marc and Barb confirmed there were none. Barb added the documents were on file at the Town
Clerk's office for anyone to view and she has not heard of any issues raised.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the conditions and give Marc Bernstein the waiver per requested.
Discussion: Marc thanked the Commission for the efficient way they handled this, and said Barb made the process
very easy.
Roll call vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and John-aye.
John declared the motion approved and closed the public hearing of 10/11/22 at 6:12pm.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Request for review of Invoice for New Ownership at 136 Leominster Rd. - Barb reported she received a letter
from the new owners of 136 Leominster Road, which they purchased on June 24th. She noted the Q1 billing (4/1-
6/30) was done and as the policy states now, there is no pro-ration, and the new owners were billed for the full
minimum charge. The Commission had discussed changing the policy to prorate per month versus per quarter but
wanted to wait to put them in place until after the Sewer Bylaw went through, so that the policy changes can be done
with 1 public hearing. She added the Commission had been in favor of pro-rating on a monthly basis for new owners
and connections. The Commission discussed and agreed to pro-rate the bill, reducing the bill from $115 to $38.33.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Brett R.
To pro-rate the bill for 136 Leominster Road.
Roll call vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Dave suggested putting the policy changes on a future agenda and the Commission discussed setting a goal to
complete them by the end of the year.
Pond View 40B discussion- John stated the ZBA hearing for the 40B project will be held 10/12 and will be
broadcast live, as well as via Zoom. The Commission had received the letter from Mr. O'Brien's attorney and the
Lunenburg Water District. John stated the Commission has already provided information to the ZBA and Town
Counsel. Barb emailed Al Gravelle (ZBA chair) as to whether there was a proposed route for sewer and water, but
she has no information yet. Dave asked why they are looking at sewer and water first and Barb was unsure as the
===PAGE 2===
applicant has not shared anything new regarding plans and suggested that the hearing may be more of a legal
discussion on water and sewer. Adam Costa (Town Counsel) had initially told them he did not think they had the
grounds to change the sewer and water districts. John summarized Mr. O'Brien's attorney letter which countered
Adam's stance with different case law. John won't be able to attend but can attend via zoom. Dave said he could
attend but inquired whether there was anything new that would be discussed at the hearing tomorrow night.
ARPA proposal - John reported Bill submitted his proposal for $200K for manholes, $300K for pump stations and
$90K for a mobile generator. Barb noted the proposals were received by Heather (Town Manager) and the Select
Board will discuss all 3 at their 11/1 meeting. Bill added the generator could be used in other emergencies in town.
He had purchased one of the same size 4 years ago for around $9OK.
Minutes of 9/13/22-
Motion: Brett R
To accept the minutes of 9/13/22.
Second: Mike N.
Roll call vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye.
Minutes of 9/27/22-
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Dave M.
To accept the minutes of 9/27/22.
Roll call vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and John-aye. (Brett did not attend.)
Business Manager Report -Counsel hours discussion- Barb and John attended counsel hours to discuss Pond
View and upcoming policy changes, to include replacing clay pipes at time of sale. Adam (Town Counsel) said it
would be hard to enforce that requirement and that tearing up their lawn at the time of sale would deter most sellers.
They will need to look at other options and for now get an estimate of average costs for replacing the clay pipes in
the Whalom area. John said Adam was also concerned about litigation from sellers that were required to upgrade.
Dave suggested talking with Leominster to price it out together. John pointed out the cost would vary depending the
length of the pipe and he will ask a local contractor for an estimate. Dave asked whether they had permission to
camera the lines and Barb replied she will talk to Counsel first. Bill noted we'd have to get a right of entry form
signed, but he would be concerned about damage to the pipes. Dave added if they see something the camera can't
go through, that would require that the owner take action. Barb had asked their Fitchburg counterpart if they have any
rules to replace pipes and read from Fitchburg City Code Ch. 147-7c, which states owners shall maintain/repair
laterals/drains if the City determines the wastewater system may endanger public health, damage property, or harm
the system. She suggested getting a similar statement in the regulations when the Commission reviews the policy
changes. Muni-Link demonstration- Barb reported Muni-Link provided another demo of the program with Heather
(Town Manager), Myleen (Tax Collector) and Karen (Town Accountant). It went well and their next task is to check
with other customers using Munis, to research how they perform certain functions. The Town will be upgrading
Munis to a web-based format in February/March, and Barb has asked for a demo to understand the changes. Barb
will update the Commission on progress.
1st Tuesday reports were all in but 1 which they will follow up on. 88 Mass Ave request- Barb noted the Planning
Board has another proposal to go from a 3 unit to a 5-unit strip mall on Oct 24th but at this time does not know the
plans for what would be going in. The Commission will probably be getting another change-of-use application from.
them. She added that it had come before the Commission before as a proposed marijuana retail shop, but the project
failed because it was too close to a residence. Barb noted she had recently received word of another potential
request for 43 Summer. This was formerly Donnelly's Tavern, which is converting to a marijuana retail
establishment and there is a building behind it which fronts on Young's Road, and they are looking at connecting it to -
sewer on Summer Street. This would be another Change of Use as it is an expansion of use and if they go forward,
they've been advised that they will need to submit an engineered plan. 1155 Mass Ave.- Barb received an inquiry for
connecting a tiny house to sewer and she will need to talk to counsel. The main house is not connected to sewer,
and they do not want to. It would probably require another privilege fee because it is an expansion for 2 dwellings.
Invoices- Mead, Talerman - $381.67 (re. 44 Northfield easement for 1.8 hrs)
===PAGE 3===
Action Items- Dave noted I! Forno is going before the Planning Board in regard to expanding their restaurant. If they
build an extra building, it will change the occupancy and the Commission will need to look at how it affects the sewer.
Dave asked about the billing algorithm from the Woodard & Curran report. Barb noted it was to compare meters to
the billing figures. She will need to get reports from Al (CTE) for pumping times in the Whalom area and review it
again. She noted that the contract with Woodard & Curran, who developed the algorithm, was closed out. Dave
asked for an update on a property at the end of Prospect St. Barb said it was 419 Whalom Rd., which has been
connected to sewer and sold.
Public Comment - Dave reminded all to attend the 40B hearing at the ZBA meeting on 10/12. Also there will be a
Pancake breakfast on 10/12 at Senior Center from 8-11am. Barb wished John good luck with his surgery on 10/25.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 25, 2022 @ 6pm-Regular Meeting, Remote Participation (John will not be attending- Brett will chair).
November 8, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:50pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll call vote: Brett-aye, Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Minutes Clerk
Handouts - Read aloud in the meeting:
Fitchburg City Code Ch. 147-7, section C
34 & 44 Northfield Rd. Sewer Easement Approval email from Ed McSweeney
