===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
the New York subway.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb reported her new Assistant, Paula, was in an accident after leaving work today. She is
ok but at the hospital and asked for more prayers for Paula. Barb also announced the new DPW Director, James
Donison, will be starting on 4/19.
APPOINTMENTS-
Kevin Olson, Wright Pierce-Upland/Eastern/White/Maple Parkway extension discussion- Barb screen-shared
the memo provided by Wright Pierce. Kevin explained they were hired by the Sewer Commission to look at the
potential for sewer extensions at Upland/Eastern and at White/Maple Parkway. They have done soil borings to get a
preliminary understanding of the ledge in those streets and developed conceptual plans for a gravity sewer layout. In
addition, they looked at a low-pressure system, similar to what the Town did on Pratt Street and Lakeview Ave.
several years ago. The preliminary costs were estimated, which was converted into a betterment fee estimate. Brett
asked if it was necessary to go 5'to 6' deep. Kevin replied that for a gravity system it would be deeper than that but
for a low-pressure system they typically go 5' or a little more. He added that it could be riskier in going shallower and
the difference between 4' & 5' would not make a big difference in cost. Kevin noted that they found most of the ledge
on Eastern and Upland. If the town moved forward with a low-pressure system in either area, the ledge quantities
would be on the lower side. Barb noted there was a big difference in digging for the gravity vs. the ledge. Kevin said
they could revisit it again, but the 20% contingency could cover it if they are a little short on the ledge quantity. The
project costs come down significantly with the low-pressure system but all private property costs such as the low-
pressure grinder pumps are on the resident. The gravity sewer would be a $57K betterment and the low-pressure
system would be a $40K betterment- both paid out over 20 years. Mike noted the cost and maintenance for the E1
pump and that the E-1 is what you go with if you have no other options. Kevin estimated the average septic system
costs about $30K and there are some tight tanks on Upland. He added the gravity seemed like the better option, but
costs are high, so they wanted to give another option. Dave noted if they go with the low- pressure system, the
customers will get charged up front for a privilege fee and the E1 pump, but the privilege fee can be spread over 20
years. Brett asked for an estimated installation cost on an E-1, without needing to blast. John replied there are
internal or external pumps. Where there is ledge, the internal pump is the better option and costs $7K plus $500 for
the electrical hookup. Dave stated for few thousand more, they can go with a gravity system and pay over 20 years
as a betterment. John pointed out both systems need to go below the frost line from the house to the main. The cost
to handle the ledge would be about the same. Kevin said they used GIS for making estimates and he suspects that
there may be no homes who have pipes that go straight out due to the ledge. The gravity option may be more
challenging and they may need a pump to pump up to a gravity line. Dave asked Matt for recommendations. Matt
replied that they just bid on a project with cost of $13K for a grinder pump, with installation. Kevin added the low
pressure system shows a lower betterment cost, but they need to install the pump and you have another piece of
equipment that could break. Gravity systems do not generally break. Brett asked if the gravity system needs to be 8'
deep and John replied the external pump needs to be 7' deep. Kevin said they created profiles based on borings for
the gravity system and they have options to get the service above the ledge but under the frost line. John noted the
E-1 pumps require Unitil or a generator, in case of power outage. Mike said he likes the gravity option, with
significantly lower upfront costs. Barb noted the residents have not yet been surveyed and it would be easier to sell
as a combined project. The Commission discussed and agreed to present it as a total project for both areas. Matt
===PAGE 2===
Kevin reported that he had a conversation with Rob Oliva concerning the use of ARPA funding. He suggested looking
at investing in the pump stations and noted the Maintenance Plan had capital improvements listed. Other areas
would be manholes, pipe cleaning and CCTV inspection. Dave said they worked with Rob on the Sewer Maintenance
program and gave $100K to those projects. He pointed out that the Whalom area has a lot of clay pipes and he
talked to Leominster, who is looking at grants to put sleeves over the clay pipes. Matt pointed out that they could do a
cure-in-place lining which makes one continuous pipe between manholes. He also said that he could send the
Commission a draft of what they saw when they inspected them 4 years ago. Dave recommended setting up a
meeting with the new DPW Director, Matt, Kevin and possibly the Leominster DPW Director. Brett asked Kevin if he
had cost estimates for CIPP and Matt replied $40-70/ l.ft. to possibly $100/l.ft. Dave noted that there should be
money coming from Build Back America funding. Barb pointed out the clay pipes are on private property and Matt
replied that they can do the lining but will need permission of the residents. John clarified that the issue is whether
work on private property is considered capital improvement. Kevin said they can get information to the Commission.
Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham- 711 Mass Ave condo project- Jamie reported that he had submitted their
application to Barb and that the project has been approved by the Planning Board, Conservation and the ZBA. The
project was peer-reviewed by Jeff Walsh (Graves). Rob Oliva reviewed the plans on behalf of the Commission and
emailed Jamie with a list of 7 comments. They have made the changes, except 1 that they wanted to discuss with
Rob. Jamie asked how the Commission wanted to move forward. Dave suggested having the Planning Board
engineer review it, then give it to the new DPW Director and then have it presented to the Commission. Barb screen-
shared the application and drawing, which shows 4 Duplex units- 8 units in all, with 2 bedrooms each. Barb
confirmed the flow of 1,760 gal/day going to Leominster. Jamie pointed out the details on the drawing for water and
sewer. Jamie added that he can share Rob Oliva's input along with the revised plans that they did according to Rob's
comments. Barb asked if there is an updated plan. Jamie replied they made revisions for the Planning Board and
Conservation. After Jeff Walsh reviews them; they will send the Commission the updated plan. Barb screen-shared
Rob's comments and Jamie said that they already incorporated 6 of the 7. He noted that they had to revise the plans
for the Planning Board and now the buildings are closer together. They will not be able to run the line between the
buildings, but it will be easier to run the sewer line down the driveway. Barb asked Jamie for a new plan to submit for
the peer review, which he will drop off. Jamie noted that he'd sold Whitman and Bingham in August 2021 to Haley
Ward but is staying on for the interim and it is business as usual. Barb will contact Graves to let them know the plans
are coming.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Solar Panel Proposal (Green Community request) Barb reported she and Al Packard talked to Jack Biery
(Town's Electrical Inspector), along with Al's contact at Solect. They agreed that there was not enough time to pull
together a proposal. They need to check out land and space first. Barb informed Dave Passios that the Commission
would need to put it off until the next run. Dave P. said it was fine because they are focusing on the streetlights. Dave
M. suggested setting up an appointment with Al Packard for tours of the pump stations for the Commission and the
new DPW Director.
Pond View Commons 40B- Mass Housing approval- Barb sent the Commission the notice of the approval by
Mass Housing. The Select Board and Town Counsel will be coming up with a response. Dave noted the project will
be going through the Zoning Board of Appeals. He added that the Commission will give them the facts about the
===PAGE 3===
75% of the revenues. There is still 1 quarterly billing to send out. Meadowwoods made a payment on past due bills
and betterments, along with others who paid amounts on tax liens. There will be $225K going to Retained Earnings
when the betterments are applied. IT issues - Barb reported that the move from servers/hardware to the cloud has
not been smooth and that they have had problems with files going missing. She added that it has been a tough time
for Paula to train but she has been a trooper and is doing well. Grease Traps- Barb sent out a certified letter to A&D
Crossroads and they are waiting for the pump out report. 1st Tuesday - there are several missing, but she has
contacted them. Barb updated the Website with info on the new DPW Director, new Assistant Paula, new Rate
increase (to be approved with the FY23 budget at Town Meeting) and Pool filling/new lawn waiver information. Barb
will be on vacation from 4/13 until 4/25. Dave mentioned that he'd like Paula come to a meeting to meet everyone.
Action Items-none
Public Comment - the Commission wished Barb a good vacation.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
April 26, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
May 7, 2022 @ 9am Annual Town Meeting, LMHS, Mass Ave.
May 10, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 7:24 pm.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote- John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave aye.
Respectfully submitted,
вне ч
Jane L. Ranley
carly
Mnutes Clerk
Handouts - Screen Shared by Barb
Memo from Wright Pierce for Upland/Eastern/White/Maple Parkway potential extension
Whitman & Bingham Engineering Plans for 711 Mass. Ave. condo project
Rob Oliva's list of comments on the 711 Mass. Ave. plans
FY22 YTD Budget
