===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 8/30/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault,
Assistant Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk-vane Ranley
Absent: Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Clerk- Mike Deveikis and DPW Director- Bill Bernard
Guests: Mike Mohamed (i Forno), Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy)
John opened the meeting at 6:04 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave, on behalf of the Lion's Club, thanked all who came out to support the food drive at
Hickory Hills. They collected over 120 bags of food.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - John reported the Q1 sewer bills were sent out on 8/16. If anyone did not receive their bill,
they can call the Sewer or Tax Collector office. Bills can be paid online, at the Town Hall or mailed.
APPOINTMENTS-
Jacie Nicoll (Smokestack Roasters) - appointment cancelled and they withdrew their request for a hearing.
Mark Moscinski- 400 Sunnyhill Rd. -did not attend.
CURRENT BUSINESS-
Pondview Commons 40B Comprehensive Permit Application- John noted the Sewer Dept. received a large
binder for this application and he briefly looked at it. Paula reported the binder came on Aug. 25' and the application
has been submitted to the ZBA (Zoning Board). The applicant is seeking a waiver of filing fees from the town and
sent a check for $1,000. The filling fees required are $86,000, but their attorneys say this is unreasonable and not
consistent with the usual filing fees for a subdivision or a special permit project. They are willing to pay for a peer
review based on proposals for those services, not a fixed arbitrary schedule. Paula suggested that the Commission
identify the costs for a peer review and provide that information to the ZBA. John encouraged the Commissioners to
read the 2 items that were included in the package sent out and to go to the Sewer Dept. to review the binder. Paula
said that she did not know when the ZBA will be discussing the waiver request but will check on it. She had sent the
Commission a list of the requested waivers which includes a waiver for requiring the project be inside the SSA
(Sewer Service Area. She suggested that the Commission make a recommendation to the ZBA regarding this
waiver request. John said that he was not sure how to handle that since the Commission does not determine whether
a property can be included in the SSA. Dave noted the Commission would need to make a report to the ZBA,
explaining their concerns about the project being outside the SSA. The ZBA would make the determination. Dave
added the Connection Fees are crucial as they are passed on to Leominster. If they are not paid, it would create a
hardship on the Town. He recommended the town lawyers get the paperwork and have Leominster involved. Paula
reminded all that the Hollis Hills project had waived connection fees and that cost would have been assumed by
Sewer Enterprise fund. John asked Paula to find out when the ZBA will have this on their agenda and also add it to
the next agenda for discussion. Paula will also send Commissioners a copy of the Sewer Commission's concerns for
this project. (Brett joined meeting)
APPOINTMENTS:
Mike Mohamed I Forno Restaurant) - Mike explained that Grease Trapper was taking care of their grease traps.
Grease Trapper's business was sold and somehow lost their files. I! Forno has the documents to prove Grease
Trapper did the job and I! Forno had paid them, but they did not send the report at the right times. Mike said that they
did not know anything was wrong until they heard from the Town. He noted that they are on a new schedule now and
the traps will be done on 9/24. Mike added that they have a log in system set up to stay on top of things. John noted
that on the grease trap permit application checklist, it states the owner is responsible for submitting the reports. Mike
replied that he understands that but that he didn't follow up on the report because he thought that Grease Trappers
sent the report. They are monitoring it now. Dave asked Paula's opinion and she stated that there were a lot of
emails sent between Grease Trappers, Barb, and herself. Barb also sent emails in February and March to I! Forno,
stating they were non-compliant. The system should have been pumped 12/9/21 and they do not have a record of
that pumping. Emails were sent to Carlene and Mike, regarding the missed pumping. Mike said that they followed up
===PAGE 2===
with Gary (Grease Trappers) and were promised that it would get done. Dave pointed out that there was a lot of
correspondence going back and forth and it was not out of the blue. Paula read the list of correspondence by Barb
regarding the missing 12/9/21 pumping and report. Barb emailed I! Forno on 3/28/22 stating they had not received
the pumping report and Il Forno was now non-compliant. On 3/29, Paula received a call from Gary of Grease
Trappers saying he would get her the report as soon as possible but they still did not receive the 12/9/21 report of
pumping. Paula added that this was a reoccurring issue. Dave advised Mike to call the pumping company to get the
records for the pumping and Mike agreed to do that. Paula said that they also had a similar problem with Asian
Imperial, who also used Grease Trappers. Asian Imperial also became non-compliant, but they paid the fee and have
hired a different pumping company. Dave suggested giving Mike 2 weeks to obtain the reports and take it up at the
next meeting. Mike Nault asked if Gary was sending the reports before selling the company and Paula replied there
were issues going back to 2020 when it was Sean Patrick's. In addition, their 2/1/22 email was not responded to until
3/29 by Grease Trappers saying they would send the report but found out the pumping was not done as required.
Mike N. agreed to getting records that it was pumped.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Brett R.
To postpone a decision for 2 weeks and give I! Forno's owner a chance to call his pumping company to get
them back online. If that does not happen, the Commission will stick to what they were planning to do with
the paperwork they received.
Discussion: Mike said he would get on it first thing in the morning. Dave stated I! Forno is a good establishment in
town, but they need to get their paperwork back online. John noted that they need to be concerned about
consistency-business to business. Mike added his prior landlord took care of this and it was something he was not
aware of. Dave replied that they are here to help restaurants, but i Forno needs to respond to emails and calls from
the Town.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Paula will add the discussion to the next meeting agenda
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) - re. 3 Lancaster Ave. Change of Use - Ryan stated that he is representing the
applicant for a change of use at 3 Lancaster Ave to convert the existing space to office space. The property was
formerly Dragonfly Cafe and Trudy's Treats. They are not proposing any external changes other than striping the
parking lot and no changes to utilities. They are proposing an increased flow of 85 gal/day. The previous design flow
was 240 per day and the new use will be roughly 325 gal/day. John asked why the flow was greater since it was
previously a working kitchen and Ryan replied the Title V classification for fast food was calculated by the seat. It is
now set up based on total overall area. Dave asked Paula if Dragonfly has an active grease trap and she replied they
do not receive a bill or permit renewal. Dave suggested checking if there is still a grease trap and if so, it should be
disconnected. Ryan said he will get an answer for them. Dave added that they should have a plumber certify it has
been disconnected. If there is an inground trap, it would not have to come out but should be disconnected.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the change of use for 3 Lancaster Ave, with the speculation they will discontinue the grease trap
and send certification to the Sewer Office.
Roll Call Vote: Dave- aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Jane asked the Chair if the Commission can vote on minutes before Mike Nault needs to leave the meeting.
Minutes for 6/14/22
Motion: Dave M.
To accept the minutes for 6/14/22.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Dave- aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye.
Minutes for 7/12/22
Motion: Brett R.
To accept the minutes for 7/12/22.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Minutes for 8/09/22 - were postponed to the next meeting (Mike N. left the meeting)
===PAGE 3===
CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
ARPA proposal- John reported Bill (DPW Director) submitted the Sewer Commission's ideas to the Town Manager
for $200k (manholes) and $300K (pump stations). Dave suggested doing the pump stations as a priority over
manholes. Dave noted that there is money in the maintenance program for manholes but not for the pump stations.
The money will be distributed throughout Town, so Dave was not sure what would come to sewer. Paula said she will
talk to Bill, but suggested John also discuss it with Bill and the Selectmen. Dave suggested the money may be going
through the Capital Planning committee and Paula replied that she would find out.
Special Town Meeting Warrant for November 15, 2022- John reported the warrant opened on 8/23 and articles
need to be in by 9/20. There will be an article for transfer to the stabilization fund that's done yearly and John said he
would work with Barb on it.
Q1FY23 Commitment-Paula reported the bills went out on 8/16 for $305,865.68 but there will be adjustments to
that amount so it will be less. She has the commitment paperwork for the Commissioners to sign.
Motion: Brett R
Second: Dave M.
To accept the Q1FY23 Commitment of $305,865.68 or less.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Privilege Fee Order- 17 Highland St.- Paula reported the owner of the property has chosen to apportion the
betterment over the 20-year period. The Sewer Commission needed to vote and issue an order of sewer privilege fee
assessment of $11,551.47. Paula added there was a recording fee of $105, which the owner provided.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the apportionment of the Privilege Fee of $11,551.47 for 17 Highland St.
Roll Call Vote: Dave- aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Grease Trap Program- Annual Permits Outstanding - Paula noted that they issued fees in the amount of $4,350
for businesses that were non-compliant. There was a hearing for 1 establishment earlier in the meeting and there are
2 outstanding permit applications that were due 8/10 - Conrad's and A&D Crossroads. She added that emails and
calls were sent to them and if they are not received by the next meeting, she recommends starting the non-
compliance process at the next meeting. John agreed to have them put on the next agenda. 1st Tuesday reports
status - Paula reported that they have received the majority of most reports and will follow up on the late ones.
Presto Pizza was closed a month for vacation and will send reports when they return.
Business Manager Report - Muni-Link update- Paula stated that after going through the billing, it is clear they
need a new solution, to eliminate the data entry and have a better error checking system. Her goal is to meet with the
Finance Dept., Town Accountant (Karen), Tax Collector (Myleen) and Town Manager (Heather) during the week of
Sept. 12th. They need to talk about how to get the 2 systems to work together. Muni-Link is recommending using their
interface for customer payments, but it would require an upload to Munis through the journal ledger. In December,
Munis will be upgrading the system to the current version and Paula hopes it would be easier for import and export
FY22 Indirect costs adjustment- John noted there was a 2-month period of not having a DPW director and the
Commission was charged for benefits of about $900. He said Barb had followed up on this on 8/12 but did not get a
reply. The adjustment would need to be done before the closing of the fiscal year (no date yet). Barb wanted to know
if the Commission wanted to pursue it. Discussion followed on sending a letter to the Town Manager concerning the
credit and at least getting an explanation, plus the work that was done by the employees when there was no DPW
Director in place, but the Commission decided to take it offline and John will call the Town Manager regarding the
issue.
FY23 Budget- John and Paula agreed the budget looks fine. Paula noted currently the Expenses are $39,531.41
and Revenues are $347,461.97. John thanked the Commission for allowing waivers for new lawn watering when
Dave brought up the drought and its potential effect on resident's water bills. Paula processed several waivers in the
last billing, providing the waiver calculation to the users getting credits on their invoices.
===PAGE 4===
Invoices- Fitchburg (6/26-7/25) - $14,154.55, Leominster Usage - $112,146.74 and Mead, Talerman -$ 81.34 (for
order of discharge for bankruptcy). Paula noted that the Commission's signatures are needed. John added that there
are several documents needing the Commissioners' signatures and Paula requested that they come to the office this
week to sign.
Business Manager's resignation- Dave recommended holding off accepting the resignation until the next meeting.
Mark Moscinski-re. 400 Sunnyhill Rd. -He had a 6:45 appointment this evening but did not attend. Paula reported
that it is a new construction and the water meter was turned on. We received the drain layers application for a drain
layers license, but have not received an application to connect or the associated fees. John stated that they are not
connected to the sewer as far as we know but the Commission needs to keep their eye on it. Barb contacted them
starting in 2021 with no responses to her many emails and that is why she is addressing this as a potential illegal
connection. Paula said the contractor is in contact with Whitman & Bingham for an engineered plan that Rob (Oliva)
had requested.
Public Comment - none
Action Items-
Dave suggested sitting down with Leominster to discuss coating or lining the pipes in the Whalom District and to
reach out to Leominster and Fitchburg for a meeting.
John asked the Commissioners to stop at the DPW building to sign items.
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn: 7:06pm.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Dave- aye and John-aye
Respectfully submitted,
leueh Konley
lane L. Ranle
Minutes Clerk
