===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 5/3/22 Sewer Commission Special Meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Members: Mike Deveikis
and Mike Nault, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Dave opened the meeting at 6:04 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Articles for Annual Town Meeting - Discussion on Article 25. - Barb stated this article is to revise the bylaw and
Lunenburg is one of a few towns with such a strict easement restriction - there are no easements allowed for sewer
connections. Town Counsel and the past DPW Director suggested revising the bylaw. Barb screen-shared and read
the summary of Article 25 for bylaw changes. Dave said the Commission is trying to service customers. An example
is a resident who had paid his betterment and has access to Mass Ave but cannot bring a utility from Mass Ave
because he does not own the driveway. Tom Alonzo(284 Lancaster Ave, and Select Board Chair) noted Dave
would also be attending the 5/3 Select Board meeting later to answer questions. Reading from the Town Warrant,
Tom read the addition to Section (i) and suggested adding "or a portion of the property" to the last sentence to read
"Neither the boundaries of the Sewer Service Area (SSA) nor the requirement that a property or a portion of the
property be located within said Sewer Service Area to be eligible to connect may be waived." He said this would
clarify things if a portion of the property is in the SSA, someone cannot look at another part of the property and look
for sewer service there. Dave said that they will bring that up to Counsel to change it or define it. Tom also asked
why it states in Section (i) "easements going across adjoining properties" and asked what other properties there
would be. Dave agreed that it would be an easement going across an adjoining property under a hardship case- not
across multiple properties. Tom noted the new section 10 of the Bylaw would give broad powers to the Commission
and understands hardships waivers would only come to the Commission, so he would want to see special requests
granted with a super majority of at least 4 of 5 Commissioners. Dave said that he agrees but wanted to make it clear
that the Commission's goal is to service their customers. Right now, the Commission cannot promote or deny access
to sewer. If the Planning Board approves a project, the Commission will approve it. Tom replied that the section
refers to waivers and hardships. He is for hardship waivers, where people find they have no option, but projects
should not be deemed hardships, such as commercial or other large projects. Dave defines emergencies as property
that was denied sewer but may not be able to support a septic later. Barb clarified that this gives the Commission the
right to look at a situation and following Mass General Law, allow something that is not stated or allowed in their
Sewer Regulations. Tom added that the summary indicated all points would need to be met in order to be approved.
The way it is written seems like only 1 would need to be met. Barb screen-shared Article 25 under Waivers. Tom
added his comments have nothing to do with the current Commissioners but for the Commissions in the future. Barb
screen-shared the simplified summary of Article 25 and said she tried to clarify what has to happen for a waiver. At
the Select Board meeting, Tom will bring up the waiver section, the super majority and having a public hearing for a
waiver request. Mary Wilson(Whiting St.) asked if there are checks and balances in place or is it just at the
Commission's discretion. Dave replied that if your property is in the Sewer Service Area, but you need to go across
another property to access, you should be able to come before the Commission. It is designed for those paying a
betterment. Mary asked if there are other circumstances that it may inadvertently apply to, such as commercial
projects. Dave replied that they have a few customers this could apply to but there would be public meetings to
discuss it. Mary pointed out that the waiver process seems pretty broad, and she was looking for the language saying
it would need a public vote. Dave said he understands, and this was the language from Town Counsel. He added
there are a couple things to put in there and the super majority is good idea. It is time to help customers who have
been left out. Mary agreed with not having to deny those with hardships as previously mentioned, but she is
wondering what else may come along as an unintended consequence and undesirable results. She looks for
uncontrolled checks and balances with new regulations. Dave can't see waivers given on new developments- it was
===PAGE 2===
designed for those currently in the SSA. Chris St. Germain (268 Flat Hill Rd.) also said he was concerned about large
parcels, but they need the verbiage to make sure it is not exploited. Dave replied the Commission cannot advocate or
deny any projects, but they are watching all new developments. He cannot see giving waivers to any of those. Matt
Allison (188 Flat Hill and Planning Board) agreed with the previous speakers. Since Dave said waivers are not for
new construction, Matt suggested it should be clearly stated in the Bylaw. Dave agreed and said they will discuss it
with Counsel at the Town Meeting on 5/7. Brett noted if he had property to build on but would need an easement to
connect and they write out new construction, he would be unable to do it. Matt pointed out there are a lot of
undeveloped property within the SSA. Dave said that they would need to consult Counsel at the Town Meeting. Matt
noted an emergency is clear, but an undeveloped parcel is not an undue hardship. He added that if you had an
existing lot prior to zoning, you are guaranteed one house. Dave suggested coming up with verbiage to address this
and they do not want to do easements all over town. They want to service those paying betterments. Matt added it
should not be a warrant article without a DPW Director to answer questions. Dave noted that former DPW Director
Rob Oliva helped design it and Town Counsel drafted it. Barb added that it gives the Commission discretion for the
general waiver, which many towns already have. Chris St. Germain (268 Flat Hill Rd.) and asked how they can vote
yes without the changes. Dave replied that they will talk to Counsel about changes at the Town Meeting. Barb
added that the article will be presented as is, but they can vote on amendments on the floor. Dave noted they will be
discussing the article at the Select Board meeting at 7:20pm and at the Town Meeting. Barb noted that the 3 Budget
Articles will be part of the consent calendar.
Public Comment - Dave thanked those who commented and thanked Joe Progin for running the DPW without a
Director. Matt said revising bylaws is a difficult process and wished them good luck at Town Meeting.
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:44pm.
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye, Brett-aye and Dave- aye.
Respectfully submitted,
save t
ane L. Ranley
Panley
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Article 25 from the 5/7/22 Lunenburg Town Meeting Warrant
Summary of Article 25 for By-Law changes
