===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 10/25/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill Bernard,
Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Mike Deveikis
Brett R. opened the meeting at 6:03 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by
saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave thanked everyone who came out and voted at the Water District meeting. He urged all to
come out to vote at the Nov. 8th election.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Pond View 40B discussion- Peer review discussion for ZBA hearing on 10/26 at 7:30pm - Barb noted that at
the 10/12/22 ZBA hearing, they stated the next hearing on 10/26 will focus on peer reviews. She added that John had
suggested contacting Wright Pierce for a peer review estimate. Dave pointed out that they have done a lot of
business with Wright Pierce and they know the Lunenburg system the best. He added the Commission can
recommend the peer reviewer who will make sure the applicant's design will work with the Lunenburg system and the
applicant pays the bill. The Commission discussed Wright Pierce's estimate of $2.8M/mile to run sewer, noting that
everything has gone up, including asphalt and the cost of diesel for trucking. Barb said the estimate was obtained to
show the applicant's estimate of $4M for running sewer and water was grossly underestimated and she will submit a
formal memo to the ZBA stating that. Brett asked how long the ZBA will be having hearings on Pond View and Dave
estimated until March. The Commission discussed and agreed to use Wright Pierce for the peer review.
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Dave M.
To put forward Wright Pierce for the Pond View 40B project peer review.
Discussion: Dave asked for Bill and Barb's opinion. Bill replied Wright Pierce is familiar with the system, their
numbers are decent, and it is the right way to go. Barb agreed and noted Kevin Olson and Matt Corbin are very
familiar with Lunenburg's system and worked on the SRF project. They also worked on the WMP master plan and
are aware how this project does not quite fit in with it. The Commission discussed and agreed Wright Pierce is an
honest company and the numbers are good.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and Brett -aye.
Barb stated copies of the IMAs have been sent to the applicant and she has put together a memo, with figures for
capacities. The Pond View project will have flows of about 40,000 gal/day plus 33,000 gal/day for the additional
proposed 100 single family homes, which would leave only 10,000 gd capacity to go to Fitchburg and limit additional
connections along that line. Using the same figures with Leominster, it would leave a capacity of 149,000 gpd.,
allowing others to connect. Barb asked the Commission to confirm they will allow others to connect along the line.
Dave suggested the Commission vote that they would not accept a single line from Pond View to Leominster. Mike
and Bill agreed it should be stubbed out for others to tie in.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
This board forbids a single line from the project to the Leominster hook-up, and we are requesting full
connections along the way.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and Brett -aye
Dave suggested the Commission look at the extra operational costs and maintenance if the project gets built. He
questioned who would be responsible for a pump station built on the project property and Bill replied Lunenburg will
probably end up with it. Barb noted the cost of maintenance was included in the list of concerns and guessed it may
be $10K/year. She will discuss this with Town Counsel. Dave asked if the applicant could request an increase in
flows from Fitchburg and Leominster. Barb replied it is an agreement between 2 towns, but they could propose
revising the IMA and she will ask Counsel. Brett thanked Barb for getting everything together for the ZBA hearing.
Privilege Fee Assessments - 34 Northfield Rd. - $11,551.47 for the property connected on 10/9/22. Barb stated
this was the amount assessed for a property that was not originally bettered. Dave asked if the homeowners know
are getting billed and Barb replied they were informed of the privilege fee assessed.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To assess $11,551.47 privilege fee for 34 Northfield Road, connected on 10/9/22.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
4 Kimball St. extension for $6,998.74 - Barb stated the Commission had previously voted to approve an extension
and per the regulations, extensions are assessed 50% of the most recent betterment which was about $13K for the
SRF project. She added the owners have already pre-paid the fee.
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Dave M.
To assess the extension privilege fee for 4 Kimball St. of $6,998.74
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and Brett -aye.
Minutes of 10/11/22- A typo on page 2 was corrected. Brett asked for clarification if there were any tabled minutes to
approve and Barb replied no.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the minutes for 10/11/22.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
Business Manager Report - 400 Sunnyhill Rd. status- Barb reported they have submitted all paperwork and plan
to work on the connection now. Grease Trap program- 1st Tuesday reports- September logs all received. Barb
stated the DPW department performed a Fraud Risk Assessment recently, per the request of the Town Manager
and Bill submitted Barb's sewer input along with DW's assessment. FY23 Budget- Barb reported it is going well
and she will have an update for the next meeting. Invoices- Fitchburg Usage- 17,671.58, which included $6 interest
due to a late payment, most likely caused by a staffing issue at Town Hall.
Action Items- Dave asked when they will start discussing the budget and Barb replied usually in December.
Public Comment - Dave asked to send prayers to John for a quick recovery from surgery and said Brett did a great
job as chair. All agreed.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
November 8, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
November 29, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Dave M.
To adjourn at 6:48pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and Brett -aye.
You kiloney,
Handouts: Wright Pierce estimate of $2.8M of October 21, 2022
