===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 11/08/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Vice-Chair-Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill Bernard,
Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre
Absent: Chair-John Reynolds, Clerk- Mike Deveikis, and Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Brett R. opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and noted John Reynolds is still recovering from surgery. The Commission
began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance and Brett did a roll call of attendees.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave reminded all to go vote if they have not already. Polls close at 8pm.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb stated that all the Commissioners' emails have been migrated over to 'lunenburgma.gov'
email addresses and to update their address books. Dave asked about email addresses for the schools and Barb
replied the schools are on 'lunenburgschools.net' emails.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Pond View 40B discussion- Brett noted there will be a ZBA hearing on 11/9 at 7pm, in person or by Zoom. They
have received a new peer review estimate from Wright Pierce. There will be a cap of $7,500 and the developer will
be paying for it. Dave clarified that it is not a cap but an estimate for hourly rate, which could be higher or lower,
depending on the work done by the developer's engineers. He thanked Wright Pierce for making the estimate clearer
to read and Bill agreed it was much simpler. Barb noted the Commission may contract with Wright Pierce separately,
but the 40B applicant will pay for the peer review. Dave said the last hearing looked at other items, but the next
hearing will look at fee structures. Barb said the ZBA will be talking about the Civil Engineering review. Sewer and
water will be on the agenda, but it may be just a discussion of the districts.
Special Town Meeting on 11/15 at 7pm - Brett stated there will be 2 articles for the Sewer Commission. Article 6 is
the transfer from available funds $1,645.60 into the Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund and Article 7 is the
transfer from available funds $9,900.00 into the Sewer Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund. Dave asked if they are on
the consent agenda and Barb replied she has not received that or the warrant booklet. Barb noted the transfers are
unused funds collected for one purpose and since FY22 is now closed, the funds will be moved to Stabilization
Funds. There should not be much debate about it.
Retained Earnings and FY23 Recap- Barb reported the Retained Earnings has been certified at $2,232,978.
Business Manager Retirement - Barb announced she will be retiring effective 4/3/23. The Commissioners wished
her well.
Minutes of 10/25/22- Brett asked for a motion to approve the minutes.
Motion: Mike N
To approve the minutes for 10/25/22.
Second: Dave M.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Dave- aye and Brett-aye.
Business Manager Report - Grease Trap program- all the 1st Tuesday reports are in for October, within the 7-day
window. Whalom I/l investigation- Barb reported they discussed different options with Town Counsel for reducing
the l/l. One option is to camera the lines for homes they think still have clay pipes. Counsel did not have any issue
with doing that and Bill stated at the last meeting, a right of entry form will need to be filled out, which would spell out
any liabilities they would be responsible for. Barb noted the only issue would be the Sewer Regulations do not quite
state they have the right to demand a repair. Fitchburg has that clause written into their Chapter 147. Barb proposed
getting it into their policies, do a public hearing to accept the policies and shortly thereafter, do the camera job. The
cameraing may be a quick way to determine who still has clay pipes in that area. Dave asked if they could just pick a
few houses to sample to see if there was a problem or not. He agrees with opening it up for corrective actions and
doing the policy change. Barb said the Commission has the right to do an inspection but needs to have it better
spelled out as to what they can do if they find an issue. Dave suggested looking at 10 houses to start and Brett
agreed. Dave asked to add it as an action item. Barb said she would need Town Counsel's assistance on the right of
entry and the language to use to protect the Commission. Billing upgrade - Barb stated that Paula has been
working very hard on a program to automate a lot of the manual checking during this billing(Q2). The test will be with
the Q3 billing. She said Paula had very good hopes for her program vs Muni-Link, which they were planning to go
===PAGE 2===
with. The Collectors had an issue with Muni-Link, which they would have had to work out. Barb gave kudos to Paula
for the work to avoid having to manually enter any meter reads. The water meter reads for all customers including
Leominster & Fitchburg plus irrigation meter reads can now upload automatically. She noted that the Muni-Link
program reduced the multiple databases and Paula is working to upload directly to Access and then to Munis,
eliminating using Excel. FY23 Budget was sent out to the Commissioners, and it is looking good. Dave asked how
much has been budgeted for the Maintenance program and Barb replied $64K for Infrastructure and $20K for
Engineering. Brett suggested talking with Bill about his plans and the budget. Dave asked to add an update on the
action plan from the DPW Director to the next meeting agenda. Barb noted Bill has been talking to Al Packard (CTE)
about wet wells cleaning and has a contractor lined up. He is also working on getting jetting done. Dave asked about
the generators and Barb replied they are contracting with Weld, who has done major preventative maintenance on
the generators. Dave added that it would be good to get reports on how the pump stations are running. Barb said that
Al Packard has asked if the Commission would like him to attend a meeting and the Commission agreed to have him
attend when John is able to attend. Invoices- Mead, Talerman for $261.64 for September services (44 Northfield
waiver and 40B Pond View assessment fees).
Action Items- Dave inquired if the Commission has a policy stating they have the right to inspect the piping. Barb
replied when they did the smoke testing, they had the right to go in a home if they saw smoke. They also sent letters
and put it in the papers to make citizens aware that people would be in their neighborhoods. Dave clarified they have
the right to do inspections.
Public Comment - Brett said he hopes John heals quickly from his surgery. Dave announced the Pancake
Breakfast at the Senior Center on 11/9 and the Lion's Club will have a Meat Raffle Bingo on 11/12 at the
Monoosnock Country Club. Also 11/11 is Veteran's Day.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
November 29, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
December 13, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Dave M.
To adjourn at 6:33pm
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Dave aye, Mike N.-aye and Brett-aye.
You Party.,
