===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
DeStetano who would like to connect 4 Kimball St. to town sewer with a short extension from Prospect St. He screen-shared
the plan for the property which is near the intersection of Prospect and Kimball St. There is an existing 18" trunk sewer within
Prospect St, with an existing manhole. Greg did not find an as-built for the sewer but has copies of the proposed plans with a
sewer stub in that location. He is proposing to use the sewer stub, go up Kimball St. and put in another manhole. They would
stub a line for future extension on Kimball St., further west. He suggested using a lateral connection into the manhole, with an
8" sewer stub out of manhole for future extension up Kimball. Nicole said she plans on using Danny Proctor as the contractor,
but she does not have a quote yet. Bill B. said the plan looks good but Kimball and Prospect Streets were paved within the
last 5 years so they will need a permit and meet requirements for the patch. He is okay with issuing a permit. Mike N. asked if
they will be passing any non-sewered houses and Greg replied the only possible one would be to the east of 4 Kimball. That
property may have a lateral to Prospect and they should verify it. Mike N. stated he was ok with the plan. Brett suggested the
pipe be the required in-street size to handle a future extension to all of Kimball St. Greg said the stub is 8" which is the
minimum for municipal sewer and with a steep sewer, there should not be any capacity problems. He estimated there are
about 20-30 houses in the area and an 8" pipe would handle the flow. Barb noted the house to the east of 4 Kimball St is
known as 480 Hollis Rd. and it is already bettered, as well as the next house down the street. John asked to clarify that the
stub will be a SP3, which would accommodate the 10 houses up Kimball Street. The Commissioners discussed and agreed to
vote for the extension to proceed. Barb added the vote will be pending the assignment of a licensed drain layer contractor
prior to Bill B. signing off on the extension.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the sewer extension at 4 Kimball St, pending the assignment of a contractor.
Discussion: Barb said she received an inquiry from a home further up on Kimball St. that may or may not need an extension.
Greg reached out to them but has had no response yet.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Jacie Nicoll (Smokestack Roasters) - non-compliance discussion-postponed to next meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Illegal Connection- 400 Sunnyhill Rd. - John talked to Casey (Building Inspector) and he is not concerned that they have
connected to sewer. Barb has been working hard to get the contractor to comply. Former DPW Director Rob Oliva had
requested an engineered plan which has not yet been provided. Barb heard from the water department that the water meter
was turned on, which usually the effective date for a sewer connection with new construction. John said Casey noted the
contractor needed water to continue work in the house. Mike N. questioned if the water is on and there is no sewer, where is
the water going. Barb noted the contractor told Paula they are using Tandem Construction as a drainlayer. Tandem had been
an approved drainlayer in the past but needs to file paperwork again. They have not received an application yet. Mike N.
asked if water and sewer are usually put on at the same time and Barb replied yes. Brett suggested asking someone who
represents them to come to a meeting to discuss this and John asked Barb to send them a request to attend the next meeting.
ARPA spending- DPW Director's proposals - Bill said that the town has some ARPA money that could be used for
upgrades to sewer and suggested asking for $200K for manhole repairs. John asked about money for pump station upgrades
and Bill said he would add that to the request. Mike N. agreed with asking for money for manhole and pump station upgrades.
Brett suggested doing the manholes first and getting input on the pumps from the maintenance company. John asked Bill to
put together a request to the Town Manager for the money. Mike suggested requesting $200K for the manholes and $200K
for the pump station upgrades. John asked Bill if the money could be used to replenish the spare parts list and Bill will check
into it.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: Brett R.
by the court.
Second: Mike N.
To abate the past due bills for 24 John St. prior to 3/30 declaration of bankruptcy per Order of Discharge as approved
Discussion: Mike N. understands they have no choice but if the house sold, they could have had a lien to recover the
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and John-aye.
Minutes of 6/14 and 7/12 - were tabled to the next meeting because not all Commissioners were present.
Business Manager Report - Upland/Eastern extension status- Barb reported there have been no repercussions since they
determined they will not be proceeding any further. She added however that she had been asked to pursue with Town
Counsel offering a connection fee moratorium to help with the high price for the extension. Counsel reviewed it and
unfortunately, it may have been the only inquiry to Counsel in July. The Commission was thus charged for nearly the full
monthly flat fee of $1,273 for 2.3 hours for the connection fee question and 0.2 hours for information from the Governor
regarding remote meetings. Barb just wanted to bring the invoice to the Commission's attention.
Invoices- Mead, Talerman- $1,273.00 for July and Fitchburg - $15,223.07 (5/26-6/25/22)
Grease Trap annual permits- Barb reported they have about half of the annual permits in and one of the appointments
scheduled for this meeting was to contest the non-compliant status. Reminders have been sent out for those outstanding
permits. Website- has been updated with town meeting articles, election of officers, updated drain layers list, the new Sanitary
Sewer Overflow notification program and the Upland sewer extension request. Counsel hours- August 30 (11am to 3) Barb
will be away if someone else would like to go. She will be missing the next meeting and Paula will fill in for her. Barb's
retirement -Barb announced she will be retiring by the end of the calendar year. John said they will miss Barb and can't say
enough for what she has done for the Sewer Commission. Brett congratulated her.
Action Items- Brett asked if there is any progress with new billing system. Barb said they need to talk to the Town
Accountant, Town Manager and Muni-Link, but they are in the middle of getting billing out within the next week. After that,
they will focus on the new billing system. Barb will add it to the agenda for the next meeting.
Public Comment - Mike congratulated Barb on her retirement.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
August 30, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
September 13, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett
To adjourn at 7:01pm.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett- aye and John-aye.
