===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 9/13/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Vice-Chair-Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill
Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Asst. Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Clerk- Mike Deveikis
Guests: Lou Franco (Select Board), Mike Mohamed (I Forno)
John opened the meeting at 6:01pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the
Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - John announced there will be a ZBA (Zoning Board of Appeals) public hearing on the Pond View
Commons 40B project on 9/14 at 7pm. at the Town Hall.
APPOINTMENTS -
Lou Franco, Select Board member - Barb screen-shared the bulletin containing Article 25 from the 5/7/22 Town Meeting, in
regard to waivers. Lou stated that he had raised an objection to the 3rd criterion for waivers at the Town Meeting, but as there
was already roughly 45 minutes of debate, he withdrew his objection. The wording states the Commission can issue a waiver
if it "deéms it to be in the best interest of the town." Lou's objection was that it is too high a bar for an applicant. He would like
to suggest at the November Town Meeting to change the wording to "The Commission deems it to be not counter to the
interest of the town." John noted the Commission is not in the position to determine what is in the best interest for the town.
Paula said the wording makes sense for a single-family house with a failing septic system to connect to sewer via a waiver-
which would not be counter to the best interest of the town. The concern at Town Meeting was in regard to extensions via an
easement for developments. Dave said his concern is the looming big project which will be discussed at the November
Meeting and would like to bring Lou's suggestion to a later Town Meeting. Dave asked Barb's opinion. Barb agreed with the
suggested wording, and thinks it would be easier for the Commission to determine that a request is not counter to the interest
of the Town than that it is in the 'best interest of the Town'. The Commission discussed and agreed with the wording but
would want to wait to a future Town Meeting. Lou replied he appreciated everyone's consideration and will wait to the next
May Town Meeting.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To back burner the proposal until next May's Town Meeting.
Discussion: Dave stated he appreciated Barb's opinion, but he knows there will be heated discussion at the November Town
Meeting concerning other projects in town. (Lou started to reply and the Zoom connection was interrupted.)
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Mike Mohamed & Carlene Baily (I Forno) - Barb noted I! Forno is being charged as non-compliant, because it did not pump
their grease trap on schedule. (Loom recording re-commenced) Mike M. (Forno) agreed they did drop the ball, but they have
learned the lesson and going forward, they will follow up. He added Gary (Grease Trappers) just sent an email, stating he
takes full responsibility for what happened. Dave asked Barb when it was pumped, and she replied in March. The Commission
discussed the issue, noting it is tough running a business-especially after Covid and that Mike M. was honest about what
happened. Paula stated that she has been dealing with the grease traps and has told non-compliant restaurants it is their
responsibility to follow up. She noted the other non-compliant accounts have paid the fee already. They have sent numerous
emails over several months to I! Forno informing them they needed to submit the pumping report. Paula said it was not
pumped in December, despite numerous requests. Barb noted one account paid the fee and went after the grease trap
company for reimbursement, which I! Forno also could do. John said consistency is very important from one restaurant to the
next. Dave noted they all can come before the board. He added there are no excuses but there are reasons, and the reason
was the pumping company changed owners.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To not impose any penalties for Il Forno's non-compliance, due to the circumstances described.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John-nay.
Mike M. thanked the Commission and promised he would follow up with the pumping company. He will not pay them until the
town gets the report.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Pond View 40B project- John noted a lot of information was provided on this project and the ZBA will have a public hearing
for it on 9/14. Paula and Barb put together a list of Pond View Concerns for the Commission to discuss. Paula stated there are
2 proposals for the property - 200 apartments under the 40B proposal and single-family houses. The ZBA is just looking at the
40B apartment project. She added the property is outside of the Sewer Service Area (SSA) and the Bylaw states a vote at
===PAGE 2===
Town Meeting is required to expand the SSA. The applicant is asking the ZBA to waive that requirement, so the question to
the Commission is - does the ZBA have the authority to waive that requirement? Dave replied they do but Paula stated Town
Counsel disagreed in his letter to the HAC. Barb screen-shared the list of Pond View concerns.
• It is preferred to send flows via the Leominster line as there is more capacity. Fitchburg capacity is committed for 66 units
that are paid for in reserve.
• Need to evaluate if the existing pump stations could handle the proposed 44,150 gal/day flow. The Commission
discussed how the sewer line would be routed and assumed it via Beal St. and hook up with the Mass Ave. line, in route
to Leominster. Paula and Dave clarified the ZBA will be holding many public meetings on this. John pointed out there are
roughly 900 sewer users - not the whole town. Paula added the ZBA is the sole approving authority, and it will not come
directly to the Sewer Commission.
• The Connection Fees covers the fees due directly to Fitchburg or Leominster, for maintenance and operational costs. It is
important the applicant knows the fees are not optional.
• Leominster or Fitchburg will have to approve the project per the MA agreement. Dave suggested communicating with
both cities to show what they are up against. He added the city may allow it but not allow any discounts.
• Paula read the regulation for large projects requiring removing 4 gallons of I/I (Inflow/Infiltration) for every gallon/day of
wastewater flow discharged. If there is no l/l to remove, the Commission may require a monetary fee. Paula stated she
was not clear how that fee would be calculated and what it is.
A peer review is required and will need to be paid by applicant. These fees were not included in the application.
A resident engineer is required for oversight and inspections. The costs must be borne by the applicant.
Paula noted the applicants list of costs total just over $59M and they did not include a number of fees. The costs for
Utilities are noted as $4M to cover sewer, water and electric. The extension of sewer, alone, will exceed $4M. Dave said
the projected costs where probably done 6 months ago and they may decide not to do it if it so costly. Paula agreed but
said she wants the applicant and ZBA to understand the extension of the sewer line will be a very costly endeavor. John
noted regarding the Upland project, Wright Pierce estimated the cost would be $1.4M per mile, without any pump
stations. They will also get a cost for laying the sewer line and paving. John added a large pump station would cost $1-
1.5M and a small pump station about $750K. There are a lot of costs not represented in the project plan. Dave suggested
asking Wright Pierce to put together a price estimate for running the sewer line and Barb replied that it would require we
set up a consultant contract with them. Paula added that is why the peer review needs to be paid for by the applicant- not
the Commission. Dave also suggested paying Wright Pierce to come to a ZBA meeting to answer questions. Paula
stated it is preliminary hearing and will go on for months. Brett suggested having John make the strong point that the
applicant's costs are dramatically out of line just for sewer alone and work with Wright Pierce for more detailed costs.
John and Mike N. agreed. John asked Barb to give Wright Pierce the heads up about possible additional work on this
project. Paula also noted the applicant allocated no money for an inspecting engineer or a peer review. The applicant
also only allocated $280K for other consultants, which does not include the peer review of the sewer design and will not
be sufficient. Barb said she would check on the peer review costs in the past but she believes that the peer review is
shared with other departments. Lastly, Paula noted the costs for Roads & Walkways ($600K) does not appear to include
repair to the town roads. Survey permit fees of $160K does not include the anticipated Connection fees of over $2
million.
•
Paula and Barb will need to determine the Committed Capacity for properties bettered but not connected.
• Paula explained the calculation for the Connection Fees, Sewer Bank Fees, Reserve Capacity and Privilege Fees which
would total $2,005,127.50. She is not sure how to calculate the 4:1 I/l fee. Dave pointed out if the project goes through
without collecting all these fees, it will bankrupt Sewer Department. Paula suggested the Commission put together
wording to say the Sewer Dept. cannot cover these costs. Dave asked if anyone has feedback from the Water District.
No one had any but John stated the cost for water would be very expensive and he will check into it. (Paula left meeting).
John will also work with Barb to add a statement on the costs. Dave suggested sending the updated list to all department
heads.
Special Town Meeting November 15, 2022 - Barb screen-shared the 2 stabilization transfers articles. Article 1 is to transfer
back $1,645.60 into the Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund and Article 2 is to transfer $9,900 into the Sewer I/l
Stabilization Fund. The warrant is closing 9/20 and these are the only 2 articles so far.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the two articles as written to be put into the warrant.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
===PAGE 3===
ARPA proposal- John reported Bill put together a proposal for manholes and pump stations. The Town Hall asked to submit it
in a specific format and Bill is working on that. Barb noted it was suggested to re-line the laterals in areas expecting I/l. She
recently talked to Jake Fleming (Leominster) concerning collaborating with them on the re-lining project. He said they have
reached out to Wright Pierce for planning but are not ready to do the project right now. Barb said they contacted Wright Pierce
for potential costs and will add it to the submittal to the Town Manager, due at the end of the month. She will send out the
updated form. Bill stated Heather was asking for more background information as to where the money will be used. Dave
pointed out there were problems when the sewer was installed, and the ARPA money could help correct things. He added the
I/l problem is costing the town a lot of money. Dave would prefer spending money on pump stations and generators, rather
than manhole covers, which are part of the day-to-day operation. Bill clarified manhole repairs are I/l repairs. The Commission
discussed and agreed Bill submit 3 separate projects-Manhole l, Pumphouse upgrades and the lateral lining project in the
Whalom area. Brett noted I/l costs the town a lot of money and to stress the 2 most important projects are I/l and pump
station work. Barb screen-shared the Town Manager's form requested. Bill noted Wright Pierce will come up with a price to
line all the clay pipes in the Whalom area on private property. The Commission agreed to have Bill submit 3 projects and after
they receive Wright Pierce's numbers, they will determine what to add to the Commission's request.
Grease Trap program - Annual permit status -Barb reported there is 1 outstanding Annual permit /payment, which is A&D
Crossroads. When Barb contacted him, he said it had been mailed but she did not receive yet. She requested the
Commission to vote to start the non-compliance process and invoice him $50 non-compliance fee. They will give him 30 days,
or he will be charged $25/day going back to 8/10/22 when the permit was due. Barb clarified A&D Crossroads is the landlord
for the plaza, where Darios and Ixtapa are located.
Motion: Dave M.
Second: Mike N.
To send out the messages per the Business Manager's request to A&D Crossroads.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Barb noted there was 1 other outstanding permit from 8/10, but it was just received. In addition, Ixtapa is also late submitting
a report for their internal trap and if not received by the 9/27 meeting, Barb will request to start the non-compliance process for
them. 1st Tuesday reports Presto Pizza had been closed for vacation but has sent in their logs. The August logs are all in
except for one and Barb or Paula will follow up.
Business Manager retirement - Barb reported she has reconsidered going out on retirement at the first of the year and will
delay it. She has sent copies of her letter to the Commission, HR and the Town Manager.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To allow Barb's retraction of her retirement request.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Minutes of 8/9
Motion: Mike N.
To accept the minutes of 8/9.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye.
Minutes of 8/30
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Dave M.
To accept the minutes of 8/30.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Business Manager Report - In regard to the discussion on 17 Highland St. Privilege Fee at the 8/30/22 meeting, Barb
clarified betterments are assessed over 20 years, but the privilege fee apportionment is only up to 10 years. Therefore, the
privilege fee apportionment for 17 Highland St is for 10 years. Barb added that the year did not enter into the vote but she
wanted to clarify that point. 34-44 Northfield Rd -34 Northfield Rd is new construction and sewer connection. She anticipates
they may receive a request for an easement for 44 Northfield. When #34 Northfield was subdivided, they were unaware that
the sewer for #44 Northfield enters through their property. The owners of #34 and #44 Northfield are working together. The
intent is to get a waiver request to allow #44's sewer line cross #34. Otherwise #44 Northfield, who has been connected to
sewer since 2005, will have to re-plumb their house, in order for the sewer to come out to their frontage. The ANR for #34 did
not show sewer lines, so Paula is working with the Planning Board to make sure the sewer lines are put on all ANR requests.
The connection at #34 is a legal connection and the office is waiting on paperwork. When the Commission receives the
waiver request, they will post a public hearing. Another option would be that the property owners have to buy a portion of land.
Muni-Link Utility Billing program- Barb reported they have scheduled a presentation of the Muni-Link program to the town
manager, accountant and collector in the next week. She also noted the Munis system will be upgraded in February/March
next year. Town Counsel questions- Barb said she would like to ask town counsel about a requirement for clay pipes to be
===PAGE 4===
replaced prior to sale of a property. She has already inquired about inspections for illegal connections, roof drains and sump
pumps to be done before a sale. She noted that now the By-law has been approved, they can move on to policy changes.
FY23 Budget- no update. Invoices - for Control Panel at Mass 3 pump station - $5,984.43 as per quote and was
encumbered from FY22.
Action Items- Brett noted he will not be attending the 9/27 meeting.
Public Comment - Bill reported they received an "OWL" for the conference room which has a speaker and 360-degree
camera for meetings, and it will also broadcast from a laptop to the TV screen.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
September 27, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
October 11, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn at 7:56pm.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Jane 1. Pantry
Jane L. Ranle
Minutes Clerk
Handouts:
Article 25 - 5/7/22 Town Meeting
Pond View Concerns List
Sewer Commission Articles for November Town Meeting
Town Manager's AARP Form
