===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 9/27/22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Mike Deveikis, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden
Dave M., as acting Chair, opened the meeting at 6:02 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission
began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Dave, with a heavy heart, announced that Bill Gustus passed away. He was one of the
original Sewer Commissioners in 2006 and a past Town Manager. Dave added that Linda Betty, also passed
away. Linda was very active with the Lunenburg Lions Club, Boys and Girls Club, and worked with the Salvation
Army numerous times. Barb announced the demand bills for the Q1 billing went out 9/27 and letters were added
to those with outstanding balances from FY22. If those balances are not paid, they will go on the tax bill and can
eventually become a property lien.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Pond View 40B discussion - Barb recapped the ZBA (Zoning Board of Appeals) hearing on 9/14, when the
Commission presented a list of concerns and a letter regarding the project. Dave noted the meeting went well and
there is a long road ahead. The letter put the point across that if they waive the fees, it could put the Sewer
Division into bankruptcy. Dave asked the Commissioners to review the proceedings and to talk to Barb, Paula
and town counsel (during office hours) if they have questions. Bill agreed that Barb and Paula's letter laid out the
concerns well. Dave noted that the next ZBA meeting regarding the 40B project will be on 10/12 at the Town Hall,
focusing on issues of sewer and water. The Commission will work on their presentation at their 10/11 meeting
and Dave urged all to attend the ZBA hearing. Barb stated that the cost of connections presented at the Hearing
was revised from $2,005,127.50 to $1,798,664.82 and a copy was sent to Commissioners and the ZBA. She has
also updated the website with that change and added info to the website regarding the development policy, which
states the Commission's intent is not to enable or control development. Dave reiterated the Commission's job is
not to say yea or nay but to run the business. He also requested that at some time Barb and Paula to write up a
list of definitions, explaining the connection fee, I/l fees, and other fees involved in the business, to bring
everyone up to speed
ARPA proposal - Barb sent out Bill's latest draft of proposals. She noted that the Commission asked Wright
Pierce about the cost of lining the laterals to stop I/l (Inflow/Infiltration). Kevin Wright Pierce) replied that it would
be very expensive and he did not recommend lining the newer pipes, since it would not be as effective against I/l.
At present the ARPA proposal is for the pump stations primarily and the manholes secondary. Bill noted the
proposal is due in by 9/30 and added the $200K proposed for manhole repairs is based on findings from the
Wright Pierce report. The high priority manhole cover repairs were done right away. Bill said the work would be
done in FY23 & 24. Dave asked if they are missing anything from the Maintenance Plan and Bill replied that
there are enough funds to handle the regular maintenance. They really need the money for pump station repairs.
Mike D. asked about repairs to the manhole cover that they'd seen near John St. and the telephone line laying
across the abutting property. He added it could be an arc fault issue if water gets inside during plowing. Bill
replied that they will go ahead with fixing it now, before winter, with regular maintenance funds. Dave noted that
he still wants to explore how to get clay pipes fixed in the Whalom area. The Commission discussed the l/l in the
area, inspections for sump pump violations, lining the clay pipes and possible grants. Barb will be meeting with
Town Counsel to discuss adding 2 policy updates - requiring verification of extraneous lines (roof drains and
sump pumps) and replacement of clay pipes prior to the sale of a house. Dave added that if they can control I/l, it
will save money for the customers. Mike D. suggested homeowners could look at pipe restoration, as opposed to
replacement. (John entered meeting.) John has seen pipe lining but did not know if they can line a clay pipe. The
Commission discussed the l/l issue and past studies. John noted that there are 922 sewer customers and asked
Bill about other sources of grants. Bill replied he found 2 grants but thought the chances were small to get them.
Dave suggested adding a portable generator to the ARPA request, which could be used by other departments.
The Commission discussed looking at a large generator as a backup and Mike D. suggested what size to look for
in a generator. Bill will add it to the proposal.
===PAGE 2===
Grease Trap program - Barb reported that all the annual permit renewals have been received, including those
outstanding. Also all the 1st Tuesday reports have been received.
400 Sunny Hill Rd permit- Barb noted Bill had received the engineered plan for the project and she added a
comment on the online permitting program that they are still waiting for the permit and connection fee payments.
Minutes of 9/13/22 - all agreed to postpone to the next meeting.
Business Manager Report - 43 Summer St. approval- Barb said the Marijuana establishment at the former
Donnelly's Tavern was approved with the Planning Board. She will remind them that they need proof that the
grease trap was decommissioned. Barb asked the Commissioners if they still want her to forward the Planning
Board agendas. John suggested anyone interested should sign up directly and all agreed. Barb will send an email
on how to sign up for the Planning Board emails. Special Town Meeting articles- Barb reported the 2 articles for
stabilization funds have been submitted. 44 Northfield Rd. Waiver request- Barb stated that they have
submitted a request for a waiver, in order to have an easement on 34 Northfield Rd. She received the easement
plan earlier in the day and they are just waiting on the easement document. A hearing notice will be posted in the
9/30 Ledger, and they will have a public hearing for the waiver request at the 10/11 Sewer Commission meeting.
Barb will send the Commissioners the easement plan and the document when available. Both will be available for
the public to view at the Clerk's office. Barb clarified that the sewer was installed at 44 Northfield in 2005 and
when the property was subdivided, they were not aware the line went through the 34 Northfield property. If the
Commission does not approve the waiver, the owners of 44 Northfield would need to replumb the line to go out in
front of their home or purchase the portion of the property from 34 Northfield where the sewer line crosses. Barb
added 44 Northfield was a new purchase this past August and they were not aware of the issue. The people at
34 Northfield are doing new construction and have been very helpful. 1325 Mass. Ave. Change of Use
application- Barb reported Dan Proctor is requesting a change of use at his 1325 Mass. Ave. property and asked
to be on the 10/11 meeting agenda. He is going before the ZBA on 9/28 and he is changing the property, across
from the Mass 1 pump station, to be a storage facility for contractors. It is currently a single family and Barb is
waiting to hear if he will be subdividing into mixed use or total commercial. John asked Barb if the flows will be
comparable to a single-family home, and she replied that she has not received the anticipated flows. Muni-Link
demonstration- Barb and Paula will meet with Town Manager-Heather, Town Collector-Myleen and Town
Accountant-Karen on 9/29. If acceptable with them, the Commission can move forward with the program. FY23
Budget Barb sent out the updated budget and noted that revenues after 8/15 have not been posted in Munis so
the revenues are not up to date. Dave again noted that a list of definitions will also help with the budget process.
Invoices- Fitchburg Usage- $ 15,861.42 (7/26-8/25) approved. Website Updates have been done by Barb -
40B Pond View project, sewer extension information and links, development policy, and information on contacting
the Collector's office for betterment payoff amounts.
Action Items- Dave asked if the conference room hybrid equipment has been set up for Zoom participation. Bill
replied that it has and will try it out soon.
Public Comment - John noted he cannot attend the 10/12 ZBA meeting or the 10/25 Commission meeting.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 11, 2022 @ 6pm - Public Hearing and Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
October 25, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Mike N.
To adjourn at 6:55pm.
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Minutes Clerk
