===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 5-10-22 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Dave MacDonald, Vice-Chair- John Reynolds, Clerk- Brett Ramsden, Member: Mike Nault,
Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Absent: Mike Deveikis
Guests: lan Ainslie (43 Summer St. - Uma Flowers)
Dave opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Dave thanked everyone who came to the Town Meeting and noted that the Commission's
articles all passed, which will help town residents. He also gave a shout out to Moderator Tim Murphy for doing a
great job and added that the new clicker used for voting worked out well.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb reminded all that the Town Election will be on 5/21. Mike Nault and John Reynolds will
be on the ballot for new terms.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
43 Summer St. proposed Marijuana establishment- The Commission agreed to move this topic up on the agenda
with lan Ainslie, site civil engineer present. Barb stated that they received the paperwork and the public hearing on
the conversion of 43 Summer St. to Uma Flowers, for a retail Marijuana dispensary. lan Ainslie added this property
is presently Donnelly's Tavern, at the corner of Summer St. and Youngs Rd. He noted that the most recent sewer bill
is showing 298 gals/day for usage. The Title 5 for retail shows 200 gals/day, which will be a decrease in the amount
of flow. Retail space has less contaminates than a restaurant and he does not anticipate any issues from a technical
point of view. Barb contacted Fitchburg and was told that they have no issues with contaminates as a retail site.
Since it was a restaurant, they asked to have the line camera'd between the building and the main for grease buildup
and defects in the line. lan said that they are working on that. Dave said that if they will not be using the grease trap,
lan should send a letter to Barb, requesting to de-commission the grease trap and have it taken out. Barb clarified
that it is an internal grease trap. Dave added that lan would need a certified plumber to take out the grease trap.
When the plumber sends Barb the proof of the removal, she will take them off the grease trap rolls. lan reported they
will go before Planning Board on 5/23, get permitting in the summer, and open in the fall. Dave welcomed the
business.to Lunenburg and hoped that hey do well. John asked lan how he is involved and he replied he is the site
civil engineer.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the change of use for 43 Summer St. from restaurant to retail.
Roll Call vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye, and Dave -aye.
Barb noted that Brett was also present and he asked what they will be selling. lan clarified it will be adult use
marijuana. Dave asked for a new Roll Call Vote - Mike N.-aye, John-aye, Brett- aye and Dave -aye.
Town Meeting update- Barb reported the budget articles passed under the consent calendar and the Sewer Bylaw
passed with amendments. Now the Bylaw needs to go to the Attorney General for approval. Dave noted the clickers
worked for well for voting and John pointed out that they can now vote anonymously. Dave also said that easements
will still require permission from the homeowner.
Upland/Eastern/White/Maple Parkway extension project- Barb stated that they have been going back and forth
with Wright Pierce regarding which parcels are involved and will hopefully send the letters out in the next week.
Dave noted that it will be a $50K betterment to debt. He added that a portion of White St. was left off and Barb stated
that the extension went up only to Broadmeadow Drive. Wright Pierce said, due to topography, it would have taken a
pump station to go to the end of White St., which would have increased the betterment. Therefore, the letters will go
to residents on White St. up to Broadmeadow Drive.
711 Mass Ave. condo project- Barb sent the Commissioners the peer review from Graves Engineering and noted
that there will be changes to the plan to meet their needs. Barb clarified that Graves works for the Planning Board
and the Commission. They looked at the Sewer Regulations and comments from former DPW Director, Rob Oliva.
Barb expects another plan will be coming from Whitman & Bingham.
===PAGE 2===
SSO Notification Contract with Wright Pierce- Barb noted that the DEP requires a Sanitary Sewer Overflow (SSO)
Notification plan submitted by 7/1. Wright Pierce submitted a quote of $3,400 to do the plan. The contract was
reviewed and approved by Counsel. Barb stated that it is required to submit a form if there is a SSO event and that
SWSS submitted 1 or 2 in the past. The DEP wants all water/wastewater professionals to have a plan in place. Barb
asked for a verbal vote to approve the contract and for everyone to come in to physically sign the contract.
Motion: John R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the SSO Notification contract with Wright Pierce.
Roll Call vote: Mike N.-aye, John-aye, and Dave -aye. (Brett temporarily off the screen)
• Year 3 CTE contract- Barb reported that she notified the Commission that Year 3 contract with CTE has a 4%
increase on Operation & Maintenance (0 & M) and hourly rate for extra services. She added that the Commission
had approved it since CTE has been very conservative with billing of extra charges and that the Procurement Officer
needed a letter of explanation for the file. Barb asked for a vote to accept and send the letter.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To accept the increase to the CTE contract for year 3 and send the letter to the Procurement Officer.
Roll Call Vote - John-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett- aye and Dave -aye.
Meetings discussion- Dave stated that they can go back to in-person meetings or do a combination of in-person
and Zoom. The Commission discussed the 5/31 meeting. John said that he prefers in-person meetings but needs to
go with what medical facilities are requiring of their business. The Commission discussed and voted.
Motion: John R.
Second: Brett R.
To do the 5/31 meeting in person.
John amended the motion to:
To have the 5/31 meeting live, with the option for zoom, for those who are not able to attend in person.
Discussion: Dave confirmed the meetings will be at 6pm. Barb stated the 2nd Tuesday of the month will be at the
DPW building and the last Tuesday will meet at the Town Hall.
Roll Call Vote - John-aye, Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye and Dave -aye.
Minutes for 4/12/22-
Motion: Brett R.
Second: John R.
To accept the Minutes for the 4/12/22 meeting.
Roll Call vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, John-aye, and Dave -aye.
Business Manager Report - Barb reported the new DPW Director, Bill Bernard, is appearing before the Select
Board tonight for ratification and will start the following week if all goes well. There have been no updates on the 40B
project. Barb added it is very important to use your Lunenburg email for all sewer business because with 40B's,
public records are often requested, including emails. Unfortunately, everyone's email address is in the process of
migrating from lunenburgonline.com to lunenburgma.gov. She noted that all employees are being moved first and
her email is now blefebvre@lunenburgma.gov only. Dave asked Barb to send everyone an email with her new email
address and also Paula's email. Barb said that each person will be notified when their email changes and that the
switch has not been seamless. The 5 Chestnut St. article was passed over at town meeting. John asked if anyone
was there to present it and Dave replied yes, but that it was still passed over. Grease Traps - Barb reported A&D
Crossroads has finally submitted all his reports before he was charged $25/day. 1st Tuesday reports - March logs
are all in and there are just 2 April logs left to come in. Invoice: Fitchburg usage -$17,544.79 and Commission
agreed it was acceptable to pay. Barb noted that the Website was updated with information on the new DPW
director. Barb received notice of a public hearing for IL Forno on June 13th with the Planning Board to have a
permanent free-standing pavilion instead of the tent. Dave questioned if they are changing their capacity, which
affects the grease trap. Barb replied that they have gone through 2 different approvals, with no increase in capacity.
John asked if they are looking to disperse the same number of people they have or will the volume increase?. Barb
replied that they've said that it would be the same size as the tent and there would be no increase to seating
===PAGE 3===
capacity. Dave asked Barb to find out from Casey (Building Dept.) if they are changing the ordinance as far as
occupancy; before it was temporary due to Covid restrictions but now it is permanent. The Commission agreed that if
Casey says the capacity is not increasing, they are fine with it. Barb said that the drawing that was sent out is the site
plan of the current tent. It states it will be construction of a 30' x 50' freestanding detached structure in the general
area of the current tent. The special permit was granted in March 2022.
Action Items- Dave noted the new DPW Director will hopefully start around 5/16 and suggested asking Al Packard
to give a tour of the pump stations to the new Director and any Commissioners interested. Brett, Mike N and John
said they would like to do that, and Barb will ask both parties.
Public Comment - Dave wished Mike N. and John good luck on the election. He also said this is his last meeting as
Chair, but he is still staying on the Commission. He is turning it over to the next generation.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
May 21, 2022- Town Election 7am-5pm @ Passios School, 1079 Mass Ave.
May 31, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Town Hall
June 14, 2022 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, DPW Building
Motion: John R.
To adjourn at 6:47pm.
Second: Brett R.
Roll Call vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, John-aye, and Dave -aye.
Respectfully submitted,
