===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 1/10/23 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Clerk- Mike Deveikis, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill
Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Asst. Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk-Jane Ranley
Absent: Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden
John opened the meeting at 6:02 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge
of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT-Dave noted the Select Board meeting at 7pm on 1/10 will be addressing the increases on property tax
bills and urged all to attend.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb reported the tax delinquencies were processed on 12/21/22 and anyone owing from the prior Fiscal
year will see that amount on their tax bill, labeled "sewer lien". If so, users will need to go to the Tax Office to pay and they can
call the Sewer Office with any questions.
APPOINTMENTS - Appointment with Al Packard (CTE) was moved to the 1/31/23 meeting.
Dan Proctor, 1325 Mass Ave Change of Use- Dan stated he had submitted an application for Change of Use for the sewer
line at 1325 Mass Ave. and submitted plans to the Planning Board. He was asking for clarification on flow rates and usages. He
is proposing a 5,400 sq.ft. office building in place of the existing house which is on private septic and not tied into the stub. He
would like to use that 6" stub for commercial use. Barb screen shared the proposed drawing for the property. The 2nd building
will be a 5,000 sq.ft. fitness center but it will not be a gym. Dan noted he talked to Jim Garreffi (Nashoba Board of Health) about
flow rates and asked about options for water readings when the buildings are completed. He is also proposing a Morton building
as a contractor/storage yard, subdivided to 10 or less units for retail and warehouse space. Each unit will have a bathroom, 10
bathrooms total. Barb also talked to Jim Garreffi, and he is aware of a couple stand-alone fitness centers for flow calculation
comparisons. His preference for the contractors building would be to use Title V warehouse flows/person for total of 60/gals per
unit per day. Dave asked about floor drains and Dan replied the individual units will not have spigots or floor drains. The Sewer
Commission discussed the water for the bathrooms and washing trucks. Dan stated he would prefer to not allow vehicles to be
washed in the bays. However he could put floor drains in each unit, which would go to a MDC trap, which would be maintained
once a year. Paula asked if they would be tracking the pumping of the MDC trap, similar to the grease trap program. John
agreed it should be monitored and we should check on Uniti's trap cleaning. Dan said Wind River comes every November or
January to clean the trap at the Whalom car wash and he has the reports. Paula asked Dan to email copies to the office. Bill
had concerns on snow storage signage but no further questions on sewer. Dan replied he is waiting for a peer review by Graves
Engineering and he will have signage noted on the plan. (Dave M. and Paula left the meeting)
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Il Forno - Pumpouts at maximum for Fats, Oil & Grease (FOG) -Barb reported I! Forno's last 3 pump out FOG reports have
been at or above the 25% cap and they have been warned to not exceed 25%. Barb requested that we inspect the facility,
checking the internal traps and see the logs for those traps. We will advise the restaurant that they need to increase the
frequency of external pumping. It is currently every 12 weeks now. John suggested increments of 4 weeks so that means that it
should be done within 8 weeks of the last pumpout. Barb noted in the past that the Commission wanted to be involved in the
inspections, but the external traps are usually pumped before sunrise. The Commission discussed and it was decided Paula
and Bill would do the inspecting with Al Packard (CTE).
Pond View Estates 40B John stated stated memos were sent to the Zoning Board of Appeals - one regarding Fitchburg and the
other for Leominster. The Commission prefers the flow go to Leominster, due to Fitchburg capacity. The Mass Ave 2 & 3 pump
stations' pumps are close to capacity and need to be evaluated. Al Packard (CTE) said the Dana St. station would need a new
10,000 gallon well for surge and that we need to look at capacity for the 6 line going down Whalom Rd. Barb reiterated that we
need to have a plan peer reviewed to look at these issues. She noted that she had also sent the memos to Town Counsel. The
ZBA meeting will be 1/11 via Zoom.
Policy Updates-Barb reported the Commission had reviewed the policy updates required by Fitchburg for Chapter 147 and the
Bylaw was passed, to allow only 1 public hearing for regulation changes. John asked the Commissioners to review the updates
and either vote on them at the next meeting or arrange a special meeting for discussion. Barb noted that we will also look at
adding policy regarding report submittal for the oil-water separator traps. In addition, she would like to add a requirement to go
back only 6 months for adjustments to bills.
===PAGE 2===
FY24 Budget preparation- Barb has not received the budget submittal schedule but they usually start at the end of January
and get a draft to the Town Manager by early February. She can have a draft by the end of January to review. John and Barb
will discuss whether to have a workshop meeting to discuss it. Barb will also involve Paula in the budget planning process.
Discussion on Umbrella Contract with Engineering consulting firm, Wright Pierce - John suggested setting aside $1-2K
for seeking answers to engineering related questions. Barb said that we should have a contract and have done this in the past
with Wright Pierce. Barb noted that we have $30K in the budget for engineering and she would need a Purchase Order to pay
them. The Commission discussed and Mike N. asked if it would need to go out to bid. Barb replied that it is a small amount
which would not require a bid process. The Commission agreed to vote.
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Mike D.
To set $2,500 aside to contract with Wright Pierce for consulting services.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye and John-aye.
Minutes of 12/10/22 - tabled to the next meeting.
Town Caucus 3/27/23 - Mike Deveikis and Brett Ramsden have terms expiring. Mike D. will let the Commission know if he will
be running again.
Business Manager retirement replacement - Barb requested the Commission approve the posting of her job immediately and
said that they have a candidate who is interested. The Commission discussed it and Mike N. suggested having flexibility in the
hours. Barb replied that the candidate is ok with 40 hrs. and added that changing the job description to a range of hours would
need to be discussed with the Personnel Committee. The Commission discussed and agreed to have it posted at 40 hours.
Business Manager Report - Grease Trap program update- Most of the 1st Tuesday reports are in, with one still due. Annual
Town Meeting warrant opened on 1/10/23 and will close 3/20/23. Barb asked the Commissioners to think about any articles
they would want brought to Town Meeting in May. Barb received the request for the Annual Report - due 2/16 and asked if
anyone on the Commission would be interested in taking it on. She noted that Jane had done it in recent years. With no takers,
Jane volunteered to do the report again. Invoices- Fitchburg Monthly - $18,262.14 and Mead, Talerman - $ 123.76 (for Pond
View consult were reviewed and approved. Upcoming ZBA hearings- On 1/25, 2 properties on sewer - 383 Whalom (new
Auto Repair business) and 10 Richard Way (for accessory building for 8 Richards Way) are going before the ZBA but for issues
not involving sewer. Leominster NDES Permit- Barb reported Leominster is in the middle of getting their permit from EPA and
that she has sent the EPA links to maps, CWMP and maintenance plan information. The SSO (Sanitary Service Overflow)
Notification Plan for the Sewer System was approved 12/30/22 by Mass. DEP, which was submitted last June. Barb noted that
she will be on vacation next week. Action Items- none
Public Comment - Bill reported, regarding the maintenance plan, they will be doing jetting soon in the following areas: Main St.
near Town Hall, Sunny Hill Rd., Mass Ave. near Public Safety Building, and several small roads off Whalom Rd. Bill will be
contacting a couple contractors.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
January 31, 2023 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
February 14, 2023 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Mike N
To adjourn at 7:08
Second: Mike D.
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike D.-aye and John- aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Your h. Pandey
Handouts: Proposed Site Plan for 1325 Mass. Ave. (screen-shared)
