===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 2/07/23 Sewer Commission Budget Workshop- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Member: Mike Nault, DPW Director- Bill Bernard,
Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Assistant Business Manager- Paula Bertram and Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Mike Deveikis and Dave MacDonald
John opened the meeting at 6:02 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- John stated that he'd put in a deduct/irrigation meter this week. He noted that the Commission
requires a copy of the plumbing permit be submitted to the Sewer Department when the sign-off of the plumbing
inspector is submitted, which does not make sense. The plumbing inspector would not sign-off if he did not have a
permit. He suggested the Commission discuss it at the next meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS-
FY24 Budget discussion- Barb screen-shared the FY24 Budget draft and John clarified they will be reviewing the
individual line items for the budget. Barb went over the figures for Revenues, explaining her formulas for calculation.
Expected user charges are $1.2M. (927 users), Deduct meters - $2,800 for 54 users, Connection Fees - $17K
(assuming 6 new connections), Sewer Bank and Drain Layer fees. Grease Trap permit fees - Commission
discussed not charging any fees to those compliant, however Barb noted even compliant accounts involve
administrative time. She proposed charging $50 for internal traps and $100 for external interceptors if compliant.
They are not allowed to budget for non-compliant fees, as they are unpredictable. Barb clarified that the Reserve
Capacity fees are collected on an expanded use and put aside for any future expense for capacity by Fitchburg or
Leominster. The Reserve Capacity Fund transfer for the John Fitch Highway debt is fully-funded this year but will
need to pull from funds for next year. Sewer bank- $9,900 was collected last year and put in stabilization. We are
required to spend money every year on I/l remediation and for this budget we've estimated spending $10K. The
Capital Reserve Fund transfer is for unplanned expenses. The 3 ARPA funding requests that are included in
revenues are spent in Capital Expenditures, so they are 'a wash'. Barb will talk with the Town Manager regarding
having these funds included in this budget.
Payroll - has largely estimated figures as there will be changes in the department and there is also a Cost Of Living
(COLA) increase of 3.5%.
Purchase of Service - Infrastructure - Pump station repairs - for $20K. Paula noted that she'd reviewed the
Sewer Maintenance Report and asked Bill to clarify what the $2OK addresses. Bill replied the system is getting older
and they have been upgrading certain systems. In 2020, they spent $47K, so he bumped it up to $20K from $10K
last year. Paula asked if safety issues at the pump stations in the report have been addressed. Bill agreed that it
needs to be looked at and Barb added that Al Packard(pump station contractor may have addressed some of the
issues. Paula asked about money in the budget for a tracking system activity. Barb replied they keep logs for pump
station activity in Excel worksheets. John noted the Commission used to get Excel spreadsheets almost every
meeting and Barb replied Al is working on getting us the electronic reports. John suggested looking into formalizing it
and consider adding it to the CTE contract. Paula suggested that they look at issues at Dana St., Francis Ave.,
Leominster Rd., Twin City, Mass Ave #1, and West St. Bill said the safety issues would be for laypersons entering
the station and he will discuss this with Al. Barb noted a 3-year O&M contract will need to be renegotiated for the
coming fiscal year and will need to go out to bid. Sewer lines-Jetting increased to $15K. Manhole repairs - $10K.
Meter pits/flow meters - $5,400 for lease of the meters. I/l Remediation - $10K. Outsourcing - was increased to
$120K for the new O&M contract because it will be a new contract. Generator Maintenance Contract with Weld- $7K.
Administration consulting services - Paula noted this item is to fund having Barb come in to consult and/or cover
the office as needed after she retires. John pointed out it is a new line for $12K and all agreed. Billing outsourcing
- Barb stated that this item had been for outsourcing the bill print and stuffing process but she has taken it off since
they are not actively pursuing this option. Paula added Munis offers a bill and stuff services which they could explore
in future years. Barb added that Munis offers emailing for billing with the cloud-based upgrade and Paula will look into
it. Barb noted that they have been using the classic version of Munis but will eventually be on the cloud with Munis.
Meter reading licensing-is the Northern Data contract. Sewer stub installation - to pay for locating a stub that
cannot be located by an as-built or ties. Legal - budgeted yearly at $5K. Barb stated the IMA with Leominster is
===PAGE 2===
expiring the end of June 2024 and they may want Town Counsel to be involved. If so, they may want to increase the
figure. Engineering services - was increased to $30K because of the 40B questions and pump station upgrades,
plus $5K for flow meter data and calibration, for a total of $35k.
Utilities - are projected estimates for water, electricity, postage, phone, and diesel fuel.
Other Departmental Expenses- Barb stated these are nominal amounts for Advertising (posting hearings in the
Ledger), Office and Field supplies and Subscription to the Ledger. Capital plan -was set at $96K in case the ARPA
Funds are not received ($56K for planned pump station upgrades and $40K manhole maintenance). If ARPA funds
become available, they will track them under Capital. Bill noted the manhole repair involves patching the inside for I/l.
Paula asked if they would add manhole inspection to the RFP for the new O&M contract and Bill replied it would be
better to use a consultant. John noted Wright Pierce did an inspection of every manhole. Paula stated the 2020
Maintenance Plan noted they inspected 392 manholes in 2014 and recommended corrective actions. Capital also
includes Leominster Debt Service (increased to $56K for FY24 for additional debt coming due) and Fitchburg Debt
(JF Highway improvement). Leominster Usage is projected as $520K and Fitchburg Usage as $220K.
Leominster connections - Barb noted they pay $750 for every connection and is based on 5 residential
connections. Fitchburg connections estimate is set at 1 connection for $2000. Indirect costs - come from the
town accountant and again, they are estimated with personnel changes and cover fringe benefits and health
insurance. Barb noted the transfer is $87K and includes 15% of Bil's time. John summarized by saying that there is
nothing to reduce or eliminate in this operating budget, but they may need more money for some items. Town
Meeting transfers - Barb stated they historically transfer 3% of revenue to Capital Reserve/Stabilization Fund for
emergencies of substantial nature. OPEB funding- usually put $656 since FY19 but Barb suggested increasing to
$1K and will discuss with the Town Accountant. Reserve capacity transfer - Barb noted that per the notes from last
year, the plan was to transfer 20% of the Stabilization Fund balance for the next 5 years to defray the JF Highway
costs and Leominster debt service. She re-stated that the ARPA money, if received, will appear in revenues and
spent as expenses.
Total Expenses- $2.1 million and Total revenues- $ 1.9 million. Barb added the deficit of $183K will be adjusted
after she works through the betterments and debt service. The Commission does not need to balance it now as this
is just a preliminary operating budget draft for the Town Manager. The Commission will discuss the budget in future
meetings. Paula noted the Wright Pierce 2014 report showed 5 manholes needing significant improvements and 42
needing moderate. Barb said they have been working on them and John suggested using the original report noting
the 392 manholes inspected to track work done. Barb noted that there is a manholes spreadsheet that should
indicate when work has been done.
Public Comment - none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
February 14, 2023 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 7:30pm
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, and John-aye.
Handouts: FY24 Budget draft was screen-shared.
