===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes of 2/14/23 Sewer Commission meeting- via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair-John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW
Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Barb Lefebvre, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Clerk- Mike Deveikis
John opened the meeting at 6:02 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying
the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- none
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Barb wished everyone a Happy Valentine's Day and announced that they will have a public
hearing on 2/28 for policy updates.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
FY24 Budget discussion- Barb screen shared the budget draft and noted the draft goes to the Town Manager first.
It will be on the agenda again for 2/28 and will need to be finalized for the FinCom presentation on 3/23.Dave asked if
they are carrying any line item in regard to the 40B project. Barb replied that the case has been sent off to the
Housing Appeals Committee(HAC), and it may take almost a year for a response. John noted the engineering
services line was increased for questions about the 40B or others. Barb stated that the ARPA funds are listed as a
placeholder. The Commission agreed to discuss the budget again at the 2/28 meeting. Dave asked if rates were
going up for Fitchburg or Leominster. Barb replied both increased last year, Fitchburg having a big increase the last
couple years. She will check on both.
Policy Changes - Grease Trap and Oil/Water Separator Regs- Barb sent the Oil/Water separator regulation to
Town Counsel and counsel expressed his concern with not charging a flat fee for an annual permit on both the
Oil/Water Separator and the Grease Trap Regulations. She proposes that they change the annual permit fee to
$150/year for internal grease traps, external interceptor and oil/water separator. They will have to enforce penalties
after 30 days and send out a bill for $100 for non-compliance(instead of assessing the non-compliance annually). If
they are still non-compliant after 30 days, they will begin the $25/day fine. The Commission discussed the changes
and agreed on them.
Deduct Meter Policy-Barb noted that she removed the requirement of the applicant providing a copy of the
plumbing permit, per John's suggestion. The Commission agreed.
Motion: Mike N.
Second: Brett R.
To approve the policy changes on 2/14/23 Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Notice for the Public Hearing on the policy changes will be in the 2/17/23 Lunenburg Ledger and the tracked
documents will be available at the sewer office and the Town Clerk's office.
Business Manager replacement - Barb reported they are waiting for the Town Manager to make the appointment
at the 2/28 meeting and the Commission will vote to ratify. Dave asked if the new business manager will be on the
Personnel Committee and Barb confirmed that the Business Manager is on the SAP and that is administered by the
Personnel Committee.
Assistant Business Manager opening- will be posted after the new Business Manager is appointed.
Annual Report-Barb noted a correction that John and Mike N. were both elected to 3-year terms. Barb confirmed
that the town meeting article figures were per the warrant article.
Q3 FY23 Commitment $249,280.14-Barb stated the Q3 bills went out on 2/1/23 and the Commissioners need to
vote to approve the Committment.
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To approve the Q3 FY23 Commitment of $249,280.14.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, and John-aye.
Pond View Estates 40B - Barb noted the stipulation and waiver denial documents that the ZBA processed at the
hearing on 2/8 were sent to the Housing Appeals Committee and Town Counsel said it may take 9-12 months for a
ruling. The Commission agreed to keep it on the agenda for visibility.
Minutes of 1/31/23-
===PAGE 2===
Motion: Dave M.
To accept the minutes for 1/31/23.
Second: Mike N.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Business Manager Report - Grease Trap program- Barb reported that I! Forno will have a pump-out on 2/17/23 by
Agri-Cycle and Al Packard will be present, as well as any others who want to attend. They are also still talking about
setting up internal trap inspections and Barb will advise when it will be done. Dave asked if the Lunenburg Board of
Health does inspections and Barb said she will check. A&D submitted a half-finished report that showed it was
pumped out within the correct time-frame, but Paula sent it back to Wind River for completion. They have not
received any of the $25/day fees that were assessed since 11/11/22 for non-compliance. They will keep checking on
it and will let David Brambila know that he needs to meet all compliance. Board of Health has also been informed.
Wind River's report recommended a 12-month pumping frequency but Barb and Paula disagree with that, as the
regulations state a minimum of every 6 months unless they apply for a waiver. They will check with Wind River for
more information because this site usually requires more frequent pumpings. All of the 1st Tuesday logs are in.
Wright Pierce Consulting contract - Barb reported that Town Counsel accepted the format for this general
engineering services agreement and the task order is acceptable. It just needs to be signed by the Town Manager
Motion: Brett R.
Second: Mike N.
To accept the contract from Wright Pierce for $2,500.
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Town Caucus 3/27/23 - Barb noted that Mike Deveikis will not be running again but Brett is considering another run.
Brett confirmed.
Invoices-none.
Action Items- Dave asked to review the Maintenance Plan again and inquired if the plan was in the budget as a
separate line item so the DPW Director knows how much he has to spend. Barb replied it is scattered throughout the
budget. Bill confirmed that the planned Capital Expenditures(line 5a) has $96K for planned expenses $56K for pump
station upgrades and $40K for manhole repairs. Jetting is separate under purchase of service (line 1c). Potential
ARPA funds are shown as revenues and expenses as a wash, so if the ARPA funds are not received, those lines will
come out with no effect on the budget.
Public Comment - Dave wished all a Happy Valentine's Day. Barb reminded all that the next meeting will be a
public hearing at the start and the Town Manager will be attending to appoint the new Business Manager. Dave
noted that Barb has 21 workdays left before retirement.
Motion: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:47pm.
Second: Mike N
Roll Call Vote: Brett-aye, Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Handouts: FY24 Budget draft was screen shared.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
February 28, 2023 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
March 14, 2023 @ 6pm - Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
