===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 5/30/23 Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)  
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Members: Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault, DPW 
Director- Bill Bernard, Business Manager-Paula Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Guest: Mr. Brambila (A&D Crossroads), Mike Mackin 
John opened the meeting at 6:00pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT- Brett noted he was sworn in for his new term. Dave thanked Jane for working at polls and said 
he liked the new check-in system. He said Mike Mackin was interested in the Commission and would be observing 
the meeting.  
ANNOUNCEMENTS – none 
CURRENT BUSINESS -  
Minutes of 4/11/23- 
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dave M. 
To approve the minutes of 4/11/23.                             Roll Call: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye. 
 
Minutes of 5/9/23-    
Motion: Mike N.                                                                                                                                 Second: Brett R. 
To approve the minutes of 5/ 09/23.                             Roll Call: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John-aye. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
ARPA Funding- Dave asked if the ARPA funds were being taken back as part of the debt ceiling discussion, but no 
one had any information. John complimented Paula on her ARPA presentation package. She noted the Town 
Manager requested the Commission put the presentation together and have a member present it. The Commission is 
requesting $200K for manhole repairs. Paula went through the manhole inspection reports of 2016 and 2020. She 
focused on Electric Ave., Mass. Ave. and a few areas off of Mass. Ave. Joe Progen and Jack Welsh (DPW) visited 
the manholes on the initial list and agreed on all. The ARPA request would repair the following manholes: 19 on 
Electric Ave. ($47,420), a frame replacement at the High School ($1,890), 41 on Mass. Ave. ($95,410), 3 at 
Meadowwoods ($6,930), 4 at Primary School ($15,120) and 15 on Richard’s Way ($ 28,550). The repairs to these 84 
manholes would cost $195,320. Paula stated the yearly budget is limited and they have only been able to fix 8-10 per 
year out of the 168 in need of repair. She has put together a PowerPoint presentation to explain that need. Paula 
noted the 2nd component of the request is for $300K for the pump stations. Paula, Bill and Al put the following list 
together: 6 Dialers (Dana, Electric, Twin City, Francis, Leominster Rd, and Mass 1, 4 Pumps (Leominster, West, Twin 
City and Francis), Panel Upgrade at West, Motor Shaft at Mass 1, Impellers (Dana, Leominster and Mass 1), and 
Generators (Electric, Twin City and Meadowwoods), for a total of $305K. Paula noted the cost of repairs to each 
manhole may differ, depending on the amount of repair to be done. The prices were based on Wright Pierce’s 2015 
pricing, updated using a cost escalator. Joe (DPW) stated Tango Construction did the repairs on 2A, and the 
concrete was brought up too high, which caused damage. Dave suggested having the manholes inspected prior to 
adding asphalt. Bill said he has the DOT plans that show how to rebuild up to grade. Paula will also include 5 maps 
of the highlighted manholes. John pointed out the repairs were based on the 2015 study and manholes may now be 
worse off.  Paula asked the Commission to vote to send the proposal. Mike asked about manholes that could be 
eliminated. Paula replied if they have some close together, they could line the pipe, and eliminate some manholes 
from the list. The presentation will be 6/6 and John will be able to attend. 
Motion: Dave M.                                                                                                                            Second: Mike N. 
To recommend sending the ARPA proposal to the Board of Selectmen as soon as possible for their review, 
considering today is Tuesday and go from there as far as  when they do the presentation.  
Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John -aye. 
   
APPOINTMENTS:   A&D Crossroads – Non-Compliance Hearing – Mr. Brambila - Paula stated she met with a 
representative from Ixtapa Restaurant and detailed numerous issues with getting reports for pump outs. Multiple 
emails and certified mail letters also were sent. The system was due for a pump out on 10/12 but they did not receive 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
a report in November or December. The Commission voted to implement the non-compliance process and requested 
the report by January 26th or fines would be implemented from 11/11/22 to 3/1/23. They received a report on 2/17/23 
and the Commission voted to implement the fine of $25/day, plus the $50 non-compliance fee.  (Mr. Brambila had 
difficulty logging on but finally was able to join the meeting.) Paula noted they had sent numerous communications to 
the property owner, who is the brother of Mr. Brambila, but received no response. Finally on 3/1/23, they received the 
report they were looking for and sent A&D Crossroads a fine invoice of $2,525. Again there was no response, so a 
hearing notice was sent to the property owner, Ixtapa and Darios restaurants.  Darios has since closed their 
business. Paula met with a representative from Ixtapa and a translator to discuss the situation. They stated the 
system was pumped on 5/24 and Paula received a report from the pumping company but the report did not have all 
the required information on the amount of FOG and sludge. She sent an email, asking for the correct report. They 
have been out of compliance for 99 days. Mr. Brambila stated he received the letters and emails which he forwarded 
to his brother. He has scheduled pumpings every 3 months with the company. The system was pumped 9/28, 2/8 
and 5/24. John asked when the non-compliance began and Paula replied the system was due to pump 10/12, but the 
report did not arrive until 2/17/23. The report is due 30 days after a pumping. Brett said over several months, the 
business manager and the Commission spent lot of time. They need something to cover for all the time and 
frustration.  Dave asked Mr. Brambila why he did not call back and he replied his brother hired the company to do the 
pumping but they did not send the reports on time. Dave said the Commission is upset because they did not respond 
for 5 months. Paula stated the big problem is the pumping company was not doing the reports correctly. The report 
they finally received on 2/17 but it did not have the relevant information filled out. Wind River pumped on 5/26, but it 
was not the correct report. Mr. Brambila noted they have hired a new company - Bay State Sewage Disposal, Inc.-to 
do the pumpings. Paula reiterated the fine is $2,525 for 11/11/22 to 2/17/23. The Commission discussed and agreed 
Mr. Brambila could have saved a lot of frustration and time if he had responded on time. Also this was not the first 
time they were non-compliant. Dave suggested reducing the fine to $750, with more severe fines, if it happens again. 
The Commission agreed.  
Motion: Dave M.                                                                                                                                 Second: Brett R. 
To reduce the fine for A & D Crossroads to $750 towards his $2,525 fine, to be paid immediately.  
Roll Call: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye. 
Paula asked Mr. Brambila to have Wind River send the correctly filled-out report to the office within a week in order to 
be compliant. He also needs to pay the $750 and remain in compliance. Mr. Brambila agreed to do so. 
CURRENT BUSINESS (con’t)  
Woodard & Curran Sewer System Infiltration Review- Paula screen-shared her notes from the Woodard & Curran 
2020 report. John stated they have been talking about I/I (Inflow/Infiltration) in the Whalom area and this report 
shows I/I issues outside of the Whalom district. John asked all to take a close look at the report and possibly re-
evaluate where they attack the I/I.  They need to look at the report in context of the manholes to I/I and the Capital 
Budget. Bill said they need to repair manholes to address I/I issues and to look at the operation of the pump stations. 
The report supports the Commission’s request. John noted they need to get pump station reports on a regular basis.  
Paula received some reports for January 1st through May from Al Packard and Bill had some questions about the 
data. Paula and Bill will meet with Al to go over the reports he submitted.  
IMA Negotiations- John stated they cannot go into executive session to discuss and he would like to keep it to a 
non-quorum group meeting with Leominster Sewer Dept., with updates to the rest of the Commission. Paula 
confirmed that Town Counsel said they cannot use Executive Session to discuss the negotiations, except in the final 
stages. Paula read the email from Town Counsel that stated negotiations need to be done within a small non-quorum 
group, bringing it to the full public body when necessary. The Commission gave Dave permission to talk to Town 
Counsel during open hours on 6/21. Dave said the next meeting with Leominster has not been scheduled. Paula 
noted Wright Pierce said the testing requirements in the new NFTS permit draft are onerous and costly. Kevin Olsen 
(Wright Pierce) said many communities are pushing back on the requirements. Paula asked for Commission approval 
to send a letter in support of eliminating those requirements, based on Jake Fleming’s comments. The Commission 
agreed.  Dave said the meeting went well and thanked Paula, Bill and the Town Manager for their assistance.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Capital Planning- Bill & Paula met with Al Packard on 5/24 and things have changed. They need panels at West St. 
and Francis St., but the dialers and seals can wait. The revised list is: 3 cranes, block heaters, a panel and a dialer at 
Meadowwoods for a total of $45,237.80. Paula noted the budget will cover that and she sent the Commissioners an 
updated sheet. Al is recommending going with the SKADA system. Bill and Paula asked Al for access to the system 
which can be done off-site remotely.  Al would like to put Dana and Mass 1 in the SKADA and estimates they will be 
$16K each. He also suggested getting on a program for battery replacement every 3 years and Paula developed a 
database to track that. Also he asked to do annual pump outs November/December. Bill stated some of the fences 
around the pump stations were damaged and Al suggested fixing them. Paula and Bill suggested tracking inventory 
on-site, in space at the DPW building. Al will check if they already have some of the pumps. John asked if the Town 
or Al would track the inventory and Bill replied they will work together. John offered to help and would like to learn 
more about the SKADA system. Paula and Bill want to get familiar with SKADA and Al will be getting them access.   
Dave suggested meeting with Leominster to discuss technology and the system they are using. Paula said she would 
reach out to Jake Fleming regarding the manhole lining and SKADA. Dave suggested having the meeting via zoom.  
Leominster -Shirley Corridor Development/Mass Works Grant - Paula reported the Selectmen are working on a 
grant for next year due to the possible construction of 5 large commercial buildings across from the large new 
warehouse. She told the Town Manager the Commission would like to have input in the grant process. 
Assistant Business Manager - Paula noted the position is on hold. It is currently 24 hrs. with benefits, but Paula 
does not believe it needs to be 24 hrs. or benefited.  John agreed and Dave suggested offering the position to a job 
training program. Paula said the job needs to be more than clerical and she will need someone who can cover when 
she is out for any extended period. Bill agreed and the Commission discussed the position. Paula has a candidate 
interested in the non-benefited position but they cannot change the job unless it is negotiated with the union. They 
are currently in discussions for the new contract and if they change the position, they will have to do collective 
bargaining. Bill agreed the position can be less than 20 hours because Paula has streamlined the business but they 
need someone that can learn the day-to-day job. Paula asked the Commission to vote on the change.    
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                  Second: Mike N. 
To change  the hours for the Assistant Business Manager position from 24 hours benefited to under 20 hours 
unbenefited.                                                           Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-aye and John-aye. 
 
Action Items- Dave suggested looking into Leominster’s ideas on manholes.  
Business Manager Report – FY23 Budget Update -Paula sent out the current budget and upped the amount for I/I, 
to address some manholes other than the ARPA funding. They have added $28K for jetting. Bill noted he obtained an 
estimate of $4,800 per week to rent a jetting truck. If they hire a company such as Clean Basins, their cost is $2,500-
2,800/day. Bill said the DPW crew would do the jetting and Al Packard will assist. He will rent the truck for 2 weeks 
and start jetting lines. John asked if the DPW labor would come out of the Sewer or DPW budget and Bill will look 
into it. Paula added there may be some fees for Al. Dave suggested Bill invoice the Sewer Department for time and 
labor. Bill plans on jetting 3 miles. System Maintenance Update - Paula and Bill gave the ok to CTE to order 3 
cranes. Weld Generator has changed out batteries. They are looking at replacing some screens, did a pump at 
Meadowwoods, control panels at West St. and Francis. Paula said she has a log at each station which she can send 
to the Commissioners and is tracking maintenance and parts replacement at each station. Grease Trap Compliance 
- all reports are in except Conrad’s and Paula will follow up with them.  Il Forno -Paula did not get their report on time 
and sent an email. She has since received it. Vacation- Paula gave her dates for vacation in July and August.  
PUBLIC COMMENT –John thanked Michael M. for sitting in on the meeting and hoped he would join them. Mike M. 
said he enjoyed the discussions and he is interested. Dave noted he would need to be appointed by the Select 
Board. Dave also congratulated Brett on getting 2nd place in number of votes at the town election and thanked him for 
stepping up for another term.  
  
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
June 12, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation   
===PAGE 4===
 
 
June 27, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
July 11, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
July 25, 2023 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation  
 
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                                 Second: Mike N. 
To adjourn  at 7:44pm.                                                  Roll Call: Mike N.-aye, Dave-aye, Brett-aye and John -aye. 
                                 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
Handouts:           
               P. Bertram Notes on Woodard & Curran 2020 3rd Party review – screen-shared. 
               Adam Costa (Counsel) email regarding IMA Negotiations read by Paula. 