===PAGE 1===
Minutes of  12-10-24  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  Mike Mackin , Vice-Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Clerk- Scott Dall , Member -Joe 
Hurley , DPW Directo r-  Bill Bernard , Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent:  Eli Torres
Mike  opened the meeting at 7 :02  pm.  and did a roll  call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT -
ANNOUNCEMENTS  – Mike noted  that this will be the only  meeting for December .
CURRENT BUSINESS –
-- Business Manager Position New Hire – Bill reported that they interviewed Andrew V alliere  
twice . Carter (Interim Town Manager) suggested having Andrew come in and observe  Paula 
w orking on the  billing. Andrew stayed to observe for 5 hours and also  sent follow-up  emails. 
They o ffered him the job and if ratified by the Commission will start January 6th . Brett noted that 
Andrew  knows sewer and customer service. He added that it was pretty positive  that he showed 
up and stayed 5 hours to observe the billing process. Bill s aid he drew up a l ist of 
competencies /tasks that Andrew should know within a few months.  The n ext bill run ; he  will 
need to work with Paula . Mike asked if they should go into Executive  Session to discuss 
personnel issues and Bill replied he would check into that. Brett asked if they contacted previous
employers and Bill replied they contacted 2 who gave positive reports. 
Motion: Brett R.                                                                                                                               
Second: Sc ott  D.
To hire  Andrew  Valliere as our new Business Manager for Lunenburg  Sewer Commission .
Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye, Brett-aye and Mike-aye.
-- Absent Member – Bill  reported that there is nothing in the by-laws regarding attendance and 
Eli has not responde d  to email s . Mike suggested amending the by-laws regarding attendance. 
Brett  added that if Eli does not show for the caucus, he will not be on the ballot.
-- DPW Director Updates –
      i. 2 nd  Quarter Billing – Bill stated that Paula came in a few nights  and they got the bills out. 
During the process , they found a  couple problems  and also  had to bring in a  consultant to help. 
He added that the Commission need ed to vote to accept the commitment. They also had a lot of
calls with questions about the bills.
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                              
Second: Joe H.
To a pprove  the 2 nd  Quarter commitment  for $325,576.84 .
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-aye, Brett-aye and Mike-aye.
    ii. Assistant  to Business  Manager- Bill  said they will need to reach out to prior candidates .
   iii. Manhole Work - Bill reported that it went out to bid and they had a low bidder. The contract 
is in place  and he  assumes they will come in the spring to do the work. Mike asked where the 
work will be done  and Bill replied that Paula put together a spreadsheet of manholes that I/I was 
getting into. They will be targeting the worst ones with linings, wall repairs  and  patching around 
pipes.
   iv. Line Repairs – Mass 1 – Bill stated that the work  went smooth ly  and he will get a price for 
the same work at Dana St . Station . Scott asked if the town had explored their own treatment 
system and Bill replied they have but it would be huge money. He added that one of the b iggest 
challenge  would be where the outflow would go.  Also  the  stations are coming close to their 
===PAGE 2===
designed  life . Joe asked if th ere is any transparency to the rate increases from Fitchburg and 
Leominste r. Mike replied that they negotiate with both towns and Bill added it is a  25 year  
agreement  but they are still able to raise their rates.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
December 24 , 202 4  – No Meeting
January 1 4 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Hybrid Meeting
January 28 , 2025 @ 6pm – Zoom  Meeting
Febru ary 1 1 , 2025 @ 7 pm – Hybrid  Meeting
Motion:  Joe H.                                                                                                                         Second:
S cott  D.
To adjourn  at 7:28pm                                          Roll Call  Vote : J oe -aye , Scott -aye , Brett -aye  & 
Mike -aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk