
Minutes of 9/17/24 Sewer Commission Joint meeting with Board of Selectmen, Town Hall, 17 Main St. 
Attendees: Sewer Commission: Brett Ramsden (Vice-Chair) and Mike Mackin (Clerk)
Board of Selectmen: Caesar Nuzzolo (Chair), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Vice-Chair), Amanda Moore (Clerk), Tom Alonzo, and Renee Emkey. Also Carter Terenzini (Interim Town Manager) 
Guests: Joe Hurley, Scott Dall, Eli Torres and Tom Indge
Caesar stated that they have 4 applicants for the 3 vacancies on the Sewer Commission and told the applicants that one person will not be chosen but there are openings on other boards. He noted that there are currently only 2 members on the Sewer Commission so they cannot open or close this meeting, but they can participate and vote on the candidates. Caesar called up each candidate to introduce themselves.
---Joe Hurley stated that he is interested in civil engagement and contributing to the town. He works as a regional manager for organic food store chain and is a sewer customer.  He feels his management skills would help him contribute to the Commission.  Renee asked if he watched any Commission meetings but said no. 
---Scott Dall stated that he is new to town but he has always been involved with contributing to the town or city. He was an accountant for 30 years, an office manager and is now in IT. He said they need to be proactive and get ahead of problems. He is on the sewer system and has watched a couple of Commission meetings. 
---Eli Torres noted that he has worked as a manager at Home Depot and is now certified in HVAC. He is a people person and believes in working together to help people out. He is a Sewer customer and would like to help the Commission.  
---Tom Indge stated that he worked in Law Enforcement and 11 years ago bought in to a franchise of Junk King. He    
has sponsored local sports teams and Boys &amp; Girls club.  He wants to help where help is needed in the Community.
    Caesar noted there are 2 vacancies that expire in 2025 and 1 in 2026 but Tom Alonzo said that all 3 applicants appointed would need to be on the spring Town Election ballot for mixed terms – 2 for 3 year terms and 1 for 1 year term.  Caesar asked if all applicants would be willing to run for reelection and all 4 said yes. Tom Alonzo also noted that the mailing brought 4 applicants where social media wasn’t successful. Caesar read the list of committee vacancies. The Select Board thanked all the candidates and encouraged any person not selected to look at the other openings.
    Caesar asked the members of the Sewer Commission for their opinion. Mike Mackin and Brett Ramsden recommended Joe Hurley, Scott Dall and Eli Torres for the vacancies. 
Motion: Michael-Ray Jeffreys                                                                                              Second: Tom Alonzo 
To appoint Joseph Hurley, Scott Dall and Eli Torres to the Sewer Commission for a term to expire at the annual election of 2025. 
Discussion: Michael-Ray stated that he liked Tom Indge’s experience and encouraged him to reach out to other committees that have vacancies. Caesar added that he would be a great fit on any committee.                                                                            
The Vote was unanimous to appoint the 3 candidates. 
Carter (interim Town Manager) said he will reach out to Tom Indge about considering the opening on the Finance Committee. 
 
 
Respectively submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk










