===PAGE 1===
Minutes of  4/30/24  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  John Reynolds , Vice-Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Clerk- Mike Nault, Members: 
Dave MacDonald  and Mike Mackin , DPW Directo r-  Bill Bernard , Business  Manager- Paula 
Bertram, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Brett  opened the meeting at 7 :02 pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the
meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Mike M. reminded all that town meeting will be on 5/4 at 9am  and will be a
busy  one . He encouraged all to attend. Dave  also reiterated that this town meeting is  very 
important  for the future of Lunenburg .  Brett  stated that their  software billing issues are in 
deplorable situation. It is important for t he Select Board and Town Manager  to focus on this 
situation.   He added that this has been a p roblem for a long  time and could affect  the 
continuation of the Sewer Department  business if it gets worse. The Staff are totally 
overwhelmed. 
CURRENT BUSINESS -
Minutes  of 2/27/24 –
Motion: Dave M .                                                                                                                                 
Second: Mike M .
To accept the minutes of 2/27/24.                  Roll Call Vote: Dave-aye, Mike N.-aye, Mike M.-
aye and Brett-aye.
Minutes of 4/9/2 4 -
Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                  
Second: Mike N.
To accept the minutes of 4 /9 /24.        Roll Call Vote: Mike N.-aye, Mike M.-aye and Brett-aye.
Dave abstained. 
Engineering Services – Paula repor ted that they had asked W right P ierce  for a number of task 
orders , with the most critical one being a review of  electricity for pumps at Dana, Leominster 
Rd., and Mass 1 .  This was for preparing a su bmitt al of a grant  application . The  quote  for looking
at the efficiency of the pumps came in at $7 ,200 , which  Bill said was very h igh. Paula and Bill 
talked to Wade at CTE who said there could be savings with new pumps but he didn ’t know how
much.  She noted that they needed to see significant savings in order to get the grant. Paula 
sta ted they spend $25K/year for th ose  3 stations  and the d eadline for the grant is 5/10. She has 
p ut together figures and specs  but no one  is qualified to do the calculat ions . Dave  suggested 
talking to John DiNapoli and rely on the Green Communities Task Force.  Paula said she 
reached out to them and they suggested using Wright Pier ce.  Bill also talked to RISE  but has 
not heard back yet.  Paula will reach out to John at Unitil. Mike N.  stated that getting new  pumps
would be big  and suggested asking the pump supplier for data on efficiency.  (J ohn joined 
meeting and starting chairing .)   The Commission discussed and agreed to not spend the $7,200
and will apply for the grant if they can get the data in time. The y also agreed that the other  task 
quotes were high – especially for the manhole s .  Dave asked if Ch . 90 money could be used for  
sewer covers  and  Bill replied that if they are raising covers , they could use Ch. 90  money but 
they are doing more work than that . Paula screen-shared a spreadsheet for repairs on the 
ma n holes . The Commission discussed the list and agreed up to 21 manholes could be covered 
by Chapter 90 money. John stated concern that when they start work on the manholes, some 
may be in worse shape  and could end up costing more than $100K. The Commission discussed 
coming up with their own scope  or hav ing a  contractor inspect each one and give an estimate  for
repair s . Paula suggested  it would be 2 separate projects  – inspections and a bid to do the work , 
since it is over $ 50K. Paula asked if the company doing the inspections could bid on the work. 
===PAGE 2===
Bill replied that would be a question for the Inspector General ’s office  and will ask J ulie  (Asst. 
Town Manager). John said they will discuss this again at the next meeting.
Q4 Bill Insert  – Paula noted that they  talked about increasing the minimum charge  of $133  and 
the Commission agreed with the wording on the insert. Mike M. said  he  was pleased  to see the 
Ledger article . 
Draft Turnover Procedure – The  Commission discussed the new procedure. John said it 
seemed cumbersome to have staff go to Town Hall to bring checks every day  and h ope d it 
would  go to once per  week.
Waiver of Interest request  for 3 accounts- (car wash es  and office ) for total of $74.75.  Paula s aid
they did not receive  their bills  and there were others who called to say  they also did  n o t receive 
a bill. She noted that they ran  them through the post al  meter, prior to bringing them to the Post 
Office. It also appears that certain pockets of town did not receive their bills. Everyone was 
asked to pay the i nterest on past due amounts. The o wner of the 3 accounts was very upset and
refused to pay the interest. Since the amount was over $15, the y cannot waive the amount 
without a vote from the Commission. The Commission discussed the waiver request and Paula 
noted if they do it, it needs to be done for others. Bill noted it was not a Munis issue but a post 
office issue. Paula said  a  late bill was sent out instead of a demand. If demands had gone out, a 
$10 fee  would also have been added .  Moving forward, she w ill mail  the bills as a bulk mailing 
with the number of bills sent certified  by the Post Office . Dave  suggested asking the post office 
why they were late.
M: Mike N.                                                                                                                                         
Second: M ike M .
To take care of the customer at hand with the interest and any body  who has been current up 
to this last billing  that comes forward in the next 7 days  with interest, that they will take care 
of the  interest .
The Commission discussed the motion and Paula noted any charge over $15, the board will 
need to sign on it.
Paula added that she will be out for 2 weeks and will not be able to address this until she comes 
back. 
Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye , Mike N.-aye , B rett -aye , and J ohn-no . Dave  abstain ed .
Business Manager Report –
-- Sewer System Update – Paula reported that there was another major clog at Leominster Rd . 
John noted that this is the 22 nd  clog since September.
-- Budget Status – Paula sta ted that receipts are down . She had planned on sending out bills 
tomorrow but will have to wait until  she is back. 
-- Town Meeting Articles – Paula said she will not be able to attend so s omeone will need to be 
present to read the articles.  Heather asked for 3 slides  on the budget  and Paula  sent out the 
draft presentation. The  OBEP transfer will be in the consent calendar  but the budget will be 
done  separate . Paula screen-shared the budget slides  with a p icture of a  pump clogged by 
disposables . 
-- Grant  funding  – already discussed
-- Demands and Q4 billing  – Paula noted that demands are still not working  on Munis and based 
on the earlier vote, she will not know who has not received their bill. She will hold off on Q4 
billing until she comes back , but she is concerned that it will push out their  revenue s . They need 
to give 30 days for payment and  that w ill be right at the end of the fiscal year.
-- Munis Issues – John stated that they cannot appreciate the day in, day out problems of dealing 
with Munis  issues  and it is o verwhelming.  Paula noted that John has requested a meeting with 
===PAGE 3===
the Select Board and the Enterprise  F und has lost money because of th e se billing issues. Mike 
M.  asked  how it was  adopted  and Paula replied they  had Munis , version 11 . An upgrade  was 
required and it has been a disaster ever  since. She was unable to send out demands in Q2 and 
Q3 – a loss of $8K.  Also there have been i ssues with pay stubs and tax bills  in Town Hall so it is 
not isolated to just the Sewer Department.
OLD BUSINESS  – The Reboot- Payment Agreement - John noted that t hey came in with $2K  
but that wa s it  and they are still way behind in their agreement. They will be o n the Select Board 
agenda on 5/21  and the Sel ect Board is looking to the Commission as to whether their liquor 
license should be renewed or not. Paula noted they ha ve  to pay in full by 5/28, but the Select 
Board hearing is 5/21. However, she will ask if they can move it to the 1 st  meeting in June . The 
Commission discussed the agreement and the license renewal. Paula noted there  are no 
penalties other than they had to pay by 5/28. The Commission agreed that if ReBoot does not 
pay in full, they recommend the Select Board  re voke their liquor license.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – The Commissioners wished Paula well with her surgery.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
May 4, 2024 @ 9am  – Town Meeting
May  1 4 , 202 4  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
May 28, 2024 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
June 11,  202 4  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting, Remote Participation
Motion:  Mike N.                                                                                                                                    
Second:  Mike M .
To adjourn  at 8:27 pm .                     Roll Call Vote: Mike M .-aye, Mike N.-aye, Brett-aye, Dave-
aye and John-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk