
Minutes of 8/21/24 Sewer Commission Special Meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- John Reynolds, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk- Mike Mackin, , DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Guest: Interim Town Manager- Carter Terenzini
John opened the meeting at 6:08 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance. 
CURRENT BUSINESS – Hiring of New Sewer Business Manager
    Carter stated that they are all disappointed to lose Paula- especially in a short time frame.  They advertised the position right away but did not get any applications, but they do have a candidate from another selection process that appears suitable.  Bill and Julie (Asst. Town Manager) interviewed that candidate and recommended her to Carter. Going forward, the Commission will be involved in the hiring process in some fashion. The good news is that the candidate may be able to start right away. Paula’s last day will be the 29th but she has agreed to come back to do training at $50/hour. 
    Carter noted that they offered the candidate the job conditioned on reference check, background check and ratification. If the board chooses not to go forward, they will keep advertising it. He discussed temporary stop gaps with Bill but this is the worst recruiting market. Also people are not staying at jobs for long periods of time. John added that he hopes the town is looking at how to maintain staff and it is unfortunate that the new person will come in at the same pay &amp; grade as Paula, who had the qualifications required of the job. Carter said that he knows it needs to be worked on and he will be sitting in on the exit interviews. 
    Mike asked Bill and Carter for their impressions from the interview with the candidate. Bill replied they had a set of questions which were the same used when interviewing Paula. The candidate was very poised and gave good answers. She demonstrated that she has good experience but does not know sewer or Munis. However, she has demonstrated that she can learn new processes, step in and do well. She does not have any municipal experience. Carter noted that there will be a probational period and will have a 1, 3 &amp; 5 month sit-downs.  He will also ask the Sewer Commission for their input. He will take action if it does not work out and he wants to fill the Assistant position too. Mike said they will give support to help the candidate to succeed. Carter added that Munis is tough but they will provide support to help them be successful. 
     John suggested Carter go ahead with his mailing to users to seek new commissioners. He will add it to the agenda for discussion at the next meeting. 
Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                 Second: Brett R.
To ratify the appointment of Lori Ann McCormick to the position of Sewer Manager. 
Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye and John- aye.
Carter encouraged Mike and Brett to stop by anytime. Brett thanked Carter and said he is glad to have him on board as Interim Town Manager. 

Motion: Mike M.                                                                                                                                Second: Brett R.
To adjourn at 6:40pm.                                                        Roll Call Vote: Mike M.-aye, Brett-aye and John- aye.

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk










