===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 11/25/25 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis, DPW Director- 
Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Guests: Daniel Sheehan (Haley Ward) 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
---Easement Request, 763 Mass. Ave. (Continued from 10/28/25)- represented by Daniel Sheehan (Haley Ward)–  
Brett reviewed the ground rules for the hearing and opened it at 6:04pm. Daniel summarized the project and noted 
the changes requested by the Commission. The property at 763 Mass. Ave. will be separated into 3 lots with a 
duplex on each lot, with the existing building retrofitted into a duplex. Daniel noted they shifted over the location of 
the stub by 6’ on the updated plan. Also the manhole behind one of the duplexes is now a drop manhole. The 
duplexes will have a total of 19 bedrooms and they calculated the total flow to be 2,090 gal/day, which the existing 6” 
pipe can handle. If there is an issue with the integrity of the existing pipe, they will replace it. Scott and Arthur noted 
they had not provided the cost figures for adding sewer to Chestnut Street for tie-ins vs making 3 connections to 
Mass. Ave. The only update Haley Ward provided was related to relocating the stub on the plan.  Bill asked Daniel if 
he received the Commission’s list of questions and Daniel replied he did but was not aware they asked for pricing.  
He stated that going up Chestnut Street would be significantly more expensive -especially if there is ledge-- than 
hooking up to the stub. The property owner would rather get the DOT permits from the State to connect each lot to 
Mass. Ave. Scott noted that 2 lots are on Chestnut Street and it would have to be a real financial hardship for the 
Commission to grant an easement waiver.  He added that they would be missing their biggest opportunity to add 
sewer to Chestnut St. Brett summarized that either they connect through the existing stub or force them to go 3 times 
to Mass Ave. Arthur questioned whether it is better for the town to have properties with easements or without 
easements. The Commission discussed the easement request and the benefits of adding sewer to Chestnut Street 
but agreed they cannot force them to extend the sewer. Brett asked for a vote.  
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                    Second: Scott D. 
To vote on the waiver request for an easement at 763 Mass. Ave.   
Roll Call Vote: Dan-nay, Arthur-nay, Scott-nay and Brett-nay.   
The motion did not carry and the hearing was closed at 6:32 pm. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 10/28/25 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                    Second: Scott D. 
To accept the minutes of 10/28/25.                         Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
      i. ADU amendment – Bill summarized that Town Counsel reviewed the admendment, the Commission agreed 
with the wording and they are ready to vote. Arthur asked to clarify the connection charge was a one-time fee and 
Dan inquired if an ADU could have 2 bedrooms.  The answer to both questions was yes.  
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                   Second: Dan P.  
To accept the Sewer Connection Charge Policy for ADUs.  
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, and Brett-aye.   
     ii. Manhole Repair IFB – Bill reported that the frames they received were the wrong size and they reordered new 
ones but they are not in yet . The roads cannot be opened up after 11/15 and the contract was over on 10/31.  They 
are granting the company an extension to June 30, 2026.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
---Future Agenda Items- Bill noted they will need to go to Town Meeting to change the waiver language in the by-
law.  Dan suggested discussing and making a change in their by-law or regulations to state that a property needs to 
connect to sewer on the street of their address. Brett will add it to the next agenda and Bill said they will need to 
discuss it with Town Counsel. Bill will also ask Town Counsel when the new ADU policy will be in effect. The 
Manhole Repair will be added to spring agendas. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Scott noted that other towns have had increases in their sewer and water rates. He asked if 
they will be looking at increases and Andrew replied they will need to look at raising the rates as an agenda item.   
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
December 9, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Hybrid Meeting  
January 13, 2026  @ 7pm – Regular Hybrid Meeting 
January 27, 2026  @ 6pm – Zoom Meeting 
February 10, 2026 @ 7pm – Regular Hybrid Meeting 
 
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                                Second: Arthur K. 
To adjourn at 6:48 pm.                                            Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye and Brett-aye.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 