===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  8/12/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member : Arthur 
Katis , DPW Directo r-  Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager - Andrew Valliere,
Absent:  Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Brett  opened the meeting at 7 :00  pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMEN T & ANNOUNCEMENTS  – Ed McSweeney introdu ced himself and stated 
that he  was interested  in the discussion on extensions.  He owns land in town that he would like 
to develop for  4  single family homes  and ha s perc ’d the land. He would like to see if they could 
connect to town sewer  but would need to be allowed to do easements across the lots. The 4 
homes would be entered through a common driveway.  If they do septics for each, it would be 
hard to do future upgrades to the septics without tearing everything up. Ed noted the town allows
common driveways as long as all requirements are met. He referred to a development in 
Ashburnham where they brought in a line from the main road and had a dded a  25 ’ service 
easement for each property  to connect to sewer.  They will use   F .R.  Maho ny  to d esign the plan 
and service the E-1 pumps. Ed is just looking for information at present but would like to present 
a plan to the Commission. Brett stated that the Commission allows easements on a case -by-
case basis and suggested Ed put together a package to present at a meeting. Ed noted the 
property is on Sunny Hill Road  and the common driveway would go down to a flat area. He will 
come back with a presentation. 
CURRENT BUSINESS –
---Minutes from 7/29/25 Meeting  –
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                       
Second: Scott D.
To accept the minutes of 7/29/25.                     Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye 
and Brett-aye.
---  Sewer Business Manager / DPW Director  Updates –
     i. Quarter 1 FY26 Billing  – Andrew reported that the billing went out 7/28 and took 6 days to 
com plete, w hich included 3 days for Munis to  straighten out the printing issue  after the upgrade . 
The demand notices  will go out in about 30 day s and he then will be able to give the 
Commission a n  update on the delinquency rate.
Motion: Scott D.                                                                            
Second: Dan P.
To accept the Q1FY26 billing notice of Commitment  for $315,274.90.
Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye and Brett-aye.
   ii. ADUs  – Bill noted he and Andrew will be meeting with the Town Att orney  on 8/21 to discuss 
ADUs.  Dan Proctor is planning on attending  and would like to ask for clarification on the wording
for conn ecting the unit. Scott stated that they had talked about charging a flat fee and whether 
the line would go straight to the street or to the  main house.
  iii. Touch a Truck  – Bill reported they are asking for donations of school supplies  for the 
schools to give out to those in need. The event is August 22 nd  at 12 :30  to 2: 3 0pm. Andrew will 
have some information to give out on sewer  and a flyer on what not to put into the sewer . Scott 
offered to bring a cotton candy machine .
  iv. Easements and Extensions-  Bill noted there have been others who are interested in 
easements  and added that Mr. McSweeney wanted to put the easement  for the 4 new houses in
the back, run parallel to Sunny Hill and connect to West  Street through one of neighbors 
properties. The Commissioners discussed the possible future i mpacts  with easements  going 
===PAGE 2===
through other properties. Bill pointed out Section 10 of Waivers  lists  3 criteria, which the 
Commissioners should be ready to discuss . Brett rei terated that they will go on a case-by-case 
basis  for each situation.
   v. Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported the contractor has completed most of work on the inside 
of the manholes . T hey are hiring a sub- contractor to replace the framing covers but that work 
has not been scheduled yet. After that is done, they will do the inside of those manholes , which 
will complete the project. 
--- Future Agenda Items-  Update on meeting with Town Attorney, Touch A Truck update, 
Manhole IF B update, and extension requests.   Bill no ted that if they receive a  formal request for 
an  extension , it has to be a public hear ing ,  needs to be posted  for 5 days  and  advertis ed  in the 
newspaper. 
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Scott suggested if anyone wanted to donate school supplies but was 
unable to attend the Touch A Truck event, they could drop their donation at the DPW during 
business hours .
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
August 26 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
September 9 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
September 30 , 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
October 14 , 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                                 
Second:  Dan P.
To adjourn  at 7:55 pm.                                         Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye , Dan-aye, Scott-
aye, and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk