
Minutes of 02/11/25 Sewer Commission meeting– Hybrid Meeting at DPW
Attendees:, Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk- Scott Dall, Member: Joe Hurley, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Chair- Mike Mackin and Eli Torres 
Brett opened the meeting at 7:03pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT &amp; ANNOUNCEMENTS – none
CURRENT BUSINESS - 
---Absent Members – Bill stated that Eli told him that he could not attend meetings and that he would submit a letter of resignation but he has not done that yet.  Brett asked Bill to contact him again about the letter. 
---FY24 Annual Report - The Commissioners said they had read the report and had no changes. Bill and Andrew will update the figures for FY24 before submitting the report to the Town Manager’s office. Joe asked about the increases from Fitchburg and Leominster. 
Motion: Joe H.                                                                                                                                   Second: Scott D.
To accept the FY24 Annual Report pending updates to the figures in the report.
Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett-aye.

DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates–
      i. 2nd and 3rd Quarterly Billing and Demands – Andrew reported that he was able to print and send out the 3rd Quarterly Billing. There were some errors where Munis doubled figures, but he was able to correct them. He sent out 911 bills with 11 that had errors which users called about and he double checked the bills. He added that if any user thinks their bill is incorrect, they can contact him at the office. Andrew noted that Munis has not fixed the issue with the Demands and he is not able to get help fixing it. He has tried numerous things but cannot get them to print. Bill added that the consultant will be coming in next week and hopefully he will be able to help Andrew with this problem. 
      ii. Assistant to the Business Manager Position- Bill reported that they interviewed one person who has a lot of municipal experience. They also have another interview on 2/12. HR will be checking references for the candidates.
     iii. Manhole Repair IFB – Bill stated that this will be a springtime job and will be setting up a meeting with the contractor. 
     iv. General Items- Bill noted that they set up contingencies and reviews as part of Andrew’s employment with his first review in January. He is doing well and is not intimidated by Munis. Andrew replied that Munis is a challenge but he will keep trying to get things done and he is grateful for Bill’s help. Brett thanked Andrew for his effort.
---Future Agenda Items- update on billing, Assistant Business Manager, and manhole repairs. Bill added that come Spring when they can open up the roads (after April 15th), there will be many applications for sewer hookups.

PUBLIC COMMENT – Brett stated the Commissioners extend their best to Mike Mackin to get well soon. He also hopes that they will be able to get a new candidate for the Board and thanked everyone for coming to the meeting. 

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
February 25, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
March 11, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
March 25, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
April 8, 2025     @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting

Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                   Second: Joe H.
To adjourn at 7:29 pm.                                                                 Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-aye and Brett-aye

Respectfully submitted,
Jane L. Ranley, Minutes Clerk




























