
Minutes of 8/26/25 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Arthur Katis
Brett opened the meeting at 6:04 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS – Brett thanked those that attended the meeting with Town Counsel. 
CURRENT BUSINESS – 
---Minutes of 8/12/25
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                Second: Dan P.
To accept the minutes of 8/12/25.                                           Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett- aye.

---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates–
     i. Town Counsel meeting and ADUs- Bill reported he, Andrew and Dan met with Town Counsel, who gave them a high level review of the ADU law.  It is silent on utilities and he recommended the Commission come up with a new regulation as to how to handle them-especially regarding fees. Bill noted that the Commission can add a Regulation but a By-Law would require a Town Meeting vote. Dan added that an ADU is up to 900 sq ft., on a pre-existing lot and cannot be sub-divided. It can be rented to anyone and zoning is not an issue. Town Counsel stated that if the Sewer Commission desired, they could vote to not allow ADUs. The Commission can also detail how the connection is made. Scott asked if they discussed using direct tie-ins in case the unit is sold later and Bill replied Counsel said the parcel cannot be subdivided.  Scott questioned what would happen if a unit is later made into a condo and sold. Bill noted what Scott is suggesting would require a change in the state law.  The Commission discussed ideas for the regulations and fees. Brett questioned if it would be possible for someone with a septic to add a sewer line for the ADU and Bill said it is a possibility if they are in the Sewer Service Area but not connected. The Commission discussed  connection scenarios, Board of Health requirements and adding a water meter to an ADU. Bill noted they cannot require an additional water meter but if the ADU is a rental, they may want the additional meter. Andrew will reach out to Leominster and Fitchburg about their regulations. Dan suggested each come up with some ideas to give to Andrew for discussion. Bill noted an easement requires a waiver and they discussed the language with Town Counsel. An applicant has to meet all 3 criteria before they can grant a waiver. Bill stated the first criteria would be some kind of emergency such as a backup or to correct a mistake made in a previous connection. The other two criteria are: Is it in the best interest of town and Is there a hardship?
    ii. Touch-A-Truck- Bill gave a huge thank you to Scott for providing the cotton-candy machine which was had 10 deep lines all day. It was a big turnout and PAC has posted a video. Bill added that school supply donations filled up the whole backseat of the police truck. Brett thanked all involved, especially the DPW, Fire Department, Police and Scott Dall.  Bill also gave a big shout out to Dave McDonald, a former Commissioner, for suggesting the idea and getting the event all pulled together.  
   iv. Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported the manhole framing gates have been ordered but are on backorder and not due in until October. 
   v. 17 Rennie Street adjustment- Andrew stated they found out that 17 Rennie St.’s water meter was assigned to  10 Rennie and vice versa, which meant #17 was overcharged $79 on her bill. In order to do a credit, the Commission would need to vote to allow it.
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                Second: Dan P.
To vote in the refund request for the incorrect billing at 17 Rennie Street. 
Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett- aye.

ADUs- Scott asked what the procedure would be for regulation changes. Bil replied the Commission would put together the regulation and send it to Town Counsel for review. Then they would need to advertise and hold a public hearing, followed by a vote by the Commission. Commissioners will send any ideas to Andrew.
---Future Agenda Items- ADUs, Manhole Repair IFB

PUBLIC COMMENT – Scott thanked Bill for including him in the Touch-A-Truck event and added it was great to see the smiles on the kids. Brett thanked Scott for sharing the cotton candy and said it was a great event for the Community. 

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
September 9, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
September 30, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
October 14, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
October 28, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting

Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dan P.
To adjourn at 6:47pm.                                                               Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Dan-aye, and Brett-aye.

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk


























