===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  6/10/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via DPW Office and (Zoom)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member s : Joe 
Hurley  and Arthur Katis , Sewer Business Manager: Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane 
Ranley
Absent : DPW Director- Bill Bernard
Brett  opened the meeting at 7 :00 p m.  and did a roll  call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT  & ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS –
---Minutes of 5/13 /25 and 5/27 /25.
    Motion:  Scott D., Second: Joe H.
    To  approve the minutes of 5/13/25 and 5/27/25. 
    Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye. (Arthur and Dan abstained)
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
i. Dana Street Repairs  – Andrew reported that P ride is starting to stage equipment and will
be on the site  soon . Dan noted there were 2 workers there today.
ii. Manhole Repair IFB  – Andrew stated the contractor sent Bill the materials for submittals 
and they are in the process of reviewing them. They will have an update for the next 
meeting. 
iii. Quarterly Demands  – Andrew reported he is waiting until due date (the 17 th ) for the 
supplemental billing and then he can start running the  demands . He added that with the 
Munis update, it looks like they will be able to print the demands on the proper bill setup. 
iv. Wright-Pierce ND PES Permit-  Andrew noted they  approved the scope of work and will 
be in touch for  the  proposal for next year ’s  requirements  for 2026 . The Commissioners 
reviewed the contract  and Brett read aloud the components of the contract , which total  
$83, 800 . He noted that W right -P ierce has been their engineering contractor for many 
projects.  Scott asked what is involved with  the mapping and Andrew replied it  is to 
assure it is accurate.  Dan inquired how many  residents are  on the line but not connected .
Andrew replied he would find out. Brett asked if there have been any new inquiries  to join
the system and Andrew said there have been a few calls  from residents regarding the 
cost to hook up.  Dan noted he had talked to Bill a bout whether there would be additional
fees for adding an ADU ( A uxiliary  Dwelling Unit ).  Scott stated they had discussed the 20
year old  plan for sewer and questioned if they are supposed  to protect or expand the 
sewer.  They do not want to overwhelm the system. The Commission discussed permit 
fees and  who would make those decisions , especially considering the impact from the 
MBT A  Communities requirements . Brett suggested discuss ing this  in future meetings. 
Andrew read from the 2023 Regulations that the minimum charge for hooking up is 
$2250, plus an additional $550  for each bedroom in excess of  3. J oe suggested looking 
at what other towns charge and Brett stated he would need  to talk to Bill.  They will add 
this discussion to the agenda.
---Joe said he can attend only 1 more meeting  before moving and Commissioners will ask 
around for a new candidate.
- - - New Assistant to the Business Manager – Andrew reported that she is doing good  and there is 
a lot for her to learn. 
--- Future Agenda Items-  Minutes, Dana  St. work , Manhole Repair, Quarterly Demands, and 
discussion  on ADU hookups and fees. 
===PAGE 2===
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Brett thanked new members for attending and thanked Joe for staying on
until he moves. 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
June 24 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
July 8 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  at DPW
July 29 , @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
August 12 , 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  at DPW
Motion:  Joe H.                                                                                                                                   
Second:  Scott D.
To adjourn  at 7 :33 pm                             Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye , Joe-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-
aye and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk