===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  7/29/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, , DPW Directo r-  
Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager: Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent:  Member: Arthur Katis
Brett  opened the meeting at 6 :03 pm.  and did a roll  call of attendees. The Commission began the
meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMEN T & ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
---Minutes from 7/8/25-  Brett noted that he had a correction  of the word “effort ” but should be 
“effect ”. Jane will make the correction. 
  Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                               
Second: Dan P.
  To accept  the minutes from  7/8/25, with correction as noted.
  Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Dan-aye  and Brett-aye .
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
     i. Dana Street Repairs-  Bill reported the se repairs have been  complete d .  The Contractor 
told Bill that the heads of the bolts holding one of the couplings together were almost rusted out 
and it was good the repair was done now. Andrew noted the repair was done with FY25 money 
before the end of the fiscal year. Bill added t hey needed the dual-bypass and everything  worked 
out fine. Dan asked how old the system was  and Bill said 20 , with a design l ife of  25 years. He 
believes t he d ual b y-pass  will stay in place but  will check.  Scott asked if the bolts can be 
inspected  easily each year and Bill replied they are visible when the hatch is opened . They can 
check when they do the draw  down  and clean the pits  each year.
    ii. Manhole Repair IFB - Bill stated that  I n situform came in for just under 2 weeks and fixed all 
the manholes  that d id not  require the frame and cover replaced.  A sub- contractor  will be coming
in to do the frames and covers  in a couple of weeks.  After that, they will do the repairs on the 
inside of those manholes.  Bill added they did not see anything unusual – just normal looking 
stuff. Brett asked about grading a round the  manholes and Bill replied they should be to grade to 
prevent damage by cars.  T hey will also patch holes and put a sealer around , especially up at the
top (the chimney). It is pre-cast concrete and bricks to get the grade , with  s ealing t o keep water 
out. They will also  seal around the pipes  and hopefully these repairs  wi ll lessen  the I/I. They 
targeted the worst  of the worst based on prior inspections  from the past 4-5 years.
   iii. End of Year FY25 Adjustment- Andrew noted  he  got all the signatures now  and all is  goo d .
    iv. ADUs  – Dan suggested having a Flat R ate  of $500 or $1,000 to cover inspections to check 
for leaks  from the ADU to the existing house .  Another option is to charge for adding bedrooms 
to an existing house  which is what L eominster is doing , with a fee of $220/bedroom.  Dan added 
that they may need to  base  fees on whether it is just a bedroom or an ADU.  B rett agreed with a 
flat rate , but they  should add  more  if a unit has to  go direct ly  to the street , which would require  
further discussion before approval .  Andrew noted he and Bill  will be  meeting with Town Counsel
on August 21 st  @ 10am at the Library . One or two Commissioners can also attend.
     v. Easements/Possible new connections – Bill stated a  couple of contractors came in asking
about easements  and  routing the sewer through another property. One contractor was talking 
about splitting a lot  and connecting the 2 houses to a manhole  which would then connect to the 
lateral. The Commission needs to allow easements  but contract ors  will be required to provide a 
plan and come before the Commission  to plead their case . Dan stated he was contracted to do 
that sewer connection  on Mass Ave , noting the property ha s  been divided and the homeowner ’s 
stub is now on the other property. If this comes before the Commission for a vote, he will recuse 
===PAGE 2===
himself. He added there is a similar issue on the corner of Leominster Road and Whiting Street . 
They also want to sub divide the lot  and would need to do a manhole  at the edge of the property 
to avoid an  easement . Bill noted there have been other contractors coming in with similar 
situations.  Brett stated that was  why they changed  the easement policy  and the Commission 
will go forward on a case by case  basis.
    vi. NPDES Permit –  Bill sent the Commissioners a copy of the D EP letter listing their 
requirements  for submittals . He was able to submit some  items  but there is a lot more required 
so they t urned to Wright Pierce for  help  since they know the system  and the DEP. Bill noted they
are e xpensive  but they will do a good job. Brett added  they have lots of paperwork showing they 
have been addressing I/I.  Scott q uestioned the  biggest line item  of mapping  and if it is a 
recurring cost  every year . Bill replied that  the DEP  want s  a n  updated map every year  and since 
it was last updated, there have been a lot of extensions which will require a lot of effort to do the 
update. Scott asked if it would be a sizeable charge every year and Bill replied  it should be less 
next year  since it only entail s  adding any new e xtensions . Andrew added it is figured on billing 
hours , according to the volume o f work  required .  Brett questioned the dates  noted on the list  
and B ill replied he had submitted the map from 2016  but they want ed  an updated map. He  noted
Wright Pierce ’s  proposal is to take care of all these questions  with the initial  d eadline at the end 
of this year. There is  a lso a yearly requirement due  starting March 2026  and t hese submittals 
are all new requirements for the NPDES  permit.
--- Future Agenda Items-  Manhole IFB, Billing  for Q1, ADU discussion , meeting with T own 
C ounsel , Easements, NPDES  permit.
---Old Business – Bill got a request for a connection  outside of the Sewer Service Area  which 
would require a Town Meeting  vote . Dan asked who would make the presentation for the 
request at Town Meeting and Bill replied  it should be the proponent. They should also come 
before the Commission first before going to Town Meeting. Brett added it would also go before 
other boards , such as Planning Board.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
August 12, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  @ DPW
August 26 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
September 9 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  @ DPW
September 30, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                                   
Second:  Dan P.
To adjourn  at 6:47pm.                                                              Roll Call Vote:  Scott-aye, Dan-
aye , and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk