===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 10/28/25 Sewer Commission meeting– Hybrid Meeting (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis, DPW Director- 
Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Guests: Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) and Steve Ballard (Haley Ward)  
Brett opened the meeting at 6:08 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS – Chair Brett read the ground rules for conducting the public hearings. 
 --- Easement Request, FWP Realty Partners for 763 Mass. Ave., represented by Steve Ballard (Haley Ward). 
(This hearing was continued from 10/14/25 and opened at 6:13pm.) Steve noted this project is at the old funeral 
home and is similar to 792 Mass. Ave. previously reviewed by the Commission. They are proposing to have 3 lots 
connecting into 1 manhole, flowing to sewer on Mass. Ave. This would avoid shutting down Mass. Ave. 3 times, 
which would also involve crossing under the existing water main. It would be better to do this just once--not 3 times. 
The easement would come from lot 3 across to lot 1 and to Mass. Ave. Steve clarified the lots and access points on 
the site plan, noting that all driveways will access from Chestnut St.  They will take part of the existing building out to 
create a duplex. Scott questioned if the lots could be hooked up to sewer on Chestnut Street.  The existing house 
was on septic and not connected to sewer. Steve clarified there will be 3 new manholes. Bill pointed out that there is 
no sewer on Chestnut Street but it is in the Sewer Service Area.  The Commission discussed whether they should 
entertain running an extension up Chestnut. Dan stated that their Bylaw requires they go halfway through the furthest 
lot and someone else could take it from there. Scott suggested possibly petitioning everyone on the street. Dan noted 
that there should be a sewer stub for the funeral home. He asked Steve to verify where the stub is located and if the 
6” stub be big enough or do they need an 8”.  Steve stated there will be 6 units but he did know how many bedrooms.  
Dan added that the plan should show where they will connect and note if it will be an 8” rather than 6”. Bill pointed out 
how an extension could go up Chestnut Street and the Commission discussed this idea, along with other proposed 
building in the area that may be interested in connecting. Brett suggested continuing the hearing until they get the 
location of the stub, what the size pipe will be and Scott asked for the number of bedrooms. Dan added that he did 
not love easements going across multiple properties that have addresses on Chestnut Street. Steve noted that Lot 3 
does not have any frontage on Chestnut St. Arthur suggested in the interest of the town, getting a consensus from 
residents on Chestnut about adding sewer. Dan noted that some people on Chestnut Street would need to pump with 
an E1 pressure line. Brett questioned if they would then need a pump station. The Commission discussed how to 
proceed, what further information they need and looking at extending on Chestnut Street. Steve said their client 
would want to do 3 tie-ins on Mass. Ave. rather than going up the street. Bill added that they cannot deny him access 
to Mass Ave. Dan noted that when they pull the building permit, the address is updated. Bill clarified that this hearing 
was for a waiver to grant an easement to tie into one and this is what they need to vote on. Steve stated they can 
continue it in order to come back with answers on the stub and show it on the plan. Scott asked to compare the costs 
for tying in on Mass. Ave. vs a spur on Chestnut St. Dan noted the hill is all ledge.   
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                    Second: Scott D. 
To have Haley Ward get additional information for the next meeting so they can discuss it.  
Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                    Second: Dan P. 
To extend their permitting to the next meeting.   Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye, and Brett-aye. 
The Commission will meet next on November 25th in person. 
Easement Request -  Waiver 830/832 Mass Ave. represented by Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) – Brett opened the 
hearing at 7:32 pm. Ryan stated they are seeking a waiver to allow a sewer connection through an easement which 
he indicated on the site plan. He added that 830 Mass. Ave. was subdivided a couple years ago into 2 lots with # 832 
as the back lot.  It was discovered that the sewer stub for # 830 is now on the # 832 lot. Instead of making curb cuts 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
to connect # 830 to Mass. Ave., they are proposing to add a manhole within the easement to tie into the existing stub. 
They would also add a stub for any future connection to the # 832 property. Utilizing the existing stub, all the work 
would be done on the back side of the sidewalk, about 13’ after the manhole. It would be a gravity run to the 2nd 
manhole. The Commission reviewed the lots and site plan. Ryan stated they meet the 3 requirements for a waiver. 
The house has a 60 year old septic system in the back. When the ANR was done in 2022, the previous owner was 
required to hook up to sewer but did not. The current owners want to sell and the easement would be a less intrusive 
way to connect. This meets the emergency criteria. Ryan clarified that the easement is on # 832 to benefit # 830. 
Both properties are in the SSA and they are trying to consolidate services. If the waiver is not granted, they would 
have to cut into Mass Ave with DOT permit, which is holding up the sale of # 830. The Commission discussed and 
voted. 
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                              Second: Arthur K.  
To accept the waiver request for an easement at 830/832 Mass. Ave. 
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-aye and Brett-aye. (Dan recused himself from the hearing and voting. ) 
Brett closed the hearing at 7:41pm.  
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 10/14/25 
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                              Second: Arthur K.  
To approve the minutes of 10/14/25.                    Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
    i. Town Counsel on ADU Bylaw-  Andrew, Scott, Brett and Bill met with Town Counsel regarding the waiver 
language and ADU bylaw. The biggest discussion was on the waiver language and the emergency wording will 
change to unusual and extraordinary circumstances. Bill noted the Commission can vote to change the regulation 
wording but in order to make that change in the By-law, it would need to be brought to Town Meeting in May. The 
Commission discussed the wording. Bill read the verbiage on waivers, which noted that if the Commission grants a 
waiver it would not set a precedent for another waiver. Bill suggested putting the wording vote on the next agenda. 
  ii. Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported that the frames came in, but when they opened the first manhole, they 
realized the frames were too small, so the project is on delay again.  
---Future Agenda Items- Continuance of 763 Mass. Ave. hearing, waiver wording 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – none 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
November 25, 2025 @ 6pm – Hybrid Meeting, in person meeting 
December 9, 2025 @ 7pm – Hybrid Meeting, in person meeting 
January 13, 2026 @ 7pm – Hybrid Meeting, in person meeting 
 
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                                  Second: Scott D. 
To adjourn at 7:50 pm.                                           Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye, and Brett-aye. 
  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 