
Minutes of 10/14/25 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: Arthur Katis
Guests: Ryan Proctor (Dillis &amp; Roy) and Daniel Sheehan (Haley Ward)
Brett opened the meeting at 7:08pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.

PUBLIC HEARINGS – Chair, Brett Ramsden, covered the ground rules for the public hearings and comments. 
   a. Easement Request for 830/832 Mass. Ave.- Brett opened the hearing at 7:13pm. and Dan Proctor stated he needed to recuse himself from the hearing and voting. This left the Commission without a quorum so the hearing could not proceed. The Commission agreed to table the hearing until later in the meeting in case Arthur was able to attend.

CURRENT BUSINESS – 
---Minutes of 9/30/25-
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                               Second: Dan P.
To approve the minutes of 9/30/25.                                        Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye.

---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates–
     i. ADUs- Bill summarized that the Commissioners agreed to send the ADU regulation draft to Town Counsel for review. Bill, Andrew, Scott and Brett will meet with Town Counsel on 10/23 to discuss the draft.  
    ii. Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported the frames and covers for the manholes had arrived and the repair of the 26 manholes will tentatively start on Friday, October 17th.  He added that the device they bought to measure I/I was not able to get a signal so it could send data on the flow level. They would like to try it again in the Whalom area near John Street. Bill clarified it is a flow tilt meter which was designed for monitoring online if the flow is high or low but it did not work. Dan asked if any of the 26 manholes are on state roads and Bill replied none are, so they did not have to go for a state permit.  Tango Construction was hired as the subcontractor to do the framing and Insituform will come back to do the inside of the manholes. Bill noted that a lot of the manhole problems occur where they have the adjustment at the top and sometimes with the pipe coming in and out. Dan questioned why they keep using bricks to extend the manholes since the bricks wear out. The Commission discussed some new products that could prolong the life of the concrete inside the manholes and issues with the bricks. Bill noted Insituform will seal the manholes also.
--Future Agenda Items- Bill stated that the budget is looking a little tight and suggested they may want to add to their Capital Line at the Fall town meeting, noting the Wright Pierce price of $83K for the mapping was not expected. However, they discovered the deadline for warrant articles was 10/2. Bill will talk to the Town Manager about it and the Commission will discuss it, as well as vote, at the 10/28 meeting.   

--The Commission discussed how to proceed with the first hearing and tabled it until after the second hearing. 

   b. Easement Request for 792 Mass. Ave.  – Brett opened the second hearing at 7:40pm. and introduced Daniel Sheehan from Haley Ward. Daniel noted the property was the old Stone Farm and they are proposing 3 duplexes on 3 individual lots. Everything will be tied into a combined system with 1 connection tab into Mass. Ave. Lot 3, closest to the funeral home, will be tied in with some pump chambers and forced system to 1 collection system.  763 Mass. Ave. – the old funeral home – will also be 3 duplexes tied into 1 collection system, with 1 tab into Mass. Ave. Daniel S. clarified that they will use the existing stub from the old Stone Farm, so there will not be any work on Mass. Ave. The Commission reviewed and discussed the plans supplied. There will be a driveway for each of the 3 lots. Bill noted the plan will require easements because they will be crossing lots with the sewer lines. Daniel S. stated the request meets the criteria of a preventative Emergency because the waiver would prevent shutting down Mass. Ave. 6 times in order to do the 6 connections. In addition, that section of Mass. Ave. is curved and could be hazardous while work is going on. He added that there would be a hardship if they had to install 6 tabs since the Mass DOT would require they do an overlay from frontage to frontage. Bill stated the configuration is fine with the easements for the 3 lots. Daniel S. noted the easement line would be 15-20 feet. Dan P. pointed out the stormwater basin on the plan and the sewer line is outside of the stormwater basin for maintenance such as jetting. The Commission discussed the waiver request and agreed the request met the criteria of emergency, hardships and in the best interest of the town. Daniel S. added they will need to upgrade from existing 6” stub to 8”. There were no public comments.  
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                    Second: Scott D.
To grant the waiver as requested by FWP Realty for 792 Mass. Ave.
Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye.
Daniel S. asked if the Commission wanted a presentation on 763 Mass. Ave. but Bill noted it was not on the agenda.                            
Brett closed the hearing for 792 Mass. Ave. at 7:59 pm. 

   a. Easement Request for 830/832 Mass. Ave. continued discussion- The Commission discussed how to proceed with the easement request and agreed to continue the discussion at the October 28 meeting as an in-person meeting. 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                    Second: Dan P.
To continue the 830/832 Mass. Ave. hearing to 10/28 at 6pm.  
Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye.

PUBLIC COMMENT – none

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 28, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, In-person DPW
November 25, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
December 9, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 

Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                    Second: Dan P.
To adjourn at 8:06pm.                                                                 Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Dan-aye, and Brett-aye.          

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk


























