
Minutes of 3/11/25 Sewer Commission meeting– Hybrid meeting at DPW
Attendees: Vice-Chair: Brett Ramsden, Clerk: Scott Dall, Member: Joe Hurley, Sewer Business Manager: Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk: Jane Ranley
Absent: Eli Torres, DPW Director- Bill Bernard
Brett opened the meeting at 7:05pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- Scott advised that they are actively looking for new members for the Commission. Those interested can contact the Sewer Commission or look for the volunteer form on the Town website.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - none

CURRENT BUSINESS - 
---Commission Vacancies- Scott attended the Town Caucus, was nominated and will be on the ballot for a 3-year term. There are still two 3-year term and one 2-year term open. Candidates can get on the ballot if they gather 50 signatures. Scott noted it was a good turnout and there are openings for other committees to include Sewer. Andrew explained that they can post the openings online as long as you are not representing yourself as a commissioner. The Commission discussed sending out another letter to solicit new commissioners. Scott suggested asking the Town Hall for a copy of the first letter, which only went to users on town sewer.  However, potential commissioners do not need to be on sewer. Andrew said they can figure out about doing another mailing and send it out. Scott suggested the new assistant could possibly help with that.  
---Zoom/remote Open Meeting Law Legislature- Andrew explained that this is set to expire at the end of March and the town is hoping it will get extended, as in the past.  If it does not get extended, their meetings will have to be in person for the Commissioners. The Commission discussed in person meetings and agreed that 7pm would work best. If a hybrid-Zoom option is not allowed, they would need to schedule meetings at the Town Hall. Andrew noted there is an option to have AI generate minutes, but they will continue to have Jane do the minutes.  
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates–
        i. Wright-Pierce NDPES requirements- Andrew reported they have been in touch with Wright Pierce on the requirements to go in effect next year and into 2028.  Wright Pierce was given the large scope of work and asked for a fee proposal. The estimate is $249,000 which will be spread over 4 years. The work will include adaptive measurement assessments, vulnerable critical assessments of the sewer system, information and maintenance schedule starting in 2028, and an adaptation plan progress report. Scott mentioned adding exercising the cutoffs on the pumps to the maintenance schedule in the next contract, as preventive maintenance. Brett said he could talk to Bill about this and will add it to the next agenda. 
       ii. Budget FY26- Andrew reported there were not many updates except they can use money from the Capital line item to pay for any Wright Pierce expenses that are not covered under Engineering.  Scott noted he watched Bill’s budget presentation, stating it was clear and concise. 
      iii. Assistant to the Business Manager Position- Andrew commented that Tiffaney will be ratified at tonight’s Select Board meeting and she will probably start on 3/17. 
      iv. Demands- Andrew reported he was able to do a mail merge and send the demands out, which gives him a platform for future demands. Scott commented that the Finance Committee was concerned about the 26% delinquency rate and noted that the Uni-Pay system only allows full balance payments. There are no options to pay a partial fee other than bringing a check to Town Hall.  Scott suggested looking at whether a partial payment option can be added to Uni-Pay. The Commissioners discussed partial/flexible payments, noting that something is better than nothing. Andrew suggested talking to Myleen (Town Collector).  Joe agreed it is a good idea, and they would take in more money. Andrew said he would look into options at Town Hall. Brett noted that is why it is good to have input from commissioners who are on the sewer line.
       v. Manhole Repair IFB – Andrew had no update since the frost is still in the ground. Scott pointed out that Bill said he would reach out to set up a schedule. 
---Future Agenda Items- NPDES requirements, Zoom/remote Open Meeting Legislature, and 3 open vacancies for Commissioners. The Commission discussed whether Eli had sent in his resignation and Joe added that he was sorry he will have to leave after the election. They noted they need to have some flexibility for Zoom participation to assure a quorum. They questioned the date for the town election and when new terms start. 

PUBLIC COMMENT – none

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
March 25, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
April 8, 2025     @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
April 29, 2025   @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
May 13, 2025    @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting

Motion: Scott D.	                                                                                                                                Second: Joe H.
To adjourn at 7:45 pm                                                                Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-aye and Brett-aye

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk


























