===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 8/25/26 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip 
Wilson, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, and Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere 
Absent: Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:06 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS – Bill reminded all that Friday (8/28) will be the Touch-A-Truck event, 
starting at 12:30 to 3 pm at the TC Passios building.  He encouraged everyone to bring their kids/grandchildren to 
see the trucks and have some fun. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 8/11/26 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                  Second: Chip W. 
To accept the minutes of 8/11/26.          Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Chip-aye, Dan-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
--- Sewer Business Manager/ DPW Director Updates– 
    --100 Laurel Lane- Bill reported the project is finished. They started digging at the manhole, finding the line for the 
house that is connected and then found the other 2 lines.  They were near the property line and dug in a couple of 
feet along the driveway to put the 2 connections in for 100 Laurel Lane. A day or two later, they put the stub for the 
property at 104 Laurel Lane.  The work was done by the DPW crew, along with help from William Proctor Masonry.  
Scott asked if the work came in well under the $20K budget and Andrew replied it was about $8,200 for labor and 
$2,000 for materials. The DPW worked for 3 days with 3 or 4 people. Bill noted the As-Built sketch was not accurate, 
and it showed the lateral going about 200’ onto the property, instead of the usual 1 foot lateral. They couldn’t find the 
end, but it was done better for the homeowner, who was happy with the work. 
    --CTE O&M Contract- Bill gave them an extension of time until November and it was due to be signed by today. 
CTE signed off on the extension, and it was just waiting for the Town Manager’s approval. This gives them time to 
advertise the contract and the request for bid will be sent out to all the contractors that can do this type of work. Bill 
added that most likely it will be CTE again and they have been a good partner for the town.  
    --Privilege Fees- Andrew reported that he and Bill had met with Town Counsel last week. Bill stated that Town 
Counsel recommended staying with charging ½ of the Betterment as a Privilege Fee, which is what they have been 
doing.  
    --786-796 Mass Ave Connection Fee- Andrew sent the Commissioners a spreadsheet with the figures. These are 
townhouses similar to 711 Mass Ave and they will be adding 2 more. The Connection Fee will be $50,462.96, based 
on the original betterment of around $11,000.  They had paid 2 betterments and now they will be charged 4 more 
betterments for the 6 units. Scott asked about how the units were tying in and Dan replied the unit on the left and the 
middle are going to be gravity. The unit on the right sits lower and will pump up into the same manhole. Andrew 
added the permit holder is aware of the charges and will be paying shortly.  
      Scott asked if they will still consider asking contractors to check for any leaks/issues in manholes they open and 
the other Commissioners agreed it would be a good idea.  
---Future Agenda Items- 67 Pratt Street Privilege Fee assessment, CTE O&M Contract 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Brett reminded all to attend the Touch-A-Truck event on Friday and Scott said he will be 
supplying cotton candy again. Arthur announced that he was offered more hours at work on Tuesday nights and will 
need to resign for now.  The Commissioners all thanked him for his time on the Commission and hope he can return 
in the future. Arthur said he enjoyed his time on the board and learned a lot about how things are run.  He added the 
town is lucky to have dedicated employees such as Bill and Andrew, as well as the expertise of the Commissioners.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
September 8, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
September 29, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
October 13, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
October 27, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
 
 
Motion:  Arthur K.                                                                                                                               Second: Scott D. 
To adjourn at 6:33 pm.                            Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye, Chip-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 