===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 8/11/26 Sewer Commission meeting– Regular Hybrid Meeting @ DPW 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip 
Wilson, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS – Chip Guercio, a resident of Shirley, MA, stated he owns property at 104 
Laurel Lane  that he purchased in 1989. They stay there usually from May to October and have an inground system 
that works fine. He is aware that his neighbor at 100 Laurel Lane has been before the Commission about connecting 
to sewer for an ADU and possibly his house. Chip G. stated that he has no plans to tie in now but wanted to know if 
the pipe would come down from the manhole in case they wanted to tie-in in the future. He also got quotes for a 
pressure system pump. Bill displayed the map for that area and pointed out where they will be installing 3 lines – 2 
lines for 100 Laurel Lane to connect the ADU and house and the third line will be a stub that can be connected to for 
104.  Bill noted that if he chooses to connect, he will have to go around the property at 100 Laurel Lane because the 
Commission does not allow easements. 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 7/28/26. 
Motion: Arthur K.                                                                                                                              Second: Chip W. 
To accept the minutes of 7/28/26.       Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye and Brett-Aye. 
 
--- Sewer Business Manager/ DPW Director Updates– 
     ---Quarter 1 FY27 Commitment- Andrew reported that billing for the 1st quarter was completed and totaled 
$339,779.55 with the new rate increase. The Commission accepted and signed the Commitment. 
Motion: Chip W.                                                                                                                              Second: Arthur K. 
To accept the Q1 FY27 Commitment of $339,779.55.        
Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye, Chip-aye, and Brett-Aye. 
     ---CTE O & M Contract- Bill reported that they are going to extend their contract to November, which gives them 
plenty of time to get the new contract in place. The new contract will be for 1 year, with the option to extend 2 more 
times and expires in November. It will go out as a Service Contract only but they are working on language to go to 
Town Meeting to make it Service and Construction Work.  Then it will have to go to the Massachusetts State 
Legislature for approval.  
     ---100 Laurel Lane – Bill stated that the DPW highway crew will do most of the work on this project such as the 
digging, backfilling and patching. Dan’s company will help with putting the pipes in and getting through the manhole. 
This combination will be a lot less cost and they are planning to start the work next week. Dig Safe and the Water 
Department have been notified and the pipe, along with the lateral kits have been ordered. Bill explained where the 2 
laterals for 100 Laurel will go and also the lateral location for 104 Laurel. Dan noted that the traffic will be able to go 
around the work, and Bill added any holes left will be filled.  
     ---Betterment vs Connection Fee- Andrew noted that 790 Mass Ave will have to pay an extra betterment. The 
property across the street at the old funeral home was divided into 3 properties and the 2 new properties will be 
charged betterments on top of the Connection Fees, for a total of almost $35K. Per the By-laws, if a property has 
paid their betterment but later divides the property, they will need to pay another betterment for the new property. 
Brett asked how much debt they were holding from the construction of the sewer system and Andrew replied about 
$1.9 million. The Commission discussed the cost of a betterment and a privilege fee. Bill stated that this topic was 
discussed with Town Counsel who said a privilege fee is half of a betterment. However, Dan read from the by-laws 
that they were equal. Andrew said he has a guideline in the system for the charges. Bill and Andrew will get 
clarification from Town Counsel. The Commission discussed how the sewer was done in phases and the cost varied 
for residents depending on how many homes connected in that phase. The Commission agreed to keep the subject 
on the future agenda. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
     ---Touch-a-Truck Event – will be on August 28th at the TC Passios building 12 – 2:30 pm. Bill showed the flyer 
that is being distributed and noted it will be on social media as well as The Lunenburg Ledger. Last year, they had 
about 300 kids attend and about 40-50 trucks present. Many are coming again and Dan will have his trucks there. 
Scott plans on bringing his cotton candy machine again as well as a pop-up cover.    
 
---Future Agenda Items- CTE O&M contract, Betterment vs Connection fee, 100 Laurel Lane 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Scott said he was very impressed on how quickly Bill, Dan and Andrew got the 100 Laurel 
Lane project going to get it completed.  He thanked whoever facilitated it.  
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
August 25, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
September 8, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting @ DPW 
September 29, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
October 13, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting @ DPW 
 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                               Second: Arthur K. 
To adjourn at 6:36 pm.                          Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, and Brett-aye.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 