===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 4/14/26  Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip 
Wilson, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:07 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 03/31/26 
Motion – Dan P.                                                                                                                              Second: Arthur K. 
To accept the minutes of 3/31/26.                          Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, Dan-aye and Brett-aye. 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
     -- Manhole Repair IFB – Bill reported Insituform sent a list of manholes they will be repairing and the list of work. 
He approved the list and added the manhole at 100 Laurel Lane. The contractor wanted to get going but the 
nighttime temperatures have been below freezing. Bill told them they could start this week but he has not heard back 
from them.  
     -- 100 Laurel Lane – Dan confirmed that he saw 3 pressure lines coming out. Bill noted they have been there a 
couple of times and had camered the 6” line coming out. The line goes out about 40’, teeing in at 88 and stops just 
short of property line. Bill said they have only seen 1 or 2 lines. Dan replied there are 3 but one he plugged. Bill went 
out with the As-built which shows the shut off right in front of the house at 100 Laurel Lane, 16.5’ from the telephone 
pole on the right side of the road. However, in the field, the telephone pole is on the left side of the road.  They dug 
about 16’ from the pole but did not find it, so they need to investigate more. The owner was there in the early 2000s 
when they brought sewer in but swears they did not bring any lines to his house. However, Bill has the As-built for 
100 and the As-built for 96 with 100 on it. Dan showed a picture of the 2 open lines and noted the 3rd  he plugged.  
The manhole is very shallow because they were running out of grade. (Scott joined the meeting.)  Bill added that the 
owner of 100 wants to convert the garage into an ADU. The house will have to be pressure lined but they want to go 
gravity feed out of the garage. They will need to go from the garage to the stub on their own, which is about 70’. Scott 
questioned why the ADU would not be connecting through the house but Bill replied no work has been done there 
yet. They will need to locate the end with a metal detector.  Chip asked if they put in an E1 system, can they  go from 
the garage to the E1 and Bill replied probably not since it is all ledge. They also do not want to put in 2 E1s. Dan 
noted the ledge broke up easily when he did a hook-up 2 houses down. Bill stated if the pressure line is not there, 
they will own him a stub.  
       -- 77 Electric Ave.- Bill reported another developer came in who wants to build houses on 14 acres which are 
not in the Sewer Service Area (SSA). He told the developer that he would need to go through Town Meeting first and 
he was shocked. Only the first 100’  is in the SSA but he doesn’t want to put the houses there. The Commission 
discussed the process for expansion. Bill noted that the developer was just inquiring right now. Dan added that piece 
of land may have been left out of the SSA by previous Commissions to prevent building a lot of houses on the large 
property. Arthur asked if they are more open to developments now and Dan replied if they can use these 
developments to help correct the I/I problem, he is for it. Bill stated the driving range developer has not returned.  
 
---Future Agenda Items- TM budget presentation  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – none 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
April 28, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
May 12, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
May 26, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
June 9, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
 
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                                   Second: Scott D. 
To adjourn at 6:32 pm.                           Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, Chip-aye, Dan-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 