===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 6/9/26 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip 
Wilson, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:03pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 5/26/26- 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                Second: Arthur K. 
To accept the minutes of the 5/26/26 meeting.     
Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
   --Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported the contractors came out this and last week.  They are just about done and the 
framing grates are all switched out. The inside lining work is almost finished, with 3 left to do. Bill added that these 
were the manholes identified in the contract, needing repairs.  They will need to do another study to see what to 
target next and put aside money for that. Bill saw one being worked on in which they mudded up the brick near the 
top and painted with an epoxy to keep water out. Some had a complete lining.  
   --100 Laurel Lane- Bill noted at the last meeting the home owner and contractor came up with a proposal of 
around $9,000. The Commissioners asked for some more bids. Dan went out and stuck a probe into where they 
thought the pressure line would be but there wasn’t anything there. Bill asked them for a sketch for the scope of work 
which they provided. However, it had the manhole on town property and the line was insulated. The homeowner 
asked the engineer to do the scope of work and the drawing had the manhole sticking out of the road by about 8”. He 
expected Bill to raise the road and Bill said no-way. He discussed it with Dan and they agreed to run 3 lines, 4 feet 
deep, to the property line and the home owner will need to connect from there. The Commission reviewed the 
location on a map and discussed the options. Bill said he will put it out for bids and will run it down the dirt without 
digging up the road. The Commission discussed the E1 system set-up and Dan noted they are designed to run 
independently. Bill added that the Commission specifies the E1 system and another type but those are hard to get. 
   --1790 Mass Ave Lot J Water Leak waiver – Andrew reported the owner had a high water bill and a sewer bill of 
about $4000.  It was discovered that she had geyser leaking under her trailer for 6 weeks in the winter, which she 
was not aware. The water did not enter the sewer system and the owner did not  use it. The leak has been fixed and 
Andrew suggested charging her the average of her last 4 bills, which is usually just the minimum. He clarified that her 
sewer bill was actually $6,260.  The Commissioners discussed and agreed to the waiver. 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                              Second: Arthur K. 
To accept the waiver for 1790 Mass Ave Lot J for $6,127.00. 
Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
   --990 Mass Ave Expansion of Use (Sewer Regulations) – Bill stated at the last meeting they approved the 
expansion of use for adding a bedroom and noted they paid the fee. The question was asked if there is a charge to 
go from a single family to a multi-family.  Bill and Andrew went through the regulations but only found something 
about if it was empty when it was bettered and then they added to it. He will need to run it by the Town Attorney first. 
Scott suggested looking at it because of the easing of building restrictions. Dan asked how much they charged for the 
3 duplexes at the Stone Farm package store that was torn down.  Commission discussed the Stone Farm duplexes 
and if extra betterments were charged. Scott also asked about fees for the duplexes on Electric Ave. Bill replied that 
he will talk to Town Counsel about fees. Scott inquired about the building at the old funeral home which would have 
been 4 new tie-ins and the Commission discussed.    
---Future Agenda Items- 100 Laurel Lane, fees for extra connections 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – none 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
June 30, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
July 14, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
July 28, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
August 11, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
 
 
 
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                           Second: Arthur K. 
To adjourn at 6:40 pm.                       Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 