===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 4/28/26 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip Wilson, Sewer Business 
Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Absent: Chair- Brett Ramsden and DPW Director- Bill Bernard 
 
Scott opened the meeting at 6:06 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS – none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 4/14/26 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                Second: Arthur K. 
To accept the minutes of 4/14/26.                         Roll Call Vote:  Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, Chip-aye and Scott-aye. 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
    --Manhole Repair IFB- Andrew reported that Insituform emailed that they are currently working on other jobs. He 
is hoping they can start later this week or next week. Andrew will keep everyone updated. 
    -- 5 Ramgren Road – Andrew stated this project went out to bid and they had several responses. Bob Proctor had 
the lowest bid of $4,800, with work starting next week if all goes well. They will be going from the manhole to the 
property line.  
    --Rate Increase presentation for Town Meeting-  Andrew screen-shared  Bill Bernard’s slide presentation for the 
Sewer Enterprise’s Article 19 at Town Meeting. He noted that Betterments are shrinking (income) and they will not be 
using Retained Earnings to balance the budget this year . The majority of income comes from User Charges and 
pointed out Leominster and Fitchburg rates are going up. This necessitates a User Rate Increase of 16% but only 5% 
increase on the minimum charge. Andrew noted the delinquency rate is under 20% currently. Dan asked about the I/I 
fees collected, and Andrew replied that they are very minimum on the SRF projects. Scott further asked if there will 
be any cuts with the overrides and Andrew said the Sewer is self-funded so it is not effected by the Town Budget.  
    --100 Laurel Lane – Andrew reported they have a tie-card for the property but they are still trying to find the sewer 
stub. They did a video inspection but it did not go anywhere. Dan noted it is a pressure line and they will try digging to 
find the shut-off.  Andrew added if they cannot find it, they will owe the homeowner a sewer stub.  
 
---Future Agenda Items- 100 Laurel Lane, Manhole Repair, Q4 Commitment, Town Meeting feedback and 
discussion.  
 
---Old Business – Scott asked Andrew if he had an update on the project at the old funeral home on Mass. Ave. and 
Andrew replied he has not seen any updated plans. He also has no update on the potential project at the Driving 
Range. Andrew reported that there is a buyer for 3 Rennie Street that wants to fix up the property and connect to 
sewer.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – none 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
May 12, 2026 @ 6 pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
May 26, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
June 9, 2026 @ 6 pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
June 30, 2026 @ 6 pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Motion: Arthur K.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dan P. 
To adjourn at 6:35pm.                                             Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Dan-aye, Chip-aye and Scott-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 