===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 7/14/26 Sewer Commission meeting– Regular (Hybrid) Meeting @ DPW Building 
Attendees: Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip Wilson, DPW Director- Bill 
Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere  
Absent: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Scott opened the meeting at 6:08pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 06/30/26 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                 Second: Arthur K. 
To accept the minutes of 6/30/26.                           Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Arthur-aye and Scott-aye.  
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
   ---FY27 Yearly Grease Trap Permits- Andrew reported that he sent out the permit renewals on 7/1 but has only 
received back a renewal from Ruby Donuts.  He asked the other grease trap owners to submit their renewals by 
August 3rd. Andrew noted that there are 12 establishments with permits for grease traps.  The trap is installed in 3 
bay sinks or interceptors, and each establishment is required to submit a report monthly.  He also clarified that these 
traps do not include the oil/water separators. Dan asked about the grease traps at the schools and Andrew replied 
that they clean it out in June but he will check on that. Dan inquired if the issues at the Mass Ave station could be due 
to grease from the schools but Bill noted that the issue was not grease related.  
   ---990 Mass Ave Expansion of Use (Sewer Regs)- Andrew stated he will not have any update until they meet 
with Town Counsel next week to discuss wording for fees for new multi-unit hookups. If needed, it would go to the 
November Town Meeting. Dan read from the by-law that “ the minimum residential connection charge is $3,900 and 
each separate unit of a multi-unit dwelling shall constitute a separate residential connection.” Scott clarified that 900 
Mass Ave. is a single-family and they pulled a permit for expansion of use with an additional bedroom. Dan added he 
was told that it was to be a 2 family. The Commission discussed the construction at 990 Mass Ave, duplex at 763 
Mass Ave. (the old funeral home property) and duplexes at 792 Mass Ave. (the former Stone Farm property). Scott 
noted there were 2 mailboxes at the former funeral home but Bill stated they have not applied for tie-ins yet.  Bill 
added that the duplexes at the former Stone Farm property have not applied to connect yet. The Commission 
discussed the connection fees and  betterments for duplex projects. Andrew stated they charged a betterment for 
each unit at the 711 duplexes. Dan noted that he was assessed an additional privilege fee and the tie-ins for about 
$11K for his development at 1325 Mass Ave., so they are within their regulations to consider additional fees for extra 
units. He clarified that a privilege fee is ½ of a betterment for making another property out of one that has already 
paid a betterment. The Commission also discussed the 2 duplexes on Electric Ave, across from the church. Bill 
stated there were 2 connections with each unit coming out of the house to a manhole, with 2 tie-ins to the main in the 
street. Scott asked if every application is supposed to come before the Commission. The Commission discussed their 
role in reviewing new permit applications and when permits expire.    
   ---100 Laurel Lane- Bill reported that he put out a work contract for bid to begin 7/21/26.  
   --- CTE contract renewal- Bill reported that the contract will be going out shortly for a 1 year contract, with a 2 year 
option with an opening bid date of 8/3/26.  
 
---Future Agenda Items- 100 Laurel Lane, CTE contract renewal, 900 Mass Ave, Prospect St./Laurel Lane Manhole 
 
---Old Business – Scott inquired about the newly sealed manholes and the day of heavy rain. Andrew replied that he 
could check the data from the flow meters on rainy days. Bill said ideally it would be good to inspect the manholes 
again to determine the next ones needing repairs. Chip suggested they ask the drain-layers to look at manholes near 
where they are working to see if they see any issues to report. The Commission discussed needing to re-assess the 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
manholes noted in the 2014 assessment. Chip added that the as-built form could ask for information on the adjacent 
manholes. Dan asked if there was an update on the manhole on Prospect St. near Laurel Lane and Bill replied it was 
recommended that it be replaced due to its condition, noting it is 15’ deep.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – none 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
July 28, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
August 11, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
August 25, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
September 8, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                Second: Arthur K. 
To adjourn at 6:54 pm.                                           Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Chip-aye, Dan-aye and Scott-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 