===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 5/12/26 Sewer Commission meeting– Regular (Hybrid) Meeting at DPW building. 
Attendees: Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip Wilson, DPW Director- Bill 
Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Absent: Chair- Brett Ramsden  
Scott opened the meeting at 6:11 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 4/28/26 
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                                  Second: Chip W. 
To accept the minutes of 4/28/26.                                              Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye and Scott-aye. 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
    ---Manhole Repair IFB-Andrew emailed the contractor after the last meeting and they replied they would come 
back with dates but he has not heard back.  He will email them again. Bill added they said they would put it on their 
schedule but it has not happened yet. (Arthur joined the meeting.) 
   ---314 Whalom Road- Andrew reported they did a video inspection of the line last Friday and found the lateral.  
There is a tee but they are missing the tie card for the property. A Drain Layer is working on getting them connected 
to sewer because the septic has failed. Bill noted there are sections of Whalom Rd without a main and this property 
is in one of the skipped areas.  They found a hand-drawn sketch with 2 versions of the lateral – one sketch shows the 
lateral going from Otis crossing Whalom to his house but the second sketch shows the lateral stopping in the middle 
of Whalom. Bill screen-shared the 2 sketches and added that the house was also labeled as Wallis Park.  The drain 
layer will dig it up to locate the lateral.  
   ---Q4FY26 Commitment- Andrew reported the Commitment was $304,465.51 and the Commissioners will sign it.  
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                 Second: Chip W.  
To accept the Q4FY26 Commitment.                   Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Dan-aye, Chip-aye and Scott-aye.  
 
   ---Wright-Pierce private sewer ways – Bill reported the DEP wanted information about adaptation plans for 
flooding. Wright-Pierce wrote it all up and they submitted it but DEP came back asking for plans and other 
documentation for private sewer systems. Bill stated these are systems at apartment/condo complexes that are on 
private property but connected to town sewer. DEP gave them 180 days to find all the plans and maintenance 
procedures. They will check for plans at the Passios storage and ask the building department. Arthur suggested 
asking the builders for plans and Scott said to keep it on the agenda for the next meeting.  
   ---100 Laurel Lane -  Bill went out with a metal detector and the questionable As-Built. He hit on a lot of nails but 
could not find it.  Bill said he could rent a Sonde to try tracking the line.  However, he got a call from the project’s 
Drain Layer who said he could continue the 6” line from the manhole to the house for $4,500. The house will have to 
be a pressure line, but the garage ADU will be gravity feed.   
 
---Future Agenda Items- Manhole Repair, 314 Whalom Road, DEP request, 100 Laurel Lane 
 
OLD Business – Bill reported he did not need to do the budget presentation at Town Meeting since it was part of the 
consent calendar.  The last article of the warrant was for the wording change to the sewer by-law.  An attorney stood 
up stating they should keep the word “emergency” but Dan came forward to say the Town Attorney said the change 
was fine. The Article passed with flying colors.    
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 – Bill reported they had a call about a clog at a house on Leominster Road. The clog was in the yard, caused by 
wipes and the owners had to dig it up in order to clear the pipes.   
---The Commissioners agreed to keep all meetings at 6 pm. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
May 26, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
June 9, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
June 30, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
July 14, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                 Second: Chip W.  
To adjourn at 6:45pm.                                           Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, Chip-aye and Scott-aye.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 