===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 9/8/26 Sewer Commission meeting– Regular (Hybrid) Meeting at DPW 520 Chase Road 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Member: Chip Wilson, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew 
Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Absent: Clerk- Dan Proctor and DPW Director- Bill Bernard 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:23 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS – In regard to Arthur Katis leaving the Commission, Brett pointed out that 
Arthur had been a good addition to the Commission. He brought a different view to the board as a customer and 
asked a lot of questions that many of their customers may be wondering about.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 08/25/26 
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                            Second: Chip W. 
To accept the minutes of 08/25/26.                                       Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Chip-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
--- Sewer Business Manager/ DPW Director Updates– 
    ---Special Town Meeting Article on Service and Construction Contracts language- Andrew stated that he 
sent the Commissioners some sample wording for the warrant article and they would need to vote on it since the 
warrant article was due 9/15. 
       Scott read the following wording for the vote: That the Sewer Commission vote to authorize the development 
and advertising of a Comprehensive Procurement for the Sewer Pump Station Operation, Maintenance, 
Emergency Services and Construction Capital repair work to be combined into a single multi-year contract 
and further vote to recommend that a warrant article authorizing the town to enter into such a contract to be 
presented at the November 17, 2026, Special Town Meeting.  
Motion: Chip W.                                                                                                                                Second: Brett R.  
To accept the wording.                                                            Roll Call Vote: Chip -aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
    ---CTE O&M Contract- Andrew reported the CTE contract is extended until 11/25/26 so they can get everything 
completed before their contract expires.  
    ---Touch-A-Truck recap-Andrew noted the event went very well and was well attended.  The weather was good 
and the kids had fun. Scott read a thank you note from Lisa Morency of Dracut, thanking him for providing the 
delicious cotton candy, which her 2-year-old grandson loved.  
    ---Privilege fee assessments 786-796 Mass Ave & 67 Pratt Street- Andrew reported the 786-796 Mass Ave, 
which was the old Stone Farm, had paid 2 betterments and were now assessed a privilege fee of $23,102.96, which 
has been paid. He added that 67 Pratt St is already connected and was assessed a privilege fee of $6,998.74. The 
Commissioners signed the assessments. Andrew said he has a rolling list of those looking to connect. 
---Future Agenda Items- CTE O&M Contract, Special Town Meeting,  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Andrew noted that it has been 20 years since the formation of the Sewer Commission and he 
wanted to recognize the work of all the past and present Commissioners. He acknowledged that Brett has been a 
Commissioner for 6 years and Jane has been doing the minutes for 9 years. Andrew gave out certificates of 
appreciation to both. Brett thanked him and said he is looking forward to the next 3 years. Jane also thanked the 
Commission and noted that she has known many Commissioners through the years.  
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
September 29, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
October 13, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
October 27, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
November 10, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Motion: Chip W.                                                                                                                                 Second: Scott D. 
To adjourn at 6:42 pm.                                                               Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Chip-aye and Brett-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 