===PAGE 1===
M inutes of   2/12/26  Sewer Commission meeting - Hybrid In-Pe rson
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Member : Arthur Katis , DPW Directo r-  
Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager - Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent:  Dan Proctor
Brett  opened the meeting at 6 :48  pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COM MENT  – none
ANNOUNCEMENTS : The Citizen Party Caucus will be March 9, 2026,  at the Middle/High 
School auditorium at 7pm . for candidate voting.
CURRENT BUSINESS –
---Minutes of  12/9/2025
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                           
Second: Arthur K.
To accept the minutes of 12/9/25.                                        Roll Call Vote:  Arthur-aye, Scott-
aye and Brett-aye.
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
    - -User Rates FY27-  Andrew stated that they have to raise rates this coming year  
unfortunately . He provided  and explained  several options to the Commission ers. In July 2024, 
they r aised the rates 1 6% across the board  and looking at FY27, it l ooks like they will need  to 
raise the rates  16% again. Andrew a sked the board if they want to increase the minimum rate 
16% or keep it at 5% . Bill noted they did not raise the rates for the current year but Leominster 
and Fitchburg are charging them more. Also the b etter ment  income is declining as  they  are 
being paid off which means less money coming in . Bill stated the minimum charge is $133  and 
suggested not increasing th e  charge for those wi th  less usage. The Commission discussed the 
minimum charge a nd will not vote on the rate increase until the budget is finalize d. Bi ll  added 
that Fitchburg will be going up 7 % for 5 years , of which they are in the 2 nd  year now  and 
Leominster will be going up 3%. He also pointed out tha t forecasting usage is difficult due to  not 
knowing how much precipitation there will be  impacting usage.  Bill explained the proposed 
budget based on past usage  and the Commissioners discussed it, noting they need to keep up 
maintenance  of the system . Bill is hopeful to have the budget nailed down for the next meeting 
so they can look at the numbers. Scott asked about the delinquency rate now and Andrew 
replied around 20% . The Commission agreed to keep the minimum low  to help those on fixed 
incomes. 
   - -Annual Report FY25-  The Commission  discussed the draft of the Annual Report  prepared 
by Jane . Bill noted that there have been fewer clog issues since they have reminded users to 
only flush water and toilet paper down the system. Scott pointed out that they need to present 
the change of wording in the bylaw at Town Meeting .
Motion: Arthur K.                                                                                                                              
Second: Scott D.
To  accept the Annual Report for FY25.                               Roll Call Vote:  Scott-aye, Arthur-
aye, and Brett-aye.
   - -Q3FY26 Billing-  Andrew  reported the Q3 billing was m ailed on 2/3 /26.   Scott asked if they 
are able to offer a paperless billing option but Andrew said Munis is not set up to do that. The 
Commitment amount is  $296,299.21.
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                            
Second: Arthur K.
===PAGE 2===
To accept the Q3FY26 billing of $296,299.21.                   Roll Call Vote:  Arthur-aye, Scott-
aye and Brett-aye.
The Commissioners signed the Commitment.
   - -Waterworth-   Bill explained that a salesman came in to present their cloud program . They 
would enter all their data along with expenses and the program would com e out with rate  
options . However the cost for a basic service would be  $5 ,000 /year. The advantage would be 
the program can forecast out future years  with various options . Scott  pointed out that they  need 
to ask if the $5 K rate saves  you more than $5K in salary . The Commission discussed  the pros 
and cons of the program . Bill stated the Lunenburg Water District and the Town of Concord are 
using Waterworth  so they can get information on how it is helping them.  A subscription would 
not be done now but could be discusse d o n a future agenda.
   - -Sewer Bylaw for tie-ins-  The C ommission  discussed  the wording  and  Andrew will do up the 
verbiage for the next meeting. 
   - - Winter Commission Meeting Times-  Brett suggested  chang ing their in -person meetings 
from 7pm to 6pm.
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                
Second: Arthur K.
To change the in - per son meeting time to 6pm.                     Roll Call Vote:  Arthur-aye, Scott-
aye and Brett-aye.
--- Future Agenda Items-  adding  new commissioners, rate increase, warrant articles, budget , 
wording for the Bylaw on tie-ins.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Bill suggested that if the public wants to weigh in on their potential rate 
increase, the next meeting on 2/24 would be a good time to do that.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
February 24 , 202 6  @ 6 pm – ( Zoom )  Meeting
March 10 , 202 6  @ 6 pm – Regular ( Hybrid )  In-person Meeting
March  31 , 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting
April  1 4 , 2026 @ 6 pm – Regular (Hybrid) In-person Meeting
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                            
Second:  Arthur K.
To adjourn  at 7:48  pm.                                                       Roll Call Vote:  Arthur-aye, Scott-aye 
and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk