===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Bylaw Review Committee 
Ritter Hall 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday May 12, 2016, 6pm 
1.  Call to Order: Meeting called to order 6:15pm 
2.  Attending: Rob Bowen, Nancy Gray, Cathy Hennessy, Michelle Smith, Kathy Herrick 
3.  Public Comment: None 
4.  Minutes from April 28 th- -one typo correction. Chair entertained motion to approve 
minutes with typo corrected. Second by C. Hennessy. All attending voted to approve 
minutes. 
5.  K. Herrick stated no comments received from outreach letter requesting feedback from 
the various departments on the ByLaws. 
6.  Chair spoke with building inspector on Art. 5 Sec. 8 provision on erecting signs. No 
action taken .  
a.  Both the Chair and the Land Use Director feel Art. 5 Sec. 13  should be covered 
under Zoning Bylaw. This statement was followed by a motion. 
b.  Motion to repeal Art 5 Sec 13 . Second by N. Gray. All attending voted 
unanimously to repeal . 
7.  Chair spoke with Director of Department of Public Works (Jack). Article 5 Section 2  
question whether it addressed town right of way to extend beyond paved ways. Director 
recommends expanding this to include ‘right of way’  as well. Chair recommended the 
committee ask Town Counsel for review. 
8.  Chair spoke with Land Use Director (Adam) on Article 7 . This has been revamped by 
other towns to regulate: Leave permitting to Board of Selectmen (B.O.S.). Under review 
by Land Use Director.  
9.  Chair spoke with the Chief of Police who will review and revise fines within Article 9 . 
10.  Art. 9 Sec. 9 and 10 . Earth Removal ordinance. The Land Use Director opined that the 
Planning Board may be a more appropriate permitting authority than the B.O.S. 
11.  Next task is to summarize all recommendations for submission to B.O.S. from meeting 
minutes held to date by Secretary. 
12.  Codification will be returned soon. Plan to share recommended changes via Interim 
Report to Board of Selectmen. Next meeting will be June 9. 
13.  Adjourn. Motion to adjourn by Chair at 6:55pm. Second by C. Hennessy. All attending 
voted to adjourn. Meeting adjourned. 