===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Capital Planning Committee 
December 5, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
 
Location: Ritter Building  
 
Present: Chairperson Tom Alonzo, David Passios, George Martin, and Peter Beardmore. 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault, Lunenburg Resident Rhonda 
Lissio 
Call to Order: Chairperson Tom Alonzo called meeting to order at 6:07 p.m., and read a statement regarding the Open 
Meeting Law and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely, and how to attend and participate in those 
meetings. Link to recorded meeting: https://youtu.be/3DtWeBgX5tE 
Public Comment:  
CPC Members: Mr. Beardmore made clear that he sees a new ambulance as a top priority, and also acknowledged 
that there is a request to fund that ambulance with some of the $3 million available in ARPA funds. Mr. Beardmore 
added that there is also $2 million dollars in the Special Purpose Stabilization fund, which he believes is for such 
purchases.  Mr. Beardmore pointed out that there is also a request to fund the radio equipment for the fire 
department with ARPA funding. Mr. Beardmore added that ARPA funds have been available for over a year, and the 
requests for the ambulance and radio equipment were made in late summer of 2022. Mr. Beardmore also 
commented on the DPW requests that were approved on Capital Plans from FY22 and FY23 for trucks that are on 
backorder, and suggested using funds currently available to order the other two trucks requested by the DPW now, 
instead of waiting for FY24, and to also purchase the ambulance with available funds, and remove those items from 
the FY24 Capital Plan requests. 
 
Public: Ms. Archambault thanked the committee for their discussion on the safety item requests for the school 
department, and asked that they carefully consider all the items, including the protective film for the windows on the 
schools, and cautioned the committee to make preparations now, and avoid finding the town in a position where they 
are wishing there could’ve been something done to prevent a tragedy. 
 
Discussion of Capital Planning Requests and Preliminary Prioritizations:  
Flat Hill Drainage Construction $240,000: Committee members agreed that this is an important project, but that more 
information is needed in order to justify the amount requested to spend. The main concern is where the water will be drained 
as it’s removed from the current site. 
Senior Center Parking Lot $150,000: Committee members acknowledged that the senior center needs more parking, but 
would like to see more information regarding the ADA Patio project, as well as a more definitive plan for the playground next 
to the proposed parking lot, which accounts for only eight parking spaces.  
Mr. Beardmore rated the project as one of the last items on the list, and pointed out that the amount of money 
requested for the project was submitted before the plans were drawn, and questioned whether $150,000 is a reliable 
estimate for the project. Mr. Alonzo, and Mr. Martin did not give the project a rating. Mr. Passios rated the project as 
number 16 out of 29 items, and clarified that he thinks the project has merit, but also agreed that more information 
would be reassuring, and would support a motion to remove the item from the plan. 
Ms. Lemieux commented that she thinks the parking lot is important as the location will provide access to the new 
patio, and help alleviate parking on Memorial Drive, which has been a problem for several years. Ms. Lemieux added 
that a plan for the lot has been provided to the committee, and she will seek answers on the question of how 
drainage will tie in with the patio.  
Approved by Capital Planning Committee 
at Dec. 28, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Brooks House $130,000: Committee members agreed that if the town can’t decide what to do with the Brooks House, it’s 
challenging to justify putting money into the proposed projects. Mr. Beardmore added that given the recent change in charge 
of the Municipal Building Design Committee, putting money into the Brooks House now, before knowing what that committee 
will determine regarding the Brooks House does pose a challenge. Ms. Lemieux reminded committee members that Town 
Meeting did support selling the Brooks House, but no advertisement has been published.  
Present members current rankings: 
 
After some discussion on whether and how to rank items on the plan regarding pending information as well as additional 
funding sources, committee members agreed some would change their current rankings. Mr. Alonzo anticipates receiving Mr. 
Brenner’s scores by the end of the week, and will edit the chart accordingly as soon as he has everyone’s final responses. 
Minutes: Mr. Beardmore motioned to approve the minutes from the November 7, 2022 meeting, Mr. Passios seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously.  
Action Items: Finalize prioritization 
Confirm subsequent meetings: Wednesday, December 14, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. at the Ritter Building.  
Public Comment: none 
Adjournment: At 7:37 p.m., Mr. Passios motioned to adjourn, Mr. Beardmore seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
