===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Time:
7:00 PM
Attendees:
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Richard Cohen
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Jeffery Luxenberg
Greg Cohan
Margaret Howard
Assoc.
Lunenburg, Superintendent, SBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair of SBC
Lunenburg School Committee, SBC
BOS Representative, SBC
Planning Board, SBC
Finance Committee, Vice Chair of SBC
Citizen, SBC
Citizen, SBC
Citizen, SBC
Town Manger, SBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, SBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, SBC (non-voting member)
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Present
1.
Request for Designer Services (RFS)
JLA reviewed the Request for Designer Services (RFS) with the committee highlighting several items. The
name of the projects for the RFS will be Lunenburg School Project. The RFS Design fee for basic services
will be listed at $400K with $50K in contingency for additional services such as geotech, traffic study, etc.
The estimated construction budget will be listed at $25 million to $59 million. The milestone schedules
listed on page 5 & 6 were discussed with the advertised milestones remaining as listed. The pre-proposal
onsite briefing was confirmed for 12/04/12 at 3:00 PM at LHS. The SBC requested the RFS be advertised in
the Central Register and a local newspaper, rather than the Boston Globe. The local paper selected was
Worcester Telegram & Gazette. The RFS proposal will be issued from JLA website with link to Lunenburg
website. Lunenburg needed to nominate three (3) representatives to serve on the MSBA Designer
Selection Panel for the meeting scheduled for 1/8/2013. The suggested three (3) representatives, per
MSBA guidelines, are: Kerry Speidel, Loxi Jo Calmes and Michael Mackin.
Motion: LSBC moved to approve Kerry Speidel, Loxi Jo Calmes and Michael Mackin to serve as local
representatives on the MSBA Designer Selection Panel and approval of the Draft RFS for Designer.
The Committee voted to recommend approval.
2. Meeting and Milestone Schedule
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
JLA distributed a copy of the proposed Site and Design Alternatives matrix to the group tor review and
comment. The matrix is divided into six (6) main headers with seven (7) sub headers denoted with various
topics. JLA explained the matrix is an evaluation tool weighted for each item from high to weak. The
categories can be modified to better suit Lunenburg. Comments or changes should be directed to JLA for
correction and collection.
4. Formation of Project Coordination Group
JLA discussed with the LSBC the formation of a Project Coordination Group (PCG). This group will meet
regularly during the school day for a variety of items under discussion with the results presented to the
LSBC. The First meeting scheduled date will be coordinated by JLA. Eight (8) members were appointed to
the group with an open invitation to anyone else wishing to participate in any meeting. The eight (8)
members selected were: Loxi Jo Calmes, Michael Mackin, Colleen Shapiro, Richard Cohen, Kerry Speidel,
John Londa, Brian Frank and Tim Santry.
Motion: LSBC moved to recommend approval of the Project Coordination Group.
The Committee voted to recommend approval.
5. Next Discussion Items
JLA recommend at the next LSBC meeting the following topics be discussed: Construction Delivery
methods, set-up of public forum, and review criteria and options on the evaluation matrix.
6. Next Meeting Schedule:
The next meeting will be on Monday, December 17, 7:00 PM in the Thomas C. Passios School, Room 13
7. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:18 p.m.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Greg Cohan from Joslin, Lesser + Associates, Inc. Please notify JLA
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Approved by SBC
December 17, 2012
Page 2 of 2
