===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1
2a.
2b.
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Richard Cohen
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Discussion
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, ISBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Call to Order
Michael Mackin, Chair-Person of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to
order at 7:04 PM.
Meeting Minutes
Joslin, Lesser + Associates distributed the meeting minutes from the prior meeting held on March 13, 2013
in addition to older meeting minutes from November 7, 2012; October 24, 2012; October 10, 2012; and
September 26, 2012. Mark Erickson noted that his last name was spelled incorrectly on some of the 2012
minutes and requested that it be corrected.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve meeting minutes from the March 13, 2013; November 7, 2012;
October 24, 2012; October 10, 2012; and September 26, 2012 Lunenburg School Building Committee
(LSBC) meetings.
Overview of the Preliminary Design Program Submission
Charlie Hay, Tappe provided an update to the ISBC on the March 21 Preliminary Design Program (PDP)
Submission to the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA). The submitted document was shared
with the LSBC prior to the meeting. The PDP describes the fundamentals of the project, documents
existing conditions and District's educational program. Charlie noted that feedback collected at the early
March Educational Visioning and Planning workshops helped to develop the PDP. Charlie staed the PDP
includes Project options, space summary templates and noted this information will be revisedchange
during the planning process as needed. The next submission for the Lunenburg District will be the
Preferred Schematic Report, due on April 18 to the MSBA. This report will include three (3) options that
will be studied during the cureent feasibility phase including a preferred option.
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
Page 1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
2c.
2d.
the project. Option 1 (High School Renovation) would not provide the District with a solution that
accommodates the high school population per MSBA guidelines. Option 2 (Renovation + Limited Addition
to Accommodate Grades 9-12) does not accommodate the District's preferred grade configuration (6-12).
Extensive renovation of the building would also mean that there would be significant disruption to our
students, faculty, and staff and added cost for construction phasing.
Motion: The SBC made a motion to continue studying 3 out of the 5 (the MSBA requires that all projects
study 3 options). The three options include:
Option 3 - Renovation/Addition to Accommodate Grades 6-12
Option 4 - New Replacement to Accommodate Grades 9-12
Option 5 - New Replacement to Accommodate Grades 6-12
The motion was approved (9 voting members voted. 8 voting members voted in favor of the motion;
one voting member voted against the motion).
Thomas C. Passios Elementary School Long Term Plan
The LSBC discussed the future of the Thomas C. Passios Elementary School as it narrowed down the
options that it would like to continue studying as part of the project. Loxi Jo Calmes mentioned that John
Londa drafted a white paper about the school (previously shared with the LSBC) and that both she and he
are available and would be pleased to discuss it with interested Town Committees or individuals. They
plan to brief the Board of Selectmen on this topic at its next meeting.
Project Option Matrix Review
Greg Cohan provided the LSBC with a copy of an options matrix for its review. Greg mentioned that the
matrix is intended to be a tool for the LSBC to use as it continues to compare options to project goals and
determine the preferred option for the project. LSBC members will review and fill in the matrix before the
April 10 LSBC meeting. JLA and Tappe will also fill in the matrix and share it at the April 10 meeting as
well. At this meeting, the LSBC will continue a discussion about the options and select the preferred
option that will be submitted in the Preferred Schematic Report.
2e.
Construction Delivery Methods Presentation
Greg Cohan summarized Design-Bid-Build and Construction Manager (CM) at Risk construction delivery
methods, explaining the points listed in the materials that were shared with the LSBC prior to the meeting.
The LSBC discussed the relative merits of both methods. The LSBC will select the construction delivery
method for the project by vote at its April 10 LSBC meeting. The Lunenburg Board of Selectmen will also
have an opportunity to be briefed on the two methods at its next meeting on April 2.
2f.
Upcoming Meetings and Schedule Milestones
April 2 - Board of Selectmen Meeting to discuss construction delivery methods, 7:00pm (Lunenburg Town
Hall, Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd floor)
April 10 - LSBC Meeting to Vote on the Preferred Project Option and Submission of Preferred Schematic
Report, 7:00pm (Town Hall)
April 18 - Preferred Schematic Report Submitted to the MSBA
Page 2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
2h.
21.
Other Business
There was no other business discussed.
Public Comment
There were no public comments. One member of the public was present at the meeting.
Adjournment
The LSBC moved to adjourn the meeting. The meeting was adjourned at 9:20pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Approved by SBC
April 10, 2013
Page 3 of 3
