===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg School Building Committee - Working Group Project Budget Meeting
Date:
Location: Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
Time:
Next Meeting:
Member/Advisor
 Loxi Jo Calmes Member  
 Michael Mackin Member
 Dave Matthews Member
 Nathan Lockwood Advisor
 Mark Erickson Member
 Greg S. Roy Member
 John Londa Member
 Brian Spadafino Advisor
× Tim Santry Advisor
 Charles Hay Advisor
 Greg Cohan Advisor
× Christine DePalma Advisor
 Jeffery Luxenberg Advisor
 Michael Kearns Advisor
Discussion
1
2
3
10/24/13
5:00 PM
Michael Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to 
order at 5:15 PM. The purpose of the meeting was to review Lunenburg Middle/High School project 
schematic design cost estimates prepared by Tappe and PM & C for additional savings.
TBD
Name Association/Title
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 6:55 PM. 
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this 
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications. 
Director of Facilities
LHS Principal
LMS Principal
●  Greg Cohan and Jeff Luxenberg distributed two (2) Form 3011 cost estimates to the Working group for 
review.   One form was for the previously distributed 3011 form now with the Green House costs rolled 
into the applicable line items.  The other 3011 form was for the Alternative Design with the Green House 
rolled into the applicable cost line items.
●   Each estimate was discussed in detail with the Working Group.  Alternative Design was summarized by 
Tappe explaining several differences from the original design. Several classrooms were moved above the 
Adm. Wing; Gym now located in the center of the school; Public spaces unchanged; Gross square feet 
remains at 167,000 
Review of Lunenburg Middle/High School Cost Estimates and Value Management Discussion
●  Greg Cohan and Jeff Luxenberg discussed with the Working Group the recent request by the MSBA for 
the District to provide documentation concerning the Overlay Zoning 40R and Overlay Zoning 100 units.  
The available reimbursement points to the District could total 1.5 points.
●   Motion was made by Working Group members to remove $1,000,000 from the Design Contingency line 
item of the project estimate and continue value engineering to reduce costs. 
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
Page 1 of 1