===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
2a.
2b.
2c.
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Richard Cohen
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Discussion
Lumenu gone cunnieces, bran
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Call to Order
Michael Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to
order at 7:07 PM.
Meeting Minutes
Joslin, Lesser + Associates (JLA) distributed the meeting minutes from the prior meeting held on April 10,
2013.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve the meeting minutes from the April 10, 2013 meeting. The motion
passed unanimously.
Project Commitments
JLA distributed to the LSBC two (2) design project commitments received from Tappe Associates for review
and approval; First commitment is for a Preliminary Site Survey to be performed by Nitsch Engineering.
Scope of work entails preliminary site survey of proposed project site to identify any wetlands, visible
features, compiled utilities and bounds information. The proposal is for a not to exceed amount for
$20,460.00. Second commitment is for Preliminary Geotechnical Investigation to be performed by Lahlaf
Geotechnical Consulting, Inc (LGCI). The scope of work is for preliminary geotechnical investigation of
proposed project site and perform up to twelve (12) borings in the area of the proposed site. The not-to-
exceed cost amount for this work is $13,937.00.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve both commitments. The motion passed unanimously.
Project Invoices
Greg Cohan from JLA presented for approval copies of Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Tappe Associates
April 2013 Invoices. As requested by a LSBC member Brian Frank in the 4/10/13 meeting, JLA needs to
include the total amount of its contract on future invoices as well as a subtotal showing what has been
billed to date. Tappe and JA's May 2013 invoices show those amounts and will continue to do so.
LOUI
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
members asked questions about several topics, including: shared locker room space for younger/older
children; number of science labs; addressing any abutter concerns early in the approval process; and
added technology spaces. JLA affirmed that the meeting went well and the MSBA by nature of their
questions and opinions seemed in favor of the District's Preferred Option (a new Middle/High School for
2e.
Next Steps in the Feasibility Study/Schematic Design Phase
Greg Cohan briefed the LSBC on the request from the MSBA to move the approval period for the Preferred
Schematic from June 5th to July 31st. Members were briefed on posible outcomes of the request; delay
to overall project schedule with new school opening six (6) months later; design effort for Grades 6 thru 12
comments effecting configuartion after work completed. Greg Cohan requested and received
confirmation of thier desire to hold a Town Meeting to review the project either the last week of
November or first week of December 2013. This information and the District desire to hold schedule will
2f.
2i.
2j.
Project Schedule
May 13, 2013 - JLA/Tappe Meeting with the MSBA
June 17, 2013 - Next LSBC meeting - 7:00PM
Community Outreach Efforts
Mike Mackin reinforced the School Building Committee plans to have a public forum on the project this
fall and will be scheduling several informal briefings on the project this summer. He requested JLA take
the lead to coordinate agenda, date, time, and location.
Other Business
There was no other business.
2k.
Public Comment
3.
There was no public comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:05 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Approved by SBC
June 17, 2013
Page 2 of 2
