===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1
2a.
2b.
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erikson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Richard Cohen
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Discussion
Lunenburg superintendent of schools, LsBu
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Call to Order
Michael Mackin, chair of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the
meeting to order at 7:08 PM.
Meeting Minutes
Joslin, Lesser + Associates distributed the meeting minutes for the prior meeting held
on February 13, 2013. There were several comments on the minutes. Members found
the attendance symbols hard to read and requested a different symbol.
Motion: LSBC moved to approve meeting minutes from the February 13, 2013
Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC) meeting.
Approval of Invoice
Joslin Lesser + Associates submitted Invoice No. 4 for OPM Services for the period of
February 1 thru 28, 2013
Motion: The LSBC voted unanimously to approve Joslin Lesser Invoice Number 4.
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting - Lunenburg, MA
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappe)
(Tappé)
(Tappe)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
Page 1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
Addition/Adaptive Reuse fro MS/HS; New facility fro HS; New Facility for MS/HS. Each
Site and design alternative was discussed highlighting advantages/disadvantages of
each option. LSBC inquired about costing for each option. Both Tappé and JLA
explained it was too early in the process to provide this data but felt the options were
within the advertised construction cost range of $24M to $56M. Tappé briefed the
LSBC on the forthcoming Preliminary Design (PDP) Program submission to the MSBA for
03/20/13. PDP is a requirement of Module 3 requirements with the purpose of
advising the MSBA on the various design options being studied by the District.
Submission of the PDP to the MSBA requires the LSBC to approve the submission.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve the award of the design contract for the
Motion: The LSBC voted unanimously to approve submission of the Preliminary
Design Program (PDP) to the MSBA (of the 8 voting members present, 8 members
voted in favor of submitting the PDP to the MSBA).
Thomas C. Passios Building Use Discussion
John Londa briefed the LSBA on his recent white paper entitled "The future of Thomas
Elementary School" The white paper described the need to decide the future of this
building with backup data highlighting annual operation costs, projected costs and
needs following any other building projects. Solutions and recommendations were
suggested including athletic field use for Town and School. The LSBC took the
information under advisement and recommended the Board of Selectman review and
provide direction.
2d.
2e.
Geo/Environmental Commitment Approval
JLA presented to the LSBC Amendment No. 1 for Tappé Associates in the amount of
$11,660.00 for professional services associated with a Phase One (1) environmental
investigation of the existing Lunenburg High School. The general scope of includes is to
establish whether there are any known hazardous materials at the site with preliminary
analysis of hazardous materials inside the existing building.
Motion: The LSBC voted to approve Tappe' Amendment No. 1 for Geo-Environmental
Services in the amount of $11,660.00.
Working Group Meetings
JLA briefed the LSBC of the upcoming meetings/submissions as highlighted on the
Projected Meeting and Milestone Schedule. The need to meet more frequently than
once a month will be necessary. Working Group meetings consisting of members of the
LSBC and/or other interested participants will be scheduled in the forthcoming weeks.
Additionally bimonthly meetings of the LSBC will also need to be scheduled. LSBC
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting - Lunenburg, MA
Page 2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
2g.
2h.
2i.
Other Business
There was no other business discussed.
Public Comment
There were no public comments. One member of the public was present at the
meeting.
Upcoming Meetings and Schedule Milestones
March 19 - Board of Selectmen Meeting to discuss CM-at-Risk, 7:00pm (Lunenburg
Town Hall, Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd floor)
March 27 - LSBC Meeting to review PDP Submission, CM-at-Risk, Preferred Building
Option, 7:00pm (Thomas C. Passios Elementary School)
April 10 - LSBC Meeting to Vote on Preferred Building Option, 7:00pm (Thomas C.
Passios Elementary School)
Adjournment
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of
receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Approved by SBC
March 27, 2013
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting - Lunenburg, MA
Page 3 of 3
