===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Location:
Thomas C. Passios School
Time:
7:00 PM
INCORDE
Attendees:
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Richard Cohen
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Jeffery Luxenberg
Greg Cohan
Margaret Howard
Assoc.
Lunenburg, Superintendent, SBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair of SBC
Lunenburg School Committee, SBC
BOS Representative, SBC
Planning Board, SBC
Finance Committee, Vice Chair of SBC
Citizen, SBC
Citizen, SBC
Citizen, SBC
Town Manager, SBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, SBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, SBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Present
x
1. Meeting Minutes
JLA distributed the meeting minutes for the prior meeting held on December 17, 2012. There were not
any additional comments or questions on the minutes.
Motion: LSBC moved to approve meeting minutes from the December 17, 2012 Luneburg School Building
Committee meeting.
The Committee voted to recommend approval.
2. Model School Program
LSBC requested additional information concerning the Model School Program for use in Lunenburg and
requirements. Greg Cohan explained his understanding of the program but requested any further
questions be tabled for Jeff Luxenberg and the selected design firm
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
opportunity to review the High School, Middle School and Power Plant prior to the interview. Design firms
have been instructed to keep questions and comments to a minimal but use the opportunity to develop
their presentation to the DSP.
5. Invoice and Commitment Approval
JLA submitted Invoice No. 2 for services performed for the period of December 1 thru 31, 2012. Greg
Cohan stated any expenses expended by the District should be forwarded to JLA for inclusion into the next
invoice payment period.
Motion: LSBC moved to recommend approval of JLA invoice number 2.
The Committee voted to recommend approval.
6. Next Meeting Schedule:
The next meeting will be on Wednesday, February 13, 2013 at 7:00 PM in the Thomas C. Passios School,
Room 13
7. Adjournment
These meeting minutes were prepared by Greg Cohan from Joslin, Lesser + Associates, Inc. Please notify JLA
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Approved by SBC
February 13, 2013
Page 2 of 2
