===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
X
1
2a.
2b.
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Ron Simoneau
Michael Kearns
Craig Gabri
Steve Ham
Discussion
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
order at 7:05 PM.
Michael Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to
Meeting Minutes
The LSBC reviewed the meeting minutes (distributed by Joslin, Lesser + Associates within the meeting
packet) from the prior meeting held on July 24, 2013.
Motion: The ISBC moved to approve the meeting minutes from the July 24, 2013 meeting. The motion
passed unanimously.
Monthly Approvals
Christine DePalma from JLA presented for approval Budget Revision Request # 1 and copies of Joslin,
Lesser + Associates and Tappe Associates July 2013 Invoices. Christine explained that a Budget Revision
Request is the formal mechanism by which the MSBA allows us to shift funds from one budget category to
another (over the course of any MSBA project, Budget Revision Requests are anticipated and processed
accordingly). Budget Revision Request Number 1 will cover the gap between the current Other budget line
item (which is currently $25,000) and the required line item value (which is $48,000) to fund the
Schematic Design Phase Pre-Construction services for Shawmut. To do this, $23,000 will be shifted from
the Architect budget category to the Other budget category.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve Budget Revision Request # 1. The motion passed unanimously.
Motion: The ISBC moved to approve the July 2013 invoices for Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Tappe
Associates. The motion passed unanimously.
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
Performance Schools (MA CHPS) standards. MA CHPS is a program that is actively advancing the design
and construction of schools known as "high performance, green schools" that reduce the use of energy,
water, and other materials. Some of the green features of the project will include high efficiency boilers,
high efficiency lighting, low-flow plumbing fixtures, use of materials with recycled content, whole building
management controls, with an efficient building envelope system. The roof will also be designed to
accommodate photovoltaic panels should the Town/District have an opportunity to add them in the
future once the project is complete. Christine DePalma mentioned that a conference call with the MSBA
has been confirmed for September 3 to discuss design enrollment. The LSBC also discussed when the
project will be presented at Town Meeting and when the Town Vote would occur. The Vote must occur
within 120 days of November 20, the anticipated date of the project's scope and budget approval by the
MSBA's Board of Directors. Following discussion, it was determined that the Town Meeting and Town Vote
would both occur in early January 2014. The dates will be confirmed by the Town Manager.
2e.
Upcoming Meetings
Loxi Jo Calmes, Mike Mackin, Charles Hay, and Greg Cohan continue to meet with various Committee and
Boards in Town. Within the next month, the team will provide project updates to the Planning Board and
the Capital Planning Committee. LSBC members will also be attending upcoming school open houses to
answer any questions that parents may have about the project (design boards will be on display). The next
LSBC meeting will be held on Monday, September 30 at 7:00pm.
2f.
Community Outreach Efforts
Twitter and Facebook pages have been created for the project. Links to the pages can be found on the
project's website. The Facebook page has over 200 followers. The pages will be used to post project
updates as well as design plans and images. The project's website also continues to be updated and a
Frequently Asked Questions page was recently added. The District is also creating a video that will
document existing conditions at the high school.
2g.
Other Business
There was no other business.
2h.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
3.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:12pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
