===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
2a.
2b.
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Richard Cohen
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Discussion
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, ISBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Call to Order
Michael Mackin, Chair-Person of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to
order at 7:04 PM.
Meeting Minutes
2013.
unanimously.
Joslin, Lesser + Associates distributed the meeting minutes from the prior meeting held on March 27,
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve meeting minutes from the March 27, 2013. The motion passed
Project Invoices
The LSBC discussed the Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Tappe Associates March 2013 invoices presented
for its approval. Brian Frank requested that Joslin, Lesser + Associates include the total amount of its
contract on future invoices as well as a subtotal showing what has been billed to date.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve the Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Tappe Associates March 2013
invoices. The motion passed unanimously.
Page 1 of 2
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(LA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
===PAGE 2===
2e.
2f.
2g.
comments and ask questions on the options. Joslin, Lesser + Associates, the Owner's Project Manager for
the project, reviewed an Options Matrix which was designed to evaluate the options according to how
well each meets project goals. This exercise inspired more discussion on the options and how each of
them did or did not meet educational, community, building/facility, and site goals for the project. The SBC
also discussed the anticipated and preliminary order of magnitude costs for the options and engaged in a
discussion on potential future costs to the town (for example, if a particular option was chosen are there
implications for Turkey Hill Middle School or the Thomas C. Passios Building). It was also mentioned that
the Board of Selectmen reviewed the three options and voted 4-1 in favor of Option 5.
Motion: The SBC made a motion to select Option 5 as its preferred option. The motion passed
unanimously.
Construction Delivery Methods Discussion and Vote
Greg Cohan summarized Design-Bid-Build and Construction Manager (CM) at Risk construction delivery
methods, explaining the points listed in the materials that were shared with the ISBC prior to the meeting.
The LSBC discussed the relative merits of both methods. It was mentioned that the Lunenburg Board of
Selectmen were briefed on the construction delivery methods and voted to support CM at Risk.
Motion: The LSBC made a motion to adopt CM at Risk as the construction delivery method for the
project. The motion passed unanimously.
Note: The Town will now submit an application to use CM at Risk for the project to the Office of the
Inspector General (IG).; Approval process by the Office of the Inspector General is anticipated to take 60
days.
Upcoming Meetings and Schedule Milestones
April 18, 2013 - Preferred Schematic Report Submitted to the MSBA
May 8, 2013 - Next LSBC meeting - 7:00PM
Community Outreach Efforts
Superintendent Calmes mentioned that the School Building Committee's website includes up to date
information on the project. She also mentioned that tonight's meeting was being televised and that it
would also be available on the District's YouTube channel. The School Building Committee plans to have a
public forum on the project this fall and will be scheduling several informal briefings on the project this
summer.
2h.
Other Business
There was no other business.
2i. Public Comment
There was no public comment. There were several members of the community present at the meeting.
3.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:50pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
Approved by SBC
May 8, 2013
