===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1
2a.
2b.
michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Discussion
Lunenburg scoot committee, Chall
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Call to Order
order at 7:00 PM.
Michael Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to
Meeting Minutes
Joslin, Lesser + Associates (JLA) distributed the meeting minutes from the prior meeting held on May 8,
2013.
Motion: The ISBC moved to approve the meeting minutes from the May 8, 2013 meeting. The motion
passed unanimously.
Project Invoices
Greg Cohan from JLA presented for approval copies of Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Tappe Associates
May 2013 Invoices.
Motion: The LSBC moved to approve the Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Tappe Associates May 2013
invoices. The motion passed unanimously.
2c. Design Status Update
Charles Hay from Tappé Associates, provided the School Building Committee with an update on the
project's design. Since the Committee last met in May, Tappé has made significant progress on developing
the project's schematic plans. Mr. Hay reviewed updated plans with the Committee and welcomed
feedback. Mr. Hay noted that Tappé will be making some adjustments to the plans based on feedback
gathered at workshops held earlier in the day with school teachers, staff, and administration. He also
noted that Town regulatory officials would have an opportunity to review the plans on June 18. Mr. Hay
also distributed some initial massing diagrams and explained that the concepts shown begin to define
building character. Mr. Hay noted that the plans will continue to be developed over the next couple of
months so that they can be provided to estimators for costing.
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
2e.
Lunenburg High school project. the motion passed unanimously.
Construction Manager Prequalification/Selection Committee
The School Building Committee voted to establish a Construction Manager at Risk
Prequalification/Selection Committee. Members include: Dave Matthews, Mark Erickson, and John Londa
in addition to Greg Cohan from Joslin, Lesser + Associates and Charles Hay from Tappé Associates. The
Selection Committee will review and evaluate submitted CM at Risk qualifications; interview the firms
which submit full proposals; and recommend the top-ranked firm for the CM at Risk contract. The School
Building Committee will vote to approve the CM at Risk contract to the top-ranked firm at its July meeting.
2f.
Rich Cohen, LSBC Member - Resignation Letter
Due to a conflict of interest, Rich Cohen, LSBC Member, submitted his resignation to the LSBC (Rich will
begin teaching at Lunenburg High School in the fall). The LSBC thanked Rich for his service and will begin
to recruit a new member and will provide the MSBA with an updated membership list once confirmed.
2g.
Upcoming Meetings
Meeting with Town Regulatory Officials - June 18, 2013
Educational Technology Workshop - June 18, 2013
Working Group Meetings (to be confirmed)
LSBC Meeting - July 24, 2013
2h.
Community Outreach Efforts
The School Building Committee plans to hold a public forum on the project in the Fall of 2013.
At any time, members of the School Building Committee are available to meet with members (individuals
and groups) of the public interested in learning more about the project. Please reach out to Mike Mackin,
School Building Committee chairperson for more information.
The meeting was filmed and can be viewed on the District's YouTube channel.
2i.
Other Business
There was no other business.
3.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:51pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
