===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Michael Mackin
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Greg S. Roy
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Michael Kearns
Discussion
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, ISBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Director of Facilities
LHS Principal
LMS Principal
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
cipal in Charge, taper Associate
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
Michael Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC), called the meeting to
order at 5:05 PM. The purpose of the meeting was to review Lunenburg Middle/High School project
schematic design cost estimate to determine if any additional value management items could be
identified by the project team.
Review of Lunenburg Middle/High School Cost Estimates and Value Management Discussion
• Greg Cohan briefly reviewed the project schematic design cost estimate data that was reviewed at the
Lunenburg School Building Committee meeting on September 30, 2013.
• Mr. Cohan also distributed a file that the MSBA assembled tracking schematic design cost estimate
data on school projects (this information was requested by the Working Group and distributed in advance
of the meeting). Mr. Cohan explained that it is challenging to compare any of the projects on the
spreadsheet to the Middle/High School project. Some of the projects are more than a few years old and
the construction market has changed since then. In addition, the spreadsheet does not provide additional
context on the projects such as special circumstances that make the project unique (such as site
conditions, etc.).
• Mr. Hay distributed a file generated by its cost estimator, PM & C. The file provided some cost estimate
data on some recent school projects.
• The Working Group engaged in a discussion about the estimates and the potential value management
choices that it can consider. One approach would be to identify stand alone scope items that could be
listed as additional alternates. The team discussed that beyond the Greenhouse that it may be difficult to
identify additional alternates. Any alternates would need to be covered by Owner's Contingency (all costs
would be excluded by the MSBA).
• Mr. Hay distributed a list of additional potential value management items for the Working Group to
review and consider. None of the items on the list would negatively effect the project's educational
program/vision. Tappe and Shawmut will analyze these items for cost and the Working Group will be
provided with updated cost estimate data at its next meeting.
• Some members of the Working Group had general questions about the cost of green projects. Mr. Hay
provided some clarification on this topic. Designing a sustainable design school is not optional, it is
required. Under the MSBA program, every school project must qualify for CHPS or LEED in order to receive
any funding from the state. The MSBA requires that you meet the base standard of CHPS "verified" for
participation in project funding. They do not provide any added reimbursement for meeting this base
Member
Member
Advisor
Member
Member
Member
Advisor
Advisor
Advisor
Advisor
Advisor
Advisor
Advisor
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
3
advance of its meeting on October 24.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 6:50pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
