===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
•JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting
109/10/14
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
6:30 PM
10/8/146:30 PM
x
1
2
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member) •
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Project Architect, Tappé Architects
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Discussion
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:34 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following
meetings:
• August 13, 2014 LSBC Meeting
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting
minutes from August 13, 2014.
Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Page 1 of 4
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
3-
Discussion
Monthly Approvals - Invoices
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress invoices for work
completed through August, 2014 for Joslin, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe
Architects (Designer), Shawmut Design & Construction (Preconstruction Services &
Payment Requisition No.1).
4
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the August
2014 invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Note: JLA is working on creating a calendar with expected Construction Payment
Requisions review and value dates. This calendar will be issued to the LSBC upon
completion. All Construction Payment Requisions are going to be submitted as a
hard copy with yellow cover pages for each sub-trade. Yelolow sheet is a summary
of the associated trade with contract values, holds, allowances and any change
orders.
Monthly Approvals - Commitments
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JA) presented a list of monthly commitments to the
Lunenburg School Building Committee (I.SBC). iGMP2 was presented to the Group
for structural steel. JLA noted that the total value for iGMP2 is lower than previously
estimated by at least $300K.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the iGMP2 as
presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was unanimously approved.
Note: Final GMP will be available sometimes in November, 2014. Updated Projected
Cash Flow Chart will be available in September 2014.
5
Additional Service Request for all work associated with Permitting the Project
JLA presented Tappe Architects' (TA) request for additional services for site
permitting fees. Permitting was excluded from Design contract at time of award.
This would be a contract amendment to contract in place.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the additional
services requested presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates on behalf of Tappe
Architects' (TA) to TA's contract for permitting fees. The motion was unanimously
approved.
Page 2 of 4
===PAGE 3===
JOSLIN, LESSER T ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
Status of Main Bid Package Pre-Qualifications
Joslin Lesser & Associates explained the sub trade Pre-qualification process. JLA
explained to the LSBC that most sub trades that did not yet qualify are missing
references. JLA is working on obtaining references as it in the best interests to
prequalify as many interested sub trades as possible.
JLA will provide a schedule of Main Bid process as soon as it is available for
distribution.
7
Construction Activity Update
Michael Kearns from Shawmut Design & Construction presented a construction
progress update, • Site enabling is in progress.
• Delivery of materials is in progress.
• Rolling & compaction work which causes vibration will continue through Fall.
• Rebar work, anchor bolts and foundation work is scheduled to commence in early
October.
• Meeting was held in regards landscape design. Field work is underway and
estimated to be completed in the Fall.
• Gas line relocation scope & work is in progress. The cost will be rolled in the final
GMP.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the
Shawmut trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is
available to set up time for site visit.
8
Main Bid Package Pre-Qualification Committee Member Selection
Joslin Lesser and Associates (JLA) began the sub-trade prequalification process for
the main bid. It is expected to send invitation to bid on Friday 09/12/14. JLA asked
for one representative from Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC) to be
involved in the pre-qualification process. Brain Frank was appointed to represent the
LSBC
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC) voted in favor for Brain
Frank to represent LSBC during the pre-qualification process. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Page 3 of 4
===PAGE 4===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC,
9
10
11
12
Discussion
Community Outreach Efforts
Next Abutters'/Neighborhood Meetings is scheduled for:
• November 6th at 6:30 PM
An Abutter's / Neighborhood meeting was held on September 4, 2014. Landscpe
Architect David Wagner presented the landscape design for the project. Rob Alger
(JLA) was introduced as the main point of contact for all future questions. Most
questions were directed to the concerns in regards to vibration, however overall the
meeting for good and productive.
A previous video from David Wagner presentation on the landscape design for the
school will be posted to the school website.
Other Business
Aerial Photo Service - JLA will obtain pricing for 50 fly-overs through out the project
duration. Would like to be able to get 50 fly-overs for about $450.00.
Ground Breaking Ceremony - The ceremony is scheduled for October 18th at
1:15PM. The event will be after a town parade scheduled to commence at 12:00.
Homecoming game will follow at around 2:30pm. There will be a need for about 50
Seats and a podium. The sign will be temporary located at the entrance to the site. A
representative from MSBA will be invited to speak at the event. The Invitation will
go out via posts cards, Facebook and website as well as posted in the Lunenburg
Ledger.
Reuse Thomas C. Passios Building - Options for the Thomas C. Passios Building reuse
are being reviewed by the Lunenburg Reuse Committee. Any impact will be shared
with LSBC.
Public Comment
No Public Comment
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 08:03 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 4 of 4
