===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTURE
PLANNING
TAPPÉ ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg Middle High School
Landscape Working Session
Passios Elementary School
Wednesday March 5, 2014
Minutes
Attendees:
Loxi Jo Calmes
Tim Santry
Brian Spadafino
John Londa
Peter McCauliff
Sandy Laserte
Michael Mackin
David Warner
Charlie Hay
9:30 am
Superintendent LPS
Principal Turkey Hill Middle School
Principal Lunenburg High School
Director of Facilities LPS
Athletic Director LPS
Turkey Hill Middle School Physical Education
Chair Lunenburg School Building Committee
Warner Larson Landscape Architects
Tappe Associates Architects
Alternative Site Layout
An alternative site layout was briefly discussed that would either maintain student parking
in current design location and have a road that connected it over to the main project
access drive or relocate parking to the west side of fields with access from lot to main
access drive. It was noted that the negative attributes of these options was significant in
terms of traffic issues. Students entering and exiting into the main drive could create
significant traffic congestion at this location. It is anticipated that students exiting onto
access drive and turning left to exit onto Mass Ave will also create added congestion and
backups at this location. It was agreed by all present that there did not appear to be
enough of a benefit to pursue this option further.
Athletic Fields
The option to eliminate a portion of the existing high school driveway loop in Phase 1 in
order to accommodate a full size field along MA Ave was discussed and approved. This is
necessary to construct soccer field for immediate use. Field anticipated to be 195' or 200'
× 330'. This will require one way high school traffic and possible relocation of HC parking.
School will notify parents and public of change in traffic pattern for September 2014.
===PAGE 2===
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTURE
PLANNINO.
Landscape Design Working Session
TAPPE ASSOCIATES, INC. Pg2 of4
3-5-14
The new soccer field will be irrigated and sodded. It is anticipated that the field will be
available for use by early/mid Oct 2014. This may require a temporary water connection
for irrigation to be replaced after demo of existing building. 4' black vinyl coated chain
link fence offset from Mass Ave sidewalk (10' +/- to allow snowbank) was approved to
stop ground balls. It was agreed that any tall netting to stop all balls would be undesirable
along Mass Ave and will not be included.
The bleacher location on east side (facing west) of new fields was discussed at length and
the pros/cons understood. The location as currently shown with 600 seats was approved
based on proximity to game day parking and the memorial entrance gate.
The east field closest to the new bleachers will accommodate a 210' wide soccer field and
can also be striped as a football game field. This will be the designated game field and will
not be used for practices, the field will be seeded and irrigated. A synthetic turf field
option would be desirable and this might be an option at the end of the project if there is
remaining contingency available but base contract will be natural grass. The west field will
be at a football practice field (seeded and Irrigated) with a reduced width to 140' to allow
for the 210' wide soccer field. 6' vinyl coated chain link fence will surround fields.
One drinking fountain was requested at a location that can be accessed from all 3 new
fields.
Owner noted that Mike Berry, the Musco rep indicated the 2 existing poles at the existing
fields are unable to be relocated (to be scrapped). New scope will be a 4-pole sports
lighting system for the game field, with one-sided lighting of football practice field from
the 2 new westerly poles.
Field equipment requested: 2 sets of soccer goals (4-wheel/goal system), 2 gooseneck
NCAA football goals (not adjustable uprights), 2 sets of field hockey goals.
A new scoreboard is not in scope and the Owner will seek to furnish this from
donations. Project needs to locate and provide power. The existing football scoreboard is
to be salvaged and provided to the Owner who will relocate to track (scoreboard at track
does not operate below 35 degrees).
Press box scope was discussed. It can be minimum size, modular, prefab system with
wheelchair lift to floor (roof not accessible except maintenance hatch via interior wali-
mounted ladder). Include basic PA system.
===PAGE 3===
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTUAR
PLANNINO
Landscape Design Working Session
Pg 3 of 4
3-5-14
TAPPE ASSOCIATES, INF. It was agreed that there will be no lighting at tennis or basketball. Pedestrian lighting was
requested in the grove at the memorial between student parking and concession. This
area is apparently dark currently.
Site Design and Grading Design
It was noted that the drop off in front of the school will accommodate 10 busses, this
amount of busses was confirmed as the correct quantity to plan for.
Auto pick up and drop off was reviewed with discussion of options for a second loop. It
was decided that a single loop is the best approach as students of different ages are
picked up and dropped off in the same car so a designated "middle school" loop will not
be helpful.
Hardscape will generally be poured concrete, possibly some colored concrete introduced.
Concern was raised regarding existing underground electrical and drainage between the
existing concession building and the existing track. Construction of a new access road
around rear of building with retaining wall may impact these utilities. A discussion was
held regarding the merits of the new road being routed to the other side of the concession
building but it was noted that this would damage existing trees and disrupt the existing
memorial area. It was decided by those present to keep the current design layout.
Concern was raised regarding the grade along top of the slope adjacent to the existing
bleachers (spectators slip and fall in this area when trying to watch games on the field).
There was a request to stabilize this area when constructing the fire lane. It was noted
that the fire lane will provide a flat surface for spectators to watch games on the field
below.
A 6' high wood screen fence is proposed to be located between parking lot and abutter at
at parking closest to Oak Ave (no evergreens here). Dense evergreen buffer planting only
without a fence is proposed between the south end of the abutters lot and the proposed
building/service area.
A Black vinyl coated chain link fence is proposed around the PE lawn north of the gym. 4'
height was confirmed as acceptable.
Discussion was held about the merits of a pedestrian connection between the new school
and the Turkey Hill School. It was confirmed that such a connection is desirable and
should remain in the design, but should be configured to be as direct as possible without
compromising use of the flat lawn area, which is irrigated and the hill that is used for
archery and sledding.
===PAGE 4===
•
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATAS
ARCHITECTURE
PLANNINO
TAPPE ASSOCIATES, INC.
Landscape Design Working Session
Pg 4 of 4
3-5-14
A discussion was held related to outdoor activities such as ceremonies etc. It was agreed
that the new small field to the north of the gym could function as a lawn for céremonies or a
tent if that was ever required, no additional area is necessary.
Memorial gate will be preserved close to fields.
It was agreed that no exterior maintenance building will be included as part of the scope of
the project so no slab will be provided for a future location.
Signage for the new school will be located at Mass Ave and Oak Ave driveway
entrances. Possibly an identity sign could also be located at the lawn island in the bus
loop. Lighting will be provided at all identity sign locations and this power could potentially
accommodate future digital signage which is not included within the contract. Way finding
and traffic control signage and pavement markings are included within the contract scope.
The entrance roadway will have speed tables that are 12' wide to slow traffic entering and
exiting the site.
!
