===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Building Committee
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
05/14/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
6:30 PM
6/11/14 7:00 PM
Name
x
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Steve Hamm
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, ISBC Member
Town Manager, ISBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-vating member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Discussion
call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:38 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson for the Lunenburg School Building
Committee.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
Thè Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following meeting: April 9, 2014;
Motion: The Lunenburg School Bullding Committee voted to approve the minutes from the April 9, 2014.
The motion was unanimously approved.
Monthly Approvals
Joslin Lesser + Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress invoices for work completed for through April
2014 for Joslin, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe Associates (Designer) and Shawmut Design &
Construction (Preconstruction services). Invoices were presented for approval but not for payment. Untit
the MSBA Project Funding agreement is signed, all invoices will be reviewed for content, work scope and
hours but not issued for payment.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the April 2014 Invoices as
presented by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. The motion was unanimously approved.
Update from April 30, 2014 MSBA Meeting
LE S
Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(ILA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
Greg Cohan briefed the LSBC on the discussions from the April 30, 2014 MSBA Meeting. The purpose of
the meeting was to make the District, OPM and Designer aware of the issues the MSBA was having with
the Design changes performed late in the Preferred Schematic process. Each Board Member present at
the meeting expressed their dissatisfaction with being placed in position to review a situation outside of
the accepted process of approvals. District, OPIM and Designer shared with the Board Members a
presentation of the Design changes with explanations. Mike Mackin also briefed the Committee members
on his thoughts from the meeting. Meeting was concluded by the Project Team adjourning into another
conference room with the MSBA's Educational consultant, Diane Sullivan and Chris Alles to finalize the
discussions.
District was Informed at that time MSBA Board will review the explanations furnished and
provide their decision on or before the next meeting of the MSBA Board scheduled for June 4, 2014. If
additional material is required MSBA will forward all questions to the OPM for action.
Early Release Package No. 1
Greg Cohan introduced Jonathan Hirst, Shawmut's new Project Manager. Resume for Jonathan Hirst was
distributed to all members prior to the meeting. Jonathan has taken over for the prior Project Manger who
has left the company for another position close to home. Greg Cohan went on to explain to the LSBC the
results of the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for Early Package work consisting of Underground Electric.
LSBC was reminded Plumbing and Elevator trades were removed from this early package. Shawmut
briefed the LSBC on non-trade bids for site work and site logistics, emphasizing on the need to find a
permanent location till needed. Site work trailer locations is still being investigated with the District
offering use of the Modular Structure at the rear of the TCP. Shawmut will investigate the practically of its
use.
Community Outreach Efforts
Project Team proposed an Abutter's meeting for June 25th. Further details to be discussed at the next
meeting
Other Business
Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools inquired about the DESE material requested by Diane Sullivan and
being prepared by Tappe. Loxi was to provide her recommendations with the expectations the material
would checked by the Designer and OPM before submission. Greg Cohan informed the LSBC Christine
DePalma had tended her resignation from JLA suddenly and she would be leaving in two(2) weeks. Search
for her would commence immediately.
Public Comment
192
There was no public comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 7:43pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates, Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
