===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg Middle/High School Abutter's Meeting
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
06/25/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Cafeteria
6:00 PM
TBD
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Mike Barney
John Londa
Greg Cohan
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Steve Ham
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Discussion
105 LL
LESSI
Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Call to Order
Committee.
The meeting was called to order at 6:00 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson for the Lunenburg School Building
Project Schedule Overview
Greg Cohan from JIA gave a brief Project schedule overview to the members of the public in attendance.
Each stage of the Design process was explained with emphasis given to the most recent stages of Design;
100% Design Development (DD) and 60% Construction Documents (CD). Major milestones were
outlined/discussed from the Early Site Enabling Package thru Project Completion. Greg Cohan explained
several scope items are still under design; furniture, technology and final landscaping details. Expect these
items to be completed by end of September, 2014.
Site Access / Safety
Shawmut Project Team described the plans under way for Site Access, Logistics and Construction.
Shawmut used a Site Logistics drawing enciosed in the agenda and on the front wall to show the residents
the various staging areas, contractor parking, truck entrance and possible locations of storage material.
Shawmut emphasized each worker on site will be CORI checked by the District before they will be allowed
on site.
Once approved, a worker will receive a Project sticker to be placed on their hard hat showing
permission to be onsite. No workers are allowed to be in contact with the students or in the existing
buildings. Truck traffic will be kept to the minimum; No Idling, specific loading hours and if issues develop
will work with the local authorities to resolve.
Emergency Contact
Greg Cohan, OPM informed the attendees a Site Representative will be onsite through out the project,
from street to completion. Anytime work is ongoing, the Site Representative will be in attendance. All
questions, concerns or comments should be directed to this individual. Point of contact information of the
Site Representative will be distributed and posted for all Abutters in the short term but moist likely when
Project Trailers are installed
Public Comment
Question and answers period was held. Many of the questions involved Site Traffic; Site conditions;
Drainage; recent Planning Board meeting questions; Landscaping questions/concerns. Abutters felt their
questions/comments were satisfactorily answered with further follow-up warranted if needed.
Follow-Up
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
OPM pledged to establish a means of communications not only for those who own a computer but those
Abutters who do not for future meetings or updates. Provide email address, cell phone number and Site
Trailer phone number of Site Representative when available. Next meeting will have Landscape Architect
in attendance to review Site Plan and scope of work.
$10
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 7:10 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Jaslin, Lesser + Associotes within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
