===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Bullding Committee
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
01/15/14
Lunenburg Town Hall
7:00 PM
12/12/14 6:30 PM
* Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Ron Simoneau
Michael Kearns
Craig Gabri
Steve Ham
Discussion
Association/Title
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, ISBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senlor Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Callito Order
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM. Mr. Mackin and Superintendent Calmes thanked LSBC
members and the consultant team for their efforts at and leading up to the January 7 Special Town
Meeting.
Approval of Meeting Minutes
The meeting minutes from the January 6, 2014 LSBC meeting were reviewed and unanimously approved.
195 LIN
LESSER
Project Management
Affillation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(ISBC)
(LSBC,
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Joslin, Lesser + Associates Owner's Project Manager Contract Amendment
The 1.S8C reviewed a contract amendment for Joslin, Lesser + Associates. The amendment was for project
management services from the design development phase through project closeout. The proposed fee for
services was consistent with the project's total budget and MSBA Form 3011. The contract amendment
was unanimously approved. Joslin Lesser will work with the Town of Lunenburg to process the contract
with the MSBA.
Tappé Associates Contract Amendment
The LSBC reviewed a contract amendment for Tappé Associates. The amendment was for designer
services from the design development phase through project closeout. The proposed fee for services was
consistent with the project's total budget and MSBA Form 3011. ISBC members noted a typo or error on
the amendment. Joslin Lesser will revise the amendment accordingly. The contract amendment was
unanimously approved. Joslin Lesser will work with Tappé Associates and Town of Lunenburg to process
the contract with the MSBA.
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN; LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
Revlew ofiMSBA Module 6- Design Details
Charlie Hay from Tappe Associates provided the LSBC with an update on the design development phase.
Mr. Hay mentioned that a series of design development workshops and meetings would be set up over
the next few weeks. These meetings will engage district faculty, staff, and administrators in the design
process as weil as the Working Group and other representatives (such as regulatory officials) from the
Town of Lunenburg. Tappe will work with Joslin Lesser and the district to confirm the schedule of
meetings and it will be shared with the LSBC. Greg Cohan from Joslin, Lesser + Associates provided LSBC
members with a copy of the project's schedule and preliminary logistics plan. Mike Kearns from Shawmut,
Design and Construction mentioned that the pre-qualification process for trade contractors would
commence this spring. LSBC members expressed interest in informing local contractors about the project
in an effort to invite them to submit qualifications should they be elieible. The LSBC also discussed future
LSBC meeting dates. It was determined that the LSBC will meet every second Wednesday of the month.
Meetings will begin at 6:30pm and take place in the Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13. Joslin Lesser will
confirm the 2014 meeting schedule and distribute it to the ISBC.
Other Business
Jeffery Luxenberg from Joslin, Lesser + Associates noted that a contract amendment is not required for
Shawmut Design and Construction. Joslin Lesser will send a Notice to Proceed letter to Shawmut for the
Design Development, Construction Documents, & the Bid Phase.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:10pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
