===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATES
PLANHINO
TArPi ASSOCIATEs, INc.
Lunenburg Middle / High School
Regulatory Working Session #2
Passios Elementary School
Wednesday March 5, 2014
Minutes
Attendees:
Mike Sauvageau
Tim Marini
Pat Sullivan
Jan Carrier
Dave Matthews
Fran McNamara
Joanna Bilotta Simeone
Jack Rodriquenz
Loxi Jo Calmes
John Londa
Mike Mackin
David Warner
Shawn Smith
Paul Finnerty
Kevin Alles
Ashley Lentz
Charles Hay
11:00 am
Lunenburg Building Department
Lunenburg Police Department
Lunenburg Fire Department
Lunenburg Conservation Commission
Lunenburg Board of Selectman
Lunenburg Water Department
Lunenburg Planning Board
Lunenburg DPW
School Department - Superintendent
School Department - Director of Facilities
Chair, School Building Committee
Warner Larson
Landscape Architect
Nitsch Engineering
Civil Engineer
Architectural Engineers
P/FP Engineer
TMP Engineers
Electrical Engineer
TMP Engineers
Electrical Engineer
Tappe Associates
Architect
Project Overview
A brief summary of project schedule and anticipated milestone submissions was
provided. In summary, early packages will be released in the spring with early site
activities starting in the summer and foundations and steel proceeding in the fall of
2014. Final construction documents will be bid in the fall. Aprox construction duration is
fall 2014 to late 2016 or early 2017.
Regulatory Requirements
Zoning Enforcement Officer confirmed that his understanding is that this educational
facility is exempt from conformance with the Zoning By-Law, and no variances are
required for non-conforming conditions. He noted that he would confirm with the
Town's legal counsel.
===PAGE 2===
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTURE
PLANNING
TAPPÉ ASSOCIATES, INC.
Regulatory working session minutes
3-5-14
Pg 2 of 5
Planning confirmed that Development Plan Review is required with the Planning Board,
but not a formal hearing or public notice, etc. An application form was provided at the
meeting, and submission requirements (SEC8.4.pdf) sent separately. Planning Board
neets every 2 weeks, and will expedite this project on their agenda when it i:
submitted. 7 copies of drawings are required with submission.
NOI with Con Com is anticipated due to the expectation that wetlands exist at the
drainage outfall. Agent suggested RDA for early site to clear the non-jurisdictional areas
of work. Agent will walk site, Con Com meets every two weeks.
Zoning Enforcement Officer indicated that zoning limits sigh heights, design team to
review.
Tappe Associates noted that the project will require a separate foundation permit as
that work will start prior to the complete set of contract drawings being ready to review
and permit.
It was noted that sewer and water permits will need to be pulled.
Project is being designed to meet MA. CHPS which meets or exceeds stretch code. Town
is adapting stretch code in July.
DPW noted concern about past flooding and neighbor concerns. It was note that site
will need a SWPP and NPEDS NOI.
Review of the Site Plan
The 18' wide fire lane around the building was discussed and it was confirmed that
concrete filled bollards with eye bolts (no chain) will be installed at gate locations
indicated along with "Authorized Vehicles Only" signage. If enforcement is ever a
problem, the Town can install chains at a later time.
Police stated there is a 600° backup for afternoon pickup at the Turkey Hill School, and
the effect of bringing this traffic through the site should be considered.
Given the queue of cars that will extend from the auto drop off loop, the driveway will
be widened from 24' to 26' within the short section between Passios parking lot and the
auto loop to eliminate a safety bottleneck. The 3 access points to the site and fire lane
around the building were understood as favorable to minimizing congestion and
providing multiple routes for emergency vehicles to get to the school building.
===PAGE 3===
TAPPÉ
ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTURE
PLANNINO
TAPPE ASSOCIATES, INC.
Regulatory working session minutes
3-5-14
Pg 3 of5
Snow storage was reviewed, and It was noted that areas of lawn adjacent to parking lots
would be the location for storage of snow.
Site lighting was discussed and it was noted that exterior lighting would be LED type.
There were no objections to lighting as discussed. There was a discussion about the
possibility of an added street light near the MA Ave entrance however it was noted that
there is an existing pole light already in place at that location that may be adequate.
Desire for speed tables in access drive were confirmed as desirable.
Utilities and Drainage
At existing transite pipes, slip lining with new piping is preferred vs. total replacement.
Would require new valves.
Water Department asked about anticipated flow for building, it was noted that this will
be established later in the design process.
Drainage to include quantity and quality controls and meet MassDEP requirements.
Exact measures to be determined in next design phase.
DPW noted that existing sanitary sewer should have adequate capacity to support the
new development.
Fire Protection, Building Configuration
Location of hydrants on site were discussed. Locations at utility area near loading dock
and front of the high school were seen as appropriate locations.
Police and Fire requested separate knox boxes mounted at entrances, one blue and one
red at each location.
Police Department would like all exterior doors to be numbered and receive signage.
Police Department recommended numbering every window in the building and marking
with stick on numbers at all locations.
Domestic water service and fire service to connect to exist site service piping near Oak
Ave. and run into the building at the Mech. Rm.
===PAGE 4===
TAPPE
ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTURE
PLANNING
TAPPÉ ASSOCIATES, INC.
Regulatory working session minutes
3-5-14
Pg 4 of 5
Fire department hose connection valves in egress stairs to be provided at floor landings
(vs. intermediate landings).
A post indicator valve on exterior fire protection service will not be required.
Gas service will connect to existing gas main on site in vicinity of Oak Ave entrance and
run into the building at the Mech. Rm. with the meter on the exterior wall of the Mech.
Rm.
Sprinkler system zoning of 4 zones (High School, Middle School, Auditorium and
Gymnasium) was presented. Attendees had no objections.
Fire protection system flow capability of minimum 750 gallons per minute (based on 2
standpipes presenting the maximum demand).
Electrical
Emergency generator is to be diesel, it was agreed that this is acceptable.
CCTV camera coverage was discussed. It was noted that the student parking lot should
have a camera mounted to light pole for supervision and recording purposes in that
area.
It was noted that a separate meeting would be held with public safety and the school
department regarding details of the security design for the school.
Fire Department Captain will verify with Chief the potential for a second exterior fire
alarm beaçon.
Type of fire alarm wiring to be reviewed; armored cable versus low energy. Architect
recommended option of low energy if it is a cost savings.
Do not include Faraday as a manufacturer for fire alarm system per facilities director.
Remote drill switch not required, integral with Fire Alarm Control Panel is acceptable.
Stoppers covers on manual pull stations are not required per facilities director, Fire
Department took no exceptions.
===PAGE 5===
TAPPÉ
ASSOGTATBS
AACHITECTURE
PLANNINO
TAPPE ASSOCIATES, ING.
Regulatory working session minutes
3-5-14
Pg 5 of5
Kitchen exhaust fan: possibly on standby power, TMP to verify load.
Lav's are hard wired and will be on standby power.
Additional security cameras in gymnasium and cafeteria will be provided.
TMP will review all camera locations and types to potentially reduce quantities.
Police Department has no proprietary manufacturer/systems.
Parking/Pedestrian lighting: No pole height restrictions, use pole heights similar to
Turkey Hill Middle School approximately 20'-25'.
Sports lighting for basketball and tennis courts not required.
New football field to be provided with lighting and sound system.
New pressbox will be provided with an accessible lift.
Existing parking lot lights opposite Passios School are powered from existing high school.
Conduit provisions to be provided for future power at gates for road access behind
building.
Pump house off of Oak Ave. to be demolished.
Existing sports lighting and concession stand fed from Oak Ave. Temporary feed to be
provided.
TMP to provide power for school signage located at Mass Ave entrance and Oak Ave
entrance. Possible third location by the main entrance of new high school to be
considered.
End of Notes
