===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Building Committee
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
102/12/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
6:30 PM
3/12/14 6:30 PM
x
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Cesar Dedios
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Christine DePalma
Jeffery Luxenberg
Ron Simoneau
Michael Kearns
Craig Gabri
Steve Ham
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
LMS Principal
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Senior Associate, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Discussion
Call to Order
Committee.
The meeting was called to order at 6:35 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson for the Lunenburg School Building
Project Commitments and Invoices
Joslin Lesser presented commitments/contract amendments for Tappe Associates for review and approval
• The amendments were for Site Survey, Hazardous Waste, and Geotechnical Services commencing from
the design development phase thraugh project closeout. The proposed amendment fees for these
services were consistent with the project's total budget and MSBA Form 3011. All three (3) amendments
were unanimously approved.
Joslin Lesser + Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress invoices for work completed for through
January 2014 for Joslin, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe Associates (Designer) and Shawmut Design and
Construction (Preconstruction services). All invoices were unanimously approved.
Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(ISBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC,
(LSBC,
(LSBC,
(LSBC)
(Tappe)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Design Development Update
Charlie Hay from Tappe Associates provided the LSBC with an update on the design development phase.
Mr. Hay mentioned that a series of design development workshops and meetings have been set up over
the next few weeks. These meetings will engage district faculty, staff, and administrators in the design
process for Technology, Building Systems, Site Layout, and a design review session will take place with
regulatory officials from the Town of Lunenburg-
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
: Upcoming Working Sessions/Meetings
Joslin Lesser reviewed the list of upcoming meetings as distributed in the meeting packet. Joslin Lesser
confirmed a call in number will be available for these meeting sessions for anyone who wishes to
participate from a remote lacation.
& Community Outreach Efforts
Joslin Lesser informed the ISBC that a brief meeting was scheduled by Mr. Mackin with a project abutter,
Mr. Nicholas Edmund of Oak Avenue.
The meeting was held just prior to the ISBC meeting. Mr. Mackin
briefed Mr. Edmunds on the project scope, time frame, and expectations. Mr. Edmunds requested to be
kept in touch with any landscaping plans and requested at least a six (6') foot fence be installed at the rear
of his property. Mr. Mackin confirmed this request would be discussed at the forthcoming Landscaping
meeting with Tappe and the project's landscape architect. Greg Cohan confirmed meeting minutes from
this meeting would also be distributed to Mr. Edmund via email.
Other Business
The LSBC was briefed on the letter recently received from the MSBA concerning the minor building design
modifications made to accommodate the Town/District's goals. The project team provided the MSBA with
a response to the letter on February 14, 2014.
Joslin Lesser confirmed to the LSSC members that meeting minutes from the August School
Committee/School Building Committee meeting in addition to minutes from the October and December
2013 public forums would be provided for record purposes as requested by the Town Clerk. The minutes
will be available for review and approval by the ISBC at its next meeting.
7.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:05 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Jaslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
