===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSLIM, LESSER - ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
xXx
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
12/10/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
6:30 PM
1/14/15 6:30 PM
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, ISBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Project Architect, Tappe Architects
Joslin, Lesser + Assoclates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Tos LEN
MESSIER
- Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Discussion
1 Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:36 PM by Mir. Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg
School Bullding Committee.
2
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following meetings:
• November 12, 2014 LSBC Meeting
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting minutes
from November 12, 2014.
Page 1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER * ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
3
Monthly Approvals - Invoices
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress invoices for work completed
through November, 2014 for Joslin, Lesser & Associates (OPM), Tappe Architects
(Designer), Shawmut Design & Construction (Preconstruction Services & Payment
Requisition No.4), UTS Testing Services, GAW Aerial Photography.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the November 2014
invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was unanimously
approved.
4 Monthly Approvals - Commitments
There were no monthly commitments presented for this time period.
Note: Final GMP tabulation work is in progress.
5 Final Construction Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) Discussion & Action
Joslin Lesser & Associated (ILA) presented an updated budget with Final GMP values per
trade. The Final GMP is under the MSBA estimated budget, LSBC reviewed and discussed
each line item. Overall, the Group was satisfied with the Final GMP results.
Additionally, JLA presented Owner Requested Items which were previously removed from
scope during value engineering efforts. These items include: Additional Protective Wood
Paneling in the Library, Sod Turf for Athletic Fields with recommended sand base material,
Outdoor Classroom & Photovoltaic Systems (PV), LSBC reviewed and discussed each line
item.
Note: PV System is under review by Business Manager and BOS.
Motion:
The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the following items:
1. Final GMP at $57,994,017.00.
2. The following Owner Requested Items were approved to be included in scope:
a. Additional Protective Wood Paneling in the Library
b. Sod Turf for Athletic Fields with recommended sand base material
c. Outdoor Classroom
The motion was unanimously approved.
The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted not to include Photovoltaic System in
GMP scope. This item and its procurement / addition to scope will be reviewed at a later
date.
Page 2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
JOSLIN, LESSER * ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
6
•Construction Activity Update s
Jonathan Hirst (SDC) presented an overview of a construction progress. JLA presented
progress photos which are also available on the School Building Project Website.
Progress Update
• Foundation work is on ongoing. Most of this work will take place during weeks of
December 12, 2014 and December 19,2014.
• Concrete sub contractor demobilization is scheduled to begin on December 15, 2015.
•Foundation and retaining wall on the North and South of the building is scheduled for
this week.
• Weather permitting, the work related to the underground electrical, transformer vault
and generator pad will take place during the week of December 19,2014.
• Underslab coordination will take place during the week of December 20, 2014.
• Site mobilization & preparation for steel delivery is complete. Steel delivery commenced
on December 8, 2014.
• Steel erection at Area A has commenced. Second floor decking installation will begin
during the week of December 28, 2014.
• Drainage and sewer work is ongoing.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the Shawmut
trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and waik the site. Rob Alger is available to set up
time for site visit.
7
Public Comment
Greg Roy brought to the Group's attention an abutter's concern about water and drainage
issues that potentially affect his/her property. This issue has been previously reviewed by
the construction and management teams. The issue is likely not caused by construction.
Further review will be conducted if the problem continues.
8
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 8:20 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 3 of 3
