===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenbure School Building Committee
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
06/11/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
7:00 PM
7/9/14 6:30 PM
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Dave Matthews
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Steve Hamm
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Pianning Board, ISBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Josiin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Discussion
Call to Order:
Building Committee.
The meeting was called to order at 7:08 PM by Mr. Micheal Mackin, Chairperson for the Lunenburg School
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg Schoal Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following meeting: May 14, 2014.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the minutes from the May 14,
2014. The motion was unanimously approved.
Monthly Approvals
Joslin Lesser + Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress involces for work completed for through May,
2014 for Joslin, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe Associates (Designer) and Shawmut Design &
Construction (Preconstruction services). Additionally, Tappe presented an invoice for the MASS CHPS
Registration fee. Invoices were presented for approval but not for payment. Until the MSBA Project
Funding agreement is signed, all invoices will be reviewed for content, work scope and hours but not
issued for payment.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the May 2014 invoices as
presented by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. The motion was unanimously approved.
*Update from June 04, 2014 MSBA Meeting
1915
LESS
Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LS8C)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SĐC)
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
Greg Cohan and Micheal Mackin briefed the LSBC on the June 4, 2014 MSBA Board Meeting. The ISBA
Board voted to approve the Project Budget and Scope for the new Lunenburg Middle/High School. One
Board Member present at the meeting expressed their dissatisfaction with being placed in position to
review a situation outside of the accepted process of approvals. Mike Mackin also briefed the Committee
members on his thoughts from the meeting. MSBA informed the Lunenburg District issuance of a revised
Project Scope and Budget would be forthcoming after receipt for the DESE any questions, comments or
concerns.
Update from Planning Board Review Meeting
Michael Mackin briefed the Committee on the recent meeting held with the Planning Board attended by
Tappe, Micheal Mackin and Loxi Calmes. Topics such as Storm water design, traffic design and Thomas
Passios schools were several of the topics discussed. Follow-up meeting to be scheduled.
Community Outreach Efforts
OPM and LSBC scheduled an Abutter's meeting for June 25th at 6:30 PM in the Thomas Passios School's
Cafeteria. OPM had already had in their possession the Abutter list provided by the Assessor's office.
OPM would be responsible to send out postcards to all Abutters, post meeting date/time on the School
Website and post meeting in the Lunenburg Ledger.
Other Business
Micheal Mackin introduced Tom Alonzo, Board of Selectman (BOS) Member as a new member of the
Lunenburg member of the School Building Committee taking the place of David Matthews, representing
the BOS.
School Building Committee briefly discussed scheduling a Ground Breaking Ceremony to held in the Fall
when the school reopens for the year. A committee will be selected to plan the event.
Greg Cohan briefed the LSBC on the 60% CD Estimate due June 24th from Tappe and Shawmut Design and
Construction. The 60% CD Estimate with associated supporting material is scheduled to be submitted to
the MSBA on June 30. Greg Cohan explained after review and reconciliation of both estimates, LSBC will
need to ratify the estimate and submission to the MSBA.
John Londa briefed the LSBC on the issue concerning they existing phone system between Thomas Passios
, High School and Brooks House. The phone lines will need to be relocated for the new Soccer field out in
front of the school to be started. John Londa received several quotes for new Head-In equipment if
needed. LSBC expressed their desire to keep the costs at the minimum and explore an alternate means
and method
Public comment
There was no public comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 8:45 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 2 of 2
