===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JO:LIN, LESSER †ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
10/08/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
6:30 PM
11/12/14 6:30 PM
x
x
x
x
2
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
• Jonathan Hirst
Discussion
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Diser opal, it on tin voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Project Architect, Tappé Architects
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:35 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following
meetings:
• September 10, 2014 LSBC Meeting
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting
minutes from September 10, 2014.
SLIN
LIE
IS LEB
Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(ILA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Page 1 of 5
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
3
Discussion
Monthly Approvals - Invoices
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress invoices for work
completed through September, 2014 for Joslin, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe
Architects (Designer), Shawmut Design & Construction (Preconstruction Services &
Payment Requisition No.2), UTS Testing Services, DM Berg Structural Peer Review
Services, Misc. Printing Services.
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) also presented previously submitted outstanding
miscellaneous printing & advertising invoices.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the September
2014 invoices as well as previously submitted outstanding invoices as presented by
Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was unanimously approved.
4
5
Monthly Approvals - Commitments
There were no monthly commitments presented for this time period.
Note: Final GMP tabulation work is in progress.
Status of Main Bid Package & Pre-Qualifications
A list of pre-qualified bidders has been finalized and published to Joslin Lesser &
Associates (JLA) website. Bid Documents have been issued on September 24, 2014 as
scheduled.
Three (3) Addendums are scheduled to be issued prior to the Bid due date. The
Addendums are intended to answer bidder clarification questions. Bidder questions are
to be sent to Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA). Upon receipt JLA to sort and forward the
questions to Tappe (TA) for appropriate distribution. The answers are to be
incorporated in the Addendums.
All Addendums are due to be available to bidders no later than October 24, 2014 at
2:00 PM. Bid Opening is scheduled for Tuesday, October 28, 2014 in Joslin Lesser &
Associates' office at 2:00 PM. It may take up to (4) four weeks to review & award the
bids.
Page 2 of 5
===PAGE 3===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
6
Discussion
Construction Activity Update
Michael Kearns (SDC) presented a construction progress update.
Damian Liddiard (TA)presented image boards with project renderings
Loxi Calmes (LPS) shared progress photographs of the construction site.
Progress Update
• Excavation & Re Grading the project site is in progress.
• Measures of Dust Control continue to take place on a regular basis.
• Top soil removal work to off-site storage for later re-use is in progress.
• Storm and sanitary piping installation is underway.
• Installation of drainage systems in the south field is underway.
• Delivery of materials is in progress.
• Rolling & compaction work which causes vibration will continue through Fall.
• Rebar work, anchor bolts and foundation work is underway.
• Gas line relocation work is scheduled to take place during Columbus Day weekend.
Once existing gas line is taken out of commission, the gas company will provide
Shawmut with a formal notification. Shawmut will then proceed with installation of
new utilities and pavement work.
• The steel work is currently in progress of detailing and fabrication. Steel delivery is
scheduled to commence at the end of December 2014.
• Waterproofing work will follow the completion of foundation wall installation.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the Shawmut
trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is available to set up
time for site visit.
7
Community Outreach Efforts
Next Neighborhood Meetings is scheduled for:
• November 6th at 6:30 PM
There are no significant complains or concerns from the Abutters to date. JLA will post
another vibratory work notice as it will continue through out Fall 2014.
Page 3 of 5
===PAGE 4===
JOSLIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
8
Discussion
Parking Lot at Thomas C. Passios Building
It was brought to the Group's attentions that the parking lot adjacent to Thomas C.
Passios Building may have to be combined with the property of Thomas C. Passios
Building. This will prohibit the use of the lot by the LMHS. This may result in the need
to locate 30 parking spaces within LMHS premises. In order to have design & budget
solution ready, LSBC asked Tappe to provide preliminary drawing markups with
direction that can be priced by Shawmut. Tappe will prepare a sketch that can be
reviewed at the next LSBC Meetings.
9
Other Business
Aerial Photo Service - JLA noted that David P. Gaw is in agreement to perform 50 fly-
overs for $450.00 per fly over. The Group agreed that Aerial Photography Service is
more suitable to this project than a Webcam service. The Group also agreed on the
benefits of this service to the efforts of community outreach as well as future
documentation. Concerns of unnecessary expenditures for such a services were
discussed. A Motion will take place at the next LSBC meeting to finalize this subject.
Ground Breaking Ceremony - JLA shared a draft version of the brochures for the event.
All details have been finalized and preparations are underway. The ceremony is
scheduled for October 18th at 1:15PM.
10
Public Comment
Chair of Green Building Communities inquired with LSBC if participating energy
companies have been engaged in conversations about energy efficiency efforts,
rebates and solar system implementation. Green Building Communities noted that they
would like to be involved as early as possible with an opportunity to participate in
future Green Communities meetings.
Note: Lunenburg Middle High School is designed per CHIPS standards which requires to
meet LEED equivalent energy efficiency levels. The Group noted that energy efficiency
efforts in design practices & implementation are underway. Additionally Green
Community meeting took place a few months back to review rebate opportunities.
Page 4 of 5
===PAGE 5===
JOSLIN, LESSER - ASSOCIATES, INC.
11
Discussion
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 7:58 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates, Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 5 of 5
