===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
08/13/14
Thomas C. Passios Bullding, Room 13
6:30 PM
9/10/146:30 PM
Discussion
1
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Nathan lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
GregS. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, ISBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chalr
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (noil-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Project Architect, Tappé Architects
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:37 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School
Building Committee.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following meetings:
• July 09, 2014 1SBC Meeting
• July 17, 2014 LSBC Meeting
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting minutes from July
19th & July 17th Meeting.
Monthly Approvals - Invoices.
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress involces for work completed for through
July, 2014 for Josiln, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe Architects (Designer), Shawmut Design &
Construction (Preconstruction Services) as well as miscellaneous printing involces.
Motion: The lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the July 2014 invoices as presented
by Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was unanimously approved.
TO ATLA
LEE SEL
Project Marsuemer:
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(I.SBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappe)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Page 1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
JOAN, 1AS0 AMORARS, ONC
Discussion
Monthly Approvals - Commitments
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presenteda list of monthly commitments to the Lunenburg School
Building Committee (LSBC). The Structural Peer Review has been awarded to D.M.Berg as the lowest
bidder. JLA provided a tabulation chart listing an estimate of services requestedused to determine the
lowest bidder.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the Structural Peer Review Award
as presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was unanimously approved.
Note: iGMP2 was not presented and will be presented at a following meeting for approval.
Construction Document Submission
The 90% Construction Document package will be submitted to the MSBA on Tuesday 08/18/14.
The 100% Construction Document package is scheduled to be issued on Monday 09/22/14.
Note: Appointed commissioning firm, CANON Design, informed Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) about a
delay in the issuance of the commissioning review due to unforeseen staffing changes. The review will
be issued under a separate cover to MSSA and the design team upon completions. To ensure that the
revlew comments are incorporated to 100% construction Documents, CANON Design will make efforts
to complete the commissioning revlew prior to the scheduled 100% construction Document issue date.
6 . . Project Traffic Study Discusslon
Changes to Vehicular Circulation were discussed by the Group, Shawmut Design & Construction Is
working on a traffic circulation map for the duration of the construction. This map will be finalized and
distributed to school members, parents & abutters. The goal is to identify delivery truck entrance as well
as student drop off / pick up circulations.
There is a concern about traffic & road logistics not just on premises of the school but also around the
school area, A preliminary traffic study was performed by Tappe Architects during the feasibility study
phase, However, the impact on abutting roads is hard to predict without an extensive study of the future
traffic volume. Such study is possible however it will be at a cost which will have to be taken out of the
owner's contingency budget. The School Building Committee agreed not to proceed with the study at
this time. This item will be noted for future consideration if the Group feels that such study is necessary.
In order to attend to the Abutters' traffic Impact concern, Design & Construction Team will take the
following measures:
• A landscape architect will be present at the next abutters/ neighborhood meeting to revlew and
discuss the details of the planned landscaping as well as sidewalk and crosswalk locations.
• Shawmut Design & Construction wlil be providing additional signage at the entrance to the site for
clarity.
Joslin Lesser & Associates announced that the kick off construction meeting was held on Wednesday,
08/13/14 at 10:00 AM. The meeting will be help on a weekly basis at the construction trailer on site
through the duration of the project. Meeting Notes as well as all supplemental information such as
Requests for Information (RFls), Architect Supplemental Information (ASls), Requests for Proposal (RFPs)
and Submittals will be available to all Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC) members via
Submittal Exchange. Shawmut Design & Construction will be setting up access to Submittal Exchange for
Page 2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
IN CAR AROMAS. ANC
10
11
12
Discussion
Main Bid Package Pre-Qualification Committee Member Selection
loslin Lesser and Associates (JLA) began the sub-trade prequalification process for the main bid. It i
expected to send invitation to bid on Friday 09/12/14, JLA asked for one representative from Lunenburs
School Building Committee (LSBC) to be involved in the pre-qualification process. Brain Frank was
appointed to represent the LSBC.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee (LS8C) voted in favor for Brain Frank to represent
LSBC during the pre-qualification process. The motion was unanimously approved.
Community Outreach Efforts
There are two (2) Abutters/Neighborhood Meetings scheduled for the fall of 2014.
• September 4th at 6:30 PM
• November 6th at 6:30 PM
Joslin Lesser & Associates (LA) will assisting Lunenburg Schools with social media and website updates.
JLA will be posting construction progress Meeting Notes and progress photos to the both, the Facebook
& Lunenburg School Building Project website.
Other Business
Josli Lesser & Associates (JLA) Is collecting cost information for the a web-cam service. The main intent
of this service would be to follow the construction progress. This service will not add security to the
construction site. Shawmut Design & Construction will be providing surveillance for security as a
separate measure. This Group will decide if such service Is needed upon the receipt of all cost
information.
Ground Breaking Ceremony is tentatively scheduled for Saturday 11/18/14, the same day as the
homecoming game. This is a good opportunity for students to be involved. Joslin Lesser & Associates
(JLA) will share a booklet example with the Group which was provided for another school project. Tappe
Architects will provide presentation image boards for display at the event.
Public Comment
No Pubile Comment
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 7:50 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 3 of 3
