===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JOSIIN, LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting
Date:
Location:
Time:
Next Meeting:
x
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Nathan Lockwood
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Speidel
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Damian Liddiard
Greg Cohan
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Discussion
11/12/14
Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
6:30 PM
12/10/146:30 PM
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Project Architect, Tappé Architects
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Joslin, Lesser + Associates
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:35 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following
meetings:
• October 08, 2014 LSBC Meeting
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting
minutes from October 08, 2014.
Moslin
- Project Management
Affiliation
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(JLA)
(SDC)
(SDC)
Page 1 of 4
===PAGE 2===
JOSLIN,
LESSER + ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
Monthly Approvals - Invoices
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress invoices for work
completed through October, 2014 for Joslin, Lesser & Associates (OPM), lappe
Architects (Designer), Shawmut Design & Construction (Preconstruction Services &
Payment Requisition No.3), UTS Testing Services, Misc. Printing Services.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the October 2014
invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates. The motion was unanimously
approved.
4 Monthly Approvals - Commitments
There were no monthly commitments presented for this time period.
Note: Final GMP tabulation work is in progress.
5
Main Bid Package Update & Final GMP Approval Schedule
Bid Opening took place on October 28, 2014 as scheduled. Overall the bid opening was
positive. Trade bids are on or under budget, non trade bids are in process of review by
the construction and design teams.
Main GMP is expected to be ready for review on December 3,2014 & presented to the
Committee during December 10,2014 meeting.
Following final GMP number, it may be possible to add some design items that were
previously value engineered in to the project. These items include, wood paneling in
selected areas for enhanced sound performance & photovoltaic panels for energy
saving. Tappe will create a comprehensive list of these items to be ready for review.
Page 2 of 4
===PAGE 3===
JOSLIN, LESSER * ASSOCIATES, INC.
Discussion
Construction Activity Update
Jonathan Hirst (SDC) presented an overview of a construction progress. JLA presented
progress photos which are also available on the School Building Project Website.
Progress Update
• Submittal process is ongoing
• Continue Excavation for Building footings/foundations.
• Continue with installation of building concrete footings.
• Continue with installation of foundation forms for foundation walls.
• Maintain in place measures for dust control.
• Sanitary Sewer and Drainage Structure work is 90% complete.
• Gravel base and pavement of parking lot areas is expected to be completed by end of
October 2014.
• Install irrigation system on Sports Fields.
• Top Soil application continuous. Install sod on Sports field is planned for next week
(weather permitting).
• Use of Vibratory equipment will continue.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the Shawmut
trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is available to set up
time for site visit.
7
8.
Formation of Work Authorization Committee
A. Work Authorization Sub-committee was formed in order to expedite a review and
approval of additional unforeseen conditions that require immediate repair and/or
installation. The appointed sub-committee members are: Michael Mackin, Brian Frank
& Colleen Shapiro.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve above mentioned
members as representatives of the Work Authorization Sub-committee.
Community Outreach Efforts
Neighborhood Meeting was held on November 6. The meeting was successful. There no
significant complains or concerns from the Abutters.
Next Neighborhood Meeting will be scheduled sometimes in February or March of
2015.
Page 3 of 4
===PAGE 4===
JOSLIN, LESSER * ASSOCIATES, INC.
9
Discussion
Parking Lot at Thomas C. Passios Building
The Group reviewed details of the proposal and sketches presented by Tappe in regards
to relocating thirty (30) parking spaces else where on school campus with intent to
leave parking adjacent to Thomas S. Passios Building as part of its property.
It was determined that the issue can not be solved until more information is available.
More research has to be done to determine clear rules for property line between
Middle/High School & Thomas S. Passios.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to place this subject on hold
until more information is available.
9
10
11
Other Business
Aerial Photo Service.- JLA asked the Committee for a vote on the approval of Aerial
Photography services for (6) Six Flyovers @ $450.00 each.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve above Aerial
Photography service by Gaw Aerial Photography.
Note: JLA will create and share a schedule with anticipated flyover time periods which
will be coordinated with major construction milestones.
Public Comment
No Public Comment
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 7:46 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 4 of 4
