===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
x
1
2
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Greg Bittner
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Lafleur
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Jen Littlefield
Damian Liddiard
Stuart Lesser
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Philip Conroy
David Eichenthal
Carl Luck
Phyllis M. Luck
Discussion
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Tappe Architects
Project Architect, Tappé Architects
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Uni Bank Financial Advisory
Resident
Board of Selectmen, Lunenburg
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:35 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Business
• Next meeting will be held on January 13, 2016 at 6:30pm
Page 1 of 8
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(BOS)
1
===PAGE 2===
4
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting
minutes from November 12, 2015. The motion was unanimously approved.
Monthly Invoices
Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5) presented monthly progress invoices for work completed
through November, 2015 for Joslin Lesser - NV5 (OPM), Tappe Architects (Designer),
Shawmut Design & Construction (Payment Requisition No.16), UTS Testing Services
(October 2015).
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the October,
2015 invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5). The motion was unanimously
approved.
SPACE WAS LEFT INTENTIAONALLY BLANK
Page 2 of 8
2
===PAGE 3===
as presented to the taxpayers in year 2013. The study also showed an estimated
projection of what can be spent in Contingency should the local share increase but not
exceed the total project budget.
JLA/NV5 provided a hard copy and a digital "life" excel work document in order to be
able to add or remove contingency items. A few discrepancies were fixed during review
in the projected excel work doc. Edited projection study is attached. Note that the
projection is an estimate as there are unknown factors, such as MSBA's review and
appointing of changes as reimbursable or not as well as unforeseen conditions to the
construction. The projection was made based on a worst case scenario where all
changes to work are assumed not to be reimbursable by the MSBA (this is not going to
be the case) as well as projected unforeseen change orders to be at 2% of the GMP
(likely to be considerably lower based on the current progress, about 70% completion
with change order value equal to less then 0.3%.
The Committee reviewed presented projection. There was no decision made as to what
local share option should the project follow. There was a concern about increasing
town share from what was presented in 2013, especially knowing that the project can
be built without having do so. However, conversations did take place around the
opportunity to improve or add a number of contingency items which can be of a long
term benefit to the school at a lower cost during this project construction. Each
contingency item was discussed. (details listed in the "Contingency Scope Adds"
sections of this document).
To address concerns of transparency and community outreach there will be a number
of televised and/or recorded meetings. It has been decided that January and February
2016 meetings will be televised or recorded for later broadcast. The Local Share of the
project and contingency expenditure related to scope adds beneficial to the school will
be further reviewed at those meetings.
Page 3 of 8
===PAGE 4===
The Following decisions and votes have been made:
Outdoor Study Area (Classroom): This space was included in the GMP as an allowance.
Final design came in at a higher cost. However the site contractor, Powell, is looking to
donate all construction except for electrical scope. Powell asked for naming rights. This
is being reviewed by the Town.
In the attempt to proceed with the schedule sequence and eliminate future cost of
remobilizing construction in the area, the Construction Team is looking for
Authorization to proceed with the Electrical work associated with this work.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted on Authorization to proceed
with the electrical installations as presented by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5). The motion
was unanimously approved.
Relocation of Existing Murals & a Digital Mural Reproduction: This work was reviewed.
Except one mural, all existing murals in the high school building which will be
demolished, can not be relocated. The murals have a historical and sentimental value
to the alumni and community. This proposal is to digitally reproduce murals to a
wallcovering for application in the new building. One mural is proposed to be relocated
because it is safe to do so.
Shawmut is in process of pricing this item. This item was decided to review at the
following meeting in January, 2016.
Maintenance Garage: Existing maintenance garage used by the school is to be
demolished as part of new site plan. The school will require a new garage to store
maintenance and snow removal equipment. Construction of new maintanace building
was concidered at design stage of the school project, however it was value engineered.
It was questioned whether this is a necessity or discretionary add. This is space is vital
for storage as there is no other place to store snow removal, landscaping and
maintenance items.
Shawmut is in process of pricing this item. This item was decided to review at the
following meeting in January, 2016.
Page 4 of 8
4
===PAGE 5===
items.
In order to stay with the sequence of construction schedule and avoid cost associated
with redesign and remobilization, Construction Team is looking for Authorization to
Proceed on the Electrical and Millwork scope of work only.
Concerns were voiced about high cost for the software and monitor for this design.
These will be reviewed at a later date, when other, potentially less costly options are
investigated by both, Committee members and the Design Team.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted for Authorization to Proceed
with Millwork and Electrical Scope of work as presented by Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5).
Greg Bittner opposed to proceeding with the millwork portion of this item.
Site Digital Sign: This items and its need for the school were discussed by the
Committee. It is beneficial to have a place to display announcements, game times,
whether alerts etc. The cost for the sign was a concern, it was noted that color sign is
probably not what the Town is looking for. A simpler monochrome sign would be a
better options.
In order to stay with the sequence of construction schedule and avoid cost associated
with redesign and remobilization, the Construction Team is looking for Authorization to
Proceed on the Electrical scope of work only.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted for Authorization to Proceed
Electrical Scope of work as presented by Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5). The motion was
unanimously approved.
Page 5 of 8
===PAGE 6===
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted for Authorization to Proceed
on design work for added cooling in order to understand actual cost for this system.
The motion was unanimously approved.
Change sod to artificial turf at the new athletic field & replace artificial turf at the
existing field: A discussion was held on pros & cons of artificial turf vs. sod fields. Final
decision was not made. Artificial turf is less immediate maintenance, however it has to
be replace every fifteen to twenty years which adds a significant lump sum cost. Turf
does allow for games to take place during rainy seasons. While sod rarely needs to be
replaced but has to be maintained on a regular basis.
Existing turf field is due for replacement, however it is likely not part of the scope voted
for this construction project therefore its replacement will have to be presented and
voted on separately by the Town.
These items will be further reviewed at upcoming meetings.
Demolition of Thomas C Passios and Passios Parking Lot Reconfiguration: A discussion
was held to review these items. Demolition of Passios building will be reviewed further
with the Reuse Committee and presented to the Town.
These items will be further reviewed at upcoming meetings.
Install Flashing Signal Lights for School Zone at adjacent streets due to increased
student volume and traffic: A discussion was held to review the need to address
community concerns about increasing concentrated pedestrian traffic volume and
warning of the drivers to slow down. This items is important to address because safety
of students is at stake.
The Chairman requested that the Town Manager have bond Counsel review all
potential scope items to ensure the items are within the authority of the Warrant
passed by voters. Town Manager will report by the next meeting.
All above mentioned items will be further reviewed at upcoming meetings.
Page 6 of 8
===PAGE 7===
7B
7C
the testing done according to specifications and for the benefit of the owner for
optimal quality assurance.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve a BRR of $25,000
for Testing Services as presented by Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5). The motion was
unanimously approved.
Monthly Approvals - Change Order No.6
Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5), Tappe Architects and Shawmut Design & Construction
presented Change Order #6 Package as well as a log with pending potential change
orders. Description of items included in Change Order No. 6 is attached. All items have
been previously incorporated in the PCI log which was distributed to the Committee.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order #6
as presented by Shawmut, Tappe Architects and Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5). The motion
was unanimously approved.
Monthly Approvals - Art Room Modifications
Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5), Tappe Architects and Shawmut Design & Construction
presented CR-68C, a change request which for modifications of the Art Room storage
and Kiln. These modifications originated from a faculty walkthrough during FF&E
(Fixture, Furniture & Equipment Review). The modifications work best for the faculty
and for functionality of the art programs.
If approved this change will be included in the next change order, however, the
Construction Team was looking for Authorization to Proceed with the work in order to
stay consistent with the schedule and sequencing of construction.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to grant Authorization to
Proceed with this work pending final approval of total cost which will be included in the
next Change Order Package in January, 2016. The motion was unanimously approved.
Page 7 of 8
7
===PAGE 8===
9
Public Comment
It was noted that it is a benefit to Community to spend as less contingency funds as
possible for the new building to be built to specifications. Tax increase no matter how
small is not favorable to the Community of limited funds.
A concern was voiced about transparency of the school construction. The paper
updated and website updates did not note contingency scope adds discussed in this
meeting, which was concerning. It was noted that the website was missing information,
however this has happened due to temporary technical difficulties which are at present
being dealt with. The website will be operational shortly. It was asked to increase
communication with the stakeholders by televising, reporting and recording of
meetings.
10
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 9:40 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5). Please notify Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5) within 48
hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 8 of 8
