===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1
2
Name
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Greg Bittner
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Lafleur
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Jen Littlefield
Stuart Lesser
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Rob Juusola
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Philip Conroy
Discussion
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Tappe Architects
NV5
NV5
NV5
NV5
NV5
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:34 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Business
• Next meeting will be held on May 11, 2016 at 6:30pm at Thomas C. Passios
Page 1 of 4
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(NV5)
(NV5)
9
===PAGE 2===
4
5
6
Chair's Report
No chair's report this meeting
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following
meetings:
• March 23, 2016 LSBC Meeting
Motion: There was a comment on public comment section of the meeting minutes. NV5
will amend and resubmit the meeting minutes from March 23, 2016. Lunenburg School
Building Committee voted to approve the meeting minutes from March 23, 2016 upon
submission of amended content.
Monthly Invoices
NV5 (NV5) presented monthly progress invoices for work completed through March,
2016 for NV5 (OPM), Tappe Architects (Designer), Shawmut Design & Construction
(Payment Requisition No.20) and Service Invoice from Blanchard Piano Service Invoice.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the March, 2016
invoices as presented by NV5 (NV5). The motion was unanimously approved.
Page 2 of 4
10
===PAGE 3===
double sided monochrome LED digital sign, located at the Mass. Ave entrance driveway.
The sign is supported on steel channels between two 12"x12" granite pots. Costs include
misc. metals, granite, electrical / data work, LED sign, software and training.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order No.
10 as presented by Shawmut and NV5. The motion was approved with (1) one opposing
vote.
Change Order No.11:
Furnish and Install New Maintenance Garage (Add $56,415.00)
CR062 New Maintenance Garage. This Change Order is for the provision of a new 30'x40'
metal maintenance building on the north side of the Turkey Hill School to house the
equipment being displaced when the demolition of the existing maintenance shed occurs
in Phase2 of the LMHS project. Cost includes demolition of the portable classroom
building currently on the new site, the metal building, full concrete foundations and slab,
and electrical work.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order No.
11 as presented by Shawmut and NV5. The motion was unanimously approved.
Change Order No.12:
Provide Added Cooling to Classroom Wings (Add $528,815.00)
CR060 (RFP-023) This Change Order is for the provision of additional cooling for the
perimeter classrooms in the A and D-wings of the building. Cost includes mechanical
equipment and associated electrical connection misc. metals support on the roof roofing
work CT ceiling removals and reinstallation cleaning and CM supervision.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order No.
12 as presented by Shawmut and NV5. The motion was approved with (1) one opposing
vote.
Page 3 of 4
11
===PAGE 4===
9
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order
No. 13 provided that the description on the all change order documentation will be
changed to say "Stadium Wheelchair Lift Enclosure" in lieu of "Wheelchair Lift Enclosure
at Football field". The team will make that change for final signatures. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Construction Activity Update
A construction update image slideshow was presented at the meeting.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the
Shawmut trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is
available to set up time for site visit.
10
11
Public Comment
No Public Comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 6:55 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by NV5 (NV5). Please notify NV5 within 48 hours of receipt of this
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 4 of 4
12
