===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1
2
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Greg Bitter
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Lafleur
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Pete McCauliff
Charles Hay
Jen Littlefield
Stuart Lesser
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Philip Conroy
David Rodgers
Carl Luck
Jamie Toale
Paula Bertram
Discussion
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Tappe Architects
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Citizen
Citizen
Citizen
Citizen
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:35 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Business
• Next meeting will be held on February 10, 2015 at 6:30pm at the Town Hall
Page 1 of 8
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LPS)
(Tappé)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(CIT)
(CIT)
(CIT)
(CIT)
===PAGE 2===
4
5
Chairs Report
Mr. Mackin, Chairman of the Lunenburg School Building Committee provided a brief
project status overview. The project is approximately 73% complete. It has been
ongoing for roughly (2) Two years and (8) Eight months. It is on time and on budget.
Chairman declared that during the duration of this project the Committee closely
considered its expenditures and budget management. Despite contingency usage
proposals for certain items, there was no intention of expending the project's
contingency fund in its entirety.
Note: This section will be added to the monthly meeting Agenda for future notification
and status updates from the Chairman of the LSB Committee.
Monthly Invoices
Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5) presented monthly progress invoices for work completed
through December, 2015 for Joslin Lesser - NV5 (OPM), Tappe Architects (Designer),
Shawmut Design & Construction (Payment Requisition No.17).
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the December,
2015 invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5). The motion was unanimously
approved.
Page 2 of 8
===PAGE 3===
(Add $2,455.00)
2. CR068A (RFP-016-REV.1) Base Contract Revisions From FF&E Meetings - Misc.
Changes (Excludes Art Storage and T&M Authorized Work),
(Add $14, 668.00)
3. CR068C (RFP-016-REV.1) Base Contract Revisions From FF&E Meetings - Art Storage
Room (Add 11,773.00)
Note: Authorization to proceed with this work was voted on 12.9.15
4. CR070 (RFP-018) Added Dishwashers in A106 & D144,
(Add $2,744.00)
All items presented were previously listed in a Potential Change Order Log which is
distributed during Committee meeting. Additionally a draft of this package was issued
via email to all Committee Members for review and comment.
Mr. Erickson inquired if individual items listed in this change order package can be
reviewed and/or presented individually.
The Construction and Design Team clarified that each item could be its own change
order, however, it is a standard industry practice to combine as many Change Requests
(items as listed above) in one package as possible. This helps to streamline review
process. Should there be an item in the package that the Building Committee does not
approve it can be removed from the package.
A draft pacake is distributed about one week ahead of the meeting. Any items that
require further clarification or review can be removed from the final package until
clarification is obtained.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order
No. 7 as presented. The motion was unanimously approved.
Page 3 of 8
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Mackin, Chairman of the School Building Committee, shared a decision letter from
Bond Counsel stating that the following scope adds are considered to be outside of
project scope, therefore to be removed from the list:
1. Flashing School Zone Lights
2. Replacement of Turf surface at the existing field.
3. Demolition of Thomas C. Passios Building.
Outdoor Study Area (Classroom): This space was included in the GMP as an allowance.
Final design came in at a higher cost. However the site contractor, Powell, is looking to
donate all construction except for electrical scope. Powell asked for naming rights. This
is being reviewed by the Town. Once review is available update will be provided for this
Committee. It is an overall net credit for the work if the scope is donated.
Relocation of Existing Murals & a Digital Mural Reproduction: This work was reviewed.
Except one mural, all existing murals in the high school building which will be
demolished, can not be relocated. The murals have a historical and sentimental value
to the alumni and community. This proposal is to digitally reproduce murals to a
wallcovering for application in the new building. One mural is proposed to be relocated
because it is safe to do so.
One mural was to be relocated because it has a sentimental value to the community.
This mural also does not require costly abatement process due to original adhesion
method. Both original and reproduction images will be located in collaborative spaces
of the new building.
Shawmut is in process of pricing this item.
Page 4 of 8
===PAGE 5===
This building exists today but will be demolished during Phase 2 construction.
Construction of new building was Value Engineered during VE process. Question came
up about records of Value Engineered items. The Construction and Design Team will go
back in look for records of value engineered scope.
Cost presented for this item is an estimate. Shawmut is in process of pricing this item.
Touch Screen Monitor for Athletic Archives: A discussion took place to understand the
need for such a space in the building. It was discussed whether this item is a luxury or a
benefit to the community. A monitor built in with in millwork with a specific software
would allow alumni to search for all Athletic records, photos and images of trophies not
displayed at the display area, a sentimental benefit which could help fund raising effort
in the future. New building simply does not have enough space to accommodate all the
physical display memory items for the Athletics program. A sub committee was formed
to review and make proposals for future location for the athletic achievement history
items.
Concerns were voiced about high cost for the software and monitor for this design.
These will be reviewed at a later date, when other, potentially less costly options are
investigated by both, Committee members and the Design Team.
Site Digital Sign: This items and its need for the school were discussed by the
Committee. It is beneficial to have a place to display announcements, game times,
whether alerts etc. The cost for the sign was a concern, it was noted that color sign is
probably not what the Town is looking for. A simpler monochrome sign would be a
better options.
Although arguable, it was noted that the sign could be a helpful tool of communication
in town. It is a good tool to have to display event dates and accomplishments for the
Town / School.
Page 5 of 8
===PAGE 6===
8
of $5,000-$10,000.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted for approve design work for
added cooling as presented by Tappe Architects. The motion was unanimously
approved.
Change sod to artificial turf at the new athletic field: A discussion was held on pros &
cons of artificial turf vs. sod fields. Final decision was not made. Artificial turf is less
immediate maintenance, however it has to be replace every fifteen to twenty years
which adds a significant lump sum cost. Turf does allow for games to take place during
rainy seasons. While sod rarely needs to be replaced but has to be maintained on a
regular basis.
Lunenburg's School Athletic Director, Pete McCauliff, presented a summary of
Lunenburg Athletic Program at present, the use of athletic fields and how this will be
changing with new building and new programs in place. The presentation concentrated
on a benefit for turf field as it will give the school an ability to have games more
efficiently without down time that is required for rainy season for the sod fields.
A question came up about short & long term operational cost analysis. The design and
construction team will help the School to research and present further information
about this subject.
This item will be further reviewed at upcoming meetings.
Construction Activity Update
A construction update image slideshow was presented at the meeting.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the Shawmut
trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is available to set up
time for site visit.
Page 6 of 8
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Luck asked about Documents that list all the Value Engineered items. The VE
process was held in a series of meetings and reviews. The design and construction
team will go back and see what documentation is available.
David Rodgers - Citizen
Mr. Rodgers voiced concerns that some documents like meeting minutes were not
accessible to the public on the website. it was a technical issue which was brought to
the Team's attention and was fixed. Greg Bittner noted that frequently asked questions
section on the website should be updated as it is out of date.
Mr. Rodgers asked the School Building Committee how Board of Selectmen will be
involved in the process of Contingency Expenditures. All items will presented to Board
of Selectmen and all comments will be considered. Once all information is collected
and shared, the School Building Committee will vote on proceed or not proceed on the
Contingency Items.
Lights: Have the project provided lighting for the sports fields? The Answer was, yes
the project provided for lights for the fields.
Sign: There is an emergency system in place in Lunenburg. Therefore the sign may be
useful but not necessary to communicate emergency related alerts.
Cooling: Currently design and built air cooling system complies with all regulations and
requirements. The expended system is good to have but required by code or
regulations.
Mr. Rodgers noted that just because there are funds available, it does not mean that
those funds are to be spent.
Page 7 of 8
===PAGE 8===
the Air Cooling. It would be good to understand how the added Air Cooling will be
managed and if it will add cost to the energy bill for the school. Who will be in charge of
turning on and off and when it will be operational. These details will be looked at by
the Committee and presented once information is available.
10
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 8:45 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5). Please notify Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5) within 48
hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 8 of 8
