===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1
2
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Greg Bittner
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Lafleur
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Pete McCauliff
Charles Hay
Jen Littlefield
Stuart Lesser
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Philip Conroy
David Rodgers
Carl Luck
Jamie Toale
Paula Bertram
Discussion
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Tappe Architects
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Joslin, Lesser / NV5
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Citizen
Citizen
Citizen
Citizen
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:35 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Business
• Next meeting will be held on March 23, 2016 at 6:30pm at Thomas C. Passios
Page 1 of 6
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LPS)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(JLA-NV5)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(CIT)
(CIT)
(CIT)
(CIT)
===PAGE 2===
5
David Larson from Warner Larson Landscape Architects (landscape design consultant
for Tappe Architects) presented an overview and a cost to benefit analysis of Turf vs
Sod field cost & construction. The attachments Mr. Larson provided during
presentation as well as additional information provided upon request is attached.
Community members provided additional comments and facts related to the
construction, cost and maintenance of sod and turf fields.
There is a general concern about un necessary expenditure for the Turf field which will
cause less maintenance in the short term, however capital will need to be allocated for
the turf field replacement within 15-20 years. A contrary concern was also voiced about
high volume use of the fields as sports programs in Lunenburg are growing. A sod field
can not be used during and right after rain or snow, thus limiting the amount of games
and practices that cab scheduled for the fields. There is an ongoing maintenance that is
required for the sod fields which has to be budgeted for by the school district.
No action was taken on this item. All information was provided for consideration and
review. All public comments were concerned by the Committee and school district in
order to prepare a recommendation and vote on this item during future meetings.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following
meetings:
• January 13, 2016 LSBC Meeting
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting
minutes from January 13, 2016. The motion was unanimously approved.
Page 2 of 6
===PAGE 3===
7
approved.
Monthly Approvals & Commitments
** Change Order No.8 & List of Potential Changes:
Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5), Shawmut Design & Construction (SDC) and Tappe Architects
(TA) presented Change Order No.8. This change order package included the following
items:
1. CR031 (RFP-005) Added Touch Screen for Athletic Archived (Electrical and Millwork
scope only which was voted on and approved for construction during January 2016
meeting. (Add $5,385.00)
2. CR072 (RFP-021) Revise door hardware, doors B127A and B127B
(Add $8,812.00). Result of field coordination.
3. CR073 (ASI-031) Integration of walk in fridge and freezers in to the BAS systems. A
result of additional requirements for school's insurance policies and field coordination.
(Add $2,802.00)
All items presented were previously listed in a Potential Change Order Log which is
distributed during Committee meeting. Additionally a draft of this package was issued
via email to all Committee Members for review and comment.
It has been inquired, if individual items listed in this change order package can be
reviewed and/or presented individually.
The Construction and Design Team clarified that each item could be its own change
order, however, it is a standard industry practice to combine as many Change Requests
(items as listed above) in one package as possible. This helps to streamline review
process. Should there be an item in the package that the Building Committee does not
approve it can be removed from the package.
A draft package is distributed about one week ahead of the meeting. Any items that
require further clarification or review can be removed from the final package until
clarification is obtained.
Mr. Bittner voted against added millwork for athletic archives thus did not support
CR31 in this change order no.8.
Page 3 of 6
===PAGE 4===
8
** It was mutually agreed upon by the Committee to revise the 02/10/2016 minutes
to include this correction, and these minutes will be put forth for approved at the
next meeting.
Amendment 10:
Joslin Lesser (JLA-NV5) presented Amendment No.10 for additional service for Tappe
Architects to provide design for the additional cooling system as described in the
Contingency Adds. This work was previously approved and voted on by the Committee
as a not to exceed amount. Final cost for the work is $6,600. Previously approved
amount was not to exceed $10,000.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Amendment 10
to Tappe Architected for additional services as presented by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5).
The motion was unanimously approved.
Contingency Scope Adds
Further conversation and review of Contingency Scope Adds took place during this
meeting. The goal of review was to further share all information with the Community
and present benefits as well as disadvantages for these items. The Committee was
asked to vote on the relocation of existing Murals as this work was time sensitive.
Some additional items were discussed but no vote was required. As the project moves
forward and final information on the items is available, votes will be required on
whether to proceed or forgo scopes adds listed below.
Outdoor Study Area (Classroom): No new discussions took place at this meeting. The
possibility of donation is still under review. A donation for Construction Services by RA
Powell was approved. All work except electrical (previously voted on and approved for
construction for not to exceed amount) will be provided by contractor RA Powell. RA
Powell will have an opportunity to choose wording for the time capsule cover located
at the outdoor classroom area.
Page 4 of 6
===PAGE 5===
Due to the time sensetive aspect or this work the committee was asked to vote on this
item. Community concerns were voiced as this seen as a "nice to have" item and not a
necessity. A discussion took place. Some community members would like to see the
mural reproduced as these are historic and sentimental images that will be demolished
with the high school.
It was proposed to vote on relocating the Whelan Park Mural as well as making digital
images of all other Murals as discussed. However to not reproduce the images on wall
covering. The school will keep the image files and will research alternate options to
display them.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve relocation of one
mural and digital imaging of all others without reproduction on wall covering as
proposed. The motion was unanimously approved.
Maintenance Garage: No new information was presented at this meeting. Shawmut
Construction is working on final pricing for this work.
The request from Mr. Luck to provide record information on Value Engineering process
of this item is being processed. This information will be provided prior to March
meeting.
Touch Screen Monitor for Athletic Archives: No new information was provided.
Electrical and millwork work are in progress. The school will be looking to alternated
options for the display of archives and alternate financing means should these means
be available in the future.
Site Digital Sign: No new information was provided at this meeting. This item will be
discussed at the March 2016 meeting.
Added Cooling to the Building: _ No new information was provided at this meeting.
Tappe is working on system design. This item will be discussed in more detail at the
March 2016 meeting.
If approved, the system will provide additional cooling not air conditioning. Mr. Luck's
request for record Value Engineering documents is being processed. All information will
be provided prior to March 2016 meeting.
Change sod to artificial turf at the new athletic field: See item section No.4 in this
document for discussion about this item.
Page 5 of 6
===PAGE 6===
10
Public Comment
Community concerns were voiced about spending of contingency funds for what is
seen as "nice to have" items. Additionally, concerns were voiced for discretionary
contingency items that are costly such as turf field. It was proposed for town residents
to have the opportunity to vote on these items. School Building Committee members
were urged to conceder community financial challenges and not to exceed the
previously voted on local share in order to not increase local tax payments.
11
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 9:45 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5). Please notify Joslin, Lesser (JLA-NV5) within 48
hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 6 of 6
