===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
x
1
2
Loxi Jo Calmes
Michael Mackin
Colleen Shapiro
Tom Alonzo
Greg Bittner
Mark Erickson
Mike Barney
Brian Frank
Greg S. Roy
Kerry Lafleur
John Londa
Brian Spadafino
Tim Santry
Charles Hay
Jen Littlefield
Stuart Lesser
Jeffery Luxenberg
Inga Knox
Robert Alger
Rob Juusola
Michael Kearns
Jonathan Hirst
Philip Conroy
Discussion
Call to Order
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Lunenburg Public Schools
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects
Tappe Architects
NV5
NV5
NV5
NV5
NVS
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
The meeting was called to order at 6:34 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Business
• Next meeting will be held on April 13, 2016 at 6:30pm at Thomas C. Passios
Page 1 of 5
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(LSBC)
(Tappé)
(Tappé)
(NVS)
(NV5)
(NVS)
(NV5)
(NV5)
(SDC)
(SDC)
(SDC)
===PAGE 2===
4
5
the building is build to serve the Lunenburg community for 30+ years, supported of
added cooling raised issues such as future environmental concerns (warmer
temperatures), longer school year and productivity concerns during hot days. From
financial stand point a cooling system is less likely to be added at a later time as funds
will not be available. Therefore preforming this work at present through the project
using project funds available for such work was supported by several who attended.
**In addition to comments in support to discresionary expendiatures such as added
cooling, several citizens spoke to oppose the expenditures associated with
contingency spending other than unforeseen conditions. Concerns were voiced for
overall struggle to fund many of town's requirements/programs hence making any
extra expenditures on "nice to have" items was not viewed as a good practice.
** It was mutually agreed upon by the Committee to revise the 02/10/2016 minutes
to include this correction, and these minutes will be put forth for approved at the
next meeting.
Chair's Report
Mr. Mackin, Chairman of the Lunenburg School Building Committee provided a brief
project status overview. The project is on time and on budget with minimal unforeseen
construction changes as the building is nearing completions at 82% completion.
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following
meetings:
• February 10, 2016 LSBC Meeting
Motion: Mr. Bittner commented on content revision change order no.8 vote. NV5 will
amend and resubmit the meeting minutes from February 10, 2016. Lunenburg School
Building Committee voted to approve the meeting minutes from February 10, 2016
upon submission of amended content.
Page 2 of 5
===PAGE 3===
8
donated by Powell. This work was previously authorized to proceed on by the LSBC as a
not to exceed amount of $10,000. (Add $7,127.00)
All items presented were previously listed in a Potential Change Order Log which is
distributed during Committee meeting.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve Change Order
No.9 as presented. The motion was unanimously approved.
Contingency For Action
Further conversation and review of Contingency Scope Adds took place during this
meeting with action required for all items discussed.
Change sod to artificial turf at the new athletic fields:
A memo was presented and issued prior to the meeting from Lunenburg Public Schools
recommending to forgo this item after a careful review of all, long and short term, facts
presented in previous meetings. This item will be closed. New fields will be
construction as originally designed and priced. All new fields will be sod (natural grass
fields).
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve to remove the
above mentioned contingency item from the list. The motion was unanimously
approved.
Reconfiguration of parking lot to add more sparking spaces.
A memo was presented and issued prior to the meeting from Lunenburg Public Schools
recommending to forgo this item after a careful review of all facts.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve to remove the
above mentioned contingency item from the list. The motion was unanimously
approved.
Page 3 of 5
===PAGE 4===
There were concerns about high cost for a storage unit for utilities. A discussion
involved details about the structure. The structure is more advanced than what is seen
as a storage unit, therefore cost to build it is higher. It will service a substantial benefit
to the school's maintenance staff as current storage building will be demolished.
Additional concerns were regarding high concrete cost allowance. Shawmut will review
the cost further with efforts to bring concrete value down.
The request from Mr. Luck to provide record information on Value Engineering process
was complete. All available documents were forwarded to Mr. Luck to his use.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve a construction of
maintenance garage at a not to exceed amount as presented. Shawmut will proceed
with this work and include this item in a Change Order package during April meeting.
The motion was approved with 1 opposing vote and 6 supporting votes.
Site Digital Sign:
Cost for this item was presented to the Committee. A discussion followed necessity of
this item. It was noted the sign will service a benefit to the school and the community.
It was mentioned that there could be a way to finance the expenses related to
maintaining the sign by offering advertisement opportunities. This could be brought up
to the School Committee for review as such opportunities have been historically
reviewed on a case by case basis.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve a construction of
Digital Sign at a not to exceed amount as presented. Shawmut will proceed with this
work and include this item in a Change Order package during April meeting. The motion
was approved with 2 opposing votes and 5 supporting votes.
Page 4 of 5
===PAGE 5===
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve a construction of
Digital Sign at a not to exceed amount as presented. Shawmut will proceed with this
work and include this item in a Change Order package during April meeting. The motion
was approved with 2 opposing votes and 5 supporting votes.
9
Construction Activity Update
A construction update image slideshow was presented at the meeting.
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the Shawmut
trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is available to set up
time for site visit.
10
11
Public Comment
No Public Comment.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 8:05 pm.
These meeting minutes were prepared by NV5 (NV5). Please notify NV5 within 48 hours of receipt of this document
regarding any required corrections or clarifications.
Page 5 of 5
===PAGE 6===

