===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Wendy Bertrand, Vice Chair-Present
Dawn-Marie Ayles, Secretary-Absent
Meredith Weiss-Present
Jim La Veck-Present
Business Manager/ HR Director
Michael Cassidy-Absent
Recording Secretary
Christine Hladky-Absent
Student Representative
Alizah Raboin-Present
Guests
Brendan Tobin, President Class 2017, Sue Cavaoli
1. Call to Order-Heather Sroka called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
2. Public Comment-No Public Comment.
3. Chair's Report -Ms. Sroka welcomed everyone back and a Happy New Year.
4. Review and Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers- Warrants were on the table for signature. No line
items present.
5. Superintendent's Report-Superintendent Calmes introduced Mr. Londa to discuss building operations.
Mr. Londa discussed the challenges of the buildings due to the recent weather. No major issues.
Lunenburg Primary School is doing well with the heating systems. Some impact on the fire alarm
systems with various smoke detectors. Occurred before with temperatures and has been resolved. No
issues in Turkey Hill Elementary School. The Lunenburg Middle/High School heating plan set
points required adjustments on the boiler water to sustain heat. Helped classrooms increase
temperature. VAV boxes in interior parts of the building. Some have not been functioning. Control
Company will adjust. Expected problems with extreme temperatures. Superintendent Calmes
inquired about Building B in the Arts area. Mr. Londa stated the area has VAV boxes and are not
providing enough air flow. Currently being evaluated. Certain larger areas take longer to heat.
Occupied set point is 70 degrees with a 2-degree range. Unoccupied status is typically 60 degrees.
Continue to monitor the heating systems. Control Technology provided install. Will be evaluating
the heating programming systems. Superintendent Calmes thanked Mr. Londa and the personnel
continuing to work on the building temperatures. Acknowledged the bus company's efforts to
6. Student Representative Report-Ms. Raboin discussed the continuation of Class Plays and Winter Sports.
Student Council has been brainstorming projects. Make-a-Wish Foundation to possibly sponsor a
child through raising money. Will report ongoing progress.
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100~ fax 978 582-4103
===PAGE 2===
banner variations in the future. Ms. Bertrand discussed having the Class of 2017 discuss the costs
and sustainability with future graduating classes. Ms. Bertrand discussed evaluating the hours
required to install the banners and if additional funds will be required.
b. School Committee Representative Appointment to NEASC Accreditation Sub-Committee-
Superintendent Calmes discussed choosing a representative. Ms. Sroka offered to take the
position. Ms. Bertrand made a motion to approve Heather Sroka as the School Committee
Representative to NEASC Accreditation Sub-Committee. Mr. LaVeck seconded. Vote:
Unanimous
8.
• Old Business
Action
a. FY19 Revised Capital Plan-Mr. Londa discussed the capital plan. $35,000 was initially requested
to update the Lunenburg Primary Schools phone system through Signet. Reduce the amount to
$29,500. Superintendent Calmes discussed the total requested will bring the amount down to
$159, 500. Ms. Sroka entertained a motion to accept the changes. Mr. LaVeck moved the motion
to accept the Capital Plan change to upgrade the new phone system and change the dollar amount
to a total of $29,500 for Fiscal Year 2019 to $159,500. Ms. Weiss seconded the motion. Vote:
Unanimous
Discussion
c. 2018-2019 School Calendar-Superintendent Calmes discussed updates of the 2018/2019 School
Calendar. Highlight some dates and structure. Posted at the website. 2018/2019. August 27'h
return of staff. First day of school August 28th-30th. Students will be off Labor Day August 31%.
September 3rd. First full Professional Development day is September 27th. September 6'-
Middle School open house. Sept 11"- Primary open house. Turkey Hill Elementary Open House-
September 12th. Lunenburg Middle/High Open House-September 13'h
• Early releases for Parent-
Teacher conferences. The Lunenburg Middle/High School will have early release October 23rd.
Lunenburg Primary and Elementary early release is November 13'h
. Extended day is available
for the Early Release days. Winter Break-December 24*- through January 1st
' February break is
the third week of the month. April break is the third week of the month. Half day for Professional
Development held in March. Last day of school-June 11* 2019 is the anticipated last day of
school not including snow days. Inserted five snow days. Additional inclement weather days in
excess of five are required to be made up. Ms. Bertrand discussed evaluating the inconsistency in
the shortened weeks. Superintendent Calmes stated she will continue to evaluate the calendar.
b. FY19 Superintendent's Recommended Budget- Superintendent Calmes discussed the updated
changes for Paraprofessionals are not lined up appropriately in the budget. Total overall budget
request is $20, 883,265. Represents a 5.5% increase. Includes the recommended Part-time
Preschool teacher, 2'd Grade teacher, 3'd Grade teacher, 6' grade teacher, Part-time
Paraprofessional for the library, Assistant Principal for the Lunenburg Middle school thus
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100 ~ Jax 978 582-4103
===PAGE 3===
Individualized Education Plan. Dates reflect when Summer School is occurring. Ms. Luck stated the
Professional Development day in September falls on a Thursday and the November Professional
Development day falls on a Tuesday. Can the date be moved to a Monday or Friday? Superintendent
Calmes stated the Professional Development days have been booked. The members of the faculty
assisted in developing the Calendar to avoid impacting rotation by occurring on the same day of the
week thus causing students to miss a significant amount of one class.
10. Topics for Future Discussion- Ms. Sroka evaluated the topics for future discussion including the
Calendar, Budget, and Banner Project. Superintendent Calmes discussed a future Policy discussion.
Mr. LaVeck stated the Athletic Council will have a presentation to add to the Agenda in March. Ms.
Bertrand inquired about evaluating the Community Learning Program report by spring to consider
any changes needed before the fall.
11. Adjournment-Ms. Sroka entertained a motion to adjourn. Ms. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn at 8:20
p.m. Mr. LaVeck seconded the motion. Vote: Unanimous
Meeting adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Christine Hladky-Recording Secretary
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103
