===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
November 22, 2010 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta  (acting as Cha ir), Robert J. Saiia , Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. 
Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING, First Evangelical Congregational Church: See separate minutes. 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:   Signed 11-8-10, Motion Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Executive 11-8-10, Motion, Mr. Saiia, 
Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion passed. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Noted MEDC (Massachusetts Economic Development Council)  Annual Meeting and 
Conference, Thursday, December 2, 2010. 
 
PROJECT PLAN SIGNATURES:  Board approved ANR for 1070 Northfield Road, Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion 
passed.  Comments as follows:  Board of Health - no issues; Conservation Commission - no issues; Building Official - lot area, 
frontage and width okay for zoning; Assessor - presently lot is still under one parcel (Map 036, Parcel 28) in Assessor’s file as 
assessor maps and tax files (property record cards) will not reflect changes until FY 2012.  8.9 acres; Lot 1 - 5.640, Lot 2- 1.220, 
Lot 4- 1.9775.  Book 7052, Page 56, 1070 Northfield Road.  Chapter Land N/A.  New Deed recorded for Haueisen/McDonald for 
Lot 4, Bk 7266, Pg 38.  Lot 4 Map certified 9-30-10, Bk 488, Pg 17. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- No report 
MRPC- No report 
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee - Director reported on the preparati on of the final draft of the Montachusett Region 
Emergency Back-up Power Sources Disaster Mitigation Plan.   Reported also on th e continuation of the Committee’s work on the 
Regional Energy Plan .  T his plan will require hiring a consultant to work with WPI  students in for ecasting and modeling a 
scenario of local energy needs.  The Committee interviewed a consultant and voted to present this consultant to the MRPC 
Commission for approval.   
DPW Building Committee- Vice Chair Bilotta reported on committee mee ting with Architect Gregg Yanchenko from Helene Karl 
Architects in Groton.  Discussions were held on alternatives within the plan. 
Capital Planning Committee- Director reported that a meeting regarding requests was held with the Police, Fire, D epartment of 
Public Works (DPW), School, and Technology Departments.  Director noted the issue pertaining to police cruisers.  The Planning 
Board decided to take no position.  
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
CVS- Director informed the Board that CVS was req uesting release of its Site Improvement Bond.  Noted was this is usual 
procedure following a waiting period after construction.   Read into record was a letter from peer reviewer Marsden Engineering 
Inc., that upon  final inspection , there were no issues and  site was stable. Motion to release Bond, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. 
Bodkin Jr., Motion passed. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 
11-22-10 
Page 2 
 
Green Community Task Force - Director reported work being done to prepare for funding application for a ground solar field at 
the Town Landfill.  Chair Steven Marsden is working with John Londa and a representative from Concord in this preparation.  
The Task Force noted its plan to present the Application for the Green Community’s Act for the Fall Town Meeting of 2012. 
Special Town Meeting-  Discussion on Town Meeting Articles brought no consensus as to Planning Board’s participation as a 
Board.  Consensus was that the Di rector will point out several issues and post a meeting prior to Special Town Meeting for any 
opinion, comments or support.  
Eagle House - Director noted status of the grant application.  Application needs information regarding past projects done on 
Town property.  Director noted lakefront project and roundabout.  Ms. Bilotta noted the 318 grant for $180,000.00. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  One multi-family completed.  Three have been roofed; one will be roofed in December.  Work 
will be set in January -February 2011.  Twelve units are on deposit or have been leased with expected occupancy dates 
beginning December.  Nine town houses on deposit or leased.  Villa delivery will start mid -December and will be constructed 
according to interest.  Site stabilization is ongoing.  Do not expect much green until spring 2011.   
Tri Town Landin g- The sign-off booklet was completed 11 -22-10 by all committees .  Applicant has paid the domestic and fire 
water fees to both Fitchburg and Lunenburg.  Director noted that the part of the water line from Fitchburg to development on 
Lunenburg property will be outsourced to  a water management company. Discussion ensued regarding the methodology of 
obtaining sewer and water for this development.  Noted that the Applicant was sent to Fitchburg for sewer due to lack of sewer 
availability in Lunenburg.  Also, the Lunenburg Water District and the Lunenburg Water Department could not supply water.  The 
applicant chose to obtain water from Fitchburg.  Water lines were brought to the Fitchburg city line  by Fitchburg and lines 
constructed to  the development  in Lunenburg w ere done by t he Applicant .  The Applicant paid fees  to both Fitchburg and 
Lunenburg.  The line in Lunenburg between the Fitchburg line and the development line is the responsibility of Lunenburg.  
Board noted that this type of arrangement should be settled before any a pprovals are released in the future.   
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
See above Planning Director’s Reports and Development Status Reports 
 
MASTER PLANNING:  Next workshop meeting January 12, 2011.   
 
DATA INFORMATION & GENERAL DISCUSSION:   Data folder containing i tems of interest not on agenda presented to 
members for viewing, consisting of various data information.  
 
MEMBER DATA AND ISSUES:   December meeting date - December 13, 2010.  January meeting dates - January 10 Board 
Meeting, January 12 Master Planning Workshop, and January 24, 2011 Board Meeting. 
  
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion passed.  Adjourned 7:55 PM.   
 
Minutes/2010/11-22-10 