===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair
Tel: (978) 582-4147
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director
DIS
«CORONE
Minutes
Executive Session
July 18, 2011
RSS.
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Lunenburg High School Cafeteria, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Time: 6:00 PM
ROLL CALL:
Present: Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Robert J. Saiia, Marion M. Benson
Also Present: Town Counsel Attorney Joel Bard, Kopelman and Paige
Chair called for Motion to enter Executive Session at 6:25 PM for discussion of litigation of O'Brien Homes, Inc. v. Planning
Board and the Town of Lunenburg pending strategy, Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Salia, roll call vote, Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Ms.
Bilotta, aye; Mr. Saiia, aye. Motion passed. Town Counsel Attorney Joel Bard addressed the Summons served the Planning
Board for appearance in Worcester Court on July 26, 2011. Noted was the correspondence between Attorney Winner and the
Attorney for the Aros'. Attorney Bard's position is that it is not necessary for the whole Board to appear. He reported that there
is a negative aspect. Questioning of Board members could lead to testimony that would be more harmful to the Board than
helpful. He suggests that the Planning Director go if the Court deems necessary. He also said that it may be rescheduled, which
often happens in Worcester Court. He will keep the Board informed.
Attorney Bard spoke about his concern that the Planning Board decision was not to grant the opposition an extension. He feels
that this would be a big mistake. He also spoke about the various issues concerning the case not only with the Planning Board,
but also with Aro. One unknown is whether Mr. O'Brien's Purchase and Sales Agreement is valid. Attorney Bard wishes to grant
follow Land Court's procedure and decisions.
Board members commented on their opinion of not granting an extension, reasoning that the Plaintiff has not shown any
advancement including submitting a new plan; concern for the neighborhood uncertainties, and belief that Mr. O'Brien will just
continue keeping the Town locked up legally.
Further discussion on money noted that there can be a varying degree in cost.
Ms. Bilotta spoke about the definite response of the two Board members (who could not attend tonight) that O'Brien Homes not
be granted any further extensions.
Attorney Bard will talk to Attorney Tillotson as to their intent. Chair will address the issue in a future executive session when a
full Board can be present.
Chair called for adjournment of Executive Session, Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Saila, roll call vote, Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Ms.
Bilotta, aye; Mr. Salia, aye. Adjourned 7:00 PM.
