===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Workshop Minutes 
Master Planning 
September 19, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL: 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Robert J. Saiia, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Joanne Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr. 
 
Minutes:  3-30-11 tabled to next workshop due to lack of quorum.   
 
Appointment- MRPC- 
Draft Bylaw for Summer Street 9/11/11 - Chantell Fleck from MRPC reviewed the Summer Street Revitalization District 
proposed bylaw.  Ms. Fleck noted that she research ed other towns’ bylaws such as Watertown, Gardner and Pioneer Valley.  In 
discussion questions arose such as to the extent of residential mix within the overlay, number of floors, types of appropriate 
units, design standards, landscaping, and streetscapes.  Questions to be answered, 1) commonly held lots and, 2) conflicts with 
other laws and severability.  Ms. Fleck presented a design requirement for parking lots and facilities with schematics.  She is also 
preparing a booklet showing renderings of different designs.   A brief di scussion was held on the engineered la yout for the road 
and the timeline .  Chair Bakaysa  related his interp retation and insight as to how , in his opinion , the area should look.  Director 
Benson noted that copies will be supplied to the absent members and discussion will be held on the proposed Overlay. 
Model Low Impact Development (LID) Bylaw-  Jennifer Sic iliano from MRPC presented a full explanation on Low Impact 
Development (LID).  She supplied a PowerPoint paper copy and a map showing Lunenburg wa ter areas.  The presentation 
consisted of what are Low Impact Development s and the benefits.   Recommendation is for Lunenburg to write a zoning bylaw.  
Also noted were an upcoming workshop September 26 th and a field trip on October 7th.  A copy of a model LID Bylaw was also 
presented.  Noted again was the September 26 th workshop, 3:30 PM to 6:00 PM at Miller Environmental Center in Athol.   The 
public is invited. 
Grant – Housing and Planned Production -  MPRC noted that letters were requested .  Director noted she will serve as the in 
kind donation. 
  
Remaining Agenda items below were tabled due to lack of quorum. 
Subsidized Housing Inventory Report 
Municipal Planning and Subdivision Legislation, MGL Ch. 41 
Section 81-D Master or Study Plan 
Comprehensive Land Use Reform and Partnership Act (CLURPA)- 41-81D Master Plan 
Table I-1 Planning Goals and Policies 
Discussion- Procedures for Master Planning Review  
Setting of October Meeting Dates 
 
Motion to adjourn, Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bakaysa, adjournment 8:55 PM.    
 
Minutes/2011/9-19-11 MP workshop 