===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
November 21, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  8:00 PM 
 
Present:   Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion 
M. Benson 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Motion Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, approve 11 -7-11 minutes, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed, minutes 
approved.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Special Town Meeting, 12-5-11- See Public Hearing minutes this date. 
Horizon Christian Fellowship, 2005 Mass Ave-  See Public Hearing minutes this date. 
Mass PV1, LLC, 651 Chase Road -Solar Farm -   Mr. Bakaysa to confer with Town Manager November 22 nd following 
conference call  with Town Counsel , Planning Director, and Zoning Official  this date regarding zoning. Mr. Bakaysa noted to 
audience that any questions regarding the site should be directed to the Town Manager.  Attorney Scott Fenton, Bowditch & 
Dewey, representing the Applic ant noted that the Applicant meets, or exceed s, the requirements of the zoning bylaws, that the 
Plan was submitted over 45 days ago, which, under the bylaws is constructive approval ; therefore, he is recommending  to his 
client that he go to the Planning Bo ard tomorrow for approval.  Mr. Bakaysa responded tha t he is awaiting response from Town 
Counsel; anticipating that Counsel will indicate the use is allowed by right and Applicant will be allowed to move forward with the 
project.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted  that one of the issues is that the majority of the site is zoned residential.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. 
wanted the residents to be aware that the Planning Board does not have  discretion on this matter; that MGL c. 40A, Section 3, 
prohibits cities and towns from pro hibiting such use subject only to site plan review.  The Town’s Solar Bylaw is broad and does 
not designate specific sections of Town for solar farms.   
Mr. Whalen, 526 West Townsend Road- inquired as to what was the allowable bylaw permitting the solar fa rm.  His interpretation 
of c. 40A is that it does not allow the Applicant as-of-right zoning.  Neither does the Town Zoning Bylaw state as -of-right.  He 
spoke with Kelly Brown, Regional Coordinator for the Green Communities Program Division of MA Department of Energy 
Resources (DOER).  Ms. Brown stated that communities have rights and do not have to blindly accept solar farms.  Mr. Whalen 
felt that it violated the zoning.  Both Mr. Bodkin Jr. and Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted to Mr. Whalen  that if the Building Official did 
not issue a bu ilding permit to the Applicant, the Applicant could appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals, who could either u phold 
or rescind the Building Official’s decision.    
Paula Bertram (Select Board member, but speaking as a private citi zen), 312 Townsend Harbor Road- Believes solar farms are 
not allowed under the Town’s Zoning Bylaw.  The Zoning Bylaw does not allow a commercial or industrial use in a residential 
area.  The project does not comply with the underlying zoning of the area.   
Stone Farm - Town Counsel has responded that the developer’s requested revisions to the condominium documents are 
allowable under Massachusetts law.   
Summer Street -  The office received a copy of the presentation given by Vanasse Hangen Brustlin, Inc. on  November 15 th 
regarding transportation improvements.  Board members attended presentation. 
Green Community Task Force - Informational Meeting held November 17 th with a representative from the State to discuss the 
Stretch Code and how it applies to builders and homeowners. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11-21-11 
Page 2 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
December- 12-12-11, Planning Board meeting, Town Hall. 
 
OFFICE- Massachusetts Municipal Association (MMA)- Tabled 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, all aye.  Adjourned 8:30 PM.  
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/11.21.11 