===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
May 9, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Robert J. Saiia, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Marion M. Benson 
Absent: Nathan J. Lockwood 
 
APPOINTMENT:  Marsden Engineering - 332 Massachusetts Avenue, Cote, BC, Doyle, CC, Morrisey, S., Trustees - Mr. 
Marsden presented a  design for a restaurant with a sushi bar with  20 seats and 15 tables.  The project r equired 25 parking 
spaces, but will present 33 on the plan.  Ingre ss and egress will be on Electric Avenue.   Discussed with Police Chief and Fire 
Chief.  Pavement will be marked w ith proper signage.  Engineer w ill look at 2A exit only to Lunenburg  Center after a Tech 
Meeting. S uggestion is an emergency exit with a lock box  and dressed with pavers.  The present building will be torn down.  
Original plan was Asian design but the engineer led them to a design that would refle ct a New England motif.  D umpster and 
loading dock will be in the back.  Project will require a grease trap.  Drainage will be calculated and peer reviewed.  There will be 
screening and fencing.  Landscaping will be 18’ high plantings as not to obstruct sight distances.         
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed- 4-25-11, Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Executive 4-11-11, Mr. Bodkin Jr. made 
request to discuss the minutes in Executive Session.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- no report 
MRPC- Mr. Bodkin Jr. reported that a study rec ommended an increase in MRPC employees ’ salaries. Motion was made and 
seconded at MRPC meeting and passed. Mr. Bodkin Jr. voted nay. 
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee- Director reported that a study summary will be presented to the Committee on May 13th. 
DPW Building Committee - Ms. .Bilotta reported that the Committee will have to re -plan the project to meet the $1.1 million 
dollars voted at Town Meeting.  The lowest bid came in at $1.287 million.  One of the unexpected higher charges was in the 
electric component.     
926 Mass Ave.,  Trustee of L& M Svc Ctr.  Inc.   Mr. Bodkin Jr.  related to the Board conversation s with resource people that 
noted different avenues of relief in assisting in dealing with the unsightly abandoned site.  Director noted that the Fire Chief has 
worked on this issue for several years to no avail and would be glad to pass on information within his file.  
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Green Community Task- Director reported that the Task Force received a proposal for the landfill Solar Farm.  The company is 
Borrego Solar Systems, Lowell MA.  Copies of the proposal are on file in the Planning Office.  The Task Force will seek approval 
from the Board of Selectmen.  
Lunenburg Crossing - Report from the Conservation Agent , per review  of remediation , noted that  the basins were in good 
shape as of the May 2nd site inspection.  Basin 1 needs branches trimmed over the spillway and there is a pine tree by the outlet .  
Basin 2 has two small trees to be removed.  The grease trap was cleaned.  Mr. Marro will continue inspecting as the work is 
being done.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 5-9-11 
Page 2 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront - Temporary certificate of occupancy was granted for 32 Carous el Lane pending 
elevator inspection.  Department sign-offs are being sought.  Documentation of as-builts with regards to field changes that are 
acceptable will be documented to the Lunenburg Fire Department that all multi -family buildings have be en/will be constructed 
identically with regards to fire protection and fire alarm systems.  40 Carousel Lane will be ready for occupancy by July 1, 2011.  
48 Carousel Lane is in production at KBS Maine facility.  56 Carousal Lane will b e marketed as an active adult building with 
occupancy restricted to those age 55+.  Greener Excavation has started cleanup.  Work will proceed with the construction of 
Great Pond Road to intersection of Lakefront Avenue .  Great Pond Road and Rose Garden Lane binder course paving to be 
done by end of June  
Tri Town Landing, 37 Youngs Road- No report 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OLD BUSINESS: 
 
MMA-Director reported that the MMA fees of $725.00 (with late fees) will be taken out the Planning Department Budget.  It was 
understood that since the Planning Board desired to attend one d ay of the conference, the Town Manager would see to it that 
the monies would be found.  Two member s were unable to attend after the commitment, but the Director was unable to receive a 
refund due to timing.  Invoice s were sent to the Town Manager, but returned to the Planning Director with instructions to take 
amount out of department’s budget.  Presently the budget is tight. 
Annual Town Meeting- The Board discussed the loss of Article 21  to amend Section 4.6.5.  at the Annual Town Meeting. In the 
first vote the Article lost by one vote.  When recounted it lost by two votes.  The Board noted that the purpose and intent of the 
proposed bylaw is beneficial to the Town.  Further discussion will be held on the issue and the Board intends to submit Design 
Standards at the Fall Town Meeting.   
CLURPA- tabled pending further information 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  The following schedule was adjusted for a summer schedule 
May 2011- 
May 18, Master Planning Workshop, Ritter Memorial Building - CANCELLED 
May 23, Planning Board Meeting & Public Hearing, Town Hall 
June 2011- 
June 13, Planning Board Meeting & Public Hearing, Town Hall  
June 20- Master Planning Workshop, Ritter Memorial Building - CANCELLED 
June 27, Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building - CANCELLED 
 
A more complete schedule was discussed and will be attached to these minutes.  
 
DATA INFORMATION:  Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to members for viewing, consisting of  
various data information - Reviewed  
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Separate Minutes 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   Motion to adjourn Regular Session, enter Executive Session, and not return to Regular Session, Ms. Bilotta, 
Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., all aye, roll call vote, Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Ms. Bilotta, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Mr. Saiia, a ye. Adjourned 
7:55 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/05.09.11 