===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
September 26, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:   Joanna L. Bilotta, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick Bakaysa 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed 9-12-11, Motion, Nathan Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed.   
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: 
Zoning Board of Appeals - 50 Massachusetts Avenue seeking special permit for covered walkway, 2 nd floor deck and outdoor 
seating to right of existing restaurant. 
MRPC- Reminder of an October 7th field trip to view various Low Impact Developments (LID) within the Montachusett Region.  
Electric Avenue- Notification of proposed commercial project.  Issue is frontage encumbered with above ground sewer pipeline 
and part of lot outside Sewer District.  Applicant to meet with Sewer Department.   
Building Permit- 64 Spring Street Ext. Construction of new home approved by Zoning Board of Appeals 7-20-11. 
Conservation Commission-  The following  were noted:  Determinations of Applicability for 228 Northfield Rd  to excavate and 
install a 16x32 swimming pool , 56 Laurel Lane to replace/rebuilt deck area, rebuild retaining wall, support retaining wall, and 
rebuild steps to retaining wall, 390 Page St for house w/associated appurtenances, 171 Island Rd to clean up and remove debris 
on shore, 338 Townsend Harbor Rd to install new septic tank, and 96 Laurel Ln to build ramp to door and enclose front of house 
overlooking water for disabled person.  Certificate of Compliance for 11 Beachview Rd. 
 
ANR APPROVALS:  The following plans were approved and signed by the Board.  
 146 Elmwood Road, Rocco Lastella & Ron LaPointe 
 291 West Street, June & Frank Riddle 
 168 Goodrich Street, Anders Rhodin 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Mr. Saiia submitted the 1) Montachusett Regional Transportation Plan, 2) letter noting MJTC‟s need of membership and, 
3) “The Project Development Process” booklet (9-21-11).  Noted was approval for Hubbardston.    
MRPC- Notice of October 7th field trip to view various Low Impact Developments (LID) within the Montachusett Region.  
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee - Montachusett Region Energy Plan distributed to  members.  Director noted report is a 
draft.  Final will be forthcoming with an approval meeting.  Copy on file in Planning Office. 
DPW Building Committee- Ms. Bilotta-Simeone reported that project is advancing.   
Capital Planning Committee -  Director reported that Inventory over $10,000, FY13 Plan requests, and 5 Year Plan are due on 
September 30th.   
School Reconfiguration Committee - Mr. Lockwood submitted School Facilities Study  discussion.  Reported that since 
regionalization studies were not fruitful, the State demands a plan for reconfiguration of present school system (ex 7 -12) before 
any reimbursement consideration. A plan will be required.   Plan cost can be approximately $750 K.  Reconfiguration can result in 
one less school.  Two other issues were brought up in discussion; exit plan for any discarded building and a maintenance plan.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 9-26-11 
Page 2 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Mass PV1, LLC, 651 Chase Road -Solar Farm-  A draft Environmental Impact Statement was submitted by Sta ntec Planning 
and Landscape  A brief meeting was held wit h Stantec representatives, the Zoning Officer , and the Director to review  the 
necessary data to be submitted.  A complete submittal will be submitted September 30 th with a Tech Meeting being held 
September 28th.   
Eagle House Parking Lot- Director called to meeting on September 27th.   
Open Space- Open Space plans for consideration  for recreational options on Town lakes.  State Fish and Game Department is 
interested in providing an entrance to Lake Sh irley for car-top vessels.  Brandon Kibbe from Town Open Space Committee and 
Fish and Game is investigating the proposed project.  Issues are 1) ownership of the Lake, 2) ownership of area on Parmenter St 
for entrance and, 3) the possibility of contamination of the Lake by a particular weed.  Open Space Committee has requested Mr. 
Kibbe to speak to the Committee on Fish and Game‟s goals and plans. 
Summer Street – Noted Status Report and rescheduling of next Summer Street Task Force Meeting from  September 27 th to 
November 1st.  This meeting  will involve Mr. Bakaysa and Mr. Lockwood.  Following meeting  on Bylaw Overlay for Summer 
Street with Lunenburg Planning Board, a copy was sent to Fitchburg by MRPC.  
Green Community Task Force - Director reported that the Ta sk Force has asked the Board of Selectmen to place an article on 
the Fall Town Meeting Warrant requesting the Town vote to become a Green Community under the State Statute.  The Board of 
Selectmen has asked the Task Force to present workshops, etc. for the public prior to Fall Town Meeting.   
ANR Issue - Director noted the Board of Health‟s issue with ANRs.  Director described the process.  Procedure data was 
submitted to the Board.  Director noted she wou ld have further conversation with the Town Manager.   Noted Fee Schedule of 
$100.00 basic administrative fee plus $75.00 for each additional lot created. 
Board of Appeals Bylaw Request -  Chair Bowen requested that Bylaw Section 4.1.5.1. , Uses Prohibited in all Districts , be 
reviewed.  The issue is the parkin g of non -permanent structures at private residential lots.   As the bylaw is written, it 
encompasses all sizes and shapes and creates neighborhood problem s.  Suggestion is to refine the Bylaw to prohibit certain 
types and size but allow small GVW load vehic les.  All the larger stru ctures, vehicle be garaged if on property.  The Board 
requests more information and examples and suggest the Zoning Board of Appeals provide data of size and types.   
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
DPW Facility, Chase Road- Determination of Applicability has been filed with the Conservation Commission. 
Asian Imperial, 332 Massachusetts Avenue- All permits are granted. Beginning date has not been determined.  
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront - Lakefront sand has been check ed and has been approved .  Non -compliance 
dock will be removed.  Issue with Management„s message will be corrected.  
Highfield Village, Mass Ave/Northfield Road -  A copy of the Application to Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act ( MEPA) 
Office was submitted t o the Planning Office.   MEPA meeting wi ll be held September 30 th, 10:00 AM, at Northfield Road site.  
Information concerning comments will be posted on Town‟s website.  Mr. Saiia and Ms. Benson will attend. 
Stone Farm Estates, Massachusetts Avenue - Office still awaiting response from Town Counsel .  Stone Farm is seeking an 
answer ASAP. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OLD BUSINESS: 
925 Massachusetts Avenue-  Clean Harbors pumped 537 gallons of waste gasoline from the station.  Fire Chief does not have 
any reason to bel ieve the tanks were leaking.   It was noted that the Fire Chief‟s authority to go onto the property to pump the 
tanks will not extend to any other work at that site.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
No meeting on October 10th due to Columbus Day.  
October 17th Master Planning/Bylaw meeting. 
October 24th Regular Planning Board Meeting (Director to try to set up this meeting on local access channel). 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  See separate minutes 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn regular session and enter  executive session,  not to return to regular session,  Mr. 
Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, roll call vote, Mr. Saiia, aye, Mr. Lockwood, aye, Ms. Bilotta, aye , Motion passed.  Adjourned 8:45 
PM. 
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/09.26.11 