===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
November 7, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:   Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Thomas W. Bo dkin Jr., Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:   Signed 9 -26-11, 10-24-11, and MASS PV1 LLC Information Meeting 10 -24-11, Motion Mr. Saiia, 
Second, Mr. Lockwood.   
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  The following were noted: Conservation Commission Certificates of Compliance for 69 
Island Road and 6 Beachview Road; both for septic systems.  A Determination of Applicability for 26 Spring Street Extension for 
rebuilding on same footprint.  Zoning Board of Appeals Special Permit for 50 Massachusetts Avenue to expand existing 
restaurant.  Noted DPW correspondence regarding debris cleanup from the October 31 st snow storm and resident drop -off at the 
Youngs Road landfill. 
 
APPOINTMENT:  Highfield Village - Project Engineer  Kent Oldfie ld, New England Engineering Group familiarized the Board 
with the project.  Project consists of 66 units .  Entrance/exit on Northfield Road with emergency access on Pope Road .  Project 
has gone through several changes over the past five to six years , which will be noted in the EI R (Environmental Impact Report) 
required by MEPA (Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act) .  MEPA site walk held 11 -30-11.  When the plan was originally 
submitted, a pump station was proposed at Northfield Road.  With the subsequent creation of the Sewer Commission, the 
Commission requested sewer instead down Maple Parkway and White Street.  Applicant has finished borings and project has to 
go to Weston & Sampson Environmental Consultants for review.  Road widening will take place at the intersections of New West 
Townsend/Northfield Roads and Chase/Northfield Roads .  Conduit will be installed at Chase/Northfield Roads for possible future 
installation of signalization.   Applicant is working towards a 6 -month timeline to get all required  reports, paperwork, etc., 
completed in order to move forward with the project.  Applicant currently has an Extension from the Planning Board which 
expires December 31, 2011.  At that time, Applicant anticipates requesting another Extension.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- No report 
MRPC- Meeting held 11-1-11.  Nothing significant to report. 
DPW Building Committee -  Meeting biweekly on site.  Core building dry walled and heating being installed.  New building 
expected to arrive 2-3 weeks.   
Capital Planning Commi ttee-  Meeting held at the Public Safety Facility Building  with the Fire and Police Chiefs.  Fire Chief 
asking for refurbishing of Engine 4 to extend vehicle’s longevity for eight more years.  Police Chief requesting 6 Tasers.  
Committee will meet 11-3-11 with Technology.   
School Reconfiguration Committee -  Advisory Committee p resentation to the School Committee to be held 12 -7-11, 7 pm, 
Town Hall.  Presentation open to the public.     
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11-7-11 
Page 2 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Ms. Benson noted response to Mr. Bakaysa’s previous inquiry as to the current attained percentage of subsidized housing in 
Lunenburg; T own has 132 units which equal 3.27% - need a total of 10%.   Tri Town Landing has been State -approved for 
another building of 33 units, which will add to the 3.27%.   
Special Town Meeting, 12-5-11 
Zoning Articles - The Land Use Departments were provided copies of the two draft zoning bylaw articles and 
requested to provide any comments/input to the Planning Office prior to this e vening’s Board meeting.  The two zoning articles 
were 1) Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District and , 2)  Design Standards.  Written comments were received from Ray 
Beal, Zoning Board of Appeals member. 
Comments/Citizen Participation -  Zoning Board of  Appeals Chair, Donald Bowen, Ray Beal, and Michael 
Sauvageau, Zoning Officer/Building Commissioner were in the audience.   Mr. Sauvageau felt that the Design Standards were 
not specific enough to be design standards, e.g., “Façade and roof colors shall be appropriate to the area…..”, should instead 
specify what colors are appropriate.  He also noted that if Design Standards is accepted at Special Town Meeting, other Sections 
of the Zoning Bylaw would have to be changed as they would conflict with the Design  Standards, e.g., Permit Granting Authority 
(clarification of Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Board).   Mr. Beal’s comments focused on the Design Standards Bylaw.  He 
evaluated the proposed Article by considering the Citizen’s Check List that is include d in the front of Town Warrant.  Mr. Beal felt 
that “the proposed change would impose unreasonable restraints on  business people who may be  looking for an opportunity to 
operate a business in the Commercial Zoning District ”, and that the “current zoning By laws provide ample control over the use of 
property”.  Adding Design Standards would be a “deterrent to an owner’s willingness or incentive to invest in the productive use 
of commercial property in our Town”.  He felt that the Development Plan Review curre ntly in place was enough, as visible with 
the Wal-Mart/Hannaford site.  He was also concerned that if this is taken further, it could infringe on the personal rights of 
residential home owners.  Mr. Bowen’s additional comments were that as noted at the May  2011 Annual Town Meeting, the 
Design Standards were vague, and if an applicant appealed the Planning Board, they would always end up before the Zoning 
Board of Appeals.  He also requested that  when Town Counsel is engaged as to what the Planning Board can /cannot do, the 
Zoning Board of Appeals be included in the discussion for purposes of clarification.   Ms. Benson will get comments in writing and 
work with Mr. Sauvageau on updating the Bylaw. 
Horizon Christian Fellowship, 2005 Mass Ave - Public Hearing sch eduled for November 21 st for applicant to locate antennas 
for a Christian radio station on the telecommunications tower located at 2005 Massachusetts Avenue.   Application to be 
reviewed by Mr. Marsden.  
Mass PV1, LLC, 651 Chase Road -Solar Farm-   Due to miscommunication regarding meeting date, in the Applicant’s absence, 
Reviewing Engineer Mr. Marsden was asked to give a brief summary of Applicant’s plan redesign  as a result of the October 24 th 
Information Meeting.  Mr. Marsden noted that Applicant relocate d some panels to provide more distance from abutters on West 
Townsend Road.  Also, an additional two rows of plantings will be provided by the Applicant, thereby providing a total of four 
rows of plantings between the project and residential abutters  adjacent to the 17 acre panel array area.  Three abutters to the 
project viewed the revised plans.   Stuart Leinson, 494 West Townsend Road, inquired if project was still in planning stages or 
had the Plan been approved?  Ms. Benson did not anticipate any more r evisions as the Plan meets the requirements of the 
Zoning Bylaw.  Mr. Marsden noted that wetland buffers preclude moving the array sites closer to Chase Road.  Brenda Whalen, 
526 West Townsend Road, inquired as to what is meant by detention basins; Mr. Marsden defined.  She is also concerned with 
her property value with a solar field in her “back yard” .  Ms. Benson noted these are allowed “by right”, per the State.   Mr. 
Leinson asked how the Town benefits from the solar farm.  Ms. Benson responded that goin g Green is a benefit to the Town .  
Financial benefits do not fall under the Planning Board’s jurisdiction.  Ms. Whalen inquired if solar farms are allowed in res idential 
zoning.  Under the Zoning Bylaw, yes.  Mr. Marsden noted that this site has been limit ed to 6 MegaWatts, if larger; it would then 
become a power company.  As a private project it is limited to 6 MegaWatts under the Green Communities Act passed by the 
State legislature.  Under the Green Communities Act this is considered a public utility, wh ich is for the public good, and therefore, 
by right, can be sited in any zoning district.  Baron Bowser, 512 West Townsend Road, noted he sent e lectronic mails to State 
Representative Jennifer Benson and State Senator Jennifer Flanagan.  Senator Flanagan r esponded that she would look into it, 
but to her it sounded like a local issue.  Mr. Bowser noted that t he Planning Board is saying it is a State issue.  He does not feel 
the public is aware that this is being sited in a heavy residential area. 
Stone Farm- No response yet from Town Counsel regarding review of the Master Deed Amendment.  
Summer Street- Alternative Analysis Meeting, 11 -15-11, 7:30 PM, Town Hall .  Some Board members will attend.  November 1st 
Task Force meeting postponed due to October 1st storm.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 11-7-11 
Page 3 
 
Green Community Task Force -   Article to be placed on Warrant for December 5 th Special Town Meeting for Town to vote to 
become a Green Community.   If passed, this does not become a section of the Zoning Bylaws of the Town.  It  may be included 
in the General Bylaws or a separate Town Law .  Mr. Bodkin Jr. inquired if passed, is this predicate to a project?  No.  Mr. 
Marsden, former chair of the Green Community Task Force, noted that part of becoming a Green Community is by right 
placement of solar, wind, and cogeneration systems.  Whether or not the Town votes to become a Green Community does not 
affect the by right aspect of solar farms.   On November 17th the Task Force will hold a public meeting to discuss the Town “going 
green” and residents are encouraged to attend.  Representatives from the State will be present to answer questions.  If the Town 
votes to become a Green Community, it can then apply to the State for grants.   Mr. Marsden referred back to the abutter 
question regarding any financial benefit to the Town  from the solar farm application for 651 Chase Road  – the site is considered 
Real Property and therefore the panels are taxable, which will generate revenue for Lunenburg .   
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
DPW Facility, Chase Road- Weekly progress reports on file in Planning Office. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront -  Weekly progress reports note construction on Building 56 commencing and 
work continuing on Villa units 9 and 11. 
Highfield Village, Mass Ave/Northfield Road- See appointment above. 
Tri Town Landing - DHCD (Department of Housing and Community Development) has provided additional subsidies to 
Lunenburg for Tri Town Landing to construct another building of 33 units.   Prior to construction, the developer must ensure that 
there is still enough water and power available from the city of Fitchburg to support the building.  
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OLD BUSINESS: 
See Above Planning Director’s Reports and Development Status Reports  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
November- 11-21-11, Planning Board Meeting, Public Hearings for Zoning Articles and Horizon Christian Fellowship, 2005 Mass 
Ave, Town Hall. 
December- 12-12-11, Planning Board meeting, Town Hall. 
 
OFFICE- Massachusetts Municipal Association (MMA) - Packets received in the  Planning Office and  distributed to Board 
members.  Funds are not available in the Planning budget for Board members to attend MMA  Annual Conference.  Ms. Benson 
noted that monies will be needed for updating of the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land. 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  Ms. Benson felt that the Design Standards Bylaw needed m ore work and should not be a Warrant Article for 
the December Special Town Meeting.   Mr. Bodkin Jr. and Ms. Bilotta felt that once Mr. Sauvageau and Ms. Benson work 
together on verbiage revisions, the Bylaw will be ready for the December Special Town Meeting.  If necessary, a Planning Board 
workshop regarding the Warrant Zoning Articles will be scheduled for 5:00 PM, November 21 st, prior to the Planning Board 
meeting. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   Ms. Bilotta, Motion to adjourn Regular Session, enter into Executive Session, not to return to Regular 
Session, Second, Mr. Lockwood, Roll Call Vote, Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Saiia, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Ms. 
Bilotta, aye.  Adjourned 9:30 PM.   
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/11.07.11 