===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Workshop Minutes 
Master Planning 
January 19, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:    Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood 
Attendee:  Select Board Chair, Paula Bertram 
 
MINUTES:  Signed 11-15-10, Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion passed.  
 
Chair opened the workshop by listing the areas of concern for updates to the Master Plan.  The list consists of the Center Plan, 
Summer Street, Industrial and Commercial Leominster Shirley Road Area, Housing Stock, Economic Development, and 
Recreational Facilities. 
 
Discussion was that a study of the future of the Center should take place regarding the physical outline, type of development and 
historical element. 
 
Discussions regarding Economic Development focused on what the Town can offer applicants.  Also of interes t is where Retail 
Commercial can grow.  Question posed pertaining to whether an Industrial/Commercial Overlay District be formed for more 
economic development options.  It was suggested that development brochures addressing local attributes of Lunenburg be  
created.  High speed fiber optics connections along Route 2A should assist in defining possible commercial ventures. 
 
The Facilities Element was discussed regarding the high school’s future.  All report s to present is lack of process in decision 
making pertaining to State demand for study of regionalization. 
 
Recreation discussion was based on the need in the Whalom area.  There are needs for future fields and facilities.  Chair 
recommends a plan increasing the lake beach area be presented to local develop ers requesting that they work with the Town in 
designing an area that would serve the Town and the development.  Chair will make the contact for discussion.  Consensus was 
the Board of Selectmen be involved.     
 
Summer Street’s status was discussed.  Ther e have been meetings with Vanasse Hangen Brustlin Inc. between Lunenburg, 
Fitchburg and Leominster to re -design the street to be a safe roadway and to ensure the design gives the opportunity for 
economic growth.  Presently the need is for design monies.  More information will be secured from the Town Manager.   
 
Director recommended to the Planning Board that Summer Street, which comes under the Circulation Element, and needs of the 
Whalom area be placed under the Land Use Element and Open Space Element and  be the first consideration in updating the 
Master Plan. 
 
Motion to Adjourn, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr. 
Minutes/2011/1-19-11 MP workshop 