===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
January 24, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta  (sat as Chair) , Robert J. Saiia , Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. 
Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
Jamie Rheault , Whitman and Bingham Associates LLC -  Requested the Planning Board  support a zoning change for 134 
Leominster Shirley Road, Map 146, Parcel 26, from Industrial to Commercial.  Mr. Rheault noted that Charles Gitto (owner) has a 
buyer who wishes to site a commercial complex of a gas station, convenience store and similar business.  Board members noted 
that consideration for an overlay district may be app ropriate.  In summary, the Board indicated to Mr. Rheault they would support 
the zoning change from industrial to commercial.  Mr. Rheault will follow up for presentation to the Board . 
Steve Mullaney, SJ  Mullaney Engineering Company- Represented Keating Tr ust at 1263 Reserv oir Road.  He presented a 
Development Plan Review for tank and silo replacement associated with hot mix manufacturing operation.  There is a reviewing 
engineer and a review “Tech” meeting planned with a required public information meeting set for February 14, 2011.   The Board 
has requested that the increased height of six of the silo s be identified by either flying a balloon or some other methodology. 
Explanation of the horizontal tank to be replaced with vertical tanks is to meet the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) 
standards for air quality.   The tallest tanks will be  approximately 90 feet and the shorter ones 49 feet.  Director will sen d out a 
memorandum to abutters noting the project and the new height of the silos.   
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed 1-10-11, Motion, Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr.,  Signed Executive 12 -13-10, previously 
voted on; signed this date.  Executive 1-10-11 not signed, correction to be made. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATION :  Director noted Zoning  Board of Appeals petition of Priestly A. Bisong, d/b/a Best Auto, 40 
Summer St, to operate used car lot for twenty vehicles - no comment from Board .  Noted ZBA petition of Edward W. Alleva Jr., 
92 Whalom Road, for outside storage and display of ten used vehicles fo r sale.  Question  was if this is a  new use.  Beside a 
permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals it would it require a development plan review.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC-no report 
MRPC- no report 
DPW Building Committee- reported final plans reviewed  
Capital Planning Committee - Director reported on the draft priori tization.  CPC will meet with Town Manager as to funding 
sources. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 1-24-11 
Page 2 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Television Sessions - Director noted arrangements for the televisi ng of the first Board meeting each month beginning in 
February.  Discussion included seating, attire, material, i.e. more precise details on agenda items including location. 
Census-Director noted that the latest news is that it will be March before all information is released. 
NRWA Workshop- Director reminded Board of the February 9 th workshop at the Eagle House.  The workshop is entitled “Low 
Impact Development: A Better Way to Work in the Landscape”.   Invitations have gone out and have also been placed in  Town 
Hall mailboxes. 
Summer Street- Director reported on correspondence from the Town Manager funding of $50K from the State toward the re -
design of Summer Street.  Also, the State is looking for at least one of the three communities to identify a 43D sit e. 
Eagle House-The Committee is still waiting to hear on the grant. 
Green Community Task Force- Preparation for grant request on solar field on the landfill is continuing. 
Open Space- Next meeting is February 11, 2011. Committee members have committed to add additional information. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Highfield Village - Board has requested the letter from Highfield Village asking for the extension be presented at the next 
Planning Board meeting as the vote to extend was based on the receipt of the letter.  
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom - Report was given on number of boxes received. Villas and second large units are the next 
buildings to be completed. 
Tri Town Landin g- A brief visit from the Chair of the Stim ulus Funding office held on site.  The purp ose was to visit a 40R site 
that had completed part of a project supported in part from that type of funding.  The projection is that 50% of the two buildings of 
66 units in all will be rented by February 1 st.  A report of the number of school children is sent to the  Lunenburg School  
Superintendent each week. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
MMA Annual Meeting- A brief report was given on seminars attended by attendees.  
Sign Bylaw- Director inquired as to what direction the Board will be taking  concerning the Sign Bylaw.  A short discussion was 
held concerning excess signs in the Town Center.   
Lunenburg Crossing- Director reported on remedial work in process.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
February 2011- 
February 14 Information Meeting for 1263 Reservoir Road, Keating Trust, followed by Planning Board meeting (to be televised). 
February 16 Master Planning Workshop 
February 28 Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
DATA INFORMATION:  Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to members for viewin g, consisting of  
various data information.  
 
OFFICE:  New copier/scanner/printer has been delivered to office.  Connection and Instruction is due this week. 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION: see separate minutes 
 
ADJOURNMENT: Vice Chair asked for Motion to go into Exec utive S ession for purpose of discussion of direction to Town 
Counsel in the O’Brien Homes (Aro Estate s Litigation), Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Lockwood, roll call vote, Mr. Bakaysa, 
aye, Mr. Lockwood, aye, Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye, Ms. Bilotta, aye, Mr. Saiia, aye.  Adjourned Regular Session 8:00 PM. 
 
 
Minutes/2011/01-24-11 