===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Workshop Minutes 
Master Planning 
February 16, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:    Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent: Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Robert J. Saiia 
Attendee:  Select Board Chair, Paula Bertram 
 
Chair opened workshop meeting and listed three topics for discussion :  1) 134 Leominster Shirley Road - requested zoning 
change from Industrial to Commercial, 2) Summer Street - design/zoning changes, and 3) Center Plan. 
 
Question was brought forth as to relation of the three topics to Master Planning.   Ms. B ilotta explained that her desire is to 
concentrate on updating the previous plan section by section.  Chair noted that Summer Street was a current issue that needed 
to be addressed. 
 
Workshop continued in reviewing the Summer Street area and discussing design elements such as sidewalk, bike paths and  
green screening.  Also discussed was the zoning pertaining to commer cial and/or industrial.  The desired width of Summer Street 
was explored.  The question posed is whether or not the street should be reconstructed as a two lane or a four lane road.  For 
the purpose of future discussions and recommendations, the Chair and Vice Chair will return to the site and draw a sketch 
pertaining to the above discussion as a base of the study.  Further discussion was held on creating a design bylaw to assist in 
managing the appearance of the Town.  Director will research other communities and seek estimates for professional help in 
writing the bylaw.  The Director was also asked to invite Patricia Donigan to a meeting for discussion on design.   
 
 Further discussion pe rtained to a zoning change at 134 Leominster Shirley Road.  Ms. Bilotta sought clarification as to the 
support sought by the applicant.  Present members noted support. 
 
Motion to adjourn, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Lockwood, adjourned 8:45 PM. 
 
MINUTES:  1-19-11 tabled to next meeting.  
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/2-16-11 MP workshop 
 