===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
August 15, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:   Joanna L. Bilotta, Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr. 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed 7-11-11, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed; Signed Executive 7-11-11, 
Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed.  Signed Executive 7-18-11, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, 
Motion passed.  Director noted released Executive minutes of 2-26-07, 3-26-07, 4-9-07, 4-23-07, 10-22-07, 12-10-07, & 9-8-08. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: 
 Noted letter from Nashua River Watershed Association that  Mark Archambault, the NRWA’s Smart Growth Circuit 
Rider is available to provide planning assistance in his capacity as a professional planner.  
 Handouts for Board members from Beacon regarding zoning reform bill. 
Zoning Board of Appeals - Noted special perm it granted, 64 Spring St Extension, to demolish existing home and reconstruct 
new on same footprint; public hearing, August 10 th, Dee Bus Svc Inc. to park 11 school buses at 39 Mass Ave; and public 
hearing August 24 th, Christopher Ioshua, filing as person aggrieved by the Building Official’s decision and seeking approval to 
construct an accessory housing unit at 12 Town Street. 
Conservation Commission - Noted Orders of Conditions for 332 Mass Ave, demolition and drainage correction and 897 
Northfield Rd septic system.  Noted Certificates of Compliance for 498 Holman St.  Noted Conservation Commission agendas for 
July 20th, August 3rd and August 17th.   
Building Permits- Three issued for Riley Road (Stone Farm Estates). 
 
ANR APPOINTMENTS: 
Rocco Lastella & Ron LaPointe, 146 Elmwood Road - Plan presented by Whitman & Bingham Associates on behalf of the 
owner/applicant for division into two lots.  Plan will be distributed for review. 
Joe Russo, 493 West Street- Applicant requested postponement. 
Joe Russo, 357 Electric Avenue- Applicant requested postponement. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Mr. Saiia reported that meeting was held July 20 th.  One topic of discussion was  potential hazard mitigation grant.  
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) is being approved for FY2012-FY2015. 
MRPC- No report 
DPW Building Committee- DPW Director has been meeting with contractor.  Construction trailers on site.   Under the Lunenburg 
Zoning Bylaw, a Development Plan Review (DPR) will commence by the Planning Board.  Review will be done p ro-bono by 
David E. Ross Associates.  Presentations made by the DPW Committee to the Board of Selectmen and at the July 18 th Special 
Town Meeting will be utilized by the Planning Board as the required information meeting.  
Capital Planning Committee - Meeting held August 4 th to review/update process and procedures.   Timeline noted (on file in 
Planning Board office).  Next meeting scheduled for September 7th.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 8-15-11 
Page 2 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
1263 Reservoir Road, P J Keating - Site visit this date by Building Official and Planning Director.   August 11th review letter from 
site engineer S. J. Mullaney Engineering Inc.  notes he performed final construction inspection and that improvements are in 
compliance with the Planning Board ’s Findings and Directives.   Included with Mullaney Engineering letter was final certification 
under the State Building Code issued by the applicant’s structural engineer, Peter Reynolds of McKenzie Engineering Inc.  An 
as-built is presently underway. 
Open Space- Lunenburg’s Open Space and Recreation Plan received final approval from Executive Office of Energy and 
Environmental Affairs (EOEA); which will  now allow Lunenburg to participate in Division of Conservation Services ( DCS) grant 
rounds through November 2014.  Ad Hoc Committee will pursue. 
Eagle House Parking Lot- Eagle House did not receive DHCD grant.  MRPC noted that  the State did not fund any senior center 
projects.  Council on Aging Director will attempt to pursue other avenues.   Mr. Saiia noted that he would like to be involved in 
assisting the Council on Aging Director. 
Commonwealth Capital FY 2012 - Notification received from EOEA that no application will be required for Fiscal Year 2012.  A 
new policy that builds on the successes of Commonwealth Capital is under development by the State. 
MassPlanners – Conservation Development Bylaw - Handout of proposed Conservation Development Bylaw revisions in the 
town of Wendell for the Board’s perusal. 
Annual Update – Ch. 40R- Completed and sent to DHCD. 
Summer Street - Mr. Lockwood and Mr. Bakaysa will represent the Planning Board when a committee is formed.  MRPC is 
looking at a revitalization overlay district and will come up with a model bylaw. 
Green Community Task Force- Noted reorganization of Task Force due to Chair Slattery’s resignation.  Chair, David Blatt, Vice 
Chair, Steven DiCampo, Secretary, Joanne McQuaid, Members Zachary Cutting, Carl Sund and Neal Sullivan, Advisors Marion 
Benson, James Breault, and John Londa.  Task Force is waiting for Town Counsel’s review of Borrego Solar’s contract for the 
landfill.  Noted EPG Solar’s interest in siting on Electric Avenue and EOSOLAMERICAS on Chase Road.  EOSOLAMERICAS 
engineers are on site surveying and preparing a grading and drainage plan.  Present time table for presentation to the Town is 
late summer/early fall.   
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Asian Imperial, 332 Massachusetts Avenue -  Permit received from Mass Department of Transportation  (DOT).  Ingress and 
egress on Electric Avenue approved by MassDOT.  Old egress on Massachusetts Avenue will be gated ; for emergency use only.  
Special Permit granted by Zoning Board of Appeals for demolition of the existing building and construction of the new restaurant.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront -   In response to Chair Bakaysa’s inquiry at the August 15 th Board meeting as to 
the management office being a permissible use under the Overlay District, Director noted August 11, 2011 letter from the 
Building Commissioner/Zoning Official.  Letter states in part, “    a management office would meet the „business or professional 
office‟ criteria of the bylaw under Section 4.5.2.1(g) and would be allowed by right ”.   Motion to approval applicant’s request  to 
construct a commercial office/management building , Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Lockwood.  Motion passed.  Applicant can proceed 
once building permit obtained.  Director to prepare necessary approval paperwork for applicant to register at Registry of Dee ds.  
Weekly progress report noted and on file in Planning Office. 
Tri Town Landing, 37 Youngs Road - The two construc ted buildings are fully occupied.   Student count is less than  estimated.  
Figures are directly supplied to School Superintendent by applicant.   
Highfield Village, Mass Ave/Northfield Road- Director noted 7/20/11 memo from the Sewer Commission to the Planning Board 
which states, in part, that the Commission remains whole -heartedly in support of the development plan and is waiting for the 
applicant to submit a revised plan.  The Commission fully expects it will approve the revised plan.  Discussion ensued over 
whether or not to continue giving timeline extensions to the applicant.   Questions arose as to when the Sewer Commission 
anticipated receiving the plan  and when did the Planning Board originally rec eive the application.  Director noted there would 
probably be financial ramifications to the applicant if the Planning Board voted not to allow any more extensions.  Director to 
check current status with the Sewer Commission.  Discussion to continue at the  September 12th Board meeting.  Director was 
asked to provide project timeline from initial application. 
Stone Farm Estates, Massachusetts Avenue - December 13, 2004 Board approved plan was available for members to view as 
to original units’ placement.   Applicant is requesting modification to take a single unit and a 3 -plex unit located as the first 
buildings within the development and change them both to 2 -plex units.  Motion made, Mr. Lockwood, to approve modification 
contingent on correction of numbering of unit 15 (should say unit 54), Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OLD BUSINESS: 
925 Massachusetts Avenue - Director noted Board of Selectmen concern with getting petroleum removed from tanks.  Director 
to seek status update from Town Manager per Board request.  Member also inquiring if owner current with taxes. 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 8-15-11 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
September 12, Planning Board Meeting, Town Hall 
September 19, Master Planning/Bylaw Workshop, Ritter Building 
September 26, Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Building 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Separate minutes 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn regular session and enter executive session, not to return to regular session,  Mr. Saiia, 
Second, Mr. Lockwood, roll call vote, Mr. Saiia, aye, Mr. Lockwood, aye, Ms. Bilotta, aye, Motion passed.  Adjourned 7:55 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/08.15.11 