===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
December 10, 2012 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia 
 
MRPC (Montachusett Regional Planning Commission) -  Presentation by John Hume on Lunenbu rg Priority 
Development/Preservation Areas.  Presentation attached. 
 
Aro Estates:  Mr. Bakaysa asked for a Board vote to move Aro Estates ahead on the agenda.  Mr. Brian Milisci, Whitman and 
Bingham Associates (W&B), presented a letter on behalf of Kevin O ’Brien, O’Brien Homes.  The letter , dated December 7, 2012, 
was in response to the review letter of October 22, 2012 from Jesse Johnson, David E. Ross Associates .  The Board will review 
W&B’s response letter to see if all issues are addressed  and appropriate steps will be taken from there.  Mr. O’Brien wanted to 
go through the letter immediately as he did not receive the review from Ross Associates until November 26 th.  He noted the 
extent of time that had lapsed from his appointment before the Planning Boa rd on September 10 th (at which time he dropped off 
a set of plans) to the present date.  He anticipates there will be disagreement between the Board and himself as to the official 
submittal date and timeframe.  He noted that the submittal he supplied to th e Board on September 10 th is a resubmittal of the 
initial application from 2009; excepting that it has been broken down into subdivisions of 25 acres or less per the Court Decision.  
Mr. Bakaysa noted that once the Board has a complete submittal, the statu tory time frame will commence.  Ms. Benson will 
forward the letter received tonight from W&B to Ross Associates, request an anticipated review time response, and then notify 
Mr. O’Brien of the anticipated response time.  Mr. O’Brien requested that he be ke pt informed as to where the Board is in the 
process.  Mr. Bakaysa noted that when any future public record documents are received in the Planning Office regarding Aro 
Estates, those documents will be sent to Town Counsel and Mr. O’Brien simultaneously.  Mr . O’Brien wanted the Board to be 
aware that he will be doing site testing throughout the winter months.  He will also be meeting with the Water District and S ewer 
Commission. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, Motion to approve 1 1-26-12, and Executive 10 -23-12, Second, Mr. Lockwood, 
Motion passed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC-  No report.  Mr. Saiia absent. 
MRPC- Working on relocation space for MRPC. 
School Reconfiguration Committee -  Joslin, Lesser & Associates, Inc. has reviewed the Request for Designer  Services (RFS) 
with the Committee.  Three Committee representatives will serve on the MSBA Designer Selection Panel.  Eight Committee 
members were selected for a Project Coordination Group (PCG) which will meet regularly for a variety of items under discu ssion 
and present results to the Committee.  Next Committee meeting will be December 17 th.   
Capital Planning Committee -  Form Bs and Five Year Plans have been submitted by Town departments.  The Committee has 
begun the review process and is meeting with various department heads. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Planning Board Minutes 
12.10.12 
Page 2 
 
OLD BUSINESS:  Highfield Village, Northfield Road -  Current extension expires December 31, 2012.  A pplicant is requesting 
an extension to April 2013.  The Sewer Commission is still awaiting  new plans to review.  Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, for Board 
to extend to March 31, 2013 on the condition that the Applicant is proceeding with the permitting process with the Sewer 
Commission.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Member Resignation - Motion, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, to accept resignation of Board member Robert J. Saiia.  Ms. Benson will 
prepare a response letter from the Board accepting Mr. Saiia’s resignation effective January 1, 2013.  Discussion ensued 
regarding a Board replacement for MJTC.  Motion, Mr. Lockwood , for Ms. Bilotta-Simeone to replace resigning member Saiia as 
the representative to MJTC, effective January 1, 2013, Second, Mr. Bakaysa, Motion passed.   
Board Vacancy -  Notice of Vacancy will be posted at the official posting location s.  Ms. Benson will check with the Town 
Manager’s office to see if there are any completed Talent Bank forms indicating interest in the Planning Board.   If so, the 
individual will be contacted and asked to complete an Application Form.  
APR Applications- Lanni Orchards, 294 Chase Road, and Pierce Farm, 490 Chase Road have filed applications with the State 
Department of Agricultural Resources for the  Agricultural Preservation Restriction program.    Board requesting fin ancial 
information prior to sending a letter of support to the Board of Selectmen.     
Cease & Desist, 35 Leominster Road - Cease & Desist issued by Building Official.  “Saw Mill” operating in violation of the 
bylaw.  Application for a special permit needs to be filed with the Planning Board.   
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue- Progress reports note progression of work.  Weekly reports on file in the Planning Office. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Progress reports note work continuing on villa at 33-39 Carousel Lane. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road- Progress reports note progression of work.  Weekly reports on file in the Planning Office.  
Aro Estates, Howard Street- Board had discussion regarding status.  Town Counsel has not presented a definitive picture as t o 
whether or not the Town and the Applicant are proceeding directly to court.  The Board feels they should be following  the 
planning process even while legal strategy is ongoing.  Once the office is in receipt of Jesse Johnson ’s review  response to 
Whitman and Bingham’s December 7, 2012 letter, his response w ill be provided to Town Counsel  and Mr. O’Brien.  Ms. Benson 
to compile a chronological list of events beginning with the partial project submittal to the Planning Office.   Board is requesting 
summarization from Town Counsel as to discussions/actions taken to date following joint meeting with Board of Selectmen on 
October 23, 2012.  Board feels there should be a joint meeting with the Board of Selectmen and Town Counsel for discussion as 
to Right of First Refusal on the Aro property.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  January 14, Town Hall, and January 28, Ritter Memorial Building.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  10:15 PM 
 
Attachment 
MRPC Presentation 
 
 
Minutes/2012/12.10.12 