===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
July 30, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood,  
Absent:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson  
 
SPECIAL PERMIT- EPG Solar, 265 Pleasant Street - As the Procedural History portion of the Special Permit was previ ously 
covered in the Development Plan Review (DPR), Mr. Bakaysa read into record  only the Cover Sheet, Findings and Directives.   
 
This special permit approval follows the Applicant’s application for Development Plan Review (“DPR”) 
submitted and reviewed under the applicable provisions of the Zoning Bylaw existing at the time of its filing 
on November 29, 2011.  The Planning Board approved that application by written decision issued on June 
13, 2012, and, in its decision, noted that subsequent to EPG’s Nove mber 29, 2011 application, the Zoning 
Bylaw was amended by Town Meeting on May 5, 2012 to include new provisions applicable to all solar 
energy facilities (Section 4.15 Solar Energy Systems), including this proposed facility.  Among other things, 
those provisions require a special permit from the Planning Board for all large -scale ground-mounted solar 
energy facilities proposed to be located outside of the Solar Overlay District.  As EPG Solar LLC’s proposed 
solar facility is not located within the Solar Ov erlay District it requires a special permit.  In accordance with 
those requirements, the Applicant subsequently filed an application for a special permit, which, as set forth 
herein, the Planning Board hereby grants.         
 
II. FINDINGS UNDER SECTION 4.15.4.3 OF THE ZONING BYLAW 
 
1. Section 4.15.4.3 of the Zoning Bylaw states: 
 
Except where permitted as-of-right in the Solar Overlay District, Large -Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic 
Installations may be located on any lot containing more than 20 acres i n any district by special permit issued by 
the Planning Board, provided however, that the requirements of Section 4.15 and the following criteria are met. 
 
1. Standards: In granting the special permit, the Planning Board shall find that the permit may be g ranted 
without substantial detriment to the public good and without nullifying or substantially derogating from the 
intent and purpose of this bylaw, and shall find that: 
 
o the specific site is an appropriate location for such an installation;  
o the proposed installation will not adversely affect the existing neighborhood; 
o the granting of the special permit will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, sunlight and other 
amenities, and;  
o there will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 07-30-12 
Page 2 
 
2. Conditions: The Planning Board may impose any conditions deemed necessary to achieve the purpose of 
this Bylaw, such as, but not limited to, the following: 
 
o greater than minimum setback requirements; 
o modification of exterior appearance; 
o limitation of size or extent of facilities; 
o regulation of traffic and site plan features; 
o screening of premises from view by use of appropriate walls, fencing or buffer strips; 
o control of the number, location, size and lighting of signs; 
o additional design and siting modifications where appropriate. 
 
2. The Board finds that the project complies with Section 4.15.4.2 of the Zoning Bylaw.  Specifically, the Board finds that:    
  
A. The proposed project site is not within the Solar Overlay Dis trict.  It does, however, contain over 20 acres 
and is, therefore, eligible for a special permit. 
B. As the proposed project site is within a residential zoning district and abuts other lots within the residential 
zoning district, a 200 foot buffer strip a nd 200 set back is required.  The plan, as presently proposed and as 
approved by the Planning Board herein, complies with these design/dimensional standards. 
C. The granting of a special permit for this project would not be a substantial detriment to the p ublic good nor 
would it nullify or substantially derogate from the intent and purpose of the Zoning Bylaw.  The project 
makes use of approximately 5.3 acres of the entire 47.2 acre site leaving substantial areas of undisturbed 
open space, vegetation and screening from abutting parcels and roadways.   
D. The site is an appropriate location for a solar facility in that it can accommodate both a solar facility of 
adequate size so as to be of value to the Applicant and accommodate adequate screening and set bac ks 
from adjacent properties so as to minimize its impact on adjacent property owners, public ways, and the 
community generally. 
E. The proposed installation will not adversely affect the existing neighborhood by affecting the historical 
significance of the site, scenic vistas, the natural and rural character of the neighborhood, or public safety.  
As discussed above, much of the site will remain in its natural state or will be landscaped to provide 
screening and buffering from adjacent properties and ways.  Notwithstanding, some arrays may still be 
visible from certain vantages due to the upsloping topography of the site.  Additionally, reasonable steps 
are proposed to insure that the site is secure, that the Town’s emergency responders are adequately 
trained and educated and that emergency contact and shut down information is provided to the Town and 
clearly marked on-site.  
F. The granting of the special permit will not unreasonably diminish available light, air sunlight or other 
amenities and there will be no appreciable hazard to vehicles or pedestrians.  
 
3. The Board finds that the project complies with Section 4.15.4.9 of the Zoning Bylaw.  Specifically, the Board finds that:    
 
A. The project will not be lit.  
B. Signs will be small and in full compliance with Zoning Regulations. 
C. Land clearing will be limited as set forth above. 
D. The proposal complies with all safety requirements. 
E. A draft O&M plan has been provided and a final plan will be provided as set forth in the Directives below. 
F. The project has been designed to minimize visual impact. 
G. The height of the panels will be far less than the permitted 35 foot height limit. 
H. All roads will be permeable and will minimize impacts. 
I. The project will comply with all DEP and other regulations concerning hazardous materials.  A SPCC plan has 
been submitted to the Planning Board. 
J. The facility will comply with 310 CMR 7.10 noise requirements.   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 07-30-12 
Page 2 
III. DIRECTIVES AND CONDITIONS 
 
49. The Directives and Conditions set forth in the Development Plan Review approval are hereby incorporated herein. 
50. The Applicant shall submit a final plan of record consistent with the Overview Plan submitted to the Planning Board 
on July 23, 2012.     
51. The Applicant shall present a procedure for monitoring the solar arrays and all the land in the project to the Building 
Official/Zoning Officer and the Planning Board for approval.   
52. The Applicant shall report to the Planning Board per the attached sheet every Monday morning during construction 
(see attached).  Further, the Applicant shall include in this report any problem during construction that 
affects/infringes on the neighboring residents’ properties. 
53. The Applicant shall cooperate with the Town Reviewing and Monitoring Engineer inspecting the project to ensure 
construction according to the approved plans. 
54. The Applicant shall show that a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan and a copy of the Order of Conditions have 
been filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and/or Massachusetts Department of Environmental 
Protection (DEP) as appropriate.  Said plan shall provide schedules and details of the construction.  
55. The Applicant shall not make any substantive changes to the plans or scope of work without submitting those changes 
to the Planning Board for engineering review. 
56. The Applicant shall submit to the Planning Board and the Building Official for approval a schedule of construction 
phasing, stabilization methods, and maximum areas to be unstable at any one time to prevent erosion or drainage 
issues. 
57. The Applicant shall su pply names and other emergency contact information to the Fire Department, Police 
Department, Planning Board and the Building Official.  
58. The Applicant shall notify the Lunenburg Planning Board the date it begins construction and the date it begins use of 
the facility and when the surveillance cameras are operational.  
59. The Applicant shall provide the Lunenburg Planning Board all future information and correspondence regarding the 
Conservation Commission’s Order of Conditions so the Planning Board will have a  complete file on the installation of 
the Solar Farm. 
60. EPG shall file its revised plan and proposal, as herein approved by the Planning Board, with the Conservation 
Commission and obtain either a new Order of Conditions or Amended Order of Conditions, which ever the 
Conservation Commission requires, before any building permit may issue. 
61. The Applicant shall notify the Planning Board of any problems/changes in the field that warrants an engineer’s 
inspection as to how the noted problems/changes affect the previously reviewed plan. 
62. The Applicant shall review the last Landscaping and Screening Plan to add screening for the complete fence and 
adjust the plan to include planting details discussed at its July 23, 2012 presentation.  
63. The Applicant shall submit an As Built Plan prior to the final inspection. 
64. Pursuant to Section 4.15.4.11 of the Zoning Bylaw, if the facility is to be decommissioned, the Applicant and/or Owner 
shall give notice to the Planning Board of any proposed date of decommissioning and submit plans  for its removal.  
The Applicant and/or owner shall physically remove the installation no more than 150 days after the date of 
abandonment or the proposed date of decommissioning operations.   
65. The Applicant shall present a Performance Guarantee before construction as listed below: 
 
A. Insurance in a reasonable amount determined and approved by the Planning Board after consultation, and 
at the expense of the Applicant, with one or more insurance companies to cover damage from structures 
and other site liabiliti es.  Annual proof of said insurance shall be filed with the Town Treasurer or 
Accountant.   
B. An annual maintenance bond shall be posted for the access road and site prior to the initiation of any 
construction or site preparation.  Said amount to be determin ed by the Planning Board and Applicant, if 
any.   
C. The Applicant shall post a bond, or other acceptable form of security, with the Town to cover the cost of 
removal in the event that the applicant and/or owner does not remove the arrays and any accessory 
structures within six months of the date that the facility ceases to be used.  
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes 07-30-12 
Page 2 
 
66.           The Planning Board will notify the Applicant of the date this decision is provided to the Building Official/Zoning Officer. 
 
67.           No building permit shall issue until this decision is recorded at the appropriate registry of deeds and proof of recording  
is provided to the Planning Board.  
 
Appeals, if any, shall be filed within twenty (20)  
days following the filing of this decision with the Town Clerk. 
 
Filed with Town Clerk: ___________, 2012 
 
The Board noted l andscaping changes w ill be discussed in the field and will adhere to that discussed at the July 23 rd Public 
Hearing Continuation.  The O&M Agreement will cover plant maintenance and Coir Logs.   
 
Motion, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone to approve the Special Permit as submitted by Chair  Bakaysa, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Roll Call 
Vote, Mr. Saiia, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye. 
 
Mr. Bakaysa read into record the Certificate of Granting of Special Permit. 
 
JULY 30, 2012 
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
Certificate of Granting of Special Permit 
(General Laws Chapter 40A, Section 11) 
The Planning Board of the Town of Lunenburg hereby certifies 
that a 
Special Permit has been granted 
Section 4.15. 
 
To: Twin City Baptist Temple 
194 Electric Avenue (Property Owner) 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 EPG Solar LLC (Applicant) 
 5425 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 600 
Chevy Chase, MD 20815 
 
Affecting the rights of the present owner with respect to land at 265 Pleasant Street (Map 077, part of Parcel 0014), Lunenburg, 
MA 01462. 
 
And said Planning Board further certifies that the decision attached hereto is a true and correct copy of its decision granti ng 
said Special Permit, and that  copies of said decision, and all plans referred to in the decision, have been filed with the Town 
Clerk. 
 
The Planning Board also calls to the attention of the owner or applicant that General Laws, Chapter 40A, Section 11 (last 
paragraph) provides that no  Special Permit, or any extension, modification or renewal thereof, shall take effect until a copy of 
the decision bearing the certification of the Town Clerk that twenty days have elapsed after the decision has been filed in t he 
office of the Town Clerk and no appeal has been filed or that, if such appeal has been filed, that it has been dismissed or denied, 
is recorded in the Registry of Deeds for the county and district in which the land is located and indexed in the grantor inde x 
under the name of the o wner of record or is recorded and noted on the owner’s certificate of title.  The fee for such recording 
or registering shall be paid by the owner or applicant. 
 
Attorney Mead noted that under Section 14, even if an appeal has been filed, an applicant can construct at their own risk. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., adjourned 7:00 PM. 
 
Minutes/2012/07.30.12 