===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
November 26, 2012 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion to approve 10 -15-12, 11-13-12, and 11 -19-12, Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion 
passed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC-  Next meeting will be January 16, 2013.  Discussed during meeting were benefits that are supplied to surrounding towns, 
i.e., grant writing, block grant assistance, traffic count assistance, etc.  
MRPC- Next meeting will be held November 27, 2012.  October meeting dealt with  possible MRPC office relocating from the 
current MART location.   
School Reconfiguration Committee-  Project Managing firm of Joslin Lesser and Associates, Inc., introduced to the Town via a 
televised School Committee Meeting.  Next step will be hiring of an architect to produce a schematic.  Projected opening of the 
new building will be fall 2016.   A Town Meeting vote will be required for construction of a new school.   MSBA (Massachusetts 
School Building Authority) reimbursement will be approximately 50%.   
 
OLD BUSINESS:   Ms. Benson noted 1) Notice of Activity and Use Limitation and Response Action Outcome for 1 Whalom 
Road, 2) Chapter Land in Town, and 3) local permitting process.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue - In house meeting held with owner/applicant, project engineer, and Fire Chief to discuss 
gating of exit onto Massachusetts Avenue.  Fire Chief  does not want it gated; would be a hindrance to emergency vehicles .  Ms. 
Bilotta-Simeone was of the opinion that traffic will become backed -up with the ingress/egress being on Electric Avenue.  Work 
progressing as noted in weekly reports to include instal lation of ceiling grid, floor tiles, sprinkler heads, and partial interior window 
trim.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Weekly progress reports note final foundation being dug on the interior loop. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road - Weekly progress reports not e work on roofing, installation of windows, drainage piping, and 
waterlines.  Correspondence from McKenzie Engineering Company, Inc. indicates that the remedial work to the water system 
resulted in a 260% increase in available fire flows and an increase in public safety. 
Aro Estates, Howard Street - Town Counsel has forwarded the reviewing engineer’s ( Jesse Johnson, David E. Ross 
Associates, Inc.) initial review for completeness of submittal to the owner/applicant’s (Kevin O’Brien, O’Brien Homes) attorney.  
Discussion ensued as to the Board’s understanding that Mr. O’Brien’s attorney initially noted this project would g o straight to 
litigation.  Now Mr. O’Brien’s attorney is noting the submittal should go through Board review.  Board members are concerned 
with the timeline.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. requested a status memorandum from Town Counsel.  A conference call will be held November 
27th between Mr. Johnson, Town Counsel Joel Bard, and Ms. Benson.  Ms. Benson noted to Board a memorandum  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 11-26-12 
Page 2 
 
from Town Counsel to Mr. O’Brien’s attorney requesting they go over Mr. Johnson’s review and respond to Town Counsel.   Ms. 
Benson noted that no submittal should be accepted unless it is complete; regardless of how insignificant an item may seem.  Ms. 
Bilotta-Simeone noted that both the Planning Board and Board of Selectmen had previously voted to go straight to litigation.  Mr. 
Lockwood noted that he thought that was contingent on Mr. O’Brien’s acquiescing, otherwise the review process would be held.  
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted that at the October 15 th Board meeting Mr. O’Brien requested the filing fees be waived; at that time, 
the Board noted it would do more research regarding waiving of fees  (no vote was taken ).  Board requested Ms. Benson notify 
Mr. O’Brien that filing fees will not be waived.  There was Board discussion regarding Mr. O’Brien’s request at the November 19 th 
meeting that he be included in every Planning Board agenda for discussion of Aro Estates.  Board requested Planning Office 
provide Mr. O’Brien with copies of the Board’s future agendas via electronic mail.   
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Noted the following:  1) Sewer Intent to Connect at 44 Whiting Street, 71 Main Street and 70 
Lesure Avenue, 2) ZBA letter to Gary Lorden extending comprehen sive permit for Lunenburg Village, 250 Whalom Road, to 
August 2014 , and 21 Ramgren Road seeking special permit for dimensional variation to construct attached garage , 3) 
Conservation Commission Determination of Applicability  for 97 Island Road to remove trees to access septic tank for replacing , 
and 122 Cross Street for new septic system, 4) Conservation Commission Order of Conditions for 71 Main Street for new house, 
4 Sequoia Drive  for septic, and 820 Reservoir Rd  for driveway w/in buffer , 5) Conservation Commission Certificate of 
Compliance for 167 White Street, and 619 Reservoir Rd septic upgrade , 5) Building Permits for 71 & 73 Main Street (duplex) , 4 
Richard’s Way Whites Woods, and 31 Round Road. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  December 10, 2012 with the focus on MRPC’s report regarding review of the Priority Development 
Areas (PDA’s) and Priority Preservation Areas (PPA’s).   Ms. Benson will inquire of Town Counsel as to conference call/possible 
executive session regarding Aro Estates.  Meeting to be held at the Ritter Memorial Building. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   Mr. Bodkin Jr. recommended that Board members view the Chapter Land properties in order for the 
Planning Office to develop files regarding same.   Ms. Benson noted agricultural meeting  with local farmers and a representative 
from the State.  A committee will be formed with the intent to put in place an Agricultural Commission and develop a right -to-farm 
bylaw.  Committee will be chaired by James Lattanzi.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Mr. Lockwood, adjourned 7:35 PM. 
 
 
Minutes/2012/11.26.12 