===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Public Hearing Minutes 
Town Meeting Articles 
April 9, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA. 01462 
Time:  7:15 PM   
Members Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, C hair, Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Vice Chair, Robert J. Saiia, Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
Chair opened the Public Hearing at 7:10 PM with the reading of the legal notice published in the Sentinel & Enterprise on March 
26, 2012 and April 2, 2012.  The Public Hearing  was to hear amendments to the Zoning Bylaw by deleting from the current 
Section 6.6., Subsection 6.6.7. entitled Solar Energy Systems and add to the current Section 4.0. Use Regulations a new Se ction 
entitled Section 4.15. Solar Energy Systems.  Notices were sent to abutting towns, cities, agencies and Town departments. 
 
Article 19 To see if the Town will vote to delete from the current Section 6.6. in the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.6.7. entitled “S olar 
Energy Systems,” or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Article 17 To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding to the current bylaw Section 4.0. entitled “Use 
Regulations,” a new Section entitled Section 4.15. “Solar Energy Systems,” or taker any other action relative thereto. 
 
Section 4.15  SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS 
 
4.15.1  Purpose  
The purpose of this section is to provide siting for solar photovoltaic energy systems for power generations for all, home, 
commercial or industrial installations.  Small -Scale Ground -Mounted Photovoltaic Installations, Roof -Mounted Solar Energy 
Installations and Large -Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installations within the Solar Overlay District may be constructed 
without need for discretionary app roval as set forth herein.  Large -Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installations outside of 
the Solar Overlay District may be constructed by special permit provided certain criteria as set forth herein are met.  The 
provisions in this section of the Zonin g Bylaw shall apply to the construction, operation, repair, and/or removal of all solar 
electric systems, and to physical modifications that materially alter the type, configuration, or size of these installations  or 
related equipment. 
 
4.15.2 Definitions   
Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation:  A solar photovoltaic system that is structurally mounted on the ground 
and has a nameplate capacity under 10 kW.  
 
Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation:  A solar photovoltaic system t hat is structurally mounted on the ground 
and has a nameplate capacity of 10 kW or greater. 
 
Rated Nameplate Capacity:  The maximum rated output of electric power production of the photovoltaic system in Direct 
Current (DC). 
 
Solar Photovoltaic Array:  An arrangement of solar photovoltaic panels. 
 
Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Installation:  Solar photovoltaic arrays placed on the roof of residences, or commercial, industrial or 
institutional buildings and Town owned municipal buildings. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 4-9-12 
Town Meeting Zoning Article 
Pg 2 
 
Buffer Strip: A strip of land between the solar photovoltaic arrays, and any structures accessory thereto, and the boundary of the 
parcel reserved for plant material, berms, walls or fencing to serve as a visual barrier. 
 
Plant Material:  Trees or shrubs of a type and height that sufficiently screen the arrays without blocking necessary sun that would 
hinder the product performance, including ground cover that would screen the lower portion of the arrays. 
 
4.15.3  Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations and Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Installations 
 
4.15.3.1 Purpose  
The purpose of section is to promote the creation of renewable energy for individual residences, commercial enterprises and 
municipal buildings, as-of-right.    
 
4.15.3.2 Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Installations   
Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Installations shall be located so as not to increase the total height of the structure more than one (1)  
foot above the applicable zoning regulations related to hei ght in the District in which it is located, or such other height as is 
determined by the Building/Zoning Official to be essential for proper operation, but in no case no more than four (4) feet.  
 
4.15.3.3 Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Installations  
Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation are not permitted in the Zoning Dimensional Setbacks as listed in Section 
5.0, Subsection 5.2 of the Zoning Bylaw and may not be located closer than 25 feet from residential side-yard lines.  
 
Dimensional setbacks for Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation shall have a front lot setback no closer than the 
existing foundation of the primary dwelling to the front property line, except when the existing foundation of the primary 
dwelling i s more than 125 feet from the front property line or otherwise if determined appropriate by the Building/Zoning 
Official. 
 
Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation shall be adequately screened from the neighboring lot line as determined 
by the Building/Zoning Official. 
 
A Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation with twenty feet or greater in height, at its maximum extension, shall 
require a Special Permit in accordance with Section 4.15.4.3.   
 
4.15.3.4 Required Documents 
The following documents shall be required: 
 
A. Sun and shadow diagrams specific to the proposed installation to determine the solar  access. 
B. Detailed information, including maps, plans or dimensional sketches showing proposed location of the solar 
installation, including any setbacks from property lines or distances from structures which are used for habitation on 
adjacent properties, and a landscape diagram showing proposed screening.  
C. Site drawings showing the building and structure footprints, property lines, location and the dimensions of solar arrays, 
ridgeline of roof and description of the installation.  
D. Elevation drawings showing heights of buildings and solar arrays. 
 
4.15.3.5 Permitting 
Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations and  Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Installations require only a building 
permit, except that a Small -Scale Ground -Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installation twenty feet in height or greater, at its 
maximum extension, shall require a special permit in accordance with Section 4.15.4.3.  All data listed above shall be submitted 
to the Building/Zoning Official.  All other necessary permits shall be obtained before a building permit is issued.    
 
4.15.3.6 As Built Plans 
As-built plans shall be submitted prior to final inspection to the Building/Zoning Official and copied to the Planning Board. 
 
4.15.4 Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations 
 
4.15.4.1 Purpose 
The purpose of this section is to facilitate the creation of new Large -Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations by 
providing standards for the placement, design, construction, operation, monitoring, modification and removal of such 
installations that address public safety, minimize impacts on environmental, scenic, natural and historic resources and to provide 
adequate financial assurance for the eventual decommissioning of such installations. 
 
Subject to the requirements below, Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations are permitted as-of-right in the 
Solar Overlay District and by special permit in any other district.  The special permit granting authority for these purposes shall 
be the Planning Board.    
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes. 4-9-12 
Town Meeting Zoning Article 
Pg 3 
 
4.15.4.2 Solar Overlay District 
 
Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations are allowed by right in the following designated Overlay District: 
1. 27 Youngs Road, 42 Acres, Map 115, Parcel 016 (Commercial District) (Mr. Bakaysa noted this parcel is 
the old Lunenburg landfill.) 
2. 671 Lancaster Avenue, 132 Acres, Map 110, Parcel 3 (Residence B) (Mr. Bakaysa noted this parcel is 
under the control of the Lunenburg Water District.) 
3. 500 Leominster Shirley Road, 17.4 Acres, Map 144, Parcel 001 (Office Park and Industrial).  (Mr. Bakaysa 
noted this parcel is under the control of the Lunenburg Water District.) 
 
4.15.4.3 Siting By Special Permit  
 
Except where permitted as -of-right in the Solar Overlay District, Large -Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations 
may be located on any lot containing more than 20 acres in any district by special permit issued by the Planning Board, provided 
however that, the requirements of Section 4.15 and the following criteria are met.    
 
1. Standards: In granting the special permit, the Planning Board shall find that the per mit may be granted without 
substantial detriment to the public good and without nullifying or substantially derograting from the intent and purpose of t his 
bylaw, and shall find that: 
- the specific site is an appropriate location for such an installation;  
- the proposed installation will not adversely affect the existing neighborhood; 
- the granting of the special permit will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, sunlight and other 
amenities, and;  
- there will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians. 
2. Conditions: The Planning Board may impose any conditions deemed necessary to achieve the purpose of this Bylaw, 
such as, but not limited to, the following: 
- greater than minimum setback requirements; 
- modification of exterior appearance; 
- limitation of size or extent of facilities; 
- regulation of traffic and site plan features; 
- screening of premises from view by use of appropriate walls, fencing or buffer strips; 
- control of the number, location, size and lighting of signs; 
- additional design and siting modifications where appropriate. 
 
4.15.4.4 Development Plan Review 
All Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installations shall require Development Plan Review, under Section 8.4 of the 
Zoning Bylaws, by the Lunenburg Planning Board.  A public information meeting shall be held by said Board.  The Building/Zoning 
Official shall not issue a building permit unless and until the Planning Board submits an approved Development Plan Review 
Document, and Special Permit documentation where applicable, to the Building/Zoning Official.   
 
A building permit will be issued by the Building/Zoning Official that shows evidence that the project is consistent with stat e and 
federal building codes, the findings and directives of the Development Plan Rev iew, and/or Special Permit, and local bylaws and 
regulations, including those set forth by the Conservation Commission.  As -built plans shall be submitted prior to final inspection 
to the Building /Zoning Official with copies to the Planning Board. 
 
4.15.4.5 Utility Notification  
Evidence shall be provided at time of the application for the Development Plan Review that the utility company that operates 
the electrical grid where the installation is be located has been informed of the applicant’s intent to co nstruct a solar 
photovoltaic installation and that approval to connect to the grid has been granted or appropriate application(s) have or wil l be 
been made to such utilities for interconnection.  Off -grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.  Rea sonable efforts 
should be made to place all utility connections underground, depending on appropriate soil conditions, shape and topography o f 
the site.    
 
4.15.4.6 Fees  
An application for a Development Plan Review shall be accompanied by the required fee and a tri-party account (in-house escrow 
account with the Planning Board, Developer and Town Treasurer) for engineering review, monitoring, and inspections fees.  An 
application for a building permit shall be accompanied by the fee required for a buildin g permit.  All other fees that shall be 
required by permitting parties (Conservation Commission, etc.) shall be administered according to their regulations.     
 
4.15.4.7 Setbacks and Buffer Strips 
Buffer Strips in all Districts: All installations shall be  surrounded by a buffer strip which shall be two hundred (200) feet in width 
in a Residential, Conservation or Recreation District and shall be 50 feet in a Commercial or Industrial district unless it a buts a 
Residential, Conservation or Recreation Distric t in which case the buffer strip shall be two hundred feet in width along such 
abutting lot lines, unless the applicant can demonstrate, and the Planning Board finds, that adequate buffering can be provid ed 
in a narrower buffer strip.   
  
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes, 4-9-12 
Town Meeting Zoning Article 
Pg 4 
 
Setbacks in all Districts: 
 
Front Yard: The Front Yard Depth shall be at least 50 feet, provided, however, that when the lot is in a Residential, 
Outlying or Recreation District or abuts a Residential, Conservation, or a Recreation District, the front lot setback shall 
not be less than 200 feet.  
 
Side Yard: Each side yard setback shall be at least 50 feet, provided, however, that when the lot is in a Residential, 
Outlying or Recreation District or abuts a Residential, Conservation, or a Recreation District, the side yard setback shall 
not be less than 200 feet.   
 
Rear Yard: The Rear Yard Depth shall be at least 50 feet; provided, when the lot is in a Residential, Outlying or 
Recreation District or abuts a Residential, Conservation, or a Recreation District, the rear yard setback shall not be less 
than 200 feet.  
 
 4.15.4.8 Required Documents 
 
In addition to documents required for Development Plan Review, the following will be required for Large -Scale Ground-Mounted 
Solar Photovoltaic Installation.  The Planning Board may waive one of more of these requirements in its sole discretion under 
appropriate circumstances for Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installation between 10 kW and 249 kW.  
 
A. All plans and maps shall be prepared, stamped and signed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in 
Massachusetts. 
B. Property lines and physical features, including roads for property sites. 
C. Proposed changes to landscape of site, including grading, vegetation, clearing, planting,  screening vegetation or 
structures. 
D. Locations of wetlands and Priority Habitat Areas defined by the Natural Heritage & Endangered Species Program. 
E. Locations of floodplains or inundation areas for moderate or high hazard dams. 
F. A list of any hazardous materials proposed to be located on the site in excess of household quantities and a plan to 
prevent their release to the environment as appropriate.  (See Section 4.15.4.9(I))   
G. Drawings of the installation showing the proposed layout of the system and any potential  shading from nearby 
structures. 
H. One or three phase line electrical diagrams detailing the installation, associated components and electrical 
interconnection methods with all National Electrical Code  compliant disconnects and overcurrent devices. 
I. Documentation of the major system components to be used, including the electric generating PV panels, mounting 
system, inverter, etc. 
J. Name of property owner, address, telephone number, e-mail 
K. Name of lessor or lessee, address, telephone number, e-mail 
L. Name of contact person, address, telephone number, e-mail  
M. Name of designing engineer, address, telephone number, e-mail 
N. Names of contractors, address, telephone number, e-mail 
O. Name of installer, address, telephone number, e-mail 
P. Zoning District designation for parcel of land, map and parcel.  
Q. Documentation of actual or prospective access and control of the project site  sufficient to allow for construction and 
operation and maintenance of the proposed solar photovoltaic installation.   
R. Provision of water including that needed for fire protection. 
S. Proof of liability insurance. 
T. Description of the financial surety required by Section 4.15.4.12 below. 
U. Sight line representations depicting in pr ofile the view of the proposed installation, and any appurtenant structures, 
from the location upon any public road within 300 feet that would have the most unobstructed view of the 
installations, and from the closest wall of each residential building with in 300 feet of the highest point of the 
installation.  
V. A screening plan, in compliance with Section 4.15.4.9(F). 
 
4.15.4.9 Design Standards  
 
A. Lighting 
Lighting of solar photovoltaic installations shall be consistent with local, state and federal law.   Lighting of other parts of the 
installation, such as any appurtenant structures, shall be limited to that required for safety and operational purposes and s hall 
be reasonably shielded from abutting properties.  Where feasible, any required lighting shall  be directed downward and shall 
incorporate full cut off fixtures to reduce light pollution.  
B. Signage 
Signage size shall comply with the Zoning Bylaw and shall not be used for displaying any advertising except to identify the o wner 
and/or operator of the solar installation and a 24–hour emergency contact telephone number. 
C. Land Clearing 
Clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to what is necessary for construction, operation and maintenance of the 
installation  Any land disturbance, including ea rth removal of land cleared greater than one acre shall be subject to Stormwater 
Management criteria and/or otherwise prescribed by applicable laws, regulations and bylaws.  
===PAGE 5===
 
Minutes, 4-9-12 
Town Meeting Zoning Article 
Pg 5 
 
D. Safety, Emergency Service and Environmental Standards 
The applicant shall provide a copy of the project summary, electrical schematic, and site plan. The applicant shall develop a n 
emergency response plan including showing all means of shutting down the solar installation.  The appl icant shall submit the 
name of the person answerable to inquires throughout the life of the installation.  If the designated person changes, the name of 
the new designated person shall be submitted as an addendum. 
E. Monitoring and Maintenance 
The applican t shall submit a plan for the operation and maintenance of the installation which shall include measures for 
maintaining the site including safe access, stormwater control, structural repairs and the integrity of security measures.  T hese 
measures must be acceptable to the Fire Chief and emergency medical services personnel.  If needed, training of service 
personnel will be provided by the applicant.  The owner/operator shall be responsible for the cost of maintaining the 
installation. 
The applicant shall also submit a Monitoring/Inspection Form under the Development Plan Review during construction, and shall 
further submit a report on the condition of the structure and site by January 15th of each year. 
F. Visual Impact 
Any Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installation shall be designed to minimize visual impacts including preserving 
natural vegetation to the maximum extent possible, blending in equipment with the surroundings, and adding vegetative buffers  
to screen abutting residential propert ies whether developed or not.  Siting shall be such that the view of the solar electric 
generating installation from other areas of Town shall be as minimal as possible.  Buffer Strips shall surround the proposed 
project.  A screening plan, that assures th e facility is shielded to greatest extent possible from public view, shall be required to 
be reviewed under the Development Plan Review.    
G. Height 
The height of any structure associated with a Large -Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installation s hall not exceed 35 
feet. 
H. Roads 
All access roads and interior roads shall be constructed to minimize grading, removal of stone wall or trees and to minimize 
impacts to environmental or historic resources.   
I. Hazardous Materials  
Hazardous materials stored, used, or generated on site shall not exceed the amount for a Very Small Quantity Generator of Hazardous 
Waste as defined by the Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") pursuant to 310 CMR 30.000 and shall meet all requirements of 
the DEP including storage of hazardous materials in a building with an impervious floor that is not adjacent to any floor drains to prevent 
discharge to the outdoor environment.  If hazardous materials are utilized within the solar electric equipment then imperviou s 
containment areas capable of controlling any release to the environment and to prevent potential contamination of groundwater are 
required. 
J. Noise 
Noise generated by a Large-Scale Ground -Mounted Solar Photovoltaic Installation, and by any associated equipme nt and 
machinery, shall conform to applicable state and local noise regulations, including the Department of Environmental Protection’s 
Division of Air Quality noise regulations, 310 CMR 7.10. 
 
4.15.4.10 Modifications 
All modification requests to a solar photovoltaic installation, including changes in arrays, addition to number of arrays or change 
in placement made after issuance of the required building permit shall require review through the Development Plan Review for  
compliance with this Bylaw.   
 
4.15.4.11 Abandonment and Removal 
The owner or operator shall physically remove the installation no more than 150 days after the date of decommissioning 
operations.  The owner or operator shall notify the Planning Board by certified mail of their proposed date of discontinued 
operations and plans for removal.  The notification shall consist of the methodology of physical removal of all structures, 
equipment, security barriers and transmission lines, disposal of all solid and hazardous waste and stabilization or re-vegetation of 
the site.  Landscaping, etc. may be left upon approval of the Planning Board.  If the owner or operator fails to remove the 
installation in accordance with the above criteria, the Town may, after the receipt of an appropriate court order o r consent of 
the property owner, enter the property and physically remove the installation at the owner’s expense.  As a condition of 
Development Plan Review, a property owner shall agree to allow the Town entry to remove an abandoned or decommissioned 
installation.  The cost for the removal will be charged to the property owner in accordance with the provisions of G.L. 139, 
Section 3A as a tax lien on the property. 
 
4.15.4.12 Financial Surety  
Proponents of large-scale solar photovoltaic projects shall pro vide a form of surety, either through an escrow account, bond or 
otherwise to cover the cost of removal in the event the Town must remove the installation and remediate the landscape, in an 
amount and form determined to be reasonable by the Development Pla n Review Authority but in no event to exceed more than 
125 percent of the cost of removal and compliance with the additional requirements set forth herein, as determined by the 
project proponent.  Such surety will not be required for municipally or state o wned facilities.  The project owner/operator shall 
submit a fully inclusive estimate of the costs associated with removal, prepared by a qualified engineer.  The amount shall 
include a mechanism for calculating increased removal cost due to inflation.  
===PAGE 6===
 
Minutes, 4-9-12 
Town Meeting Zoning Article 
Pg 6 
 
4.15.5 Conflicts 
In the event that any part of this Section conflicts with other requirements of the Zoning Bylaw, the requirements of this Section 
shall apply. 
 
Chair Bakaysa opened the Hearing to public comment. 
 
John Londa, Autumn Road- He felt the Bylaw had a lot of protection for putting arrays on residential structures, but no coverage 
for between small- and large-scale, e.g., 80 or 100 kW.  If a resident wanted to put a 100 kW system on a 10 acre parcel, e.g., on 
an existing farm  or business , this should be allowed in Town to support the local businesses  without going through the 
requirements for large-scale solar.  The Board will discuss this with Town Counsel to see if there is a gap in coverage.   
 
David Prokowiew, West Street - requested surveillance equipment/cameras be added to Lighting section of the bylaw.  Asked 
when is installation considered abandoned?  Board will look at  an agreement with the utility that when it is no longer connected 
to the grid it will be considered to have ceased operation.  
 
David Blatt, Lancaster Avenue - specify under 4.19.4.9. Design Standards A. and E. security cameras IP (Internal Protocol) 
monitored over the internet by the police and/or fire department.  Board will inquire of Town Counsel.   
 
Paula Bertram, Townsend Harbor Road - suggested use definition of abandonment in State model .  Feels strongly that  siting 
should be through overlay districts voted on at town meeting versus siting by special permit.   
 
John Whalen , West Townsend R oad- Feels Residential District should not be included in  large-scale solar.  Mr. Bakaysa 
responded that if located only in Commercial and Industrial Districts, this will reduce the possibility of bringing 
commercial/industrial business to Town and limit jobs.   
Mr. Whalen- Referred to an interconnection document with UNITIL that made reference to interference, vibration harmonics, that 
may be produced by the inverters.  Will be added to “4.15.4.9. Design Standards, J. Noise”. 
 
Public Hearing closed at 8:45 PM. 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2012/town mtg art 4-9-12 