===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
May 14, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood (arrived late), Marion M. Benson  
Absent:  Thomas W. Bodkin Jr. 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:   Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, to approve 4-23-12 and 5-5-12.  Second, Mr. Saiia.  Minutes signed. 
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
EPG Solar - EPG Solar was represented by Matthew Bombaci  from GPR (Goldsmith, Prest & Ringwall) .  The Applicant has 
increased the number of plantings by almost 300%.  Lorayne Black, landscape architect, will assist with plant selection and 
placement.  Two-foot berms with plantings have also been provided.  The berms will have breaks in them so as not to catch any 
rain water and create drainage issues.  In addition to the original plantings, Ms. Black has added spruce, firs, junipers, and 
arborvitaes.  She has recommended mixed plantings in the event of  any plant disease, for diversity, various rates of growth, and 
more appealing view for neighbors. Three different plant materials are recommended for the fencing ; English Ivy, Virginia 
Creeper, and Climbing Hydrangeas.   
 
Reviewing Engineer Jesse Johnson of David Ross Associates noted a substantial increase in number of plantings and felt the 
new design more aesthetically pleasing.   Both Mr. Johnson and Ms. Black noted some room has to be allowed for growth.  The 
initial plantings cannot be too close to ea ch other.  Mr. Johnson noted the Board could consider a condition allowing for 
supplemental plantings to create continuous screening if not achieved in some designated time frame and to ensure perpetuity.   
 
Mr. Johnson’s review noted that the Applicant sho uld indicate if the entire fencing is to have vines planted along it.  He also 
noted the cluster planting details were omitted from the latest revised plans.  Ms. Black responded that there will be closer 
spacing behind the homes and less out in the fields .  She did a Planting Plan which shows spacing and planting locations.  If the 
cluster plantings details done by the Applicant have been left on the plans , it would have created confusion  for the landscape 
contractor. 
 
Mr. Bakaysa read the following letter into record. 
May 14, 2012 
Marion Benson, Planning Director 
Town of Lunenburg 
RE: Solar Bylaw 
Dear Marion, 
As you are aware, on May 5, 2012, the Town of Lunenburg amended their solar bylaw which now requires new dimensional setbacks for a solar 
array from abutting property lines depending upon the district and abutting districts that the solar array is located. 
Massachusetts General Law Chapter 40A: Section  6, requires that any zoning amendment that is adopted at a town meeting, shall apply to any 
building or special permit issued after the first  notification of a public hearing on any such bylaw change. Since no special permit for solar was 
required under the old bylaw and due to the fact that a building permit has yet to be applied for, I must inform you  that any solar array that 
requires a building permit under the new bylaw, must conform to the requirements of the new bylaw. If you have any questions in regards to 
this correspondence, please feel free to contact me at your convenience. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Sauvageau 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 05-14-12 
Page 2 
 
Ms. Benson noted that Town Counsel stated the new Solar Bylaw went into effect on May 5, 2012, the date of the Town Meeting 
vote.   
 
Ms. Bilotta -Simeone still has issues with the number of years it will take before th e plantings attain full growth.  Ms. Black 
reiterated that large plants are going in and it is a gradual process.  She feels in ten years the arrays will be almost tota lly 
blocked.  Mr. Lockwood felt the plan was thorough.  Mr. Bakaysa inquired of Ms. Blac k if she felt there were any additional areas 
not covered by plantings.  Ms. Black felt based on topography and current residential plantings, that the area was addressed as 
much as possible.  Mr. Saiia requested that Applicant discuss plantings with the abutting residents.  
 
Citizens noted below continue to have issues with the landscaping and screening, particularly on the West Street curve where 
the field is ascending. 
Christopher Gould, 305 Pleasant Street  
Maria Maki, 714 West Street  
Angelina Belisle, 642 West Street  
Kristin Burns, 634 West Street 
David Prokowiew, 733 West Street  inquired as to fence height.  Six feet.  Mr. Babcock noted that the standard for these projects 
is six feet. 
 
Board to prepare Findings and Directives for presentation at its next meeting. 
 
ANR- Daniel Cronin, Hillside Drive - Presented ANR Plan for 1 Turkey Hill Road.  Mr. Cronin noted Plan was filed with the 
Town Clerk, provided to the Sewer Commission and the Planning Office on May 3, 2012 for presentation at this evening’s 
meeting.  Plan is a revision of a previous ANR Plan approved by the Planning Board on March 28, 2005.  In 2008 Mr. Cronin 
applied for a building permit which was denied based on 1) insufficient street frontage on Oak Avenue for the corner lot at 2 7 
Oak Avenue.  Mr. Cronin stated that the Land Court found against the Town and ruled there was sufficient street frontage on Oak 
Avenue, and 2) lot width through the building.  Mr. Cronin stated that t he Appeals Court ruled against the Town.  Appeals Court 
ruled he could restore the pre -existing non-conforming nature of the lot.  Mr. Cronin connected 27 Oak Avenue to the sewer line 
in 2005 and also installed the sewer pipe for the back lot known as 1 Turkey Hill Road.  The sewer line is located under Parc el X 
(noted on current submitted ANR Plan) and capped on the back lot.  The Appeals Court ruled that by conveying Parcel X back to 
the present owners of 27 Oak Avenue , it would restore the pre-existing, non -conforming nature of the lot and retain a sewer 
easement.  The present owners of 27 Oak Avenue accepted the conveyance and the sewer easement was retained.  It was 
recorded 2-3 days prior to the Town Meeting vote that prohibited sewer easements.  Mr. Cronin paid connection fees in 2005 for 
the back lot and he has stayed current with fees from the Sewer Department.  Plan accepted for review.  
ANR- Alice Heikkila, 651 Chase Road - Jamie Rheault, Whitman and Bingham Associates.  ANR requested by attorney for 
anticipated solar project.  Mr. Rheault stated that w hether the parcel is deemed buildable/non -buildable to the anticipated solar 
project is irrelevant to the site.  Parcel C (non-buildable lot) may/may not be conveyed at a future time to an abutter.  Lot B 
(buildable lot) is remaining land that will stay with the s olar project.  There is no Parcel A as a previous plan was submitted on 
this property by surveyor James Gaffney  and Whitman and Bingham did not want to continue with redundant parcels.   Mr. 
Bakaysa requested that Parcel C be labeled “buildable”.  Mr. Rheau lt will bring a revised plan noting such for the next Planning 
Board meeting.  Plan accepted for review.   
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   
Noted Traffic Count Requests to MRPC for Mulpus Road at Townsend Harbor Road, Summer Street at both city lines, 
Massachusetts Avenue at WalMart, and Leominster Shirley Road at Pioneer Drive.   
Noted bulletin from the Office of Campaign and Political Finance regarding activities of public officials in support, or oppo sition of, 
ballot questions.    
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- No present report - meeting to be held this week. 
MRPC- No report 
DPW Building Committee- Committee disbanded once report was given to Board of Selectmen 
School Reconfiguration Committee- Funding request for preliminary study was approved at May 5th Town Meeting.   
Green Community Task Force- Meeting scheduled for June 6, 2012. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 05-14-12 
Page 3 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS:    
Plan Procedures- Tabled 
Verizon Wireless, 314 Sunny Hill Road -Application received for special permit modifica tion for antenna update.  Application 
currently being reviewed by Marsden Engineering.   
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront - Work continues on the villas.   Ms. Bilotta-Simeone inquired as to how many 
buildings have been completed.  Ms. Benson to follow-up. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road- License agreement regarding water supply for Building 3 on Board of Selectmen agenda for 
May 15th.   
New England Farms, 134 Leominster Shirley Road - Ms. Benson noted correspondence from the Sewer Commission 
regarding sewer review and fee.  Applicant has submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   The B oard expressed its thanks to the petitioners and citizens that attende d Town meeting for 
successfully passing the new solar bylaw.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: None 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
Due to no meeting on May 28th (holiday), Board will consider setting another meeting date prior to June 11 th. 
May 21- Master Planning Workshop, Ritter Memorial Building 
June 11- Planning Board Meeting, Town Hall 
June 18- Master Planning Workshop, Ritter Memorial Building  
June 25- Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed.  Adjourned 8:00 PM.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2012/05.14.12 