===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
October 7, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Emerick R. Bakaysa,  Nathan J. Lockwood , Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  None 
 
BOARD ENDORSEMENT:  ANR - 419 Sunny Hill Road- Motion to endorse ANR Plan, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. McQuaid, 
Plan endorsed.  At some time in the future, Board to look at Bylaw that applies to “tails”.   
 
Stone Farm Estates:  Developer represented by Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham Associates.  Developer has a four -unit 
building that he wishes to modify to a three-unit building.  Change has been reviewed by Jesse Johnson, David Ross Associates.  
Developer applied for a building permit for the three -unit building, but the Board -approved plan has a four -unit building.  Building 
Commissioner requested ver bal approval from the Planning Board before issuing building permit.   Process usually handled 
internally between the Building Commissioner and the Planning Director.  Board consensus allowed developer to move forward 
with the three-unit building.  In the future, any similar administrative changes are to come before the Board.   
 
MRPC:  Master Planning - Represented by John Hume, Chantel Fleck, and Tom Roufus.  MRPC is l ooking for input from the 
Board as to a Village Bylaw.  A study was presented to the Board  as to boosting commercial and recreational aspects with the 
Center, but to still maintain rural character of the Town.  Mr. Hume presented The Village Area Study for Lunenburg ; topic items- 
A. Introduction to the DLTA Program, B. Background for Village St udy, C. What Other Towns have done for Outreach , D. 
Common Discoveries, E. Lunenburg Zoning at a Glance, F. Site Walk, G. Local Market Potential , H. Vision for Center, I. 
Examples of Village Bylaws, and J. Next Steps (on file in the Planning Office).  Board questions:   
Mr. McQuaid wanted to know where wetlands are located in location to bank; what is developable?  
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone asked if a village bylaw is created, should the verbiage be different that the regular zoning?  Yes; as it would 
be a different bylaw. 
Mr. Bakaysa asked if MRPC recommends a Village District Bylaw or an Overlay District Bylaw.  Ms. Fleck noted w ith an overlay 
you would be adding features to the underlying existing zoning.  Totally up to the Board. 
Mr. Lockwood asked if they shou ld clean up current “uses” in the bylaw or just build on existing.  Ms. Fleck responded that the 
Board could clean up the current uses if the Board felt it wou ld help clarify the bylaw.  If the Board chooses to do that , she 
suggested they look at ALL the districts as they are all interconnected. 
Mr. Lockwood c oncerned with “walkability”  of Town Center.  Does this come under infrastructure?  Mr. Hume noted an MRPC 
program – UPWP (Unified Planning Work Program) – which includes transportation planners.  UPWP could provide a walkability 
study.  Mr. Lockwood also inquired if a parking garage in the Center would be viable?  Would grants be available? 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone asked what steps could be taken in the Leominster Shirley Road area a long the Lunenburg -Shirley line to 
generate commercial and/or industrial taxes; possibly in conjunction with Devens.  Possibly a future DLTA study? 
Mr. Allison noted his Town Center/Marshall Park proposal provided 450 parking spaces at Marshall Park.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 10.07.13 
Page 2 
 
MRPC needs the Board to define the boundaries for the Village Center.  Mr. Bakaysa opined that starting with a  smaller radius 
was better with the possibility of future expansion.  Discussion ensued; Board consensus was, northeast - Northfield Road (the 
school side) to Oak Avenue (the school side) to Massachusetts Avenue.  East - Massachusetts Avenue to North side of Whiting 
Street.  West to Stone Farm Estates.  South on Lancaster to the Gazebo/Whiting Street.  The South sides of Chestnut and 
Highland Street to Massachusetts Avenue to include the South side of Massachusetts Avenue .   
Mr. Hume noted the DLTA program ends at the beginning of December.  He anticipates another round of DLTA funding from the 
Commonwealth.  The Board of Selectmen could submit another application and MRPC could return on an “as needed” basis to 
help the Board through the village bylaw process.  MRPC will present a refined draft of a radius map to the Board next month.  
(May possibly add wetlands to the map.)  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Minutes not available for 9-23-13 and Force Corp. Information Meeting 9-23-13 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Highfield Village, Massachusetts Avenue - Extension approved to October 31, 2013 due to Board meeting dates.   Developer 
will be asked to come before the Board at the October 28 th meeting. 
 
ACTION FILE:  Citizen Survey- Survey ready to go on website.  Paper copies also available.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone requested 
Chief Sullivan be approached to put Survey information on “bo ard” by Public Safety Facility.   Mr. Lockwood was of the opinion 
that the Survey should be on Facebook.  Ms. Benson noted that the Town Manager informed her the Board of Selectmen will 
have to make a social media policy.   
 
OLD BUSINESS:  Planning Board Go als- Board will provide quarterly updates on  assigned Goals.  If any Board member feels 
they need to relate an update to the Board prior to that, may do so under Member Issues.  Mr. Lockwood made Motion to accept 
Goals for this year, Second, Mr. McQuaid, all aye. 
 
MEMBERS ISSUES: 
Mr. Lockwood noted re garding Goals, there are two sections of the  Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land  
(R&R) the Board wanted Town Counsel to look into.  Cleaning up the section that prohibits work on non -approved subdivisions.   
Board in agreement.  Mr. Lockwood made Motion to commission Kopelman & Paige and Planning Director to begin background 
research to add enforcement capability to R&R prohibiting work on non-approved subdivisions, Second, Mr. Allison, all a ye.  Mr. 
Lockwood also feels work needs to be done on the cluster bylaw, especially lot size provision.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
October 14 – no meeting – holiday 
October 28 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
November 14 – the Board will be attending a Site Plan Review seminar at MRPC 
November 25 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Reporter asked for clarification of the boundaries for the Village Center.  Board suggested s he note 
approximately ½ mile radius for the news article.  Ms. Benson noted MRPC will email that information to the Planning Office.   
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Motion, Mr. Lockwood, to enter into Executive Session for discussion of O’Brien Homes  Inc., Second, 
Mr. Bakaysa, Roll Call Vote - Mr. Allison, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Mr. McQuaid, aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, 
aye. 
 
Adjourned Regular Session 9:30 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
 
ANR Plan, 419 Sunny Hill Road 
The Village Area Study for Lunenburg 
Draft working Map Lunenburg Village District 
Highfield Village Extension Request 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes/2013/10.07.13 