===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
August 26, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  5:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Emerick R. Bakaysa (arrived late), Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, 
Marion M. Benson 
 
WORKSHOP- Planning Board Goals - Mr. Allison stated he is not satisfied with the level of disclosure on the Director’s job 
description.  He stated he asked Ms. Benson for a copy and she responded that he could not have one.  Ms. Benson noted  this 
evening they are her goals and need to be reviewed with the Town Manager.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted that Mr. A llison is 
looking for a copy  of the Planning Director’s job de scription and what the Town Manager and the Planning Director have stated 
are to be the Director’s goals.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone reiterated that Mr. Allison is not looking for Marion Benson’s job description, 
but a job description of the Planning Director for the Town of Lunenburg.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted that is public record and the 
Board can get that for him.  Mr. Allison questioned how frequently the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land  
(hereinafter referred to as R&R) should be updated.  Ms. Benson responded every ten years.  She noted she has been 
conferring with area engineers and as it is quite costly to update the R&R, the area engineers recommend that they be updated  
internally by the Planning B oard in conjunction (if necessary) with the appropriate departments.  Ms. Benson will work on 
updating sections of the R&R for Board members to review between meetings.  Mr. Allison noted that the Agricultural 
Commission would like to provide input on dete rmining if Northfield Road and Flat Hill Road meet criteria for Scenic Roads in 
Lunenburg.  Mr. McQuaid inquired as to what is the Scenic Road criteria.   Mr. Lockwood noted that #4, To Manage Growth 
Through Thorough Reviews of Development  is an ongoing pro cess with the Board.  #7 To Devise Communication Strategy for 
Citizens via Signboards, Social Media, etc.,  will also be an on -going process due to technology advancements.  Ms. Bilotta -
Simeone noted she would like to see the various committee chairs meet e very 3-4 months.  She also recommended an ad hoc  
economic development  committee to work with MRPC to help determine the avenue to bring in tourism.  Mr. Lockwood 
recommending publishing sections to facebook.com in advance for individuals’ comments/input.   Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted that 
the Board should keep track of Town owned land.  Ms. Benson noted that falls under the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee which 
was appointed by the Board of Selectmen.  Mr. Allison noted that the Town has surpassed a population of  10,000 which, under 
MGL Ch 40 Section 10, entitles it to  maintain one or more public markets ; he has brought this to the attention of the Town 
Manager.  Also, that MGL Ch 40 Section 8K discusses the formation of a mapping commission by town s by by -law.  M r. 
McQuaid asked who coordinated GIS.  Ms. Benson responded the IT Director and Assessor.  Ms. Benson to type up 
assignments as follows for next Board meeting for approval. 
 
BOARD GOALS: 
Six (6) CATEGORIES 
 Housing 
 Community and Recreation 
 Communication 
 Economics – Center/other areas 
 Agricultural 
 Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 08.26.13 
Page 2 
 
1.  Responsibility-Assignment: BOARD 
To fulfill the above statutory requirements under the policies of the Planning Board.  
2. Responsibility-Assignment: BOARD   
To continue updating the Master Plan. 
3. Responsibility-Assignment: BOARD      
To bring forth new bylaws and/or regulations for the protection of the Town by developing communication links and process and  
procedures. 
4. Responsibility-Assignment: BOARD   
To manage growth through thorough reviews of development. 
5. Responsibility-Assignment: TOBY BAKAYSA 
To continue to update the Planning Board’s Procedures and Policies. 
6. Responsibility-Assignment: NATHAN LOCKWOOD 
To continue to increase communication to all governmental bodies and to citizens of the community. 
7. Responsibility-Assignment: NATHAN LOCKWOOD 
To devise communication strategy for citizens via signboards, social media, etc. 
8. Responsibility-Assignment: DAMON McQUAID 
To preserve Town Center. 
9. Responsibility-Assignment: JOANNA BILOTTA-SIMEONE 
To determine an avenue to bring in tourism, yet still maintain rural atmosphere. 
10. A. Responsibility-Assignment: NATHAN LOCKWOOD  
  Residential development 
10. B. Responsibility-Assignment: JOANNA BILOTTA-SIMEONE 
To form an economic development sub-group to devise ways to increase affordable and senior housing. 
11. Responsibility-Assignment: MATTHEW ALLISON 
Determine what the Board needs to do from a zoning perspective to encourage both citizens and developer s to purchase “local”, 
e.g., Farmers’ Market. 
12. Responsibility-Assignment: JOANNA BILOTTA-SIMEONE 
Determine how to bring in more commercial development, e.g., solar farms to provide additional revenue to town.       
13. Responsibility-Assignment: TOBY BAKAYSA 
Update the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land to include a reviewing engineer checklist.  This checklist will be 
reviewed annually by the Board.   
14. Responsibility-Assignment: JOANNA BILOTTA-SIMEONE 
Determine incentives for existing commercial properties for site improvement. 
15. Responsibility-Assignment: MATTHEW ALLISON 
Determine ways to expand the Agricultural Preservation Restriction Program. 
16. Responsibility-Assignment: JOANNA BILOTTA-SIMEONE 
Economics-Determine incentives for small businesses to locate in Lunenburg. 
17. Responsibility-Assignment:  JOANNA BILOTTA-SIMEONE 
Determine incentives to attract summer activities to Lunenburg. 
 
PRESENTATION- School Building Committee -  Board briefed by School Building Committee in conjunction with Lunenbur g 
School Committee.  PowerPoint presentation by Michael Mackin, School Committee as follows:   
High School Existing Conditions Feedback from NEASC 
High School Existing Building Condition 
High School Existing Building Capacity 
Educational Vision/Goals 
Proposed District-Wide Building Configuration 
Collaborative Process 
Milestone Schedule 
Preliminary Options Studied 
Conceptual Construction Phasing Plan 
Schematic Design Perspective Massing from the South West 
Schematic Design Perspective Administration and High School Classroom Wing 
Schematic Design Perspective Main Entry 
Schematic Design Perspective Media Center and Greenhouse 
Schematic Design Perspective Middle School Classroom Wing 
Stay Connected to the Project 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 08.26.13 
Page 3 
 
The Committees hope t o come to either a December 2013 or January 2014 special town meeting with a total cost estimate and 
seek support of the voters.  If the article passes, projected begin date for construction is mid fall 2014.  The new school w ould 
open at the beginning of the September 2016 school year.   In fall 2016 the existing high school would be demolished.   
 
Charles Hay, Architect for Tappe Associates gave an overview of the schematic design perspective.  It will be a sustainable, 
green building.   
 
Board questions –  
Mr. Allison inquired as to a capacity analysis or any road improvements on Oak Avenue.  Mr. Hay noted no full traffic study d one.  
As it is a low volume roadway, a traffic study would only be beneficial if there is an assumption that a signal would be r equired.  
He noted that the MSBA will reimburse the Town over 50% of the project costs, but does not reimburse communities for any off -
site improvements.  Mr. Bakaysa asked if there would be student parking on the upper level.  Mr. Hay noted that is an 
administrative question, but the concept is no.  The concept is that students will get a permit and be in the student lot.  Parking 
adjacent to the Passios is being held in abeyance as the future of the Passios is unknown.  Mr. Bakaysa also inquired if there 
was sidewalk access from both Mass Ave and Oak Ave.  Yes.  Also, if the Passios is done away with, is there any consideration 
to put a second gymnasium in the new building?  Mr. Mackin noted in addition to the large gym, there are two large spaces that 
could be used for exercise, dance, aerobics, etc.   Another community gym is not part of the pro ject.  The gym is designed to 
MSBA specifications.  Mr. McQuaid also concerned with location and quantity of parking.  Mr. Bakaysa inquired if the existing 
lights on the football field would be re -used.  Possibly some of them.  Renovate/new tennis courts?  Probably.  Ms. Benson 
inquired if the gymnasium can be divided .  There is a net divider that splits the gymnasium into two sections.  It will also have 
separate locker rooms for middle and high school students.  Ms. Benson noted citizens have asked her when they will be voting 
on the new school.  Mr. Mackin noted it will go to a fall town meeting.  Mr. Allison inquired if  student numbers incorporated that 
will account for possible new development within the Town.  Yes.   
 
This will be both a town meeting and then a ballot question. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  8-12-13, Motion to approve  minutes as amended , Mr. Lockwood,  Second, Mr. McQuaid .  Minutes 
signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, Mr. Allison-   No August meeting. 
MRPC, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone-   Meeting to be held August 27th.   
School Building Committee, Mr. Lockwood- Meeting to be held August 27th.   
Building Reuse Committee, Mr. McQuaid -  Committee has toured Passios.  Mr. L onda noted current uses – FLLAC 
Collaborative, Lunenburg Cable, some school administrative offices.  Building in decent condition.  Building has asbestos.   
Capital Planning Committee, Ms. Benson-   Packet will be sent to departments on September 3rd.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
300 W. Holman & 300 Holman St-   No present action.  
Public Document Access-  Process ongoing with IT Director.   
MRPC- Packets distributed to members on Village Area Study and Downtown Zo ning Repair.  It was noted that the Town is not 
paying MRPC to do the DLTA; MRPC is paid by the State.    
Force Corp., 305 Leominster Shirley Rd-   Applicant has received a use permit from the ZBA.   A DPR needs to be done for the 
new building.  Office is still waiting for the complete application submittal. 
Ryan & Amy Lazaro, 617 Leominster Road-   No report 
White Tail Crossing-   No report 
Stone Farm Estates- No report 
Highfield Village, Massachusetts Avenue- No report 
Mobil Station, Leominster Shirley Road- Work continues.  Vendors will be Mobil, Dunkin’ Donuts and Honey Farms.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Weekly update provided to Board members 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road - State required reports completed.  Town does not qualify for 40S reimbursement .  Mr. 
Bakaysa requested the “formula” for qualification.   
Whalom Road LLC/Lunenburg Village- Noted ZBA continuance to August 28th.   
Whites Woods, Phase III, White Street- No report 
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes 08.26.13 
Page 4 
 
Medical Marijuana Clinic-   Sample bylaw provided to Board members previously.  Special town meeting may not be held until 
January-February 2014 timeframe.  Board looking for a moratorium at this time.   
Fee Schedule Update- No update.  Board inquired as to annual fees of both Shirley and Harvard.   
 
ACTION FILE: 
Citizen Survey- Survey revised to include question on a marijuana clinic and to include defi nition of CPA.  In process with IT 
Director.  Ms. Benson will conduct seminars with seniors at the Eagle House. 
DPW Request for Service Form - Noted if there are questions on Town roadways, form is available for completion on DPW 
website.   
Permit Extension Act-Scanned to Board members. 
Town Land Acquisition for Town Beach- Previously submitted to Board members. 
Town Center- Previously submitted to Board members.  Ms. Benson recommended it be included in the Board Goals.   
Lunenburg Hazard Mitigation Plan Update- Previously submitted to Board members.  Mr. Allison quoted a portion of the matrix 
located on pg. 84, “The Planning Board is reviewing Zoning By laws and regulations to determine the best way to accomplish all 
Flood Related Hazards m itigations.”  Ms. Benson noted that the Board should review the Lunenburg Hazard Mitigation Plan  
Update and decide if they want to take any action.  Board to discuss at its September 9th meeting. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
September 9 – 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
September 23 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
Mr. Allison inquired if an Order of Conditions was issued for the mobil station at 134 Leominster Shirley Road.  Ms. Benson will 
provide him with the Approval.  He also noted that the PDF copy he received of same did not have Planning Board signatures 
and that it contained numerous errors.  Mr. Bakaysa responded that the Board does not sign design plans; they s ign plans for the 
subdivision of land.  The Board signs the Findings and Directives for design plans.   
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted that individual Board members cannot task Ms. Benson without Board direction.   
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Board did not go into Executive Session 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn, Mr. Allison, Second, Mr. Lockwood, adjourned 7:45 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Planning Board Goals 
MRPC Documents 
Citizen Survey 
DPW Request for Service Form 
Permit Extension Act 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom Weekly Update 
Fee Schedule Research 
 
 
 
Video recording on file. 
 
Minutes/2013/08.26.13 