===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
October 28, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Emerick R. Bakaysa,  Nathan J. Lockwood , Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Benson noted that the Board’s previous consultant, Carol Thomas, celebrated her 90th birthday.  Ms. 
Thomas has been invited by Harvard University to present her papers.  Part of Lunenburg’s history will be included in those 
papers. 
 
Highfield Village- Project Engineer Kent Oldfield provided copies of most recent MEPA (Massachusett s Environmental Policy 
Act) Certificate as a result of the draft EIR (Environmental Impact Report).  Sewer Commission has sent s ewer plans to Weston 
& Sampson for review.  Applicant plans to submit final EIR the first week of November .  Mr. Allison noted that he did not feel the 
plans he was viewing were appropriate for a definitive submittal.  Mr. Oldfield noted Mr. Allison was not looking at a definitive 
plan, but an overview that was presented to the Board at its August 12, 2013 meeting .  Mr. Oldfield wi ll pdf Definitive to Ms. 
Benson and she will forward to Mr. Allison.  The developer Mr. Smith noted the plan has gone through several iterations over the 
years.  Mr. Allison is not happy with all the extensions given to the project.  The Applicant is hoping to have approval from  the 
Sewer Commission within a couple of weeks.  Mr. Lockwood inquired if there would be any public hearing through the Board; 
Ms. Benson responded that the Board already held a public hearing and approved the project.  Motion for extension approval to 
January 31, 2014, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. McQuaid, Roll Call Vote - Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Mr. McQuaid, 
aye; Mr. Allison, nay; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye.  Motion passed 4-1. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Motion to approve 10-7-13, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Bakaysa .  Motion to  approve 9-23-13, Mr. 
Lockwood, Second Mr. Allison .  Motion to approve Force Corp. Information Meeting 9 -23-13, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. 
McQuaid. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, Mr. Allison-   No meeting 
MRPC, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone-   Will meet 10-30-13 
School Building Committee, Mr. Lockwood - Mr. Lockwood also on a sub -committee to look at cost estimation of the 
schematic design.  Committee going back to MSBA for final review of estimate.  Public forum being held Wednes day, October 
30th, Lunenburg High School.  Ms. Benson noted Smart Growth information provided to School Superintendent.  Mr. Allison 
inquired if the proposed greenhouse was included in the state reimbursement.  No, Town bears entire expense of approximatel y 
$350,000.00.  Mr. Allison noted t he Agricultural Commission felt it was not functional for the cost.  The School Building 
Committee is aware and in discussions with AgCom.  Figures were provided regarding possible tax es to residents.  Median cost 
of home  $250-280,000 – would pay $525/yr in increased tax on 30 -yr financing ; $650/yr on 20 -yr financing.  Mr. Bakaysa 
concerned with long term property management and doing appropriate repairs when they need to be done.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 10-28-13 
Page 2 
 
Building Reuse Committee, Mr. McQuaid-  Updated the Committee with MRPC’s presentation to the Board on possible Village 
District as the Committee would want to know the zoning for the Town Center.  The Board is not for spot zoning.  Would an 
Overlay District be possibi lity?  Committee feels Eagle House should remain, possibly sell Ritter (refurbish Town Hall for Ritter 
staff), fix Town Hall for continued Town offices.  New school has not provided for housing school administrative staff currently 
located in Passios and B rooks House.  Mr. Lockwood noted that a town cannot be subject to 40R unless it meets Safe Harbor 
criteria.  To meet it, 10% of units would be classified as affordable.  In terms of counting units against the cap, you can g o a lot 
further with rentals than  ownership.  He opined that the Board should take this into consideration for the Center.  Ms. Benson 
noted that the construction of Buildings 4, 5, and 6 at Tri Town Landing are on hold as the state is not currently providing 
support.  More investigation of Safe Harbor criteria is necessary.   
Capital Planning Committee, Ms. Benson-    Committee meeting October 30th with presentation from the DPW Director.    
Green Community Task Force, Ms. Benson - Criteria has been met for Lunenburg to be a Green Communit y.  Draft letter 
prepared for Town Counsel confirming same.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted that the Board of Selectmen voted to change the Task 
Force from a seven- to a five- member Task Force.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REP ORTS: 
Force Corp., 305 Leominster Shirley Road- Office still awaiting revised plans per peer review. 
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue- Noted weekly progress reports. 
Mobil Station, Leominster Shirley Road-   As Built received and reviewed.  Project relea sed for opening.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone 
noted will be open 365 days/year, 24/7.   
615/617 Leominster Road - Application received to separate  an existing common driveway  into two new driveway entrances to 
existing residences.  This will involve creating a new curb cut and modifying the existing one.   There is an existing business at 
615 Leominster Road that generate s additional traffic on the common drive.  The proposed work will separate the driveways and 
significantly increase the safety to 617 Leominster Roa d.  A public hearing will be held at the November 25, 2013 Board meeting 
(at Town Hall if available).  Mr. Bakaysa inquired as to the business at 615 Leominster Road.   
35 Leominster Road- Mr. Sauvageau, Building Commissioner/Zoning Official extended the b uilding permit to an expiration date 
of December 31, 201 4.  Board discussion ensued; Mr. Bakaysa noted that the Special Permit was given by the Board and that 
the Directives stated the “…Applicant shall complete construction of barn…by October 31, 2013…”  Should request have come 
to Board for approval/disapproval prior to Building Official issuing extension?  Ms. Benson to inquire of Mr. Sauvageau.   
Citizen Survey - Survey available on line and at various locations throughout Lunenburg.  Ms. Benson spoke wi th Town 
Manager.  Town Manager will publicize via voicemail message through Blackboard Connect.   
40R Density Bonus Payment - Payment Contract signed and executed between DHCD and the Town of Lunenburg.  Town 
Manager anticipates funds to follow.   
621 Chase  Road-  New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC ( AT&T) applying for building permit for installation of transmission 
equipment on the existing tower and  within the existing equipment compound.  Section 6409 of the federal Middle Class Tax 
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012  states that “…simple collocations and/or equipment upgrades…must now be approved with 
the issuance of a building permit”.  “a State or local government may not deny, and shall approve, any eligible facilities re quest 
for a modification of an exi sting wireless tower or based station that does not substantially change the physical dimensions of 
such tower or base station”.   
270 Electric Avenue- Same as noted above for 621 Chase Road. 
 
ACTION FILE: 
Medical Marijuana  Clinic-  Ms. Benson to provide d raft moratorium warrant article for November 25 th Board meeting .  Ms. 
Benson also to research Sunset Clause.   
MRPC Trail Inventory Update- Provided to Board. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
November 14- Board to MRPC 
November 25- Scenic Road Public Hearing followed by Board meeting   
 
Ms. Benson noted scheduled meeting regarding Holman Street property.  Mr. Bakaysa to represent Board in negotiations. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 10-28-13 
Page 3 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Mr. Allison requested to go into Executive Session in response to a pre vious Executive Session.   
Discussion ensued.  Motion to leave Regular Session, enter into Executive Session, not to return to Regular Session, Mr. Allison, 
Second, Mr. Lockwood , Roll Call Vote - Mr. Allison, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Mr. McQuaid, aye; Mr. Loc kwood, aye; Ms. Bilotta -
Simeone, aye.  Separate minutes. 
 
Adjourned Regular Session 8:20 PM. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 10-7-13 
Minutes 9-23-13 
Minutes Force Corp. Information Meeting 9-23-13 
Highfield Village MEPA Certificate 
Whites Woods Weekly Progress Reports 
Mobil Station Weekly Progress Reports 
Mobil Station Letter of Release 
Scenic Road Application- 615/517 Leominster Road 
35 Leominster Road- Building Permit Extension 
40R Density Bonus Payment Contract  
621 Chase Road-  New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC (AT&T), Building Permit Application 
270 Electric Avenue- New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC (AT&T), Building Permit Application 
MRPC Trail Inventory Update 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2013/10.28.13 