===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Damon McQuaid, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
May 13, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa 
 
Ms. Benson noted the Complaint filed May 9, 2013 with the Lunenburg Town Clerk,  O’Brien Homes Inc., Plaintiff v. Town of 
Lunenburg and Planning Board for the Town of Lunenburg, Defendants. 
 
Board noted the two new members, Damon McQuaid and Matthew Allison.  
 
BOARD REORGANIZATION: Did not take place due to Chair Bakaysa’s absence. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  The following minutes were signed. 
4-8-13, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. McQuaid 
4-8-13, 35 Leominster Road Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone  
4-10-13, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone 
4-10-13, Aro Estates Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone 
4-13-13, Aro Estates Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone  
4-20-13, Aro Estates Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Meeting scheduled for May 14, 2013.  
MRPC- No current Board representative. 
School Building Committee-   Televised meetings have been held to discuss preferred Options.  The Board of Selectmen and 
School Building Committee voted for the 6 -12 new build.  Ms. Benson noted email from SelectBoard Chair noting they started 
discussion about what they would do if TC Passios is deemed surplus by the School Building Committee and School Committee.  
Capital Planning Commit tee- Ms. Benson, as Capital Planning Committee Chair, noted Plan passed at May 2013 Town 
Meeting.  Committee will meet May 16th to review its process.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
APR- State still in negotiations with the Lanni and Pierce properties.   
Agricultural Commission- Commission was approved at May 2013 Town Meeting and hopes to present a Right To Farm Bylaw 
for Fall Special Town Meeting.  
New England Farms, Leominster -Shirley Road- Board approved Modifica tion at its April 22 nd meeting.  Digging taking place 
on site; may be due to Tennessee Gas requirements.  Planning Director will request Reviewing Engineer check.    
===PAGE 2===
 
Planning Board Minutes 05.13.13 
Page 2 
 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom - Site inspection re port noted berm damage from plowing, roadway “potholes”, and pavement 
and curbing needing repair.  Ms. Benson met with Jack Sullivan, Principal.  He noted that three more villas will be built then 
building will be put on hold.  The structures on the beach and Rose Garden Road ( approximately 13 units) will not be built until 
the market improves. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road - Work continues with weekly reports being provided to the Planning Office.  Mr. Lockwood 
inquired as to current status on zoning incentive payments from the State.  Ms. Benson noted that is handled between the State 
and the Town Manager. 
Asian Imperial, Electric Avenue -  Patrons are accessing the restaurant via the emergency ingress located on Massachusetts 
Avenue.  The Zoning Board of Appeals Certificate issued in July 2011 noted that the Massachusetts Avenue side would be gated 
to traffic.  Fire Chief Sullivan does not support closing the Massachusetts Avenue side ; he opined that if it is gated, patrons will 
park in front of the gate.  F inal decision will rest with the Zoning Board of Appeals. There is also a minor issue  with number of 
parking spaces which is currently being reviewed  by the Building/Zoning Official and the Reviewing Engineer.   The Applicant is 
hoping to purchase adjacent land for parking. 
Solar Status- Noted May 2, 2013 Telegram and Gazet te article stating Gov. Patrick’s administration set a new goal of 1,600 
megawatts of solar energy in Massachusetts by the year 2020.  Ms. Benson also noted negotiations for change in owne rship for 
the Chase Road project.  At the present time, new owner not looking to build anything other than what the Planning Board 
already approved for MASS PV1.  Mr. Lockwood inquired if, when Chapter Land comes up for Right of First Refusal and the 
Town purchases, is use restricted to only conservation use, or can it be used for solar installations.  Ms. Benson will inquire of  
Town Counsel.   
Marijuana Clinic Status- Noted Sentinel and Enterprise article stating Massachusetts officials approved final regu lations for the 
use of medical marijuana, but that it will be up to State officials to develop specific rules and procedures.   
Zoning Legislation- Noted MassPlanners will be holding their hearing on House Bill #1859 (zoning reform) on May 14, 2013 at 
the State House.   
MRPC- 
Traffic Counts- Applying for traffic count at intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Goodrich Street. 
Contract- Applied for District Local Technical Assistance ( DLTA) services related to investigating/researching and working to 
adopt a m ixed use Village District Bylaw  as noted in the DLTA .  A DLTA is already approved for Master Plan work on the 
Economic Development Element. 
Committee- A Master Plan Committee needs to be formed , either with  only Planning Board members, or both Planning Boa rd 
members and citizens-at-large.  Decision will be deferred until Chair Bakaysa is available for discussion.  
Scope of Work- MRPC presentation to the Board on June 10, 2013. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  1) Open Space Conference, June 8, 2013, Ashburnham MA.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
The next meeting date was not set.  There was discussion of a short meeting for the purpose of Board Reorganization.  Ms. 
Benson will not be available the week of May 26 th.  Ms. Benson to check on availability of Chair Bakaysa fo r a meeting May 28, 
29, or 30th.   
June 10 – 6:30 PM, Town Hall – Whites Woods Hearing followed by regular meeting 
June 24 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
BOARD COMMENTS:  As a member of the Historical Commission, Mr. McQuaid is interested in Center planning that the Board 
will be working on in conjunction with MRPC.  Mr. Lockwood requested an update on status of primary school for elderly housing .  
Ms. Benson updated the public hearing process and informed the Board of same.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  7:50 PM 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2013/05.13.13 