===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
November 10, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
 
PUBLIC HEARING: Highfield Village- see separate minutes 
PUBLIC HEARING (cont’d): 322 Flat Hill Community Solar - See separate minu tes.  Motion, N. Lockwood to approve the 
project with significant conditions to be discussed, Second, K. Chenis. 
Conditions to be placed in approval: 
K. Chenis- That the sound is not disruptive.  Address all engineer review comments.  
D. McQuaid- Even though he felt there were no significant safety or noise issues, he could not support the projec t due to the 
strong opposition from the abutters and the lack of a 200’ buffer strip.   
N. Lockwood- Project meets criteria for special permit.  It will be located in Zone 2.  Can the offset be increased by moving site 
closer to the shade line?  Possible fencing? 
J. Bilotta-Simeone- The Zoning Board of Appeals approved the size and setback.  If relocated to Zone 2, will M. Conway have to 
go back to the ZBA?  Condition a noise study.   
K. Chenis noted MGL Ch 40A, Section 3, “no zoning ordinance…shall prohibi t or unreasonably regulate the installation of solar 
energy systems…except where necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare.”   
N. Lockwood amended his Motion to include the conditions noted above plus the property cannot be subdivided for the life of the 
solar, Second, K. Chenis. 
 
N. Lockwood noted the comment made by T. Alonzo at the Hearing as to his editorial in the Ledger  and that he  conferred with 
Town Counsel prior to submitting his letter to the newspaper. 
 
M. Conway requested if he could withdraw his application.  Attorney Troyer opined it would be a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law to withdraw at this point after the Hearing has closed.  If the Special Permit is denied by the Board, it will afford two years of 
protection to the abutters. 
 
Motion N. Lockwood to consider acceptance of  withdrawal of application, Second, K. Chenis, discussion, D. McQuaid opined it 
would be a disservice to the citizens to withdraw at this point after the funds and time expended.  J. Bilotta -Simeone opined that 
M. Conway should have the opportunity to revise his application and return to the Board.   
 
N. Lockwood chose to keep his original Motion. 
 
VOTE 
Kenneth Chenis, aye 
Damon McQuaid, nay 
Nathan Lockwood, aye 
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, abstain 
The project was denied by the fact of a failed vote.   
Decision will be prepared for Board signature and filing at Registry of Deeds.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11.10.14 
Page 2 
 
265 Pleasant Street Solar -  Eric Aubrey, Gehrlicher Solar America Corp., presented updated information to t he Board in 
response to the Board’s request of April 28, 2014 regarding the three additional utility poles.  Unitil has loosened its requ irement 
for the poles and NuGen was able to relocate the poles within the existing tree line.  Unitil will not allow a change in the 
equipment located on the first two poles due to safety reasons discussed in the 4/28/14 meeting.  The equipment to be moved 
from the poles to concrete pads would be the utility meter and system disconnect.  Changing to pad mounted equipment w ould 
only remove one pole of the four.  Celeste McCain -Stober, 275 Pleasant Street, speaking on behalf of the abutters, noted that 
the abutters have viewed the poles and opined that they now blend in.  NuGen is asking approval to keep poles as is v. pad 
mounting.  NuGen will submit a letter to the Board requesting an administrative change to the Approval citing Unitil’s conditions.  
 
J. Bilotta-Simeone noted to David Milner, NuGen, that vegetation needs to be fixed at both the Pleasant Street and Chase Road 
sites.  D. Milner responded that anything dead will be replaced.  J. Bilotta-Simeone questioned that if the array is visible through 
the vegetation, is it a planting issue or a bylaw issue?  Eric Aubrey noted that you do not plant 25’ trees at a site.  Fiv e to eight 
foot evergreen trees are being planted.  Instant buffering cannot be provided.   Trees have to be separated; cannot be planted 
right next to each other – if so, they will grow into each other and die.     
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    
All minutes signed 
10-20-14 Master Planning Workshop, Motion D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
10-27-14, Motion D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
10-27-14 322 Flat Hill Community Solar, Motion D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   no meeting 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone-  Committee met with Fire Chief and reviewed his requests. 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-   no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  no report 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-   Committee met week of 11/3/14.  Discussed possible restoration of Town Hall. 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  meeting scheduled for 11/19/14 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison-  no meeting 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue-  Noted developer requesting road inspection 
Highfield Village- Board approved extension to February 9, 2014 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road - Noted progress report.   Conservation Commission has Notices of Intent for Lots 5, 
6, and 7 for their November 19th meeting. 
White Tail Crossing-   Noted developer requesting road inspection 
909 Massachusetts Avenue- no report 
Tri Town Landing-   no report   
MS/HS Project- no report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report  
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-  no report  
651 Chase Road Solar-   no report 
265 Pleasant Street Solar-  no report 
 
ACTION FILE:  
Village District Bylaw- Revised draft provided to Board.  Board members to review and provide comments to A. Burney.  Will be 
placed on the November 24th agenda.   
Scenic Road- A. Burney to put warrant article together prior to May Town Meeting 
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments -  Zoning Board of Appeals hearing has closed.  Discussion will continue at 
12/10/14 ZBA meeting. 
Master Planning - Economic Development Element - A. Burney to contact various Boards, Commissions , i.e., Finance 
Committee, Sewer Commission, Boar d of Selectmen , Conservation Commission, Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, Historical 
Commission, for comments.  Will also talk to same about the master plan purpose and vision. 
40 Leominster Shirley Road- no report 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 11.10.14 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
November 24, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
December 8, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
December 22, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  Board members voiced dis pleasure with not receiving discussion items in a timely manner from engineers, 
developers, etc.  Board policy will be developed noting a deadline for materials being supplied prior to Board meetings.  
 
ADJOURNED: 10:25 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes-10-20-14 Master Planning Workshop, 10-27-14, 10-27-14 322 Flat Hill Community Solar  
50 Elmwood Road Progress Form 
Letter, Gehrlicher Solar America Corp., dtd 11/4/14 
Draft Village District Bylaw 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/11.10.14 