===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
December 22, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
 
ANR- Mahoney Family Trust and Steven Mastrangelo, 26/30/34 Laurel Lane, James E. Gaffney Co. -  Plan presented by 
James E. Gaffney Co.  Purpose is to divide house no. 30 (Lot 2) and 34 (Lot 1) which are located on one lo t.  The remaining land 
(dogleg parcel) is not considered a building lot.   A Zoning Board of Appeals  (ZBA) dimensional variation was approved 
December 10, 2014 for the creation of Lots 1 and 2.  ZBA Decision will have to go through the 20 -day appeal period .  Both 
existing houses are on Town sewer.  Plan will be distributed for department/commission/board review. 
 
ANR- Szocik Revocable Family Trust, 545 Massachusetts Avenue:   Plan was not endorsed  by the Board.  An old septic 
system is located on both properties and the applicant has to submit a Title 5 inspection under 310CMR15.010(2) indicating that 
both properties are in compliance.  As the Board does not meet again until January 12, 2015 that would take the ANR Plan past 
the statutory 21 days for Board action from its December 8, 2014 submittal.  A. Burney has spoken with the applicant’s engineer 
who is working towards the Title 5 compliance.  Once that is obtained, the applicant can resubmit the ANR.  Motion N. Lockwood 
to deny endorsement, but waive filing fee upon resubmittal, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye.  A. Burney to notify applicant.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    
12/8/14, Motion, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid, minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-  Has not met since last Board meeting. 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta -Simeone- Committee toured THMS to look at roofing, new flooring, and moving district 
office from TC Passios to THMS.  Committee will be meeting January 6 th to continue prioritization. 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-  Prior discussion as to a parking lot being considered north of TC Passios to offset 
what the school thought they might lose with the Passios is  no longer being considered.  A. Burney noted that the school won’t 
be creating the ANR parcel until t he new school is open and operating; the School Committee  and School Superintendent are  
currently working on a  conceptual line and sketch .  A. Burney noted that TC Passios won’t be declared surplus until the new 
school is operational and that once it is declared surplus the school ceases to have control and it reverts back to  the Town.  
Board members would like  a joint meeting with the Board of Selectmen, School Committee, and Planning Board.  A. Burney 
noted that the meeting should be between the School Committee and Building Reuse Committee and not the Planning Board ; 
interested Planning Board members should attend a School Committee Meeting .  Board would like a formal request to go to the 
School Committee as to the intent of the line.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  No meeting.        
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid -    No meeting since last Board meeting.  J. Bilotta-Simeone questioned the district 
office being located within a Town building instead of THMS.  D. McQuaid noted that question was previously raised, but it is not 
an active part of what the Committee is analyzing.   
MJTC, K. Chenis-  Next meeting 1/21/15.  
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison -  Meeting held 12/18/14 with a good turnout.   Some progress made with discussion of a 
year-round market; positive feedback.     
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 12.22.14 
Page 2 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
White Tail Crossing-    Planning Board needs to submit a report to the Board of Selectmen for the layout hearing on the metes 
and bounds of  the right of way.  Outstanding Issues have bee n resolved with loam  and seeding to take  in the spring.  N. 
Lockwood Motion to send report to the Board of Selectmen in favor of layout, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye.  
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue-  no report     
Highfield Village- no report 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- no report   
909 Massachusetts Avenue- Board Decision filed with Registry. 
Tri Town Landing-  no report 
MS/HS Project- no report   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report  
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-   no report  
 
ACTION FILE:  
Housing Production Plan  (HPP)- Board of Selectmen approved the draft HPP with the addition of Select Board member P. 
Bertram’s comments, which A. Burney noted to the Board.  A. Burney to send P . Bertram’s comments to the Board.  Board 
members will take a vote at their January 12, 2015 meeting as to the HPP being sent to the state.    
Village District Bylaw-   Continued discussion.  Draft 5 reviewed.   
Preamble added 
Purpose – no change 
2. Establishment – no change 
3. Definitions – Bed & Breakfast- change a) to read- “The dwelling is owner occupied”. 
4. Authority – no change 
5. Use Provisions 
 7) and 8)- change 2,500 to 5,000  
 C.2) – it was noted that some retail operations in Town are more than 5 ,000 square feet; A. Burney noted that 
individuals can go before the Zoning Board of Appeals for dimensional variation .  Change “individual floor” to read 
“individual retail operation”. 
 add B. 9)- “commercial uses with more than 5,000 square feet” 
 Board discussion regarding “single family homes” in B.1) and C.1) – will get resident feedback at public meetings. 
 1)- add “containing less than 5,000 square feet” 
6. Dimensional Requirements – A.- “interior setback” change from 20 to 10 feet. 
7. Parking Requirements 
 Bed & Breakfast- add in staff parking 
 Artists Space- change “1 parking space per dwelling unit” to “2 parking spaces per dwelling unit” 
 Private Club- change to “1 parking space per 4 seats” 
 A.1)- edit to note that if bicycle racks are included up to (50%) of the requirements…may be waived… 
8. Design Standards – no change 
Signs – no change 
Site Design – no change 
9. Village District Campus Developments – change to Village Center District Campus Developments 
9.1)(a) – N. Lockwood questioned the 60% transpa rency.  K. Chenis noted that it applies to campus construction of new 
buildings. 
 
A handout will be available at Town Meeting for the residents to understand the various iterations the Village Center Distric t has 
gone through prior to Town Meeting.   Once the proposed bylaw has been finalized it will be uploaded to the Town’s web.  J. 
Bilotta-Simeone requested notice be sent to owners of all parcels within the proposed district referring them to the Town’s 
website. 
 
A. Burney will add to the special permit s ection by laying out the criteria .  Draft 5 will be updated with finals edits for the Board’s 
January 12, 2015 meeting.  The January 26 th meeting will emphasize a listening session for the citizens with notices being sent 
to all parcel owners within the proposed district.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 12.22.14 
Page 3 
 
Select Board members Robert Ebersole and Paula Bertram voiced their concern with unintended consequences, e.g., 60% 
transparency; photos should be available showing 60% transparency noting that depending on the situation, it could be either 
desirable or undesirable, yet still  meet the standards.  Could the demolition delay bylaw be strengthened?  A. Burney noted that 
the Historical Commission is working on an architectural preservation district in the hopes that it will placed on the May 2015 
Town Meeting warrant.  The Historical Commission will provide its initial draft to A. Burney for input.  
322 Flat Hill Community Solar-  Appeal period concluded with no appeal filed.  Decision needs to be filed with Registry. 
Scenic Road- no report   
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments -  Zoning Board of Appeals approved project.  Decision being finalized with 
Counsel.  Agreement with Board of Selectmen on privilege fee.   
Master Planning- Economic Development Element- no report   
40 Leominster Shirley Road- no report 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
January 12, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
January 26, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   
K. Chenis noted that when meetings are televised, make sure no copyright material is used. 
J. Bilotta-Simeone noted that Lunenburg Flowers and Gifts just opened. 
 
ADJOURNED:   9:06 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR, 26/30/34 Laurel Lane 
ANR, 545 Massachusetts Avenue 
Minutes 12-08-14 
Draft Housing Production Plan 
Draft Village District Bylaw 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/12.22.14 