===PAGE 1===
 
INITIALS _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Information Meeting (cont’d) 
1259 Massachusetts Avenue 
August 25, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison 
 
Initial Information Meeting held on August 11, 2014 to hear and discuss a Development Plan Review under Section 8.4. of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenbur g for use of current medical office building, combined with a metal storage barn for 
landscaping supplies and vehicles.  Information Meeting was continued to this date. 
 
Applicant represented by project engineer Jonathan Markey, Markey and Rubin.  J. Markey went  through Whitman & Bingham 
Associates (WBA) review letter (on file in Planning Office) of August 24 th.  K. Chenis inquired of pesticide storage and would any 
end up on property pavement; no - would be stored and loaded inside building.  Reviewing Engineer Anthony Cleaves, WBA 
noted J. Markey touched upon all review comments that had not been completely addressed  previously.  J. Bilotta -Simeone 
inquired if this is considered multi -use.  J. Markey noted that approval was obtained from the Zoning Board of Appe als.   J. 
Markey went through Waiver Request letter (on file in Planning Office).  He noted that the waivers requested run with the 
intended use of the site and not the site itself (any change of use would require the applicant to return before the Board f or a new 
development plan review).  A. Cleaves recommended detail be shown on plan of catch basin construction as applicant is 
requesting waiver from three feet of cover.   
 
Board voted on Waivers.   
 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg Section 6.1.2.1. 
Motion N. Lockwood to approve based on no more than two cars , Second D. McQuaid.  Directives to note if more than two 
vehicles, will come before Planning Board.  All aye. 
 
Motion N. Lockwood for Directive to require loading/unloading of hazardous mater ials, e.g. pesticides, fertilizer, etc. will be done 
inside.  No particulate matter in parking lot.  Second K. Chenis. All aye. 
 
Bylaw Section 6.1.2.5. and Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land Section 5.2.3.1.  
Motion N. Lockwood to approve, Second D. McQuaid, all aye. 
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Information Meeting (cont’d) 
1259 Massachusetts Avenue 
Page 2 
 
Bylaw Sections 6.4.3.5. , Section 6.4., and Section 8.4.4.1.a)3 
Motion N. Lockwood to approve, Second D. McQuaid, Discussion - M. Allison request ed Waivers be separated.  M. Allison 
opined pavement width should be wider than the existing 22 feet.   D. McQuaid, K. Chenis and N. Lockwood opined that would 
not be necessary with increase of traffic.   
 
Bylaw Section 6.4.3.5. Motion to approve N. Lockwood, Second D. McQuaid, all aye.   
 
Bylaw Section 6.4., and Section 8.4.4.1.a)3, Motion to approve N. Lockwoo d, Second, D. McQuaid, Discussion - M. Allison 
requesting six additional feet of pavement.  Roll Call Vote - M. Allison, nay; K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuai d, aye; N. Lockwood, aye; 
J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye, vote passed 4-1. 
 
Subdivision of Land Rules and Reg s Section 4.10.4.6., N. Lockwood  for Directive to note conditional upon referenced detail 
being added to plan, Second, D. McQuaid.  All aye. 
 
Regulations of the Planning Board Governing the Design, Construction and Maintenance of Off Street Parking and Loading 
Areas Section 2.5.1. 
Motion N. Lockwood, conditional on dimensions being added to plan, Second, D. McQuaid.  All aye. 
 
Subdivision of Lan d Rules and Regs requiring minimum radii for interior driveways and service roads which meet the 
requirements of the subdivision rules and regulations. 
Motion N. Lockwood, Second D. McQuaid.  All aye. 
 
Plan to be revised per review letter and prepared for Board endorsement.   
 
Motion N. Lockwood to approve Development Plan Review contingent upon successful final review with the peer reviewing 
engineer, Second, K. Chenis.  All aye. 
 
Information Meeting closed at 7:15 PM. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
1259 Massachusetts Avenue Revised Plans 
1259 Massachusetts Avenue In House Tech Notes 
Whitman and Bingham Associates Review Letter dated August 24, 2014  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2014/1259 mass ave 08.25.14 