===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INITIAL:
M/2 DOM ESS MAA
UNENBURG PLANNING BOARD
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
TINEMBURG
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair
Damon McQuaid, Clk.
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.
Matthew Allison, Mbr.
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director
INCORPORA
Minutes
March 10, 2014
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Emerick R. Bakaysa, Matthew Allison
Absent: Marion M. Benson
Whitman & Bingham Associates, 357 Electric Avenue- Property owner Joseph Russo represented by Jamie Rheault,
Whitman & Bingham Associates. Mr. Russo would like his property to be part of the Registered Marijuana Bylaw (RMD)
currently being crafted by the Board. Site is approximately 15 acres, clear cut and paved (it was a former drive-in). Site has
municipal water and sewer. E. Bakaysa noted that the engineer had previously been before the Board for this site with the
thought of 2-3 buildings. J. Rheault responded that this would fit into that plan. The anticipated use would be for a commercial
building, a medical building, and a self-storage building.
ANR- 265 Pleasant Street- Plan presented by David Browchuk, Goldsmith, Prest and Ringwall. Parcels A and B being created
Plan accepted for department review.
ANR- 419 Sunny Hill Road- Motion, E. Bakaysa to endorse the Plan, Second, D. McQuaid, Plan signed
MINUTES APPROVAL: All minutes signed
Motion E. Bakaysa, to approve 2-24-14, Second, D. McQuaid.
Motion J Bilotta-Simeone to approve Executive 2-24-14, Second, N. Lockwood
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
MJTC, M. Allison- No meeting held.
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone- No meeting held
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- No meeting held.
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid. Committee held discussion on its future course as a result of the passing of the
School Article. Committee will stay at nine members; there is one vacancy (citizen at large). As the Committee moves forward,
it will be important for the Board to continue working on the Village District Bylaw as it will relate to uses in the Center of Town.
Capital Planning Committee, M. Benson- Tabled due to M. Benson's absence.
Green Community Task Force, M. Benson- Tabled due to M. Benson's absence.
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison- No meeting held
PLANNING DIRECTOR'S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:
Middle School/High School Project- Regulatory meeting held March 5th with J. Bilotta-Simeone attending. A modified site
plan review will be done as this is a public educational facility.
Highfield Village. Planning Office still waiting for large plan sets. Small sets have been distributed to departments for
informational purposes.
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road- No report.
50 Elmwood Road- Applicant represented by Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham Associates. An extension letter was
submitted requesting the item be passed over and granted a two-week extension. Planning Office also in receipt of electronic
mail from property owner Mr. Ewen requesting same. Item will be placed on March 24' Agenda. J. Bilotta-Simeone noted letter
from Building/Zoning Official Michael Sauvageau stating that under Article 9, Section 9, (#12) of the General Bylaw that applicant
is exempt from the requirements of an earth removal permit. Discussion ensued. Board questioning bert begrave at all FILED
APR 0 1 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 03-10-14
Page 2
removed from site. Is it the removal of overburden? P. Bertram, Board of Selectmen expressed her concern. She stated that at
a previous Board meeting the applicant stated this would be for resale. She will follow up on this at the Board of Selectmen
meeting. E. Bakaysa recommended she look at the approval the Planning Board issued for Houghton's Mill in which tremendous
amounts of gravel were removed.
Whites Woods- No report.
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report.
651 Chase Road Solar- Site work continues. Racking being installed.
265 Pleasant Street Solar- Site work continues. Racking being installed.
Annual Town Meeting- Creation of Marijuana Bylaw- Continued work on RMD Bylaw.
Discussion on the setbacks and buffer strips. Board questioned if 105 CMR 725.000 placed limitations on the size of a grow
field. Discussion on security. Board questioning if they are empowered to require armed security. Possibly condition the bylaw
to change if individuals utilizing RMD are allowed to purchase with credit cards and checks. The Board's concern with security is
based on the fact that individuals may have to purchase with cash only; not that this is marijuana. Draft bylaw will be posted to
the Town's website under the Planning Board.
There was discussion on having 105 CMR 725.000 available in the Planning
Office and Town Hall for interested individuals to read. M. Allison brought up the question of having a light plan in place. N.
Lockwood noted that 105CMR 725.000 is specific on lighting. Board questioned if an RMD is placed in the Commercial District,
will it have a positive or negative effect on the growth of that District. There is not enough data available to know how RMDs will
impact development.
ACTION FILE:
White Tail Crossing- Developer Dan Proctor would like to get on the Warrant for May Town Meeting to have White Tail
Crossing be accepted as a Town way. The Warrant closes on March 24th, and due to the snow, both the reviewing engineer and
DPW Director have been unable to inspect the roadway. To facilitate D. Proctor's placing an Article on the Warrant, the Board
will send a letter to the Board of Selectmen conditionally recommending approval based upon final roadway inspection. Motion
N. Lockwood to endorse letter, Second, M. Allison. Motion passed.
MEETING SCHEDULE:
March 24, 6:30 PM, Town Hall
April 14, 6:30 PM, Town Hall
April 28, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building
• Noted Caucus on March 17",
PUBLIC COMMENT: P. Bertram noted the Board of Selectmen would like to hold a workshop with the Planning Board prior to
the March 24 Hearing. Would also like to discuss financial cost to the Town for maintaining residential developments' drainage
systems. Date and time TBD.
BOARD COMMENTS: M. Allison noted required sight distances under American Association of State Highway and
Transportation officials (ASHTO). N. Lockwood noted that he would like the DPW Director to look into speed signage being
posted in the vicinity of 305 Leominster Shirley Road.
MEMBER ISSUES:
V. Lockwood inquired if there was any update on the social policy from the Town Manager. No. J Bilotta-Simeone note
Planning Department budget will be presented to the Finance Committee March 13"
Motion, E. Bakaysa to enter into Executive Session not to return to Regular Session, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. Adjourned
Regular Session 8:30 PM.
Documents used at meeting:
ANR, 265 Pleasant Street
ANR, 419 Sunny Hill Road
Weekly Updates, Chase Road and Pleasant Street solar
Draft RMD Bylaw
White Tail Crossing letter
•Minutes 2-24-14
Executive Minutes 2-24-14
Minutes/2014/02.10.14
