===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INITIALS
UNENBURG PLANNING BOARD
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BURG
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair
Damon McQuaid, Cik.
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
118
INCORPORA
Minutes
July 22, 2014
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 1 3 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 7:00 PM
Present: Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid
Absent: Kenneth Chenis
Also Present: Board of Selectmen members- T. Alonzo, P. Bertram, J. Toale, R. Ebersole, P. Luck
Joint Appointment with the Board of Selectmen, Planning Board Vacancy-
Chair J. Bilotta-Simeone opened the Planning Board portion of the joint session.
Board of Selectmen Chair T. Alonzo noted that at the Planning Board meeting of July 14, 2014 two candidates, Matthew Allison
and Celeste McCain-Stober, were interviewed for the vacant Planning Board seat. Appointment will be the majority vote of the
eight members present (Board of Selectmen and Planning Board) and the term until May Election 2015.
P. Luck opined M. Allison had a lot of Town support at the May 2014 Election with 43% of votes. She also cited his engineering
background and opined that M. Allison was more qualified that C. McCain-Stober. P. Bertram noted how hard C. McCain-Stober
worked on helping the Planning Board create the Town's Solar Bylaw, but that the engineering background of M. Allison was an
asset to the Planning Board and a better candidate for the Board. R. Ebersole noted that even though M. Allison's opinions may
Allison due to his engineering experience and previous time on the Planning Board. J. Toale noted the support M. Allison
N. Lockwood did not support M. Allison's nomination to the Planning Board. He noted M. Allison had made many contributions
to the Planning Board, but that the way M. Allison pursued his "agenda" was not respectful for the conduct of a Planning Board
member. N. Lockwood went on to state that M. Allison did not represent the Town in the proper light by his treatment of
applicants, Town's legal counsel, the Board's reviewing engineers, and other Town staft. N. Lockwood supported C. Mccain-
Stober for the position. D. McQuaid was in agreement with N. Lockwood and supported C. McCain-Stober. He opined that M.
Allison was quick to point out problems, but did not offer any solutions to the problems. J. Bilotta-Simeone supported C. McCain-
Stober and went on to note that she felt this was a "political move". She noted that the Board of Selectmen were aware of M.
Allison's behavior on the Planning Board over the past year and questioned the Select Board's opinion that M. Allison was the
right candidate for the vacancy. She has spoken in the past with the Town Manager regarding his unprofessionalism. v. Bilotta-
Simeone noted that K. Chenis was unable to attend this meeting, but was also in support of C. McCain-Stober.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 07.22.14
Page 2
T. Alonzo was in favor of M. Allison as being on the Planning Board is very intensive and time consuming; it takes a lot of time to
"come up to speed" to be a contributing member on the Planning Board. He wants to get someone in who knows the planning
Select Board members noted they were aware of underlying issues in the way Mi. Allison communicated, but based on his
interview, they hoped that he was looking to change his behavior.
Motion, R. Ebersole to appoint Matthew Allison to the vacancy of the Planning Board for the term to end at the next election,
Second, P. Luck, Motion passed 5 - 3.
N. Lockwood noted the Selectmen's frequent references to M. Allison's engineering background and wanted the Board of
Selectmen to be aware that the Planning Board does have technical advice in the matters they deal with through the peer review
engineer.
Town Manager to inform M. Allison of his appointment.
ADJOURNMENT: 7:45 PM
Minutes/2014/07.22.14
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 1 3 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK UFFICE
