===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
SUBURG
sula
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair
Damon McQuaid, Cik.
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.
Matthew Allison, Mbr.
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
60 Massachusetts Avenu
unenburg, MA 0146:
INCORPORE
Minutes
May 12, 2014
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison
Also Present: Chantell Fleck, MRPC
Absent: Emerick R. Bakaysa, Marion M. Benson
PUBLIC HEARING (cont'd), Highfield Village, Northfield Road- See separate minutes
MS/HS Project- Informal presentation to Board by David Warner, Warner Larson Landscape Architects. Parcel encompasses
approximately 52 acres; the Turkey Hill Middle School, High School and Passios. Proposed project is to build new middle/high
school on site of existing football field; then tear down existing building and rebuild athletic fields on south side of campus. New
fields will have sport lighting. Also lights along drive. Fire lane around back of the building. Tennis courts will be reconstructed
and there will be a new basketball court. LED fixtures on pedestrian walkway. Majority of parking adjacent to Passios will remain
intact; will be reconfigured. There will be a drive all the way through from Massachusetts Avenue to Oak Avenue. Preliminary
dialogue has taken place with the Project Engineer and Whitman & Bingham (WB), Reviewing Engineer as to expectations for
the Development Plan Review. To streamline communications, Board approved direct contact between developer and WB
throughout the process. In house tech meeting is scheduled for May 20, 2014 in the Planning Office. D. Warner will be back
before Board at the June 9, 2014 for a comprehensive presentation to cover any issues raised by WB review. Main entrance will
be located on the west side of the building serving both the high school and the middle school. Site is ADA compliant. Parking
spaces for total site will be 508. Building height is 40 feet; Bylaw Section 5.3.1.1. states, "... the maximum height of a building or
structure shall be thirty-eight (38) feet...". The project is exempt from this requirement under the Dover Amendment. No waiver
will be requested in the application based upon interpretation of educational use. M. Allison inquired entrance location for
delivery trucks - off Massachusetts Avenue. Oak Avenue entrance will be mainly for staff and parents. J. Bilotta-Simeone
inquired if old restrooms and concession stand will be used during athletic events - yes. She noted her concern with possible
lack of Booster Club income derived from the concession stand due to its distance from the proposed new field and also
unsightliness from Massachusetts Avenue of possible portable toilets that may be used to accommodate large crowds. D
Warner noted this can be brought to the attention of the School Building Committee. M. Allison inquired as to height of retaining
wall - 7-8 feet due to grade change from east to west side of field.
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road- Where is the roadway in relation to concession stand? Traffic can be restricted
during athletic events by gate closure. Is a new lot line in relation to the Passios incorporated in this plan? No new interior lot
lines proposed. Work along west side of fields has been minimized so as not to preclude any other development. Only
pavement and utilities being done for new school to function. P. Bertram was concerned with limited parking in the vicinity of
Passios in the new plan. She feels that even though this is a school project, it needs to be looked at from a Town perspective in
order for the Town to repurpose the Passios without undue restrictions as a result of the site plan.
D. McQuaid noted need to find out from School Building Committee the minimum acreage requirement for the facility.
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane-Why wouldn't students access student parking from Oak Avenue? Will be an enforcement issue for
the Police Department and the School. Police Department specifically requested gates be open.
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane- Will light be structured to minimize light pollution? LED light will be fully contained below a solid
housing and only shine down. No light will be shining above a horizontal plane. Parking and driveway lights will be coming on
each evening, but sports lights will only be on during events.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 0 2 2014
LUNENBURG TOW
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 05.12.14
Page 2
MINUTES APPROVAL: All minutes signed
Motion, D. McQuaid, to approve 4-22-14, Second, N. Lockwood.
Motion, M. Allison, to approve 4-28-14, Second, D. McQuaid.
Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 5-3-14, Second, D. McQuaid
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
MJTC, M. Allison- No meeting held
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone- MRPC moving its offices across the street from current location.
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- No meeting held.
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid- Have formed two task forces; one to look at options for Town Hall and the other to
look at how to market the Town. Building Reuse Committee looking at six buildings; Ritter, Passios, Town Hall, Old Primary
School, Brooks House, and West Street DPW building. Will be advantageous to have a Village District Bylaw in place. The cost
per year to the Town to keep them running is $180,000.00. That figure does not include any maintenance costs.
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison- No meeting held. Bylaw passed at May 3, 2014 Town Meeting.
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:
MS/HS Project. See informal presentation above.
Highfield Village- See separate hearing continuation minutes. Hearing continuation will be June 9, 2014, time to be determined
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road- J. Bilotta-Simeone noted that the Police Chief and DPW Director have
spoken with the owner. Owner is agreeable to moving fence back and taking out dirt. C. Fleck noted MRPC traffic count packet.
If the Planning Board wants a traffic count for a specific location, they need to send a completed Traffic Count Request Form to
the Board of Selectmen for approval. Board members noted various locations - 305 Leominster Shirley Road, Goodrich Street
at the Lancaster Avenue intersection, and The Lane between Flat Hill Road and Rt. 2A. The Board will make a final
determination at their May 27t meeting. C. Fleck also noted she spoke with Brad Harris, MRPC, regarding the Local Curve
Systematic Approach to Safety Program. The state is still accepting sites. Information supplied to P. Bertram, Board of
Selectmen. P. Bertram noted this program is for signage; e.g. low cost improvements to increase safety on curves. She
cautioned the Board that by having these studies done, it could possibly increase the speed limit in the vicinity of 305 Leominster
Shirley Road (currently 30 mph) instead of reducing it. C. Fleck noted that B. Harris stated a traffic count needed to be done as
a base prior to a traffic study. J. Bilotta-Simeone requested if B. Harris could come to a Board meeting to discuss the Local
Curve Systematic Approach to Safety Program.
Whites Woods- No report.
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report.
651 Chase Road Solar- All electrical work complete except Unitil work. Fence completed except at Chase Road entrance. Site
cleanup started. Tree planting should begin within next two weeks.
265 Pleasant Street Solar- All electrical work complete except for Unitil work. Site cleanup started. Beginning installation of
berms for plantings. Tree planting should begin with next two weeks.
White Tail Crossing. Article passed over at May 3, 2014 Town Meeting. Applicant hopes to come before fall town meeting.
ACTION FILE:
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road. Findings and Directives before Board for endorsement. Board of Selectmen
requested the Board include stipulations relative to earth removal. WB, on behalf of the developer, responded to the requested
stipulations. Wesley Flis, WB, was on hand for any questions.
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane- Developer requested waiver as subdivision has less than 10 lots. C. Luck opined that was not a
reason for a waiver and he could not locate the Board's guideline for sidewalk waivers. N. Lockwood noted this is a fairly
common waiver; the subdivision will be located on a dead-end street and not heavily trafficked. C. Luck opined the Town should
be "walkable" and if waivers continued to be granted, that will not happen. He is looking for justification from the applicant as to
why the waiver is requested. J. Bilotta-Simeone noted that at a previous meeting, WB presented the list of waivers and
justification to the Board. W. Flis noted that this waiver was requested as the subdivision is less than 10 lots. It is also on a dead
end street and will not produce heavy pedestrian traffic. C. Luck opined that it had to be justified in writing as to why the waiver
would be in the public's best interest. He opined the Board is not following process. N. Lockwood noted that lack of pedestrian
traffic, and cost of maintaining sidewalks, would come under public interest. M. Allison inquired if the reason the Board waived
the dead-end street length was due to the fact that the subdivision was less than 10 lots. N. Lockwood responded that the
decision to waive the street length was made over the course of three meetings. It was also noted that the Conservation
Commission was present at a Board meeting to speak on that topic. The decision to grant waivers is also done in consultation
with the reviewing engineer. Motion, D. McQuaid, to endorse Findings and Directives for 50 Elmwood Road, Second, N.
Lockwood, all aye.
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 05.12.14
Page 3
40 Leominster Shirley Road- EBl Consulting completing an environmental review process on behalf of AT&T for possible
telecommunication tower placement. Looking for comments on any historic properties that may be affected near the site. EBI's
letter will be forwarded to the Historical Commission for input.
Village District Draft Bylaw- C. Fleck noted she is reviewing the Citizen Survey results. D. McQuaid noted citizen outreach is
critical. He is proposing an envisioning session in partnership with the Historical Commission, Building Reuse Committee, and
Planning Board for discussion of the Town Center's past to better understand where it is as a community moving forward
Possible slide show of what the Center was and what it can be again.
Historical Commission has offered to organize
presentation. Hope to have it going by mid-June with a second presentation 1 - 1 ½ months later. Historical Commission will do
first presentation. D. McQuaid noted that the envisioning session will provide the Board critical information to guide it in defining
key aspects of the Bylaw such as setbacks, dimensional standards, screening, design standards, etc. D. McQuaid noted the
Building Reuse Committee would like a workshop with the Planning Board. Planning Office to coordinate with Building Reuse
Committee. N. Lockwood opined the future possibility of a historic bylaw.
250 Whalom Road, Lunenburg Village- Noted Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) continued hearing to May 289. ZBA looking for
any comments/suggestions from Town Departments. M. Allison opined that the name of the development should not be the
same as the "Lunenburg Village" located in the Center of Town. J. Bilotta-Simeone noted that has been brought to the attention
Whalom Park side. Both N. Lockwood and M. Allison agree that this is a positive development with tasteful site configuration
and use of open space. J. Bilotta-Simeone felt the ZBA is doing a good job handling it. There was discussion of composing a
letter to the ZBA stating that from a planning standpoint this makes superior gains towards the Subsidized Housing Inventory
(SHI) and provides residential support to foster local business development in the Summer St Corridor area. Motion made, A
Lockwood, to send letter, Second, M. Allison. D. McQuaid was not in complete agreement and concerned with Town budget.
Opined that it would not generate profit for the Town and prefers less residential units. M. Allison thanked the ZBA for the
opportunity to comment. N. Lockwood withdrew his Motion; no letter will be sent.
Master Plan- Housing Element and Housing Production Plan- MRPC has prepared draft Contract and Scope for Housing
Production Plan for Board review. Board reviewed and consensus was for MRPC to proceed with Contract and Scope.
MEETING SCHEDULE:
Tuesday, May 27, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building
June 9, 6:30 PM, Town Hall
June 23, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building
MEMBER ISSUES: N. Lockwood wants to start discussing economic development at next meeting. C. Fleck noted Board
should review Economic Development Element prior to discussion. Board needs to vote to accept Element.
Motion, J. Bilotta-Simeone to adjourn, Second, D. McQuaid, Adjourned 9:36 PM.
Documents used at meeting:
Minutes 4/22/14
Minutes 4/28/14
Minutes 5/3/14
MRPC Traffic Count Correspondence
Chase Road Solar Update
Pleasant Street Solar Update
50 Elmwood Road Subdivision Findings and Directives
40 Leominster Shirley Road, EBI Consulting, Invitation to Comment
Village District Draft Bylaw
Zoning Board of Appeals Letter, 4/29/14, Request for Comments
Minutes/2014/05.12.14
