===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
322 Flat Hill Community Solar 
October 14, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  7:00 PM 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
Public Hearing was to hear and discuss a Special Permit and Development Plan Review under Sections 4.15. and 8.4. of the 
Protective Bylaw of the  Town of Lunenburg  for construction of a 75kW ground -mounted photovoltaic installation at 322 Flat Hill 
Road (Map 087, Parcel 0026).  Applicant/Owner is Michael Conway, 322 Flat Hill Road, Lunenburg, MA.     
 
M. Allison recused himself as he is an abutter to the site. 
 
Proposed site is a 75 k W ground mounted solar array which will be located at the rear of the property behind the primary 
residence.  The array will take up roughly ¾ a cre of the property and will consist of 270 panels and 6 volt indicators.  The 
proposed racking is a ground  screw based foundation system, no concrete piles, intercon nected to Unitil  at the road.  Unitil will 
install transformer.  
 
J. Bilotta -Simeone inquired as to abutters being impacted by view.  M. Conway opined  only the i mmediate abutters at 44 
Cortland Circle, Michael and Maryellen Ramstack.  Panels will face south, away from their house.   
 
Many of the residents from the Village at Flat Hill noted they had not received notification of the hearing.  A. Burney infor med 
those in attendance that the official Town records list Robert M. Hicks Inc. as the owner and that is the legal listing for notification 
purposes per M.G.L.  A. Burney noted that the Association should follow-up with the Assessors’ Office. 
 
Wesley Flis, Whitman a nd Bingham Associates, presented his review.  No ted the Zoning Board of Appeals 04.08.14 approval 
was for a 50kW array and the application before the Board is for 75kW.  If approved for 75kW, M. Conway will have to go back to 
the Zoning Board of Appeals.  M. Conway should provide evidence to the Board that the utility company has approved 
connecting to the grid.  A form of surety should be provided for review.  Show offsets on plan.  M. Conway did not plan to do 
fencing; wanted to bring as little foreign material on site as possible.  Signage should be shown on plan.  No issues with drainage 
analysis, but recommended the Board “condition” that the applicant maintain proposed grass surface condition u nder the panels.  
If the applicant changes the surface ty pe to something less pervious, he would be required to provide an undated Stor mwater 
Drainage Analysis.   The same with utilizing a proposed screw mounting system.  Also noted items brought forth at the 
September 16th In house Tech Meeting.   
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing 
322 Flat Hill Community Solar 
October 14, 2014 
Page 2 
 
J. Whalen, 526 West Townsend Road - Questions arose as to why the applicant went to the Zoning Board of Appeals prior to the 
Planning Board.  A. Burney responded that the applicant was seeking relief from the dimensional requirements.    
 
N. Lockwood inquired as to panel height -  Nine feet from ground at highest point in back sloping down to lowest point being 24 
inches.  Inquired as to current use of wetlands area located north of applicant -  Common Area for the Village at Flat Hill.   
D. McQuaid wants Applicant’s plans for screening. 
J. Bilotta-Simeone inquired if other residents benefit from this solar farm?  M. Conway noted that in selling metered credits back 
to residents, they will have  the opportunity to realize rebates on their energy bills.  She asked M. Conway if he needed this by a 
specific date- end of the year.   
A. Burney noted there was no proof of liability insurance in the submittal packet and an O&M Plan.   
 
Greg Kelly, 45 Cortland Circle- Felt that some of the provided data may not be accurate; e.g. Aerial View on submittal cover page 
may be quite dated and not show current vegetation.  Feels site will be visible from his property.   
Mike Ramstack, 44 Cortland  Circle- Is the Zoning Board of Appeals variance still in effect?  Yes, was granted by the Zoning 
Board of Appeals.  The Zoning Board of Appeals variance is what allows him to be before the Planning Board.  He is allowed to 
intrude within the 200 foot buffer per the Zoning Board of Appeals special permit.   
J. Whalen, 526 West Townsend Road - How far away is the nearest resident (house) to the panels?  M. Conway estimated 150 
feet.  J. Whalen noted M. Conway is 500 feet away from the panels.  Board needs to insist on appropriate buffering.   
Maryellen Ramstack, 44 Cortland Circle- Will have tremendous negative visual impact.  Will impact housing costs.   
Tina Kroll, 12 Alder Way- Does not belong in the neighborhood. 
M. Conway responded that property values will not decrease. 
D. Blatt- noted M. Conway is attempting to do what the Town did; he is providing a choice by allowing an individual to lock into a 
price.   
A. Burney clarified to the audience that the special permit issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals is within its rights and authority.  
The Zoning Board of Appeals’ special permit does not eliminate the Planning Board’s special permit; they work in conjunction .  
 
Board can do individual or group site visit for evidence gathering.  (No deliberation can be allowed.)  Can request access from M. 
Conway.  M. Conway noted that the property behind his house is open recreational for neighbors and horses trails – neighbors 
can walk on it at any time. 
 
Greg Kelly, 45 Cortland Circle - requested clarification as to the Board’s ability to direct buffering and deny the application.  
Opined project is inconsistent with residential neighborhood. 
Celeste McCain, Pleasant Street- Encouraged the Board to insist on appropriate buffering.   
Rachel Smith, 322 Flat Hill Road- Noted she cannot see any other houses from her rear yard other than the Ramstacks’.   
 
Board members plan on visiting the site as a group the weekend of October 2 5th.  Want  to see a landscape /screening plan, 
shadow constraint plan, and want to know proximity of neighbors.  D. McQuaid made Motion to continue Hearing to October 27, 
7:00 PM, Second, N. Lockwood, all aye. 
 
Recessed Hearing 9:05 PM. 
 
Documents used at Hearing: 
Application for Special Permit and Development Plan Review  
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2014/322 flat hill community solar 10.14.14 