===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
January 27, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  None 
 
INFORMATION MEETING (cont’d) :  Force Corp., 305 Leominster Shirley Road - See separate minutes.  Findings and 
Directives will be prepared. 
 
Board Discussion with Police and Fire Chiefs, Marijuana Bylaw:    Police Chief Marino was available for attendance.  Fire 
Chief Sullivan not available.  J. Bilotta-Simeone opined that both individuals gro wing medical marijuana and dispensaries should 
be registered with the Police, Fire, and Building Departments.  Chief Sullivan noted his issues to Planning Director via electronic 
mail as follows.  There should be a Knox Box for 24 -hour emergency access.  P rovision that no security system circumvent life 
safety egress systems, e.g., electronic locks on means o f egress must unlock if fire alarm activates.  Security fences/gates will 
not impede fire apparatus access.  Chief Marino concerned with unintended con sequences, e.g., criminal element, of having a 
dispensary in Lunenburg.  Asked about security cameras and alarm systems.  During hours of operation can restrictions be 
imposed, e.g., posting a police officer at facility ?  Concerned about protecting the peo ple that legitimately need the drug.  He 
agreed with J. Bilotta-Simeone that individuals should register.  This would be part of a general bylaw acted upon by the Board of 
Selectmen.  There was discussion as to zoning for a dispensary.  Would the Board con sider it retail, industrial, commercial, or 
medical?  Could create a Medical Overlay.  Chief Marino will keep the Board informed with his suggestions.  Board is to review 
their information packets for particulars they want in the  Zoning Bylaw and provide t hat information to the Planning Office for 
creation of a draft document which the Board will work off.  Need to focus on location, site plan, public health and security.  Could 
be by special permit, by right, or by site plan required?  Board liked the idea  of a special permit.  State law requires applicant to 
demonstrate they can secure the property to do business for five years.  Chief Marino noted the marijuana can be grown at one  
location, yet sold from another, e.g., one company with two locations.  Any updates provided to the Board will also be provided to 
both the Fire and Police Chiefs.  Board not sure how restrictive they can be on the hours of operation, e.g. only during daylight 
hours for purposes of safety?   
 
Stone Farm Estates:  Tabled 
 
Highfield Village:   Represented by John Godfrey.  Current Extension expires January 31, 2014.  Last appeared before the 
Board in October.  Sewer allocation agreement has been executed with the Sewer Commission; signed agreement in place.  
Sewer plans submitted to Weston & Sampson.  Have been adjusted as a result of Weston & Sampson review.  Will present 
revised plans to the Sewer Commission at its January 28, 2014 meeting.  A Weston & Sampson representative will also be 
present at that meeting.   Mr. Godfrey hopes t o have a concluded sewer plan at the end of that meeting.  In anticipation of that a 
sewer extension agreement has been prepared for the state.  The state has to issue a permit to extend the sewer.  Other open 
item is the EIR which MEPA has deemed adequate.  Mr. Godfrey requesting a Planning Board extension to April 30, 2014.  He  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.27.14 
Page 2 
 
anticipates a final subdivision plan, with the final sewer, for Board review at its February 24, 2014 meeting.  Motion, N. Lockwood 
to extend to April 3 0, 2014, Second, D. McQuaid, discussion - M. Allison took exception to the copious extensions over the past 
nine years.  Mr. Godfrey noted all the changes they had made to the plans over the past years.  J. Bilotta-Simeone also felt that 
things had taken a long time, but were now moving along more rapidly.  Mr. Godfrey opined the long timeframe was as a result of 
regulatory and planning frameworks in society.  D. McQuaid noted that the approval process can take nine to twelve years.  Roll 
Call Vote to approve request for extension - J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; D. McQuaid, aye; M. Allison, nay; N. Lockwood, aye.  Vote 
passed 3-1.  
 
ANRs: 
40 Page Street, Jeffrey Stone- Plan endorsed by Board.   
145 Page Street, Katkin Family Revocable Trust- Plan endorsed by Board.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Motion to approve 01-13-14, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid .  Motion to approve 01 -13-14 
Elmwood Road Hearing, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid.  Minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, M. Allison-  Lunenburg slated for 2017 to start Summer Street Revitalization. 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   Meeting scheduled for January 28th.   
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-  Talks regarding process going forward.  Preparing for sub-contract bidding 
process.  A Development Plan Review application needs to be submitted to the Board. 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-   Committee status unsure. 
Capital Planning Committee, M. Benson-   FY2015 Plan completed and sent to Town Manager.    
Green Community Task Force, M. Benson-  In final stages with state application.  
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison-   Commission interested in forestry program. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
MRPC- DLTA Application-  Application submitted to MRPC.  Awaiting response. 
Housing Production Plan-  MRPC has suggested developing a Housing Production Plan through them. 
50 Elmwood Road- Represented by Mark Piermarini, Whitman & Bingham Associates, LLC.  Revised plan submitted as a result 
of January 22, 2014 review letter (on file i n Planning Office) from J. Johnson, David E. Ross Associates.  Board had inquired as 
to historical value of existing building and if site was in sewer district.  E xisting building on site not historical  and site not in the 
sewer district.  Site abuts Proctor Park.  J. Bilotta-Simeone requesting if access can be provided to that park via a conservation 
trail, etc.  S. Jordan, Conservation Commission, noted that the border between Proctor Park and the subdivision site is about 
2,000 feet of wetlands.  The Par k has vertical trails which follow the AT&T power lines.  Other trails branch off the main vertical 
ones.  She noted the Proctor Park is underserved for public access.  There is a trail to Elmwood  Road, but no parking.  M. 
Piermarini noted the Park could be accessible through the drainage easement.  Would be indicated on the Plan by a right -of-way 
easement.   J. Johnson provided his comments.  (This review was based on revised plan submitted January 13, 2014.  They do 
not pertain to the revision submitted a t this meeting.)  He emphasized the applicant detail the overburden utilizing Form N as the 
applicant anticipates removing 50,000 cubi c yards.  This will entail numerous truck trips.  Recommended the Board stipulate 
using Route 2A.  Noted street trees woul d be beneficial to the project.  Applicant requesting waiver from Section 4.2.5.1. for 
installation of a 750 foot length dead -end road due to site topography.  J. Johnson recommended this should also be reviewed 
with the Fire Department.  Establishment of Zoning District has been determined by the Building Official/Zoning Official.   J. 
Johnson suggested installation of the drywells be bonded with the rest of the infrastructure to ensure their installation.  Suggests 
DPW review proposed design for the draina ge system a s the two units proposed are in remote locations that are not easily 
accessible for routine maintenance.  The plans submitted t his evening reflect changes per J. Johnson’s review letter.  Board still 
needs to decide if they want to grant a waive r for the roadway.  M. Allison concerned with maintenance of the Stormceptors.   S. 
Jordan noted items requested by the Conservation Commission.  NOI only for the road; not for lots themselves.  Applicant 
requesting Conservation Commission  approves clearing for house lots as well as road.  C onservation Commission  asking for 
clarification on number of trees being removed and how much area will be cleared.   The applicant will be before the Commission 
on February 5, 2014.  N. Lockwood inquired if the Commission would prefer the Board wait on approving/disapproving the 
requested waiver until  the Commission renders a decision.  P. Bertram, Board of Selectmen - applicant needs earth removal 
permit from Board of Selectmen due to amount of overburden being taken off s ite.  The Planning Board will defer voting on the 
requested waiver until they receive input from the Commission at its February 5th meeting with the applicant.   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 01.27.14 
Page 3 
 
Highfield Village- See above.  Current Extension expires January 31, 2014.  Extended to April 30, 2014.   
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-  See separate minutes. 
Whites Woods- No report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report 
White Tail Crossing - Applicant hopes to come before annual town meeting for road a cceptance.  S. Jordan inquired who was 
currently responsible for maintenance of the two large drainage ponds.  Owner/applicant.  
651 Chase Road Solar - Clearing site.  Road construction 30% complete.  Some arrays may be relocated; if so, will have to 
come before the Board for approval. 
265 Pleasant Street Solar- No work scheduled.   
Lane Property- Tabled due to absence of E. Bakaysa. 
 
ACTION FILE: 
Citizen Survey- No additional surveys received.  J. Bilotta-Simeone feels there is a lack of communication to the citizens that the 
survey is available online.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
February 10, 2014, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
February 24, 2014, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  B. Ebersole, Board of Selectmen noted a previous Board agenda item which was how to improve public 
communications.  He also shared the same issue with the Board of Selectmen.  Discussion ensued as to better communication 
between Boards/Commissions.  P. Bertram and S. Jordan both opined that when any Town Department receives plans, the 
Town Boards/Commissions should also receive PDFs of the same.  It was noted that submittals to the Planning Board are also 
viewable on the Town’s website under the Planning Board home page.   S. Jordan noted plaques are available for applicants 
before the Conservation Commission .  Applicants will post every 50 feet along the wetlands buffer.  Do Not Disturb – Wetlands 
Buffer Zone.   
 
BOARD COMMENTS:  D. McQuaid noted he has been spending time reviewing the Village Bylaw information and wishes to 
discuss at an upcoming Board meeting.  He will notify the office when he wants it placed on the agenda.  
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  none 
 
Motion to adjourn Regular Session to go into Executive Session not to return to Regular Session , D. McQuaid,  Second, M. 
Allison.  Adjourned 9:30 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Marijuana Information Packets 
Minutes 01-13-14 
Minutes 01-13-14 Elmwood Road Hearing 
Solar Progress Reports 
50 Elmwood Road Subdivision- Revised Plans 
145 Page Street ANR 
40 Page Street ANR 
 
Minutes/2014/01.27.14 