===PAGE 1===
 
 
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
50 Elmwood Road 
January 13, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Emerick R. Bakaysa, Matthew Allison 
Absent:  Marion M. Benson 
 
Chair requested Motion to enter into Public Hearing Session.  Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood, all aye. 
 
Chair opened the Public Hearing with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise December 30, 2013 and 
January 6, 2014 .  The hearing is to hear and discuss a  definitive subdivision application under Section 3.4. of the Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Lunenburg Planning Board .  The application is for a nine -lot subdivision at 50 
Elmwood Road (Map 068, Parcel 0017).  Property owner is Mark Ewen, 70 Elmwood Road, Lunenburg.  Applicant is  Michael 
Crowley, 320 Joslin Street, Leominster, MA. 
 
The applicant/developer (M. Crowley) was represented by Wesley Flis, Whitman & Bingham Associates.  M. Crowley currently 
has a Purchase and Sales Agreement on the property.  Site consists of approximate ly 20 acres.  There are a number of 
environmental concerns.  The applicant has filed with the Conservation Commission and will be meeting with them later in the 
week for the filing of a Notice of Intent.  The access road would be located in the upland area ; 750 foot road to a cul -de-sac.  
Nine lots fronting off the cul -de-sac.  Applicant requesting waiver for the 650 foot length for a dead end street.  750 feet 
requested due to site topography.  Site is located in both Residence A (40,000 sf zoning) and Out lying (80,000 sf zoning) 
Districts.  Applicant has talked to Building Commissioner  regarding house placement for proper zoning.  All lots will be serviced 
by private septic systems and municipal water.  An infiltration basin will be located in the south po rtion of the site and a larger 
basin between Lots 7 and 8.   N. Lockwood inquired if the applicant considered connecting to sewer; W. Flis noted that m unicipal 
sewer is not economically feasible for the developer.   That’s an up-front cost the developer ha s to take on while septic systems 
are a cost per lot.    
 
Reviewing Engineer Jesse Johnson, David Ross Associates, presented his review (on file in the Planning Office).  Specifically  
noted was that Form N should be filled out detailing the amount of overb urden.  The applicant has requested a waiver from 
submission of a Tree Plan, and consequently from providing street trees.  J. Johnson noted that the project pro poses to 
essentially clear-cut the entire work area.  Street trees could be beneficial to the o verall aesthetics of the project.  The applicant 
has requested a waiver from the 650 feet for dead -end streets due to the site topography.  J. Johnson does not see how the 
existing topography would necessi tate the longer roadway.  The applicant’s justifica tion for this waiver should be explained 
further.  J. Johnson recommended the Board request written communication from the Building Commissioner/Zoning 
Enforcement Officer regarding determination of the lot zoning.   
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
M. Allison inquired if sufficient soil  testing had occurred.  J. Johnson responded he noted a number of test holes on the plans.  
He asked for a different scale of plans as  he could not verify their location in relation to drainage infrastructure of the homes.  All 
results showed consistent sand and gravel.  No ground water in the depths dug.   
 
 
Minutes 
50 Elmwood Road Public Hearing, 01.13.14 
Page 2 
 
W. Flis noted Stormwater Report and Drainage Calculations  were updated as a result of J. Johnson’s review.  All the soil test 
logs are included.  A set of updated plans were provided.   
 
J. Bilotta-Simeone opened the Hearing to public comment. 
 
Joyce Marceau, 90 Elmwood Road- asked if individual septics or a “master” septic.  Individual.   
 
E. Bakaysa inquired if reducing the frontage on some lot s would reduce the need for a 750 foot road.  W. Flis noted that d ue to 
the way the Bylaw is written , requiring 175 feet of lot width through the building, that is not a possibility.    Homes sit 
approximately 75 feet from the road.   
 
N. Lockwood inquired how this will fit into the Sewer Commission’s plans for the future, i.e., would the Commission prefer to see 
this development on sewer instead of septic ?  If this project had sewer, could there be a different house placement?  J. Johnson 
opined that if you have ideal soils such as this which can take a septic system , bringing sewer to the development would be low 
on the Commission’s priority list.   
 
Board members noted they would like to s ee a Tree Plan.  J. Johnson noted for the developer to create a lev el entrance, the top 
has to be “shaved” off the site which forces clear cutting the site.  He opined that trees could not be saved; therefore he feels it 
important to have trees along the roadway.   
 
E. Bakaysa reiterated that the Board wants a letter from  the Zoning Officer as to how he determined the lot sizes, given the two 
Zoning Districts.  If he also talked to Town Counsel, the Board would like that for their records also.  
 
Motion, E. Bakaysa to close the Public Hearing, Second, M. Allison, all aye.  Hearing closed 7:20 PM. 
 
Ralph Marceau inquired if the abutters could get a copy of the plan.  It was noted that he is welcome to come by the Planning  
Office to view the plan. 
 
Motion, E. Bakaysa, to return to Regular Session, Second, Mr. McQuaid, all aye. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2014/50 elmwood road 01.13.14 