===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
May 27, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Emerick R. Bakaysa 
Also Present:  Chantell Fleck, MRPC 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis, Marion M. Benson 
 
MASTER PLAN:  MRPC Presentation- John Hume-  
Housing Element and Housing Product ion Plan - Contract has been provided to the Town Manager for the Housing 
Production Plan (HPP).  Contract needs to be signed by the Select Board Chair.  MRPC plans to work on the first tasks in the 
Contract in June.  It was suggested that the Board of Sele ctmen should be briefed on the HPP and the importance of updating 
the Master Plan.  C. Fleck will prepare a letter to the Board of Selectmen  noting same and also note long -term goal of the 
Transportation Element.  C. Fleck suggested developing a list of wh at’s left to do and the cost to provide the Board with the “big 
picture”.  It will take 5 -6 months for a HPP; estimated completion date October -November timeframe.  It can be converted into a 
Master Plan Housing Element probably in December for approximate ly $1,000.00.  Neither the HPP nor Master Plan Elements 
require town meeting vote.   
Transportation Element- Takes approximately $8 ,000 - $10,000.  Planning Board may be eligible for additional funding under 
UPWP (Unified Planning Work Program).  J. Hume suggested the Board start the Transportation Element in May 2015 utilizing 
encumbered funds.  UPWP funds would be available late summer/early fall.   J. Hume noted the Board should start working with 
the MRPC Transportation Director in January 2015 timeframe .  The Board should submit its request to the Board of Selectmen 
by December and then the Board of Selectmen will submit an application letter to MRPC’s Transportation Department. 
Economic Development Element - N. Lockwood opined a public forum  should be sc heduled.  Board members should bring 
their ideas /comments to the forum.  The forum would be to identify any proposed modifications.  J. Hume noted the Citizen 
Survey should also be a part of the forum.  J. Hume noted the final draft of the Element was presented to the Board in December 
2013; the contract for the Economic Development Element concluded and if the Board desires major reconfiguration  of the 
document the funding is not available.  Board to review Element in a work session prior to public forum.  J. Hume suggested fall 
timeframe – difficult to get attendance during summer months.   
 
There was discussion as to whether the Board would adopt each Element as it is completed, or wait until all Elements are 
complete and then adopt all at once.  No decision made. 
 
E. Bakaysa questioned what needs to be done to bring business to Lunenburg.  It’s important to talk to business owners and find 
out what attracts them to Lunenburg.  What would entice a business to move to Lunenburg?  D. McQuaid noted that the R e-Use 
Committee has been having discussions with realtors and business owners  and that the b iggest hurdle for Town Center is the 
current Residence A zoning.  E. Bakaysa opined that even if re -zoned, most of the Town Center is residences with not much 
space left for commercial/retail.  Is it primarily in reuse of current buildings?  J. Bilotta-Simeone opined the Board needs to be 
“proactive, not reactive” in working with developers.  As developers come in there should be a development c ommittee to sit 
down with the developer to discuss what the developer wants to do before  financially investing in a large quantity of plans that 
would probably need revising.   
 
A Master Plan workshop will be scheduled for June 16, 2014. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 05.27.14 
Page 2 
 
BOARD REORGANIZATION:   
Chair- Motion to nominate J. Bilotta-Simeone, N. Lockwood, Second, E. Bakaysa, all aye. 
Vice Chair- Motion to nominate N. Lockwood, J. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
Clerk- Motion to nominate D. McQuaid, E. Bakaysa, Second, N. Lockwood, all aye. 
MRPC Representative- remains J. Bilotta-Simeone by consensus 
MJTC Representative- Kenneth Chenis by consensus pending K. Chenis acceptance. 
School Building Committee Representative – remains N. Lockwood by consensus 
Building Re-Use Committee Representative- remains D. McQuaid by consensus 
 
Office to confirm as to whether or not a representative is required for the Capital Planning Committee.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  All minutes signed. 
Motion, J. Bilotta-Simeone, to approve 5-12-14, Second, D. McQuaid. 
Motion, J. Bilotta-Simeone, to approve 5-12-14 Highfield Village Hearing, Second, D. McQuaid. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC-  No current representative. 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   J. Bilotta-Simeone attended Executive Session earlier this evening.  Unab le to stay for regular 
meeting due to Planning Board meeting.   
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- A minor change to the building footprint  was made between  the Town Meeting 
vote and what was submitted to the MSBA; therefore the architectural firm is operating “at risk”.  This has slowed the process.  C. 
Fleck noted requested changes to the drive by the Fire Chief and DPW D irector at the in-house tech meeting held May 20 th and 
asked if that would create an issue.  N. Lockwood responded – no.  J. Bilotta-Simeone inquired if the architectural firm would 
have to comply with the requested changes as this will be a municipal building.  C. Fleck responded that if the firm chooses not 
to comply, at least the Board will have done its due diligence.  One of the questions from the Board is what is the minimum 
acreage for the school.  Board would like to know what the boundaries are in relation to Passios.   
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    The Committee will meet with the Planning Board at its June 23 rd meeting. 
Agricultural Commission -  Board discussion as to whether or not continue with a Board liaison.  Board wanted to continue 
being a resource for the AgCom through the Land Use Director.     
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
MS/HS Project -  See comments above under School Building Committee   Both the Board’s Reviewing Engineer and the 
Architectural firm will be before the Board at its June 9th meeting to go over the plan.  
Highfield Village- In House meeting held May 21 st with C. Fleck, Project Engineer, and Reviewing Engineer.  Due to incomplete 
material for a full review, Hearing Continuation will be opened on June 9 th and then recessed to June 23rd.    
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road -   J. Bilotta-Simeone noted that the Police Ch ief and DPW Director  have 
spoken informally with the owner.  Owner is agreeable to moving fence back and lowering the grade .  Board needs to follow up 
and see if any action was taken by the owner.    
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- Approval filed with Town Clerk.  Currently in Appeal Period.   
Whites Woods- No report.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report. 
651 Chase Road Solar - Administrative changes requested.  1) Chase Road front entrance gate location too close to road.  
Emergency vehicles w ould not be able to turn in safely.  Request to move gate into driveway.  2) Fence was going through 
wetlands and would require removal of trees.  Would like to move more into the site.  3) Change gate location on fence encirc ling 
retention pond to allow for easy turning onto road by larger vehicles.  Board had no issues with requested changes.  
265 Pleasant Street Solar- Administrative changes requested.  Change in location of plantings for screening.  Abutter did not 
want berms placed along property line nor plantings right up against stone wall (feeling of being “boxed in”).  Board had no 
issues with requested changes. 
White Tail Crossing-   No report. 
 
ACTION FILE:  
250 Whalom Road, Lunenburg Village- No report. 
MRPC Traffic Count - J. Bilotta-Simeone would like to request intersection of Goodrich Street and Lancaster Avenue.  It was 
noted that traffic counts will be useful to be utilized as the Board moves forward with its Economic Development Element.   
40 Leominster Shirley Road- Waiting response from Historical Commission. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 05.27.14 
Page 3 
 
Village District Draft Bylaw - C. Fleck noted she reviewed the Citizen Survey results.  Draft Bylaw will be provided to Re-Use 
Committee Chair prior to the joint meeting of June 23 rd.  C. Fleck noted that the majority of the Citizen Survey was narrative.  She 
felt the two questions that dealt most ly with the Town Center were #6, “What buildings and/or sites in Lunenburg do you believe 
are worthy of historic preservation efforts?”  Most responses indicated the Town Center needed preservation.  Specific buildings 
noted were Town Hall and the Ritter.  Question #7, “Would you support designing and enlarging the Town Center to include a 
mixture of services and residential development?” There were a variety of respon ses.  117 yes, 66 no.  Some of the responses 
were to- lift sign ban, allow small shops, art galleries, zoning bylaws  too restrictive for business, keep small town feel, coffee 
shops, country stores, more parking, center for crafts, affordable elderly hous ing, better foot traffic flow, health services, public 
transportation.  The recurring theme was for small shops and more walkability.  C. Fleck will summarize for June 23 rd meeting.  
D. McQuaid (as Re-Use Committee representative) working on envisioning session.   
 
NOTICES:  Conservation Commission and abutting communities- Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
June 9, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
June 16, 6:30 PM, Master Plan Workshop 
June 23, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:    E. Bakaysa provided a letter of resignation  from the Planning Board ; resignation being e ffective at the 
meeting’s conclusion. 
 
Motion, J. Bilotta-Simeone to adjourn, Second, D. McQuaid, Adjourned 9:00 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Economic Development Element 
Minutes 5/12/14 
Minutes 5/12/14 Highfield Village Hearing 
Chase Road Solar- Request for Administrative Changes 
Pleasant Street Solar- Request for Administrative Changes 
Village District Draft Bylaw 
Notices 
MRPC Traffic Count Correspondence 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/05.27.14 