===PAGE 1===
 
INITIALS _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Information Meeting (Continuation) 
Force Corp., 305 Leominster Shirley Road 
January 27, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:35 PM 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa 
 
The Information Meeting continuation was to hear and discuss a Development Plan Review under Section 8.4. of the Protective 
Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of a lumber yard and retail store at 305 Leominster Shirley Road.   
 
The initial Information meeting was held on September 23, 2013.  Applicant had to revise his plan.  This  continuation is as a 
result of the December 4, 2013 review by Reviewing Engineer Jesse Johnson, David Ross Associates.   
 
Property owner /Applicant is Force Corporation, 52D Cummings Park, Woburn, MA ; represented by R aouf Mankaryous, Alpha 
Omega Engr., Inc., and Juliano Fernandes, Force Corp.  Applicant will keep the existing building, build a storage warehouse, and 
add parking.  The business is targeted towards contractors; not individual homeowners.   
 
Revised Drainage Analysis and Site Plan submitted. 
 
Lumber will be stored outside with at least ten feet of surrounding access space  requested by the Fire Chief for emergency 
vehicle maneuvering. 
 
An Order of Conditions has been issued by the Conservation Commission.  
 
Revisions were made to bring plan into compliance with Massachusetts Stormwater Management Standards.  
 
J. Johnson noted there is little the applicant can do to the front of the site to dress it up since the Fire Chief wants mane uvering 
space.  Also, the sight line would be diminished if too much is put in.  Fencing added at the rear instead of plantings.  Cannot do 
landscaping with proposed design right up against building  as there is a  driveway on one side of building, parking on the other.  
Given that this is a rehabbed site, flexibility is limited.  Applicant still needs granting of requested waivers. 
 
Applicant is requesting a waiver from Zoning Bylaw Section 6.4.3.5. which states that a 4 foot wide island with ‘Keep Right” signs 
shall be provided for commercial entrance.  This is an existing driveway and the proposed rear parking will be gated and 
restricted for employees only.  
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Information Meeting 
305 Leominster Shirley Road 
Page 2 
 
The Board had concerns with the sight distance; but it was noted that the speed limit in front of the site is 25 MPH.  Applicant has 
provided the minimum sight distance for the posted speed limit.  J. Johnson cannot speak to th e main entrance for the trucks as 
it is not on the Plan.  N. Lockwood wants to see it on the Plan.  J. Johnson did note that if it is not compliant, the Board may 
consider granting a waiver.  J. Johnson noted that in order to not delay the Applicant procee ding, the Board can require specifics 
as part of its Approval. 
 
The applicant is requesting a waiver from Zoning Bylaw Section 4.6.5.2. which states a minimum 4 foot landscaped area along 
the street frontage and along the front and side of the building sha ll be provided.  Asking for a waiver because of the existing 
driveway and proposed septic grading along the east side and the wetland limit of work along the west side.  The Fire 
Department asked to not have potential obstructions located along the front o f the building for fire truck access. 
 
N. Lockwood, Motion to approve the requested waivers, Second, M. Allison, all aye.  
 
Front paving will be replaced with grass.  There is a privacy fence for screening to the right side of the building. 
 
Sharon Jordan, representing the Conservation Commission, noted the applicant has come before the Commission and complied 
with Commission requests.  The Commission requested in addition to the drainage calculations the applicant  reduce the amount 
of impermeable surface close to the wetlands.  Impervious surface in the back along the wetlands has also been reduced.   
 
N. Lockwood, Motion to approve the Plan for 305 Leominster Shirley Road conditional upon applicant providing sight distances 
on Plan, Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
Findings and Directives will be prepared. 
 
Information Meeting closed 7:05 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2013/force corp.305 Leo Shir Rd. 01.27.14 