===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
KONDOWN OPENEDEDIN
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair
Damon McQuaid, Cik.
enneth Chenis, Mt
atthew Allison, ME
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
DIB
INCORVORS
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
December 8, 2014
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney
ANR- Szocik Revocable Family Trust- 545 Massachusetts Avenue- Whitman & Bingham Associates- Plan accepted for
MINUTES APPROVAL:
11/24/14, Motion, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid, minutes signed.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone. Due to finances surrounding state cuts, MRPC no longer planning to relocate. Looking at a $7OK
budget deticit.
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- Committee beginning to prioritize requests.
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- Meeting scheduled for 12/10/14.
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood- No meeting. J. Bilotta-Simeone noted Board of Selectmen voted not to
purchase property at 90 West Townsend Road (Pellerin property).
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid- Committee made a recommendation to the Capital Planning Committee that $28K
be placed aside for a consultant to look at the Town buildings. The issue of the TC Passios property was brought up; A. Burney
noted that he had a meeting with the School Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes and Michael Mackin of the School Committee
regarding same. A. Burney made them aware of the current district setbacks. The Village District Bylaw will probably reduce
those setbacks; therefore, they should use the setbacks in the current bylaw so as not to create a situation where the property
becomes unusable. The Village District will have no determination on where the property line is drawn.
MJTC, K. Chenis. Next meeting 1/21/15.
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison. Next meeting 12/18/14, 7 PM, Ritter Building, which will consist of a discussion
surrounding a public market.
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue- Developer submitted letter requesting release of Letter of Credit as a result of
11/21/14 road inspection by Hamwey Engineering. Funds will be released once as-built is received.
Highfield Village- no report
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- Conservation Hearing held 12/3/14 for Notices of Intent for Lots 5, 6, and 7 for
construction of homes. Progress forms indicate water line installed off street. Road debris was noted at a previous Board
meeting; A. Burney reviewed the Board's Approval and noted daily sweeping is not required (road has since been cleared).
White Tail Crossing- A. Burney provided letter to Building/Zoning Official releasing "cannot be occupied" restriction. A. Burney
spoke with developer Dan Proctor, who indicated that the driveway apron to Lot 2 may be completed next week. All major issues
have been wrapped up.
909 Massachusetts Avenue- Appeal period concluded with no appeals filed.
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 2 9 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 12.08.14
Page 2
Tri Town Landing- Building permits issued for 4th building. Developer has appropriate equipment to work through the winter
months. The Town has received Smart Growth School Cost Reimbursement in the amount of $183,618.00. This is the first year
the Town has received 40S monies.
MS/HS Project- no report.
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- no report
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-
At a previous meeting, Board member noted debris on site.
Correspondence received in the office from a concerned individual stating that the company cleared trees near the river without a
permit. Both M. Marro, the Conservation Commission's Consultant, and the Reviewing Engineer David E. Ross Associates
witnessed the tree clearing and the developer is in compliance.
651 Chase Road Solar-
Project received Certificate of Compliance from the Conservation Commission. Trees (under
warranty) will be replaced in the spring.
265 Pleasant Street Solar-NuGen requested Board approve an administrative change allowing the four utility-owned poles to
remain as they exist today. Motion, N. Lockwood, to endorse NuGen letter, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. Letter signed by
Board.
ACTION FILE:
322 Flat Hill Community Solar- Board decision currently in appeal period. Appeal period concludes 12/15/14.
Village District Bylaw. A. Burney provided updated draft. Removed special permit portion as it was only about building height.
Added parking and dimensional charts. Board to look at - will discuss at 12/22/14 meeting.
Scenic Road- no report
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments- no report
Master Planning- Economic Development Element- A. Burney working on presentation for various Boards.
40 Leominster Shirley Road- no report
MEETING SCHEDULE:
Board discussed whether or not to meet 12/22/14. If no meeting, next meeting not until 1/12/15, which will slow down the Village
District Bylaw. Board consensus was to have a regular meeting on 12/22/14 and include discussion of the Village District Bylaw
during that meeting.
January 12, 6:30 PM, Town Hall
January 26, 6:30 PM, Town Hall
BOARD COMMENT:
M. Allison - Inquired about pavement markings on Reservoir Road which he brought up at a previous meeting. A. Burney noted
that the DPW Director will look into that - it is an operational issue.
N. Lockwood- status of Housing Production Plan (HPP)? Draft submitted to state. On Board of Selectmen agenda for 12/9/14.
After Board of Selectmen approval, will be placed on Planning Board agenda for a final vote and then the final will be submitted
to the state. The Town will have to work on meeting the goals over the ensuing year, and if accomplished, will then reap the
benefits of the HPP
N. Lockwood- status of design bylaw being extended to other districts. Possible for spring town meeting?
A. Burney- Historical Commission taking on first draft of architectural preservation district. N. Lockwood's solar proposal would
come up after the village bylaw.
J. Bilotta-Simeone - brought up signs and parking. A. Burney noted signs are a hard bylaw to pass.
N. Lockwood- action plan for economic development? A. Burney noted it should be put on hold until after the Village District
Bylaw and that an economic development committee should be formed. A. Burney will pursue with the Town Manager.
A. Burney noted it is unlikely that either solar or signs would make a spring town meeting. Focus needs to be placed on fine
tuning the Village District Bylaw and "selling" it to the citizens.
Prioritization as follows:
#1- design of parking spaces
#2- signs
#3- design bylaw
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 12.08.14
Page 3
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Greg Bittner- 129 Pleasant Street - does the sign bylaw affect the entire Town? Yes.
Paula Bertram- (speaking as Board of Selectmen member)- Board of Selectmen has discussed formation of an economic
development committee with the Planning Board playing an integral part. Stormwater management is also a priority with the
Board of Selectmen.
ADJOURNED: 7:30 PM
Documents used at meeting:
ANR, 545 Massachusetts Avenue
Minutes 11-24-14
Letter dtd 11/29/14, John White, Trustee, re: Release of Bond
Letter dtd 12/3/14, A. Bumey, re: White Tail Crossing, Release Form
Letter did 12/2/14, NuGen, re: 265 Pleasant Street Solar Utility Pole Approval
Minutes/2014/12.08.14
