===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
      
 
 
 
Minutes 
August 14, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Time & Place:  
6:00 PM, Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
7:00 PM, Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison 
Also Present:  Chantell Fleck, John Hume, Bobbi Jo Johnson, MRPC 
 
The Charrette/Public Visioning Session began with a walking tour of Town Center.  D. McQuaid led the tour, pointing 
out historical features and community assets.   
 
After the walking tour, the Board reconvened at Town Hall where open conversation took place designed to gain 
public input, insight and ideas concerning any future development of a Village Center District Bylaw. 
 
Five discussion groups were formed  with a Planning Board member acting as facilitator per group.  The five 
questions posed were as follows: 
Question #1- What are the historical features of the Lunenburg Center that you think are worth preserving and how 
should the Town pursue preservation efforts? 
Question #2- Are there any examples of downtown centers in your experiences, and if so, would those experiences 
be an appropriate fit for Lunenburg Center? 
Question #3- The Ritter Building, TC Passios Building, Brooks Ho use, and Old Primary School are public municipal 
assets.  What is the future of each facility? 
Question #4 - What vehicle, bicycle, and pedestrian circulation improvements or changes should be made in 
Lunenburg Center? 
Question #5- What are the environmental, green space, and aesthetic features of the Lunenburg Center? 
 
A report from each group was presented with opportunity for open discussion  (summary of findings  on file in the 
Planning Office). 
 
Adjourned 9:00 PM 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/08.14.14 