===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing (cont’d) 
Highfield Village 
May 11, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   7:20 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney  
 
Vice Chair N. Lockwood opened the Hearing continuation with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise 
on October 27 and November 3, 2014.  Hearing is to hear and discuss a definitive plan per the Rules and Regulations Governing 
the Subdivision of Land and Section 5.6. Cluster Development of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for construction 
of sixty-six (66) dwelling units off the south si de of Northfield Road between Massachusetts Avenue (Map 057, Parcel 0031) and 
Northfield Road (Map 037, Parcel 0009).   
 
J. Godfrey reported to the Board that Project Engineer K. Oldfield will be unable to continue on the project.  He has hired 
Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA) as the new project engineering firm and also retained Attorney Paul Haverty of Blatman, 
Bobrowski, Me ad and Ta lerman.   Atty Haverty, representing J. Godfrey, is concerned with the project moving forward 
expeditiously and also conce rned with there being enough members left on the Board after Town Election to continue this 
Hearing.  He requested the project be continued for 2 -3 months for the benefit of the new engineering firm.  The Hearing will be 
re-noticed at the applicant’s expense to allow the Board in place to be able to vote.  This will “re-set” the process and information 
will be presented as if starting over.  There was Board discussion as to having the applicant withdraw and submit a new 
application versus continuing the Hearing.  J. Godfrey does not want to withdraw his application and pay filing fees again with a 
new submittal.  A. Burney noted that the Board can waive the fees if it so desires.  He also noted that the Board will receiv e well-
reviewed information from WBA.  The EIR is state-approved so it won’t really change.  As part of the continuance, the Board can 
request J. Godfrey look at the newest possible data and plug it into the current Traffic Study.  K. Chenis noted traffic counts were 
done in 2008 and 2010 , showing an 11% increase during that time frame.  The Traffic Study was done in 2009 with data from 
2007.  The Board requested updated traffic counts as part of the resubmittal. 
 
J. Rheault , WBA, supports an extension request to the Board.  WBA will do a compl ete project audit; going through all 
information.  The firm was the original engineering firm for this project and therefore already has data available. 
 
Atty Haverty request ed a three-month extension.  A. Burney recommended the Board extend to the first m eeting in September 
(September 14).   
 
N. Lockwood inquired if various State filings would have to be resubmitted under the new engineer firm and if WBA is refining the 
current documents or changing the plans; they will address the deficiencies in the current plan. 
 
A. Burney noted to the Board they will still receive the same information whether an extension is granted or the applicant has to 
submit a new application. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Highfield Village continuation 
05.11.15 
Page 2 
 
Atty Haverty noted if the Hearing is kept open, there can be a continuing line of communication between the Planning Office and 
both engineering firms. 
 
No comments from the public.   
 
Motion to continue Hearing to September 14, 2015, 6:35 PM, J. Bilotta -Simeone, Second, K. Chenis.  Di scussion- M. Allison 
inquired if a continuance can be made conditional .  He recollected that at the last continuance  it had been discussed if review 
comments were not addressed by this meeting, the applicant was to withdraw.  He also opined that the Town i s not benefiting by 
granting an extension.  Motion amended to include abutter notification, J Bilotta -Simeone, Second, K. Chenis, Roll Call Vote - M. 
Allison, nay; K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuaid, nay; J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; N. Lockwood, aye.  Vote passed 3-2. 
 
Hearing recessed  8:00 PM. 
 
 
 
Public hearing Minutes/2015/highfield village 05.11.15 