===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Informational Meeting 
November 23, 2015 
1 Main Street 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Information Meeting with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and 
Enterprise on November 16, 2015.  The Information Meeting  was to hear and discuss a site plan review under Section 8.4. of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for an outdoor patio dining area and increased signage for the restaurant at 1 Main 
Street, Map 071, Parcel 0095. 
 
Alan Wernick, 48 Holden Road, Shirley, MA , represented th e applicant, Adam Wernick (son) .  The patio will come 1 2’ (twelve 
feet) off the building and follow the length of the building for 50’ (fifty feet).  Signage will comply with the Village Cent er District, 
which becomes effective January 1, 2016.  A. Wernick  received a Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals on October 
5, 2015 for seasonal outdoor dining and an increase in signage as outlined in the proposed Village Center District Bylaw.   The 
patio will be concrete slab, stamped to look like stone.  There will be a 4’ (four foot) high wrought iron /aluminum fence and soft 
lighting which will not be offensive to passing traffic.   There will be an emergency gate in the fencing per the Fire Department.  
Police Chief J. Marino requested bollards be incorpo rated into the fencing on the street side.  The compressors will be fenced off 
from the customers.  No umbrellas or awning planned at this time. 
 
The Board voiced concern with the pa tio, once built, not conforming to the dimensions noted on the application.  A. Burney noted 
that the Board could require an as -built as one of the Conditions , or, once the patio is built, the Building/Zoning Official could 
inspect for conformance.  The Board expressed to A. Wernick that he follow the dimensions  noted in his application with property 
line offsets of thirteen (13’), sixteen (16’) and twenty -one (21’) feet .  The Board brought forth that fact that the Zoning Board of 
Appeals Special Permit noted patio dimensions of 22’ x 28’, but would cede to the Planning Board’s d evelopment plan review 
process for detailed data.   
 
Discussion ensued regarding parking.  Maximum occupancy is 97 persons with or without the patio; therefore, the addition of the 
patio does not increase the occupancy; it increase the seating options.  The parcel on which the restaurant is located 
encompasses various tenants and uses, e.g., bank, post office, retail, with parking wrapping around the back all the way to Town 
Hall.  There is also public parking on the street, by the Teen Center and across th e street by the old primary school.   
 
Tentative hours of operation will be 11:00 AM – 10:00 PM, Monday - Thursday and 11:00 AM – 11:00 PM on weekends.  
(Applicant received approval to 11:00 PM, Monday – Thursday, and 12:00 AM on weekends.)  A. Wernick plans on adding 8 -10 
parking spaces at the rear of the building.  K. Chenis noted that those spaces need to be striped. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Information Meeting,11.23.15 
1 Main Street 
Page 2 
 
The property owner, represented by  Philip Arcidi, opined that the Village Center Distr ict allows plenty of parking options .  With 
the bank expansion in 2002, more spaces were provided beyond what was required.  There is no parking  assigned to individual 
tenants.  Under the Bylaw, 94 spaces are required and 110 are provided for the whole Vil lage property to divide between various 
tenants/businesses. 
 
The Board discussed the Conditions they wanted placed on the project. 
 Any future lighting complies with the Village Center District Bylaw 
 Patio dimensions of 12’ by 50’ with the offset dimensions as noted in the application packet 
 Employee parking (minimum of six spaces) striped and marked as such 
 Fencing be wrought iron or similar in appearance 
 
A. Burney proposed that a plan delineating employee parking be submitted for the record.  
 
Motion. K. Chenis, to approve with Conditions as noted above, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.  
 
Decision to be prepared for Board endorsement. 
 
Information Meeting closed 7:45 PM. 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Site Plan Review Application, 1 Main Street 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2015/1 Main Street_11.23.15 