===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
March 19, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:00 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone 
Also Present:  Amory Phelps, Richard McGrath, Lois Lewis, Cullen Dwyer 
 
JOINT MEETING WITH HISTORICAL COMMISSION 
 
Architectural Preservation District (APD) Bylaw 
 
Noted comments received fro m Bob Ebersole, Damon McQuaid, and Nathan Lockwood.  The Planning Board and 
the Historical Commission reviewed the draft bylaw. 
 
K. Chenis asked the Historical Commission for an update on the bigger picture of the intent of the bylaw.  He noted 
that the language needed to meet the spirit of what the Commission is trying to accomplish.  Commission members 
responded that the intent is to preserve the historical treasures in the proposed District and to maintain the character 
of the Town. 
 
There was discussion  concerning substantial alterations and minor alterations.  K. Chenis noted that only the 
substantial alterations were binding.   Pg 1- Changes will be made to Section 1: Purpose (d), (e), and Section 2: 
Alteration Substantial.   
 
Page 2- Certificate to Alter revised.  Discussion regarding Contributing Property.  Revised to include more than 
just buildings.  Will add in “stone wall”.  Edits made to Demolition by Neglect.   
 
Page 3-  Substitute Siding- deleted.  Section 6(h) also deleted as it references subs titute siding.  Section 5: APDC 
Powers and Duties edited to note both minor/substantial alteration and demolition.   
 
Page 4- Section 6: Exemptions- edits made to (f) and (g).  Deleted (h) as noted above, and (j).  Edits made to 
Section 7:  Administrative R eview/Determination of Applicability including tying in the determination made to 
minor alteration.  Will also note that the outcome will be a determination of applicability requiring binding review or a 
negative determination.  N. Lockwood noted this has to be connected to issuance/non-issuance of a building permit.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 03.19.15 
Page 2 
 
Page 5- Section 8: Binding Review - Edits made to (a) .  It will also be noted that written determination shall be no 
later than 90 days after application submittal instead of the 60 currently in place.  (Same for Section 10: Procedures 
for Issuance and Filing of APDC Determinations.) 
 
Page 6- Section 11: Enforcement revised to include demolition by neglect and to note no building permit for up to 2 
years as determined by the APDC.  
 
Page 7- Section 12: Coordination with Other Town Boards and Bylaws- edited (c). 
 
D. McQuaid, Motion to submit Architectural Preservation District Bylaw as amended with changes as discussed 
tonight, Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
 
Audio recording on file in the Planning Office. 
 
ADJOURNED:  10:30 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Architectural Preservation District Bylaw DRAFT 
03.12.15 email, subject: Architectural Preservation District, author: Rob Ebersole 
03.10.15 email, subject: APD, author: Damon McQuaid 
 
 
Minutes/2015/03.19.15 