===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Information Meeting 
339 Electric Avenue 
September 14, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair D. McQuaid  opened the Information Meeting  with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and 
Enterprise on September 7, 2015.  The Information Meeting was to hear and discuss a site plan review under Section 8.4. of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for a pet service facility at 339 Electric Avenue, Map 93, Parcel 55. 
 
Presentation by project engineer Nicholas Pauling, Goldsmith, Prest & Ringwall, Inc.  Applicant is 3 39 Electric Avenue Corp., 
represented by Kelly Pearson.  The proposal is to demolish the existing monument company and construct a 6,400 square foot 
mixed-use commercial building contain ing both a pet service facility and the monument company.  Ten parking spaces will be 
located at the front of the building.  The Applicant was granted a use permit by the Zoning Board of Appeals on September 9, 
2015.   
 
Reviewing engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc. was unable to attend the meeting ; his August 31, 2015 review letter 
was previously provided to the Board.  N. Pauling had not yet responded to the review letter, as he is awaiting comments from 
other Boards/Commissions before revising the plans.  J. Walsh is also doing the review for the Sewer Commissi on, which is 
currently in process. 
 
M. Allison opined that the parking calculations of 5.1 for the retail (monuments, pet retail and grooming) and 3.9 for the pet care 
area should be rounded individually.  G. Bittner inquired as to number of staff; five at full strength. 
 
Jill Normandin, Central Mass Motorcycles, 321 Electric Avenue  - concerned with pet waste disposal and noise.   N. Pauling 
responded that pet waste will be gathered up and put into garbage cans and then into a dumpster.  The dogs will be under direct 
supervision during the hours of operation.  There will be a six -foot high chain link fence surrounding the pet play area.  Slats are 
proposed for the fence.  The play area will be pervious synthetic turf.   
 
M. Allison questioned dog hair in drains; being addressed with the Sewer Commission. 
 
The grade prohibits separate ingress and egress; therefore the Applicant is requesting a waiver from Regulations of the Planning 
Board of the Town of Lunenburg Governing the Design, Construction, and Maintena nce of Off Street Parking and Loading Areas, 
Section 2.5.3. for the entrance drive to be graded at 3% within thirty (30) feet of the edge of pavement instead of the required fifty 
(50) feet.  A portion of the existing curb cut will be reconfigured to provi de a temporary stopping area for truck unloading and 
bring stones onto the site.  Monument deliveries will be when the other uses are closed. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 09.14.15 
Public Hearing, 339 Electric Avenue 
Page 2 
 
D. McQuaid suggested , and the applicant was amenab le to, an eight -foot solid fence for the benefit of the abutters.  He also 
requested consideration of articulated building façade  to meet the character of the surrounding area as noted in Protective Bylaw 
of the Town of Lunenburg,  Section 4.6.5.2.   N. Paul ing distributed a façade schematic to the Board.  Proposed sidewalk 
overhang extends 4-5 feet.  D. McQuaid would like to see lower overhangs for better sidewalk protection and more articulation  
e.g., covered entry way.  Free-standing, internally lit sign will be located in the southwest corner of the site.   
 
K. Chenis inquired as to snow storage; proposed in the southeast and northwest corners of the site. 
 
The site meets the required 100 foot frontage, but does not meet the lot width of 150 feet due to it s triangular shape.  For this 
reason the side setbacks have been reduced six inches per substandard foot making the side setbacks 7 ½ feet instead of the 
required 20 feet.   
 
The Applicant is requesting the following waivers from the Regulations of the Pla nning Board of the Town of Lunenburg 
Governing the Design, Construction, and Maintenance of off Street Parking and Loading Areas: 
 
Section 2.1.2. – Setbacks; as an exterior loading bay is proposed between the side of the building and side yard setback due to 
lot shape. 
Section 2.4.1.- Screening; reducing twenty-five (25) foot landscaping down to nine (9) feet for screening of the loading bay due to 
its location. 
Section 2.5.3. – Driveway and/or Service Road; putting a maximum slope of 6% vs 3% due to existing grade of Electric Avenue. 
Section 3.3.1. – Curbing, Wheelstops and Islands; to request landscaping bushes in lieu of curbing/wheelstops  due to site grade. 
 
M. Allison noted that Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  Section 4.6.5.2.j) requires parki ng to the rear or side of 
building(s).  Applicant to request a waiver. 
 
Motion to continue Information Meeting to September 28, 2015, 6:35 PM, Town Hall, M. Allison, Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
 
Recessed 7:35 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information Meeting Minutes/2015/339 electric avenue 09.14.15 