===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
April 13, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone 
 
ANRs: 
360/370 Sunny Hill Road- Endorsed by Board. 
790-792 Massachusetts Avenue - Presented by Frank Preston, Whitman & Bingham Associates.  Property being divided into 
two lots.  Plan will be sent out for department/commission/board review. 
 
Village Center District (VCD) Bylaw & Architectural Preservation District (APD) Bylaw:  Discussion with Historical 
Commission-  Discussion centered around whether or not the two Articles should be linked for Town Meeting vote.  F eedback 
received from the Building Reuse Committee and Board of Selectmen varied.  The Building Reuse Committee voted 6 -1 for the 
Articles to be independent of one another.  The Board of Selectmen supports both Articles, but is divided on whether they should 
pass together or independently .  Consensus is that almost everyone supports both of the Articles and would like to see both 
pass.  K. Chenis, N. Lockwood, an d M. Allison support linking the two Articles.  D. McQuaid inquired what is the plan is neither 
passes.  N. Lockwood responded that the Board will then revise the VCD Bylaw.  If the APD Bylaw Article does not pass, N. 
Lockwood was in favor of the Board making the decision on Town Meeting floor  whether or not to withdraw the VCD Bylaw 
Article.  Motion, K. Chenis to create linkage between the two Articles and in the unlikely event the APD Bylaw Article does not 
pass, the Board request to withdraw the VCD Bylaw Article, Second, M. Allison, discussion; R. Lantry of the Historical 
Commission noted that the re would not have been an APD Bylaw without the VCD Bylaw and that they are strongly linked.  A. 
Phelps of the Historical Commission opined that both Articles would pass and thanked the Board for its support.  Roll Call Vote - 
M. Allison, aye; K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuaid, nay; N. Lockwood, aye.  Vote passed 3-1. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
Warrant Article-see separate minutes.   
Highfield Village (continuation)-  see separate minutes. 
 
Minutes Approval: All minutes signed. 
03/23/15, D. McQuaid, Motion to approve, Second, M. Allison 
03/23/15 Warrant Article Hearing, D. McQuaid, Motion to approve, Second, M. Allison 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   absent – no report 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- absent – no report 
School Building Committe e, N. Lockwood -  Project going well.  Behind due to winter weather, but does not jeopardize a 
successful opening.  The “raising” ceremony is April 28 th. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  no report 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid -   Met last w eek.  Discussed the Passios property line.  Will meet with the School 
Committee.  Committee submitted two items  for the Capital Plan; painting of Town Hall, which did not make the final cut, and a 
feasibility study of the municipal buildings.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 04.13.15 
Page 2 
 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  Next meeting April 13th. 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison -  Meeting April 1 6th for discussion of a farmers’ market  schedule and posting of 
regulations. 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Town Meeting, May 2, 2015-  Noted 
Town Election, May 16, 2015- Noted 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road - Progress reports note snow removal.  Perc test planned for Lots 2 and 3 and 
installation of underground electric.  Engineer review notes roadway subgrade and sub -base being installed.  All utilities within 
the roadway appear to be in.  Paving anticipated for April 14th. 
Highfield Village- See above 
1249 Massachusetts Avenue- No report 
White Tail Crossing-   No report   
Tri Town Landing-  No report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  No report   
 
ACTION FILE:  
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments-  no report 
36 Summer Street- no report 
Scenic Road-  Article on Warrant to accept Northfield Road and Flat Hill Road.  D. McQuaid inquired if there are fees and/or 
penalties for violations.  A. Burney to research. 
Master Planning- Economic Development Element-  No report  
Housing Production Plan (HPP)-   Awaiting state approval. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
April 27- Continuation of Warrant Article Hearing followed by regular meeting 
Saturday, May 2- Town Meeting 
May 11- Continuation of Highfield Village Hearing followed by regular meeting 
May 25- NO MEETING- Memorial Day 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
N. Lockwood noted the VCD Bylaw needs minor amendments and question ed if those amendments should be made on Town 
Meeting floor.  A. Burney will supply Board members with a document noting possible amendments and the Board will discuss at 
its April 27 th meeting.  A. Burney will also have a draft Town Meeting handout available for the April 27 th meeting.  N. Lockwood 
noted that he had been contacted by a resident who has a business in the center of Town and would like free -standing signage.   
D. McQuaid feels that Town Meeting floor is not the proper venue for this as this would  be a major change to the VCD Bylaw.   
 
ADJOURNED:  9:20 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
03/23/15 Minutes 
03/23/15 Warrant Article Hearing Minutes 
ANR, 360/370 Sunny Hill Road 
ANR, 790-792 Massachusetts Avenue 
50 Elmwood Road Progress Reports 
50 Elmwood Road Engineer Review 
 
 
 
Minutes/2015/03.23.15 