===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
March 10, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Kenneth Chenis 
Also Present:  Kerry Speidel, Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck, Matt Marro, 
Janice Carrier, John Rabbitt, Todd Dwyer, Carl Luck, Jack Rodriquenz 
 
JOINT MEETING WITH BOARD OF SELECTMEN 
 
Village Center District (VCD) Bylaw  
The finalized version of the Village Center District (VCD) Bylaw was summarized for the Board of Selectmen.  Its 
main purpose is to introduce mixed use development into the proposed Village District.  The majority of the Center is 
currently zoned Residence A, thereby limiting retail/commercial development. 
 
In conjunction with the VCD Bylaw, the Historical Commission is crafting a n Architectural Preservation District (APD) 
Bylaw.  P. Bertram noted that it was intended for the APD Bylaw to be placed on the Warrant before the VCD Bylaw, 
and that if the APD failed to pass, then the VCD would be pulled.  At this time, the Planning Board has not made that 
determination.  R. Ebersole was concerned that the VCD eliminates  lot size in the Center, therefore, there will be 
additional building to encourage density.  Any additional building needs  to be managed with restrictions.  There 
should be another level of review other than just site plan review.  There was some concern w ith the fact that newly 
constructed one-story buildings would be prohibited on lots of less than five acres.  It was felt that this would limit 
various businesses, e.g., banks,  as a second floor would be required.  A. Burney noted that in that circumstance  a 
business would apply for a special permit dimensional variance.  
 
Stormwater Management 
Under the Clean Waters Act, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) created a National Pollutants Discharge 
Elimination System (NPDES) for the treatment and collec tion of stormwater to prevent the impacting of waterways 
with waste.  Within that exist Phase I and Phase II Permits.  Based on size, Lunenburg is a Phase II stormwater 
system (MS4).  Currently Lunenburg is compliant with the original Phase II Permit issued in 2003.  A new draft permit 
was issued this past fall.  Permits are broken down into six categories; 1) public education, 2) public involvement, 3) 
illicit discharge, detection and elimination, 4) construction site runoff, post construction runoff contr ol, 5) pollution 
prevention, and 6) good housekeeping.  Going forward, the EPA will have stricter requirements.  This will create an 
unknown cost and impact  to the Town.  Wet/dry weather monitoring will be a large issue which triggers TMDL [total 
maximum daily loads {nutrient contamination}] requirements.  The Town will have to file a new Notice of Intent (NOI) 
for the Permit.  M. Marro noted the Town will have to contract with an engineering firm to come in and meet the EPA 
requirements.  Large fines are i mposed by the EPA for noncompliance.  The Conservation Commission is in the 
process of updating its regulations for new developments to lessen the impact on the Town’s system.  In the event a  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 03.10.15 
Page 2 
 
septic system maintenance program ne eds to be implemented, the Board of Health needs to be brought on board.  
All Town water bodies and outfalls will have to be tested.  K. Speidel inquired as to what the Town should be doing 
now.  P. Bertram concerned with the cost to the Town when large -scale developments turn over their stormwater 
system to the Town for maintenance.  Need to look at funding resources.  A fee could be put in place through a 
stormwater utility enterprise account with those funds being used only for stormwater activities.   When the final 
Permit is issued, it will be for five years with co mpliance required within the first year.  The Town will have to file an 
NOI within six months of permit issuance, identify water quality monitoring sites and get EPA approval.  
 
The Town needs to look at existing regulations in relation to drainage structures and development to meet standards 
for Town maintenance.  Also need to look at type of equipment to maintain same.  What will be the f unding sources 
for a utility enterprise account?    
 
Planning Board rules and regulations need to be in harmonization with the stormwater bylaw.  What is proposed for 
hardware needs to be compatible with Town equipment.   
 
J. Rabbitt noted the Conservation Commission charter is to ensure the Town meets the intent of the law.   
 
J. Rodriquenz emphasized that the utility enterprise account needs to be established.   
 
T. Alonzo inquired as to anticipated annual cost to the Town.  A. Burney noted the process used in the Town of 
Auburn:  Utilized Geographic Information System (GIS) to come up with an estimate of the average residential unit’s 
impervious surface.  All non -residential uses, Town included, determined their equivalent residential unit coverage.  
That amount was budgeted out.  The Town’s portion was part of the General Budget.   
 
It was noted that t he creation of the utility enterprise account will require Town Meeting vote.  The Board of 
Selectmen should start looking at funding sources.   The Planning Board needs to look at any new developments 
going forward.  If the Town accepts a road, will it be able to maintain it? 
 
If the account is established, it needs to cover all the different aspects that go into maintenance, upkeep and 
expansion of the stormwater system.   
 
A. Burney will investigate the possibility of grant funding.  T. Alonzo requested all boards/commissions/departments 
present submit a summarization to the Town Manager/Board of Selectmen as to how they can address stormwater 
and what they see as potential pitfalls/obstacles to the Town.  
 
ADJOURNED:   9:17 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Village District Bylaw 
 
 
Minutes/2015/03.10.15 