===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
March 2, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid,  Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison , 
Adam R. Burney 
 
PUBLIC DISCUSSION:  Village Center District Bylaw & Architectural Preservation District Bylaw- 
 
Village Center District (VCD) Bylaw: 
 
Changes from the last draft were noted.  9.1)(a) changing the glazing (windows) to encompass 40% to 60%.  5.C.2)  
noting that exceeding 5,000 sq. ft. for retail operations is not prohibited for reuse of existing building.  Will a dd in the 
date of bylaw adoption.  
  
Rebecca Lantry, Historical Commission opined that this bylaw, by making commerc ial property out of residential, will 
push people out of the center of Town.  They did not purchase homes in the center of Town for that quality of life.  D. 
McQuaid noted that this bylaw will promote a sense of community and walkability in the Town Center .  R. Lantry 
noted that the walkability was adversely affected by the construction of Rte. 2A through the center of Town.   
 
A new 8.B. 8) was added stating that no more than 25% of the first floor of a mixed use building can be residential.  
Added in 8.B. 11) noting that  the buildings in the VCD are subject to the requirements of the Architectural 
Preservation District (APD). 
 
R. Lantry noted that once the APD Commission (APDC) is appointed by the Board of Selectmen, the APDC will 
formulate its design guidelines, which will then be reviewed by the Board of Selectmen.  J. Bilotta-Simeone requested 
that a member of the Planning Board be on the APDC .  A. Burney opined that it could involve a large time 
commitment.   
 
M. Allison suggested the APD focus on reuse of existing structures and the VCD focus on new buildings.   
 
9.A new A.1)(b)i. was added stating that buildings in the Village Center Campus Developments would not occupy 
more than 10% residential use on the first floor.  Edit to specify new buildings. 
 
There was discussion on glazing.  Board concensus was to change to transparency to at least 35% and no more 
than 60%.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 03.02.15 
Page 2 
 
Agricultural Preservation District (APD) Bylaw: 
 
R. Lantry gave overview of the APD Bylaw, noting that it is a response to the VCD.  The Historical Commission had a 
short timeline to craft the APD Bylaw.  The APD will overlie the VCD and also encompass the Historical District which 
is the center of Town down Leominster Road to Fairview Road, down Lancaster Avenue to Rolling Acres Road, down 
Massachusetts Avenue to include the Brooks House, down Oak Avenue to just before Passios and down 
Massachusetts Avenue in the opposite direction just missing St. Boniface.  Does not include old primary school. 
 
APDC will be comp osed of a member of the Historical Commission, design professional, craftsperson familiar with 
historic restoration, and two residents of the APD.   
 
There was discussion as to when review is recommended vs. being required.  It was suggested that Section 7  and 
Section 8 be combined and note alterations that would require review.  Review, if required, w ould be triggered when 
a building permit is pulled.  Section 9 (a) change “should be compatible” to “shall be compatible”. 
 
There was discussion regarding enf orcement.  The Historical Commission wanted the APD to specify that 
enforcement shall be compatible with the demolition delay bylaw, and that if violated, no building permit will be issued 
for two years .  The Board had issues with this.  R. Lantry felt rec ourse had to be in place.   A. Burney noted that a 
building permit may be needed within that two year timeframe for an issue other than the original violation.  Consider 
the possibility of other enforcement processes, e.g., fines.  Commission to discuss. 
 
 
Meeting scheduled noted.   
March 9- Hearing for Planning Board warrant articles 
March 23 
April 13 
April 27 
 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
M. Allison requested the Board meet four times/month.  Board to discuss at March 9th meeting. 
J. Bilotta -Simeone requested A. Burn ey write a letter to the Board of Selectmen asking that the May 2015 Town 
Meeting be dedicated to Marion Benson.  Motion, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid, Roll Call Vote- M. Allison, nay; 
K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuaid, aye; N. Lockwood, aye; J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye.  Motion passed 4-1. 
J Bilotta-Simeone tendered her resignation to the Board effective with May 16th Town Election. 
 
Adjourned 9:45 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Draft Village District Bylaw 
Draft Architectural Preservation District Bylaw 
 
 
Minutes/2015/03.02.15 