===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Informational Meeting 
December 14, 2015 
Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Information Meeting with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and 
Enterprise o n December 7, 2015.  The Information Meeting was to hear a nd discuss a proposed 45,000 S.F. office and 
maintenance facility to be located at 357 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. 
 
Applicant is Unitil -Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company, 6 Liberty Lane West, Hampton, NH , represented by the following 
individuals: 
Project Engineers, Jamie Rheault and Mark Piermarini, Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA) 
Legal counsel, Pierce Atwood LLP, Mark Beliveau 
KITE Architects, Inc., Christine West 
Unitil Project Manager, Jacqueline Agel 
Nadeau Corp., Construction Development & Engineering, Ernie Nadeau 
 
Unitil is an e lectric and gas operating utility.  The current distribution and operation center located in Fitchburg, MA will relocate 
to Lunenburg.  The facility will consist of offices, and indoor and outdoor storage .  There will be no vehicle maintenance on site.  
This site will employ approximately 65 individuals.  Unitil is currently in a Purchase & Sales agreement with the property ow ner.  
If all necessary Town approvals are granted, Unitil anticipates beginning constructi on in spring 2016 and hopes to be occupying 
the facility in spring 2017. 
 
J. Rheault noted this is the site of the former Whalom Drive -In and the site is still paved, which is important to the project.  Lot 2 
was created by a Board -endorsed ANR Plan in 198 5.  In 2011  WBA represented the property owner before the Sewer 
Commission for the property to be inclu ded in the Sewer Service Area ; that passed at a Town Meeting vote.  Proposed use is an 
operations and distribution center consisting of administrative of fices, indoor and outdoor storage, warehouse use  for utility 
related equipment and supplies , and indoor  (utility vehicles)  and outdoor parking.  In letter dated October 30, 2015, t he 
Building/Zoning Official communicated to the applicant that due to same, this will be a “by-right” use.  Site consists of 15 ± acres; 
upland area of 8.18± acres.  The actual area of development will be 6.3 acres.  Zoning is Commercial District and the lot 
meets/exceeds all dimensional requirements.  Flow test conducted.  Seventy-five parking spaces are proposed of which four will 
be handicapped.  Dual ingress/egress; one way in, one way out.  Proposed ingress/egress wider than normal to accommodate 
WB109 trucks (truck w/trailer carrying overhanging utility poles).  Trucks will enter a gated area on the right-hand side which is 
not available to the public.  The Fitchburg facility has been completely inventoried so every vehicle has a spot shown on the site 
plan.  No roofing is proposed over the outside storage.  A p hotometric light ing plan  was submitted to the Board; a ll dark sky 
compliant.  There will be pedestrian walkways between the proposed parking areas and the proposed building.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 12/14/15 
357 Electric Avenue (Unitil) Informational Meeting 
Page 2 
 
M. Piermarini made  a present ation on the utilities.  There will be a six -inch water line off Electric Aven ue; two hydrants are 
proposed, one towards the front of the site and the other at the rear.  There will be  a six-inch sewer service into the building  and 
four drains in  the indoor vehicle storage area into an oil/gas trap and then into the sewer main.  A ll drainage is LID (low impact 
development).  Drainage on the left side of the site will go into a grass channel; drainage on the right side will go into a vegetated 
filter strip.  The impervious surface will be going from 6.7 acres to 5.2 acres.   
 
A landscaping plan was submitted with the application packet, but before construction begins that plan will likely be improved 
upon by a landscaping architect and resubmitted.   
 
C. West went over KITE’s architectural plan.  The warehouse portion at the rear of the building has two loading docks.  The 
vehicle bay allows for thru -traffic.  The building has been placed diagonal to Electric Avenue to screen a large portion of the 
utilitarian rear from passersby while also providing a landscape shield.   The building will be of neutral colors with sustainable 
design features.  There will be LED lighting and numerous skylights for day -lighting.  There will be a canopy over the entrance. 
 
WBA submitted two letters to the Board; 1) a  request for  determination under Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg, 
Section 6.4.3.5. in regards to the driveway width directly off Electric Avenue , and 2) a letter requesting a waiver from the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg , Section 8.4.3.1.(f) submission of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) as the 
applicant is treating this site as redevelopment use.   
 
Revisions were made to the plan as a result of December 10, 2015 Graves Engineering  (GEI) review letter and revised plans 
made available to GEI at this meeting’s conclusion.   
 
There was Board concern with chemical runoff from the poles in outside storage close to the we tlands.  J. Rheault noted that 
storage area runoff at the site rear will come into the site and be contained; it will not be flowing into the wetlands.  K. Chenis was 
concerned with snow being plowed through the chain link fence into the buffer zone.  J. Rheault noted there are gates within the 
fence which will be opened a nd the snow “bucketed” over the fence.  It will go into the vegetated strip that will be constructed to 
contain the snow storage.  There was also concern with possible leakage from the stored transformers.  J. R heault noted the 
transformer storage area will be bermed and in case of leakage the spill gates will be shut and runoff will go into an underground 
2,000 gallon concrete tank.    
 
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street - Supports commercial development in Lunenburg.  Seems a viable use for site.  Inquired if 
there are generators on site in the event of a power outage.  There are o il-fired generators on site.   
 
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road– Concerned with contaminated runoff into the  wetlands and inquired if the rear 
fence would be solid or chain-like.  Chain. 
 
C. Luck, 50 Sunset Lane - Noted that the Conservation Commission did a site walk and there were no “red flags”.  He noted 
DEP’s Notice of Intent (NOI) comments; M. Piermarini responded that the DEP issues had been addressed on the revised plan. 
 
John Goguen, 346 Electric Avenue- Concerned with ice melt being used  as there is wildlife in the area and inquired as to hours 
of operation.  Unitil noted typical office hours. 
 
Keith Aubin, 24 Hollis Road - Inquired if a roof could be put on the transformer storage area .  D. McQuaid and K. Chenis also 
asked the same; applicant will research. 
 
The Board asked reviewing engineer Jeffrey  Walsh to comment on Unitil’s request to waiver submittal of an EIS as this is 
considered a redevelopment site.  J. Walsh noted under MA DEP stormwater handbook it would be considered such.  
 
He noted that the materials stored in the bays are located near the wetlands, but any runoff will flow in to the site.  K. Chenis 
asked about runoff from the poles.  J. Walsh noted that  the bins should be set up high enough that the sto rmwater does not run 
onto the base of the pile.  Some of the runoff would stay on site and some would run to the vegetated strip.   
 
He noted the entrance being wider than usual due to trucks coming/going on a regular basis. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 12/14/15 
357 Electric Avenue (Unitil) Informational Meeting 
Page 3 
 
He noted his review letter of 12/10/15 (on file in the Planning Office).  The site has good sight lines.  The site generators produce 
minimal noise.  The sewer main along Electric Avenue is backfilled and graded with an earth mound.  The sewer pipe will have 
only approximately 0.9 feet of cover where it passes under the grass channel.  Unitil may want to consider relocation of the pipe 
to minimize the potential for water freezing within the pipe.     
 
D. Prokowiew inquired about the height of the field to the site rear.  J. Walsh noted the one residential dwelling he saw was  
probably 30-40 feet above the site grade  and is about 200 feet from the project perimete r.  As most of the vegetation is 
deciduous, he had a good view of the dwelling.   
 
The peak rates of runoff will be lessened due to the change in ground cover.  He noted where the snow gets stockpiled will have 
to be cleaned up every year from  sand and grit.  K. Chenis opined that if there was a fence, it could show the limit of how far the 
snow could be pushed.   
 
C. Luck opined that the site is completely overgrown and he did not consider it impervious. 
 
D. Prokowiew inquired if there had been any environ mental issues from transformer storage at the Fitchburg site.  J. Agel to 
research.  J. Walsh noted  another commercial enterprise he had inspected wi th transformer storage and he did not note any 
staining on the pavement.  He also noted that he questioned how impervious the site was with all the broken asphalt, but during 
his site visit he noted standing water at the rear of the site which was indicative of an impervious surface.   
 
The Board discussed the two letters submitted: 
 
 As Unitil is asking for a w aiver from submission of an EIS, D. McQuaid asked if Board members were comfortable 
calling this redevelopment of a site .  J. Walsh noted to the Board they could ask for all of it, waive some of it, or waive 
all of it.  Board consensus was that they would like to see an EIS.  An EIS will be submitted by the applicant. 
 
 Regarding the second letter for a determination of driveway width, K. Cheni s made Motion that the design submitted 
for the site is appropriate ( approve a two-way width of 30 feet each way plus a ten foot rumble strip over the maximum 
of 24 feet), Second, G. Bittner, all aye. 
 
D. Prokowiew, Motion to continue Information Meeting to January 11, 2016, 6:35 PM, Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
 
Information Meeting recessed 9:02 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Unitil, 357 Electric Avenue Application Packet 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2015/Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue_12.14.15 