===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
August 24, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
ANRs:   
466 West Townsend Road -  Presented by property owner Edmond McSweeney.  Existing house on Lot 1 with new septic and 
well.  Plan will create Lot 2.  M. Allison raised the topic of the ANR Plan process, noting that plans submitted sometimes do  not 
contain all the information required by Section 3.2. of the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land.  D. McQuaid 
requested the ANR process be placed on a future Board agenda for discussion.   Plan accepted for review. 
90 West Townsend Road-  Presented by property owner Edmond McSweeney.  Plan accepted for review.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING: 274 Prospect Street- see separate minutes 
 
Minutes Approval:   Motion to sign minutes with amendment, M. Allison, Second, G. Bitter, all aye  excepting D. McQuaid who 
was absent.  08/10/15 minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Building Reuse Committee-  Met August 17th to review RFQ responses for study of Town buildings. 
Capital Planning Committee- Meeting scheduled for September 8th, 4:30 PM. 
Agricultural Commission-  Met August 20th.  Still discussing location of Right-to-Farm signs. 
MJTC- Next meeting in September.  
MRPC- CPTC (Citizen Planner Training Collaborative) planning October and November planning workshops.  D. Prokowiew and 
G. Bittner plan on attending. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- No meeting scheduled.   
School Building Committee-  Met August 14th.  Project 45-50% complete.  Discussed adding a grounds garage. 
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)-  No meeting scheduled. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- Lot 5-  septic and garage doors installed and under agreement.  Lot 2 is a model. 
Tri Town Landing- Decks completed, hallway drywall completed.  Stormwater system installed and inspected.  Developer wants 
to install a second maintenance shed/bike parking combination.  May have to come to Board for minor modific ation, which they 
would be able to do without a public hearing. 
274 Prospect Street- See above.    
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
339 Electric Avenue -  Application received for Leo minster Monument site.  Public Hearing scheduled for September 14 th.  
Special Permit granted by Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) in 2009 has expired.  Applicant has to appear before the ZBA.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 08.24.15 
Page 2 
 
Bylaw Updates-  Board reviewed changes made to Site Plan Approval as a result of discussion at the previous Board meeting.  
A. Burney will make changes and Board will re-review at its September 14th meeting.  Discussion included, but was not limited to, 
D.2) Driveways and Curb Cuts, adding dark sky compliant to D.9) and E.11), discussio n on creating a lighting bylaw.  A. Burney 
will put together a draft rules and regulations booklet for Board review for the end of September encompassing site plan approva l 
and special permits.   
Section 6.1. - Tabled to beginning October.   A. Burney distributed a sample parking bylaw to Board members and suggested 
they also look at parking bylaws of other communities.       
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
September 14 – hearings for Highfield Village and 339 Electric Avenue 
September 28 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: 
G. Bittner- 
 Noted that at the last Board meeting the Board voted to waive the ANR Plan resubmittal fee for Easter Brook Road.  
He opined that in the future the Board should not make that  decision until an ANR has been re -submitted due to 
possible lengthy time lapse between initial submission and resubmittal. 
 Noted having the Building/Zoning Official following up on the enforcement of Board conditions for site plan approvals.  
 Noted an upco ming community fair at which the Town has requested a booth to publicize individuals becoming 
involved in Town government. 
M. Allison noted he had sent an electronic mail to the Town Manager and the DPW Director regarding Bay State Roads Program 
and strongly recommended that at least one Town staff member attend.   
D. Prokowiew asked for Board feedback as to resolving issues when the Board  is in receipt of what could turn into a  contentious 
application.  Board members noted they have to decide between what is legal and what is desirable; also to let the citizens know 
they have been heard and the Board will do what they can to address the issues.  
 
Motion to enter into Executive Session, not to return to Regular Session. M. Allison, Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
 
ADJOURNED:   9:37 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 08/10/15 
ANR Plan, 60 West Townsend Road 
ANR Plan, 466 West Townsend Road 
Site Plan Approval working document 
 
 
Minutes/2015/08.24.15 