===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing (cont’d) 
Highfield Village 
April 13, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  7:50 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone  
 
Vice Chair N. Lockwood  opened the Hearing continuation.  Hearing is to  hear and discuss a definitive plan per the Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision o f Land and Section 5.6. Cluster Development of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of 
Lunenburg for construction of sixty -six (66) dwelling units off the south side of Northfield Road between Massachusetts Avenue 
(Map 057, Parcel 0031) and Northfield Road (Map 037, Parcel 0009).   
 
Revised plans were submitted to Reviewing Engineer Rob Oliva, David E. Ross Associates during the week of February 16 th.  
The Hearing was continued from February 23, 2015  to allow  R. Oliva sufficient time to review the revisions.  John Godfrey, 
applicant, noted the project engineer Kent Oldfield has been working on addressing the outstanding items noted in the April 6, 
2015 review letter.  If K. Oldfield is unable to satisfy the outstanding items by April 27 th, J. Godfrey will engage  an additional 
engineering firm for assistance; possibly Weston & Sampson.  J. Godfrey requested the Board continue the Hearing to the first 
Board meeting in May.  N. Lockwood is concerned with Board member turnover due to term expiration and a resignation .  The 
Board will have only three members after May 16 th elections.  A. Burney n oted that any new members coming onto the Board 
would be ineligible to participate in the project.  The project could move forward if the remaining three members all vote in  the 
affirmative.  If the Board vacancies are filled, for  the submittal to be heard by a full Board, it would  have to be withdrawn and 
resubmitted.  He cautioned J. Godfrey against using Weston & Sampson as they are the firm that reviewed the sewer plans.  J.  
Godfrey responded that Weston & Sampson has brought another engineer on board that has not been on this project.  K. Chenis 
was concerned with some of the  material being from 2005, e.g. Traffic Study, and that the figures may be obsolete today.  Could 
the Traffic Study be redone with current data?  A. Burney noted that the EIR had been filed.  J. Godfrey noted that one specific 
traffic issue was turning traffic lanes  and that they have provided for dealing with increased traffic flow.  There is a traffic study in 
the final EIR.  A. Burney noted that the Board could r equest the applicant do an updated traffic study as part of the approval, but 
could be on shaky ground as this was performed in the past .  M. Allison stated that he would not vote for this and hopes that the 
applicant withdraw and resubmit.  N. Lockwood stated that this is currently in the hearing process and there are open issues that 
need to be resolved.  J. Godfrey is concerned that a resubmission ma y not make use of the current EIR.  He reite rated his 
request for a continuance to the first Board meeting in May stating that at that meeting he would be willing to wit hdraw and 
resubmit if the outstanding items haven’t been satisfied.  A. Burney noted that the EIR may need to be reviewed .  M. Allison, 
Motion to continue hearing to May 11, 2015, 6:35 PM, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.  D. McQuaid requested a comprehensive 
package from the applicant that the Board can understand.   
 
Hearing recessed 8:50 PM. 
 
 
 
Public hearing Minutes/2015/highfield village 04.13.15 