===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
November 14, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Damon McQuaid 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
10/24/16- Minutes accepted.  G. Bittner noted he misspoke that the Green Community Task Force had committed funds.  Those 
funds have not yet been committed to the two audits.   
10/24/16- 1034, 1048 & 1054 Northfield Road- Minutes accepted. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force -   Met with  individual who will be assisting in preparation of the MS4 permit and Notice of Intent.   
Individual waiting for contract to be signed to commence work.   
Agricultural Commission-    Farmers’ Market done for season. 
Building Reuse Committee-   No report – Board representative not available.  
Capital Planning Committee-  No report – Board representative not available. 
School Building Committee-  Expected school completion in D ecember.  MSBA (Massachusetts School Building Authority) will 
hold an audit once all invoices are received.   
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)-  No report. 
MJTC-   October 19th meeting held due to time-sensitive amendment for land purchase by December 1 st for the Twin Cities rail 
trail.  As a result, budget changes have been made to the TIP  (Transportation Improvement Program) .  One of the discussion 
items was to push the Summer Street project out one year from FY2017 to FY2018.   
MRPC-   No report. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  Agenda was posted for discussion regarding 200 Reservoir Road, Ch. 61B.  A quorum was 
not available for the posted meeting, so an informal discussion took place instead.  The Committee felt that the property was  
viable only for the Water District as the Lunenburg Water District owns property directly abutting 200 Reservoir Road.  The Water 
District Superintendent noted to A. Burney that the District did not see any real value to the Town purchasing the property.  The 
subject parcel is also directly adjacent to the Lunenburg Sportsmen’s Club.  Firearm regulations prohibit discharge 500 feet from 
an occupied dwelling and 150 feet for a travelled way.  Consequently, some Board member s voiced concern with the possible 
shutdown of a long-term club if the property is taken out of Chapter and sold as residential lots, but that falls outside the Board’s 
area of consideration for ROFR.  Motion, K. Chenis, to convey to the Board of Selectmen there is no impact on planning 
and land use  in passing  over the First Right, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.   Notes from the Open Space Committee 
discussion will also be forwarded to the Board of Selectmen along with Board concerns about the Sportsmen’s Club.    
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
357 Electric Avenue (Unitil)-  Work continues.  Anticipate becoming operational sometime in 2017. 
270 Electric Avenue (storage units)-   Work continues.  Steel and sheathing up on second building.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 11.14.16 
Page 2 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
1034, 1048 & 1054 Northfield Road- Decision endorsed. 
200 Reservoir Road, Ch. 61B- See Open Space Ad Hoc Committee above. 
Definitions and Use Table -  Drafts distributed to the Board.  The Use Table contains what is currently in the prose of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg .  The overlay districts will be added to the Use Table.  G. Bittner requested Use 
Table be edited to note whether special permit is required by Planning Board or Zoning Board of Appeals.  K. Chenis provided A. 
Burney with a sample table from another commun ity.  He also noted that the Board’s definitions should not be in conflict with the 
Commonwealth’s definitions.  The Board had a lengthy discussion of Definitions Draft 2.  There was discussion on whether or not 
to allow drive-through windows; possibly mak e it an accessory use allowed only in specific districts or have it permitted only by 
special permit.  Have a definition for curb -side service?  Two-Family Dwelling  will exclude over/under as this is no longer 
allowed under the Building Code; must be side by side (A. Burney will verify with Building Official) .   Multi-Family Dwelling will 
be edited as garden apartments are allowed over/under.  A Mixed -Use Definition will be added.   Town House will be capped at 
five dwelling units.  The Building Official rec ommended that the detached option should be removed from Accessory Dwelling 
as this then creates two separate dwellings.  K. Chenis opposed this as it then means you cannot have an in -law apartment over 
a detached garage.  K. Chenis opined that Educational Use precluded vocational schools – A. Burney to check.  Add mental 
health services into Hospital.  Public Utility  – add in licensing by the DPU.  A separate definition will be created for movie 
theaters.  Minor edits will be made to Private Club and Private Camp.  The definition of Agriculture was taken from the Town’s 
Right-to-Farm Bylaw.  There was discussion as to the possible inclusion of maple sugaring.  A. Burney will check.  Veterinary 
Hospital will be broadened for “prevention of animal health cond itions” instead of “prevention of animal diseases”  and type of 
animals will be expanded.  Veterinary Hospital will also be divided into small and large.   A more in depth look will be taken into 
Restaurant and Restaurant, Carry -Out.  A definition will be cr eated for establishments where individuals pay for 
services/training, e.g., karate studio.  Drive-Through Window  will be changed to Drive -Through Service  and will specify 
individual remaining in the vehicle.   A. Burney will compare the Commonwealth’s defin ition of Bed and Breakfast to see how it 
compares with the Town’s definition.  Gasoline Service Station  will be changed to Fuel Service Station.  Vehicle detailing will 
be added into Car Wash.  Repair Shop will be edited to delete “household, rather than b usinesses”. Industrial Parks  will be 
edited to specify “two or more separate lots  or industrial buildings ” in place of “two or more separate industrial buildings”.  
Distribution – change “distribution” to “shipment or movement”.   
 
Public Records Law, Info rmation Session-  A. Burney and M. Boggio attended November 10 th Information Session presented 
by KP Law. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
November 28-  Special Town Meeting – no Board meeting 
December 12 
December 26-  Town Offices Closed – no Board meeting 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  9:25 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 10.24.16 
Minutes 10.24.16- 1034, 1048 & 1054 Northfield Road 
Board Decision- 1034, 1048 & 1054 Northfield Road 
Definitions, DRAFT 2 
Use Table  
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/11.14.16 