===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Information Meeting 
April 11, 2016 
36 Summer Street 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Information Meeting was to hear and discuss a site plan review for a two -story addition to an existing commercial building at 
36 Summer Street.   
 
The Applicant, Peter Kelly, was represented by William Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering (HE), Inc.  The current building is an 
automotive dealership with repair bays.  The proposed addition , with a 52 x 40 foot footprint, will be located on the west side of 
the existing building and contain two stories .  The second floor will be utilized as an apartment with two parking spaces provided.  
The ground floor will consist of two additional garage bays.  The site entrance consists of asphalt pavement with surrounding 
areas at the front of the building being a regrind b ase.  The original regrind areas will be paved.  This area will be used for 
vehicle display.  The remaining site is grass and brush.  Apartment access will be at the building rear.  No significant impact on 
traffic is expected.  Parking for the business is provided on the east side of the entrance.   
 
The application was sent out for departmental review  with no issues being raised.  K. Chenis requested A. Burney follow -up with 
the Fire Chief as to emergency vehicle access at the building rear.  Due to its size, the building will require sprinklers.    
 
A revised plan was presented as a result of the Graves Engineering (GEI), Inc. April 8, 2016 review letter.  The revised plan 
annotates and labels usage of the parking spaces on the northwest side of the prope rty, existing signage will not change, 
perimeter planting is shown with legend added .  The A pplicant is not expecting any more dust than that associated with the 
construction of a single family house, no hydrology calculations were done as the Applicant anticipates both pre- and post- runoff 
will remain the same.   
 
The Board wanted to ensure stormwater management had been addressed.  HE noted the existing site drains towards the street  
and that impact to surface waters and groundwater was restricted by the  operation requirements and regulations regarding 
handling, storage, and disposal of oils were in place.  K. Chenis stated that the stormwate r discharge would be greater than that 
currently existing.  HE responded that calculations were not done as drainag e on a site this small would not be significant.  He 
noted he could provide some type of drainage, e.g ., leaching catch basin.  Curbing will be provided on the parking side (east) of 
the site.  The existing sewer wraps around the proposed addition.  The existing building will utilize public water and the sewer 
lines located within Summer Street.  A. Burney noted the Applicant will need to modi fy its permit with the Sewer Commission.  
Gas and oil separators are already installed for the existing bays.  HE no ted he can do a gutter and downspouts at the rear of the 
apartment to tie into a two foot crushed stone trench around the north and west sides that will also receive the parking lot runoff .  
Snow clearing and removal notes will be added to the plan. 
===PAGE 2===
 
36 Summer Street Information Meeting  
04.11.16 
Page 2 
 
Motion, K. Chenis, to approve the application for site plan review with  Conditions as noted below , Second, D. Prokowiew :  All 
aye. 
 The Applicant will comply with all other boards/commission regulations/bylaws. 
 The Applicant will comply with all local, state, and federal regulations. 
 Runoff from the roof drains will be infiltrated. 
 The Applicant will build to the specifications of the Board-approved Plan. 
 The Applicant will install roof drains at the back of the building. 
 All loading and unloading will be done on premises. 
 There will be a two foot trench drain along the north and west sides. 
 The site shall be kept swept and clean during construction. 
 Stormwater management notes will be added to the Plan. 
 
 
The Plan will be revised as a result of this evening’s meeting and a signature block added.  
 
Information meeting closed 7:40 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
 
Application 
Plan amended to 4/11/16 
Site Photographs 
GEI Review Letter dtd 4/8/16 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2016/36 summer Street_04.11.16 