===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
274 Prospect Street 
September 12, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time: 7:16 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Clerk opened the Hearing with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on August 25 and 
September 1 , 201 6.  The Hearing is to hear and discuss applications for special permit under Section 4.12. Lake Whalom 
Overlay District and site plan approval under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for a 22 -unit 
townhouse development at 274 Prospect Street, Map 98, Parcel 10.   
 
The Applicant was r epresented by Wesley Flis, Whitman and Bingham Associates (WBA).  The following handouts were 
presented to the Board:   
 WBA letter dated 9/12/16 requesting Board clarification as to what the Board would like to see for Impact Reports per 
Section 4.1.f.25.h of the Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, June 27, 2016.  Traffic 
Impact Statement- due to the smaller size of the project, plus traffic going to the roundabout, the Applicant did not feel 
it would be required.  Stormwater Impact- a Stormwater Management System Design report and calculations has been 
provided.  Public Services and Fiscal Impacts- anticipate impact being school children.  Environmental Impacts- opined 
that not all those listed apply.  Community Impacts - opined ties in with Fiscal Impacts.  Would like to combine 
Community Impacts and Fiscal Impacts.   
 Unit rendering 
 Draft proposed Site and Grading Plan showing a reduction in number of units  from 22 to 20 and unit location altered. 
 
One of the Impact Report r equirements is for Traffic Impact.  WBA opined that the previous  Traffic Impact Report done for 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom should be sufficient.  M. Allison responded that the roundabout may have been included in that 
study, but not necessarily Kimball Street and Pond Street.  He would like to see  a sight distance, turn and volume analysis at the 
intersection of Kimball and Prospect.   
 
WBA gave site overview.  (These comments refer to the plan submitted on August 18, 2016 and not the DRAFT submitted this  
evening.)   The site consists of 3.5 acres with frontage on three streets.  Proposal is for 22 units; eight at the north end of the site 
and fourteen at the south.  There will be two entrances; one on Pond Street and one on Kimball Street.   The access drive is 24 
feet wide.  Each driveway is at least 19 feet in length , meeting the Town’s requirement .  Twelve common parking spaces , 
centrally located, are shown on the Plan.  It will have municipal water and sewer.  As a result of the 9/7/16 in house tech 
meeting, the hydrant will be relocated slightly to the south of its current proposed location so as not to be impacted by snow 
removal.  There will be a six foot minimum diameter manhole to allow for piping as well as inspection/work space.  Stormwater is 
overland flow into two swales.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 274 Prospect Street 
Pg 2 
 
WBA went over Graves Engineering Inc. review letter of September 8, 2016  (on file in the Planning Office) .  Adjustments will be 
made to the hydrology calculations so both the computations a nd elevations shown on Plan are consistent.  The Applicant is 
requesting feedback from the Board as to the peer review er’s suggestion that the minimum driveway length should be no less 
than 22 feet.  WBA opines they would have to shrink the internal road width from 24 to 22 feet to accommodate the increased 
driveway length (from 19 to 22 feet) .  Only the entrance on Pond Street will be used as a construction entrance.  The Kimball 
Street entrance will be barred during construction.   
 
Since the August 18 th submittal the Applicant has been doing some market research and is, this evening, presenting a DRAFT 
work-in-progress plan with 20 units , 30 x 42 feet ; both tri - and duplex, with a height of 24 feet .  The unit locations have been 
altered which results in loss of some common parking spaces.  The road has been reduced to 22 feet and the driveways are now 
22 feet.  Bedroom count has not changed. 
 
D. McQuaid noted the Purpose of Section 4.12. Lake Whalom Overlay District ; “… protect the historic features of the 
area…encourage sound economic development, protect the adjacent neighborhood, and respect adjacent natural features…with 
minimum environmental and traffic impacts.” .  He is asking for site elevations by an architect and notes that the current 
presentation is too monotonous.  D. Prokowiew notes that it needs to look less “stark”.   K. Chenis opined that it is too dense  at 6 
units/acre.  He is looking for 3.5 – 3.9 units/acre.   WBA noted a June 1 6, 2016 letter from the Building/Zoning Official to the 
Applicant in which the Building/Zoning Official notes “… the per acre unit density for every lot in the Whalom Overlay District is 
eight units per acre.”  The Applicant is looking for 5.5 units/acre.   
 
Board members noted that the units face onto the drive running through the site with the rear of all units to the neighborhood ; 
they would like a view of the unit layout from the lake , and views throughout the development.  The Applicant was complimented 
on the addition of sidewalks on Pond and Kimball Streets. 
 
James Xarras (identified himself as beneficiary of the Trust) , 9211 Blind Pass Road, Sarasota, FL – noted this evening’s 
presentation is simply a blueprint of the Applicant’s intent.  The rear of the units are attractive with windows, but they can be 
rotated to make them more attractive to the abutters.   
 
WBA inquired as to modifying the offsets, but A. Burney note d that cannot be done as the site does not meet the 10 acre 
requirement in Section 4.12.5.2.  The Applicant would have to approach the Zoning Board o f Appeals  for a special permit 
dimensional variation.  
 
The updated Plan will have runoff more evenly dispersed between the units.  Grading will be updated.  
 
A. Burney recommended to the Board that continuing peer review be put on “time out” while the Applicant and the Board discuss 
density and layout. 
 
The following citizens provided comments: 
Lois Lewis, 389 Sunnyhill Road (owns property at 4 Kimball Street)   
Becky Lantry, 251 West Street 
Courtney Martineau, 30 Pond Street 
Sharon Albert, 5 Pond Street 
Jill Normandin (developed 36 and 38 Kimball Street) 
Lisa O’Leary, 36 Kimball Street 
 
Comments included: 
The effect of the development on the neighborhood. 
Density is not consistent with neighborhood. 
Unit height affecting the view of the lake. 
Will any of the units be “55 and over” or affordable? 
Will there be sidewalks and streetlights? 
Lake access and the amount of rotary traffic.   
Emerald Place traffic study is ten years old.  There needs to be a new one for this site.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, 274 Prospect Street 
Pg 3 
 
Impact on the school system in Town. 
Does not fit the character of Lunenburg. 
Where would people park once the “common” parking was full?   
There are other development possibilities for this property.   
 
The citizens were in agreement that a traffic study should be done. 
 
The Board brought up the possibility of turning Kimball into a one -way street.  As the Board of Selectmen acts as the Road 
Commissioners, this would fall under their authority.    
 
A. Burney noted that under Section 4.1.2.1. of the Protec tive Bylaw, “A development containing ten (10) or more units shall set 
aside ten percent (10%) of the units as moderate or low income units.”   
 
Board members would like to see the following impacts addressed:  Community, Public & Fiscal, and Traffic . 
 
A. Burney will follow up on requested information from Town Counsel as to Board authority over  directing ownership model, i.e., 
owning/renting units.   
 
Board members inquired as to  a lighting plan, identification of a bus stop, mailbox locations, and manner of trash removal.  D. 
McQuaid wants to see an architectural design that considers the neighborhood. 
 
D. McQuaid made Motion to continue the Hearing to the October 24 th Board meeting, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye. 
 
Hearing recessed 9:06 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
 
Special Permit Application 
Site Plan Approval Application 
WBA letter dated 9/12/16 
Unit rendering 
Draft proposed Site and Grading Plan showing a reduction in number of units from 22 to 20 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2016/274 Prospect Street_09.12.16 