===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Informational Meeting (cont’d) 
January 11, 2016 
Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:00 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Information Meeting continuation with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel 
and Enterprise o n December 7, 2015.  The Information Meeting was to hear and discuss a proposed 45,000 S.F. office and 
maintenance facility to be located at 357 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. 
 
Applicant is Unitil -Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company, 6 Liberty Lane West, Hampton, NH , represented by the following 
individuals: 
Project Engineers, Jamie Rheault and Mark Piermarini, Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA) 
Legal counsel, Pierce Atwood LLP, Mark Beliveau 
KITE Architects, Inc., Christine West 
Unitil Project Manager, Jacqueline Agel 
Nadeau Corp., Construction Development & Engineering, Ernie Nadeau 
 
Revised plans were submitted to Graves Engineering Inc. ( GEI) on December 15, 2015  as a result of the December 14, 2015 
Information Meeting.  Questions brought forth by the Board on December 14 th were addressed by legal counsel Mark Beliveau 
through handouts.  The handouts covered management of oil -filled electrical equipment, pole storage area, snow/ice treatment 
materials, and oil and fuel containment product information and application guide from Solidifi cation Products International Inc. 
(SPI) for flush mounted Petro-Plug.   
 
Oil-filled electrical equipment will be managed and handled in the hazardous waste accumulation area, the PCP evaluation area  
(both inside the building within a bermed area), and transformer storage area located outside at the back of  the lot to temporarily 
store new and used electrical equipment.  The area has a paved impervious surface with a six-inch berm on all sides.  Also a 
catch basin and underground 2,000 gallon tank.  The ca tch basin will outlet to the south and the discharge pipe will be fitted with 
a patented Petro-Barrier, e.g., Petro -Plug that allows water to pass through while blocking oil.  The barrier solidifies if contacted 
by oil. The manufacturer recommends replacement once a year if it has not solidified.   
 
M. Beliveau went over Unitil’s protocol for used electrical equipment coming in from the field.  It is inspected in the field  and if it is 
leaking it will be containerized in the field or the oil will be removed  prior to transportation and containerized.  If it cannot be re -
used it will be treated as hazardous waste.  If it can be returned to stock, the PC P concentration must be known.  New 
equipment is required to have a plate on it listing what is in it.  If the equipment can be re-used, it goes to an outside storage area 
and placed on pallets.  Nothing goes directly from field to outside storage.   
 
The Petro-Plug process was explained to the Board.  M. Allison would like to see the drainage calculations inv olved with the 
process. 
===PAGE 2===
Unitil Information Meeting (cont’d) 
01.11.16 
Page 2 
 
M. Beliveau noted there had been only one hazmat incident at the Fitchburg facility within the past ten years; in 2005 in whi ch an 
employee noticed an oil stain in the parking  lot.  MA DEP was notified; a local environmental firm took soil samples and 
concluded there was no substantial risk.  No further action was required. 
 
The Board questioned Unitil’s reluctance to place a roof, e.g. canopy, over the outside storage for protection  from the elements.  
M. Beliveau noted it would be impractical due to the need to bring equipment in and out.  Also, the roof would have to be 
extremely high in the pole storage area.   
The wood poles will be treated with pentachlorophenol (PCP or penta).  The poles will be stored on concrete footings and/or 
metal racks.  This will minimize rot as air can circulate around the poles.  It will also provide for easier inspection acces s.  The 
surface under the poles is impervious and contained on all sides by a  six-inch perimeter berm.  The poles are water resistant.  
Stormwater within this area will discharge to sheet flow through a Petro -plug-box within the berm.  Unitil has met with the 
Conservation Commission to discuss ways to address the PCP.  (K. Chenis would like to see documents regarding the PCP to 
see if it triggers the barrier.) 
Unitil, in discussion with the Conservation Commission, will give consideration to switching the pole storage (in the 100 foot 
buffer) and pipe storage areas.    
 
Snow/ice treatment will consist of a mix of sand and salt in the parking areas and on the site’s internal roads.  
 
There are five dumpsters located on site.  No hazardous materials will go in the dumpsters.  There is also a meter recycling 
dumpster. 
 
J. Rheault noted that the distance from the rear property line to the nearest proposed unit in the possible 40B project is 160± 
feet. 
 
The Board questioned if the 30 foot buffer zone would be delineated in any fashion post-construction.  Unitil is not working in the 
30 foot buffer zone; therefore it will be fully vegetated.  Unitil could place large boulders and/or signage.  They are willing to 
discuss this with the Conservation Commission. 
 
Snow storage at right rear of site will be in the 50-foot buffer but not in the 30-foot no touch.  Snow storage is also located at the 
left rear and a new area of storage has been designated at the front left side of the site.   
 
An EIS was distributed at the meeting.  The Board will review and pose any questions to A. Burney  prior to the next continuation 
for response from J. Rheault. 
 
The revised plans submitted to GEI at conclusion of the first meeting were reviewed and a letter issued on December 31, 2015.  
The comments addressed in GEI’s initial review letter were addressed.  
 
The landscaping plan will evolve over time and be resubmitted to the Board at a future date.   
 
The Board inquired if the chain link fence could be solid.  J. Rheault noted possible vertical slats in the chain li nk or something 
similar. 
 
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road- concerned with cumulative effects of penta on the site due to proximity to wetlands.  
 
Motion, K. Chenis, to continue the Information Meeting to February 22, 2016, 6:35 PM, Second, M. Allison, all aye.  
 
Recessed 8:50 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Aerial/GIS view of site 
Pole Storage Area Handout 
Snow/Ice Treatment Material Handout 
Petro-Plug Informational Sheet 
Oil-Filled Electrical Equipment Management Handout 
Site Plan Revised 1/11/16     Minutes/information meetings 2016/Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue_01.11.16 