===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
October 24, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
ANR PLANS: 
925 Chase Road -  Plan presented by Ed Boucher , PLS.  An ANR Plan endorsed in 1980 shows 50.02 f eet of frontage for 22 
Boucher Road; this is incorrect.  There are only 28.46 feet of frontage.  This Plan will create Parcel A to deed to the property 
owner(s) to create the required frontage on Chase Road to make this lot buildable.  Plan endorsed.   
675 Reservoir Road - Plan presented by Larry Sabean, Hannigan Engineering.  667 and 675 Reservoir Road have been in 
contiguous ownership since 19 79 and recently purchased this year by Reservoir Road LLC.  In 2006 Lot 2A was divided into  a 
smaller lot.  The owner wants to increase Lot 2A to have frontage on Lake Shirley.  Two lots will still remain.  The area and 
property lines will change.  Plan endorsed.   
 
493 Massachusetts Avenue, Waiver Request -  Property and business owner Tanner Cole, Gatsby Grounds Company, Inc. 
requested a waiver from the Board’s site plan approval process.  He is utilizing the existing space with no structural cha nges to 
the building, parking lot, or driveway.  The building is not on sewer, but does have a passing Title V.  There are only three  office 
staff; himself, his mother and his wife.  Motion, K. Chenis, to grant the waiver from the site plan approval proces s, Second, 
M. Allison, all aye. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
1034, 1048 & 1054 Northfield Road - see separate minutes  – Motion, K. Chenis, to approve tree cuts as proposed in the 
presented scenic road proposal, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.   
274 Prospect Street (con t’d)- Correspondence received this date in the Planning Office from Whitman & Bingham Associates 
on behalf on the Applicant, Apple Tree Realty Trust.  Correspondence requested the Board continue the Public Hearing to the 
Board’s January 23, 2017 meeting.  Discussion ensued.  A. Burney noted that as the Applicant is compiling a traffic analysis, he 
expects the Board will see a refined plan at the January 23 rd meeting.  Board members had hoped to see a proposal of the 
direction the Applicant was moving toward s.  It was noted that this evening’s continuation was in anticipation of the Applicant 
bringing forth possible concept ual layouts .  Motion, D. Prokowiew, to a ccept extension request to Januar y 23, 2017, 
Second, G. Bittner, Discussion- Board members voiced frustration with the time that has lapsed with this  project and asked A. 
Burney what is a reasonable timeframe to allow projects to continue.  A. Burney responded that is  usually dependent on the 
project and the time needed to move through iterations and f inalize a design.  Six months or longer is not unreasonable if there 
are concept changes; all aye.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL, 9/26/16- Minutes signed.  Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 10.24.16 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force-   Discussed feedback on Request for Quotes (RFQ) .  Went with initial quote which was brought to the 
Select Board.     
Town Manager Search Committee -  Committee is disbanded.  Names of final three candidates forwarded to the Board of 
Selectmen.   
Agricultural Commission-      October 30th will be the last Farmers’ Market for this season. 
Building Reuse Committee -  A. Burney attended.  Committee looked at draft Request for Proposals ( RFP) for the five 
properties and one that would cover all five of the  properties.  Committee will review proposal criteria.  Interim Town Manager 
and A. Burney are collecting additional property data.  A. Burney has been tasked to look at potential costs of a redevelopment 
authority which would manage the funds and the properties.   
Capital Planning Committee-  Committee has met with the Police and Fire Chiefs.  Will be meeting next with the DPW Director.  
School Building Committee -  Finishing up with the sod.  Bleachers are in.  Project came in under budget.   Greenhouse 
expected to be operational November 1st.   
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)- Had $20,000 ± available to commit funds.  Funds committed for a lighting audit and for 
a study of  possible oil to gas conversion  at the public safety building  at a cost of $9,000  - $10,000 ±, and audit at THMS to 
tighten the building envelope, i.e., reduce energy costs through energy improvements, and also lighting at the school.     
MJTC-   K. Chenis was unavailable for the last meeting.  Minutes not yet published.  
MRPC- Meeting October 25th. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report  
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
357 Electric Avenue (Unitil)- Area continuing to be cleared. 
270 Electric Avenue (storage units) -   Construction continues.  Applicant hopes to have the first building (with th e office) open 
and functioning in November.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
Special Town Meeting-  Noted November 28th Special Town Meeting.  No articles submitted by the Planning Board. 
Public Records Law, 11.10.16 Information Session -November 10, 2016 information session presented by KP Law.  A. Burney 
and M. Boggio will attend.   
200 Reservoir Road, Ch. 61B - Property owner requesting removal of recreational use (Ch apter 61B) for land located at 200 
Reservoir Road.  Board endorsed a five -lot ANR Plan on July 25, 2016.  There are no purchase offers at this time.  The property 
owner’s intent is to convert the land to residential zoning and offer the lots for sale.  If interested, the Town would have to hire an 
appraiser to determine the monetary value to use as a basis for the Town’s purchase.  The land is located adjacent to land 
owned by the Water District and  is also in front of the Sportsman’s Club.  K. Chenis inquired if any of the property is currently 
being used for recreation .  He is also  aware of nume rous trails in that area, but unsure if they are located on this specific 
property.  G. Bittner noted the Conservation Commission’s recommendation to the Select Board is not to pursue the purchase of 
this property.  Board consensus was to get the input of the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee before formulating its response to 
the Select Board. 
Complete Streets Program- VHB (Vanasse Hangen Brustlin Inc.) and the DPW Director were in front of the Select Board for a 
Complete Streets program discussion to see if the Town should consider adopting a Complete Streets Policy .  If the Town 
intends to pursue, the  Planning Board would need to review its Rules and Regulations for the Subdivision of Land to ensure the 
design elements are in agreement with the policy.  There w as discussion as to whether or not the policy would have to be 
adopted Town-wide or could it be individually by Zoning District . (It could be beneficial in the Village District.)   Board members 
noted the possibility of creating a “sidewalk fund”, i.e., in lieu of a developer constructing sidewalks in a residential development, 
that money could be placed into a sidewalk fund for the Town to utilize.  (No action is required by the Planning Board at this time.  
This was just for informational purposes.) 
9 Electric Avenue, Zoning Board of Appeals Hearing -  This property has been purchased by the owner of Asian Imperial  who 
is seeking a Special Permit for construction of additional parking ad jacent to the existing restaurant.  The owner also wish es to 
expand the front of the existing restaurant.  If the Special Permit is granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Applicant will 
then have to appear before the Planning Board.  The Board was in support of the petition.   
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 10.24.16 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
November 14-  
November 28-  Special Town meeting – no Board meeting 
December 12 
December 26-  Town Offices Closed – no Board meeting 
G. Bittner requested that the Board add one to two additional meetings approximately every other month due to no Board 
meetings on Monday holidays.  Motion, K. Chenis that the Board adopt a quasi-policy that in the event of Monday 
holidays or other Monday events that cause the Board to skip a meeting, instead of cancelling the meeting, defer a 
week and postpone to the next Mo nday that the Board can meet, S econd, G. Bittner.  Discussion ensued as to scheduling 
conflicts for various Board members.  K. Chenis made an Amended Motion to be before or after where practicable, Second, 
G. Bittner, all aye. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Citizen David Rodgers commented that he feels Town Boards/Commissions/Committees are looking over 
everyone’s shoulder and acting like “Big Brother”.   
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:      
G. Bittner- Brought up changing speed limits (noting specifically by the Town Beach) u nder the Municipal Modernization Bill.  A. 
Burney noted that this would require bill adoption by the Select Board.  He also suggested G. Bittner talk to the police chief to 
see if this is reasonable or would be more problematic. 
D. McQuaid- In response to D. Rodgers’ comment above, n oted that he is in support of reusing existing facilities and that the 
Board is here to help the people. 
D. McQuaid- Noted a presentation at his workplace on pervious paving systems that can  sometimes remove the need to have 
stormwater systems.  A. Burney inquired about removal of contaminants.  D. McQuaid responded that it is a layered system of 
crushed gravel, using the earth to filter. 
M. Allison- Noted CPTC presentation he attended on Writing Reasonable and Defensible Decisions. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:    9:05 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 925 Chase Road 
ANR Plan, 667 & 675 Reservoir Road 
Minutes 9.26.16 
Letter, 493 Massachusetts Avenue, Tanner Cole, Request for Waiver 
Letter dtd 10.07.16, Bowmar & Larkin, re: 200 Reservoir Road, Ch. 61B 
Complete Streets handout 
Zoning Board of Appeals Notice of Public Hearing, 9 Electric Avenue 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/10.24.16 