===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Information Meeting (cont’d) 
March 14, 2016 
Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Matthew Allison 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Information Meeting continuation with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel 
and Enterprise o n December 7, 2015.  The Information Meeting was to hear and discuss a proposed 45,000 S.F. office and 
maintenance facility to be located at 357 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. 
 
Applicant is Unitil -Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company, 6 Liberty Lane West, Hampton, NH , represented by the following 
individuals: 
Mark Piermarini and Jamie Rheault, Project Engineers, Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA) 
Mark Beliveau, Legal Counsel, Pierce Atwood LLP 
Jacqueline Agel, Unitil Project Manager 
Michael Dowhan, Veri Waterman Associates 
Ernie Nadeau, Nadeau Construction 
 
Attorney Beliveau distributed revised  plans which included  items raised at the February 22 nd meeting.  He drew the Board ’s 
attention to Sheet 6 which detailed the Petrol Barrier.  Reviewing Engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering , Inc. (GEI) issued 
a March 8, 2016 letter noted outstanding concerns had been met.  Sign age and landscape plans were presented.  Attorney 
Beliveau noted that at the March 2 nd Conservation Commission meeting,  the Commission requested the Stormwater 
Management Plan be looked at again for any possible enhancements to increase the TSS (Total Suspended Solids) removal.   
He went on to note that GEI had previously noted in its review that it was adequate and both stormwater regulations and Town 
regulation were b eing met.  At the March 2 nd Conservation meeting a Commission member asked for the installation of 
stormceptors and noted to Unitil they would like GEI to review the appropriateness of such installation and that the Planning 
Board consider requiring stormc eptors.  The Commission stated they would accept the Board’s decision.  Attorney Beliveau 
noted Unitil would need two of them at a total cost of approximately $70,000. He went on to note that Unitil has complied wit h all 
regulations in removing TSS.  A. Burney noted that he has spoken with J. Walsh and that  it is J. Walsh’s opinion Unitil has met 
the state’s standards.  The Board would have to determine if they wanted WBA to put together an a nalysis for GEI review.  
Attorney Beliveau stated that Unitil s hould not be held to a higher standard just because it is possible.  They have met DEP 
standards.   
 
Carl Luck ( not representing the Commission as a whole, but attending on behalf on the Conservation Commission), 50 Sunset 
Lane- The Commission was ready to mo ve forward until this issue came up.  T SS removal should be to the maxi mum extent 
possible.  There has been no technical analysis  of this idea.  C. Luck opined there was not enough information for the Board to 
make a decision this evening. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Unitil Information Meeting (cont’d) 
03.14.16 
Page 2 
 
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road - Agreed with C. Luck.  Any way to reduce sediment should be considered.  If 
stormceptors are too expensive, storm filters could be considered. 
 
Board discussion ensued.  Board m embers, excepting D. McQuaid, opined they would like to see some engineer input of 
possible improvement from the existing design.  D. McQuaid noted to the Board they agreed early in the process to hold Unitil  to 
redevelopment standards.  A. Burney noted to the Board that WBA would have to submit an analysis for GEI review.   
 
Attorney Beliveau reiterated the standard for a redevelopment site is to the maximum extent practicable.  To the maximum 
extent possible is not a standard.  If the Board voted to have the stormwater plan re -engineered, Untiil would withdraw their 
application and not resubmit to Lunenburg.  He was also concerned that if the new Section 8.4. Site Plan Approval is adopted at 
May 2016 Town Meeting, that would become applicable to an y future building permits; therefore, he requested a Finding in the 
Decision that Unitil meets the proposed regulations.   
 
Motion, K. Chenis, to not have the stormwater plan reengineered and to accept the engineering review, Second, D. Prokowiew; 
discussion- G. Bittner noted there needs to be better communication between boards/commissions.  All aye.  
 
Signage handout distributed to Board.  No Board concerns. 
 
Landscaping rendering distributed to Board.  Submittal meets both the Board’s landscape policy and stormwater goals.   
 
Motion, K. Chenis to approve the site development application for Unitil, Second, G. Bittner; Discussion - A. Burney noted to the 
Board they needed to modify the Motion to include various conditions.  Motion, K. Chenis to amend Motion to inclu de 
construction hours of 7:00 AM – 5:00 PM, Monday through Saturday, no Sundays and holidays ; Applicant to abide by all local 
and State regulations; to abide  by approvals and conditions of other Town Boards/Commissions; to build to the approved plan  
amended to March 8, 2016.  Second, G. Bittner.  All aye. 
 
It will be noted in the Findings that the Plan as submitted is in compliance with both the existing Section 8.4. and the proposed 
Section 8.4. 
 
Information meeting closed 8:20 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
 
Plan amended to 3/8/16 
Landscape plan 
Signage plan 
GEI Review Letter dtd March 8, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2016/Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue_03.14.16 