===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAA
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clerk
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
DIe®
INCORPORAT
Minutes
Public Hearing (cont'd)
June 13, 2016
234 Summer Street
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hail, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:35 PM
Present: Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Kenneth Chenis
The Public Hearing, continued from May 23, 2016, was to hear and discuss a site plan approval under Section 8.4. of the
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg to replace the existing retail facility with a single family home at 234 Summer
Street, Map 117, Parcel 0031.
Project engineer Gary Shepard, David E. Ross Associates (DER), represented the applicant Stanley Miller, 233 Summer Street.
A revised plan was submitted with the proposed vinyl privacy fence detail. Beginning at the property line, the first sixteen (16')
feet of fence will be at a height of three (3') feet and then the height will switch to eight (8) feet for the remainder of the
property line. Fence will be located on the property line.
Dino Piermarini, 236 Summer Street- Inquired if a survey would be required for fence placement. A. Burney noted that the
Board cannot require a survey. It is up to the Applicant if they choose to do so for their own benefit. A temporary chain link
fence will be put in place during construction to avoid any trespassing onto adjacent properties.
The Board noted the Conditions of the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) Special Permit; that the new home maintain the existing
footprint and provide a solid construction fence on the west side of the property. M. Allison had issues with the ZBA Special
Permit; G. Shepard responded that he and the Applicant met with both the Building/Zoning Official and the Land Use Director
as to the best process to follow.
Question arose as to the Planning Board issuing a Decision while the ZBA Special Permit is still in the appeal period. A. Burney
responded that if the ZBA Decision is appealed the Planning Board's Site Plan Approval would be on hold until the final court
decision. The Applicant would not be able to build until they have the ZBA Special Permit.
Board members noted they would like to see more clarity on ZBA Decisions.
Conditions will be for a temporary chain link fence during construction, that the Applicant build to the approved Plan, that the
Applicant abide by all Boards'/Commissions' Decisions.
Motion, D. McQuaid, to grant the Site Plan Approval with Conditions as noted, Second, G. Bittner, all aye.
Hearing closed 7:00 PM
Documents used at hearing:
Revised Site Plan, 234 Summer Street
Zoning Board of Appeals' Certificate of Granting a Special Permit
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 28 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
