===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
September 12, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  G. Bittner noted monies for the Boys’ and Girls’ Club through the Stillman Fair and also thanked residents 
for attending the August 22, 2016 Special Town Meeting. 
 
ANR PLANS: 205 Whalom Road, Whalom Road LLC -  The Applicant was represented by Attorney Thomas Gustafson.  As a 
result of a 40B project, the ANR Plan is to convey two parcels to the Town , one to the Water District and one to the Town and 
also a conservation easement.  There are some drafting issues (missing l ot lines identified by the Assessors’ Office) that need to 
be corrected on the Plan.  Applicant will redraft Mylar to correctly show parcels.  As this is part of a comprehensive permit project 
the Applicant requested fee be waived.  D. McQuaid made Motion to waive the fee, Second D. Prokowiew, all aye.   Plan will 
be redrafted and dropped off with the Planning Office for Board signature.   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
8 Massachusetts Avenue - see separate minutes .  D. McQuaid made Motion to approve the Site Plan Approval with the 
Condition that the parking lot striping be completed  as approved in the previous application , Second, D. Prokowiew, all 
aye. 
 
155 Reservoir Road, Lot 2 - see separate minutes .  D. McQuaid made Motion to approve the stormwater management 
special permit as submitted with Conditions that the Applicant build to the Plan and abide by all local, state and federal 
permitting, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye. 
 
274 Prospect Street- see separate minutes.  Hearing continued to October 24, 2016. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  All minutes signed 
8/8/16- Motion D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew 
8/22/16- Motion D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 09.12.16 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force -  Task Force discussed  whether or not to become involved in upcomin g MS4 litigation  by various 
communities.  MRPC is developing an application to help facilitate data collection.  
Town Manager Search Committee-  Committee conducting interviews September 27 th and 29th and hopes to recommend three 
names to the Board of Selectmen by October  3rd.  
Agricultural Commission-  Right to Farm signs are up.  Hours of the Farmers’ Market extended from 10 -2.  The Commission is 
hopeful that the Market will continue through the end of October.   
Building Reuse Committee -  $10,000 was al located for an appraisal of Town properties.  The one bid that came in under 
$10,000 was no longer available  due to personnel changes on the part of the bidder .  The Committee is going before the Board 
of Selectmen to discuss how to move forward.   The Committee will recommend putting the Ritter Memorial Building and the old 
Primary School out for RFP. 
Capital Planning Committee- no report   
School Building Committee-  A dedication ceremony will be held in conjunction with Homecoming.  
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)- Have accepted bids for two projects. 
MJTC- no report  
MRPC- Meetings going quarterly in January for the general body and monthly for executive.  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
Board Goals- Board members brought fort h various Goals they would like to see the Board accomplish.  Some of them are as 
follows (in no particular order): 
Re-writing of the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District Bylaw 
Creating a Lake Zoning District 
Working on an Agricultural Commission Bylaw revision 
Re-working the Solar Energy System Bylaw 
Develop a communication plan to spotlight the Village Center District 
Increasing communication between Boards/Commissions 
Review the Master Plan and Housing Development 
Get a Definition and Use Table in place 
 
New Whalom Overlay-  Board consensus is to put on hold and work on Definitions and Use Table.   A. Burney will send A -C 
Definitions to the Board. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: none 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
September 26 
October 10 – no meeting, Columbus Day 
October 24 – 274 Prospect Street (continuation) 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:   
G. Bittner noted a news article that stated a new law has been enacted to allow municipalities to lower speed  in densely populate 
areas in commercial zones to 25 MPH without speed study.  (He was thinking in terms of the Town beach.)  Will supply 
information to A. Burney. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   10:10 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 8/8/16 and 8/22/16 
ANR Plan, 250 Whalom Road 
Board Goals – DRAFT 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/09.12.16 