===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
155 Reservoir Road 
September 12, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:50 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Clerk opened the Hearing with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on August 25 and 
September 1, 2016.  The Hearing is to hear and discuss a stormwater mana gement special permit under Section 6.7. of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for development of nine single family home lots and associated site work at 155 
Reservoir Road, Lot 2, Map 102, Parcel 0002.   
 
Brian Marchetti, PE, McCarty Engineering Inc., represented the Applicant Ron Koivu, Harbor Classic Homes, LLC.  The Planning 
Board endorsed an ANR Plan in November 2015 for the creation of nine lots.  The Applicant has r eceived Board of Health 
approval for all nine septic systems  and Orders of Conditions for all nine lots.  The Applicant is buying those lots on a lot by lot 
basis; once he sells a lot, he will purchase another one, continuing in the same manner.  The entire parcel consists of 41 ± acres 
with 18 acres being developed.  The rear 22 acres are remaining undisturbed.  An NOI (Notice of Intent) has been filed with the 
EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) for the construction general permit .  Grading is being minimized as much as possible  
due to proximity to wetlands.   
 
M. Allison inquired as to an enforcement order being in place when the Applicant first broke ground.  B. Marchetti noted as the 
lots are being developed individually, the Applicant was not aware a stormwater permit was required.  The Conservation 
Administrator informed t he Applicant that he could not sign off on any building permits until a stormwater permit was in place.  
There will be a separate construction entrance for each lot.   
 
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road - Her property abuts the southwest corner of the site  and she is concerned with the street 
being kept clear of debris during construction.  She went on to note that she was already getting street runoff prior to this  
development and after the tree cutting took place, with the vehicles entering and exiting the site, rain puddles were forming and 
draining towards her house.  M. Allison noted the construction entrances should minimize the debris and street cleaning can b e 
required.  He recommended a swale to B. Marchetti who responded they will review on a lot by lot basis.  B. Marchetti noted he 
had walked the site with R. Lisio and discussed a possible remedy of a catch basin and culvert under her drive going to the rear 
of the lot.  Th is would come under the jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission.  He considers this a worst case basis.  A. 
Burney noted that the purpose of a stormwater permit is to keep the sediment ation runoff on site.  The Building Official has a 
sign-off sheet which requires individual department sign -offs prior to issuance of a building p ermit.  At time of sign -off, staff can 
ensure that a construction entrance is in place. 
 
D. McQuaid made Motion to close the Hearing, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.  
 
Hearing closed 7:15 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Special permit Application      Minutes/public hearings 2016/155 Reservoir road_09.12.16 