===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
July 25, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam 
R. Burney 
 
ANR PLANS:  
238 Fire Road 16 , J&A Realty Trust -  K. Chenis recused himself.  Attorney Knox, representing the 
property owner, presented the plan.  At its March 14, 2016 Board meeting, the Board determined a 
prescriptive easement had been established for the property.  By endorsing this ANR Plan, the Board has 
determined vital access.  Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew, to endorse the ANR Plan, all 
aye.  Plan endorsed. 
331 Burrage Street, Daniel Proctor -  S. Dillis , Ducharme & Dillis, r epresenting the property owner, 
presented the plan.  Parcel being created to add to Lot 11 on Whitetail Crossing.  Lot 11 was originally 
created with the Whitetail Crossing development, but due to a zoning change it is now nonconforming.  
This ANR Plan wil l make Lot 11 meet zoning requirements.  As  the applicant also  owns the adjacent 
property, the lot cannot be a grandfathered lot.  Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew, to 
endorse the ANR Plan, all aye.  Plan endorsed. 
200 Reservoir Road, Estate of Ver a Barney - Neil Gorman, David Ross Associates, representing the 
property owner, presented the plan  dividing the property into five lots .  Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, 
D. Prokowiew, to endorse the ANR Plan, all aye.  Plan endorsed. 
1026 & 1042 Northfield Road , Ronald Smith, Lucy Hawkins, Steven Anderson - Presented by property 
owner Ron Smith.  Plan creates a five -lot subdivision.  Motion, K. Chenis, Second, D. Prokowiew, to 
endorse the ANR Plan, all aye.  Plan endorsed. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS:  
1026 Northfield Road-see separate minutes 
Zoning Warrant Articles, 8/22/16 STM- see separate minutes.  (The Board took one blanket vote for all 
Whalom articles .)  Motion, D. McQuaid, that the Board support the warrant article s regarding the 
Whalom Overlay District, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   All minutes signed.   Motion, D. McQuaid, to sign minutes of June 27, 2016, 
Second, G. Bittner, all aye.  (K. Chenis abstained.) 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 07.25.16 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission- Farmers’ Market continues. 
Building Reuse Committee -  Committee has received responses to advertisement for property 
evaluations. 
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
School Building Committee- School has occupancy permit. 
Green Community Task Force (GCTF) - Sent out items for bid; did not receive acceptable bids.  Re -sent 
for new bids. 
MJTC- K. Chenis unable to attend last meeting.  Inquired as to Town’s secondary representative to MJTC. 
MRPC- no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Minor field changes to storage units at 270 Elect ric Avenue; instead of a keypad gate they are going to 
install a steel swing gate on West Street with a Knox Box.  The owner anticipates the first building 
receiving occupancy this fall. 
A. Burney anticipates that the developer for 50 Elmwood Road will approach the Board for a bond 
reduction within the next few months as the majority of the road work is completed. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
Town Manager Search Committee, Board Representative-  M. Allison, D. McQuaid and G. Bittner noted 
their desire to serve on the Search Committee.  Motion, K. Chenis, for M. Allison to be the Board’s 
representative to the Committee, Second, G. Bittner .  Motion, D. Prokowiew, for D. McQuaid, to be 
the Board’s representative, Second, D. McQuaid.  Roll Call vote for M. Allison - D. Prokowiew, aye; K. 
Chenis, aye; G. Bittner, aye; D. McQuaid, nay; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -1.  Meetings currently 
scheduled for September 1st and 15th. 
Board Goals- Board members will provide their five short -term and five long-term goals to A. Burney by 
August 22nd for discussion at the Board’s September 12th meeting.  There will be discussion of setting up 
subcommittees of two for research, which will then be presented to the full Board.  A. Burney suggested 
one of the priorities be the updating of the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land.  D. 
McQuaid reminded the Board of the importance of a new Lake Whalom Overlay District Bylaw.  G. 
Bittner suggested he and A. Burney  keep track of subjects that are brought forth at Board meetings to 
ensure they are addressed at the appropriate time at a future meeting.  A. Burney will do a short item to 
the Lunenburg Ledger to notify the public that the Board will b e working on a new Whalom Overlay 
District. 
Building Official -  The Board would like to meet with the Building/Zoning Official to better understand 
various topics, e.g., operational issues, understanding each others ’ perspectives , and  how they can 
better work together.  K. Chenis suggested members meet with the Building/Zoning Official individually 
and then collectively as a Board.  A. Burney to check with the Building/Zoning Official to see if he is 
available to meet individually and then come to the August 8th Board meeting.   
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 07.25.16 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
August 8- 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building – will invite Building/Zoning Official to attend. 
August 22- 6:30 PM, Lunenburg High School, - abbreviated agenda to accept Highfield Village withdrawal 
and any zoning warrant article discussion 
7:00 PM, Special Town Meeting 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:   
G. Bittner noted abutters to the Pleasant Street solar site opined that the applicant is not fulfilling 
his/her landscaping requirements.  A. Burn ey noted this would be an enforcement issue through the 
Building/Zoning Official.   
It was noted that 8 Massachusetts Avenue received a Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) Special Permit for 
an auto detailing shop.  The applicant is also required to come before the Planning Board for Site Plan 
Approval.  Motion, D. P rokowiew, to send a letter to the ZBA noting that the applicant is operating 
without Planning Board approval, Second, G. Bittner, all aye. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   9:25 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 06/27/16 
ANR Plan, 238 Fire Road 16 
ANR Plan, 331 Burrage Street 
ANR Plan, 200 Reservoir Road 
ANR Plan, 1026 & 1042 Northfield Road 
DRAFT 2014 Board Goals 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/07.25.16 