===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
March 28, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
ANR PLANS:   90 West Townsend Road - Plan presented by property owner Edmond McSweeney.  Plan sent out for 
departmental review prior to Board meeting ; no issues.  Plan is for three lots.  “Revised Lot 1” previously approved by Board on 
9/14/15.  Lots 1 and 2 will share a driveway and Lots 3 and 4 will share a driveway.  Plan endorsed by Board. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
274 Prospect Street (cont’d)- See separate minutes 
Highfield Village (cont’d) - A request was received from the Applicant for an extensio n.  The Applicant intends to apply to the 
Zoning Board of Appeals for a special permit dimensional variation  regarding the issue of area, slope and wetlands.  Board 
discussed ensued.  G. Bittner brought up a concern of “re -noticing” versus “re-filing”; stating that re-noticing would not reset the 
clock for either himself or D. Prokowiew as new Board members.  It was previously suggested to the Applicant that it would be  
appropriate to withdraw without prejudi ce and refile, but the Applicant’s attorney felt it was within the Applicant’s rights to re -
notice to reset the clock.  A. Burney felt that re -noticing would not have reset the clock.  There was Board discussion as to the 
extent, or lack thereof, of changes with the new plans.  The conceptual layout remains the same, but the detail is different.  Some 
Board members voiced concern that if the Applicant is granted a special permit by the Zoning Board of Appeals, it will take away 
their authority for the design of open space under the Protective Bylaw of the  Town of Lunenburg , Section 5.6.5.  A. Burney will 
supply the Zoning Board of Appeals with the project’s history prior to its hearing.  The Board will also have the opportunity to 
view the submittal to the Zoning Board  and supply comments .  D. McQuaid aske d the Board for a Motion to continue the 
Hearing with the Planning Board to May 23, 2016, 6:35 PM, to allow the Applicant to file with the Zoning Board of 
Appeals.  Motion, K. Chenis, Second, D. Prokowiew.  Roll call vote - G. Bittner, aye; D. Prokowiew, ay e; K. Chenis, aye; 
M. Allison, abstain, D. McQuaid, aye. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   All minutes signed. 
3/14/16- Motion, K. Chenis, Second D, Prokowiew 
Unitil 3/14/16- K. Chenis, Second, D. Prokowiew 
Zoning Articles 3/4/16- Motion, K. Chenis, second, D. Prokowiew 
WalMart 3/14/16- Motion, K. Chenis, Second, D. Prokowiew 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 03.28.16 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Building Reuse Committee-  no meeting 
Capital Planning Committee-  no meeting 
Agricultural Commission- Board of Selectmen approved Right to Farm sign l ocations.  Commission submitted a Zoning Bylaw 
revision for May Town Meeting.   
Storm Water Task Force - Citizen-at-large position vacant.  Task Force has been invited to join the Central Mass Stormwater 
Coalition. 
MJTC- Towns can request safety studies und er UPWP (Unified Planning Work Program) .  TIP  (Transportation Improvement 
Plan) budget will be reviewed April 14, 2016 for project selection.  FY17 open-funded balance is 1.7 million under budget.  The 
resurfacing of Rt. 13 in Lunenburg at 1.6 million is a candidate for that funding.   
MRPC- no meeting 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no meeting 
School Building Committee- School 83% complete.  Working towards a Certificate of Occupancy in May. 
Green Community Task Force (GCTF) - Lunenburg is in its second year o f Green Community designation.  Three years remain 
for the Town to meet the required 20% reduction in municipal energy.  This applies to buildings that were occupied and in use at 
time of designation. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road-  work continues 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Unitil, 357 Electric Avenue: Decision and Plan- Decision and Plan signed by Board.   
Wal-Mart, 301 Massachusetts Avenue: Decision- Signed by the Board.   
Town Meeting, May 7, 2016- noted 
36 Summer Street: Peer Review Discussion -  The office has received a site plan review application and the applicant is 
inquiring as to the necessity of peer engineer review.  Applicant intends to create a mixed-use with the construction of a two story 
addition to an existin g commercial building in the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District.  There will be some paving and 
grinding on site.  Application has been distributed for Town departmental review.  Board members have various concerns, i.e., 
site is located within the FEMA Flood Plain, Board not comfortable with reviewing stormwater, increase in paved surface.  Board 
consensus was for a peer engineering review.   
Site Plan Approval/Special Permit/Rules and Regulations:  Board reviewed first draft.  Edits will be mad e.  A. Burney will 
research the logistics of abutter notification to include, in addition to the property owner, notification of renter/tenant, etc. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
April 11 
 Information Meeting- 36 Summer Street 
 Public Hearing- 203 West Townsend Road 
 Public Hearing- Zoning Article – Ag Com 
 Traffic Counts 
April 25 
 Information Meeting- 301 Massachusetts Ave, Hannaford 
  
ADJOURNMENT:   9:40 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 03/14/16 
Minutes 03/14/16 Unitil 
Minutes 03/14/16 Zoning Articles 
Minutes 03/14/16 WalMart 
ANR Plan, 90 West Townsend Rdt 
Unitil, 357 Electric Avenue Decision & Site Plan 
WalMart, 301 Massachusetts Avenue, Decision 
DRAFT Rules and Regulations 
 
Minutes/2016/03.28.16 