===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing (cont'd)
40 Pioneer Drive & 98 Leominster Shirley Road
August 14, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Absent: Adam R. Burney
The Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4.and Special Permit under Section
4.7. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of an addition for office and warehouse space at 40
Pioneer Drive (Map 146, Parcel 22) and 98 Leominster Shirley Road (Map 146, Parcel 24).
The Applicant, Ecological Fibers, Inc. (Steven Quill- owner) was represented by Wesley Flis, Whitman & Bingham Associates
Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, Section 4.2 d. states "...all material must be submitted to
the Lunenburg Planning Office no later than 4:00 PM on the Tuesday prior to a scheduled meeting to be considered at said
meeting." G. Bittner noted to the Board that new materials were submitted after the deadline and the Board needed to take a
vote on whether or not to consider the new material at this Hearing. The Board could hear the presentation tonight, but take no
action and continue the Hearing to the next meeting. W. Flis stated he could give the Board an overview of what changed on the
Plan. Discussion ensued. Both D. Prokowiew and K. Chenis were fine with hearing him out. M. Jeffreys said he had not had
enough time to review the new materials. M. Allison noted that as the Land Use Director was not in attendance he felt it would
benefit the Board to continue the Hearing. Motion, D. Prokowiew, as the Applicant did not meet the deadline, that the
Board allow the Applicant to present to hear presentation, but take no action tonight regarding a vote, Second, M.
Jeffreys. Discussion- W. Flis asked that the Board hold off on the second part of the Motion until after hearing his presentation.
He respectfully asked the Board to revise its Motion. K. Chenis noted that the Board had not yet received a review letter from the
Reviewing Enginer. Roll call vate-M. Jeffreys, aye; D. Prokowiew, aye; K. Chenis, estain, M. Alison, aye; G. Bitter,
M. Jeffreys brought up the issue of the Bylaw limiting two curb cuts per lot. He noted some businesses in Town with up to eight
(8) curb cuts. He opined that the Bylaw language should be modified to give exceptions to industrial properties.
W. Flis noted a memo from his water engineer stating "the water flow rate and pressure is adequate to support the sprinkler
system for the proposed addition". He noted a letter issued to the Board requesting a waiver from the Vertical Datum. He went
over the proposed revisions to the Plan. The middle entrance has been eliminated. This has provided for a gain of four (4)
parking spaces, bringing the total number of spaces to ninety-nine (99). The main driveway which accesses both the loading
docks and the parking area was originally thirty-five (35) feet wide; it has been reduced to thirty (30) feet, but still meets zoning.
Low profile crab apple trees are proposed so the front of the building is visible. Current landscaping shown in the parking lot
===PAGE 2===
the building during the winter months. Once the Zoning Board of Appeals gives approval for the third driveway, the Applicant will
return to the Planning Board for a modification. Currently, only one multi-directional sign has been added for the loading docks
and office visitors. The current free standing sign may be updated to reflect the company's new logo, but size will remain the
same. The Applicant is in compliance with 6.4.3.d)1. for screening.
Motion, K. Chenis, to approve waiver for vertical datum, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
The outstanding item is the re-review letter from J. Walsh, Graves Engineering Inc. for the revised plan.
W. Flis requested a continuance to the August 28th Board meeting, 6:35 PM. Motion, D. Prokowiew, to continue the Hearing
to August 28h per the Applicant's request, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.
Hearing recessed 8:11 PM
Documents used at Hearing:
Site Plan Approval Application
public hearings 2017/40 Pioneer Drive_98 Leominster Shirley Road 08.14.17
