===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr.
RECEIVED & FILED
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
MAST
NOV 1: 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusells Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
P18
NOR ONE
Minutes
October 16, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis (left 8:55 PM), Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: David Prokowiew
PUBLIC HEARING PROCESS:
A. Burney put together a handout on the public hearing process. Some of the hearings can be very lengthy and the handout
recommended a time limit for speaking, both for Board members and the audience. He mentioned how individuals can become
perturbed with one another as the evening progresses, especially if the same material is being reiterated. K. Chenis wanted
individual Board member synopsizes and then move on. Those member synopsizes would be a feeder to a Board conversation.
Board members wanted the dialogue session to be free flowing instead of having a time restriction. M. Allison felt that the
current process works well and that instituting time limits is ridiculous.
A. Burney noted there are ways to be firm and respectful without being offensive to the applicants. He went on to note that there
are only a few engineering firms the Board sees frequently. Communities get reputations and when people are looking for sites
a community may get passed over because the applicant doesn't want to deal with a community's regulatory process. He went
on to state that putting together a list of what needs to get addressed is helpful for an applicant. K. Chenis noted that if more
concrete guidance is given to an applicant, there would be less back and forth and the hearing would be more efficient; e.g., the
Board states there is not enough screening for a project, the applicant returns to the next meeting with a plan showing increased
screening, the Board states there is still not enough screening, the applicant again revises the plan and returns to another
meeting, etc. etc. Board members had varying opinions ranging from the Board having taken a stronger stance than in the past
to a tone of cross-examination of an applicant.
M. Jeffreys suggested A. Burney prepares summary memorandums (sample provided) to the Board on every substantial
conversation he has with individuals that come in to the office. It was also his opinion that the Board is unaware of A. Burney's
day to day interactions with individuals that meet with him in the office. K. Chenis noted that if a project is coming before the
Board, a brief summary of any interaction A. Burney had with the project proponents prior to a Board appearance could be
beneficial.
M. Allison felt that prior to accepting an application and scheduling a public hearing, all departmental reviews should be received.
A. Burney noted that the Board cannot get responses to an application that not been submitted. He is not aware of any
community that requires input and review of a project submission prior to acceptance of that application by another department.
There was Board discussion on reviewing the submitted documents at the beginning of a hearing to ensure they provided
adequate information.
One suggestion was for A. Burney, at the end of the hearing, based on Board member comments, compile a list for both the
Board and the applicant as to outstanding concerns.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes
October 16, 2017
Page 2
G. Bittner noted the Board can be assertive and clear without stifling development in Town.
M. Jeffreys asked A. Burney for his opinion of the previously suggested memorandum. A. Burney responded he feels it is
reasonable for on-going projects.
Rors Beret, Nortied Roac: retenced the ongoing solar point and noied the Board ans ras ho proces is open and
DEFINITIONS AND USE TABLE: Review commenced with Page 8, #1, Draft #3 - September 2017. There was lengthy
discussion on #2 buffer strips. Edits will be made to the current draft.
Adjourned 9:15 PM
Documents used at meeting:
Public Hearing Procedure
Draft Definitions and Use Table
Sample Memorandum
Minutes/2017/10.16.17
