===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAA
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice-Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clk.
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
THENBURO MAST
118
AICORPORATED
Tel: (978) 582-4147
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing
691 Chase Road
January 9, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Time: 6:30 PM
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present: Matthew Allison, Chair, Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R.
Burney
The hearing opened at 6:37 PM with the reading of the legal notice published in the Sentinel & Enterprise December 26, 2016
and January 2, 2017. The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4. of the
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction and operation of two street hockey rinks at 691 Chase Road (Map
021, Parcel 0003).
Applicant, Richard Breau made his presentation. His desire is to install two street hockey rinks in two phases. The first
immediately with a three-sided building approved by the Board of Health and a parking lot. In the fall he would install lights and
then install the second rink either next spring or summer. He is asking for the following waivers:
Drainage Calculations
Impact Reports
Traffic
Stormwater
Fiscal
Environmental
Community
Plan Stamped by PE
40 Scale Plan
Zoning Table
Parking Plan
Proposed Facilities
Tree Information
Traffic Information
Limit of Work
Photometric Plan
Locus Plan - Existing Plan - Erosion Plan
===PAGE 2===
Minutes
691 Chase Road
01.09.17
Page 2
Many of the above waivers are being requested for financial reasons as he and his wife are financing this project personally. By
doing so, he can keep fees down. He plans on doing clinics with children, getting involved with the ice hockey team, and holding
leagues. Leagues will range from children age four (4) to age sixteen years plus (16+). He would also do adult, co-ed, and
women's leagues.
G. Bittner noted the design submitted to the Planning Board is slightly different than that presented to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. R. Breau responded it was redesigned so there is nothing in the wetlands or buffer zone. The boards are four (4) feet
high, with a twelve (12') foot fence around the back. The three (3) handicap parking spaces (near the three-sided building) will
be paved and painted. A. Burney noted there will have to be accessible pathways through the site. R. Breau will do 3-4 foot wide
pathways. D. Prokowiew inquired if everything will flow towards Chase Road. The rinks are slightly pitched toward both sides.
Rinks are processed gravel, then 3-4 inch tar asphalt base, then a plastic deck mat. Thirty-six (36) parking spaces are proposed.
D. Prokowiew inquired if the parking could be expanded. R. Breau noted that teams consist of ten (10) children so there would
be fifteen-twenty (15-20) vehicles per rink. He went on to say that many parents drop their children off and then come back later
to pick them up.
Games would start at approximately 6:00 PM during the week. Weekends would be approximately 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM. The
Zoning Board of Appeals approved the Modification of a Special Permit for operating hours of Monday - Friday, 3:00 PM - 10:00
PM and Saturday and Sunday, 7:30 AM - 9:00 PM. Light shutoff time would be by 10:15 PM after the 9:00-10:00 PM game. (G.
Bittner thought that the Zoning Board of Appeals hours of operation for Saturday and Sunday were 7:30 AM - 8:00 PM.) D.
Prokowiew was concerned with lighting being a nuisance to residents across the street on Windermere Drive. R. Breau
responded that once he is ready to install lights a representative from the light company will come out to the site to advise him.
The lights will be directed towards the rinks with shielding. He has been quoted 400 watt lights at 20-22 candlelight. The light
company will test the lights at the Leominster rink, and if that is determined to be sufficient, R. Breau will purchase the same
wattage. As the Leominster rink is older and darker, he may decide to go up to 1,000 watt lights. A. Burney noted the proposed
light located on the southwest side of the first rink lines up with Windermere Drive. That will need to be taken into account when
the lights are designed so there will be no interference with the intersection with Chase Road.K. Chenis asked if any trees on
the road side were being taken down. No.
A. Burney noted that if the Board was concerned that the rink excavation would have the potential to cause silt flow, it could
condition a hay bale line along the edge of excavation to ensure there is no siltation.
D. Prokowiew referred to the Fire Chief's email which notes that ambulance access is tight. R. Breau will put in a spot for
turnaround near the handicap parking and will probably eliminate three (3) spots near the first rink. The parking plan indicates 36
spaces. K. Chenis suggested the parking be redesigned with spaces located in the center, face to face, with the road circling the
parking lot. This would provide ambulance access and eliminate the necessity for 3-point turns for drop offs. D. Prokowiew
inquired as to how the boundary of the parking lot will be marked. R. Breau responded that he would probably have pillars in the
middie and roped off.
K. Chenis asked what will prevent gravel silt from running into Chase Road during a rainstorm. R. Breau responded that there
will be a 30 ft. paved entrance (note: the plan indicates 40 ft.) with a crushed stone swale on the side to act as a French drain.
The plan does not show any lights in the parking area. R. Breau noted there would probably be one spotlight on top of the three-
sided building. Board responded that will be pretty far away from the parking lot. R. Breau responded that he tentatively plans
on closing by 7 PM in the spring and everyone should be off the property before it gets dark.
The Board would like to see this application altered to be a single phase one-rink project with a modified parking lot and that R.
Breau return to the Board for a modification at the time of construction of the second rink and also any other design element
changes. The current requested waivers remain.
M. Allison asked about the dispersion of rainwater on the rinks. The rinks pitch two (2") inches side to side; water will flow into
the grass and processed gravel. M. Allison suggested R. Breau ask Whitman & Bingham about gravel recharge along the sides.
Board requested a landscape plan.
===PAGE 3===
Minutes
691 Chase Road
01.09.17
Page 3
G. Bittner inquired if R. Breau will want to erect a sign at the site entrance. A. Burney recommended R. Breau include that as
part of this Site Plan Approval.
A. Burney noted that when the parking lot is redesigned R. Breau needs to comply with the Protective Bylaw, Section 6.4.3.e)9.a.
which states "On at least three sides of the perimeter of an outdoor parking lot containing 20 or more parking spaces, there must
be at least one tree for every eight parking spaces abutting the perimeter; such trees must be spaced to that some part of a
parking space is not more than 30 feet from the center line of a tree".
It was noted that the Police Chief did a speed study and count and noted there was already a lot of traffic on Chase Road -
4,600+ cars in 24 hours on the southbound side only.
There was no public comment.
The hearing was summarized for the benefit of the Board and the applicant, providing specific comments for the applicant's
action. Issues to address include adequate parking, parking lot traffic flow, showing paved areas (both ADA and walkways),
putting anascaping on paper including trees for parking area, and putting the sign on paper. Parking lot lights will be included in
Phase 2. R. Breau noted that he would probably put up the parking lot lights when he puts up the rink lights. For purposes of
this iteration of the site plan, if approved by the Board it would be for the parking lot, rink, porta potty and pro shop, minus
lighting. An entrance gate for security purposes will be annotated on the revised plan. He will contact the Fire Department
regarding the type of lock so they will have access.
The lighting and photometric plan would be part of the modification for the second rink.
Per the Agent to the Board of Health "the existing well shown under the parking lot shall be discontinued - a permit from the
Board of Health is required".
In order to address concerns, R. Breau requested a continuance to the February 13, 2017 Board meeting. Motion, K. Chenis,
Second, G. Bittner to continue Hearing to 6:35 PM, February 13, 2017. All aye.
Hearing recessed 7:32 PM.
Documents used at Hearing:
Application for Site Plan Approval
Minutes/public hearings 2017/691 Chase Road 01.09.17
