===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 2 0 2017
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Office of the Planning Board
Gregory Bittner, Chair
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk
David Prokowiew, Mbi.
Michacl-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr
MASS *
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext S
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
CORPORAT
Adam R. Burney
Land Usc Director
Minutes
Economic Development Workshop
September 12, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 7:00 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Kenneth Chenis
Also Present: Select Board members Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, Paula Bertram, Phyllis Luck, Damon McQuaid, and Town
Manager Healher Lemieux
PUBLIC COMMENT:
D. McQuaid noted he has been misquoted on social media regarding the Village Center. P. Bertram recommended the Select
Board put out a statement as to its pursuing TC Passios for the Town offices and encouragement of public involvement regarding
municipal building use. M. Jeffreys (speaking as a citizen) opined that the citizens have been working together as a team to
advance the Town, He went on to note that he finds the conversation on Facebook to be distasteful and it discourages citizens
from becoming involved in lown politics. D. Prokowiew opined that there is a communication gap between Town government
and the citizens. He suggested information be posted to the Town web and periodically updated. H. Lemieux noted that grant
money has been received lo update the Town website, making it more user-friendly.
Heather Bowen, 188 Flat Hill Road - the Boards need to be aware of what is being discussed on Facebook. She noted that she:
is the current Farmers' Market Manager-in-Training and needs to stay aware of social media as to not miss out on markeling
opportunitles for the Market. She also feels that the bylaws are too vague and policies too restrictive, limiting her abilily lo open
a poneniel ki hen in her residence.
Marie Martin, 54 Longwood Drive - expressed her appreciation to the Boards for their work and commitment. Concerned with
the chance of a 40R development in the Town Center. A. Burney responded that the Town Center is currently not zoned for a
40R.
Katey Adams, Williams Drive - feels economic development should be encouraged towards both municipal and private
properties within the Town Center, but open space also needs to be maintained.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street - asked for clarification on the Village Center District Bylaw; is it to afford residents the
opportunity to open small businesses and create a more vibrant Town Center?
POWERPOINT PRESENTATION:
A. Burney noted the Economic Development Workshop presentalion, which is informational and conceptual to open up
iscussion. Overview is- 1) existing documents, 2) items in process, 3) community desires, 4) available resources, 5) communit
needs, and 6) next steps. Slide 8, "Community Desires",
will be renamed "Community Comments" for clarificalion in the even
the presentation is posted to the Town web. A. Burney noted that the vacant commercial/industrial land (all privately owned)
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 09.12.17
Page 2
noted on Slide 9, encompasses 78.2 acres, of which 19 acres are two parcels that are more than 80% wetlands. He went on to
note that there are five parcels under earth removal
permits owned within the Industrial District by two landowners which
comprise 85.6 acres.
D. Rodgers - what economic development could be oblained in Lunenburg that would not be available in both Leominster and
Fitchburg? P. Bertram noted this will be a discussion item. She went on to note that she felt two major items drawing individuals
to Lunenburg are eco-tourism, e.g., trail system and land, and being a farming community. Lunenburg also has a strong arlist
and craft community.
R. Ebersole stated Lunenburg has gone back and forth wanting development and wanting to restrict it. The Town did not have
zoning until 1960 and worked against the extension of Interstate 190 through Leominster Into Lunenburg and New Hampshire.
Going back to the 1800's there were people working against the railroad coming through Lunenburg successfully and it only
comes through the lower part of Town. Route 2A used to be Route 2 and then it was moved south to its current location. He
went on to state that going back to the 2000's when Lunenburg was going to install sewer through the entire Town, Ihe Town
said it didn't want sewer in the entire Town for environmental reasons and this instigated a sewer use needs study. He noted the
Town Charter states the Sewer Commissioners shall in conjunclion with other land use bodies, assist in developing a long range
strategic plan for guiding town growth and development. There also needs to be discussion about the high electric cost that
Unitil is charging residents; that makes the difference why someone would move to Lunenburg versus moving to Leominster,
which doesn't have Unitil. He stated he personally supports local businesses based on cost, service, quality and available
services. The lower right hand corner of Town where PJ Keating is localed used to be strictly Commercial Zoning. Now it is
Office Park and Industrial with the idea that the Town didn't want traditional commercial zoning. How far do we want to have
commercial to go? He liked that the Planning Board is reviewing the bylaws to make everything consistent. The Zoning Map will
be the hot button when it goes to fown meeting. It takes a 2/3 majority vote to change zoning bylaws. Both zoning and non-
zoning parts need to be addressed.
D. McQuaid added that everything the Planning Board is doing with the Use Table and the Definitions is a great step forward.
He was afraid of trying to redraw the map; there will be tremendous pushback from the public when you try to take a residential
area and make it commercial. Everything that is done as far as making decisions regarding economic development is asking
what does that economic development add to the community. Does it enhance the public realm or promote walkability? It needs
to focus on contextually appropriate uses with appropriate scale and design. A way to do that without redrawing the Zoning Map
is to allow some things by special permit in residential areas to get back to the organic neighborhood growth through mixed use
that the pause button has been pressed since the 50's post-war exclusionary zoning. Uses can be identified that are acceptable
and appropriate to go in residential areas; e.g., bakers, markets, craftspeople, artists. Part of that can be done by embracing a
progressive view and the definition of a home business.
G. Bittner suggested surveying residents to identify the wants and needs of the community. There are many car dealerships and
auto repair shops, but no auto parts store. Development needs to be looked at that supports what is already existing; the
services thal people now go lo Leominster and Fitchburg to have. Lunenburg needs to try and find appropriate places for those
things. He noled physically accessing some commercial properties can be problematic.
P. Bertram agreed, noting first the framework needs to be defined. What is it that we are hoping to accomplish? She wants
Lunenburg lo improve and enhance the open space that it has, then put together businesses that will complement those
opportunities.
M. Jeffreys noted if you live south of Massachusetts Avenue, there is really no reason to come to the center of Town unless one
wants to go lo the post office, Depending on where an individual lives delermines how that person uses the Town. Who is
coming through Lunenburg? Focus needs lo be on services to the existing residents, such as ecotourism. The first step is to
poll the community and find out what they want. Possibly solar as a form of revenue?
===PAGE 3===
Minules 09.12.17
Page 3
D. Prokowiew stated his background is in marketing and when he looks at the Town he sees a bunch of issues
Lack of
infrastructure; il needs to be made easier for people who are looking for someplace to land. Vision Is lacking and the Boards
need to find what is needed to assist in this area to grow. There seems to be an expectation that the Boards are going to come
up with the right thing for the right spot and make all these things happen.
P. Bertram stated the Boards can gulde that vision by determining what type of things they want to encourage. That is one of the
She is pushing to support existing businesses and farms and finding out what they need, D. Prokowiew
hoped this will result in existing businesses coming up with ideas to market themselves and each other. P. Bertram added if the
Town wants to maintain ils rural characteristic, that doesn't necessarily mean encouraging commercial/industrial growth. We
want to be very careful about unintended consequences and what we want as a community.
M. Allison spoke about promoting farmers and their value added products through the Agricultural Commission and possibly
accomplish that by using Town property. He noted the recent trend toward smaller farms with less acreage versus bigger ones.
Less than forty years ago Lunenburg had three aclive dairy farms. There are still wo of them; one sells exclusively to Garlick,
the other sells directly to the public. People could reinvest their money into the Town by buying local food.
M. Jeffreys staled he has had conversations with Steve Powell of Powell Sand and Gravel, an abulter to his property. He
disclosed according to the rules this is a conflict of interest, but Mr. Powell is interested In swapping land with the Town, but
would also like to take some Town land and turn some into park areas.
D. Prokowiew asked if there was a possibility to talk lo existing landowners and irading properlies.
Further discussion ensued about how to proceed for economic development, what the next steps are, what would it cost, etc.
Should there be an economic development committee and what would their charge be?
M. Jeffreys asked if large properties in Town that could be buildable have been identified. What is their potential if they follow the
bylaws? That needs to be kept in mind going forward.
A. Burney stated the Boards could talk to MRPC regarding a buildout analysis of residential properly. The ability for a Town to
deny subdivision approval is very small especially if they are following the Town's rules and regulations. Another question asked
was how many vacant retail businesses do we have?
H. Lemieux stated a defined vision is needed. A polential next step is to update the Master Plan. The Open Space Plan needs lo
be updated. It requires reconvening the Master Plan Committee. The visionary process will incorporate the community through
Survey Monkey, workshops, etc. Another lake away is supporting local businesses. Through MRPC a workshop can be held
with the businesses to find out their concerns. An economic development commitlee can be formed.
Suggestion was made to talk lo the Conservation Commission to see what they would like lo see on the properties under their
jurisdiction, Do they want to be listed on regional trail maps? There were many recommendations on the 2011 Open Space
Plan that were never completed. Another suggestion was to look at large-scale solar facilities in Town and see how they are
structured and how they contribute to the Town.
M. Allison stated a lot of the talk about economic development is about bringing people into Town. There are numerous
resources through the farmers if they are given the opporlunity to nourish. Recreation is a big draw. There is a golf course
which is bringing in a solar facility; the Town has a driving range and a puppet theater.
Whalom Park, consisting of a BMX track, two drive-in theaters, a roller skating rink, a video arcade and a bowling alley Is gone.
D. McQuaid noted making the community affordable doesn't just mean price. Does the Town afford opportunity for social and
cultural events? J. Toale noted there is plenty of food for thought on what the next steps will be. He would like to invite the
Sewer Commission as weil as others to the next workshop.
===PAGE 4===
Minules 09:12:17
Page 4
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Heather Bowen, 188 Flat Hill Road - thanked the Boards for this brainstorming. She asked them to consider as going forward
the difference between the Stillman Country Fair permitling process and the estimated 3,000 people brought into Town under
agri-tourism and the Unifier Festival permitting process which brought in 500-600 people. They were both on private land and
about celebrating the land.
Kaley Adams; 45 Williams Drive - related how the Bolion community combined art with farming and promoted the local artists'
businesses. She suggested looking at other communities to see what they are doing to bring revenue into their towns.
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street - stated as we talk about the Town Center and what we can do with what we have, we need to
start thinking about parking.
J. Toale recommended coming back with some goals and action items for the next step.
Motion made, D. Prokowiew, Second, M. Allison, to adjourn the Planning Board meeting. All aye.
Adjourned 9:23 PM.
Minules/2017/09.12.17
