===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice-Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clk.
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
STEMBURG, MAST
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
DIB
IN CORPORAT
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing
Town Meeting Warrant Articles
April 10, 2017
Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:35 PM
Present: Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, Adam R. Burney
Absent: David Prokowiew
The Hearing opened with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on March 27 and April 3,
2017. The Hearing was to amend the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg by repealing Section 6.2. Lot
Monuments, amend the Table of Contents to reflect same, amend Section 6.4. Driveways and Entrances, Sub
Section 6.4.3.e) by adding 11., 11.a), and 11.b), and enact certain changes to the text of the Protective Bylaw as
noted by deletions and additions as set forth in the document entitled 'FINAL DRAFT (RED LINE VERSION)
February 21, 2017". Notices were sent to abutting towns, cities, agencies and Town departments.
Article
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.0, General Provisions Affecting All Districts, by deleting
Sections 6.2 Lot Monuments, or take any action relative thereto.
6.2. Lot Monuments
5.2.1. No building permit shall be approved for a new dwelling unit until existing permanent or new permanent
monuments, a minimum of thirty (30) inches in length, have been installed defining a lot
A. Burney noted this is an old way of marking property and marking property is more GPS-based now. There was
lengthy Board discussion on Section 6.2. with some Board members for retaining the Section and others for deleting
the Section. K. Chenis agreed that this is not commonly done, but was looking for solid information that it is not done
in other communities. M. Allison disagreed with repealing and opined that it is important for right-of-ways and
property that may be deeded to the Town. D. McQuaid did not think retaining the Section was critical, but opined it
should go to Town Meeting and let the citizens make that decision. G. Bitter opined retaining the Section could
lessen property line issues in the future.
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street-speaking as a member of the Board of Health noted that the Board is concerned
with removal of this Section, but will not have an official response until Annual Town Meeting to allow for continued
discussion at the next Board of Health meeting on April 17m. Speaking as a private citizen he opined that
enforcement of the Section is essential for property owners.
RECEIVED & FILED
• APR 2 5 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
Minutes
TM Warrant Article 04.10.17
Page 2
Final Board consensus was for removing the Article and reworking the language.
D. Passios voiced his agreement with the Board consensus to withdraw the Article from the Warrant.
Hearing closed 7:13 PM
Hearing opened at 7:14 PM
Article
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.4, Driveways And Entrances By adding 6.4.3.e). 11 as written,
or take any action relative thereto.
6.4. Driveways and Entrances
6.4.1. Purpose
6.4.1.1. The purposes of this section are;
a) To provide maximum protection to the public through the orderly control of traffic moving onto and
from a street.
b) To provide a uniform practice in the design and layout of driveways and entrances.
c) To provide for adequate drainage where required.
6.4.2. Procedure
Inspector. Before approval is granted, the application shall be referred
to the DPW Director and, if necessary, the Conservation Commission.
6.4.3. Off-Street Parking Design Standards
General Parking & Loading Provisions
1. Required off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot as, and loading bays shall be provided next
to, the principal or accessory use they are required to serve.
er closing of all uses located on the site in question. However, maneuvering aisles and driveways may serve bo
quired parking and loading bays if they meet the desion standards of each. Existing areas used for both parkir
and loading shall be counted for loading purposes
3. Required off-street parking spaces or loading bays may be wholly or partly enclosed in a structure.
4. Off-street parking spaces required for two or more buildings, uses, or establishments on a single lot may be
b)
Driveways
1. Each parking space and loading bay shall be connected by a driveway to a street or to an interior drive that leads
to a street.
2. Wenays Shall be docated to permiting contrace to rade on pom a feet ate lime good is er and lea
listances are available to observe approaching pedestrian and vehicular traffic
3. All curb cuts and access driveways shall be located in the Zoning District in which the site's primary use is
permitted.
4. The maximum grade of any outdoor driveway is 12%.
5. No Driveway shall require that vehicles back out onto public or private ways
1. Each parking space or driveway serving a one-family or two-family dwelling shall be set back five feet from any
side lot line and rear lot line, with the exception of common driveways and shall be designated on a plan.
All paved parts of all parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering aisles shall be set back from any wall of :
incipal building and from any lot line or zoning boundary line as indicated in the following table
District
RA; RB; O: R. VCD
LB/R;
RC: C
OP/L
Residential District
Line
N/A
25.
40
50
Street Line
25
25
30
30
All Other Lot Lines
5
10
15
Wall of Principal
Building
5
•5
*all measurements are in feet
===PAGE 3===
Minutes
TM Warrant Articie 04.10.17
Page 3
Exceptions to the Table Are:
a. One and Two-Family homes.
b. A parking space located within a structure otherwise permitted in such area
3. No parking space, internal driveway or loading bay, whether required or otherwise provided, shall be located,
wholly or partly, within the right-of-way of a street.
4. All access to parking shall be by driveways meeting
the requirements of this Section; curbs, wheel stops,
screening or similar barriers must be installed to prevent vehicles from being parked or driven within required
Screening for Parking
1. In all residential and mixed uses, or on a lot in any district which abuts or is across the street from a residential
use, any outdoor parking lot, all loading bays, maneuvering aisles and driveways, serving a multi-family or non-
residential use, shall be screened in a manner to protect abutting lots from the glare of headlights, noise and other
nuisance factors.
2. Any parking lot, which is a principal use, must be screened along driveways and around the entire perimeter of
the parking lot. The entrance to
driveways, to the extent practicable, shall be located on the side near
nonresidential uses or on streets or highways leading to nonresidential areas.
3. Screening shall consist of:
a. A strip of land at least four feet wide, densely planted with combination of shrubs, and trees with or without
earthen berms which shall have a combined height of at least four feet high at the time of planting and which
are of a type that may be expected to form a year-round dense screen at least six feet high within three years;
b. A wall, barrier, or fence of uniform appearance at least five feet high above finished grade. Such wall,
barrier or fence may be opaque or perforated, provided that not more than 50% of the face is open; or
c. Any combination of a & b approved by the Planning Board through Site Plan Approval.
4. Such screening shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Such screening or barrier may be interrupted
by entrances or exits and shall have no signs attached thereto other than those permitted in the district.
Design Standards
a. Parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall have the minimum dimensions set forth in the following table
and elsewhere in this section:
S = Standard Parking Space C= Compact Parking Space
Angie of
Width of Parking
Parking
Space
Depth of Parking
Space**
Width of Maneuvering
Aisle
S
61° to 90°
46° to 60°
45°
Parallel
9
9
8
C
8.5*
8.5
8.5
8
19
19
19
22
15
15
15
18
S
22
16
14
12
20
15
13
12
Unit Parking Depth
S
60
56
53
п/а
50
48
47
n/a
NOTES:
* Where one or both of the long sides of a parking space abut a wall or similar obstruction, the width shall be
12 feet
** Up to 2 feet of unpaved landscaped space may be included in the depth provided there are no obstructions
to the vehicles overhang.
b. To count as a required parking space, a parallel parking space shall have maneuvering space at least 20 feet
deep in front of it in an aisle parallel to and abutting such parking space.
c. Where columns of a building or structure are located in a parking lot (such as a parking garage under a
building) no part of a column may be within three feet of a maneuvering aisle or within the minimum
dimensions of a parking space.
d. The width of a driveway for one-way use shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet and for two-way use shall be a
minimum of twenty (20) feet and a maximum of thirty (30) feet, as measured at the setback line.
e. Where access or egress is provided for a parking lot, or one or more loading bays, such access or egress shall
be so arranged to provide a circulation system or maneuvering space on the lot so that all vehicles may exit
from and enter onto a public street by being driven in a forward direction and no vehicle shall be required to
enter or leave by backing and no vehicle shall have to stand within a street right-of-way waiting to enter the lot.
2. Number of compact car spaces. In parking lots containing more than 20 spaces, not more than 33% of such
spaces may be designed for use by compact cars. Such compact car spaces shall be located in one or more
continuous areas and shall not be intermixed with spaces designed for standard cars and shall be clearly
designated by signs or pavement marking. In parking lots with 20 or fewer parking spaces, spaces designed for
use by compact cars are not permitted.
===PAGE 4===
Minutes
TM Warrant Article 04.10.17
3. Loading bays. All required loading bays must have minimum dimensions as follows: 30 feet long, 12 feet wide
Each loading bay shall have a maneuvering space equal to its length. Where the long portion of a
loading bay abuts a wall, column or other obstacle,
or in other cases where the permitting authority requests,
evidence shall be provided that the loading bay and its maneuvering space are adequate to accommodate large
motor vehicles and trailers.
All required loading bays shall have an adequate travel isle to provide access. This may be separately located or
through the parking area. In either instance the "Truck Route" shall be clearly delineated by signage or pavement
marking. An adequate travel path shall provide width and turning radii appropriate to a WB-55 or the largest truck
expected to deliver goods to the site, whichever is larger.
4. Marking. In a parking lot or loading area, the surface of the parking lot or loading area shall be painted, marked
or otherwise delineated so that the location of the parking spaces and loading bays is apparent, and signs shall be
erected indicating that loading bays, and, if necessary, compact or other reserved parking spaces, are reserved for
such use. Where 50% or more of the required parking spaces in a parking lot are assigned, such as to individual
employees or to dwelling units in a dwelling, parking spaces for guests or visitors to the use or establishment, not
to exceed 10% of the required parking spaces, shall be located and designated, by signage or pavement marking,
as visitor parking near the principal entrance to the building which they serve.
5. Availability. To ensure the availability and utilization of required parking spaces and loading bays on a year-
a. Unless authorized by Special Permit or Site Plan Approval, no fee or other charge to the parker, in addition to
a lease or purchase agreement applicable to occupants generally, shall be made for a parking space or loading
bay required to serve a use, building, or establishment.
b. Each required off-street
parking space and loading bay shall be designed so that any motor vehicle may
proceed to and from said space without requiring the moving of any other vehicle or by passing over any other
c. Parking spaces for vehicles larger than automobiles, such as large trucks or buses, shall be specifically
identified on the off-street parking and loading plan and shall be of such dimension as to accommodate the
specified type of vehicle. Such vehicles shall be permitted to park only in the spaces so identified and approved.
6. Snow storage. An aggregate area equal to, at a minimum, ten percent (10%) of the paved area shall be set aside
for snow storage. Snow storage shall be designated, at a minimum, in two separate and distinct places on the
property. These areas shall be located on the submitted off-street parking and loading plan.
in addition snow storage shall be prohibited from:
a. Being located on/in stormwater structures or ponds;
b. Impacting the sight lines at intersections both within the site and where the site driveway meets public
c. Being located in/on off-street parking spaces that are required per the Protective Bylaw.
a. All required
parking spaces and loading bays, maneuvering aisles, and driveways shall have a durable,
dustless, all-weather surface suitable for year-round use,
such as asphalt or concrete, and shall dispose of
surface water by grading and drainage in such a manner that no surface water shall drain onto any public way
or onto any lot in other ownership. For one and two-family homes this requirement shall only apply to the
length of the driveway from the edge of pavement to twelve feet (12') within the property line.
b. It is the intent of this Section that the paved surface of a parking lot or loading area shall be limited to such
areas as are necessary for the parking spaces, loading bays, maneuvering aisles, and driveways required to
meet the provisions of this Section. The off-street parking and loading plan required by this Section shall
demonstrate that all paved areas associated with a parking lot are necessary for the storing, standing, or
maneuvering of vehicles; the permitting authority may deny the request for a permit when more area is paved
than is necessary to comply with the provisions of this Section.
8. Grade. The maximum grade of any required maneuvering aisle, parking space, or loading bay shall be 10%.
9. Landscaping.
a. On at least three sides of the perimeter of an outdoor parking lot containing 20 or more parking spaces,
there must be at least one tree for every eight parking spaces abutting the perimeter; such trees must be
spaced so that some part of a parking space is not more than 30 feet from the center line of a tree.
b. In the interior part of an outdoor parking lot where two rows of parking spaces containing a total of 10 or
more parking spaces face each other, a landscaped open space not less than five feet in width must be
provided. The landscaped strip may be provided either:
i. Between the rows of parking spaces parallel to the aisle; or
il. In two or more strips parallel to the spaces and extending from the aisle serving one row of spaces to
the aisle serving the other row of spaces. There must be, in each such strip, at least three trees and in all
such strips not fewer than one tree for every eight parking spaces in the interior part of the parking lot.
Trees must be spaced so that some part of each parking space is not more than 30 feet from the centerline
===PAGE 5===
Minutes
TM Warrant Article 04.10.17
Page 5
c. Trees required by this Section shall be at least two inches in diameter at a height four feet above the ground
at time of planting and shall be of a species characterized by suitability and hardiness for location in a parking
lot. To the extent practicable, existing trees shall be retained and used to satisfy this Section.
10. Exception for one-family or two-family dwelling. The provisions of 6.4.3 b) 5; 6.4.3 e) 4, 5 & 6 with regard to
backing into a public street, marking of pavement, moving of vehicles and surfacing and drainage and snow
storage shall not apply where parking is provided for any one-family or two-family dwelling.
11. Not more than two (2) primary dwellings may maintain one (1) common entrance and/or driveway.
driveway shall be located through the frontage or access strip of both lots equally, including lots with reduced fifty
Such driveway should be permitted only after issuance of a building permit and shall relate
to the design and construction standards as for 6.4.3.a)., 6.4.3.c)., and 6.4.7.a)
a) Such driveway shall not provide potential access to lots not shown on an accepted plan.
b) If such a common driveway cannot be located as determined above, a determination may be made by the
Planning Board and Building Official for other acceptable locations.
1. Required spaces. In any parking area with twenty or more spaces as defined in the parking and loading tables,
of two bicycle parking spaces shall be provided, and one additional bicycle parking space shall be
provided for each increment of 20 motor vehicle parking spaces over 40 vehicle spaces.
2. Placement and access. Bicycle parking shall be located near the primary entrance(s) of the building. Half of the
bicycle parking spaces shall be provided as long-term parking, safe and secure from vandalism and theft and
protected from the elements. The other half shall be provided as short-term (customer or visitor) parking, and
short-term parking spaces shall be visible and convenient to the building entrance. Bicycle parking apparatus shall
not be installed in a manner that will cause obstruction of pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic. Bicycle parking shall
be situated in such a way that normal snow removal activities and snow storage do not impact the bicycle parking
3. Dimensional Regulation. Each bicycle parking space shall be sufficient to accommodate a bicycle six feet in
length and two feet in width.
4. Design. Bicycle parking apparatus shall be of a high-security design to which the frame and wheel of a parked
bicycle may be attached; installed in a visible location to deter vandalism and theft; and permanently mounted to
the ground or to a building or other immovable structure. Inverted-U-frame or other racks that support the bicycle
at two or more points above the center of gravity are required.
The above Article reinserts, as 11., 11a), and 11b), common driveway language inadvertently deleted from the Bylaw when
Section 6.4. was redone. The Board members made some minor word changes, but the intent does not change.
Hearing closed 7:26 PM
Documents used at hearing:
Zoning Warrant Articles
Minutes/public hearings 2017/TM Warrant Article 04.10.17
