===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 :: 2017
LUNENBURG TON.%
CLERK OFFI
Gregory Bittner, Chair
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair
D18
ІНСОЛО»
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing (cont'd)
994 Northfield Road
October 23, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:35 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
The Hearing continuation was to hear and discuss an application for a Special Permit and Site Plan Approval under §4.15. and
§8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of a 6MW large-scale ground-mounted photovoltaic
installation at 994 Northfield Road (Map 037, Parcel 0013).
The Applicant, Settlers Solar, LLC, was represented by Robert Oliva, David E. Ross Associates (DER); Attorney Robert Bowen;
Ethan Gyles, PE, Development Manager, and Alan Clapp, PE, Director, Development Projects, NEXAMP.
Attorney Bowen prefaced the Hearing Continuation by referring to the purpose of Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg,
§4.15. Solar Energy Systems-..to provide siting... for all home, commercial or industrial installations. ...Large-Scale Ground-
Mounted Photovoltaic installations outside of the Solar Overlay District may be constructed by special permit provided certain
criteria...are met.". It was his opinion that NEXAMP met the Bylaw criteria.
A. Clapp noted that NEXAMP appeared before the Conservation Commission on October 18. The concerns of the Commission
were addressed except for a construction schedule. NEXAMP will appear before the Commission again on November 1st.
Changes to the project are reducing the size to 5.8 MW by removing some panels close to the abutters on the south side
(dropped it by 200 KW). Trees will be cut right up to property line on golf course side, thus moving the panels more north east on
the site. The access road has been moved out of the 200' vegetated buffer. NEXAMP met with the Fire Chief on October 12th,
The Fire Chief has requested installation of a Knox Box, 24 hour contact information, training for first responders, and
maintenance to the roads through the array for emergency access. The Fire Chief noted that he did not see a need for snow
removal beyond the gate. The PILOT (Payment in Lieu of Taxes) was approved by the Board of Selectmen on October 17ü.
E. Gyles showed an updated overview of the site. The wooded buffer to the abutters on Northfield Road has been increased
from 50' to 100' and the stump zone increased so that the total buffer strip is a minimum of 200' wide on the south side. Some
panels have been eliminated on the south side of the site. A pollinator seed mix will be used in several areas within the fenced
array. NEXAMP presented photographs taken from three points on the property line inward towards the proposed array location.
R. Oliva showed site cross sections from the same three locations to show a graphical representation of the different sight lines
based on topographic information.
NEXAMP will have to file a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) with the EPA. They will also have to come before the
Planning Board with the SWPPP. A revised Impact Report addressed Traffic, Transportation and Circulation; Stormwater; Public
Services and Fiscal Impacts; Environmental Impacts; Noise and Light Impacts; Habitat; Community Impacts; and Property
Values. The proposed project will require clearing of approximately 36 acres; approximately 24.7 acres will be planted with
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 10.23.17
994 Northfield Road Public Hearing
Page 2
grasses and 1.3 with pollinator seed mix. Outside of the fenced area, 9.2 acres will be left with stumps and allowed to
revegetate. A revised decommissioning plan and surety estimate was submitted based on a proposal from a contractor.
Bill Gustus (owner of subject parcel), 19 Burke Street- did additional outreach to abutters and asked them what they needed in
order to make the array acceptable.
Ron Smith, 1026 Northfield Road- noted revised plan was definitely an improvement over the initial submittal. He noted he was
willing to have his property line thickened with trees if it would benefit NEXAMP.
An email was read into record from Christopher Valliere, 1048 Northfield Road noting that Mr. Gustus had addressed his
concerns.
Lucy Hawkins Smith, 1026 Northfield Road-pleased that the buffer zones were improved.
R. Oliva noted the revised O&M (Operation and Maintenance Plan), which addresses mowing of the site and maintenance of the
facility.
M. Allison brought forth the concern of the property being designated Chapter 61B. A. Burney responded that upon change of
use, Lunenburg will have the Right of First Refusal (ROFR). That doesn't preclude the Board from moving forward. B. Gustus
noted that he does not plan to file a notice of change of use until all permits have been issued. This is covered in the lease he
has with NEXAMP.
There was Board concern as to the value of the land at the time B. Gustus files for a change of use, If any of the land is cleared
prior to the filing, that would devalue the land. It was noted that a Condition of the Decision could be that no clearing would take
place until the Board of Selectmen had the opportunity to decide if they wanted to acquire the land.
There was concern as to replants if plants fail. A suggested Condition was for "maintaining the integrity of the visual buffer". M.
Allison felt that it was important to shield the abutters during construction through plantings. R. Oliva responded that they would
not be able to shield the abutters entirely from the construction process and would prefer to plant the evergreens at the end of
the process.
In the past, the public has accessed trails behind the proposed solar field location through 994 Northfield Road. K. Chenis
questioned if abutters would still be able to access those trails through the property. B. Gustus responded that would not be an
issue and when on to note that he has agreed to a conservation restriction in perpetuity for the balance of Lot 1A.
NEXAMP is phasing the surety. G. Bittner would prefer a bond with the full amount up front. Reviewing Engineer Jeffrey Walsh,
Graves Engineering, Inc., felt that the dollar amount seemed low.
Attorney Bowen noted that NEXAMP was of the opinion that it met the criteria under Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg,
84.15.4. 3.
G. Bittner asked NEXAMP if they would be willing to Condition entering into a PILOT agreement with the Board of Selectmen. A.
Clapp responded affirmatively.
K. Chenis, Motion to close the Public Hearing, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Hearing closed 9:23 PM
Documents used at meeting:
994 Northfield Road Revised Materials w/cover letter dt 10/16/17
Minutes/public hearings 2017/994 Northfield Road_10.23.17
