===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr. 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing (cont’d) 
40 Pioneer Drive & 98 Leominster Shirley Road 
August 28, 2017 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  7:02 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4. and Special Permit under Section 
4.7. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for construction of an addition for office and warehouse space at 40 
Pioneer Drive (Map 146, Parcel 22) and 98 Leominster Shirley Road (Map 14 6, Parcel 24).    
 
The Applicant, Ecological Fibers, Inc.  (Steven Quill- owner) was represented by Wesley Flis, Whitman & Bingham Associates 
(WBA).   
 
In an electronic mail dated August 22nd, the Fire Chief noted various concerns that he had: 
 The turn would be tight for large fire apparatus, especially with vehicles in the parking spaces. 
 The fire department connections are located on the original building.  With the anticipated driveway relocation  from 
three to two entrances, the Fire Department would have to lay several hundred feet of hose to reach the connections. 
The Fire Chief would rather see the original design of three driveways which provides the Fire Department with better access. 
 
As a result of the Fire Chief’s correspondence, WBA modified the plan to take care of the access issues.  The northwesterly 
corner of the parking lot entrance has been made larger by nine (9) feet.  The plan now shows the turning movements for the 
largest fire vehicle.  As a result of the nine (9) foot inc rease, a parking space was added.  The parking in front of the building has 
been moved slightly to the left to create a wider turning movement.  The Fire Chief also asked for a way to turn the ladder t ruck 
in the front of the building; therefore, five (5) parking spaces have been eliminated in front of the building close to the connection 
of the proposed building to the existing building.  Parking spaces total ninety -five (95), which complies with the Bylaw.  There are 
currently two fire connections  on the existing building; one at the front left corner and the other at the front right corner.  The 
existing connection on the right hand side will be tied into the new connection  being created for the new building .  After 
construction is completed there will be  only two services.  A hydrant will have to be put on the property close to the connection.  
The Applicant will go before the Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance for the third entrance.  If the variance is granted, the fire 
hydrant will be unnecessary.  The Fire Chief noted he would write a letter of support to the Zoning Board of Appeals for the 
variance.  This amended plan is to mitigate access issues for the Fire Department and is the worst case scenario plan.  If the 
Zoning Board of Appeals does not grant the variance, the Applicant will have to build to this plan.  Vegetation has been shown 
for the parking area and complies with the Bylaw.  One directional sign will be added by the loading dock.  If the third entrance 
does come back in the Applicant may return to the Board for a modification to the approval for additional signage.   
 
Motion, K. Chenis to close the Hearing, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.  
 
Hearing closed 7:15 PM. 
 
Documents used at Hearing: 
Site Plan, Revised 08/28/17 
public hearings 2017/40 Pioneer Drive_98 Leominster Shirley Road 08.28.17 