===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAA
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice-Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clk.
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
15*
Tel: (978) 582-4147
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue
January 9, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Time: 6:30 PM
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present: Matthew Allison, Chair, Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R.
Burney
The hearing opened at 7:32 PM with the reading of the legal notice published in the Sentinel & Enterprise December 26, 2016
and January 2, 2017. The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4. of the
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of a parking lot at 9 Electric Avenue (Map 074, Parcel 0009) and a
building addition at Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 Electric Avenue (Map 074, Parcel 0008).
Senior Project Manager Robert Oliva, David E. Ross Associates, inc. represented the Applicant- Min Xu, d/b/a Asian Imperial.
Also in attendance was Pete Pelletier who will be the general contractor for the project. The owner has purchased the property
at 9 Electric Avenue for the purpose of constructing additional parking for the restaurant. The two lots combined will be
approximately 41,000 - 42,000 sq. ft. There are currently thirty-three (33) parking spaces. The restaurant has thirty (30) tables
and sixteen (16) places at the bar. The existing driveways at 5 Electric Avenue will be maintained. The house at 9 Electric
Avenue has been demolished. The proposed new parking lot will have a driveway connecting to the existing driveway at 5
Electric at both the rear and the front of the lot. After reconfiguration there will be a total of fifty (50) parking spaces. On
November 22, 2016, the Zoning Board of Appeals granted a Special Permit for a dimensional variation for parking setbacks.
(The plan presented to the Zoning Board of Appeas was for fifty-two (52) spaces.) As a result of the proposed expansion to the
front of the restaurant, the parking in front of the restaurant will be regraded for accessibility. The handicap parking will be
moved from in front of the restaurant to across the parking lot. Currently there is an underground detention system which
connects to the system in the street. An additional underground system is proposed under the new parking lot which will connect
to the street. Lights are proposed at the two islands leading into the new parking lot. There is an existing wall between 5 and 9
Electric Avenue which will be modified and a wood guard rail placed on top. A wall is proposed at the back corner of the new
parking lot starting at approximately seven (7') feet dropping off with grade towards the front of the lot. Landscaping is shown on
the plan. There is no walkway from the upper to the lower parking.
K. Chenis is concerned with vehicles entering the site and pedestrians walking from the upper parking lot down to the restaurant..
Applicant to look at options. There is no information available yet on the floor plan of the building addition; possibly add six (6)
tables and ten (10) seats at the bar. With thirty-six (36) tables and twenty-six (26) counter seats, forty-nine (49) parking spaces
are required. Currently proposed are fifty (50), but possibly one (1) may be lost for pedestrian access. At this time, no spaces
have been designated pick-up only. G. Bittner would like to see a complete proposal to include parking and seating. He is
concerned with individuals parking where it is not allowed and would like to see something done to make those areas
unattractive for parking. Applicant to look at. Applicant to file a Notice of Intent with the Conservation Commission. Trees will
have to be provided in the parking lot per Protective Bylaw, Section 6.4.3.e)9.a. D. Prokowiew would like an elevation drawing of
===PAGE 2===
Minutes
Asian Imperial Electric Avenue
01.09.17
Page 2
the building front. The applicant has been holding off on getting too involved with the building, instead concentrating on the
parking. K. Chenis is concerned that with a proposed addition to the building, there still won't be enough parking.
In David Ross Associates Inc. response letter dated January 9, 2017, R. Oliva responded to Graves Engineering Inc. review
letter dated January 3, 2017. Issues brought forth as follows:
1. Tree specifics will be added to the revised plans. Building Commissioner letter dated January 3, 2017 also notes that
the number of trees does not comply with the Protective Bylaw Section 6.4.3.e. (9).
2. Two bicycle spaces will be added to the revised plans.
3.
Future discussion as to whether or not the applicant shall be required to submit a photometric plan as the site abuts
residential property. Two (2) pole mounted fixtures are proposed in a central location of the parking area and will
comply with Protective Bylaw Section 8.4.5.1.k.
4.
Add surveyor's stamp to Sheet 2.
As a 40- vs. a 20- scale plan was done, all buildings within two hundred (200) feet of the site were not shown.
Revised plan will include a smaller scale detail to show all buildings within 200'.
6. All driveways within three hundred (300') feet of the site were not shown. If required by the Board, a smaller detail can
be provided.
7. All existing trees six (6') feet (typo - should be six inches) in diameter and four (4) feet above ground not shown.
Applicant will request waiver.
8. Handicap accessibility needs to be addressed.
9.
Underground detention system does not meet the required two-foot offset to ground water. Applicant is unable to meet
the offset given site grading for the proposed parking lot. The detention system will be revised to include a closed
system using solid wall pipe or some other system to prevent infiltration. Applicant unable to meet recharge for the
site. There will be further discussion regarding the increase of volume runoff.
10. Stormwater Checklist must be stamped and signed.
11. Revised plan will include a fence along the top of the wall where its height is in excess of four (4) feet.
12. Applicant needs to file with the Conservation Commission.
In response to the Building Commissioner's letter of January 3, 2017, the applicant will look at the safety of the restaurant
entrance in regards to patrons and vehicles due to the distance of only twenty-four (24) feet between the end of the parking
space and the building. Plantings will be provided between the proposed parking lot and the abutter for screening from vehicle
lights. The applicant requested a waiver from a photometric plan.
G. Bitter would like to see some parking dedicated for take-out only.
Public comment:
Alan Graham, Electric Electric Avenue-Supports the project. His only concern is with the noise and shielding of the lighting onto his
property. R. Oliva noted that the fence between the proposed parking and the abutter will run approximately one-half the
distance along the property line. Arborvitae is also proposed to be planted.
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road- Concerned with stormwater and groundwater recharge. She opined the applicant
needs to look at permeable pavement. She is also concerned with the handicap accessibility from the upper lot if the two lower
designated spaces are occupied. R. Oliva noted handicap parking will be to code and that there is still the lower lot, which may
have an available space. He has discussed recharge options with Graves Engineering Inc. A compromise may be adding an
additional level of treatment to the stormwater system.
Summarization was provided to the applicant and Board as to action items- issue of recharge, drainage, interior layout and use
of restaurant addition, landscaping, and pedestrian access from the upper parking lot to the restaurant.
R. Oliva requested the hearing be continued to the February 130 Board meeting in order to work on above issues.
K. Chenis wants a mitigation system so the recharge can be utilized and also meet the two (2) foot offset. R. Oliva proposed
various types of units, e.g. stormceptor, vortecnic, etc.
===PAGE 3===
Minutes
Asian Imperial Electric Avenue
01.09.17
Page 3
Peer Review Consultant Jeff Walsh, Graves Engineering Inc., noted there is no protocol by DEP to replace the two (2) foot
offset, e.g., no additional treatment. In theory, for this project not having a form of groundwater recharge, the best management
practice would be a filtering mechanism, but that requires vertical elevation.
The Applicant will appear before the Conservation Commission as there will be some minor work within the 100 foot buffer zone.
P. Bertram- Questioned if the stormwater standards could still be met if some of the parking spaces were eliminated, yet still
maintain those required for the restaurant. R. Oliva responded that he graded the two drives going into the upper parking as low
as possible. The only way to meet the offset would be to raise the parking lot. He will come up with the best compromise
possible. Even without the restaurant addition, the parking is still needed.
M. Allison commented that the dimensional requirement chart on page 3 of the site plan does not note lot coverage. R. Oliva to
look at.
K. Chenis noted that if a larger green area was created in the upper parking and no restaurant expansion was allowed, this could
possibly help mitigate the water issue. R. Oliva responded the offset issue would still exist. R. Oliva will look at.
K. Chenis, Motion to continue Hearing to February 13th, Second, D. McQuaid, G. Bittner discussion to include list of items-
continued discussion with abutters to address concerns, stormwater discussion, take-out parking spaces, encouragement of
traffic flow, more information on addition in regards to seating. All aye.
Hearing recessed 9:10 PM.
Documents used at meeting:
Application for Site Plan Approval
Minutes/public hearings 2017/Asian imperial. Electric Avenue. 01.09.17
