===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Gregory Bittner, Chair
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk
Michael Ray titties, Mr.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
WBURG
, MASS,
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 :: 2017
LUNENBURG TOIEY
CLERK OFFICE
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext S
Fax: (978) 582-4353
OUTLIES
INCORPORAT
Minutes
Joint Workshop with Board of Selectmen
October 10, 2017
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 7:00 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: David Prokowiew
Also Present: Select Board members Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, Paula Bertram, Phyllis Luck, Damon McQuaid, and Town
Manager Heather Lemieux
Also representation from the following: Agricultural Committee, Architectural Preservation District Commission, Board of
Assessors, Cable Advisory Committee, Capital Planning Committee, Charter Review Committee, Council on Aging, Finance
Committee, Green Community Task Force, Parks Commission, Personnel Committee, School Committee, School Building
Committee, Storm Water Task Force, and Zoning Board of Appeals.
Planning Board meeting called to order 7:05 PM.
The purpose of the workshop was for discussion on boards/commissions/committees (hereinafter b/c/c), elected and appointed.
The Board of Selectmen noted its major goals as improving community satisfaction through communication and outreach,
developing an infrastructure plan, and identifying economic development in the Town. Other b/c/c's noted some of their major
goals as follows: Finance Committee- would like to have a sense of Town priorities going into the budget season. Parks
Department- communication and public involvement. Board of Assessors- identify taxable personal property within the Town.
Continue to build the GIS (Geographical Information System) capabilities. Improve the website to make it easier for people to
pay their taxes. Planning Board- continue to address the bylaw. Increase communication with other Town departments and the
public. Public Library- continue to improve services. Stormwater Task Force & Agricultural Commission liaison - standardize
minutes and agendas Town-wide. Charter Review Committee-putting a 4 phased approach in place; 1) community outreach
and information, 2) work groups, 3) draft language, 4) community outreach. PACC (Public Access Cable Committee) - continue
serve the community through media broadcasting. Increase community interaction. Looking for volunteers for both the
Committee and the running of the equipment. Cable Advisory Committee- in negotiations with Comcast as the current contract
Council on Aging- Eagle House is now open on Fridays with no increase to the budget. Would like to increase
evening ciass availability to the public. Architectural Preservation District Commission- working to formulate its guidelines and
regulations for the District. Zoning Board of Appeals-recently revised its 40B guidelines, Capital Planning Committee-forms
have been updated into digital format.
Numerous representatives brought up the fact that if the minutes are being taken by a member, that member does not have the
opportunity to participate in the meeting. A better system needs to be devised.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes
Joint Workshop with Board of Selectmen
10.10.17
Page 2
R. Ebersole summarized with the following: Minutes are not supposed to be a transcript. They should be written such that
someone from the public could understand what happened at the meeting without having attended. Need for technical support,
agendas, minutes, GIS, website. Planning, updating data, capital improvements, communication, daily demands versus future
planning, expansion/improvement of services and duties, funding for facilities/equipment, volunteers to support operations as
well as boards.
There was interest expressed in a Town Facebook. Town Manager H. Lemieux noted that the Town website will be overhauled.
There was discussion of a formal agenda where individual b/c/c's could come before the Board of Selectmen on a rotating
schedule to discuss what they have accomplished/working on.
The suggestion of a semi-annual newsletter, which lists the
bicol's and duties and accomplishments, was brought up. There was also the suggestion of news articles in the Ledger
regarding accomplishments.
J. Toale closed out the workshop by noting that some of the issues discussed are already under consideration through the
Charter Review Committee; e.g., Town Meeting, what day of the week. The Town Manager has aggressive goals around
communication and involvement. A Committee/Board Overview worksheet will be filled out and returned to the Selectmen's
Office. J. Toale noted that b/c/c's are welcome to do a public service announcement through PACC.
Planning Board meeting adjourned 9:05 PM.
Minutes/2017/10.10.17
