===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAA
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clerk
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
March 27, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney
MINUTES APPROVAL:
03/13/17
03/13/17, 274 Prospect Street
All minutes approved.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Stormwater Task Force- no meeting
Agricultural Commission- Commission interviewed new market manager. Farmers' Market will open in June.
Building Reuse Committee- No bids were received for any of the five buildings. Committee will meet to talk about where to go
from here.
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting
School Building Committee- no meeting
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)- Will meet 3/29
MJTC- no meeting
MRPC- no meeting
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no meeting
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 270 Electric Avenue: Certificate of Occupancy issued for the first of the indoor climate-
controlled units, which also includes the office. Second building under construction.
Recodification of Town General Bylaw and Zoning Bylaws: As the final step in this project, the codified bylaws will be
submitted to Town Meeting for approval. All Town general bylaws, zoning bylaws, etc. will be put into one document and given a
uniform numbering system. As the Planning Board has bylaws/regulations which will be included in this document, the Board will
formally approve the codification of its bylaws/regulations at a public hearing on April 10th.
Board Chair accepted public comment out of order of Agenda.
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street-spoke against the deletion of Section 6.2. Lot Monuments. He was concerned with removing
anything that protects the property owners in Town. He opined that if property is not permanently marked it opens up problems
down the road.
Traffic Counts: The Select Board has requested recommended locations. Recommendations to the Town Manager will be The
Lane at 2A, between Lesure Avenue and Pratt Street (as a baseline for Whalom Apartments), Oak Avenue, turning movements
for Graham Street and/or Youngs Road, and intersection of Northfield Road and Chase Road.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 03/27/17
Page 2
May 6, 2017 Annual Town Meeting-A. Burney noted in addition to the Board articles scheduled for the April 10th public hearing,
an additional article has been added for a marijuana moratorium; that hearing will be held April 24th. D. McQuaid noted to the
Board that the moratorium article for Registered Marijuana Dispensaries at STM 2014 did not pass. A. Burney will send the
State's timeline to the Board.
MEETING SCHEDULE:
April 10- Public Hearing for Planning Articles
April 24 - Public Hearing, 496 Massachusetts Avenue
Public Hearing, Planning Board Article
PUBLIC COMMENT: G. Bittner noted there are two open ballot spots on the Sewer Commission.
Definitions and Use Table- There was Board discussion of the Definitions. Edits will be made to the current draft. During
discussion of the Commercial Solar definition, Mr. Passios noted that one of the reasons residential roof-mounted systems are
oversized is in anticipation of storage capacity becoming available that can be retrofitted to the system. Recreational marijuana
moratorium definitions will be incorporated into these Definitions.
Complete Streets- A. Burney will be meeting with the Town Manager and the DPW Director.
40B Update- Town currently not in Safe Harbor.
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:
G. Bittner asked for update on Asian Imperial, 5 & 9 Electric Avenue parking lot issue. A. Burney sent a letter to the property
manager regarding same.
G. Bittner noted he was approached by a resident regarding a stormwater issue on Reservoir Road. A. Burney responded that
he has spoken with that individual.
ADJOURNMENT: 8:14 PM
Documents used at meeting:
Minutes-
03.13.17
03.13.17, 274 Prospect Street
Planning Board Warrant Articles
Public Hearing Notice, 496 Massachusetts Avenue
Draft Definitions
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 11 2017
LUVENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes/2017/03.27.17
