===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
February 27, 2017 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
ANR PLAN:  Martha McDonald, 221 Goodrich Street - Plan presented by David E. Ross Associates.  It was recommended by 
the Board of Health Agent that the Title 5 inspection of the sewage disposal system serving the existing house b e completed 
prior to Board endorsement of the division.  A. Burney noted that Title 5 is a Board of Health issue and not specifically a Planning 
Board issue.  A Title 5 inspection should not affect the Planning Board’s endorsement of the plan.  The Plannin g Board’s 
endorsement is based on the lot meeting frontage and lot size requirements.  ANR Plan endorsed by Board. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
5 Electric Avenue (cont’d)- see separate minutes 
274 Prospect Street (cont’d)- see separate minutes 
691 Chase Road (cont’d)-  see separate minutes 
119 Massachusetts Avenue - see separate minutes .  Motion made, D. McQuaid, to accept the plan as submitted, Second, D. 
Prokowiew, discussion- the Board discussed various wording to address the plantings in the Decision.  B egin where the edge of 
the drive is even with the southern tip of the abutting neighbor’s pool  and shall consist of evergreen shrubs.  Plantings will adhere 
to the parking bylaw to block light from the parking lot to the residence.  Final consensus was that the plant ings were to be 
between the two proposed Maple trees on the north west side of the proposed parking area, be at least four (4’) feet in height, 
and block light to the house. Horizontal datum will be included in Conditions.  D. McQuaid , Motion amended  to inc lude 
screening in compliance with the parking bylaw between the two proposed Maples on the northwest side of the parking 
lot and to provide the horizontal datum, D. Prokowiew, Second as amended, all aye . 
 
M. Allison accepted Public Comment out of order. 
Jill Normandin, developer of 9 Pond Avenue -  concerned with what residents feel is appropriate in the Lake Whalom Overlay 
District versus what potential developers feel is appropriate.    
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
01/09/17 
01/09/17, Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue 
01/09/17, 691 Chase Road 
All minutes accepted.  Pen change made to 1/9/17 minutes. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 02/27/17 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force - Select Board has applied for membership to Governor’s community compact program for technical 
assistance funding for three best practice areas.   
Agricultural Commission -  A grant was received from the Lunenburg Cultural Council to hire the “Vegetable Circus” for the 
Farmers’ Market.  (This is a group of individuals that use circus arts to teach children and adults ways to live healthy.)   
Building Reuse Committee -    RFPs are on the central registry  for the Ritter Building, Town Hall, Brooks House, Passios , and 
old Primary School .  RFPs will close on March 24 th.  The reviewing committee will be the Build ing Reuse Committee with the 
addition of one more Select Board member. 
Capital Planning Committee-    Presentation made to Finance Committee and Board of Selectmen. 
School Building Committee -    There are some issues of concern - possible future issue of wa ter buildup in student parking 
area, problems with some of the touchscreen projectors in academic space, damage to roof due to solar panel placement.     
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)-   no report   
MJTC-   no report   
MRPC-  Meetings changed to first Thursdays.  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  May 6, 2017 Annual Town Meeting - The common drive provision was accidentally deleted from the 
Zoning Bylaw and will be on the Warrant. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Citizens Party Caucus, March 20, 2017- G. Bittner plans to seek reelection. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
March 13 – 274 Prospect Street and Town Counsel 
March 27 
April 10 
April 24 
 
PENDING ITEMS: 
Definitions and Use Table – work in progress 
Ownership Model Opinion – future discussion 
Complete Streets  – Board of Selectmen working on policy .  The Board of Selectmen held a workshop on February 7 th.  D. 
McQuaid and G. Bittner were in attendance.  
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: 
G. Bittner and D. Prokowiew opined there needs to be better communicat ion between the office and the Board. 
 
Upon adoption of complete street policies, the Board should consider including some of the language in the Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   9:05 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes-  
    01.09.17 
    01.09.17, Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue 
    01.09.17, 691 Chase Road 
ANR Plan, 221 Goodrich Street 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2017/02.27.17 