===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAA
203
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice-Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clk.
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
THENBURG
NCORPORA
Tel: (978) 582-4147
rax: (978) 582-435.
60 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing
496 Massachusetts Avenue
April 24, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Time: 6:35 PM
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present: Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Matthew Allison
The Hearing opened with the reading of the legal notice published in the April 10 and April 17, 2017 editions of the Sentinel &
Enterprise.
The Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4. of the Protective
Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of an office and garage for a municipal water supplier at 496 Massachusetts
Avenue (Map 073, Parcel 0004).
The Applicant, Lunenburg Water District, was represented by Anthony Cleaves, Whitman & Bingham Associates. The Water
District currently has an office located off Rt. 13, but wishes to construct a new office and garage. The office will be 2,400 sq. ft.
and the garage 6,000 sq. ft. The building will be oriented on the site such as to hide its size from Massachusetts Avenue.
Individuals passing by on Massachusetts Avenue will see only the front of the office. The site is approximately 7 acres. A utility
easement crosses the property on the west side and along the rear of the site. The site will be accessed with a new driveway
from Massachusetts Avenue just west of the existing curb cut. There will be a total of 14 parking spaces located at the front and
sides of the building. The building will be surrounded by pavement. The dumpster area is proposed on the west side. Fuel
source will be propane; there will also be an emergency generator. Water will be municipal. Sewer service will be from an on-
site sewage disposal system. To limit the use of catch basins and manholes, sheet flow on a majority of the site will be to grass
swales, as well as catch basins, and a stormwater basin. Flow that is not captured by the infiltration basin due to elevations will
go into a catch basin at the bottom of the driveway into a water quality unit piping into an area on the side of Massachusetts
Avenue. Permits have been filed with MA DOT for tying in utilities and a curb cut. The Conservation Commission has issued an
Order of Conditions as a portion of the project is within the 100-foot wetlands buffer. Septic plans have been submitted to
Nashoba Board of Health.
G. Bittner inquired if the existing culverts on the road are adequate, meanwhile noting that he is aware the Applicant is only
responsible for what is on their site. A. Cleaves responded that with the stormwater components they will be putting in place, it
will decrease the rate of runoff leaving the site and will not make the situation any worse.
K. Chenis asked about the holding tank for the garage and where the water is going. As there is no municipal system to tie into
and this is a garage with overhead doors, the plumbing code requires floor drains. The floor drains will go into a 1,500 gallon
tight tank with floats and a high water alarm system.
Peer review was done by Jeff Walsh, Graves Engineering Inc. A. Cleaves went through the review letter of April 14, 2017 (on file
in the Planning Office) and verbally provided his responses.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes
Public Hearing, 496 Massachusetts Avenue
Page 2
#1-Parking calculations will be revised to be in accordance with the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg.
#3- Professional land surveyor stamp to be added to Sheet E1.
#4- The plans indicate an assumed datum as existing conditions were done by another engineering firm prior to Whitman &
Bingham's involvement. The Applicant is asking for a datum waiver; to re-survey will set the project back. It was noted by the
Board that they had recently waived vertical datum for another project, but did not waive horizontal datum.
#5 & #6-Applicant asking for a waiver from showing all buildings within 200 feet of the site's property lines and showing existing
driveway openings within 300 feet of the site's property lines. Applicant brought forth the possibility of doing a separate plan just
to show driveway locations.
#9- Soil testing information will be submitted for the test pit located at the infiltration basin.
#10- A four (4) foot deep wick drain within the infiltration basin is standard detail for Whitman & Bingham Associates. This will
provide a connection during frozen conditions. J. Walsh noted that he understood the reasoning behind this request, but stated
that the depth of the wick drain needed to be revised to satisfy the groundwater offset or clean sand could be used instead of
stone in the wick drain. A. Cleaves will revise.
#11- A. Cleaves will submit documentation to support the sizing of the Stormceptor unit.
#12- Drainage Analysis and Checklist for Stormwater Report in the Stormwater Management Report will be stamped by a
registered professional engineer.
#13- The existing depression for stormwater passage that the Applicant plans to enlarge is too close to Massachusetts Avenue.
The Applicant will relocate contours; the 98 contour was shown too close.
#14- J. Walsh had concerns with low-clearance vehicles (e.g. lowbed semi-trailer) bottoming out upon entering the site due to the
driveway's low point and then the rise. A. Cleaves noted that he had checked it out and there would be no problem. If there was
a lowbed delivery, which rarely happens, it could park on the side of Massachusetts Avenue and be unloaded from there.
Lowbed trailers are not part of the District's normal operation.
#15- A north arrow needs to be added to some of the sheets/maps.
#16- Location of existing and proposed trees lines will be provided.
#17- Soil absorption system has been submitted to Nashoba Board of Health for review.
K. Chenis inquired if there was a lighting plan. A. Cleaves noted that a waiver has been requested. Proposed light locations are
shown on Plan Sheet P1. Most of the lights will be wall mounted. There will be two pole lights; one at the site rear and one
where the access drive comes into the parking area. All outdoor lighting will be dark sky compliant.
G. Bittner inquired if 14 parking spaces will be adequate even though that is more than required by the Bylaw. A. Cleaves
responded there are 5 employees and 14 spaces will be more than enough.
G. Bittner asked if there will be any signage on Massachusetts Avenue. Yes, 20 feet off the right of way. There are no sign
specifics available at this time.
Hours of operation will be 7:30 AM - 4:00 PM.
Temporary stockpiling areas are for erosion control during construction.
The following waivers were requested.
Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits
Section 4.1.f.2)- Plan scale of 1"=40'. A. Cleaves will add one zoom out page showing the surrounding area. K. Chenis,
Motion to grant waiver with the inclusion of a single page that has a site overview showing the surrounding properties,
Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Section 4.1.f.22)- Photometric Plan. K. Chenis, Motion to grant waiver based on Notes A and B on Plan Sheet P1 noting
Board requirements, Second, G. Bittner, all aye.
Section 4.1.h)- Impact Reports- Level of Service Analysis, Trip Generation, and Community Impacts. K. Chenis, Motion
to waive Level of Service Analysis, Trip Generation, and Community Impacts, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
===PAGE 3===
Minutes
Public Hearing, 496 Massachusetts Avenue
Page 3
There was discussion regarding the Applicant's request to waive the datum. Board consensus was that the NAVD 1988 vertical
could be waived, but not the NAD 1983 horizontal. The Applicant will pick three control points for the horizontal datum. K.
Chenis, Motion to waive requirement for vertical datum, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Applicant will provide a plan showing buildings within 200 feet and existing driveway openings within 300 feet of the site's
property lines as noted in review letter #5 and #6.
A. Cleaves noted the plans showing the architectural elevations. D. McQuaid noted that lately the Board has been requesting
prospective views from applicants, but as this project is off the road, he is not as concerned. A. Cleaves responded that the
building orientation is such that the front of the office is what people will see from the street, not the garage.
A design for the proposed radio antenna will have to be submitted. Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg, Subsection
5.3.1.3. specifies a maximum height of 55 feet. The Applicant will confer with the Fire Chief and then request the maximum
height they anticipate.
G. Bitiner would like to know the type/kind of trees that will be provided and would also like to see more landscaping. A. Cleaves
felt that due to the building's distance from Massachusetts Avenue, the landscaping was adequate.
Motion, G. Bittner to continue Hearing to May 8, 2017, 6:30 PM, Town Hall, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Hearing recessed 7:57 PM
Documents used at Hearing:
Site Plan Approval Application
Minutes/public hearings 2017/496 Massachusetts Avenue 04.24.17
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 2 3 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 4===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
I MEMBURG,
MAST
218
IN CORPORATED
Mullin Rule Certification
G.L. c39 Section 23D
Adopted Town Meeting
December 5, 2006
1,
Matthew Allison
hereby certify under the pains and penalties of perjury as follows:
1. I am a member of the Lunenburg Planning Board
2. I missed a Public Hearing session on the matter of:
496 Massachusetts Avenue
which was held on
April 24, 2017
3. I have reviewed all the evidence introduced at the hearing
session 1 missed.
Minutes of the missed hearing
Audio/video recording of the missed hearing
Other
Signature_
Matthen All
Date 5-3-17
Filed as record
Date: MA1201t
By: ADAN R BURNET,MPA.
A
Position: LAND USE DIRECTOR
Forms/MullinRule
