===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Michael-Kay detreys, Mbr.
18
INCORPORA
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
November 27, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Gregory Bittner
PUBLIC HEARING: 1 Main Street- see separate minutes.
1. Jeffreys, Motion to approve the Special Permit, Second, D. Prokowiew. A. Burney inquired as to Conditions. Mi.
leffreys, Motion amended to approve the Special Permit with plans as presented, Second Amended, D. Prokowien
Discussion- K. Chenis inquired if a construction timeline can be placed in the Conditions, noting the length of time that was
involved in the building of the patio at Bad Larry's in The Village. Adam responded that a timeline could be put in place stating
from the commencement of construction, the project be completed within thirty (30) days. M. Jeffreys, Motion Amended, that
from the time construction begins to construction completion, a period of no more than 30 days elapse, Second
Amended, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
MINUTES APPROVAL: All minutes accepted.
11/13/17
11/13/17, 234 Summer Street
11/13/17, 5 & 9 Electric Avenue
11/13/17, STM Warrant Article
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Capital Planning Committee-no report
School Building Committee- no report
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)- no report
Stormwater Task Force- no meeting
Agricultural Commission. Commission had end-of-season discussion. Market went well for the season. The Massachusetts
Association of Agricultural Commissions (MAAC) is looking for a site for 150+ persons for its February 2018 annual meeting.
The AgComm will look into the possibility of hosting.
MJTC- next meeting in December
MRPC- next meeting in December-
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no meeting
Charter Review Committee. Committee reviewing Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter. Will also be highlighting Articles 3 and 4 at
its next meeting.
===PAGE 2===
vote was required - no. All aye.
994 Northfield Road, Settlers Solar-
Endorse Decision-Decision previously endorsed and recorded with the Town Clerk.
Discussion of Constructive Approval Request- Item placed on Agenda if needed. The Board skipped over this Agenda
item as this is reserved for an executive session based on the current situation.
5 & 9 Electric Avenue, Asian Imperial- Set Conditions- The Board deliberated for the Public Hearing that was closed on
11.13.17 for Site Plan Approval. The Board wanted to review the 2011 Decision to determine if they wanted to modify that
Decision or put new Conditions in place. M. Allison noted that the majority of the concerns were from the absent Board member.
It was M. Jeffrey's suggestion to maintain the 2011 Directives in the new Decision. A. Burney noted that except for snow
removal (#6), #1 - #13 were specific to the project approved at that time and don't apply to the current project. Per process, an
as built will be required for close out of the project.
K. Chenis, Motion to approve the 5 & 9 Electric Avenue Asian Imperial plan and supersede the 2011 Decision with the
following, remove Conditions #1 through #12; leave Conditions #13 through #15, and add the following Conditions:
Abide by approvals of all other Town boards and commissions,
striping of all lots, including handicapped spots,
add handicap signage to existing lot,
fire lanes to be installed and striped as required by the Fire Chief,
the spotlight at the south side of the building will be removed no later than the completion of Phase 2,
all new lighting will be dark sky compliant,
construction hours will be between 7 and 4, Monday through Friday, and after January 1st they will include 8 to 12 on
Saturdays, no construction on Sundays and holidays,
Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Definitions and Use Table- A. Burney covered the six overlay districts; Route 2A, Floodplain, Water Supply Protection, Lake
Whatom, Tri Town, and Summer Street Revitalization.
Minor edits will be made to Water Supply Protection Overlay District.
Board consensus was that the Route 2A Overlay District should be eliminated.
Lake Whalom Overlay District- Board opinions varied. K. Chenis recommended eliminating, M. Jeffreys wanted additional time
to think about it, D. Prokowiew thought it could be redone for walkability, amenities, etc. A. Burney suggested eliminating the
District, and then create a new Section. D. Prokowiew was in agreement with that suggestion.
Tri Town Overlay District- leave as it.
Summer Street Revitalization Overlay - Discussion needed.
Floodplain Overlay District - recommended not changing.
M. Allison suggested the creation of an economic development overlay. A. Burney suggested once changes are voted by town
meeting and incorporated into the Bylaw, then the Board could begin having public discussions and possibly alter the zoning
map based on new uses.
===PAGE 3===
the Summer Street Overlay.
December 12- Economic Development w/Select Board, 6:00 PM
December 19 - MRPC presentation
January 8
January 22
ONGOING ITEMS:
Charter Review- Will be a discussion item at the December 11t Board meeting.
Economic Development- Workshop on December 12% with the Board of Selectmen and presentation by MRPC on December
19th.
Complete Streets- remove from agenda
§250-4.15. Solar Energy Systems- Place on January 8'n agenda.
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: M. Jeffreys, as a new Board member, expressed his appreciation for the support of the
Board Chair and all Board members.
Code §250-4.16. Registered Marijuana Dispensaries- Tabled to December 11#7
Student Initiative- no report
A. Burney recommended January 22nd as a review date instead of December 11th in order for the Board to cover the other items
discussed above.
ADJOURNMENT: 8:22 PM
Documents used at meeting:
Minutes-
11/13/17
11/13/17, 234 Summer Street
11/13/17,5 & 9 Electric Avenue
11/13/17, STM Warrant Article
5 & 9 Electric Avenue, 2011 Decision
Definitions and Use Table, DRAFT
Minutes/2017/11.27.17
===PAGE 4===
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
Public Hearing
1 Main Street
November 27, 2017
Time: 6:35 PM
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present: Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Gregory Bittner
The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Special Permit under §250-4.17.H(3) of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA
to install a 34 square foot freestanding sign at 1 Main Street (Map 071, Parcel 0095).
Application presented by applicant/owner Philip Arcidiacono, Lunenburg Village Realty Inc., Box 681, Concord, MA. The freestanding sign has
been requested by a number of the tenants of The Village as their businesses are not easily seen from the street. The sign will be nine (9) feet
from the edge of right-of-way and will be non-illuminated. There will be script at the top that identifies "The Village" with spaces below for
individual tenant signs. Both the bank and the post office are also part of The Village, but each already has an individual free-standing sign.
This sign will be for the tenants in the "upper" portion of The Village. The sign will be perpendicular to Massachusetts Avenue and far enough
away from the parking area as to not interfere with snow plowing. Each tenant will have a block on the sign and will be responsible for the
content and customization.
M. Jeffreys inquired if this would be considered a Contributing Property under the Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) as
the APDC regulations become effective December 1, 2017. A. Burney needs to check, but believes this is a separate structure. A. Burney
M. Jeffreys, Motion, to grant all requested waivers, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
D. Prokowiew, Motion to close Public Hearing, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.
Hearing closed 6:48 PM
Documents used:
Application for Special Permit
Minutes/public hearings 2017/1 Main Street. 11.27.17
