===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Gregory Bittner, Chair
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr.
TINFEMBURG
INCORPORA
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 :: 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
Tel: (978) 82-46 OFFICE
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing
Asian Imperial, 5 & 9 Electric Avenue
October 23, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Time: 9:55 PM
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4, of the Protective Bylaw of
the Town of Lunenburg for construction of a parking lot at 9 Electric Avenue (Map 074, Parcel 0009) and a building addition at
Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 Electric Avenue (Map 074, Parcel 0008).
The Applicant, K& E Realty Trust, Min Xu - Trustee, submitted an application in December 2016 for same reasons noted above.
In February 2017, the Board granted the Applicant's request to withdraw without prejudice in order for her to reevaluate a course
of action with the property.
Min Xu was represented by Rob Oliva, David E. Ross Associates, 6 Lancaster County Road, Harvard, MA. A project overview
was presented. Three Phases are proposed.
Phase 1- first half of the new upper parking area (16 spaces) with associated
drainage, a wall separating the upper parking area from the lower parking area and pedestrian access from the upper parking
area to the lower; Phase 2- if needed, building the back half of the new parking area (15 spaces), and modification to the existing
lower parking area for the proposed driveway at the site rear (would result in loss of some spaces in lower level); and Phase 3-
construction of the building addition and associated parking changes. The parking approved under the Board's 2011 Decision
was for 25 spaces; there are 31 existing with two of them designated handicap. Under Phase 1, 31 will remain with 16 added for
a total of 47, Phase 2 will provide for a net total of 58 spaces. The building expansion and resulting grading in Phase 3 would
result in a loss of spaces, leaving a total of 48. Existing drainage will remain. A row of screening will be added for the immediate
abutter at 13 Electric Avenue.
Requested waivers from Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits:
§ 4.1.f.(2), Plans at a scale of 1"=40'.
• § 4.1.f.(7), Cut and till calculations.
§ 4.1.f.(16), Existing significant trees.
• §4.1.f.h, Impact Reports.
R. Oliva verbally requested the filing fee be waived as the previous application was withdraw without prejudice. Motion, D.
Prokowiew, to waive filing fee, Second, K. Chenis, Discussion, G. Bitter was not in favor of waiving the filing tee due to the
time expended by staff on the December 2016 application, M. Jeffreys, aye; D. Prokowiew, aye; K. Chenis, aye; M. Allison,
aye; G. Bittner, nay. Motion passed 4-1.
===PAGE 2===
Minules
Asian Imperial Electric Avenue
10.23.17
Page 2
As there are no concrete plans for Phase 3, K. Chenis inquired if the Board can approve the project in phases. Yes; the Board
can approve through Phase 2 and then Min Xu can submit a modification for Phase 3. A. Burney recommended the Board ask
for a print of Phase 2 at build out.
Alan Graham 13 Electric Avenue-felt his concerns were addressed with plantings and lighting. Would like to see it get started.
Reviewing Engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, inc., brought up his concern of not knowing where the building entrance
is planned for Phase 3. If Phase 3 goes forward, the plans will need to be revised to clearly show how pedestrians and
handicapped persons would access the building and to show the separation of vehicles and pedestrians at the front of the
M. Jeffreys was in favor of approving Phases 1 and 2 and granting all requested waivers.
D. Prokowiew was concerned that the building may be in violation of 5.2.4.1. for corner clearance, post-construction. R. Oliva
responded that anything will have to meet zoning.
Under Board Rules and Regulations of Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, §2.3., D. Prokowiew made Motion to extend the
meeting past 10:30 PM, Second, M. Jeffreys, all aye.
K. Chenis felt plans needed to be redrawn showing a turnaround maneuver for Phase 1, noting vehicles have no way to turn
around in the new parking lot if it is full. R. Oliva responded that if Phase 1 proceeds by itself he would propose one striped off
space that can be used for a turnaround maneuver.
G. Bittner stated that Min Xu was not in compliance with the 2011 Decision, stating that there was only one handicap parking
space when there should be two. If Phase 3 does not take place, she will still be in violation of the 2011 Decision. He also
inquired of the current seating capacity. The capacity specified in the 2011 Decision is for 116. There was a difference of
opinion between Min Xu and G. Bittner as to current seating capacity. She will provide a seating chart of existing seating for the
hearing continuation. G. Bitter went on to note that if she chooses not to continue to Phase 3, he does not want to see the
existing problems remain, e.g., number of handicap spaces, customers parking outside of designated parking spaces. He is also
looking for input from the Conservation Commission. The existing spotlight needs to be removed after Phase 2.
Correspondence from the Fire Chief noted that he had concerns for adequate room/turning space for apparatus coming in off
Electric Avenue.
Motion made, M. Jeffreys, to approve all requested waivers, Second, D. Prokowiew, Discussion: as an architectural waiver
is requested for Phase 3 it was recommended that the Board approve waivers only for Phases 1 and 2. Motion amended, M.
Jeffreys, to exclude architectural elevations from the previous Motion, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
R. Oliva requested continuance to November 13, 2017, 6:35 PM. Motion, K. Chenis, to continue hearing to November 13th,
Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Hearing recessed 10:58 PM
Documents used:
Application for Site Plan Approval, Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 Electric Avenue, dtd 09.11.17
Minutes/public hearings 2017/Asian imperial. Electric Avenue. 10.23.17
