===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Damon McQuaid, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing (cont’d) 
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue 
February 27, 2017 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:42 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
(The continuation scheduled for February 13 th was postponed to this date due to inclement weather. )  The Public Hearing was to 
hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenbur g for 
construction of a parking lot at 9 Electric Ave nue (Map 074, Parcel 0009) and a building addition at Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 
Electric Avenue (Map 074, Parcel 0008).   
 
Senior Project Manager Robert Oliva, David E. Ross Associates , Inc. represented the Applicant - Min Xu, d/b/a Asian Imperial .  
R. Oliva noted tonight was to be a continuation of the Hearing, but the Applicant is now submitting a request to Withdraw without 
Prejudice.  ( David E. Ross Associates letter dated February 10, 2017 .)  The Owner/Applicant wishes to reevaluate a course o f 
action with the property and may return to the Board with a revised plan at a future time.   
 
Discussion ensued.  If the Applicant withdraws, the proposed upper parking lot cannot be used  because it would not meet the 
parking requirements; the Applicant would have to take some kind of action to prevent parking in the upper lot.  It was suggested 
that the Hearing remain open and the Applicant come in and have a discussion with the Board.  R. Oliva noted that he could 
convey to the Applicant that the area will no longer be useable for parking, but G. Bittner was concerned as vehicles are already 
parking outside of the designated parking, individuals will continue to park cars in the upper lot.  In reviewing the current  
application G. Bittner found deficiencies with the existing plan , e.g.,  restaurant seating, snow storage and landscaping.  The 
upper lot will need to be stabilized through vegetation.   
 
A. Burney recommended that the Board take the withdrawal under advisement and ask th e Applicant to talk with the Board.   At 
that time the Board could either accept the Withdrawal or modify it to an extension.   
 
D. McQuaid inquired if the Board accepts the Withdrawal, would the parking then become an enforcement issue with the Zoning 
Official as no approval was issued by the Board ?  Yes.  G. Bittner wants to work with the Applicant to address the issue and 
recommended continuing the Hearing for discussion with the Applicant to come to an agreeable plan .  D. McQuaid opined that it 
would be strange to continue the Hearing as no work is being proposed. 
 
M. Allison brought up possibly waiving the fee if the Applicant return with another application, but G. Bittner opined that if that 
discussion takes places, it should be at the time of the new application. 
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 
Asian Imperial Electric Avenue 
02.27.17 
Page 2 
 
G. Bittner is concerned with the lighting now shining onto the abutting property with no buffer in place and also wants the Zoning 
Enforcement Officer made aware that the upper parking lot can no longer be used.  A. Burney said that could be addressed 
outside a hearing. 
 
Motion, D. McQuaid, to accept the withdrawal without prejudice, but to notify the Zoning  Enforcement Officer of Board 
concerns with the site being used as parking, in addition to some issues in the existing Special Permit such as seat 
count, snow storage, and landscaping, Second, G. Bittner , discussion- would the abutting site have to be stabilized?  Yes.  
D. Prokowiew requested that a letter be sent to the Applicant noting the Board would like a discussion with her.  The lighting 
situation also needs to be addressed.  All aye. 
 
Hearing closed 7:04 PM.   
 
Document used: 
David E. Ross Associates Letter dated February 10, 2017, re Request for Withdrawal 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2017/Asian imperial.Electric Avenue. 02.27.17 