===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Michael-Kay Jettreys, Mbr.
ED
8
INCORPOR
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
December 11, 2017
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
APPOINTMENTS:
400 Electric Avenue, Request for De-Minimis Change The request is in response to the free-standing sign relocation for Whalom Wash,
380 Electric Avenue. When the Applicants came before the Board in June 2017, their desired location for the sign was within the required
setback; therefore, they went before the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) for a special permit. The sign has now been installed at the approved
location of the ZBA special permit. The Applicant is requesting a change to the Planning Board's Site Plan Approval dated June 26, 2017. D.
Prokowiew made a motion to accept the De Minimis change, seconded by M. Jeffreys, all aye.
40 Summer Street, Pre-Submittal Meeting- Applicants Aaron Cosgrove and Carlos Bismark Terrero were present. K. Chenis asked if they
were requesting approval for twenty (20) vehicles or for fifty (50) as the November 8, 2017 ZBA Certificate of Granting a Special Permit notes
both. The ZBA motion was for twenty (20) vehicles, but fifty (50) is noted parenthetically. The Applicants responded that their request is to
abide by the last special permit which was for fifty (50) vehicles. Tonight is a pre-submittal meeting before the Board to discuss design, Board
expectations for upgrades, etc. K. Chenis opined that the site seems small for fifty (50) vehicles and asked A. Burney if the zoning bylaw
provides any guidance in a parking plan for a used car dealership. A. Burney noted that vehicle storage is generally towards the rear of lots,
but there is no guidance in the zoning bylaw. As the Board does not yet have clarification on the ZBA Decision, M. Jeffreys asked the
Applicants if their plans would change if they were limited to twenty (20) vehicles. A. Cosgrove said it would somewhat; twenty (20) works for
retail, but not for wholesale. Fifty (50) provided for maximum flexibility. The Applicants will lease the property from the owners. M. Jeffreys
noted that eight (8) columns in five (5) rows is a tight fit for the site. A. Cosgrove responded that this schematic is showing the maximum;
maximum number of vehicles on site will be fifty (50), employee or otherwise. The Applicants plan to lease the site in an "as is" condition. It is
partially paved; customer parking will be on gravel and used cars on pavement. At a future point they hope to install LED lighting and full
paving.
The lot will be closed off after hours. Currently the lot entrance is wide open, but A. Burney noted that once construction begins on
Summer Street under the TIP (Transportation Improvement Program), a driveway will be formalized.
Various options were discussed, i.e., requiring the Applicants to provide an engineered plan of the proposal, and the Board approve in phases
or, waive site plan approval if the Applicants are using the lot in an "as is" condition and continuing the use in a similar way. K. Chenis went on
to note that if they do any improvements, they would have to apply for site plan approval.
The Applicants will be placed on the January 8, 2018 Board agenda for request to waive and for A. Burney to get clarification from the ZBA as
to whether or not the Applicants were approved for twenty (20) or fifty (50) vehicles.
Stone Farm Estates, Closeout & Bond Release- A. Burney gave a brief history noting that the project began almost ten (10) years ago. It is
a private development, but the seated Planning Board at that time, took a cash surety similar to what would be required for a subdivision. He
went on to note that Stone Farm is owned and managed by an association; the Town will never own Riley Road or any of the drainage
structure. The ownership of Stone Farm has been turned over to the trustees and now Stone Farm LLC wishes to close out its bond with the
Town. The remaining amount of the bond is $700,000₺.
===PAGE 2===
John Scribner, Stone Farm LLC, offered his responses to GEl's review letter (on file in the Planning Office) dated December 4, 2017.
1.
2.
3.
4.
Retaining walls were constructed prior to Stone Farm LLC's ownership.
Proposed revisions to the stormwater basin were addressed with the Conservation Commission.
He will reach out to the Fire Department regarding the installation of reflectorized markers.
The top course of asphalt was not placed on the sidewalk from the parking area at the mailboxes to the end of the boulevard
entrance. J. Scribner noted that the sidewalk was installed prior to Stone Farm LLC's ownership and he does not feel it needs to be
addressed.
5.
Manholes constructed prior to Stone Farm LLC's ownership. A. Burney noted that the invert channels on the plan show clay brick,
but Stone Farm LLC will mitigate by putting in concrete channels, which is appropriate for drainage.
6.
The asphalt in front of #1 Riley Road will be made flush with the drain manhole frame.
The asphalt in front of #55 Riley Road will be made flush with the drain manhole frame.
8.
9.
Stone Farm LLC will request comments from the Fire Department.
Protruding bolts at the back of the guard rail along the east side of Riley Road will be cut.
10. Signs noted on Sheets 5 and 8 of the plans will be installed as required.
J. Scribner would like to have the surety reduced as many of the above items will not be done during the winter season. A. Burney
recommended the Town retain $60,000 to cover finishing up items. M. Jeffreys opined that more should be held back to provide Stone Farm
LLC with incentive to complete outstanding items. K. Chenis responded that Stone Farm LLC has already transferred ownership to the
association without mitigation of any of the above items and this is a privately owned development. D. Prokowiew would like the opinion of GEI
regarding #4 above. J.Scribner agreed to mitigate.
A. Burney will get a financial figure from GEl for the remaining work and also follow-up with the Fire Department for any concerns with
outstanding items. Stone Farm LLC will be placed on the January 8, 2018 Board agenda for discussion of bond reduction.
MINUTES APPROVAL: Board members will come by the office to read the Executive Minutes of 12/04/17 to approve at January 8, 2018
meeting. All other minutes accepted.
11/27/17, 1 Main Street
12/04/17, Executive
12/04/17
BOARD REORGANIZATION: Nominations were taken for the Capital Planning Committee, School Building Committee and Green Community
Task Force due to G. Bittner's resignation from those positions.
D. Prokowiew made a motion to nominate M. Allison as the Board's representative to the Capital Planning Committee, seconded by
M. Jeffreys all de a motion to nominate K. Chenis as the Board's representative to the School Building Commite, seconded by D.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Capital Planning Committee- no report
School Building Committee. no report
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)- no report
Stormwater Task Force - no report
MITC. l Commission- no report
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report
Charter Review Committee- Meeting 12/13/17. Will be going through Article 4 of the Charter.
===PAGE 3===
to get a warrant article on for May town meeting, they need to work on this and wrap it up. D. Prokowiew noted he needs to review the latest
draft. M. Jeffreys recommended a possible January 29, 2018 workshop specifically to work on Definitions and Use Table, along with any
additional workshops if necessary. A. Burney noted to make a spring warrant, this needs to be substantially done by early February. His
proposal to the Board was to stop making changes, finalize language up to page 50 of the draft, and make changes to the Registered
Marijuana Dispensaries bylaw. He believes this is achievable by February.
December 12- Economic Development Workshop w/Select Board & Sewer Commission, 6:30 PM
Stone Farm LLC
Focus on Definitions and Use Table
January 22
January 29 - Potential workshop on Definitions and Use Table
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
ONGOING ITEMS: Economic Development- Joint meeting to be held 12/12/17 with the Board of Selectmen and Sewer Commission.
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:
Student Initiative- M. Jeffreys reached out to the school department. He wants to expand on its student internship program for student
commissions, and committees that have no staff to help them. Once he has more
information, he wants to put together a presentation series for students on how town government works.
Code §250-4.16. Registered Marijuana Dispensaries- M. Jeffreys is proposing to protect the farmers by keeping language that allows for
cultivation on land that is used for agricultural uses, but restrict the cultivation to buildings. He also proposes changing D.(2) and F.(2) of the
current bylaw Section 4.16. to allow by special permit instead of by right in residential zoning and increasing the current setback from 200 feet
ADJOURNMENT: 8:00 PM
Documents used at meeting:
400 Electric Avenue- Request for Diminimus Change
40 Summer Street- Pre-Submittal Letter
Stone Farm Estates, Riley Road- Request for Bond Release
Minutes-
11/27/17
11/27/17, 1 Main Street
12/04/17, Executive
12/04/17
Definitions and Use Table, DRAFT
District Local Technical Assistance, Request for Service Delivery
Minutes/2017/12.11.17
