===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
274 Prospect Street (cont’d) 
March 13, 2017 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time: 6:38 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Also Present:  Joel Bard, Town Counsel 
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss applications for special permit under Section 4.12. Lake Whalom Overlay District and site 
plan approval under Section 8. 4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for a 22-unit townhouse development at 274 
Prospect Street, Map 98, Parcel 10.   
 
The Applicant was  not represented.  A Request to Withdraw Without Prejudice was presented to the Board at the February 27,  
2017 Hearing continuation.   
 
A brief summarization of the project’s history was given.  The Building Commissioner had previously submitted a letter to the 
Board noting that the Board had purview to approve the appropriate density for the site.  At the request of the Applicant, the 
Building Commissioner issued a subsequent letter stating eight (8) units per acre were applicable to 274 Prospect Street.  As  a 
result of that letter, Board consensus was to petition August 2016 Special Town Meeting to remove th e Lake Whalom Overlay 
District; the Article did not pass.  Following STM, Town Counsel submitted an opinion letter to the Planning Board refuting the 
opinion of the Building Commissioner and stated he did not feel the proposed site qualified for application under the LWOD.     
 
Before approving the Applicant’s request for Withdrawal Without Prejudice, the Board was seeking Town Counsel’s opinion that 
the Applicant is not eligible under the LWOD.  Town Counsel opined there are no ten (10) acres parcels left in the LWOD; the 
Applicant is not eligible for a waiver as they don’t have ten (10) acres.  He went on to note that ultimately it is up the Bo ard to 
interpret the LWOD Bylaw.  The Board inquired as to what action should be taken if the Applicant reapplies.   Town Counsel 
responded that the Board should accept and act on the application  to avoid the risk of a constructive grant .  During the hearing 
process, the Board could take a position and at that time deny the application as not qualifying under a special permit.     
 
Town Counsel noted that if the Board remains silent, it is deemed to be With Prejudice; then the Applicant will be under a two -
year ban from bringing the same project back.  If an application is submitted within those two years, it has to be materially 
different.  If the Board accepts Withdrawal Without Prejudice, the Applicant can reapply at any time.   
 
Motion, D. McQuaid, to accept the Withdrawal Without Prejudice, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.   
 
Hearing closed 7:00 PM. 
 
minutes/public hearings 2017/274 Prospect Street_03.13.17 