===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
274 Prospect Street (cont’d) 
February 27, 2017 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time: 7:04 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
(The continuations of this Hearing to January 23 and February 13, 2017 were postponed due to Board meeting cancellation s as 
a result of inclement weather. )  The Hearing is to hear and discuss applications for special permit under Section 4.12. Lake 
Whalom Overlay District and site plan approval under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for a 22-unit 
townhouse development at 274 Prospect Street, Map 98, Parcel 10.   
 
The Applicant was represented by Wesley Flis, Whitman and Bingham Associates (WBA).  WBA letter dated February 27, 2017, 
subject:  Request to Withdraw Without Prejudice was presented to the Board.   W. Flis noted there have been some documents 
from Town Counsel and the Building Commissioner submitted to the Planning Board since the last Hearing, and after reviewing 
those documents, the Applicant wants to withdraw his application.  A. Burney added that the Applicant wants to assess their 
options for the  site.  The application is 38 days into the 90 day timeclock taking into account continuances from the original 
Hearing date of September 12, 2016.   
 
D. McQuaid had issues with a Withdrawal without Prejudice due to what the neighbors have been through ove r the past two 
years.  W. Flis responded that  the original letter from the Building Inspector is a lot different than the letter from Town Counsel  
and that if the Applicant had been aware of Town Counsel’s opinion earlier, they probably would not have subm itted for Site Plan 
Approval.  A. Burney emphasized that this is not the same Applicant that submitted the previous application .  This would be the 
third continuation on this application, but now the Applicant is asking to withdraw.  This application was o riginally heard on 
September 12 th, continued to October 24 th, continued to January 23 rd but due to inclement weather and meeting cancellations, 
this has been the first time the Applicant has been back before the Board.  Town Counsel’s opinion has not yet b een discussed 
by the Planning Board. 
 
Motion, D. McQuaid, to accept Withdrawal without Prejudice, Second, G. Bittner, discussion - G. Bittner recommended the Board 
not take action tonight as he feels the need to speak with Town Counsel, and to discuss the Withdrawal without Prejudice at the 
next Board meeting.  D. McQuaid withdrew Motion.   W. Flis noted that Town Counsel’s opinion would not change their position.  
Motion, G. Bittner, to take no action, reschedule to next meeting, invite Town Counsel and Applicant to attend for 
discussion, Second, D. Prokowiew , discussion - D. McQuaid notes that this will prolong the process, Roll Call Vote - D. 
Prokowiew, aye; G. Bittner, aye; D. McQuaid, nay; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed, 3 -1. 
 
Hearing recessed 7:15 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
WBA letter dated 2/27/17 re Request to Withdraw Without Prejudice 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2017/274 Prospect Street_02.27.17 