===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAA
20
Matthew Allison, Chair
Damon McQuaid, Vice-Chair
Gregory Bittner, Clk
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.
David Prokowiew, Mbr.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
STEMBURG
•MASS
Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
СОЛОВА
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Minutes
Public Hearing
Town Meeting Warrant Article
April 24, 2017
Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 7:57 PM
Present: Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Matthew Allison
The Hearing opened with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on April 10, 2017 and
April 17, 2017. The Hearing was to amend the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg by adding Section 4.18.
Temporary Moratorium on the Sale and Distribution of Recreational Marijuana and amend the Table of Contents to
reflect same. Notices were sent to abutting towns, cities, agencies and Town departments.
Article
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, to add Section 4.18 Temporary Moratorium on the Sale and
Distribution of Recreational Marijuana, or take any action relative thereto.
4.18
4.18.1
Purpose:
Temporary Moratorium on the Sale and Distribution of Recreational Marijuana.
By vote at the State election on November 8, 2016, the voters of the Commonwealth approved a law regulating
the cultivation, distribution, possession and use of marijuana for recreational purposes. The law provides that it
is eftective on December 15, 2016 and the Cannabis Control Commission is currently required to issue
regulations regarding implementation by March 15, 2018 (see Section 11 of Chapter 351 of the Acts of 2016).
Currently under the Zoning Bylaw, Recreational Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana Retailers are not a
permitted
use in the Town and any regulations promulgated by the State Cannabis Control Commission are
expected to provide guidance to the Town in regulating Recreational Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana
Retailers.
The regulation of Recreational Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana Retailers raise novel and complex legal,
safety issues and the Town needs time to
Recreational Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana Retailers and address such novel and complex issues, as
well as to address the potential impact of the State regulations on local zoning and to undertake a planning
process to consider amending the Zoning Bylaw regarding regulation of Recreational Marijuana Establishments
and Marijuana Retailers and other uses related to the regulation of recreational marijuana. The Town intends
to adopt a temporary moratorium on the use of land and structures in the Town for Recreational Marijuana
Establishments and Marijuana Retailers so as to allow the Town sufficient time to engage in a planning process
to address effects of such structures and uses in the Town and to adopt provisions of the Zoning Bylaw in a
manner consistent with sound land use planning goals and objectives.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, TM Warrant Article, 04.24.17
Page 2
4.18.2
Definitions.
"Manufacture", to compound, blend, extract, infuse or otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.
"Marijuana accessories", equipment, products, devices or materials of any kind that are intended or designed for
use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
"Marijuana cultivator", an entity licensed to cultivate, process and package marijuana, to deliver marijuana to
marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers.
"Marijuana establishment", a marijuana cultivator, marijuana testing facility, marijuana product manufacturer,
marijuana retailer or any other type of licensed marijuana-related business.
'Marijuana product manufacturer", an entity licensed to obtain, manufacture, process and package marijuana
and marijuana products, to deliver marijuana and marijuana products to marijuana establishments and to
transfer marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers.
"Marijuana products", products that have been manufactured and contain marijuana or an extract from
marijuana,
including concentrated forms of marijuana and products composed of marijuana and other
ingredients that are intended for use or consumption, including edible products, beverages, topical products,
ointments, oils and tinctures.
"Marijuana testing
entity licensed to test marijuana
and marijuana products, including
"Marijuana retailer", an entity licensed to purchase and deliver
marijuana
and marijuana products from
marijuana establishments and
to deliver, sell or otherwise transfer marijuana and marijuana products to
marijuana establishments and to consumers.
4.18.3
Temporary Moratorium.
For the reasons set forth above and notwithstanding any other provision of the Zoning Bylaw to the contrary,
the Town hereby adopts a temporary moratorium
on the use of land or structures for Recreational Marijuana
Establishments and Marijuana Retailers.
The moratorium shall be in effect through November 30, 2018.
During the moratorium period, the Town shall undertake a planning process to address the potential
impacts of recreational marijuana in the
Town, consider the Cannabis Control Commission regulations
regarding Recreational Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana Retailers and related uses,, determine whether
the town will prohibit on-site consumption at Recreational Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana Retallers and
shall consider adopting new provisions of the Zoning Bylaw to address the impact and operation of Recreational
Marijuana Establishments and Marijuana Retailers and related uses.
4.18.4 Severability.
The provisions of this Bylaw are severable, If any provision, paragraph, sentence, or clause of this Bylaw or the
establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid the remaining
portions shall remain in full force and effect.
A. Burney noted minor modifications were made as a result of Town counsel review. Two changes, noted above in italicized
bold, will be made on Town Meeting floor.
The Warrant Article prohibits the location of recreational marijuana related uses from now until December 1, 2018 or until the
Town has added language to the Zoning Bylaw that would permit them in appropriate areas of Town.
A handout will be available for Town Meeting.
RECEIVED & FILED
• K. Chenis, Motion to close the Hearing, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Hearing closed at 8:12 PM.
Document used at hearing:
Zoning Warrant Article
MAY 2 3 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes/public hearings 2017/TM Warrant Article 04.24.17
