===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr.
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
May 14, 2018
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
APPOINTMENT: 7 Trillium Court, Non-Material Change- John Arnold of 7 Trillium Court, noted that the previousy existing
deck was in poor condition and therefore demolished. He wishes to replace that deck with a deck in a similar pattern, but wants
to increase it by a two-foot (2) expansion. His request has been approved by the Board of Trustees. The two-foot (2)
expansion will not encroach on the wetlands. A. Burney provided a summary on the construction at Woodlands noting that all
buildings are required to be constructed per the permitted plan; any changes are to be submitted to the Planning Board. J.
Arnold resides in one of the single family homes, but per the special permit approval, he has to come before the Board. J. Arnold
is looking for a finding from the Board that his request is a non-material change. M. Jeffreys made a motion to approve the
non-material change, K. Chenis, seconded, all aye.
PUBLIC HEARING: Tri Town Landing, 37 Youngs Road-see separate minutes.
MINUTES APPROVAL:
4/23/18- D. Prokowiew made a motion to approve the minutes of 4/23/18, M. Jeffreys seconded, all aye.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting
Storm Water Task Force- meeting May 17# to go over grant application
Agricultural Commission- meeting May 17t
MJTC- no report
OReC pace Ad Hoc Commite: Meeting held May on for discussion of updaling the Open Space and Recreation Plan. A
public iriormation mating wil a scheculed for May 30 With various boards, commissions and committes invited to provilio
Charter Review Committee- meeting May 23rd
Green Community Task Force- Meeting held week of May 6l. Information was received regarding the streetlight buyback
program.
DIRECTOR'S ITEMS:
Town Meeting- Follow-Up Discussion- All zoning Articles passed with the exception of Article 34 regarding Section 250- 8.3.
This will be an ongoing discussion item during upcoming Board meetings.
===PAGE 2===
Town Meeting. A "'listening session" will be placed on the June 25'h Board agenda for public input. The Board will look to Town
Counsel for assistance. The Board will work on the bylaw during July and August, with a draft available for the public in
September.
§250-4.15. Solar Energy Systems- no report
MEETING SCHEDULE:
May 19- Town Election
June 11- Tri Town Landing Hearing Continuation
June 25- Listening Session for Recreational Marijuana Bylaw
ONGOING ITEMS:
Village at Flat Hill, Drainage Review-A. Burney and the DPW Director will bring this to the Board of Selectmen for discussion.
§250 - 6.5. Sign Bylaw- no report
Economic Development MRPC, through the District Local Technical Assistance program, is working with the Board of
Selectmen on a Town business brochure. G. Bittner would like A. Burney to follow-up on a possible chairs' meeting. A. Burney
recommended this be put on hold until after the Board's annual reorganization next month.
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:
M. Jeffreys wanted the Board to know what a rewarding experience he had while serving on the Board.
M. Jeffreys noted that he plans to continue working on student initiative.
ADJOURNMENT: 8:34 PM
RECEIVED & FILED
Documents used at meeting:
Minutes- 04/23/18
7 Trillium Court, Request for Non-Material Change
319 Grant, draft Letter of Support
Minutes/2018/05.14.18
JUN 25 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
