===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Tanner Cole, Mbr. 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
      
Minutes 
Executive Session 
July 9, 2018 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
 
Present:  Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Tanner Cole, Adam R. Burney 
Also Present: Town Counsel Adam Costa 
 
Board Chair requested a Motion to enter Executive Session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21, to discuss strategy 
with respect to litig ation, namely Town of Lunenburg v. Settlers Solar, et al. , Worcester Superior Court 
Docket No. 1785CV01959 -D, and Settlers Solar, LLC, et al. v. Town of Lunenburg, et al. , Land Court Docket 
No. 17 MISC 000690 (HPS), where an open meeting may have a detrime ntal effect on the litigating position of 
the Town, to enter back into Regular Session. Kenneth Chenis Made the Motion to enter Executive Session, 
Seconded by Matthew Allison, Roll Call Vote, T. Cole, aye, D. Prokowiew, aye, K. Chenis, aye, M. Allison, aye, 
G. Bittner, aye. 
 
A. Costa updated the Board on actions taken since the June 25, 2018 Executive Session with his relaying of the 
Board’s settlement offer  to opposing counsel, Attorney Michael Rosen.  The Board’s offer was to agree to remand 
with the following terms. 
1. The project would be developed in accordance with the plans that showed both the red and pink revisions. 
2. The plaintiff would adhere to all terms of the contingent settlement agreement. 
3. The plaintiff would agree to an increase in the tree fund from $10,000 to the amount of $50,000. 
 
M. Rosen agreed to the increase of $40,000 with the caveat that Settlers Solar would participate in the tree planning 
and that any funds remaining would be returned to Settlers Solar.  A. Costa responded that this wa s being done in 
accordance with the contingent settlement agreement and that the Board would spend the funds at its discretion 
through a single point of contact identified by the Board.  A. Costa noted that the Board also wanted to be able to use 
some of t he tree fund s to hire a landscape architect/professional ; M. Rosen requested the professional fee be 
capped at $5,000.    
 
A. Costa noted to the Board, that in previous conversations with the Board, there was discussion that any unspent 
tree funds would go into the Town’s general fund.  He is of the opinion that the majority of the funds will be spent.   
 
M. Rosen wanted a time limit of thirty-six (36) months from completion of construction placed on spending of the tree 
funds.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Executive Session 
July 9, 2018 
Page 2 
 
T. Cole asserted that if you clear cut 34 acres, the $50,000 will easily be spent replanting; but, if there are any funds 
remaining, they should go to the Town.   
 
G. Bittner stressed that abutters need to be able to offer their inpu t to the landscape architect regarding plantings on 
their individual properties.  The Board needs to determine a single point of contact, e.g., Land Use Director, Board 
member, landscape architect.  That point of contact w ill talk to the abutters  regarding plantings and then pass the 
information on to Settlers Solar.  Following conversations with the abutters and landscape architect, a tree plan w ill 
be created for Board review.   
 
M. Allison inquired what would be considered construction completion.  A. Burney anticipates that will be when the 
project is turned on; A. Costa will verify with M. Rosen.   
 
D. Prokowiew made a Motion authorizing Town Counsel ’s submittal of their proposal  with a $5,000 limit on 
the landscape architect and that any funds remainin g from the $50,000 after 36 months from construction 
completion will be returned to  the applicant , Seconded by M. Allison, roll call vote, T. Cole, aye, D. 
Prokowiew, aye, K. Chenis, aye, M. Allison, aye, G. Bittner, aye. 
 
The Board of Selectmen will have to vote on the remand, and if that vote passes, then the applicant will have to file a 
new application which will follow the public hearing process.  The court does not relinquish jurisdiction until the Board 
approves the project and the 20-day appeal period has been concluded.  At that time it will be dismissed in the court.   
 
A. Burney inquired if there could be a peer review for new changes to the project.  A. Costa advised that as soon as 
the new application is submitted, it be sent out for peer review.  A. Burney also noted that the applicant will still need 
to file for a stormwater special permit prior to construction.   
 
K. Chenis made a Motion to close Executive Session and return to Regular Session, Seconded by D. 
Prokowiew, roll call vote, T. Cole, aye, D. Prokowiew, aye, K. Chenis, aye, M. Allison, aye, G. Bittner, aye. 
 
Adjourned Executive Session 7:16 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/executive 2018/07.09.18_exec 