===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Chair     Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Tanner Cole, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
 
Minutes 
November 5, 2018 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Tanner Cole, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
BOARD REORGANIZATION:  Board consensus was to put reorganization on hold until a fifth member has been 
voted on to the Board. 
 
ANR PLAN:  83 & 99 Oak Avenue - Seth Donahoe, Ducharme & Dillis, presented the A NR Plan on behalf of the 
applicant.  Plan conveys Parcel A of 4,500 s.f. to 99 Oak Avenue and Parc el B of 7,350 s.f. to 83 Oak Avenue.  D. 
Prokowiew made Motion to endorse the Plan, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA REGULATIONS:   
Processing Facilities- A. Burney explained that these facilities take the marijuana plant and transform it into other 
products such as candies, cookies, sodas, oils, tinctures, concentrates, etc.  
Testing Labs- These are independent laboratories charged with testing the products from cultivators and processing 
facilities to ensure they are free of pesticides, fungi, etc., and safe for consumption and retail.   
 
A. Burney believed that processing facilities should be considered industrial.  He noted that an individual that spoke 
at the last Board meeting inquired as to small scale growth and processing.  A. Burney responded that the Cannabis 
Control Commission (CCC) is trying to focus on local small business as the mainstay of this industry.  Currently the 
Board needs to determine the zoning locations for large scale; further down the road the Board can determine how to 
handle smaller sizes. 
 
Both M. Allison and D. Prokowiew agreed that the industrial zoning sounded reasonable.  There is quite a bit of 
industrial zoning at the Lancaster  Shirley town line.  A. Burney s uggested that testing labs should also be placed in 
industrial zoning; possibly commercial.  T. Cole was also in favor of industrial over commercial.  A. Burney asked the 
Board members if they wanted any s pecial conditions , e.g., setbacks similar to those in retail.  M. Allison noted 
possible exhaust from these facilities.  D. Prokowiew questioned if the waste from the processing facilities would be 
considered hazardous.  Would grease traps be required , and if so, would this be the Board’s responsibility.  A. 
Burney responded that could be included in the design requirements as applications will still have to go through the 
permitting process.    
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 11.05.18 
Page 2 
 
There was no public comment regarding the marijuana discussion. 
 
994 NORTHFIELD ROAD, SETTLERS SOLAR: Stormwater Permit- The project was approved at the October 22 nd 
Board meeting.  Tonight the Board has a draft decision for a Stormwater Special Permit.  Board members had 
previously voiced concerns regarding the impact of stormwater along the rear property lines of the abutters to the 
south of the site.  The Board was looking for an extensio n of the erosion control barrier.  The Board wants to ensure 
that the project will be monitored throu ghout construction.  A. Burney informed the Board that the Conservation 
Commission has retained the services of Thomas Christopher from Lancaster  for its review process  and he 
recommended the Board utilize this same individual.  T. Christopher has experience with review ing and monitoring 
similar sites.  This will be e fficient and convenient for both the Applicant and the Town.  This will be included in the 
Stormwater Special Permit Decision.   
 
The draft decision will be edited and finalized to include recommendations of Town Counsel.  
 
D. Prokowiew made Motion to accept the special permit dated November 5, 2018 with edits as discussed, T. 
Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  
10/22/18- D. Prokowiew made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
10/22/18, Board Warrant Articles- D. Prokowiew made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Green Community Task Force - No report due to resignation of G. Bittner.  A Board reappointment is not required 
as this is strictly a liaison position.  Once there is a full complement of Board members, a decision will be made if to 
continue the liaison position. 
Capital Planning Committee- Meeting November 6th. 
Storm Water Task Force -  Discussion of best management practices.  The Task Force  did not receive the 319 
Grant for the upper Mulpus. 
Agricultural Commission- No meeting  
MJTC-  No report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Meeting November 7th.   
MRPC- GIS (Geographic Information System) presentation given; Lunenburg still has eight free ho urs of GIS work 
available.  T. Cole suggested a cemetery mapping application.  The Cemetery Commission could utilize the 
application to identify plots with the end goal of plot identification being available to the public on the Town’s website.  
The eight hours expires the end of this calendar year.   
Charter Review Committee- no report.  A. Burney noted there is an article on the Special Town Meeting warrant for 
a report from the Committee. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee - At Large Member -  The composition of the Committee has changed; a 
Conservation Commission seat has been exchanged for an At-Large.  The Board has a Talent Bank Form from 
Ashley Maillet for that position.  D. Prokowiew made Motion to appoint Ashley Maillet to the At -Large position, 
T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
Special Town Meeting- November 13, 2018-   
§250- 4.15. Solar Energy Systems-  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes, 11.05.18 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
November 13- 6:45 PM Board meeting prior to 7:00 PM Special Town Meeting 
November 20- Tentative Joint with Board of Selectmen  for Board Member appointment .  T. Cole inquired if there 
would be an interview process.   
November 26- Craft Cultivator – public discussion 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Katey Adams, Williams Drive-  Likes to see consistency in government.  Would like to see the 
same appointing process every time. 
She wants to ensure that at the Special Town Meeting, the citizens understand that the marijuana moratorium article 
is only a vote for additional time; not a “yes” or “no” vote for marijuana. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:  
Earth Removal Permitting- A. Burney working on draft. 
Village at Flat Hill, Drainage Review & Enforcement-  
Economic Development-   
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: 
D. Prokowiew- Noted there are many different opinions as to the marijuana status in T own.  He re-read the 2016 
ballot question #4, and wanted to clarify it to the public.  
D. Prokowiew - Individuals still parking in a prohibited area at Asian Imperial.  A. Burney will speak to the DPW 
Director. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   D. Prokowiew made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 7:32 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes-  
    10/22/18 
    10/22/18, Board Warrant Articles 
ANR Plan, 83 & 99 Oak Avenue 
DRAFT Stormwater Permit, Settlers Solar, 994 Northfield Road 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 2018/11.05.18 