===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Tanner Cole, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
 
Minutes 
August 27, 2018 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew Tanner Cole, Adam R. Burney 
Also Present:  Town Counsel Adam Costa (arrived 7:05 PM) 
Absent:  Gregory Bittner 
 
Agenda items were taken out of order while awaiting the arrival of Town Counsel. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 8/13/18-  K. Chenis  made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, T. Cole, aye; D. 
Prokowiew, abstained due to absence; K. Chenis, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Green Community Task Force- no report 
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting 
Storm Water Task Force-  no meeting 
Agricultural Commission-  no meeting 
MJTC-  no meeting  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- Continuing to update the Open Space and Recreation Plan. 
MRPC- no meeting  
Charter Review Committee- no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Montachusett Metropolitan Planning Organization Subregion 3 Representative- Due to Paula Bertram and Gary 
Luca both stepping down from their Select Boards, Lunenburg and Ayer respectively, new representatives need to be 
elected.  Jamie Toale of the  Lunenburg Select Board and Kara Minar of the Harvard Select Board have stepped 
forward as representative and alternate, respectively.  Each community is allowed only one vote.  The Planning 
Board needs to make its recommendation to the Town Manager.  K. Chenis made a Motion to approve Jamie 
Toale for the MPO position, D. Prokowiew Seconded, all aye. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 08.27.18 
Page 2 
 
Recreational Marijuana Regulations-  The Board intends to extend the current moratorium over the winter  to work 
through the regulatory process,  allow for more discussion and public input in the crafting of a new bylaw.  A single 
phase of licensed non -medical adult marijuana will be discussed at each Board meeting.  K. Chenis suggested a 
straw poll be held at fall Town Meeting to get the feel of the public.  A. Burney will seek guidance from Town Counsel.   
§250- 6.5. Sign Bylaw-  Discussion on hold until all Board members are present.   
§250- 4.15. Solar Energy Systems- On hold while the Board focuses on marijuana.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
September 10- Continued Public Hearing for Settlers Solar, 994 Northfield Road 
September 24 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 & 9 Electric Avenue - A. Burney will send a letter to the property owner stating the 
remaining driveway apron is within the Town’s right-of-way and that the DPW Director will be taking corrective action.   
Village at Flat Hill, Drainage Review & Enforcement- Trustees still within timeline to complete the work.  
Economic Development-  Moving ahead. 
§250- 8.3. Board of Appeals-   Article will go before fall Town Meeting. 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:     
K. Chenis requested earth removal permitting be included on future agendas.  A. Burney hopes to have a draft before 
the Board in October.   
The following timeline was set for marijuana discussion: 
September 10 – Retail 
September 24 – Cultivation 
October 22 – wrap up Retail and Cultivation 
November 5 – Processing and Testing Labs (November 12th is a holiday; meeting will be held on the 5th instead.) 
November 26 – Craft Cultivator  
December 10 – Transporter 
There was discussion as to publicizing the marijuana conversations.  Possibly place notices in the Lunenburg 
Ledger, publicize on Local Access, and post on sign located outside the Ritter Memorial Building. 
 
K. Chenis made a Motion to recess for five ( 5) minutes , or until Town Counsel  arrives, D. Prokowiew 
Seconded, all aye. 
 
ANR PLAN:   171 Gilchrest Street - The Applicant, Kevin Hill was represented by J amie Rheault, Whitman & 
Bingham Associates (WBA) , who  presented a plan for seven (7) buildable lots.  The plan consists of three (3) 
properties; two owned by  the Szocik family and one owned by the Town of Lunenburg .  K. Chenis noted that the 
frontage measurements on the plan did not agree with the Assessors’ maps.  WBA stressed that they go on site and 
do a land survey to come up with the correct figures.  A. Burney noted that K. Hill currently has an option to purchase 
the two Szocik parcels and there is a negotiated agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and K. Hill.  A. Costa 
clarified that all the pro cedural prerequisites have not yet been completed.  He suggested the Board ask the 
Applicant to “pause the clock” or for the Board to take action on the plan, yet not release it until the owner shows 
proof of a signed Purchase and Sales Agreement and all contractual obligations have been fulfilled.  WBA  
===PAGE 3===
Minutes, 08.27.18 
Page 3 
 
recommended the Board endorse the plan and then retain the plan until all contractual processes were completed.  
K. Chenis voiced concern that the property lines could change duri ng negotiations.  The application was withdrawn 
without prejudice for rescheduling at a later date.  K. Chenis made a Motion to waive the fees for resubmittal of 
the ANR Plan, D. Prokowiew Seconded, all aye. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  994 Northfield Road, Settlers Solar LLC- see separate minutes.  The Applicant was informed 
that the revised plans are to be submitted to the Planning Office by Tuesday, September 4th, 4:00 PM.  The plans are 
to include a suggested easement to the conservation restriction area.   
 
M. Rosen reviewed the list of items to address for the Board - walking trail, up to $5000 of the tree fund useable for a 
landscape architect, Knox box, fence and rear gate, conservation easement, no pesticides, vegetation control and 
walking path to conservation area.  
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  T. Cole reiterated his previous concern with lack of Board representation at the 
Charter Review Committee.  He suggested that the Board reconsider its appointment of a prior Board member to the 
Committee.  M. Allison offer ed to reach out to Mr. Jeffrey s to see if he wishes to continue .  K. Chenis made a 
Motion that either the Board Chair or Vice Chair reach out to  Mr. Jeffreys and inquire if his intention is to 
remain and re-engage with the Charter Review Committee, D. Prokowiew Seconded, all aye. 
 
K. Chenis made a Motion to adjourn, D. Prokowiew Seconded, all aye. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   9:01 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 8/13/18 
ANR Plan- 171 Gilchrest Street 
 
 
 
 
 