===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
David Prokowiew, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Paula Bertram, M ember 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Executive Session 
December 10, 2018 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  10:06 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Kenneth Chenis, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
 
Board Chair M. Allison requested a Motion to enter Executive Session pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, §21, #3, to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation, where an open me eting may have a detrimental effect on the government’s litigating 
position, and the Chair so declares, namely O’Brien Homes Inc. et al v. Town of Lunenburg et al.,  Land Court Docket 
Nos. 13-MISC-477878 to 13-MISC-477887 and O’Brien Homes, Inc. v. Town of Lunenburg Planning Board, et al., Appeals 
Court Docket No. 2018 -P-1520, not to enter back into Regular Session.  So moved by K. Chenis, Seconded by  P. 
Bertram, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; D. Prokowiew, aye; K. Chenis, aye; M. Allison, ay e.   
 
T. Cole and D. Prokowiew are representing the Planning Board in discussion with O’Brien Homes Inc., (hereinafter referred to as 
OBH).  A meeting was held this date.  D. Prokowiew was of the opinion that OBH had no objection to the Board’s desire for 
density change, but OBH was  unwilling to give a firm number.  The meeting contained discussion of a n affordability component 
and access to Town Forest.  There was also discussion of age-restriction and possibly changing the model on some of the units.  
OBH will be subject to the affordability component  under Code of Lunenburg, §250- 4.1.  A. Burney noted an option would be to 
look at the potential development in the context of a PRA (Planned Residential Area) where the total development would be on a 
single lot with each unit having an EUA (Exclusive Use Area).  T. Cole noted the discussion included environmental impacts and 
the financial impact to the Town from the single family homes.   
 
OBH has asked for a priority list from the Planning Board.  The Board  feels key concerns are the M ulpus and access to Town 
Forest.  There was Board discussion of asking OBH to separate the rear of the property at 400 Howard Street for Town 
ownership.  This would reduce the project’s density by approximately eight (8) lots a nd protect the Mulpus .  T. Cole 
recommended OBH protect both sides of the brook and pond, and do a percentage of over-55 housing.  D. Prokowiew wanted to 
model cluster development asserting that the more land OBH gives up, the higher density OBH can get.  P. Bertram would like to 
see a senior component and more open space.  Board agreed that priorities to take to the next meeting would be access to 
Town Forest, protection of the wetlands and Mulpus, and an over-55 component.   
 
D. Prokowiew made motion to adjourn Executive Session, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, 
aye; K. Chenis, aye; D. Prokowiew, aye; M. Allison, aye. 
 
Adjourned Executive Session 10:50 PM 
 
Minutes/executive 2018/06.12.10.18_exec 