===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr. 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
      
Minutes 
Executive Session 
March 26, 2018 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  9:25 PM 
 
Present:  Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. 
Burney 
Also Present:  Attorney Adam Costa  participated remotely under 940 CMR: Office of the Attorney General, 29.00: 
Open Meetings, Section 29.10: Remote Participation (5) (e) Geographic Distance 
 
Board Chair requested a Motion to enter Executive Session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21, to discuss strategy 
with respect to litigation, namely Town of Lunenburg v. Settlers Solar, et al. , Worcester Superior Court 
Docket No. 1785CV01959 -D, and Settlers Solar, LLC, et al. v. Town of Lunenburg, et al. , Land Court Docket 
No. 17 MISC 000690 (HPS), where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the l itigating position of 
the Town. Kenneth Chenis Made the Motion to enter Executive Session , Seconded by Matthew Allison, Roll 
Call Vote, M. Jeffreys, aye, D. Prokowiew, aye, K. Chenis, aye, M. Allison, aye, G. Bittner, aye. 
 
Atty Costa held a pre -mediation conference call with opposing Counsel Atty Michael Rosen and the  mediator Art 
Kreiger on March 22 nd, prior to the mediation meeting  scheduled for March 23, 2018.  It was decided at that 
conference call for the Planning Board to post an executive session for this date in the event a pre -settlement 
agreement was reached on March 23rd and the Board could possibly come to consensus this evening.    
 
A Contingent Settlement Agreement (CSA) and accompanying plans were available to the Board mem bers.  These 
items summarized the point reached as a result of the March 23 rd meeting.  At that meeting, Atty Costa raised the 
concerns of the Board from its March 19, 2018 Executive Session; concessions were made on both sides.  He went 
on to note that what was achieved was beneficial to some , but not all , of the abutters.  He explained that if litigation 
occurs, whatever concessions gained during mediation are off the table.  If the Board loses litigation, they essentially 
get the project that they denied.   
 
G. Bittner (GB) noted that the mediator asked he and D. Prokowiew  (DP) what they felt would be needed to achieve 
a yes vote f rom the Board.  Jamie Toale was also present as the Select Board’s representative.  Both GB and DP 
received the impression from J. Toale that they were being unreasonable regarding lack of concessions to three  
abutters and probably causing this to go to litigation.  GB believed the plan before the Board this evening was the 
best the Board could do in order to avoid litigation.  DP asserted that Settlers Solar made few concessions.  Both GB  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Executive Session 
March 26, 2018 
Page 2 
 
and DP opined that if Settlers Solar had been more transparent , what was reached during the mediation meeting 
could easily have been achieved through the public hearing process. 
 
DP inquired of Atty Costa if the Board is obl igated to vote for this CSA.  Atty Costa explained that G B and D P 
“signed” onto this settlement agreement.  Hopefully tonight there can be a Board agreement in support of this CSA.  
DP clarified his question, inquiring if he, individually, was required to vote in agreement.  Atty Costa emphasized that 
DP had voluntarily signed the CSA, stating that he supported it.  DP stated that he is having second thoughts; one of 
the reasons as a result of J. Toale’s comment.  He felt he had to come up with an agreement  someone else wanted, 
not what the Board wanted.  Atty Costa noted that the mediator ask ed both GB and DP before signing if they were 
agreeing to support this resolution before the Planning Board.  The mediator also asked J. Toale if he felt the Board 
of S electmen would support this resolution and J. Toale responded affirmatively.  Atty Costa had a different 
perception than GB and DP regarding J. Toale’s previous comment.  He felt that J. Toale was suggesting if the Board 
litigates and loses, none of those concessions are on the table any longer.  They need to weigh the considerations of 
three abutters v. a larger number of abutters with the current concessions.    
 
M. Jeffreys felt it was not enough.  He stressed that he had made concessions at the March 19 th Executive Session.  
The fault detection system offered in the C SA is the same that was offered at the Public Hearing.  He stated that he 
would agree to $105,000 for the decommissioning bond as  long as they stayed with fifty  (50’) feet of existing trees, 
which Settlers Solar  did not do.  M. Allison feels that the Board is being taken advantage of, but if this goes to 
litigation the Board will not get the support it needs and Settlers Solar will build whatever they want.  Atty Costa re-
emphasized that he i s representing the Board ’s interests and has not been told to “stand down” by the Board of 
Selectmen.  He went on to remind the Board that they will lose what is on the table today if they do not agree to these 
terms.  K. Chenis noted they need to decide i f they have a super-majority to approve this tonight.  If not, they should 
not go forward.  The Board was in agreement that if this new plan had been before them initially, they would not have 
approved it.     
 
GB noted that Settlers Solar conveyed to he and DP that the Board should encourage the abutters not to appeal. 
 
There was not a super-majority vote for the CSA. 
 
Atty Costa inquired if Atty Rosen asks what is needed  to reach a settlement; the Board wants an additional fifty (50’) 
feet of natural trees on all sides.   
 
K. Chenis made a motion to come out of Executive Session and go into Regular Session, seconded by M. 
Allison, roll call vote- M. Jeffreys, aye; D. Prokowiew, aye; M. Allison, aye; K. Chenis, aye; G. Bittner, aye. 
 
Adjourned Executive Session 10:20 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/executive 2018/03.26.18_exec 