===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
 
Minutes 
December 11, 2018 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:00 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Tanner Cole, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis, Paula Bertram 
Also Present:  Jamie Toale, Damon McQuaid, Katey Adams, Heather Lemieux 
 
Joint meeting was held with the  Board of Selectmen for d iscussion of the ballot questions for recreational adult use 
marijuana.  The Planning Board wants to provide the citizens with the opportunity to prohibit some or all “marijuana 
establishments”; therefore, they are offering both prohibition and regulation to the citizens.  Both the prohibition and 
the regulations will be presented at Town meeting.  T he Board wants five ballot questions placed that could prohibit 
each type of “marijuana establishment” that could be permitted.  The five questions cover cultivators, manufacturers, 
testing facilities, retailers, and transporters.   
 
D. McQuaid appreciated that the Board was offering the five questions, but he  is against prohibition  and is of the 
opinion that this will be financially beneficial to the community.  J .Toale felt it was the Planning Board’s responsibility 
to come up with the regulation and zoning for recreational marijuana.  He was not comfortable with offering 
prohibition as he feels the majority of the residents want it allowed.  Both D. Prokowiew and T. Cole asserted that 
Question 4 in 2016 did not accurately reflect the desires of the voters; it was focused on decriminalization.  Having 
five questions grants the citizens the opportunity to decide what they want to allow.   
 
K. Adams opined as Question 4 was in 2016, a new election should take place to gauge the current desires of the 
citizens.  She supports prohibition and feels there could be other avenues for economic development.  D. McQuaid 
remarked that users of marijuana will use it whether or not they obtain it legally.  If through a retailer, one knows the 
product has been tested and the Town will also benefit financially.   
 
D. McQuaid asked what the Planning Board would recommend to the citizens at Town meeting.  T. Cole and D. 
Prokowiew responded that the Board would not recommend one way  or another; it wo uld be up to the voters.   A. 
Burney reiterated that the Board is looking at six articles for town meeting; five for prohibition and one for regulation.  
He believes that the Board w ill recommend passing of all six articles and the n have the ballot questions affirm or 
deny the first five prohibition articles.  The ballot would be the determining factor as to whether each prohibition 
article passes.  M. Allison stated that the Board is attempting to regulate what was legalized by the State.  As 
Lunenburg was a “yes” community, both town meeting vote and a ballot initiative are required.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 12.11.18 
Page 2 
 
K. Adams was in agreement with the Planning Board and feels the choice should be given to the citizens.  T. Cole felt 
the 2016 v ote was significantly different from what the citizens would be voting on now.  Question 4 does not 
accurately reflect what is happening in communities.  D. McQuaid reiterated that he feels the Board should make a 
recommendation at town meeting.  Board mem bers stressed that their recommendation is for the voters to have the 
choice.   
 
K. Adams made Motion to add the marijuana questions on the ballot as recommended by the Planning 
Board, J. Toale recommended that the vote be postponed.  As Select Board member P. Luck was not in attendance, 
she had provided a statement which she wanted read into the record.  J. Toale feels the discussion should continue.  
He went on to state that if he had to vote tonight, he would vote against.  He recommended K. Adams not make her 
Motion tonight.  K. Adams responded she made a Motion and wanted to keep it on the floor.  J. Toale asked if there 
was a Second; the Motion was not Seconded.   
 
J. Toale wants to continue the discussion when the full Select Board is present.  The Planning Board is invited to that 
meeting.   
 
Public Comment:  Karin Menard, Parks Department-  She is i n agreement with the Planning Board.  Even though 
she voted “yes” on Question 4, there were parts she supported and parts she didn’t.   
 
Discussion will continue to the January 8th Select Board meeting.   
 
T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, D. Prokowiew Seconded, all aye. 
 
Adjourned 8:00 PM 
 
 
Document used at meeting: 
Land Use Director Memorandum dtd 12.11.18, subject: Adult Use Marijuana Prohibition Ballot Questions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 2018/12.11.18 