===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INCORPORAD
Minutes
August 13, 2018
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Tanner Cole, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew
ANR PLANS:
787 New West Townsend Road- The majority of the land is located in Fitchburg. There is a small portion in
Lunenburg which provides frontage to one of the Fitchburg lots. K. Chenis made Motion to endorse the ANR
Plan, T. Cole, Seconded, all aye.
292 Chase Road (Lanni Orchards) The plan divides off the commercial property and the houses to facilitate putting
the remaining land into an APR (Agricultural Preservation Restriction). The property will remain under Lanni's
ownership and they will receive APR payment. K. Chenis made Motion to endorse the ANR Plan, T. Cole,
Seconded, all aye.
164 White Street- The property was previously divided into two lots and now the owner is recombining those two lots
into one. K. Chenis made Motion to endorse the ANR Plan, T. Cole, Seconded, all aye.
SITE PLAN APPROVAL: Waiver Request- 39 Massachusetts Avenue - Robert Dee, Dee Bus Service requested a
waiver from site plan approval to pave a portion of the property at 39 Massachusetts Avenue. His plan is to extend
the parking area for the buses with a 40 x 50 foot strip of pavement. There will be 15 feet +/- of unpaved surface
between 39 Massachusetts Avenue and the abutting property. There was Board discussion as to adequate
infiltration with the additional paving. The first 20+/- feet off Massachusetts Avenue is landscaped bark mulch.
Board consensus was that if the newly paved surface pitches towards the pervious area of existing landscaping, no
mitigation would be required. K. Chenis made Motion to approve the waiver request with the restriction that
the newly paved area would pitch toward the existing landscaped area, T. Cole, Seconded, all aye.
MINUTES APPROVAL:
7/9/18- K. Chenis made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.
719/18 Exec-K. Chenis made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Green Community Task Force- no report
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting
Storm Water Task Force- Met with wetlands consultant, Mr. Ed Himlan to change date on Notice of Intent.
===PAGE 2===
Charter Review Committee-no report
DIRECTOR'S ITEMS:
distributed draft bylaws and regulations to the Board
Tri Town Landing- Endorse Plan- Plan endorsed.
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-Appointment of Member At Large- The Board previously voted to increase
membership from five to seven members with the two additions being a Member-at-Large and a Park Commission
member. A Talent Bank Form for Member-at-Large was received from Sarah Cammer. She had previously served
on the Stormwater Task Force. K. Chenis nominated Sarah Cammer, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.
Recreational Marijuana Regulations- The Town Clerk has informed A. Burney that the prohibition would not be
placed on a state-wide ballot, but a local ballot, which would be a May ballot. Various options were discussed as to
how the Board wished to proceed
• If the Planning Board wants to proceed with a split approach, it can put on a moratorium for fall special town
meeting. The prohibition bylaw and ballot initiative would have to be held near to May town meeting with the
regulations being done for May town meeting.
• The Board could move forward with a prohibition bylaw and regulation bylaw at fall special town meeting
with the moratorium as a backup. They would then have to wait until May to certify the prohibition.
• Extend the current moratorium to May, work on the regulations over the winter, prepare the prohibition for
the ballot and have everything ready for May annual town meeting.
The option preferred by the Board was to extend the moratorium to May. K. Chenis suggested getting an unofficial
vote at fall special town meeting to gauge the opinion of the citizens; this would also allow for discussion. This would
assist the Board in knowing how to proceed for May town meeting. T. Cole suggested the Board focus on one "use"
per Planning Board meeting.
§250- 6.5. Sign Bylaw- There was Board discussion early in 2018 with a resident concerning the sign bylaw. As a
result of that discussion, A. Burney noted a suggested change to the sign bylaw. The change would allow for one
free-standing sign in the Commercial, Retail/Commercial and Office Park & Industrial Districts without site plan
approval. Criteria were also added as to size, distance from property lines, and non-illumination. Board consensus
was to continue discussion once more Board members were present.
§250-4.15. Solar Energy Systems- no report
MEETING SCHEDULE:
August 27- Public Hearing, 994 Northfield Road
September 10
September 24
ONGOING ITEMS:
Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 & 9 Electric Avenue-The DPW Director has requested a letter from the Board stating
that the Board does not wish to retain the remaining driveway apron. It is not part of the Site Plan Approval.
Village at Flat Hill, Drainage Review & Enforcement- Trustees have noted that maintenance will be done by the
end of September.
===PAGE 3===
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:
T. Cole suggested the Board give thought as to ways to publicize the marijuana discussion. He also voiced concer
with the Board's representation on the Charter Review Committee noting that the Board's representative has not
attended the Board's meetings to provide updates.
K. Chenis emphasized the difference between easement and land ownership.
ADJOURNMENT: 7:50 PM
Documents used at meeting:
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 30 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
164 White Street
292 Chase Road
Earth Removal & Placement of Fill Rules & Regulations - DRAFT
Earth Removal Bylaw - DRAFT
Tri Town Landing Site Development Plan
Minutes/2018/08.13.18
