===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr.
17
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
February 26, 2018
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew
ANR Plan: 155 & 167 Reservoir Road- Presented by Ron Koivu, Harbor Classic Homes, 45 Lawrence Street,
Pepperell, MA. Plan was a land swap to move lot lines as the house foundation was too close to the property line
and did not meet the required offset for occupancy. Plan endorsed by Board.
PUBLIC HEARING: 961 Northfield Road, Blueberry Hill. see separate minutes. M. Jeffreys made a motion to
rescind the Blueberry Hill subdivision, seconded by M. Allison, all aye.
APPOINTMENTS:
Lunenburg Water District, 496 Massachusetts Avenue- The Board received a request for a de-minimis change
as follows: 1) relocate the transformer to the west side of the building, 2) switch locations of the propane area and
generator with each other, 3) add a heat pump to the west side of the building, 4) adjust the location of the primary
utility feed from the street, and 6) add a light pole on the west side of the front parking area. M. Allison made a
motion to accept the de-minimis change, seconded by M. Jeffreys, all aye.
Al Wernick (owner of Bad Larry's located at 1 Main Street)-. A. Wernick stated that he opened Bad Larrys
approximately two years ago. The previously existing eatery had lighted signage and A. Wernick continued with the
senter District CD). Tuming them off has hurt ris business angle is hoping the Boars wit low hi have Village
illuminated signs in the windows. He emphasized that he needs to be able to bring attention to his establishment
after sunset as it now gives the appearance of being closed without the illuminated signs. He went on to remark on
the scrolling sign located at the high school, believing it is more distracting then a lighted OPEN sign. M. Allison
asked A. Burney if A. Wernick could seek relief through the Zoning Board of Appeals. A. Burney responded he would
need to discuss this with the Building Commissioner, but was not sure what hardship an individual could prove for a
sign variance. Code of the Town of Lunenburg, §250-4.17. Village Center District H.(3)(d) allows barber poles, but
specifically prohibits neon, flashing signs, moving signs, electric message signs and roof signs. A. Burney's
recollection for the prohibition on neon signs was due to the fact that the majority of the VCD was residential and
allowing neon signs would change the character of the area. M. Jeffreys believed it was not reasonable for people
residing in the center to see large neon signs in the Town Center, but suggested that H.(3)(d)
===PAGE 2===
EVICATED
zoned. Being rezoned as the VCD eliminated the Commercial District. He suggested the Board reach out to the
APDC for its opinion.
A Planning Board public hearing is required for a citizen petition change to the zoning bylaws. At that time, the Board
would vote on whether or not to support the petition article.
MINUTES APPROVAL: 2/12/18, 2/12/18 Public Hearing- All minutes approved.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Capital Planning Committee-done for the year
Storm Water Task Force- no meeting
Agricultural Commission- The Farmers' Market application was modified. A discussion was held regarding an
upcoming arts festival and soliciting vendors. A brief discussion was held on warrant article(s).
MJTC- no report
MRPC- meeting 3/1/18
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report
Charter Review Committee- Meeting 2/28/18. G. Bitter asked if any discussion was held regarding the Green
Community Task Force becoming the Green Committee. He believes they are looking for a charge to be added to
the Charter. B. Ebersole noted a charge would come from the Board of Selectmen.
Green Community Task Force- Meeting 2/27/18 to discuss grant application and streetlight upgrades.
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION: Board Liaison- passed over
DIRECTOR'S ITEMS:
Board Decisions: M. Boggio noted that for the office to comply with the statutory filing timeframe of Decisions with
the Town Clerk's office, it is necessary for Board members to come in to the office between Board meetings. She
requested the Board allow the Board Chair to sign on behalf of individual Board members. Board consensus was to
continue discussion with full Board attendance.
8250-6.5. Sign Bylaw- (taken out of order)- Edits were suggested by A. Burney as a result of a previous Board
meeting discussion with local small business owner Tanner Cole. G. Bittner inquired if sign size could be a
dimensional variation through the Zoning Board of Appeals. Yes, and the Zoning Board of Appeals decision would
also specify the exact dimensions.
Definitions and Use Table: Warrant articles sent to Town Counsel for review.
There will be three Planning Board articles.
• 4.1. through 4.7. (Use Table, Definitions, and everything through the Village District)
• 4.9. (Water Supply Protection)
• Solar, Registered Marijuana Dispensaries (RMD), and the Marijuana Moratorium
M. Jeffreys voiced concern with the RMD changes being included along with the moratorium article. Discussion will
continue.
===PAGE 3===
ONGOING ITEMS:
§250-4.15. Solar Energy Systems-
§250 - 6.5. Sign Bylaw- see above
Economic Development- Meeting held this date with businesses. MRPC gave its presentation that was previously
given to the Board of Selectmen in December 2017.
Recreational Marijuana Regulations-
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: M. Jeffreys spoke to some of the town offices that may benefit from student
volunteer support. He hopes to have more information by the end of March.
ADJOURNMENT: 8:16 PM
Documents used at meeting.
Minutes- 2/12/18, 2/12/18 Public Hearing
ANR Plan Application, 155 & 167 Reservoir Road
Request for De-Minimis Change, Lunenburg Water District, 496 Massachusetts Avenue
Minutes/2018/02.26.18
