===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TED
DIB INCORPOR
Minutes
June 11, 2018
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Tanner Cole, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Kenneth Chenis
BOARD REORGANIZATION:
Chair- D. Prokowiew made Motion for G. Bittner, Seconded by M. Allison, all aye.
Vice Chair- D. Prokowiew made Motion for M. Allison, Seconded by T. Cole, all aye.
Clerk- D. Prokowiew made Motion for K. Chenis, Seconded by M. Allison, all aye,
MRPC Representative- D. Prokowiew made Motion for T. Cole, Seconded by M. Allison, all aye.
MJTC Representative- D. Prokowiew made Motion for K. Chenis, Seconded by M. Allison, all aye.
Capital Planning Committee Representative- This is a three year term. M. Allison retains the position for his second year.
Open Space Committee Representative- M. Allison made Motion for D. Prokowiew, Seconded by G. Bittner, all aye.
Green Community Task Force Liaison- M. Allison made Motion for G. Bittner, Seconded by D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Stormwater Task Force- D. Prokowiew made Motion for M. Allison, Seconded by G. Bitter, all aye.
Charter Review Committee- D. Prokowiew made Motion for M. Jeffreys, Seconded by M. Allison, all aye.
Agricultural Commission Liaison- D. Prokowiew made Motion for M. Allison, Seconded by G. Bittner, all aye.
PUBLIC HEARINGS:
1054 Northfield Road- see separate minutes. D. Prokowiew made Motion to approve tree removal under the Scenic Road
Act for 1054 Northfield Road as submitted by the applicant. The applicants' Proposed Remediation would be followed
with the amendment to include a minimum of eleven (11) two (2") inch caliper Sugar Maples and Oaks in agreement
with the Proposed Remediation plan. Tree removal and remediation will require the approval of the Tree Warden.
Seconded by G. Bittner, all aye.
37 Youngs Road, Tri Town Landing- see separate minutes. D. Prokowiew made a Motion to approve the Modification for
Tri Town Landing with all Conditions of the January 2007 Decision carrying forward with the exception of #23 and the
addition of the following conditions:
Vital areas to include parking, fire lanes, and access points be kept unobstructed by snow, physically and visually.
• The Applicant has agreed to rent to 55+ and shall seek Board approval if a change is requested from the age restriction.
Revised construction hours under #23 shall be 7:00 AM to 6:00 PM, Monday through Friday, 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Saturdays.
There shall be a fire lane marking in the reserve parking area to maintain access to the fire lane.
The fire lane shall remain clear year-round.
Exterior lighting shall be dark sky compliant.
Seconded by Mi. Allison, all aye.
===PAGE 2===
5/14/18, Tri Town Landing- M. Allison made Motion to approve, Seconded by D. Prokowiew, all aye.
5/14/18- M. Allison made Motion to approve, Seconded by D. Prokowiew, all aye.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Green Community Task Force- no meeting
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting
Storm Water Task Force- Met May 17 to vote to approve grant submission for upper Mulpus.
Agricultural Commission- Met May 17h. The Commission has four open positions. M. Allison was voted Chair for FY19.
Farmers' Market will open June 24"h.
MJTC- no report
MRPC- no report
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- Community survey will go out with the tax bills. Next meeting June 1g'.
Charter Review Committee- no report
DIRECTOR'S ITEMS:
Board Decisions- Due to reorganization, the Board needed to re-vote as to whether or not the Chair could sign Decisions on
behalf of Board members. This would allow Decisions to be filed within the statutory 14 days of Board vote and would not
require individual Board members to come by the Planning Office to sign Decisions. M. Allison made Motion to endorse the
Chair to sign Decisions, Seconded by D. Prokowiew, all aye.
Asian Imperial Restaurant, 5 & 9 Electric Avenue-Subsurface drainage installed and inspected. A. Burney noted that it looks
like the driveway apron was left from the house; he does not believe that was part of the Plan. He will follow up with the Building
Inspector.
Village at Flat Hill- Enforcement Letter- A letter has been sent to the Trustees quoting Condition 1 of the July 22, 1996 Board
Decision; the project".. will be maintained in accordance with the following plans..." The Trustees have been requested to
orovide the Planning Office with a plan and/or schedule to ensure the detention basins are in compliance with the 1996 Decision
§250-4.15. Solar Energy Systems-
Recreational Marijuana Regulations- A. Burney requested comments from the Board on the draft survey. Edits will be made,
the Survey finalized, and placed on surveymonkey.com.
MEETING SCHEDULE:
June 18- Joint Executive Session with the Board of Selectmen
June 25- Listening Session for Recreational Marijuana Bylaw
July 9
July 23
ONGOING ITEMS:
Village at Flat Hill, Drainage Review-
§250-8.3. Board of Appeals-
§250- 6.5. Sign Bylaw-
Economic Development- A business partnership meeting will be held June 25'.
ADJOURNMENT: 9:05 PM
Minuments used at meeting:
5/14/18 Tri Town Landing
5/14/18
Permitting Guidebook, Town of Shirley
Draft survey, Recreational Marijuana
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 24 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes/2018/06.11.18
