===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Vice Chair         Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
 
Minutes 
March 4, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis (left 10:30 p.m.), Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
 
Public Comment-  
MRPC Executive Director, Glenn Eaton, was approached by T. Cole (Board repres entative to MRPC) regarding block grants and 
DLTA (District Local Technical Assistance).  The block grant program has been currently suspended as there were problems 
with the then program administrator.  Block grants usually cover housing rehab and home heating fuel assistance whereas DLTA 
is a free planning service provided to communities , e.g., bylaws, affor dable housing plans, economic development .  
Administration in the DLTA program is light; it is basically delivering the projects requested by the communities.  As a lengthy 
meeting was anticipated, G. Eaton noted he would resume his remarks at the end of t he meeting.   
 
Justin Smith, 225 Sunset Lane - Concerning the ANR Plan for 205 Sunset Lane, stated that trees were being cut and coming 
down onto his property.  Consequently he has received some damage to his property.   
 
M. Allison responded that the Board  reviews an ANR Plan for lot size and frontage.  The Board does not have jurisdiction over 
single family home construction.  A. Burney added that this is probably a civil matter between the property owners.  P. Bertram 
noted that she has issues with the ANR Plan for 205 Sunset Lane, stating a driveway has already been installed.   
 
ANR Plan: 205 Sunset Lane -   K. Chenis recused himself.  The property owner was represented by Neil Gorman, David E. 
Ross Associates.  The lots meet the criteria for land area an d access.  This Plan was presented at a Board meeting held three 
weeks ago.  At that meeting the Board was unwilling to endorse the ANR Plan unless it could show practicable access through 
the frontage.  A Conceptual Driveway Design presented at this meeti ng shows access through a driveway off Sunset Lane for 
Lot 2A.  A. Burney is waiting for the Building Commissioner and Fire Chief to review th e Conceptual Driveway Design.  Tonight’s 
appointment is only an approval of the ANR Plan ; the driveway would be at  a future Board meeting.  N. Gorman was not aware 
of the issue with J. Smith, 225 S unset Lane.  To access Lot 2A for soil testing with the Board of Health Agent, an access road 
was created off Robbs Hill Road.  Some trees had to be taken down.  The property lines were marked in advance.  P. Bertram 
made Motion to approve the ANR Plan with the understanding that it does not reflect the driveway for either lot, T. Cole 
Seconded, all aye. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
190 Electric Avenue (cont’d) - see separate minutes   K. Chenis made Motion to grant the Special Permit and Site Plan 
Approval with standard solar field Conditions and the additional Conditions of, 1) two for one tree replacement, 2) tree 
plantings to be guaranteed for a minimum of two growing seasons, 3) plan tings to be included on the Planting As-Built 
Plan, and 4) plantings will consist of three different species of evergreens; P. Bertram Seconded; all aye.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 03.04.19 
Page 2 
 
May 2019 Town Meeting Warrant Article - see separate minutes.  K. Chenis made Motion to recommend approval to town 
meeting of the bylaw with edits, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Edits are r emoving “collisions between vehicles, bicyclists, 
and pedestrians”, removing “and of an y business dealing in marijuana , marijuana products, an d/or marijuana accessories”, 
striking a redundant “the”, and accept Town Counsel and Building Commissioner edits.  K. Chenis made Motion to 
recommend approval to town meeting of the remaining six articles with the renumbering edit for prohibition, P. Bertram 
Seconded.  Discussion:  P. Bertram was of the opinion that if the warrant states “Planning Board recommends approval”, 
citizens will have the mistaken belief that the Board is recommending all articles be approved, whereas, the Board is only 
recommending approval for the articles to be voted on the ballot .  M. Allison noted that the Board can make it clear at town 
meeting that it is not advocating either for or against each article.  T. Cole noted that it will not make it to the ballot if it doesn’t get 
passed.  A. Burney suggested the Board take its vote and he will notify the Select Board that the Planning Board does not want a 
recommendation put in the warrant.  Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, nay; T. Cole, aye; K. Chenis, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote 
passed 3-1.   
 
400 Electric Avenue- see separate minutes.  K. Chenis made motion to approve the special permit and site plan approval 
with standard conditions as discussed, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Additional Conditions shall be that a button activated 
actuator valve shall be installed, and that the catch basins shall be cleaned semi -annually and reports of same provided to the 
Planning Board and Board of Health. 
 
K. Chenis made Motion to table remaining agenda items to  the March 25 th Board meeting, P. Bertra m Seconded . 
Discussion: T. Cole noted that G. Eaton had sat through the entire Board meeting waiting for an opportunity to speak.  K. Chenis 
amended his Motion to move all remaining agenda items to March 25 th with the exception of closing public comment, P . 
Bertram Seconded, all aye.  P. Bertram made Motion to extend the meeting beyond 10:30 p.m., T. Cole Seconded, all 
aye.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Glen Eaton, MRPC -  T. Cole noted that when he became the Board representative to MRPC, through 
meeting attendance he became aware of recordkeeping issues.  He did not want the Board to pursue a grant if there were going 
to be problems.  He did go on to note that MRPC is working through those issues.  P. Bertram noted at a previously Board 
meeting that those were seriou s allegations made by T. Cole .  T. Cole suggested to G. Eaton that he come before the Board to 
air these issues.  P. Bertram noted she was advocating for a walkability study and ha d since found out that is being pursued by 
the Select Board.  G. Eaton noted last spring, due to a funding decline, staff had to be laid off .  Also, procedures that are in place 
were being poorly implemented.  If the Board wan ts any DLTA information from other communities he w ill be glad to supply that 
information.  MRPC does an average of ten DLTA projects yearly.   
 
All remaining agenda items tabled to March 25, 2019. 
 
Building Re-Use- 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
02/11/19, 190 Electric Avenue 
02/11/19, 380-400 Electric Avenue 
02/11/19, 400 Electric Avenue 
02/11/19, 151-181 Leominster Shirley Road 
02/11/19 
02/25/19, 190 Electric Avenue 
02/25/19, 380-400 Electric Avenue 
02/25/19 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee  
Storm Water Task Force 
Agricultural Commission  
MJTC 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 03.04.19 
Page 3 
 
MRPC   
Charter Review Committee  
Green Community Task Force  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
380-400 Electric Avenue 
District Local Technical Assistance (DLTA) 
March 11, Town Caucus 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
March 25 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:  
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 5.6., Cluster Development 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems   
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas 
Earth Removal Permitting 
Economic Development 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan  
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:    
 
ADJOURNMENT:   T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 10:46 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting:  ANR Plan, 205 Sunset Lane 
 
 