===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Marisa Thompson, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Vacancy, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
December 9, 2019 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Marisa Thompson 
 
ANR PLAN:  322 Flat Hill Road - M. Allison made it known that his mother lives across the street f rom the subject address and 
that the applicant is also his colleague.  He went on to note that he will no t derive any financial gain from this land division.  The 
Plan was presented by John Boardman P.E., Places Associates, Inc.  The house is located at the front of a long and narrow 
piece of property.  This Plan creates two backland lots behind the original front lot.  The lots have sufficient frontage and area.  
As the property is registered 61B, Recreation land , it will need to go through the Right of First Refusal process  if taken out of 
Chapter.  The Chapter Land process does not prevent an ANR Plan from being endorsed by the Board.  P. Bertram requested 
that a memo randum be provided to the Select Board, Conservation Commission, and Open Space Ad Hoc Committee notifying 
them of a potential Chapter Land withdrawal.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR  Plan as submitted for 322 Flat 
Hill Road, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  P. Bertram made Motion that land use boards be notified of the potential 
withdrawal from Chapter, T. Cole, Seconded, all aye.   
 
335 CHASE ROAD, Proposed Common Drive - At its November 25th meeting, the Board requested information regarding the 
layout and grading of the proposed common drive indicated on the ANR Plan.  Plan presented by David LeRoy, Hannigan 
Engineering.  The drive would be constructed off Northfield Road and would be alm ost 100 feet long.  There is a 25 foot leveling 
area at 2% along Northfield Road.  The drive will steepen to a grade not to exceed 9%.  The drive does not straddle the lot line.  
It was noted that the location of the proposed shared driveway will preserve the existing fieldstone wall and eliminate an 
additional wetland crossing on a  scenic road.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the proposed common drive at 335 
Chase Road with the stipulation that the field stone wall be retained, T. Cole Seconded, al l aye.  T. Cole was concerned 
that the replication areas could possibly be on Town -owned land.  If so, the applicant w ill probably need permission  from the 
Town and an easement  to replicate the wetlands.  The project still needs to go before the Conservation Commission and the 
Board of Health.   
 
335 CHASE ROAD, ANR Plan- P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 335 Chase Road, T. Cole Seconded, 
all aye. 
 
ROBBS HILL ROAD & SUNSET LANE:  Proposed Common Drive - Neil Gorman, David Ross Associates noted this previously 
came before the Board in spring 2019.  At that time it was withdrawn without prejudice for the applicant to gather more 
information and for the presence of a  full Board.  Due to the absence of a member this evening  and a member vacancy , N. 
Gorman is requesting to reschedule to the next meeting.  Board was in agreement.  Application will be presented at the January 
13th Board meeting.   
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 12.09.19 
Page 2 
 
EMERALD PLACE AT LAKE W HALOM: Surety Release -  Continued from the last Board meeting as Board members wanted 
to ensure all items on the punch list had been completed ; in particular the sidewalks .  In reviewing the files, A. Burney noted 
there had originally been conflict between  the developer and the Board as to the purpose of the Bond.  When the project was 
approved, the improv ements along the waterfront o n Town property and the roadway  were included in the project.  There were  
Bond releases up to August 2014.  Any final issues were for final pavement and berm repair.  The DPW Di rector has no issues 
with the development and paving was completed to his satisfaction.  Throughout construction there was no flagging of the interior 
sidewalks as an issue.  P. Bertram made Motion to release the surety for Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, T. Cole 
Seconded, all aye. 
 
SOLAR BYLAW:  A draft survey was available for member input.  Comments had been submitted by absent member.  Board 
members questioned #6 regarding fe ncing.  There was also dis cussion on #9 as to whether solar parking canopi es should be 
allowed by-right.  A question will be added for public input on the extent of the vegetated buffer, e.g., 50 feet, 100 feet?  Edits will 
be made to the Survey and discussion will continue at the January 13th Board meeting.. 
 
MASTER PLAN:   Some Board members were of the opinion that the Planning Board should be included in Select Board 
discussions surrounding the town -owned buildings.  Board members requested A. Burney rea ch out to both the Town Manager 
and the Select Board regarding same.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
11.25.19- Tabled for discussion on January 13th.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting 
Storm Water Task Force-    no meeting 
Agricultural Commission-   no meeting 
TCP Building Design Committee-   Committee approved RFQ (request for quotes).   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  meeting December 10th.   
Land Acquisition Committee- no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
MJTC Board Representative: Position vacant 
MRPC Board Representative: Position vacant 
Open Space Residential Design Bylaw:  The State model  was available for  Board member  perusal.  The State model gives 
more discretion for limiting the size of a development.  There was discussion of including Low Impact Development; A. Burney 
noted that could be incorporated into the Subdivision of Land Rules and Regulations.    
Tree Clearing Bylaw:  M. Allison noted Ayer has a land disturbance bylaw ; tree clearing could be added t o this.  T. Cole felt 
open space and conservation goals could better be achieved through open space and development.   
Population Projection: 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
January 13- Robbs Hill Road and Sunset Lane, proposed common drive 
January 27- 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 12.09.19 
Page 3 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  in process 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-  on hold 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan- in process 
 
ADJOURNMENT:    
P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 8:30 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
335 Chase Road 
    ANR Plan 
    Common Driveway Plan 
322 Flat Hill Road, ANR Plan 
Minutes 11.25.19 
Solar Survey, DRAFT 
Open Space Residential Design Bylaw, State Model 