===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INCORONE
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
April 22, 2019
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:30 PM
Present: Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney
Absent: Kenneth Chenis
ANR PLANS:
50 Page Street- Property owner Jeff Stone was represented by David King, REMAX. P. Bertram made Motion to approve the
ANR Plan, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.
53 Prospect Street- Property owner was represented by Steve Ballard, Whitman and Bingham. Plan shows four lots; two with
frontage on Prospect Street and two on Cross Street. The existing lot on Prospect Street is on municipal sewer; a lot has been
created around that and then two additional lots. Lot 7 will need a septic design, but Lots 8 and 9 are within the sewer service
area. The Assessor's review indicates that the newly created lots 7, 8, and 9 are Chapter Land and would require a right-of-first-
refusal prior to sale. T. Cole made Motion to approve the ANR Plan, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.
APPOINTMENT: UNITIL, Tree Work Discussion- UNITIL was represented by John DiNapoli, Municipal & Community Services
Manager and Sara Sankowich, System Arborist. UNITIL would like to implement a Storm Resiliency Program in town to address
circuit reliability issues. The major outage factor in town seems to be tree-related. The program would involve removing over-
hanging branches and completely removing risky trees that could potentially come down during a storm. Two of the scenic roads
in town, Lancaster Avenue and Leominster Road would be involved. P. Bertram asked how the town would know what trees are
being fully removed on the two involved scenic roads. UNITIL would do a full review of the trees and assess them for defects
and the probabilty that they would fall and affect the lines. UNITIL would then talk to the affected property owners to inquire
about possible removal. Pending owner consent, trees would then be tagged for removal. Once the trees are tagged, a detailed
package would be prepared for the town showing which trees would be removed and which would be trimmed. P. Bertram was
agreeable to UNITIL proceeding with the planning process, but then returning to the Board once it determined which trees would
be removed. UNITIL will coordinate with A. Burney to provide a map to the Board indicating locations of impacted trees and a
proposed site walk.
Steve Weaver, 288 Holman Street- Voiced concern with possible runoff into town roads from extensive tree removal.
PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Zoning Warrant Articles- See separate minutes.
Article 38 - P. Bertram made Motion to recommend approval of article at town meeting, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.
Article 40 - P. Bertram made Motion to continue the hearing on April 29th, T. Cole Seconded, discussion-T. Cole felt that
the Board did not have answers for the questions posed at this hearing. The Board also needs to look at the unintended
consequences of allowing these types of uses in residential zoning. P. Bertram has two questions for Town Counsel; 1) what
constitutes an allowable use on private property; is it the use of public access, and 2) the potential impact on zoning with the
passage of this article. Vote taken, all aye.
===PAGE 2===
Building Re-Use- P. Bertram noted that the Board of Selectmen had met with various committees/board for discussions on
building re-use. She felt the Planning Board should have been afforded a chance to weigh in on those discussions as building
re-use is tied to planning. P. Bertram made a Motion that a memorandum be sent to the Board of Selectmen noting same. T.
Cole noted this subject will probably come up after town meeting.
Economic Development Committee- The Select Board, at its April gt meeting, unanimously voted to table the formation of an
economic development committee. M. Allison is proposing that the Planning Board move forward with the formation of same. P.
sertram suggested the Board look at the previous work done by MRPC In 2014 and then decide how to move forward. A.
Burney noted the DLTA work of a business-town partnership. T. Cole stressed that if the Planning Board forms an economic
development committee, it will be important to have the support of other boards/committees.
MINUTES APPROVAL: 04/08/19- Unable to approve due to lack of quorum.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Capital Planning Committee- no report
Storm Water Task Force- Met with consultants to discuss submission of contract for next year. There has been discussion of a
STOPMLATEr - sewer utility enterprise fund.
Agricultural Commission- The Farmers' Market will be co-managed with two managers.
MJTC- New TIP available on web.
MRPC- no report
Charter Review Committee- Ready for presentation to Town Meeting.
Green Community Task Force- no report
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report
Land Acquisition Committee- Meeting April 24th.
DIRECTOR'S ITEMS:
Economic Development Committee, Update- see above
Annual Town Meeting, Article Update- see above
2019 Traffic Counts- MRC is preparing for the 2019 traffic count season and is currently on Year 2. There was discussion of
requesting a traffic count on Howard Street.
Earth Removal Permitting- in process
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 5.6.- see above
MEETING SCHEDULE:
April 29- Hearing for Aro Estates and continuation of citizen petition Article 40. K. Chenis not available.
May 4- Board meeting at 8:45 AM for any final discussion of zoning articles. Town Meeting, 9 AM, LMHS.
May 13- Hearing (continuation) for Powell Stone and Gravel.
ONGOING ITEMS:
Lunenburg Code, Section 250-4.15., Solar Energy Systems Will proceed once full Board is in place.
Lunenburg Code, Section 250-6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas- Will proceed once full Board is in place.
Economic Development- see above discussion
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan- see above discussion
ADJOURNMENT: T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. Adjourned 9:25 PM.
Documents used at meeting:
50 Page Street ANR Plan
53 Prospect Street ANR Plan
MRPC 2019 Traffic Counts
