===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
 
Minutes 
January 22, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:37 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Kenneth Chenis, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Tanner Cole 
 
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA:  Draft Bylaw - A. Burney had an opportunity to speak with some members of the Cannabis 
Control Commission (CCC) at this past week’s MMA Annual Meeting.  He asked for their input concerning individuals coming 
into a co-op after it has been licensed.  Feedback to him was that it would require a change of license being filed with the CCC.  
K. Chenis inquired if the size of a cultivation c hanges, does that also require a new license.  There was discussion of holding the 
hearing for the warrant article at the Board’s 02/25/19 meeting.    
 
The Board reviewed Draft 1.  Definitions will be added into the text.  A. Burney noted that retail shops for Marijuana Accessories, 
e.g., rolling papers, are not included in the Bylaw as th ey are not governed by the Town .  Craft marijuana co -ops shall require 
individual permits for each location.  P. Bertram wanted more detailed Submittal Requirements.  The Operation and Management 
Plan will be edited to include waste requirements.  There was d iscussion surrounding odor and limiting odor distance from 
building.  Lengthy discussion ensued upon P. Bertram’s voicing her concern with the extensive amount of area that would be 
unavailable if  no marijuana establishment can be located with in 500 feet of public/private schools for K through 12, daycare 
providers, municipal recreation facilities and houses of worship and funeral homes.  Boar d consensus was to define mu nicipal 
recreation facilities as active recreation facilities  and no distance restriction for conservation.  F amily childcare providers  – 250 
feet, childcare facilities licensed by the Commonwealth – 500 feet, and houses of wors hip and funeral homes – 250 feet.  K. 
Chenis questioned why only ½ of the plants could be flowering.  A. Burney responded it is due to the pungent odor from the 
flowers.  Consensus was to delete 4.15.G , 4.15.H and 4.15.I as that information is already covered in the M.G.L. and CCC 
regulations.  There was discussion  on whether the setback  should be 500 or 250 feet from a marijuana retail structure  to a 
residential structure or zoning district.   
 
Based on this evening’s workshop, A. Burney will update the draft Bylaw and discussion will continue at the Board’s January 28 th 
meeting. 
 
MRPC: DLTA Population Study- D. Prokowiew made Motion to table to 01/28/19, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  
 
MASTER PLAN: Capital Planning Article- D. Prokowiew made Motion to table to 01/28/19, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. 
 
D. Prokowiew made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  9:30 PM 
Documents used at meeting: 
Draft 1 – Non-Medical Marijuana 