===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Vacant, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
August 26, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Gregory Bittner 
 
ANR Plan: 190 Electric Avenue - Plan presented by Daniel Ruiz, Capital Group Properties.  The land division will create two 
new lots; one consisting of 6.0± acres and one of 1.7± acres.  The remaining property of 33.3± a cres contains a solar field.  
There were Board concerns as to the use of the non -buildable lot of 6.0 acres.  The Board cannot endorse a land -locked non-
buildable lot.  A. Burney was aware, through conversations with D. Ruiz, that it was to be conveyed to an abutter to enlarge their 
lot, and such should be noted on the Plan.  The anticipated purchaser of the 6.0 acres will be connecting it to Map 74, Lot 27.  A 
revised Plan will be presented at the September 9 th meeting for endorsement.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  S tone Farm- Subdivision Surety- see separate minutes.  P. Bertram made Motion to take the $27,000 
Surety Bond for Stone Farm Estates to complete work to bring the Subdivision into compliance with the Plans, T. Cole 
Seconded.  A. Burney requested the Motion be amended to include a date of October 14, 2019 to allow Lisciotti Development 
Corporation 45 days to complete the work.  P. Bertram amended her Motion to move forward to claim the Bond on October 
14, 2019 in the event the work is not completed by that date, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.    
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE - Draft Committee Charge was viewed by the Board, 
but no vote taken as the Board would like to wait for input from G. Bittner .  Discussion will continue at the Board’s Se ptember 9th 
meeting.   
 
SOLAR BYLAW - P. Bertram asked what were the Board’s objectives with the Solar Bylaw.  The current Bylaw allows for 
ground-mounted systems up to 10 k W.  Most homes need a system larger than 10 k W, which then places them into the larg e-
scale category.  A minimum of 20 acres is required to install a large -scale ground mount.  Historically, there has been concern 
with the location of large MW solar farms within a residential area.  There ha ve also b een past discussion s regarding better 
defined buffer zones.  Further discussion tabled due to G. Bittner’s absence.   
 
ANR Plan, 190 Electric Avenue - D. Ruiz conferred with his attorney and was informed that the land conveyance doesn’t need 
to be on the ANR Plan  for Board endorsement .  The Board disagreed and requested that the lot be relabeled as a parcel being 
conveyed to/combined with another specified parcel.  A Board meeting will be posted for Thursday August 29th, 6:00 PM for the 
ANR Plan.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
08.12.19- T. Cole made Motion to approve, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. 
08.12.19, UNITIL- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 08.26.19 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting 
Storm Water Task Force -    Met with consult ants.  Task Force received a new proposal with revised requirements. Annual 
report due by the end of September.  
Agricultural Commission-   Discussion of the Farmers’ Market.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Working on additional information requested by the State.   
Land Acquisition Committee-  no report 
Green Community Task Force-  no report 
MRPC- no report 
MJTC-    no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Building Committee:  The Board of Selectmen has formed a building committee for the design of town offices, schoo l use 
space, and community space at TC Passios.  Committee composition will include one member from the Planning Board.  The 
Board chose to wait until the September 9th meeting in the event G. Bittner has interest in serving on the Committee.   
 
Board Vacancy: Vacancy has been advertised in the Lunenburg Ledger.  T. Cole would like an opportunity for the Board to 
interview any prospective candidate (s) prior to the joint meeting  with the Board of Selectmen.  This would allow for the Planning 
Board to make a recommendation to the Board of Selectmen.  
 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  September 23rd Board discussion  
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas- on hold 
 
Form H Covenants for Aro Estates 1 – 9 were available for Board signature.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
September 9-  
Earth Removal- continued discussion 
Economic Development/Economic Development Committee- continued discussion 
September 23-  
Solar Bylaw- continued discussion 
UNITIL Hearing 
September 24- UNITIL Hearing (joint with Board of Selectmen) 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-   
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-   
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan- 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded.  Adjourned 8:30 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 
    08/12/19 
    08/12/19, UNITIL Hearing 
ANR Plan 190 Electric Avenue 
DRAFT Charge for Economic Development Committee 