===PAGE 1===
 
 
 TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Marisa Thompson, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Vacancy, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
November 25, 2019 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:32 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram (arrived 6:36 pm), Marisa Thompson, Adam R. Burney 
 
ANR PLANS:   335 Chase Road -  The applicant was represented by Larry Sabean, Hannigan Engineering.  Three lots are 
proposed.  A common driveway off Northfield Road through Lot 2 is proposed t o provide access to Lot 3.  A single crossing 
would minimize impact on the wetlands.  All three lots have requisite frontage, area, and upland.  A. Burney noted as the 
common driveway does not split the property lines, two approvals would be required ; one from the Planning Board and one f rom 
the Building Commissioner.  P. Bertram voiced concern that by endorsing the ANR Plan, the Board is also approving the location 
of the common driveway.  L. Sabean asked if the Plan should be resubmitted with the d riveway easements eliminated.  After 
ANR endorsement the applicant could submit a common driveway plan.  L. Sabean inquired to the applicant’s recourse if the 
driveway plan is not endorsed.  A driveway plan and application will be submitted for the December 9 th Board meeting, at which 
time the ANR Plan will also be included for Board endorsement.   
 
EMERALD PLACE AT LAKE WHALOM: Surety Release - Approximately $40,000 is still being held in surety for this completed 
project.  The Board wanted to ensure everything on  the punch list had been completed prior to fund release.  Discussion will 
continue at the Board’s December 9th meeting.   
 
STONE FARM: Surety Write Down -All punch list items have been completed by the developer.  The peer reviewer suggested 
the Board reta in $1,800 in the event the seed mixture doesn’t take in the spring.  P. Bertram made Motion to release the 
remaining surety amount, less the $1,800, M. Thompson Seconded, all aye. 
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE :  The Lunenburg Business Association is plea sed to hear that such a Committee 
has been formed.  Appointees are needed from the Select Board, Agricu ltural Commission and Conservation Commission.  A. 
Burney has received a Talent Bank form for an at-large position.   
 
SOLAR BYLAW:  Board members were p rovided with a compilation of buffer requirements in various communities within the 
Commonwealth.  A. Burney presented a draft standard for buffer zones.  Discussion was held regarding screening and buffer 
zones, along with discussion regarding pollinator species.  Town Counsel noted to A. Burney that it can be required in the bylaw, 
but if the cost is unreasonable to the applicant, it could be challenged under Ch. 40A, Section 3.   A. Burney noted that a 
pollinator list could be provided to applicants with the stipulation that they choose from that list.  A possible option could be that if 
an applicant creates a pollinator habitat, either the buffer or the setback requirement could be reduced by a certain percentage.  
M. Allison responded that if the buffer is reduced, then the specific pollinator needs to be an appropriate screening.  Some Board 
members noted they would like public input prior to crafting the draft bylaw.  A. Burney noted it will be easier for him to write a 
new bylaw instead of editing the current one and suggested having a first draft in place for public input.  P. Bertram suggested a 
survey for public input.  A. Burney will prepare a draft survey for Board review.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 11.25.19 
Page 2 
 
MASTER PLAN:    The Board was in possession of R FPs (Request for Proposal) from  various communities within the 
Commonwealth.  At the last Board meeting, due to funding, members were asked to prioritize the Elements they wanted to work 
on.  M. Thompson- Land Use, Community Facilities and Services, Housin g, Circulation.  P. Bertram- Community Facilities and 
Services, Land Use, Housing; she noted some communities included a chapter on Sustainability, which she thought was a good 
idea; if not, her fourth would be Natural and Cultural Resource s.  Her fifth would be Circulation.  A. Burney felt that Sustainability 
could be its own chapter or the RFP could note Sustainability be incorporated into each Element.   T. Cole- Community Facilities 
and Services, Open Space, Land Use, and Housing.  M. Allison - Community Facilities and Services, Open Space and 
Recreation and Natural and Cultural, and Circulation.  P. Bertram inquired if population density could be incorporated into the 
RFP.  Community Facilities and Services and Land Use appear to be the top priority Elem ents in addition to some population 
projections.   
 
John Whalen, 526 West Townsend Road- Objected to the Board’s voicing that the setbacks in the Solar Bylaw were excessive.  
He said they had been well thought out  when that Bylaw had been crafted.   The setbacks were i n line with other towns in the 
Commonwealth.  These are reasonable regulations to protect residents.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
10.07.19- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
10.28.19- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- The Committee has met with the Fire, Police and School Departments. 
Storm Water Task Force-    Discussed Year 2 requirements.   
Agricultural Commission-   Discussed warrant articles for Town Meeting 2020 and also Farmers’ Market for 2020.   
TCP Building Design Committee- Board representative unable to attend last meeting.  Next meeting scheduled for December 
4th at which time the Committee will start the RFP process.     
MRPC- no report.  Representative position vacant.    
MJTC-  no report.  Representative position vacant. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   no meeting.  Representative position vacant. 
Land Acquisition Committee-  no report.  Representative position vacant. 
Green Community Task Force-  no report.  Liaison position vacant. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Board Vacancy and Reorganization: 
Board Clerk-  T. Cole made Motion to nominate Marisa Thompson as the Board Clerk, P. Bertr am Seconded, all aye.   
Open Space Land Ad Hoc/Land Acquisition Committee- P. Bertram is currently the At-Large for the Open Space Committee.  
M. Thompson made Motion for P. Bertram to res ign the At Large position and to become the Board representative, T. 
Cole Seconded, all aye.   
Green Communities Task Force - Board r epresentative is not a Task Force member, rather a liaison position.  Board 
consensus was to no longer have a liaison. 
Economic Development Committee:  A Board member needs to be appointed annually.  P. Bertram expressed interest 
contingent on the Committee’s meeting schedule.  M. Allison made Motion to nominate Paula Bertram to the Committee, M. 
Thompson Seconded, all aye.   
MJTC, Board Representative-  Tabled. 
 
Special Town Meeting:   The Excavation and Earth Removal General Bylaw did not pass at STM.  M. Allison would like the 
current bylaw, along with the proposed revised bylaw, available to the public for continued Board discussion.   
Open Space Residential Design Bylaw:  A. Burney will provide the Board with the State model.  The intent is to move people 
away from conventional residential development into an open space model.   
Tree Clearing Bylaw: See above Solar Bylaw discussion. 
Population Projection: See above Master Plan discussion. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 11.25.19 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
December 9 
December 23- No meeting will be held this date. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  in process 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-  on hold 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan- in process 
 
ADJOURNMENT:    
T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 8:50 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan 335 Chase Road 
Minutes 10.07.19, 10.23.19 
Solar Energy System Bylaw 
Sample Master Plan RFPs 