===PAGE 1===
 
 
 TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marisa Thompson, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
October 28, 2019 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Marisa Thompson, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Gregory Bittner 
 
ANR PLANS: 
59 & 71 Wildwood Road - The Applicant was represent ed by Frank Preston, Whitman & Bingham Associates.  The house at 59 
Wildwood Road is encroaching onto the property at 71 Wildwood Road.  As the current owner of 71 Wildwood Rd is selling her 
property, Parcel A of 4617 Sq. Ft. +/- is being created for the owner of 59 Wildwood Road to purchase to solve the encroachment 
problem.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 71 Wildwood Road, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.    
 
99, 103 & 109 Youngs Road -  The Applicant was represented by Larry Sabean, Hannigan Engineering.  Two of the existing 
three lots will be altered.  Four lots were created by an ANR Plan endorsed by t he Board in 2016.  Lot 4 has already been sold.  
This ANR Plan alters the property lines to better accommodate septic systems.  T. Cole made Motion to approve the ANR 
Plan for 99, 103 & 109 Youngs Road, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.   
 
LAND ACQUISITION: Sa liba Property, Board Recommendation -  The Land Acquisition Committee would like support from 
the Board for the purchase of the property, consisting of 318 acres, as placed on the Special Town Meeting Warrant.  The Town 
has received both grants sought for t he purchase ; the Town’s cost will not exceed $282,000.  The land w ill be for both 
recreational use and nature preservation.  T. Cole opined that the Board would be stepping outside its jurisdiction to offer an 
opinion on the purchase of the land.  P. Bertr am disagreed, noting that planning for the use/building within Town is contained 
within the Master Plan.  She went on to note that there is a Planning Board member that sits on the Land Acquisition Committe e.  
P. Bertram made Motion that if asked, the Boar d voices its support for this land acquisition at Town Meeting, M. 
Thompson Seconded, Discussion: A. Burney asked for clarification; is the Motion strictly for support of the acquisition?  Is P. 
Bertram looking for a letter of support or is it sufficient f or the Board to stand up at Town Meeting and voice its support?  P. 
Bertram responded either of those options was agreeable.  M. Thompson, aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, nay; M. Allison, aye.  
Vote passed 3-1.     
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  COMMITTEE:  A final draft was presented to Board members.  P. 
Bertram made Motion that the Board adopt the Charge of the Lunenburg Economic Development Committee as drafted, 
M. Thompson Seconded, all aye.  Members-at-Large will need to fill out Talent Bank forms.  The Conservation Commission, 
Open Space Committee, Select Board, and Agricultural Commission will be notified that the Charge was accepted and they will 
need to appoint representatives.  A. Burney will reach out to the Lunenburg Business Associat ion as a Lunenburg business 
owner also needs to be appointed to the Committee.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 10.28.19 
Page 2 
 
SOLAR BYLAW:  A. Burney provided the Board with a summary of restrictions in use by other communities as well as a chart 
specifying other limits  such as size, acreage, and power.  He is researching as to whether solar can be restricted in residential 
zones.  There was discussion regarding the type of plant material that could be used within the array itself to minimize the 
amount of mowing  necessary.  A. Burney is awaiting response from UNITIL as to connection requirements.  T. Cole remarked 
that if the Board is looking at solar from a planning impact, being allowable only in industrial zoning may not be in the best 
interest of the Lunenburg for revenue  impact, e.g., having a warehouse on an industrial parcel would be more financial 
advantageous.  Deforestation, screening, and system size are  specific concerns of the Board.  Discussion will continue at the 
next Board meeting.   
 
MASTER PLAN:  Board members were in possession of the 2002 Master Plan.  P. Bertram noted that the state conditionally 
approved the updated Open Space and Recreation Plan (OSRP).  Based on the OSRP, Element V, Open Space and 
Recreation, Natural and Cultural, is completed.  Information in the  Housing Production Plan could be used towards Element III, 
Housing.  A. Burney stressed Elements VI and VII, Community Facilities and Service, and Circulation, respectively, should be 
done by an outside consultant.  There is currently $50,000 a vailable for master planning through Capital Planning; updating each 
Element will cost $12,500 +/ -.  The need was stressed for public visioning sessions.  Board members requested copies of the 
Vertex and Tappe buildings’ studies.  Prior to the next Board m eeting, members will individually prioritize the Elements, provide 
that information to A. Burney, who will summarize for the next meeting.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
10.07.19- Tabled due to agenda mis-print. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- Will meet on Tuesdays in November.   
Storm Water Task Force-    Public outreach was discussed at the last meeting.  
Agricultural Commission -   Farmers’ Market concluded for the season with participation of over 30 vendors.  Fees collected 
from the vendors will be used in some manner to promote agriculture in Lunenburg.   
TCP Building Design Committee- Initial meeting held and Committee organized.  Current Committee goal is to get a R equest 
For Proposal.  A Town Meeting vote authorized $265,000 for upgrading of the building into Town offices.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -   Committee members working on pulling together information requested by the state for final 
approval of the Plan.  250 Howard Street is being taken out of Chapter; the Committee will view the s ite to see if it has interest in 
acquisition by Lunenburg.  
Land Acquisition Committee-  no report 
Green Community Task Force-  no report 
MRPC- no report 
MJTC-  No report; no Board representative at this time.  Due to scheduling, P. Bertram, who is the rep resentative to MRPC, 
expressed interest in taking on MJTC and stepping down from MRPC.  No action taken at this time. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Butterfly Lane, Update- Will be on the Warrant for November Special Town Meeting for road acceptance.   
Stone Farm, Update-   Outstanding items have been completed by the developer.  A Board vote for final Bond release will take 
place at the Board’s November meeting, pending final review from Graves Engineering, Inc.  
MJTC, Board Representative-  on hold 
Special Town Meeting/Board Warrant Article-  Select Board voted to support Earth Removal Bylaw.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
November 12-  Special Town Meeting, 7:00 PM, MS-HS preceded by 6:30 PM Board meeting 
November 25- Continued discussion on Master Plan and Solar Bylaw. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  in process 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-  on hold 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan- in process 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Minutes 10.28.19 
Page 3 
 
BOARD COMMENTS:   P. Bertram noted it was 361 Massachusetts Avenue and not 250 Howard Street (under Open Space 
Committee).  The property owner reached out to the Committee to see if there was interest in the Town purchasing the property.   
The Committee Chair will go view the site.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 9:00 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan 59 & 71 Wildwood Road 
ANR Plan 99, 103, & 109 Youngs Road 
Minutes 10.07.19 
DRAFT Charge for Economic Development Committee 
Solar Energy System Bylaw 
Master Plan 