===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
BrightFarms, 361 Massachusetts Avenue 
December 14, 2020 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, La nd Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  7:43 PM 
 
The Hearing continuation, via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review appl ications for site plan approval and stormwater 
management permit under Ch. 250, Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for 
construction of a greenhouse for commercial production of salad greens, associated parking an d roadway at 361 Massachusetts 
Avenue (Map 057, Parcel 0031), Lunenburg, MA .  Owner was 361 Mass Avenue LLC, 133 Leominster Shirley Road, Lunenburg, 
MA.  Applicant was MA Greenhouse LLC, 1 Bridge Street, Suite 2-004, Irvington, NY.     
 
Representing Bright Farms LLC (hereinafter BF) were Sean O’Neill and Chi Man .  Reviewing engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves 
Engineering Inc. (hereinafter GEI) noted a lot of progress had been made over the previous week.  Some minor plan revisions 
needed to be made for the plans and hydrology calculations to be consistent with one another ; previously there was too much 
inconsistency.  The plans also needed to be clear enough for a contractor to construct the outlets of Infiltration basin #1 due to 
elevation; that was addressed.   
 
Board members reviewed the draft Decision.  In addition to the Conditions already contained in the draft, the following would  be 
added: 
 Requirement for a third-party monitor. 
 Letter from GEI noting that all outstanding requirements had been met. 
 Requirement for at least one-foot of freeboard from the 100-year storm. 
 Pope Road would NOT be used for a construction entrance. 
 
The Board set construction hours of 7  AM – 5 PM, Monday through Friday, 8  AM – 4 PM on Saturday.  No construction allowed 
on Sundays and federal or state holidays. 
 
Two possibilities were considered for the construction entrance.  BF had a pending easement modification with Brixmor Propert y 
Group, 301 Massachusetts Avenue,  as the current easement did not allow for construction traffic.  Another possibility would be 
the driveway for the used car lot on 2A as the driveway was owned by Steve Powell.   
 
As meetings were being held virtually, the Decision could be executed through DocuSign.   
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
P. Bertram made Motion to clos e the Hearing for 361  Massachusetts Avenue for site plan approval and stormwater 
permit, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -
0.   
 
Hearing closed 8:30 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
GEI Review Letter dated 12.14.2020 
Draft Decision 
 