===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Member    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Clerk - Vacant   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member - Vacant 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
190 Electric Avenue 
June 8, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:43 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Lan d Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present.   
 
A. Burney prefaced the Hearing with the following reading.  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is bein g recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conducted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of He alth, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.  I n 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage a llows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please  note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see y ou 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss a  stormwater management special permit under Ch. 204 of the Code of the Town of 
Lunenburg for a 2.4 MW photovoltaic system located at 190 Electric Avenue , (Map 077, Parcel 0014), Lunenbu rg, MA.  
Applicant- Borrego Solar Systems, Inc. 55 Technology Drive Suite 102, Lowell, MA.  Property owner - Lunenburg Solar LLC, 259 
Turnpike Road Suite 100, Southborough, MA.    
 
The applicant was represented by Brandon Smith, Borrego Solar Systems, Inc.  The project was permitted by the Board in 2019.  
They hope to pull a building permit this year, hence the st ormwater permit application.  The stormwater permit application was 
reviewed by Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI)  in letter dated June 3, 2020 .  Borrego responded to that review  in letter dated June 
8, 2020 received in the Planning Office after the close of business. 
 
P. Bertram inquired of any changes to stormwater since the Board’s approval in March 2019.  Borrego noted slight changes had 
been made upd ating calculations based on field observations.  P. Bertram also inquired what type of stormwater structure this 
would be classified as under the Stormwater Handbook.  Borrego responded a dry detention basin; within 72 hours of a storm  
===PAGE 2===
 
190 Electric Avenue, Borrego Solar 
Minutes 06.08.2020 
Page 2 
 
event the basin is  supposed to be dry.   The dry detention basin is to the south with a swale running to the north.  The outlet 
structure is a culvert.  Since the 2019 approval Borrego has done more tree surveyin g.  As a result, some of the areas of wooded 
cover have been fine-tuned.  Consequently the basin has been slightly enlarged and is now approximately 35 X 55 square feet.   
 
There is a large rip rap area to slow down the flow.  Post construction/ post stabilization is a grass field.  When it rains, the rain 
will be diverted to the basin.  The goal is to ensure there is not a large quantity of water coming off the site.  The basin will catch 
some of the water to cut down the peak flow.   
 
During construction, washing and refueling of vehicles w ould take place; most likely in the turnaround area on the east side of 
the site.  P. Bertram had concerns with this due to the limited decontamination of stormwater in this plan.  Borrego responded 
this would take place in an upland area and be surrounded by erosion control measures.  P. Bertram noted those measures are 
not indicated on the plan.  The plan will be updated to indicate same and re-reviewed by GEI.   
 
T. Cole questioned  what updates had been made based on field observations. Borrego d etermined there was a slight 
modification to what was actually on site.  The HydroCAD model was modified for more accuracy as to what was actually on site.  
There was no change to the tree clearing lines.  The property line was also fine-tuned.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to continue the stormwater permit hearing for 190 Electric Avenue to June 22, 2020, 6:35 PM, T. 
Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
Hearing recessed 7:42 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Project Site Plan dated March 10, 2020 
Stormwater Permit Executive Summary and Project Sequencing 
Stormwater Report dated April 2, 2020 