===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
BrightFarms, 361 Massachusetts Avenue 
November 23, 2020 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, La nd Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:53 PM 
 
The Hearing continuation, via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review appl ications for site plan approval and stormwater 
management permit under Ch. 250, Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for 
construction of a greenhouse for commercial production of salad greens, associated parking an d roadway at 361 Massachusetts 
Avenue (Map 057, Parcel 0031), Lunenburg, MA .  Owner was 361 Mass Avenue LLC, 133 Leominster Shirley Road, Lunenburg, 
MA.  Applicant was MA Greenhouse LLC, 1 Bridge Street, Suite 2-004, Irvington, NY.     
 
Representing Bright Farms LLC (hereinafter BF) were Sean O’Neill and Chi Man .  Reviewing engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves 
Engineering Inc. (hereinafter GEI) was unable to attend, but had noted his concern to A. Burney that stabilization of the spillway 
slope needed to be provid ed; preferably something more permanent than jute matting .  GEI was unable to do complete 
hydrology calculations due to insufficient information on the watershed map.  Chi Man, Hardy + Man Design Group, noted he had 
spoken with GEI in regards to the slope;  BF would utilize a rip rap slope.  The sub -catchment area on the watershed map would 
be made more dis tinguishable for GEI to complete calculations.  Grading for access to Basin 2 was too steep; it needed to be 
regraded.   
 
Board members were responsive to  scheduling an additional meeting on December 7 th specifically to finish up the BrightFarms 
Hearing.  P. Bertram stated that she was not in favor of shrubbery in the basins as she felt it would make for difficult 
maintenance.  Chi Man responded that the latest iteration replaced the shrubbery with a seed mix good for basins.  
 
There was discussion concerning the draw -down devices in the infiltration basins.  T. Cole noted that he had done basin 
maintenance in the past and felt that such a device was apt to freeze and break, being more of a liability than an asset.  Chi Man 
responded that s oil conditions were such that these basins would drain within 72 hours , but that d raw-down device s were 
currently included in the design of the infiltration basins.  T. Cole made Motion that a waiver be granted for the draw -down 
device in the infiltration basins, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11.23.2020 
BrightFarms 
Page 2 
 
Bertram made Motion to continue Hearing to December 7th, 6:35 PM, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  T. Cole, aye; 
P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
Hearing recessed 7:32 PM 
 
 
 
 
Document used at meeting: 
GEI Review Letter dated November 13, 2020 
 
 