===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
August 10, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Matthew Brenner, 
present; Erik Torgersen, present. 
Absent:  Paula Bertram 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is be ing recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are  open by appointment only outside the 
open hours of 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.; Monday through Th ursday.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s 
Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town 
Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the 
public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation unless 
such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is 
convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may 
join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video 
conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take ca re not to screen share your 
computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  A citizen reached out to  T. Cole with concerns regarding a project the Board recently approved.   T. Cole 
would like to see this on a future Board agenda for discussion.  T. Cole and M. Allison met with A. Burney recently to discuss 
various Board procedures.   T. Cole requested the Board discuss how to meet the concerns of the citizen and how the Board 
could change its process regarding issuing stormwater permits.   
 
BYLAW DISCUSSIONS: 
Ch 204, Stormwater & Storm Sewers -  This was adopted a number of years ago as a zoning bylaw in response to the NPDES 
(National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System) Permit issued by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency).  This is now a 
general bylaw, and the Board is updating it with new standards.  The majority of the updates were taken from the permi t; this 
would ensure the Town’s compliance.  M. Brenner wanted clarification that the numbers used will b e effective for future storms.  
T. Cole commented that the bylaw, if accepted at town meeting, would impact  only future projects.  He had concerns with  getting 
a bylaw passed at town meeting, and that if it is too overreaching, it would be less likely to pass.  The Board anticipated t he 
bylaw going to fall special town meeting.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 08.10.2020 
Page 2 
 
LID (Low Impact Development) Bylaw -  In conjunction with above discussion surrounding Ch 204, the Board also viewed an 
LID bylaw from a nearby community.  There was discussion regarding issuance of building permits by the Building Commissioner 
only after an LID permit had been obtained/was not required. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
07.27.2020-  T. Cole made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. 
Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
07.27.2020, Northfield Road -  T. Cole made Motion to approve, M.  Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission-  Farmers’ market continues to be held on Sundays, 10 – 1.      
TCP Building Design Committee -  Committee reorganized.  Engineering firm took samples of suspected hazardous materials 
throughout the building; the Committee is awaiting those results.  T. Cole opined there should be a traffic study, but questioned 
how that would be done properly during COVID -19 with the possibility of remote learning  during the school year .  There was 
discussion surrounding a space for the Boys and Girls Club.  Where does the authority rest in determining community use?   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  no report 
Capital Planning Committee- no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Rules & Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land -  A. Burney suggested that the  Board utilize the  first meeting, 
bimonthly, for a workshop towards working on the rules and regulations.  A. Burney would draw up a calendar noting workshop 
dates to the public so applicants could plans their submittal s outside of scheduled workshops.  ANRs would be permitted during 
workshop meetings.   
 
400 Howard Street:   A. Burney had an in house meeting with Kevin O’Brien and his attorney.  An alternative proposal was 
presented by K. O’Brien for the 400 Howard Street property.  The proposal is being reviewed by both A. Burney and the Building 
Commissioner for compliance with the bylaw.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:     
August 24-  
Northfield Road scenic hearing 
Common Driveway Application, Northfield Road 
ANR Plan, 300 Holman Street West 
ANR Plan, 524 Northfield Road 
September 14- Workshop 
September 28 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:  Discussed above 
Chapter 204, Stormwater and Storm Sewers 
LID Bylaw 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.  Adjourned 7:45 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 
    07.27.2020 
    07.27.2020, Northfield Road 
Stormwater & Storm Sewers Bylaw, DRAFT 
LID Bylaw (sample) 