===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
July 13, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present; Erik Torgersen, present. 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is bei ng recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of H ealth, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.  I n 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation  is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see y ou 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may  be captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
BOARD REORGANIZATION/COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS:   
Chair-  P. Bertram made Motion for Matthew Allison, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Vice Chair-  P. Bertram made Motion for Tanner Cole, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Clerk-  T. Cole made Motion for Paula Bertram, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
MRPC-  P. Bertram made Motion for Matthew Brenner, T. Cole Seco nded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; 
M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 07.13.2020 
Page 2 
 
MJTC- P. Bertram made Motion for Matthew Brenner, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Capital Planning Committee  (three year appointment) -  P. Bertram made Motion for Erik Torgersen, M. Brenner 
Seconded.  T. Cole made Motion for Matthew Allison; Motion not Seconded.  Motion failed.  Roll Call Vote  for Erik 
Torgersen-  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  M. Brenner made Motion for Paula Bertram, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. 
Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Stormwater Task Force - P. Bertram made Motion for Matthew Allison, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, 
aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
TCP Building D esign Committee - M. Brenner made Motion for Tanner Cole, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. 
Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
 
Agricultural Commission Liaison - As this is a liaison position, and M. Alli son is currently the Chair, Board consensus was not 
to vote on this position.   
 
APPOINTMENT:  68 Elm Street, Common Drive -  Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, represented the applicant Ron Koivu, 
Harbor Classic Homes, LLC.  B. Marchetti appeared before the Board at the June 22, 2020 meeting.  The applicant was seeking 
approval for a common drive for Lots 2 and 3  at the rear of the parcel .  At the June 22, 2020 meeting the Board questioned why 
the drive didn’t follow the lot line per Code of Lunenburg, §325- Schedule N.  Lot lines had to be reconfigured as the dwelling at 
68 Elm (Lot 1) was determined to be historic and therefore could not be demolished.  The Board was awaiting an opinion from 
the Building Commissioner before voting on the common drive.  B. Marchetti summarized the Building Commissioner’s letter 
dated July 1, 2020 (on file in the Planning Office) by stating it was reasonable to allow for the common driveway in the proposed 
configuration.  B. Marchetti also opined that the proposed drive lo cation was safer than following the lot lines.  M. Allison stated 
that the letter did not speak to the Board’s concern of the drive splitting the lot lines.  P. Bertram noted that the letter stated “The 
common driveway would reduce curb cuts creating less disturbances to surrounding wetlands.”  She asked B. Marchetti to speak 
to that.  He responded there would be two curb cuts; one for the existing house and one for the back lots.  If the applicant split s 
the lot line, the angle in which the drive meets Elm  Street would be more unsafe than having a perpendicular drive connection to 
Elm Street.  Adding a second drive would have more impact on the wetlands towards the parcel rear.  He did note that the 
common drive as laid out would impact the 100 foot buffer zone and the fire truck turning area was also within the 100 foot buffer 
zone, but if another drive was added it would be closer to the wetlands and possibly within the 50 foot no structure zone.  P. 
Bertram asked if there would be a greater impact to the wetlands if the drive followed the lot line.  B. Marchetti responded no, but 
sight distances would be reduced due to the driveway angle.  T. Cole stressed that Schedule N states if a common driveway 
cannot be located to split the lot line the Board could m ake a determination, but Schedule N makes no reference to impacting 
wetlands or sightlines.  T. Cole went on to state that the applicant developed the parcel into thes e lots knowing that driveways 
would have to be developed.  If the land division had been made in a more reasonable way then the applicant c ould have the 90 
degree drive access onto Elm Str eet.  B. Marchetti stressed that  this is a better layout from both an engineering and safety 
aspect.  Th e culvert under Elm Street and the placement of a uti lity pole makes the driveway location difficult.  B. Marchetti 
asserted that the proposal me t the character of the neighborhood and was the safer solution.  It was his opinion that the Board 
was supporting a driveway layout that is less safe.   
 
It was noted to B. Marchetti for clarification that if the applicant split the lot line, Board approval would not be required.  It would 
simply require a driveway permit through the Building Commissioner.   
 
B. Marchetti wished to withdraw the proposed plan and will redraw to straddle the lot line at the frontage.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to accept the withdrawal of the common driveway at 68 Elm Street, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. 
Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3 -0.  (M. Brenner and E. Torgersen were not included in the vote as 
they were not Board members at the prior Board meeting.) 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 07.13.2020  
Page 3 
 
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS: 
Economic Development Committee - The Board received two Talent Bank forms for the Committee; Cathy  Clark and Jaclynn 
Nicoll.  Each candidate spoke as to why they wished to serve.   
 
J. Nicoll was aware that the Committee want ed small businesses to succeed.  She opened a new business in Lunenburg last 
year and now wanted to help new business owners coming into the community.  She summarized her professional background 
for the Board members and voiced an interest in the one year term as a resident of Lunenburg.   
 
C. Clark noted she ha d been a business owner since 2015.  Her business is now on -line, but she continues to rent businesses 
for the  property owner of both the “The Village”  and the Dragonfly building in the center of town.  She started a Lunenburg 
business network prior to the formation of the Lunenburg Business Association.  She was interested i n seeing more business 
come to Lunenburg and expressed an interest in filling the two year term as a resident of Lunenburg.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to appoint JC Nicoll and Cathy Clark to the Economic Development Committee  for the one and 
two years terms  respectively, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E.  
Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
The Conservation Commission, Open Space Ad Hoc Committee and Agricultural Commission still need to appoint a member  to 
the Committee.  Tom Alonzo from the Board of Selectmen and Paula Bertram from the Planning Board serve as ex -officio 
members.   
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, At Large - The Board received two Talent Bank forms for the At -Large vacancies; Lynne Man 
and Michael Toohill.  Each candidate spoke as to why they wished to serve.   
 
L. Man noted a background in public health and awareness of the importance of community -based health.  This motivated her to 
become involved in community government.  She had experience in program planning and was familiar with grant-writing.   
 
M. Toohill noted his experience as an ecologist  working with communities and the State.  He had also worked with towns in 
obtaining funding for conservation.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to appoin t Lynne Man and Michael Toohill to the Open Space Committee, T. Cole Seconded, 
Roll Call Vote-  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5 -0.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
06.22.2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner, abstain; E. Torgersen, abstain; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
06.22.2020, 190 Electric Avenue- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  P. Bertram, aye; 
T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, abstain; E. Torgersen; abstain, M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Capital Planning Committee- no report 
Stormwater Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission- Vendor participation at the Farmers’ Market varies between 12 and 16 weekly.   
TCP Building Design Committee- Project currently being engineered.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report 
MRPC-  The Conservation Commission received a grant to install maps at trail intersections  on various properties.  MRPC is 
working with Lunenburg regarding map specifics.  MRPC is finalizing a mobile app lication that will allow communities to update 
trail data from mobile phones.   
MJTC- no report 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
Minutes 07.13.2020 
Page 4 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
190 Electric Avenue, Update -  The services of Christopher Environmental Associates have been retained as the third party 
monitor on 190 Electric Avenue.   
Stormwater Bylaw - The bylaw was updated as a result of Board dialogue with  the Stormwater Task Force  consultant Nick 
Cristofori, Comprehensive Environmental Inc .  For the benefit of the new Board members A. Burney explained that the current 
bylaw requires a stormwater permit when a developer is disturbing more than one acre of land.  This was required by the original 
Phase II permit from 2003.  The Board is now updating the bylaw to meet the language in the new 2018 Permit.  P. Bertram 
previously opined that some of the language needed to be altered as the Board did not always required 100% compliance wit h 
the Massachusetts Stormwater Management Policy.  Did the Board have the abilit y to lessen those regulations?  The Board 
anticipates the bylaw going to fall special town meeting.  It will continue to be an ongoing agenda item in the event any 
discussion may be entertained.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:     
July 27- Scenic Road Hearing, Northfield Road 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; 
M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5-0.    Adjourned 8:31 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 
    06.22.2020 
    06.22.2020, 190 Electric Avenue 
68 Elm Street, Common Drive Plan 
Talent Bank Forms 
    Michael Toohill 
    Lynne Man 
    Cathy Clark 
    Jaclynn Nicoll 
Stormwater and Storm Sewers Bylaw, DRAFT 