===PAGE 1===
 
 
lTOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula, Bertram, Member    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Clerk - Vacant   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member - Vacant 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
June 22, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present:  
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this  meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC re garding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.  I n 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all pu blic 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  M. Allison noted that the Board had two new members as a result of the June 20, 2020 Town election.  He 
also noted that some outside membership interest was expressed in the Economic Development Committee.   
 
ANR PLANS: 
300 Holman Street West - It was noted that the Board previously passed on a Right of First Refusal for an 8 acre parcel.  This 
ANR division takes place within that 8 acre parcel.  The applicant was re presented by Ed McSweeney, Bray Ave 9, LLC.  Five 
lots will eventually be carved out of the 8 acre parcel.  Tonight the applicant presented Lots 1 and 2.  Lot frontage was on 
Northfield Road.  T. Cole noted that Northfield Road is a scenic road.  Prior to the applicant’s ownership, the stone wall in Lot 2 
was opened up to harvest the timber.  The Board was looking for Mr. McSweeney to make enhancements to that in conjunction 
with his scenic road hearing.  Mr. McSweeney responded that t he driveway for Lot 2 will be off Holman Street , not Northfield 
Road, but that he still intends to take mitigation measures .  The driveway for Lot 1 will be off Northfield Road.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 300 Holman Street West, T. Cole Seconded, Roll C all Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, 
aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 06.22.2020 
Page 2 
 
27 The Clearing- Tabled due to zoning issues the applicant needs to take up with the Zoning Board of Appeals.  
 
APPOINTMENT:  68 Elm Street, Common Dri ve-  Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, represented the applicant Ron Koivu, 
Harbor Classic Homes, LLC.  The applicant was seeking approval for a common drive for Lots 2 and 3.  Lot lines had to be 
reconfigured as the dwelling at 68 Elm (Lot 1) was dete rmined to be historic and therefore could not be demolished.  There is a 
culvert under Elm Street and also placement of a utility pole which makes the driveway location difficult.  The driveway was 
proposed at a 15 foot width,  approximately 795 feet in len gth.  An emergency vehicle turnaround is located at the end of the 
driveway.  A utility easement is proposed which will run all the way to the road .  T. Cole questioned how much of the frontage is 
encumbered by the easement.  There will be an easement plan  recorded with the deed when the plan is finalized.  T. Cole 
opined that the purpose of the common drive is to grant relief.  He felt that the applicant could meet the byl aw if lot lines were 
adjusted, but that would result in the loss of a lot.  B. Marchetti noted that two driveways would create an impact to the wetlands.   
Board consensus was to wait on input from the Building Commissioner.  P. Bertram made Motion to continue the 
appointment to the July 13 th Board meeting, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, 
aye.  Vote Passed 3-0.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  190 Electric Avenue -  See separate minutes .  The Board discussed Conditions for the Decision with the 
following being determined:   
 
 1. The Board’s issuance of a specia l permit for the Project is based on the plans referenced above, as revised, 
and the other documents submitted to the Planning Office and to the Board, including all notes and 
references shown thereon.  
 2. The Project shall be completed in substantial con formance with the plans as revised, and the other 
documents submitted to the Planning Office and to the Board, unless otherwise specified herein.  Any 
substantial deviation from the same shall require review by and approval of the Board.  
 3. The Board, the Town’s Building Commissioner and Inspector(s) and their respective agent(s) may enter onto, 
view and inspect the Project Site during regular business hours, without notice, so as to ensure compliance 
with the terms and conditions hereof, subject to applic able safety requirements as established by the 
Applicant and/or its general contractor. 
 4. To the extent that the project requires any other permit, license or approval from any official, board, 
commission or committee of the Town of Lunenburg or from any  agency of the Commonwealth or the federal 
government, whether as the result of any condition hereby imposed or otherwise, the Applicant shall make 
an appropriate application for and obtain the same.  
 5. No work shall commence unless and until the Applica nt is in full compliance with all permits, licenses, 
approvals, orders and agreements of any kind issued by or entered into with any official, board, commission 
or committee of the Town of Lunenburg. 
 6.   As and whenever used above, the term “Applicant” s hall mean the Applicant, its heirs, successors and 
assigns and the term “Board” shall mean the Planning Board, whoever its members and however it may be 
constituted from time to time. 
 7. Prior to commencement of work hereunder, this Decision shall be reco rded with the Worcester (North) 
District Registry of Deeds. 
 8. Erosion and sedimentation controls shall be installed along the entire proposed limit of the project prior to 
work beginning.    
 9. The Planning Board will retain the services of a Construction Monitor to be funded by the applicant  to remain 
until the site is 90% vegetated.  
 10. The applicant or its designee shall report any problems with the erosion controls to the Planning Board, in 
writing, within twenty four (24) hours.  
 11. After tree c learing, and as part of the initial grubbing phase, the proposed detention basin shall be 
constructed as a sedimentation and settling basin.   
 
T. Cole made Motion to approve the stormwater permit for 190 Electric Avenue with Conditions as listed above, P.  
Bertram, Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote Passed 3-0.   
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 06.22.2020 
Page 3 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
06.08.2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; T. Co le, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Vote Passed 3-0. 
 
06.08.2020, 190 Electric Avenue- P .Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; 
T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote Passed 3-0. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Annual Town Meeting, Followup- The Earth Removal bylaw failed by three votes and the subsequent article to transfer 
authority to the Planning Board also failed.  Enforcement of the current Earth Removal bylaw remains with the Board of 
Selectmen.    
Population Study, Update - The Town Manager authorized signing of the contract with UMass Donahue Institute.  Donahue 
Institute anticipates being able to complete the Study by the end of the year.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:     
July 13- Board Meeting-  
 68 Elm Street, Common Driveway 
 Northfield Road Scenic Road Hearing 
July 27- Board Meeting 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  M. Allison requested committee reports be added back onto the agenda.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -- P. Bertram, aye; T. C ole, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Vote Passed 3-0.  Adjourned 8:20 PM.   
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 
    06.08.2020 
    06.08.2020, 190 Electric Avenue 
ANR Plan-  300 Holman Street West 
68 Elm Street, Common Drive Plan 