===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
BrightFarms, 361 Massachusetts Avenue 
September 14, 2020 
 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present; Erik Torgersen, present. 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  7:02 PM 
 
The Hearing , via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review applications for site plan approval and stormwater 
management permit under Ch. 250, Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for 
construction of a greenhouse for commercial production of salad greens, associated parking and roadway  at 361 Massachusetts 
Avenue (Map 057, Parcel 0031), Lunenburg, MA .  Owner was 361 Mass Avenue LLC, 133 Leominster Shirley Road, Lunenburg, 
MA.  Applicant was MA Greenhouse LLC, 1 Bridge Street, Suite 2-004, Irvington, NY.     
 
Presentation given by Sean O’Neill on behalf of BrightFarms LLC (hereinafter BF).  Survey elements for the plan have been hard 
to obtain due to high demand of surveyors.  BF hoped to have those numbers available as soon as possible.  This evening BF 
hoped to answer any Board question s and gather a list of what needed to be assembled.  Site walks were held with the 
Conservation Commission and the Chair of the Open Space Committee.  Discussion was held with both regarding a trail to 
connect two pieces of Town owned open space land.  BF anticipated conveying 1.5± acres to the Town to connect those sites.   
 
The Building Commissioner ’s review noted a one-story unlimited allowable area building would be allowed only if the most fire 
resistant construction was utilized and if the building was surrounded and adjoined by public ways or yards not less than 60 feet 
in width.  If these conditions were not met, the height and area of the building would be reduced .   
 
The Fire Department’s review noted the proposed 20 foot gravel access road would n ot be acceptable for fire apparatus to turn 
around and an all -weather driving surface would be required to support the load of the fire apparatus.  BF proposed two paved 
turnarounds on either side where the two buildings would join.  There would also be a hard-packed gravel drive encircling the 
buildings, which would meet up with the two paved turnarounds. 
 
BF anticipated a decrease in impervious surface by reducing the width of the access drive and the width of the parking spaces.   
P. Bertram asked the distance from the parking area to the detention basin  – 60 feet.  She also inquired where the specifications 
are in the MA Stormwater Handbook for BF’s specific detention pond design.  There would be a catch system for harvesting 
rainwater for growing the gre ens.  BF would also be applying to the Lunenburg Water District for an expansion of its withdrawal 
permit.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 
BrightFarms, 361 Massachusetts Avenue 
Pg 2 
 
A project review was in process by Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI).  The ongoing  review was considered 
preliminary due to the status of the site design.  A large quantity of additional information would be required.  GEI was als o 
requested to review for the Sewer Commission.  GEI noted a culvert would be needed under the access drive.   
 
P. Bertram asked for detail on the black -out curtains and the impact to neighbors.  Specifications would be provided.   M. Allison 
brought up that the Impact Report for traffic noted a one -hour shift overlap from 12 – 1 PM.  This would require full park ing to 
accommodate that overlap.  BF will research.  BF noted a MEPA  (Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act)  filing was being 
prepared.  BF would need a highway access permit.   
 
T. Cole made Motion to continue the Hearing to September 28th, 6:35 PM, P. B ertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, 
aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5-0 
 
Hearing recessed 8:00 PM. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Site Plan dated 08.24.2020 
 
 