===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Marisa Thompson, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Vacancy, Memb er 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
January 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Marisa Thompson, Adam R. Burney 
 
ANR PLANS: 
871 & 915 Northfield Road-  Plan presented by John Harrison, 915 Northfield Road.  Fifty feet of frontage will be taken from 871 
Northfield Road and added to 915 Northfield Road.  915 Northfield Road  will be divided into three lots; Lot 1A, 2A, and 3.  Lots 
1A and 2A will have access via an existing common drive; Lot 3 will have its own access.  P. Bertram made Motion to endorse 
the ANR Plan for 871 and 915 Northfield Road, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  
 
41 & 47 Reservoir Road- Plan presented by Steve Ballard, Whitman and Bingham Associates on behalf of 155 Reservoir Trust.  
Both proposed lots have reduced frontage, but the required area.  Due to the location of wetlands, a common drive is proposed .  
The common drive will run along the property line.  M. Allison questioned, as the creation of this division will give a total of ten 
lots, does affordability come into play.  A. Burney responded that would be a determination of the Building Commissioner.  His 
(A. Burney) opinion was that would apply to a planned residential area, subdivision, etc.; not a series of lots.  The Board viewed 
the 2015 endorsed plan that created the first nine lots.  Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering noted when the ANR was 
endorsed in 2015, 155 Reservoir Rd only owned the front half, and not the  25 acres in the back parcel.  Lot 9 was not developed 
and there was an easement to get to the back parcel.  Board members wanted to get input from the Building Commissioner as to 
the 10% affordability with the creation of the tenth lot.  A. Burney responded that even if the affordability comes into play, it does 
not affect endorsement of the ANR.  P. Bertram made Motion that a letter be sent to the Building Commissioner informing 
him of the prior subdivision into nine lots and requesting a determination if the creation of this tenth lot triggers the 
10% affordability threshold under the Bylaw, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  T. Cole made Motion to approve the ANR Plan 
for 41 and 47 Reservoir Road, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.   
 
COMMON DRIVE PLAN:  41 & 47 Reservoir Road-  Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, presented on behalf of 155 
Reservoir Road Trust.  A common drive is being proposed as a perennial stream bisects the property; the common drive will 
minimize impact.  The common drive straddles  the lot line, and then veers away due to the wetlands.  An Order of Conditions 
has been received from the Conservation Commission for the installation of a culvert.  The DPW Director, in his review, n oted 
the current roadway moratorium.  A 2-inch main water connection is being proposed to service the back two lots; the property 
owner will work with the DPW Director.  The Fire Chief stressed that the culvert be substantial enough to support heavy vehicl es.  
The Town’s heaviest fire vehicle is 44,000 lbs.  The culvert is delivered to the site pre -manufactured and will exceed a 50,000 
pound rating.  As the drive is over 1,000 feet in length, a 40x40 paved turnaround is provided.  Given that the proposed shared 
driveway attempts to meet requirements of the bylaw as far as feasible due to the lot constraints, P. Bertram made 
Motion to approve the proposed common drivew ay for 41 and 47 Reservoir Road with the stipulation that the culvert 
meet a minimum vehicle weight of 50,000 pounds and that it be so certified, M. Thompson Seconded, all aye.    
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.27.2020 
Page 2 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  1325 Massachusetts Avenue- see separate minutes.  Hearing was continued to February 10 th.   
 
APDC CHAIR:     
Brooks House D iscussion-  APDC Chair Richard McGrath, 22 Cushing Lane , and APDC Clerk Cullen Dwyer, 76 Main Street,  
noted the APDC has the understanding that the Brooks House is to eventually go on the market, and once sold, removed from 
the site.  The APDC feels this is unlikely to happen.  They anticipate it will eventually be demolished, at a cost to the Town.  They 
are looking for Board guidance on creating a lot that conforms to zoning which would allow the building to remain on site.  There 
was Board discussion of an ANR Plan, but that would have to be initiated by the Select Board as the property owner.  The Board 
asked A. Burney to send a letter to the Select Board requesting a meeting for discussion of the Brooks House, Library, and the 
school buildings as to ex isting uses and the future sustainability of those uses.  The Board feels it would be beneficial for both 
the APDC and the TCP Building Design Committee to be invited to that meeting.   
Scenic Road Violation – Holman and Northfield- As members of the Histo rical Commission, R. McGrath and C. Dwyer noted 
a stone wall had b een removed fro m a portion of Northfield Road ( a designated scenic road).  They had contacted the 
Conservation Commission  and were informed that a letter would be sent to the contractor that  bulldozed the site.  A. Burney 
noted there are no penalties that can be levied as the Town does not have a scenic road bylaw.  The  Board was of the opinion 
that a scenic road general bylaw, to include fines, should be created.   
 
EARTH REMOVAL BYLAW:  Board was in possession of a new draft.  Approval criteria were clarified that will not diminish the 
Board’s subjectivity.  A neighborhood’s character can be taken into consideration, e.g. a heavily traveled area  versus a more 
rural road.  There was discussion of separate articles for town meeting, i.e., one article which would move the granting authority 
from the Select Board to the Planning Board; another article would be the proposed bylaw.  A. Burney will seek legal input.  He 
sent both the proposed bylaw and rules and regulations to the environmental safety compliance officer and operations dir ector at 
Keating and received a favorable response.  Discussion turned to the Earth Removal Rules and Regulations.  There was 
discussion on establishing a threshold that would  trigger a soil testing requirement by a licensed professional soil evaluator.  
There was discussion on quarry operations  and whether or not to write separate rules and regulations or allow the Board to 
waive the six -foot high water table require ment.  M. Allison suggested that there be  separate regulations for earth fill and earth 
removal.  A. Burney suggested doing a regulation for removal at this time, then come back at a later date for a regulation on fill.  
Board consensus was to go with a  threshold of 1,500 cubic yards  to trigger a permit .  Discussion will continue at the next Board 
meeting.  
 
RULES & REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SUBDIVISION OF LAND:  Tabled until after Warrant closes in March. 
 
MGL CH. 41, § 81D, MASTER PLAN:  In speaking with engineers during the 2020 MMA Annual Meeting , A. Burney received 
both positive and negative input concerning a population projection.  Based on comments received, his  suggestion is to go with 
UMass Donahue Institute.  A. Burney clarified what the Board is requesting and will keep the Board updated.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  01.13.2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- Recommendation for FY 2021 forwarded to the Finance Committee. 
Storm Water Task Force -   A Task Force member noted that Hickory Hills has a stormwater sub-committee under its lake 
management group.  They are hiring a consultant to look at the main lake.  P. Bertram noted that they prepared a n educational 
brochure which she will send to A. Burney for public distribution.   
Agricultural Commission-    No quorum available.  Commission has a vacancy.    
TCP Building Design Committee-    Meeting scheduled for January 29th to interview firms that responded to the RFQ. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   The Committee feels they should not have a representative on the Economic Development 
Committee as stated in the Charge ; the appointments are better suited to other Town departments.  A. Burney clarified it does 
not necessarily have to be a member of the Open Space Committee.  They could appoint someone from outside the Committee.   
Land Acquisition Committee-  no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  No Board representative. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 01.27.2020 
Page 3 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Stormwater Bylaw:  A. Burney pointed out the Board needs to discuss fees  and any changes to the measurable goals.  
Discussion tabled to February 10th.    
 
Mr. O’Brien, property owner on Howard Street, contacted A. Burney to propose a possible change to his Approval.  He  is 
proposing one-bedroom, senior apartments.  A. Burney noted new zoning would be required due to the project density , and 
suggested a new bylaw be written, similar to a PRA (planned residential area) bylaw that could be applied Town -wide.  Another 
approach would be a friendly comprehensive permit where Mr. O’Brien and Lunenburg could partner for a local initiative project   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
February 10-  Earth Removal, Stormwater, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue Continuation  
February 24- 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-    
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-   
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan-  
 
BOARD COMMENT:  M. Allison noted that Ashburnham has an open space residential development by law.  A requirement is for 
a “proof plan” which shows the maximum number of units that could be built on a subdivided parcel.    
 
ADJOURNMENT:   P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 9:35 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR PLANS: 
    871 & 915 Northfield Road- 
    41 & 47 Reservoir Road- 
COMMON DRIVE PLAN:  41 & 47 Reservoir Road- 
Minutes 01.13.2020 
Earth Removal Bylaw – DRAFT 
 
 