===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
November 9, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Paula Bertram, present;  Matthew Brenner, 
present. 
Absent:  Tanner Cole, Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is being reco rded and broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health,  Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  A ll town facilities are  currently open on a limited basis .  In 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisi ons of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allow s public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is r equired by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as posted on the  Town’s website.  
The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and ent er the meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-
4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is: 894 1515 4106.   Please note that this meeting is being recorded and that some 
attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks  may be able to see you and take 
care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  A. Burney reminded the viewers that special town meeting will be held November 17 th at the Middle/High 
School.    
 
APPOINTMENTS:  496 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg Water District - Request for De Minimis Change - When the 
Board issued its Decision for the project in 2017 it approved the sign location , but also requested more sign information .  At that 
time, the Water District Superinte ndent did not know what type of sign would be installed .  The Water District returned to the 
Board this evening to request a modification on the sign.  The Board was in possession of a sign design along with a letter w hich 
requested approval of a De Minimis change.  The sign location would not change ; the sign dimension would be 24 SF.  Section 
250-6.5 E.(1) of the Bylaw specified signs could not exceed 9 SF .  The Applicant would have to go before the Zoning Board of 
Appeals for the dimensions.  Once approval was received from the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Applicant would have to return 
to the Planning Board.  
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 11.09.2020 
Page 2 
 
PUBLIC HEARING: 361 Massachusetts Avenue, BrightFarms -  Continuance requested by the Applicant.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to continue BrightFarms to November 23 rd, 6:35 PM, M. Brenner Seconded, roll call vote - P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
361 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, BRIGHTFARMS - Review/Vote on Board Dec ision- Tabled due to continuation of Hearing 
noted above.   
 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING:   
Stormwater Bylaw Warrant Article-  See below. 
View Stormwater Presentation - Board viewed the PowerPoint presentation for special town meeting .  The bylaw, if adopted at 
town meeting , would make the Town’s requirements more stringent than the State’s ; yet the  Town would be paralleling the 
requirements of the permit issued by the federal government .  P. Bertram voiced concerns with any requirements being more 
stringent than the State.  A. Burney intended to stress at special town meeting that this would not affect the average homeowner, 
e.g., someone putting in a garden, pool, shed, etc.  This would be most like ly to affect large commercial projects and multi -family 
dwellings.  M. Brenner recommended a n introductory  slide which would  omit the technical information  and outline how an 
individual would be personally impacted .  Board consensus was that the initial slide would state why the existing bylaw was 
being changed , followed  by what was being changed and why .  The slide presentation would conclude with defining NPDES 
(National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System).   Slides would be revised by A. Burney.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
10/26/2020-  P. Bertram made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
10/26/2020, BrightFarms, 361 Massachusetts Avenue - P. Bertram made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll 
Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
10/26/2020, Rules & Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Section 325 -3.2.- P. Bertram made Motion to 
approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE:  View/Vote on Revised Charge - The Board, at its October 26 th meeting, 
discussed desired membership changes to the Committee’s Charge.  The requirement for a Conservation Commission member 
was removed, along wit h the Agricultural Commission member, or designee, being a  Lunenburg business owner.  The at -large 
membership was changed from two to three.  M. Brenner made Motion to accept the changes to the Charge for the 
Lunenburg Economic Development Committee, P. Be rtram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - M. Brenner, aye; P. Bertram, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- No report 
Agricultural Commission-  Next meeting scheduled for November 19th.     
TCP Building Design Committee-   Committee met with architect and engineer to review presentation for special town meeting.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Next meeting scheduled for November 24th.   
Capital Planning Committee– Next meeting scheduled for November 10th.   
MRPC–   Trails Mapping data updated.  MRPC waited to hear from Lunenburg on specifics about map design.  MRPC had 
completed calculations for ramp slopes for public buildings for the ADA Self-Evaluation.   
MJTC– Next meeting scheduled for November 10th.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
360 Flat Hill Road, Right of First Refusal , Update- Select Board agreed to hold off on taking action until it hears back from the 
Open Space Committee.   
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Minutes 11.09.2020 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
November 17, STM, 7:00 PM, MSHS - Board meeting  would be posted for 6:3 0 PM in the event any warrant items need 
discussion. 
November 23-  
BrightFarms Hearing continuation 
Workshop 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: A. Burney reiterated public attendance at special town meeting. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
Adjourned 7:31 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Stormwater PowerPoint Presentation 
Minutes: 
    10.26.2020 
    10.26.2020, BrightFarms, 361 Massachusetts Avenue 
    10.26.2020, Rules & Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land 
Charge, Economic Development Committee 
496 Massachusetts Avenue, Request for De Minimis Change 
 