===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
300 Holman Street West 
July 27, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:35 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Dire ctor:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are open by appointment only .  In 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed thro ugh the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public particip ation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see y ou 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss a request to remove six (6) small trees, one larg e tree, and create two new driveway 
entrances across the street from 499 Northfield Road at an address currently known as 300 Holman Street West (Map 021, 
Parcel 0011), under M.G.L. Ch. 40, Section 15C, Scenic Road Designations and under M.G.L. Ch. 87, Sec tion 3, Cutting of 
Public Shade Trees. 
 
The applicant Bray Ave 9, LLC was represented by Ed McSweeney.  There would be a driveway to serve a single family home 
and also a shared driveway.  The applicant had marked the two driveways and requested the Town’s  Tree Warden view the site.  
The stone wall at both locations was missing.  The applicant would restore the stone walls twenty (20’) feet to the left and right of 
each proposed drive.  A. Burney noted that the property was previously the subject of a fores t cutting permit.  When the loggers 
entered onto the property, the stone wall that was in place at that time at a different l ocation was damaged.  It was unknown to  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
300 Holman Street West, 07.27.2020 
Page 2 
 
both the Land Use Director and the Board members as to whether the loggers had entered from Holman Street or from Northfield 
Road.  At this time a stormwater permit would not be required, but will be once an ac re of disturbance  is reached .  Three 
driveways are proposed, but only two of them are on Nor thfield Road.  Lot 2 at the intersection of Northfield Road and Holman 
Street had a proposed driveway coming in off Holman Street , which is not a scenic road .  There would be a shared driveway off 
Northfield Road serving Lot 1 and a yet to be created Lot 5 to the rear.  There would be a second driveway entrance on a yet to 
be proposed lot division on what is now the Brightman property at 524 Northfield Road.  (The applicant intends to purchase a 
portion of the Brightman property.)   
 
T. Cole noted that the proposed division at 524 Northfield Road had not been included in the application packet nor the public 
notice.  Neither was there any documentation available for that lot.  He also felt an engineered plan should have been submitted 
instead of a sketch on an Assessor’s map.  Other Board members concurred. 
 
This date, at the request of the Land Use Director, t he applicant supplied a draft ANR Plan showing the division of the Brightman 
property.   
 
As this hearing pertain ed to driveways on a scenic road the B oard was in agreement that not enough information was available 
as to the exact location of the proposed driveways and as to whether the shared driveway w ould/would not meet the bylaw.  The 
Board would like to view an engineered plan.   
 
The applicant aske d the Board what it would like to see on a plan for the next meeting.  M. Allison would like to see all the 
current and proposed lots with proposed driveway locations , to include the Brightman lot .  He also noted that a shared driveway 
would be a separate application.   
 
The applicant will provide a request for two scenic driveway approvals.   
 
The applicant requested to withdraw the application without prejudice .  P. Bertram made Motion to accept , without prejudice, 
the withdrawal of the application for th e public hearing for the scenic road on Northfield Road, T. Cole Seconded.  Roll 
Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Scenic Road Application 