===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Member    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Clerk - Vacant   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member - Vacant 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
190 Electric Avenue 
June 22, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  7:07 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, La nd Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present.   
 
A. Burney prefaced the Hearing with the following reading.  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is bei ng recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conducted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of H ealth, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.  I n 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation  is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, pleas e note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see y ou 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may  be captured by the recording.   
 
The Hearing continuation was to hear and discuss a  stormwater management special permit under Ch. 204 of the Code of the 
Town of Lunenburg for a 2.4 MW photovoltaic system located at 190 Electric Avenue , (Map 077, Parcel 0 014), Lunenburg, MA.  
Applicant- Borrego Solar Systems, Inc. 55 Technology Drive Suite 102, Lowell, MA.  Property owner - Lunenburg Solar LLC, 259 
Turnpike Road Suite 100, Southborough, MA.    
 
The applicant was represented by Brandon Smith, Borrego Solar Systems, Inc.  B. Smith noted items from the initial hearing that 
required the applicant’s action; to locate specific locations for potential vehicle washing and refueling  on the plan.  Peer reviewer 
Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI) provided a June 19, 2020 review letter stating that all outstanding concerns had been satisfied.   
 
T. Cole asked if the detention basin w as going to be started during the initial phase of construction , prior to stumping, grubbing, 
and installing infrastructure.  Borrego responded erosion controls w ould be in place prior to tree clearing, but permanent 
stormwater structures, e.g., basin, wo uld not go in until earth work as the area w ould need to be cleared for the basin.  T. Cole’s 
concern was if all water was directed downhill toward the detention basin, the basin should be the first item in the earth work  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
Minutes, 6-22-2020 
190 Electric Avenue 
Page 2 
 
process to provide for some sediment and detention control .  Borrego noted the stump grindings w ould be used as additional 
erosion controls.  M. Allison suggested adding  to the S ite Inspection Protocol, Operation & Maintenance Department, that after 
every rain event the basin be inspected for excess sediment.  Borrego responded a long term plan for post-construction clean 
out procedures was outlined in the SWPPP.  Borrego’s goal was to ensure no sediment gets transported off site.  M. Allison 
inquired as to a silt sack on the outlet pipe in the basin during construction  and that until final stabilization, site inspections should 
be performed after every rain event to prevent siltation from exiting the flared end.  Borrego noted the SWPPP already specifies 
inspections.  T. Cole would like the basin carved out as a temporary sediment trap during the beginning of construction.  As the 
Conservation Commission required third party monitoring, A. Burney suggested the Board have that individual r eview the 
stormwater controls while on site to ensure there aren’t area s of concern.  Borrego wanted the Board to understand some 
grubbing w ould be n ecessary to get the access road in and access to the basin area.  T. Cole made Motion to close the 
Hearing for 190 Electric Avenue, Stormwater Permit , P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
Hearing closed 7:35 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
GEI Review Letter dated June 19, 2020 
Project Site Plan revised through June 5, 2020 
Borrego Solar letter dated June 8, 2020 
Site Inspection Protocol, Operation & Maintenance Department 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan dated June 5, 2020 
 