===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
June 14, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Tanner Cole, present; Matthew Allison, present; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, (arrived 7:50 p.m.); Erik Torgersen, present. 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be adv ised that this m eeting is being recorded .  The meeting of the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The 
Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board 
of Health, Massachuse tts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to 
prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently open to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of  the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The 
Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the 
Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that 
the public can follow along with the deliberations .  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation unless such 
participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by 
video conferencing via Zoom as posted on the  Town’s website.  The public may join using a smart phone, tablet or computer, go 
to zoom.us and enter the meeting ID number or call 888-475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 816 9576 3185.  Please 
note that this meeting is  being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be 
aware that other folks may be able to see you and tak e care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast 
may be captured by the recording.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  757 Chase Road - See separate minutes .  Conditions would be placed on the redevelopment project .  P. 
Bertram made Motion to approve the site plan approval and stormwater permit for Chase Road with the following 
conditions: 
Site Plan Approval Conditions: 
 All vehicle loading and unloading shall be done on the property and off of Chase Road . 
 Confirmatory soil testing shall be done when construction equipment mobilizes to the site  to install the sub-
surface infiltration system. 
 Stamped plans shall be received changing the pipe into the drainage system from 4 to 6 inches. 
 A Title 5 inspection shall be done and this Permit is issued with the Condition that the existing system will be 
utilized.  In the event a new system is required, a modification to the site plan will be required. 
Stormwater Permit Conditions: 
 All maintenance associated with the storm water system shall be included in the Stor mwater Permit  as 
Appendix A. 
 The applicant shall provide  annually, by July 1 st, a maintenance report detailing all maintenance done on the 
system. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 06.14.2021 
Page 2 
 
M. Allison Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  M. Allison, aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole,  aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   (E. Torgersen was 
unable to vote as he had missed more than one hearing.)   
 
ANR PLAN:  150 Holman Street -  The applicant, PSG Realty 225 -259 LLC (Steven Powell) was represented by Brian 
Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, Inc.  The ~ 18 acres would be div ided into seven (7) lot s.  M. Allison made Motion to approve  
the ANR Plan for 150 Holman Street, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Allison, aye; P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, 
aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  150 Holman Street -  See separate minutes .  The Operations and Maintenance Plan would be included  in 
the Board’s decision as Appendix A.   
 
The following condition would be placed on the permit: 
 That the stormwater maintenance reports be provided to the Board annually, by July 1st.   
 
The following “standard” conditions would also be placed on the permit:  
 The applicant building to the Plan, as revised. 
 The applicant abide by all other approvals received; state, federal and local. 
 Construction hours of 7: 30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. Mondays through Friday s, 8:30  a.m. – 3:30 p.m. Saturdays.  No 
construction on Sundays, state or federal holidays.   
 
B. Marchetti noted there is one tree on Northfield Road (a scenic road) within the driveway footprint.  At this time, h e did not 
know whether or not the tree was on Town property.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to approve the stormwater permit with conditions outlined above, M. Allison Seconded, Roll 
Call Vote- M. Allison, aye; P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  P. Bertram made Motion to approve minutes noted below, M. Allison Seconded, Roll Call Vote - 
M. Allison, P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0.   
05/24/2021 
05/24/2021, 150 Holman Street 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
TCP Building Design Committee- Meeting scheduled for June 16th, Ritter Memorial Building.     
Agricultural Commission- Meeting scheduled for June 17th, Ritter Memorial Building.  Farmers’ Market is open for the season.   
Storm Water Task Force-  Meeting scheduled for June 18th.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Meeting scheduled for June 15th.   
Capital Planning Committee-  No report 
Economic Development Committee-  Meeting tentatively scheduled for June 24th.   
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-  No report 
 
WORKSHOP:  Master Plan , IFB- The Board was in receipt of a new draft.  Updates included more detail on Deliverables  
(completed Land Use Element and completed Public Services & Facilities Element)  and what materials the Board would want the 
consultant(s) to utilize.  There was discussion on whether the Board would be the Master Plan Committee or would a committee 
be created.  General consensus was for the Planning Board to serve as the Master Plan Committee.  Additional detail was added 
to Consultant Qualifications.  Once A. Burney finalize d the document, it would go to the Assistant Town Manager.  It w ould run 
on the Central Register for 30 days.  A. Burney anticipated the consultant would be on board during the early fall timeframe.   
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 06.14.2021 
Page 3 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  Board members were furnished with the timeclock for the 101 Pleasant Street proposed residential 
subdivision. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  Meetings would be resuming at Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom. 
 
June 28- 
101 Pleasant Street, Public Hearing 
711 Massachusetts Avenue, Public Hearing.  T. Cole believed the site was located in the Watershed Protection District  and 
wanted the applicant made aware.   
 
July 12 
July 26 
 
BOARD COMMENTS/CONCERNS:   
Board members would like the Stormwater reporting/permitting process added to the next Agenda.   
A. Burney explained how the subsidized housing inventory (SHI) would work for a 40B development.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Allison Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Allison, aye; P. Bertram, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 5-0.  Adjourned 7:45 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 150 Holman 
Minutes: 
    05/24/2021 
    05/24/2021, 150 Holman Street 
Draft Master Plan IFB 
 
 