===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
June 28, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 p.m. 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, Matthew Brenner, Erik Torgersen, Adam R. Burney 
 
BOARD COMMENTS :  P. Bertram  noted that she would no longer be able to participate in the Economic Development 
Committee as she was already overextended.   
 
ANR PLANS: 
Fire Road 16- The Applicant, J & A Realty Trust, was represented by Peter Knox.  J & A owned ~1 3 acres at 238 Fire Road 16.  
The ANR Plan would transfer Parcel A consisting of 3,168 S.F. to 272 Fire Road 16.  A shed, owned by 272 Fire Road 16, was 
located on J  & A property ; the creation of Parcel A would place the shed on the proper owner’s property.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to approve the ANR Plan for Fire Road 16, M. Allison Seconded, all aye.   
 
830 Massachusetts Avenue - T. Cole announced that he was an abutt er to the property, but had no financial interest.  The 
Applicant, Corinne Scouten, was represented by Greg Roy, Dillis & Roy.  The parcel consisted of ~7 acres.  The frontage of th e 
property was located in the Limited Business/Residential District with the remainder in the Residence A District.  The Applicant 
wished to create Lot 2, consisting of ~2.42 acres, to the rear of the property.  This would be a reduced frontage lot.  It was noted 
that the width of the existing house, from side lot line to side lo t line did not conform to the zoning regulations.  G. Roy responded 
it was pre -existing, non-conforming.  A. Burney noted there was no defined width through a business , nor lot size specified,  in 
Limited Business/Residential.  A. Burney understood that in the past, the Building Commissioner ha d told people to follow the 
requirements for Residence A District.  (To be discussed at a future Board meeting.)  Board consensus was to seek input from 
the Building Commissioner prior to endorsing the ANR Plan.  The B oard also noted that the division would make the existing lot 
more non-conforming.  G. Roy stressed that if there was a required lot width in Limited Business/Residential, the Applicant would 
have to  comply; but there was not a required  lot width through t he building .  He went on to explain that towards the rear of 
proposed Lot 2, there would be 175 feet from side lot line to side lot line.  Both A. Burney and G. Roy would consult with the 
Building Commissioner.  The Plan would be carried forward to the July 12th Board meeting.   
 
260 Falulah Road -  The Applicant, Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority, was represented by Bill Hannigan, Hannigan 
Engineering.  The property was located in both Fitchburg and Lunenburg.  The prior business encroached onto the land of  the 
Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority.  Parcel B (in F itchburg) would be conveyed to the remaining land of Fitchburg 
Redevelopment Authority (Parcel C). Parcel A (in Lunenburg) would be conveyed to 134 Crawford Street in Fitchburg.  The Plan 
would give th e Fitchburg Redevelopment Aut hority additional frontage on Crawford Street .  P. Bertram made Motion to 
approve the ANR Plan for 260 Falulah Road, M. Brenner Seconded, all aye.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 06.28.2021 
Page 2 
 
Old Shirley Road/Leominster Shirley Road (portion  of Map 142, Parcel 0007) - The Applicant, Heirs of Paul J. Keating, was 
represented by Bill Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering.  305 Leominster Shirley Road was previously before the Board for site plan 
approval.  The proposed project was for a change of use a nd at that time the Board granted a waiver from site plan approval.  
With this ANR Plan, Parcels A and B would be conveyed to the land of Paul Foley, as Receiver  (for the previous owner), to form 
Lot 1 with frontage on Leominster Shirley Road.  B. Hannigan’s client, GVC Construction, intended to buy the property once Lot 
1 was created.  Keating would sell land to GVC Construction to do away with the encroachments at the site rear that extended 
into Parcel A .  The Board voiced displeasure with GVC Constructi on as its requested waiver from site plan approval had been 
granted, based on the site that existed at that time .  Approval of the ANR Plan would change the configuration of the site .  M. 
Brenner made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for Old Shirley Road/Leo minster Shirley Road, E. Torgersen Seconded, 
Roll Call Vote-  E. Torgersen, aye; M. Brenner, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Allison, nay; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 4 -1.  B. 
Hannigan stated he would speak with his client regarding the Board ’s concern.  At the ti me of the application for site plan 
approval, the DPW Director voiced concern with sight distance.  A. Burney would speak to the DPW Director regarding this 
issue.   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
101 Pleasant Street-  See separate minutes. 
711 Massachusetts Avenue- See separate minutes. 
 
DECISIONS:  Both Decisions were reviewed and would be finalized for Board signature.  
150 Holman Street-  
757 Chase Road-   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  P. Bertram made Motion to approve minutes noted below, M. Allison Seconded, all aye.     
06/14/2021- 
06/14/2021, 757 Chase Road- 
06/14/2021, 150 Holman Street- 
 
Below Agenda items taken out of order. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
TCP Building Design Committee-  No report 
Agricultural Commission-  There would be no Farmers’ Market on July 4th.   
Storm Water Task Force-  No report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  Committee Chair Brandon Kibbe would approach the Select Board to discuss potential uses 
for 225 Pleasant St and 671 West Street , both Town owned land.  The Committee would also reach out to other depart ments for 
feedback on potential uses.  The Committee continued to review parcels listed as general municipal ; some of those parcels 
being on Lake Shirley.  Numerous residents attended the meeting voicing opposition to the pursuing of public access to Lake 
Shirley.  The Committee had the understanding that gifting of  the dam to the Town came along with the requirement for public 
access as part of grant received from state.  Further exploration would take place. 
Capital Planning Committee-  No report 
Economic Development Committee -  The Committee worked on a draft survey.  The n ext meeting  was scheduled for July 
22nd.  Membership would be discussed at the Planning Board’s July 12th meeting as P. Bertram was no longer able to serve.   
MRPC-  Annual budget meeting held.   
MJTC-  No report 
 
WORKSHOP:   
Stormwater- Reporting and Permit Process - The Board was looking to standardize the proce ss as more projects were being 
developed.  T. Cole inquired if standard conditions could be provided to an applicant at the beginning of the process to ensure 
the conditions were enumerated on site plans.  As plans are required to be on -site during construction, the contractors would 
have the conditions in front of them versus attempting to locate a copy of the Board’s Decision.  P. Bertram would forward some 
documents from other communities to A. Burney.  The Stormwater Task Force, as part of its mandate, was looking at ways to  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 06.28.2021 
Page 3 
 
fund compliance with the MS4 (Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System) Permi t.  T. Cole requested a joint meeting with the 
Conservation Commission to discuss possible synchronization of the process.   
Standard Conditions for Board Decisions -  The Board was in receipt of draft standard conditions to discuss for incorporation 
into Board Decisions.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Member Lynne Man tendered her resignation from the Committee.  The Board was in receipt 
of a Talent Bank Form for Eric Hinds, 727 West Street, as a potential member.  M. Allison made Motion to appoint Eric Hinds 
to the Open Space Committee, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  M. Allison made Motion to accept the resignation of 
Lynne Man, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.   
 
Master Plan IFB-  Would go out in the Central Register on July 5th. 
 
Potential 40B Development, Howard Street - A. Burney received the site suitability request from the prospective applicant.  A. 
Burney would make the document available for Board perusal.  The Board felt it would be beneficial to have a 40B workshop with 
Town Counsel in attendance.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  Meetings resumed at Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom. 
July 12-  
360 Flat Hill Road, Scenic Road Hearing 
101 Pleasant Hearing Continuation 
Workshop on Standard Conditions and Stormwater 
July 26- 711 Massachusetts Avenue Hearing Continuation 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Allison Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 9:02 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plans: 
    Old Shirley Road/Leominster Shirley Road 
    260 Falulah Road 
    830 Massachusetts Avenue 
    Fire Road 16 
Minutes: 
    06/14/2021 
    06/14/2021, 757 Chase Road 
    06/14/2021, 150 Holman Street 
Standard Conditions, Draft 
 