===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
101 Pleasant Street 
June 28, 2021 
 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:05 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, Matthew Brenner, Erik Torgersen, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Hearing continuation was to hear and review an application under Chapter 325 Subdivision Regulations, Article III, Sec tion 
325-3.4. Definitive Plan of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for a six-lot subdivision consisting of six duplex buildings at 101 
Pleasant Street (Map 095, Parcel 00 03), Lunenburg, MA .  Owner/applicant was MA Pleasant LLC, P O Box 903, Ashburnham, 
MA.     
 
The applicant was represented by David Plunkett, Esq.  Also present w ere Danny Gardner, one of the principals of MA Pleasant 
LLC and Paul Grasewicz, Graz Engineering.  As a result of comments from the April 26 th and May 10 th hearings, the Plan was 
reduced from six (6) to four (4) lots.  No waivers would be requested.  The  road would remain privately owned and there would 
be a homeowners’ association that would maintain the road.  P. Grasewicz noted the road length was reduced to comply with the 
subdivision regulations.  Reviewing engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc., here inafter “GEI”, review letter of June 
28th noted items that still needed addressing; mainly drainage.  There were also review concerns from the DPW D irector that 
needed to b e addressed.  M. Allison questioned the DPW Director requesting 12” catch basin outlet pipes if 8” would be 
sufficient.  A. Burney responded that  in theory, if the road remained private, that would not be an issue.  A. Burney w ould confer 
with the DPW D irector as to his requirement.  The roadway entrance was shifted to the north to allow for curbing and to negate 
impeding the driveway of an abutting property owner.   
 
GEI noted the review letter of June 28 th covered all outstanding concerns.  He did address  the wall height at the drive entrance.  
The exposed retaining wall on the right would be approximately four feet high and on the left, five feet.  He recommended 
guardrails on top of the walls.  In response to M. Allison’s earlier questioning of the 12” p ipes, he noted the closest reference he 
could find was that Section 5. 3.D.(3) of the subdivision regulations called for a minimum diameter of 12 inches for a sub drain.  
(In other communities he usually saw a requirement for 6 inches.)   
 
T. Cole inquired as to the timeclock status on the project.  The extension was recorded with the Town Clerk on May 17 th.  The 
project is currently at 81 days.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 06.28.2021 
101 Pleasant Street 
Pg 2 
 
Greg Bittner, 32 Sandy Cove Road- Inquired if the Board would be  requiring any additional documents, e.g., snow storage in the 
event it would affect drainage.  He also wanted to ensure a financial security would be put in place in the event the Applica nt did 
not complete the work.   
 
Andrea Adams, prior resident of Ple asant Street- Noted her comment letter supplied to the Conservation Com mission on June 
14th.  She had concerns with the homeowners’ association maintaining the roadway, and was of the opinion that maintenance 
could possibly fall on the Town by default.  Regardless, whether private or public, the street would have to meet the requirements 
for a public way.  She suggested a percentage of the sale price of each unit include the beginning of an escrow account for t he 
homeowners’ association.   
 
Attorney Plunkett had a format that he used for homeowner association agreements.  He would forward it on to A. Burney for 
review by Town Counsel.  A continuance was requested to July 12 th.  M. Brenner made Motion to continue the hearing to 
July 12th, 6:35 p.m., P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Hearing recessed 7:34 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Review letter, Graves Engineering, Inc., dtd 06.28.2021 
 
  
 