===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
February 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent: Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance fr om the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  A ll town facilities are  currently closed to the public 
except by appointment .  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on 
the Town’s website COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to 
meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations.  
Ensuring public access does not ensure public partici pation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will 
feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as posted on the  
Town’s website.  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer, go to zoom.us and enter the meeting ID number 
or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 84372266595.  Please note that this meeting is  being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  According ly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:   
Damon McQuaid asked if the Board would consider discussion of a  zoning change allowing for open air front porches to 
encroach upon the 40 foot front yard setback in Residence A,  B, and Outlying  Districts.  Board consensus was to discuss at its 
March 8th meeting.   
 
A. Burney noted that in hopes of more public participation , Green Leaf Botanicals would hold another community meeting on 
March 10 th, 7:00 p.m., via Zoom, Meeting I D # 82840741708.  T. Cole noted at a recent Select Board meeting, Green Leaf 
Botanicals stated it met zoning requirements; T. Cole stressed that was not yet known.   
 
P. Bertram noted that the Water District voted not to expand the District to include the O ’Brien property on Howard Street, but the 
Water Commission would be having a discussion on allowing Mr. O’Brien to install a water supply, e.g. tank, within the 500 feet 
that is in the District .  That supply would serve  all residents within the proposed development.  If the District approved such a 
water supply, how would it affect the Planning Board  permit?  A. Burney opined possibly a modification to review the water 
system within the right-of-way.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 02.22.2021 
Page 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  02/08/21- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission -  The Commission was prepared to recommend its appointment to the Economic Development 
Committee.  This would be an upcoming agenda item.   
TCP Building Design Committee-  The Committee discussed its position for upcoming annual town meeting.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  The Committee c ontinued to review general municipal land.  It is also researching some 
parcels on Lake Shirley for possible lake access.    
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  Bridge repair is on the TIP (Transportation Improvement Program) for 2021.   
 
WORKSHOP: 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Re view of Plans - P. Bertram would like to see low 
impact development (LID) language incorporated into Section 5.   
Chapter 250, Zoning, Section 250 -6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas - 4.1H(3), 4.1H(4), 4.1H(5) and 4.1H(6) w ould 
be combined into one category with parking spaces at two (2) spaces per dwelling unit.  There was discussion of parking for 
childcare facilities with A. Burney recommend ing one (1) space per employee on the largest shift plus one (1) space per five (5) 
children up to twenty (20) and one (1) space per ten (10) children over twenty (20).  Board consensus was one (1) space per 
employee on the largest shift plus one (1) space per five (5) children up to twenty (20) .  T. Cole opined that increased parking 
requirements could possibly have a n adverse effect ; there could be the possibility of an increase in the cost of day care  if a 
homeowner was required to add additional parking .  Discussion would continue.  Board consensus was to try for annual town 
meeting.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  Greenleaf Botanicals Community Outreach Meeting-   See Public Comment above.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
March 8- Hearing, Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits 
March 22- Hearing, 757 Chase Road, North End Subaru 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Adjourned 7:58 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes, 2/8/2021 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans 
Chapter 250, Zoning, Section 250-6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas 