===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
December 13, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Matthew Brenner, Erik Torgersen 
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
101 Pleasant Street - Common Drive - Presentation was given  by Trevor Fletcher, GRAZ Engineering, LLC, on behalf of 
property owner Daniel Gardner dba MA Pleasant, LLC .  The zoning bylaw states that common driveways should be located 
along the common lot line.  The applicant requested the Board allow the use of an alternate location as suggested by the 
Conservation Commission.  The Commission  requested the applicant use  the location of the existing cart road, which would 
reduce the wetlands impact.  An easement would be provided on both side s of the driveway for utilities, drainage, access, etc.  
P. Bertram made Motion to approve the relocation of the common drive with t he condition that the easement be 
structured so as to include maintenance and utilities, M. Allison Seconded .  Discussion- T. Cole expressed an interest in 
seeing the easement language as the proposed drive would be almost fully located  on only one of the properties, with little 
impact to the other property that would be sharing the drive .  P. Bertram noted that the Board’s responsibility was to ensure the 
easement language note the inclusion of maintenance and utilities.  It would be up to the property own ers/buyers to ensure their 
individual protection.  The Motion passed unanimously .  It was noted that the applicant did not provide any  written 
correspondence from the Conservation Commission requesting relocation of the drive.  The Board stressed that in s imilar future 
situations it would like to see a hard copy of the Commission’s request, not just verbal.  
 
43 Summer Street - Uma Flowers - Representing the applicant was Attorney Valerio Romano.  Uma Flowers was awarded a 
Community Host Agreement from Lunenb urg.  The applicant  wanted to discuss the filing of a special permit application with the 
Board without having to obtain further licensing from the Cannabis Control Commission  (CCC).  Attorney Romano’s opinion was 
that a provisional license from the CCC, a s noted in the Zoning Bylaw Section 250 -4.15(F)(11), would not be required for 
submission of a special permit application.   The Board’s purpose in requesting a provisional license was to protect Lunenburg 
from applicants wasting the Board’s time when an applicant may not have the ability to obtain a license f rom the CCC.  The 
applicant had opened a facility in Pepperell, MA and would provide in the application packet, that final license from Pepperell in 
place of obtaining a provisional license.  T. Cole noted that Lunenburg was limited to two retail licenses.  If the Board allowed an 
applicant to move forward with an application prior to completing the process with the CCC, the town  was opening itself up to 
multiple applicants moving through the process at varying stages of the timeline.  A. Burney would submit Attorney Romano’s 
correspondence to Town Counsel for clarification on the ambiguity between Sections 250 -4.15(F)(11) and 250-4.15 (K)(1).  A. 
Burney recommended that for the record the Board take a vote on allowing Uma Flowers to utilize the Pepperell license for its 
provisional license with Lunenburg .  P. Bertram made Motion to allow Uma Flowers to move forward with their special 
permit application, M. Allison Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
324 Flat Hill Road- See separate minutes. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 12.13.2021 
Page 2 
 
Agenda items below taken out of order. 
 
97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road & 440 Mulpus Road - See separate minutes. 
 
DECISION:  Review & Possible Vote to Approv e-  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the Board’s Decision for 3 24 Flat 
Hill Road with Standard Conditions as noted and Special Condition #32.  Construction hours of 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday 
through Friday, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., Saturday, with no construction  on any Sunday or state or federal holiday , M. Allison 
Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    P. Bertram made Motion to approve minutes listed below, M. Allison Seconded, passed 
unanimously. 
11/15/2021 
11/29/2021, 324 Flat Hill Road 
11/29/2021 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
TCP Building Design Committee-   A joint meeting is scheduled for Tuesday December 14 th with the Select Board.  Discussion 
will be on the future of the Committee.   
Agricultural Commission-  A meeting is scheduled for Thursday December 16th.   
Storm Water Task Force-  A meeting is scheduled for Thursday December 16 th.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report.   
Capital Planning Committee-  The DPW presented its requests to the Committee last week.  The Committee is ready to begin 
prioritizing.   
Economic Development Committee-  The Committee discussed its survey and intends to distribute it mid-January.  There was 
also discussion of creating a business guide.   
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-  No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  Water Supply Protection District-  The Board viewed various documents that had been supplied to the 
Water District from the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP).  The documents provided the Water District 
Commissioners with the information needed to satisfy the wellh ead protection conditions specified in the Order to Complete for 
its WMA (Water Management Act) Permit.  The Water District had to demonstrate to DEP that it used its best efforts to have 
Lunenburg establish zoning controls.  One of the documents  the Board  viewed noted items that were/were  not covered in 
Lunenburg’s Water Supply Protection Di strict Bylaw, Section 250 -4.9.  A. Bur ney would work on a new draft Water Supply 
Protection District Bylaw for 2022 annual town meeting.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  Meetings resumed at Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom. 
January 10 
January 24 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Pond View Commons, LLC-  No update 
Master Plan-  No update 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Board members discussed meeting earlier.  I t was n oted that one of th e Board members rarely attends 
meetings.  A. Burney had a discussion with Town Counsel of the process involved to remove the member from the Board, if  the 
Board members felt it was necessary.  The next meeting would start at 6:00 p.m. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Allison Seconded, passed unanimously.  Adjourned 7:41 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
101 Pleasant Street- Request for Approval of Common Drive   Handouts, Water Protection District 
Minutes:       Draft Decision, 324 Flat Hill Road 
    11/15/2021 
    11/29/2021, 324 Flat Hill Road 
    11/29/2021 