===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
January 25, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present  
(arrived 6:50 p.m.); Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent: Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  A ll town facilities are  currently closed to the public 
except by appointme nt.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on 
the Town’s website COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to 
meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations.  
Ensuring public access does not en sure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will 
feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as posted on the  
Town’s website.  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer, go to zoom.us and enter the meeting ID number 
or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 82975717098.  Please note that this meeting is  being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video con ference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  A. Burney noted a community information meetin g would be held by Green Leaf Botanicals , a cannabis 
retail business, on February 4th, 7:00 p.m .; Meeting ID # 5689610481, Password GREENLEAF.  The meeting was required as 
part of the process by the Cannabis Control Commission.  Green Leaf Botanicals foresaw opening a business at 88 
Massachusetts Avenue.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  01/11/21- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  P. Bertram, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.    
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.25.2021 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission-  Committee was updated on revised Charge for the Economic Development Committee.  Discussion 
held on possibility of brick-and-mortar, year-round public market in Lunenburg.   
TCP Building Design Committee-  Committee discussed outside features, e.g. sidewalks, parking.    
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Discussion continued on municipal lands in Lunenburg.   
Capital Planning  Committee-  The Committee prioritized t wenty-three requests for a total of ~$2.5 million.  Prioritization was 
submitted to the Town Manager, who then re-prioritized with a final list of funding for thirteen of the requests for ~$1.5 million.    
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  The 2021 Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) listed a bridge rehabilitation on Route 2A over Pearl Hill Brook.   
 
WORKSHOP: 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans - Board members reviewed and 
discussed the draft of Section 325 -4.0.  P. Bertram would lik e Areas of Critical Environmental Concern added to 4.3.3.17.  
4.3.3.19 would be reworded to specify that any percolation tests would be located on the plan, whether or not requested by the 
Board of Health.  As the following was no longer mandatory under Ti tle V, it would be deleted from 4.3.4.; “All subdivisions shall 
apply to connect to the Town sanitary sewerage system where this system is available and where it is feasible to do so.” .  
Relevant town officials, i.e. police department, fire department, con servation commission, department of public works, water 
district (if project in service area), sewer commission, board of health, and planning department  would be spelled out in 4.3.13 
regarding the preconstruction conference.  Discussion was held on whether or not full size plans would be submitted in a quantity 
adequate for Board member distribution.  T. Cole suggested that while meetings were being held via remote conferencing, 
applicants be requested to provide full size plans for Board members.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits - Discussion of Plan Submission -  See 
WORKSHOP item above.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
February 8 
February 22 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:  CHAPTER 250, ZONING, Section 250-6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas- A. Burney anticipated 
having “Uses” compiled for the next Board meeting.   
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: P. Bertram had the understanding that O’Brien Homes, Howard Street, proposed connection 
to the Water District and questioned if that affected the Board’s approval, which was based on individual wells.  A. Burney 
explained that the applicant might have to modify the Board’s approval to include the water lines ; the construction cost estimate 
would change.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.  Adjourned 7:28 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes:  01/11/2021 
Chapter 325, Section 4.0 Subdivision Regulations, DRAFT  
 