===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
April 12, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance from  the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently open 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
and by appointment outside of those ho urs.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you 
can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 In formation Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage 
allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations.  Ensuring public access does not e nsure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  
This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as 
posted on the  Town’s website .  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and enter the 
meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 87060964250.  Please note that this meeting is  
being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video co nference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks 
may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the 
recording.   
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
319 Highland Street- Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham Associates presented on behalf of his client Kevin Hill.  The applicant 
would like to file an application for a small subdivision with a cul-de-sac, but before doing so, wanted to find out how likely the 
Board would be to grant a radius waiver of less than 25 feet at the intersection of the proposed road and Highland Avenue.  The 
subject property had a frontage of ~84 feet . Typically ~100 feet of frontage would be needed for where the proposed road and 
Highland Avenue would intersect ; that provided for 25 feet on each side of the proposed 50 foot right -of-way.  A property line 
radius waiver could also possibly be requested.  M. Allison was not in favor of granting waivers and suggested the neighbor t o 
the north be approached about a possible access eas ement.  Neither M. Brenner nor P. Bertram was in favor of granting a 
waiver.   
360 Flat Hill Road, ANR Plan - M. Allison disclosed that the subject property was located across the street from his family farm 
and also that he worked with the surveyor that prepared the Plan.  Neither the applicant nor the surveyor was in attendance.  The 
Plan was received and filed with the Town Clerk on 04.05.2021  so it could be continued to the April 26 th Board meeting and still 
be within the statutory 21 days  for Board action.  The Board questioned Lots 7 and 8 with the reduced frontage as the lots at 23 
and 33 Watt Street each had only 80 feet of frontage.  There was also a question regarding possible wetlands at the frontage of  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 04.12.2021 
Page 2 
 
Lots 7 and 8.  It would be up to the Conservation Commission to determine the presence of wetlands  and the Board could not 
disapprove the ANR based on a possible disapproval fro m the Conservation Commission.  T. Cole noted that even though the 
application was originally filed on April 5 th, the applicant submitted a revised plan this date.  T. Cole was of the opinion that the 
revised plan should restart the time clock.  P. Bertram made Motion to continue the ANR Plan to the Board’s next meeting 
of April 26 th, M. Brenner Se conded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote 
passed 4-0.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  Zoning Warrant Articles -  see separate minutes .  M. Brenner made Motion that the Planning Board 
recommend favorably on both artic les and additionally on Article 29 the added calculation under Restaurant Carry -Out 
of 1 space per 3 seats provided (indoor or outdoor).  Article 29 would read- 1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area 
plus 1 space per 3 seats provided (indoor or outd oor) plus 1 space per employee on the largest shift, P. Bertram 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
BRIGHTFARMS: 
Phase 1 Land Development Plan-  Board awaiting review from Graves Engineering, Inc. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   M. Brenner made Motion to approve the minutes of 03/22/2021 and 03/22/2021, North End 
Subaru, T. Cole seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, abstain; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote 
passed 3-0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission-  Meeting scheduled for 04.15.2021.   
TCP Building Design Committee-  Committee member David Passios provided an update due to M. Allison’s absence from the 
Committee meeting.  A doll ar figure for tear -down and rebuild was not available.  The Committee would meet next on April 21 st 
and expected to receive that figure from the engineers/architects prior to the meeting.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -   The President of the Lake Shirley C orp approached the Committee to inquire if the 
Corporation could use 51 Parmenter Road  for its meetings.  It was noted that 51 Parmenter Road is owned by Lunenburg and 
could not be used for private use without a public auction.  Also, the Committee is work ing towards improving public access to 
Lake Shirley and 51 Parmenter Road could be a possibility for that access .  Ownership of 374 Page Street was listed as the 
Conservation Commission, but the Commission was not controlling that parcel  and there was  no t itle for the property .  The 
Commission’s representative to the Committee planned to meet with Town Counsel for discussion  of options for the property .  
The Committee recommended endorsement of the APR Plan (Pierce’s Christmas Tree Farm) for Chase and Northfield Roads.   
Capital Planning  Committee-  The Committee discussed adding two additional prioritized projects to the Plan ; Marshall Park 
Master Plan and acquisition of a DPW vehicle.  The Committee would also  recommend to the Finance Committee that the 
amount to be considered for the capital plan be raised from $10,000 to $25,000.   
Economic Development Committee - The Committee held its first meeting and voted member Cathy Clark as Chair.  The 
Committee would be looking for feedback , via a survey, from local businesses as to how they could be assisted with economic 
development.   
MRPC-  The last meeting contained nothing relevant for Lunenburg.   
MJTC-  The next meeting will be held 04.14.2021.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
925 Massachusetts Avenue, Continued Disc ussion- The Town Manager had been looking for input from the Board as to 
options for the disposal of the property.  Discussions would continue at future Board meetings.  M. Allison’s opinion was that it 
was of no use to the town.   
1079 Massachusetts Avenu e, Brooks House, Use Discussion -  The Architectural Preservation District Commission ( APDC) 
sought advice from the Planning Board on  re-use of the Brooks House.  The Board had previously supplied the APDC with 
details on how to separate the Brooks House of f from the school property.  T. Cole recalled a warrant article in 2019 that allowed 
the Select Board to sell the Brooks House, but keep the land.  He believed that a rticle was not acted upon as the APDC had 
concerns with the future of the Brooks House.  H e went on to mention that he believed there was an article on  the May 2021 
warrant that would make municipal properties exempt from the APDC restrictions.   
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 04.12.2021 
Page 3 
 
A. Burney  noted he was working on a contract based on a $36,000 quote he received from MRPC for two Elements of 
Lunenburg’s Master Plan.    
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
April 26-  
North End Subaru, Chase Road- Hearing Continuation 
101 Pleasant Street- Hearing for a six-lot subdivision 
May 1- Town Meeting, 9:00 a.m.   
May 10 
May 24 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:    P. Bertram observed that no maintenance appeared to have taken place in the detention basin between 
the Brooks House and the library.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Brenner, aye; P. 
Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Adjourned 8:37 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
319 Highland Street, Assessor’s Map 
360 Flat Hill Road, ANR Plan 
Minutes 
  3/22/2021 
  3/22/2021, North End Subaru 
 