===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
101 Pleasant Street 
April 26, 2021 
 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, 
present. 
Absent:  Matthew Allison, Erik Torgersen 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:52 p.m. 
 
The Hearing , via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review an application under Chapter 325 Subdivisi on Regulations, 
Article III, Section 325-3.4. Definitive Plan of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for a six-lot subdivision consisting of six duplex 
buildings at 101 Pleasant Street (Map 095, Parcel 0003), Lunenburg, MA.  Owner/applicant was MA Pleasant LLC, P O Box 903, 
Ashburnham, MA.     
 
The applicant was represented by Trevor Fletcher, Graz Engineering.  The south side of the site was Residence A zoning while 
the north portion was Commercial.  The project would be completely contained within residenti al zoning.  The commercial portion 
would be subdivided off and attached to land on Massachusetts Avenue.  The proposed roadway would remain private with a 
HOA (Home Owners’ Association) created to maintain the road.  Each duplex would be served by an on -site septic system with 
the site being served by town water.  Utilities would be located underground.  There were extensive wetlands throughout the site, 
which affected the roadway design.  There was a wetland crossing at the entrance with water flowing unde r the gravel path via 
three stone wicks.  The roadway would be raised and lined with two retaining walls.  Water would flow under the roadway via 
three 12 inch diameter culverts.  Stormwater would be treated via catch basins, swales, sediment forebay, infi ltration basins and 
a detention basin.   
 
A review letter by Jeff Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc.  (GEI), was issued this date.  As all involved parties had not reviewed the 
letter, GEI did not go through the letter in great detail, but did point out some i tems.  Lots 2, 5, and 6 had paved portions of the 
parking spaces and maneuvering aisle within the 25 foot parking setback.  There was only one streetlight proposed ; at the 
project’s entrance.  Drainage calculations needed to be submitted.  Sight distance e xiting the site needed to be improved.  The 
curb radius at the entrance partially blocked the driveway on the abutting property.  Retaining walls were proposed in the right-of-
way on each side of the proposed roadway; they should be moved outside the right -of-way allowing Lunenburg utilization of the 
shoulder as intended, e.g. possible future utilities, snow storage.  Drainage pipes required at least three (3) feet of cover ; the 
applicant proposed 2.3 feet.  Pre- and post - hydrology maps were not available for review.  Infiltration and detention basins 
needed to provide sufficient access for maintenance equipment.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 04.26.2021 
101 Pleasant Street 
Pg 2 
 
The DPW Director’s review memorandum stressed that the DPW did not have the resources for mainte nance of the project’s 
stormwater collection system.  The O&M  (Operation and Maintenance Plan)  did not specify who would be responsible for 
maintaining the system.  A. Burney explained that an O&M puts forth the process and schedule for the maintenance, bu t would 
not necessarily identify the responsible party.  The O&M Plan needed to be updated and possibly reviewed by Town Counsel.   
 
The requested waivers were listed on the cover page of the subdivision plan; the applicant needed to submit a formal letter  
requesting those waivers and the benefit to the public.   
 
Gregory Bittner, 32 Sandy Cove Road -  Inquired if there would be an affordable housing component with the residential 
subdivision as there would be more than ten (10) units.  A. Burney expanded up on that comment, stating that  under the zoning 
bylaw, any residential development of nine (9) or more units required 10% of the units to be affordable.   
 
For a residential subdivision, a form of financial security would be required with the Town in the ev ent any of the work was not 
completed by the applicant.   
 
Both G. Bittner and representatives of 182 Massachusetts Avenue  voiced concern with the applicant keeping everything open 
and honest.   
 
Andrea Adams- She was representing her mother who resided at  39 Pleasant Street.  She was developing comments on the 
project, to include comments on the roadway.  She opined that the project was significantly encumbered by wetland issues.   
 
G. Bittner- Inquired if there was an active road cut moratorium that would have to be taken into consideration.   
 
The applicant previously stated that the proposed roadway would remain private with a n HOA created to maintain the road.  T. 
Cole inquired if that could be memorialized through the subdivision approval process.  A. Burney maintained that would have to 
be with the agreement of the applicant, but he would also verify with Town Counsel.  P. Bertram questioned if the Board did not 
have the authority to impose the roadway ownership through the approval process, would it b e able to require a different 
stormwater management system from the applicant.  As the development is only twelve (12) units, M. Brenner voiced concern 
with the maintenance coming under an HOA.   
 
The applicant requested three waivers; all three Board memb ers present were not in favor of waivers for new developments  
unless there was a compelling reason.   
 
T. Fletcher asked for confirmation as to whether the 25 foot setback was from the property line or the street line.  A. Burney 
responded that he would request an opinion from the Building Commissioner.   
 
A. Burney recommended the applicant submit justification for the requested waivers and when the Board next met on May 10 th 
they could vote on both the requested waivers and the setback.  This would let th e applicant know if he needed to redesign the 
subdivision. 
 
P. Bertram made Motion to continue the Hearing to May 10, 6:35 p.m., M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
Hearing recessed 8:02 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Definitive Subdivision Plan, dtd 03.22.2021 
Review letter, Graves Engineering, Inc., dtd 04.26.2021 
Memorandum, DPW Director, dtd 04.22.2021 
 
  
 