===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
March 8, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Paula Bertram (stepped away from meeting 8:23 p.m. – 8:32 p.m.), present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent: Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently open 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
and by appointment outside of those hours.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you 
can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage 
allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  
This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as 
posted o n the  Town’s website .  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and enter the 
meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 83006136627.  Please note that this meeting is  
being recorded and t hat some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks 
may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the 
recording.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  A. Burney noted that Green Leaf Botanicals would be holding another community meeting on March 10 th, 
7 p.m., via Zoom.  M. Allison noted Town Caucus would be held March 15 th, 7 p.m., Middle/High School. 
 
ANR Plan:  30 Gilchrest  Street- Plan presented on behalf of property owners Northfield Associates by Gregory Roy, Dillis & 
Roy Civil Design Group.  Property owners wanted to create two additional house lots.  Due to a bordering vegetated wetland the 
owners had a hearing with the Conservation Commission a nd were awaiting an Order of Conditions.  Soil testing was performed 
on all three lots.  The septic system for the existing pool house on proposed Lot 3 would be upgraded and permits for all thr ee 
lots were applied for through the Board of Health.  P. Bertram inquired as to offsets for the existing tennis court on Lot 3.  A. 
Burney responded that it could be considered a pre -existing non -conforming structure; that would require verification with the 
Building Commissioner.  The Board of Health Compliance for m, signed by the Board of Health Agent, stated that “Prior to the 
issuance of a certificate of compliance for the sewage disposal systems for either new lots created; the sewage disposal syst em 
for the existing pool facility will need to be installed and a  certificate of compliance issued for its installation”.  It was determined 
that the rear yard setback for the fence surrounding the tennis court would be five (5) feet as it would qualify as a detached  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 03.08.2021 
Page 2 
 
accessory structure.  M. Brenner made Motion to endorse the ANR Plan, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, 
aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits -  Hearing opened 7:13 p.m.  Hearing 
was to discuss revisions to the Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permits .  Section 4.1f.: revision 
would adjust the submitted number of full size and reduced size plans due to meetings being held digita lly during COVID 19.  Full 
size plans would increase from eleven (11) to eighteen (18) sets and reduced size plans would no longer be required.  This 
would allow Board members to be possession of a full -size copy.  Sections 4.2a. and 4.2b.: full size plans  would increase from 
four (4) to (12) sets, and reduced size would no longer be required.  It was noted that the Board should give thought to upda ting 
its Fee Schedule.  Section 4.1h.Stormwater:  P. Bertram suggested it be updated as there have been instan ces when the Board 
has not required strict compliance with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection Stormwater Management 
Policy Handbook and Technical Handbook.  Section 4.4b.3. it was suggested to pre cede “Drainage” with “minor changes to ”.  
Changes would be made; T. Cole made Motion to continue the Hearing to March 22, 6:35 p.m., P. Bertram Seconded, Roll 
Call Vote-  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.   Hearing recessed 7:30 p.m. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  02/22/21- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, 
aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission-  no report  
TCP Build ing Design Committee -  The Committee d iscussed drafting a letter to the Select Board concerning its Charge. 
Discussion continued on the Committee’s position at annual town meeting.   T. Cole voiced his dissatisfaction with lack of 
progress over the past 5 -10 years and was of the opinion that the Planning Board should be spearheading the process.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report  
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  no report 
 
WORKSHOP:  The two items below were taken in reverse order. 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans - Awaiting input from the Board of 
Health.  Board consensus was to set Subdivision Regulations aside and instead focus on master planning.   
Chapter 250, Zoning, Section 250-6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas - Draft 3 presented to the Board.  The seven (7) 
marijuana categories had been added to the chart.  There was discussion of creating specific standards for the marijuana uses.  
Changes would be made to the categories of bed & breakfast , hotel/motel, private camp, and restaurant carry-out.  Day care 
would also be added to the chart.  The draft would be updated, finalized, and submitted as a warrant article for annual town 
meeting.  A public hearing would be scheduled for the Board’s April 12th meeting.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Greenleaf Botanicals Community Outreach Meeting -   Via Zoom, March 10 th, 7:00 p.m.  Information available on the Town’s 
website.   
Section 250-4.1H(5) Two-Family Dwelling Definition - Previously, to be permitted, two -family dwellings required 1.5 times the 
lot size required for the zoning distr ict in which they were located.  When the Use Table was updated, this requirement was 
accidentally dropped.  A warrant article w ould be submitted for annual town meeting reinserting the requirement.  A public 
hearing would be scheduled for the Board’s April 12 th meeting.   
 
APPOINTMENTS:  Agricultural Commission Recommendation to Economic Development Committee  (EDC)-  The 
Commission unanimously vote d to recommend to the Board that Maryrae Holman be the Commission’s representative to the 
EDC.  EDC composition to date:   Cathy Clark and J aclynn Nicoll (JC)  would be the two Lunenburg residents.  Ex-officio 
members would be Land Use Director Adam Burney, Planning Board member Paula Bertram, Select Board member Tom 
Alonzo, and a yet unknown Lunenburg Business Owner .  M. Allison made Motion to appoint Mary rae Holman to the EDC, P. 
Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 03.08.2021 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
March 22-  
Hearing, 757 Chase Road, North End Subaru 
Hearing (cont’d), Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Adjourned 9:26 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 30 Gilchrest Street 
Minutes, 2/22/2021 
Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans 
Chapter 250, Zoning, Section 250-6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas 