===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Leominster Road - Unitil 
March 14, 2022 
 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  7:39 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Adam Burney 
Paula Bertram and Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted 
during the state of emergency.   
Absent:  Matthew Brenner 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review a request under M.G.L. Ch. 40, Section 15C, Scenic Road Designations and under M.G.L. 
Ch. 87, Section 3, Cutting of Public Shade Trees to remove 21 trees and prune 2 trees along Leominster Road under the Unitil 
Reliability Project.  Owner/applicant was Unitil, 357 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA.    
 
Unitil was represented by Keith Caribo, Manager of Electric Operations, and Dave Clapham, Forestry Supervisor.  Circuit 30W30  
was one of the two circuits that fed Lunenburg; the back side of West Street, down Lancaster Avenue, the center of Lunenburg, 
and down Leominster Road.  To help the reliability of its facilities this project was to re -conductor down Leominster Road to 
Kilburn, Goodrich and over to Lancast er to make a circuit tie.  Once completed, there would be four different ways for Unitil to 
feed its facilities.  One of the roads that would be most impacted would be Leominster Road so D. Clapham took a look at what 
needed to be done for the most reliability and the least impact.   
 
The trees ranged from three inches to thirty plus.  Some of the proposed trees already had contact with the existing power li nes.  
The trees earmarked for removal/trimming had been marked.  Poles would be replaced and lines wo uld be placed three to seven 
feet higher than the current placement.  There would be a one for one replacement, working in coordination with the Tree 
Warden.   
 
M. Allison made Motion to close the hearing, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, a ye; E. Torgersen, aye; 
M. Allison, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Passed unanimously. 
 
Hearing closed 7:52 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Scenic Road Application 
 
 