===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Matthew Brenner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Amanda Reid, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing,  
245 Holman Street 
May 23, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:43 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid Adam Burney 
Adam Burney participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID-19 measures adopted during the state of emergency.   
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing  was to hear and review an application for a stormwater management permit under Chapter 204 of the Code of the Town of 
Lunenburg for six lots at 245 Holman Street . Applicant- Harbor Classic Homes, LLC, Leominster, MA.  Owner- Bray Ave 9, LLC, Leominster, 
MA.   
 
The applicant was represented by Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering.  This was a 10 -acre parcel on the corner of Holman and Northfield  
(aka 245 Holman).  The parcels had been designed for, and received approval from the Board of Health for septic systems.  Lots 1 and 5 would 
be served by a common driveway, as would Lots 3 and 4.  The applicant was meeting all the required MA DEP standards for stormwater 
management except for the peak flow rate.  Lunenburg’s bylaw required 60% total phosphorus (TP) removal and retention of runoff of 1.0 inch.  
Lot 5 was the only Lot that did not meet those requirements as the groundwater level was really high.  Even with rain gardens  the applicant 
could not attain a two foot separation to groundwater.  A waiver was requested for Lot 5 for the 60% TP removal.  A pea stone diaphragm was 
provided for Lot 5.  Water would sheet flow off the driveway, be treated through the pea stone diaphragm and continue to discharge to the west 
and north to an  existing drainage channel.  Lots A, 1, 2, 3 and 4 would each have a pea stone diaphragm and rain garden.   Peer review was 
provided by Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI), Worcester, MA.   
 
M. Allison asked for the overages on not meeting the rates for Lot 5.  Two different points of analysis were used for the site.  There was no 
drainage infrastructure in either Northfield Road or Holman Street .  The majority of runoff from Lots A, 1 and 2 would flow to Northfield Road 
then to the drainage ditch at the southwes t.  Runoff from Lots 3, 4, and 5 would flow to a drainage swale to the north and then to a river.   T. 
Cole asked if there was any alternative to pea stone diaphragm and rain garden for Lot 5 to allow the applicant to meet the groundwater offset.  
B. Marchetti responded the only other solution would be to raise the entire site.  Of concern to the Board were the pre- and post- development 
peak runoff and the waiver request from the 60% treatment of TP on Lot 5.  Also of concern was the project’s proximity to Mulpus Brook 
causing a possible detrimental  effect to Hickory Hills.  B. Marchetti emphasized that it still met both DEP and Lunenburg stormwater 
regulations.  T. Cole remembered doing the ANR Plan and a common drive but did not recall if both common drive s were approved by the 
Board as neither split the lot line.  Both T. Cole and A. Burney recalled the Board approving the common drive for Lots 1 and 5.   Board 
members were interested in viewing the previously Board-endorsed ANR Plan.   
 
M. Allison made Motion to continue the hearing to June 13, 6:05 p.m., M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.   
Hearing recessed 7:51 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Application for Stormwater Permit dtd April 14, 2022 
Review Letter dtd May 23, 2022, Graves Engineering, Inc. 