===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
November 28, 2022 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
TALENT BANK:  Timothy Willsmer of 762 Northfield Road expressed his interest in serving on the Planning Board.  A joint vote 
of the Select Board and the Planning Board was scheduled for the December 6 th Select Board meeting.  
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
680 Reservoir Road- See separate minutes.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the stormwater permit for 680 Reservoir 
Road with Standard Conditions and the addition of two Special Conditions specifying a trash rack on both ends of the 
eight-inch pipe, and any clearing done prior to the recording of the Decision needed to be contained within the 
proposed driveway area, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.    
 
319 Highland Street- See separate minutes.  The engineer, Brian Marchetti, noted that the applicant was anxious to get started.  
Due to the timeline of administrative preparation from Decision endorsement through to the conclusion of the appeal period, the 
owner requested the Board approve  tree cutting whi le the administ rative process was on -going.  M. Brenner made Motion to 
approve the stormwater permit for 319 Highland Street with Standard Conditions  plus a Special Condition of keeping 
the culvert free of debris at the inlet, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  The applicant had retained both 
traffic and civil engineers.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS:   
Master Plan RFP-  Board members discussed the RFP.  Members wanted to find a way to ensure public p articipation outside of 
routine public meetings ; e.g., community events, a variety of activities and advertising methods .  In discussing a “Master Plan 
Committee”, A. Burney suggested a multi-disciplinary committee of interested parties from various boards and at large; this made 
for a more comprehensive process.  This committee would take the provided information, shape it, and then provide it to the 
Planning Board for discussion.  The final outcome would be a document approved at town meeting that boards could use going 
forward to drive policy.  The RFP indicated presentation-ready for 2025 town meeting.  M. Allison suggested the Master Plan 
include hyperlinks to provide readers with  enhanced understanding of various terms.  (A. Burney would add that to th e 
“Deliverables”.)  A. Burney would update the RFP and provide the changes to the Assistant Town Manager.   
Section 250-6.4., Driveways & Entrances- Tabled 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11.28.22 
Page 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the minutes of 11/14/22 and 11/14/22, 260 Falulah Road ; A. 
Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye; passed unanimously.    
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-   No report.  
Agricultural Commission-  No report.   
Capital Planning Committee-  The Committee was working on prioritization.   
Economic Development Committee-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force - The next meeting would be held in January with a report from the DPW Director on how much staff 
time was spent on large stormwater projects.  This would help to determine the annual capital outlay towards stormwater.   
MRPC- No report. 
MJTC-  No report. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEM:  STM Follow-up-  Both zoning articles passed.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
December 6 - with Select Board - This w as be a joint meeting for a vote on the prospective new Planning Board member, 
Timothy Willsmer. 
December 12 
December 26 – NO MEETING 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Zoning Changes to Manage Growth - It was brought up that zoning should be to the rear of a parcel property line rather than a 
random distance from center line.   
Zoning for MBTA Communities - A. Burney needed to fill out a survey for an acti on plan which was scheduled to begin in 
January.   
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
Northfield Road, Parks Commission Property 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; 
M. Allison, aye; passed unanimously.   
 
Meeting adjourned 8:36 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    11/14/22 
    11/14/22, 260 Falulah Road 
Master Plan RFP, Draft 