===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgersen,  Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
         Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
April 25, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:05 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney  
Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the state of 
emergency.   
 
The hearing was to  make alterations to Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA, Chapter 250, Zoning, Article IV Use Regulations, 
Section 250-4.15, Non-medical marijuana establishments, Subsection K (1); to Section 250-4.9, Water Supply Protection District; 
to Article III Establish ment of Districts, Section 250 -3.2, Location of Districts; and to update the Zoning Map to reflect the new 
boundaries of the Aquifer Protection Zones..   
 
The Water District Articles were presented by Fran McNamara, Water District Superintendent.   Due to a well upgrade, MA DEP 
recommended that the water protection bylaws be updated.  
 
ARTICLE 27  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -4.9, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Water Supply Protection District ,” §  250-4.9 Water Supply 
Protection District as shown below, or take any action relative thereto  
 
A. Purpose. The purpose of the Water Supply Protection District is to promote the health, safety and 
general welfare of the community; to protect, preserve and maintain present and potential 
sources of water supply and watershed areas for the public health and safety; to protect, 
preserve and maintain the existing and potential groundwater supply and groundwater recharge 
areas within the Town for public healt h and safety; to preserve and protect the lakes, ponds, 
streams, brooks, rills, marshes, swamps, bogs and other water bodies and watercourses in Town; 
to protect the community from the detrimental use and development of land and water within 
the district; to conserve the natural resources of the Town; to preserve and maintain the 
groundwater table and water recharge areas within the Town; and to prevent blight and the 
pollution of the environment.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.25.2022 
Pg 2 
 
B. District delineation. 
(1) The boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District shall be as follows: Zone I, Zone II, and 
Zone III for the Town of Lunenburg, approved by the Department of Environmental Protection 
(DEP) according to Map 1, entitled "Water Protection District, revised October, 2009 June 2020."  
(2) Where the bounds as delineated are in doubt or in dispute, the burden of proof that the use is 
outside the Water Supply Protection District or does not impact the district shall be upon the 
owner(s) of the land in question. However, the Building Commissioner retains its authority to 
determine final location with regard to said Water Supply Protection District.  
(3) At the written request of the owner(s) of the property in question, the Town may engage a 
professional geologist, a certified soil scientist or a registered professional engineer trained in 
hydrology to determine the location and extent of a protection area on the parcel in question and 
charge the owner(s) of said parcel for the cost of the investigation.  
C. Use regulations. 
(1) The Water Supply Protection District is established as an overlay district to all other districts. 
Land in the Water Supply Protection District shall be subject to the requirements of this section, 
as well as t o all other requirements of this Zoning Bylaw which apply to the underlying zoning 
districts. Uses that are not permitted in the underlying district shall not be permitted in the 
Water Supply Protection Districts.  
(2) Uses permissible in the Restricted Area Zone I by special permit granted by the Planning Board. 
Irrespective of the permitted uses in the underlying district, only the following uses are permitted 
within the Restricted Area Zone I of the Water Supply Protection District, subject to the granti ng 
of a special permit by the Planning Board, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals 
required by local, state or federal law are also obtained, and except as limited by the 
Conservation Commission and/or Lunenburg Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies 
for Public Water Systems, Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water 
Supply, Revised May 1, 1991, as amended: 
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study with prior DEP approval, boating and fishing..  
(c) Raised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths with prior DEP approval and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and other 
water control, supply and conservation devices.  
(e) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing as provided under 
MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure, hazardous materials, 
liquid petroleum products  and other leachable materials are stored within an enclosed structure 
and used in a manner that will not permit groundwater contamination. 
(f) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the pro vision of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 15% of the lot with impervious surfaces. 
(3) Uses permissible in Zone II by special permit granted by the Planning Board. Irrespective of the 
permitted uses i n the underlying district, only the following uses are permitted within Zone II of 
the Water Supply Protection District, subject to the granting of a special permit by the Planning 
Board, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals required by  local, state or federal 
law are also obtained and except as limited by the Conservation Commission and/or Lunenburg 
Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies for Public Water Systems, Department of 
Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water Supply, Revised May 1, 1991: 
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.25.2022 
Pg 3 
 
(c) Raised wooden walkway, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and other 
water control, supply and conservation devices.  
(e) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing as  provided under 
MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure, hazardous materials, 
liquid petroleum products and other leachable materials are stored within an enclosed structure 
and used in a manner that will not permit groundwater contamination.  
(f) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provision of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 20% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
(g) Detached one -family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and subject to the 
provisions of the underlying district, provided that no more than 20% of the required lot area is 
covered with impervious surfaces.  
(h) New detached two-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and if located on a lot 
having an area at least 1 1/2 times that required by §  250-5.1, and provided that no more than 
20% 15% or 2,500 square feet of any lot or parcel, whichever is greater of the required lot area  is 
covered with impervious surfaces, unless a system for artificial recharge of precipitation is 
provided that will not result in the degradation of groundwater quality.  
(i) Maintenance and repair of an existing structure,  provided that there is not an increase in 
impervious surfaces.  
(j) Public utilities and facilities, provided that no adverse impact on surface water or groundwater 
will occur.  
(4) Permitted uses: Zone III. The following uses are permitted within Zone II I of the Water Supply 
Protection District, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals required by local, 
state or federal law are also obtained and except as limited by the Conservation Commission 
and/or Lunenburg Water District as outlined i n Guidelines and Policies for Public Water Systems, 
Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water Supply, Revised May I, 1991, 
as amended: 
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
(c) Raised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and other 
water control, supply and conservation devices.  
(e) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing provided under MGL 
Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure and other leachable 
materials are stored within an enclosed structure and used in a manner that will no t permit 
groundwater contamination.  
(f) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provisions of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 20% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
(g) Detached one -family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and subject to the 
provisions of the underlying district.  
(h) New detached two-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district.  
(i) Maintenance and repair of an existing structure, provided that there is no increase in impervious 
surfaces.  
(j) Public utilities and facilities, provided that no adverse impact on surface water or groundwater 
will occur.  
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.25.2022 
Pg 4 
 
(k) The application of pesticides for nondomestic or agricultural uses, provided that all necessary 
precautions shall be taken to prevent hazardous concentrations of pesticides in the water and on 
the land within the Water Supply  Protection District as a result of such application. Such 
precautions include, but are not limited to, erosion control techniques, the control of runoff 
water or the use of pesticides having low solubility in water, the prevention of volatilization and 
redeposition of pesticides and the lateral displacement of pesticides.  
(l) The application of fertilizers for nondomestic or agricultural uses, provided that such application 
shall be made in such a manner as to minimize adverse impacts on surface water and  groundwater 
due to nutrient transport and deposition and sedimentation.  
(m) Planned residential development, subject to development plan approval and provided that no 
more than 15% of the required lot area is covered with impervious surfaces.  
(n) Those commercial and industrial activities permitted in the underlying district, subject to 
development plan approval to prevent adverse impact on the environment.  
(5) Uses prohibited in the Water Supply Protection District: 
(a) Storage of road salt or deicing chemicals;  
(b) Chemical and bacteriological laboratories;  
(c) Industrial uses which discharge process water, including any commercial or service uses 
discharging wastewater;  
(d) Storage of petroleum or other refined petroleum product except within build ings which will be 
heated by the petroleum or other refined petroleum product; however, nothing in this section 
shall prevent the owner of a tank or tanks existing at the time of adoption of this section to 
replace said tanks, provided there is no increase in capacity;  
(e) Any other use which involves the manufacture, use, storage, transportation or disposal of toxic or 
hazardous materials or generates, treats, stores or disposes of hazardous materials as defined in 
Article II in quantity exceeding 250 220 total gallons of liquid material(s) or 2,000 total pounds of 
solid material(s) at any one time per month.  
(6) Uses prohibited in Zone I and Zone II. The following uses are prohibited in Zone I and Zone II:  
(a) Public or private sanitary landfills, includ ing the deposition of any foreign or nonindigenous 
material upon the land except for normal and accepted agricultural;  
(b) Junkyards or recycling facilities;  
(c) Sewage treatment facilities or sludge and septage storage;  
(d) Commercial car washes;  
(e) Dry-cleaning establishments;  
(f) Metal plating or metal finishing;  
(g) Use of chemicals for deicing unless deemed necessary for public safety by the Board of 
Selectmen;  
(h) The use of septic system cleaners which contain toxic organic chemicals;  
(i) The rendering impervious of more than 15% of a required lot area;  
(j) The disposal of liquid or leachable wastes, except subsurface domestic waste disposal systems;  
(k) Dumping of snow brought in from outside the district;  
(l) The alteration of any natura l site features or topography, including but not limited to the cutting 
or removal of trees or other natural vegetation or the dumping, filling, excavation, grading, 
transferring or removing of any gravel, sand, loam or other soft material, rock or ledge p rior to 
obtaining all permits and approvals for final development plans required by this bylaw;  
===PAGE 5===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.25.2022 
Pg 5 
 
(m) Any use determined by the Planning Board to be detrimental to the purposes of this section of th e 
bylaw;  
(n) Mining of land except as incidental to a permitted use, subject to a special permit granted by the 
Board of Selectmen. In no case shall earth removal extend to a depth within 4 -feet of 
groundwater table. 
D. Conditions for use. 
(1) Each application for a special permit in the Water Supply Protection District shall conform to the 
Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permits, as amended. In 
addition to the submission requirements of the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan 
Approval and Special Permits the following items shall also be included:  
(a) A plot plan showing: 
[1] Location of wetlands, streams, water bodies and floodplain;  
[2] Existing drainage patterns, including direction of surface flow and, if required, subsurface flow;  
[3] Existing soils;  
[4] Soil boring locations and results;  
[5] Existing woodlands;  
[6] Areas having slopes exceeding 15%;  
[7] Areas to be disturbed by construction;  
[8] Areas where earth and other material subject to erosion will be temporarily stockpiled;  
[9] Areas to be used for disposal or storage of construction debris, stones, stumps, etc. if within the 
district;  
[10] Temporary and permanent erosion control measures planned, such as sediment basins, storm 
waste basins, diversions, rip-rap, stabilization seedings, etc.;  
[11] Temporary work roads to be used during projects;  
[12] Locations and size of septic systems;  
[13] Method to contain spillage in fuel filling areas;  
(b) A storm drainage plan showing: 
[1] Locations of drains and culverts and names of streams, rivers, ponds or reservoirs in the Town into 
which they flow;  
[2] Discharge peaks and expected velocities at drain or culvert outlets;  
[3] Conditions above and below outlets and expected flow vehicles;  
[4] Supporting computation for the above;  
(c) A grading plan showing existing topography and planned grade along existing and/or proposed 
street or highway profiles;  
(d) A siltation and sedimentation control plan, including: 
[1] Sedimentation and er osion control structures such as diversions, waterways, slope stabilization 
structures and sediment basins, in sufficient detail to implement their installation together with 
referred standards for soil erosion and sedimentation as appropriate and design c alculations as 
required for each structure;  
[2] Seeding and/or sodding requirements for all exposed areas, including seedbed preparation, seed 
mixtures, lime, fertilizer and mulching requirements with referenced standards;  
[3] Schedule or sequence of ope ration with starting dates for clearing and/or grading, timing for 
storm drain and culvert installations, both temporary and permanent, indicated dates when 
critical area stabilization, paving, seeding, mulching and/or sodding is to be completed;  
[4] General notes for sediment control that spell out the procedures for implementing the plan.  
===PAGE 6===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.25.2022 
Pg 6 
 
(e) A complete list of all chemicals, pesticides, fuels and other potentially toxic or hazardous 
materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated with 
normal household use, accompanied by description of measures proposed to protect such 
materials from vandalism, corrosion and leakage and to provide for control of spills;  
(f) A description of potentially toxic or hazardous wastes to be generated, indicating storage and 
disposal methods;  
(g) Evidence of approval by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering 
(DEQE) of any industrial water treatment or disposal systems;  
(h) For underground storage of toxic or hazardous materials, evidence of qualified professional 
supervision of system design, installation and operation;  
(i) Analysis by a professional engineer in sanitary or civil engineering registe red in the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts certifying compliance with Subsection E below.  
(2) The Planning Board shall transmit one copy of the plan to the Board of Health and one copy to the 
Conservation Commission, one copy to the Fire Department and one copy to the local water 
purveyor for review and comment. The Board of Health and the Conservation Commission shall 
submit a written report to the Planning Board within 14 days.  
(3) Said plan submission shall be submitted to the Planning Board at a regular ly scheduled meeting of 
the Planning Board. 
(a) In case of a use not requiring a special permit, the Planning Board, within 45 days of the receipt 
thereof, shall submit a report to the Building Commissioner. Said report shall summarize the 
Board's findings with regard to the compliance of the plan with the provisions of the Zoning Bylaw 
and any recommendations of the Board to ensure that: 
[1] The proposed use shall comply in all respects with the provisions of the underlying district and 
will promote the purposes of the Water Supply Protection District; and  
[2] The proposed use is appropriate to the natural topography, soils and other characteristics of the 
site to be developed; and  
[3] The proposed use will not, during construction or thereafter, have an adverse environmental 
impact on the aquifer or recharge area; and  
[4] The proposed use will not result in the deterioration of existing groundwater or surface water 
quality, whether or not such water meets established state or federal standards; and  
[5] The proposed use complies with the provisions of § 250-8.3C(2).  
(b) The Board may specify such additional requirements and conditions it finds necessary to protect 
the health, safety and welfare of the public and the occupants of the proposed use.  
(c) The Building Commissioner shall not issue a permit until the report of the Planning Board, or more 
than 45 days shall have elapsed from the time of submittal to the Planning Board without receipt 
of such report, has been submitted to the Building Commissioner.  
E. Limitations upon uses. In addition to the limitations set forth in Article V of this bylaw, all uses 
within the Water Supply Protection District, except for single -family dwelling lots on plans not 
requiring Planning Board approval, shall be subject to the following limitations: 
(1) Safeguards. Provision shall be made to protect against toxic or hazardous materials discharged or 
lost through corrosion, accidental damage, spillage or vandalism through such measures as 
provision for spill control in th e vicinity of chemical or fuel delivery points, secure storage areas 
for toxic or hazardous materials and indoor storage provisions for corrosive or dissolvable 
materials.  
===PAGE 7===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.25.2022 
Pg 7 
 
(2) Location. Where the premises are partially outside of the Water Supply Protection District, such 
potential pollution sources as on -site waste disposal systems shall, to the degree feasible, be 
located outside the district.  
(3) Disposal. For any toxic or hazardous waste to be  produced in quantities greater than those 
associated with normal household use, the applicant must demonstrate the availability and 
feasibility of disposal methods which are in conformance with Chapter 21C of the Massachusetts 
General Laws and all other applicable laws and regulations.  
(4) Drainage. All runoff from impervious surfaces shall be recharged on the site, diverted towards 
areas covered with vegetation for surface infiltration to the extent possible. Dry wells shall be 
used only where other meth ods are infeasible and shall be preceded by oil, grease and sediment 
traps to facilitate removal of contamination.  
(5) Monitor test wells. Where fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides or other potential contaminants are to 
be applied, utilized or stored and in the opinion of the Planning Board are a matter of concern, a 
groundwater monitoring program shall be established before the special permit is granted. Such a 
program shall adequately monitor the quality of the groundwater leaving the site through the us e 
of monitor wells and/or appropriate groundwater sample analyses.  
(6) Natural vegetation. No more than 30% of existing natural vegetation on any lot may be disturbed 
in an underlying residential district, nor more than 50% of existing natural vegetation on any lot 
may be disturbed in an underlying nonresidential district.  
(7) Technical reference. The technical reference to be used to prepare and review plans is 
"Guidelines for Soil and Water Conservation in Urbanizing Areas of Massachusetts," 1977, U.S.D .A. 
Soil Conservation Service, Amherst, Massachusetts. Specific guidelines to use include, but are not 
limited to: 
(a) Limit grading to only those areas actively undergoing current construction;  
(b) The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at one time during development;  
(c) Limit the length of time graded areas are exposed;  
(d) Provide temporary or permanent stabilization of disturbed areas at the earliest opportunity. Limit 
exposure to less than 60 days;  
(e) Retain and protect as much of the natural vegetation as possible;  
(f) Permanent improvements such as streets, utilities, storm sewer, vegetated waterways and other 
features of the development should be scheduled for installation to the greatest extent possible 
before removing the vegetative cover from an area scheduled for building construction;  
(g) Protect all fill slopes and cut slopes exceeding five feet in height from storm run -off through the 
use of diversion berms, drop chutes or other acceptable means;  
(h) Rough-graded rights-of-way awaiting installation of utilities and/or pavement should be protected 
by the installation of interceptor berms across the right-of-way so as to reduce the length of slope 
between berms to not more than 250 feet;  
(i) On sites where the above proced ures are impractical or not acceptable, where the topography 
permits, install sediment basins, desilting basins or silt traps to remove sediment from runoff 
waters.  
(8) Non-point source pesticide contamination. All pesticide use in Zone II shall comply wi th the 
provisions 333 CMR 12.00.  
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Darryel Plante, 490 Lancaster Avenue - He felt that as a property affected by the change, he should have received a notification 
by mail.  It was noted that would require the Board and/or the Land Use Direct or to make a value judgment as to who would be 
affected by a zoning bylaw and should be notified.  Statutory requirements were followed for zoning bylaw hearings.  D. Plante 
opined there should be compensation for property owners whose property was affecte d.  T. Cole clarified that even though this 
was a zoning article, it was coming through the Water District from DEP.   
 
===PAGE 8===
 
 
ARTICLE 28. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -3.2, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw ent itled “Location of Districts,” by deleting “May 3, 2008” as the date 
of the map referenced therein and substituting  November 16 “May 7, 20221” therefor, and by adopting 
said revised map, a copy of which is on file with the Town Clerk, as the Town’s officia l zoning map; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)  
 
§ 250-3.2 Location of districts.  
Said districts, except Floodplain Districts, Water Supply Protection Districts, the Route 2A Overlay 
District, Whalom Overlay Dis trict, and Tri -Town Smart Growth District, hereinbefore referred to are 
located and bounded as shown on a map entitled "Revised Protective Bylaw Map of the Town of 
Lunenburg, Massachusetts," dated May 3, 2008 May 7, 2022, signed by the Planning Board and filed with 
the Town Clerk, which map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, shall be deemed to 
accompany and be a part of this bylaw. The Floodplain District location is described in §  250-4.8B, 
Water Supply Protection District is described in §  250-4.9B, Route 2A Overlay District is described in 
§ 250-4.10, Lake Whalom Overlay District is described in §  250-4.12B, Tri-Town Smart Growth District is 
described in § 250-4.13, and Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District is described in § 250-4.14B. 
A. Burney recommended if the Water District bylaw did not pass at Town Meeting, the Board should pass over the zoning map 
update as the update was related to the Water District bylaw.   
 
ARTICLE 26 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenbu rg, Chapter 250, a.k.a. the Protective 
Bylaw, Section 4.15, entitled “Non -medical marijuana establishments,” Subsection K, entitled “Special 
permit procedure,” by deleting Item (1) therefrom in its entirety, which presently reads:  
(1) Applicant shall submit pr oof of approval from the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts for the proposed Marijuana Establishment by submitting copies 
of all required registrations, licenses and permits issued to the applicant by the 
state and any of its agencies for the facility as well a s Host Community 
Agreement (HCA) with the Town and approval hereunder shall be conditioned 
on final approval from the Commonwealth. 
and by substituting therefor the following: 
(1) An applicant shall submit a copy of its Host Community Agreement (HCA) with 
the Town, authorizing its development of a Marijuana Establishment on the site 
subject to receipt of applicable permits; as well as copies of all registrations 
and licenses, if any, issued to the applicant by the Commonwealth or any of its 
agencies for operati on of a Marijuana Establishment on the site.  Licensure by 
the Commonwealth is not a prerequisite to application submittal; provided, 
however, that commencement of use of or construction under a special permit 
is and shall be conditioned upon issuance of a ll requisite provisional licenses 
and approvals under applicable law.  Final licensure of the Marijuana 
Establishment shall be required before commencement of operations.  
 
The above Article was prepared by Town Counsel and clarified the permitting process.    
 
P. Bertram made Motion to close the hearing, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - M. Brenner -aye; P. 
Bertram-aye; M. Allison-aye; E. Torgersen-aye; T. Cole-aye.  The Motion passed.  Hearing closed 7:04 p.m. 
 