===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
December 12, 2022 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Brenner, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney 
Matthew Allison and Amanda Reid participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Lynne Man , Burrage Street - She was interested in knowing the Board ’s viewpoint on land clearing for 
solar development within Lunenburg.  She noted the three solar locations , allowed by right, listed in the solar  energy systems 
bylaw.  One of those was the capped landfill, but the other two locations were, in her opinion, in forested lands.  She also wanted 
a better understanding of the permitting process for solar fields.  She noted there was a housing project being developed dow n 
the street from her and felt that would be a perfect  opportunity for the town to promote heat pumps , rooftop solar, i.e., clean 
energy.  She mentioned her involvement with the Sierra Club which advocate d clean energy.  Board consensus was to place the 
item on the January 23rd agenda for discussion.   
 
ANR PLAN:  Parcel 3, 255 Sunny Hill Road - Ed McSweeney, represented the buy er MN 122 Main, LLC.  The property owners 
had put the property up for sale.  According to the assessor ’s maps, it was 31.23 acres .  In doing due diligence for the purchase, 
it was determined the property was 29.89 acres; Parcel 1 being 4.30 acres, Parcel 2- 24.25 acres, and Parcel 3- 1.34 acres.  
This was 1.30 acres short of the assessors ’ identification of 31.23 acres.  That needed to be corrected for  MN 122 Main, LLC, to 
take ownership of the land.  25.59 acres were classified Chapter 61B (Parcels 2 and 3), with 4.30 acres (Parcel 1) excluded from 
Chapter 61B.  1.34 acres (Parcel 3) needed to come out of Chapter 61B and be combined with the non -chapter land of 4.3 0 
acres (Parcel 1); this would provide enough acreage for three buildable lots.  Once the ANR Plan was end orsed at this meeting, 
MN 122 Main LLC would appear before the Select Board at its December 13 th meeting.  The right-of-first-refusal process was 
required to adjust the lien for the 25.29 acres, classified as Chapter 61B.  Once that was accomplished, MN 122 Main LLC would 
come back before the Planning Board with an ANR Plan for the three buildable lots.  M. Allison made Motion to approve the 
ANR Plan for 255 Sunny Hill Road, T. Willsmer Seconded, roll call vote -  M. Allison, aye; A. Reid, aye; T. Willsmer, aye; 
M. Brenner, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
REQUEST FOR DE MINIMIS CHANGE:  Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster  Shirley Road - Presentation made by Bill 
Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering.  Three items were submitted for de minimis change. 
1.  Excess Fill Materials -  During construction, fill materials were discovered at de eper elevations than anticipated.  This 
resulted in an excess of fill materials on the property .  Instead of hauling the excess material off site, the truck storage 
area at the site rear was reconfigured and the berm extended to accept the majority of the fill material.   
2. Accessible Spaces-  Originally there was parking at both the north and south ends  of the building .  Three accessible 
spaces were added to the east side of the building.  These were added in the event there were multiple entrances to 
the building.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 12.12.22 
Page 2 
 
3. Northeast Parking Reconfiguration- There was some grading adjustment in the northeast corner of the building.  As the 
footing was designed with a thicker section, this brought the top of the footing close to existing grade.  This resulted in 
issues with the layout and grading of the sidewalks and parking to be able to provide frost protection.   The parking and 
sidewalks in that area were reconfigured and grading raised ~10 inches.   
The requested changes were provided to peer reviewer, Jeff Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc.  His 12/12/22 review letter 
indicated he had no issues with the changes.  M. Allison made Motion to accept the request for de  minimis changes for 
Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster Shirley Road, T. Willsmer Seconded, roll call vote - M. Allison, aye; A. Reid, aye; T. 
Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye.  Passed unanimously.     
 
DECISIONS & PLANS: 
680 Reservoir Road- Review & Endorsement- Board reviewed and endorsed. 
319 Highland Street- Review & Endorsement- Board reviewed and endorsed. 
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  Next Zoning Board of Appeals  
continuation set for December 14th.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Master Plan RFP- The changes discussed at the last Board meeting were incorporated and forwarded on to the Assistant Town 
Manager.  It was anticipated that bids would be returned by early January.   
Section 250- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances- Tabled 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Allison made Motion to approve the minutes of 11/28/22; 11/28/22, 680 Reservoir Road; and 
11/28/22, 319 Highland Street ; A. Reid Seconded, roll call vote - M. Allison, aye; A. Reid, aye; T. Wills mer, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-   No report.  
Agricultural Commission-  No report.   
Capital Planning Committee -  The Committee continued to work through the process to get final numbers to the Town 
Manager.    
Economic Development Committee-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC- The Commission talked about grants for surrounding communities.   
MJTC-  No report. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEM:  None 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
December 26 – NO MEETING 
January 9 
January 23 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Zoning Changes to Manage Growth 
Zoning for MBTA Communities 
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 12.12.22 
Page 3 
 
Northfield Road, Parks Commission Property - A tech review meeting was held this d ate with Lufa Farms , an agricultural 
company that plan ned on building an indoor cultivation facility behind Hannaford off Massachusetts Avenue.   The Parks 
Commission hoped that Lufa Farms would allow an access easement to town property located on Northfield Road.  A. Burney 
stated that was an ongoing discussion. 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  M. Allison noted that the area surrounding drop-off bins at WalMart had been cleaned up.  A. 
Burney responded that cameras had been installed. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Allison made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, roll call vote - M. Allison, aye; A. Reid, aye; T. 
Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye, Passed unanimously.    
 
Meeting adjourned 7:00 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 255 Sunny Hill Road 
Decisions: 
    319 Highland Street 
    680 Reservoir Road 
Minutes: 
    11/28/22 
    11/28/22, 680 Reservoir Road 
    11/28/22, 319 Highland Street 
Master Plan RFP, Draft 
475 Leominster Shirley Road, Request for De Minimis Change 