===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Matthew Brenner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Amanda Reid, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
260 Falulah Road 
May 23, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  7:52 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid 
Adam Burney participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the state of 
emergency.   
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review application s for site plan approval and stormwater management permit under Chapter 250 
Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for construction of a 367,000 sq. ft. warehouse 
and distribution building on Airport Road/Crawford in Fitchburg, MA, with a portion of the development extending into Lunenburg 
at 260 Falulah Road.  Owner - Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority, Fitchburg, MA.  Applicant -  Fitchburg Land Property Owner, 
LLC, Boston, MA. 
 
Christopher Anderson, Hannigan Engineering, represented the applicant.  The property was currently vacant land.  Access to the 
site would be on the Fitchburg side from Crawford Street/Airport Road.  There would not be any tie -ins to Lunenburg roads.  
There would be two a ccess points with one of them being specifically for trucks  and the other for employees and pedestrian 
vehicles.  Stormwater was split between two systems.  One in Fitchburg on the westerly side of the building consisting of two 
infiltration basins designed to accommodate the flow from ¾ of the site.  The second system consisted of underground storage 
systems and infiltration basins directing flow to the southerly entrance (truck entrance).  Sewer and water w ould be provided by 
Fitchburg.   
 
It was noted that a review letter from Graves Engineering, Inc. was received this date.  The Plan would be revised to address the 
review comments.  This evening’s hearing was for a basic introduction of the proposed project to the Board and members of the 
public.   
 
M. Allison made Motion to continue the Hearing to July 11, 6:05 p.m., M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
Hearing recessed 8:06 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Applications for Site Plan Approval & Stormwater Permit dtd April 19, 2022 
Review letter dtd May 23, 2022, Graves Engineering Inc. 