===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Matthew Brenner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Amanda Reid, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
43 Summer Street 
June 27, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:49 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
Tanner Cole participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the state of 
emergency 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review application s for site plan approval and  permits under Chapter 250 Sections 8.4., 4.15. and 
4.8. respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg for an adult-use marijuana facility.   
 
The applicant, Uma Flowers, was repres ented by Attorney Valerio Romano.  Also in attendance were co -founders of Uma 
Flowers, Priyanka Patel and Tejal Patel ; project engineer Ian Ainslie, Meisner Brem Corporation (MBC) ; and various Uma 
Flowers representatives on-line.  The proposal was for an a dult-use marijuana retail facility.  MBC revised the plans to address 
any issues per  the June 24 th peer review letter from Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI).  The principal building was approximately 
4,200 sf and in use as a restaurant/tavern.  A secondary ac cessory building on site was used as a residence.  In order for the 
project to be approved, the use of the  residential building would be discontinued.  There were two existing curb cuts on Summer 
Street and one on Youngs Road.  All curb cuts would be two -way.  Portions of the existing parking and principal building 
encroached onto the Summer Street Right of Way.  Approximately 9,000 sf of on -site pavement would be removed.  This would 
remove the encroachment on Summer Stree t and improve traffic circulation.   A perennial stream was located on the east side of 
the site.  MBC would create more of a buffer to the existing brook through plantings.  The majority of the paved area drained  east 
towards the stream.  The grade rose to create a ridge before dropping of f to the stream; therefore, the end result was runoff 
becoming trapped and ponding near the eastern edge of pavement.  In addition to reducing pavement an infiltration trench woul d 
be constructed in the area where the ponding occurred.  Uma Flowers planned to abandon the use of the accessory building.  If 
they chose to utilize the building in the future, they would return to the Board.  A security plan was submitted to the Police Chief 
for review.  Hours of operation would be 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Friday and 
Saturday, and 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Sunday.  Uma Flowers met with the Fire Chief who requested a Knox Box.  Both the 
Fire and Police Chiefs would have keys for access to the facility.  T. Cole aske d if the Board needed to approve any signage.  
There was an existing sign along Summer Street which would be refaced for the new business.  Product delivery would be made 
to the side door of the facility.  The delivery individual would be escorted to the r eceiving vault by an Uma Flowers employee.  
Once the delivery was accounted for , the driver would be escorted back to the exit door.  The dispensary would occupy 
approximately 2,900 of the 4,200 sf building.  The remainder of the building would be vacant.  Parking calculations were based  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 43 Summer Street 
Pg 2, June 27, 2022 
 
on the 2,900 sf of usage.  The Board had concerns with not knowing the possible future use of the  remaining square footage in 
the principal building and the vacant residenti al structure.  The applicant was applying for three permits: a Special Permit for the 
use, a Special Permit for work within the Floodplain Overlay District, and Site Plan Approval.  The Board could condition tha t 
future development return for permitting as  the approval would be restricted to the cannabis retail establishment only, and A. 
Burney was of the opinion that it could also be noted  the establishment was permitted under the Commercial District and that 
would provide future information to Boards assessing future applications that they be made under that same zoning district.   
 
Linda Morin, 151 Youngs Road- She voiced concern with an unknown potential future commercial use of the two vacant spaces.   
 
Attorney Romano requested a continuance to the Boa rd’s July 11 th meeting.  M. Brenner made Motion to continue the 
hearing for 43 Summer Street to July 11, 2022, 6:05 p.m., A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, 
aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.  Hearing recessed 8:09 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Applications for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits dtd May 2, 2022 