===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Vacancy 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
August 22, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation  (departed 6:40 p.m.) 
 
Agenda items below were taken out of order 
 
BOARD VACANCY: 
Reorganization-  
Chair- M. Brenner made Motion to nominate M. Allison as C hair, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote - A. Reid, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
Vice Chair - A. Reid made Motion to nominate M. Brenner as Vice Chair, E. Torgersen Seconded, Roll Call Vote - E. 
Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
Clerk- M. Brenner made Motion to nominate A. Reid as Clerk, E. Torgersen Seconded, Roll Call Vote - E. Torgersen, aye; 
M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Due to the Board representative vacancy left by the previous Board Chair, M. Brenner made 
Motion to nominate M. Allison to the Committee, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote - E. Torgersen, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
43 Summer Street-  See separate minutes.   
Review of Decision and Endorsement - The Board reviewed the draft Decision.  Construction hours were set of 7 a.m. to 5 
p.m. Monday through Friday and 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Satur day.  M. Brenner made Motion that the Board approve the Site Plan 
Approval, Special Permit Floodplain alteration, and Special Permit for non -medical marijuana retail establishment for 43 
Summer Street to include Conditions as read, A. Reid Seconded, Roll C all Vote- E. Torgersen, aye; M. Brenner, aye; A. 
Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
260 Falulah Road - The applicant, via electronic communication, requested a continuance to September 26, 2022.   The 
continuance was requested as the applicant wa s awaiting completion of the Fitchburg Planning Board’s peer review.  M. 
Brenner made Motion to continue the hearing for 260 Falulah Road to September 26, 2022, 6:05 p.m., A. Reid Seconded, 
Roll Call Vote- E. Torgersen, aye; M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 8.22.2022 
Page 2 
 
BOARD DISCUSSION:  Section 250 -6.4., Driveways & Entrances - Board members were in possession of materials for 
review.  A. Burney noted in the Use Table that motels were by right in the Comme rcial District and he believed the Board would 
prefer motels to be by special permit.  The subject would be added to the next Board agenda.  Common driveways were by right 
in Lunenburg if it met the stated criteria.  As A. Burney researched surrounding com munities, he found many required special 
permits for common driveways.  The Board needed to find a balance of w hat it felt was reasonable.  If it chose to continue with 
the by right, it could incorporate more specificity into the construction.  Over the past few years, common driveways in Lunenburg 
caused more trepidation than benefit.  Would the Board be open to more than two lots on a common driveway?  A. Burney 
pointed out that a fee could be set for common driveways.  Discussion would continue at future  Board meetings.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   M. Brenner made Motion to approve minutes of 7/25/22 and 7/25/22, 245 Holman Street, A. Reid 
Seconded, passed unanimously.   
7/25/22- 
7/25/22, 245 Holman Street- 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  Nothing major to report. 
Agricultural Commission-  The Commission hoped to work with the Conservation Commission on the holding of land.   
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC- No report. 
MJTC-  No report. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Zoning Infrastructure Committee Meeting- No report. 
Special Town Meeting- November 15, 2022- The Warrant opens August 23. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
September 12- 
September 26- 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities- Karen Chapman from MRPC will speak to the Board at its September 12 th meeting to help the 
Board move through the process. 
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan- No report. 
Pond View Commons, LLC- The application was filed with the Town on August 18th.   
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  M. Brenner commented on the outstanding quality of the new trail signs.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, passed unani mously.  Adjourned 7:33 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    7/25/22 
    7/25/22, 245 Holman Street 