===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Clerk   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Erik Torgersen, Member    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Amanda Reid, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Vacancy 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
43 Summer Street 
August 22, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:05 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney  
Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation  
 
The Hearing  continuation was to hear and review application s for site plan approval and  permits under Chapter 250 Sections 
8.4., 4.15. and 4.8. respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg for an adult-use marijuana facility.   
 
The applicant, Uma Flowers, was represented by Attorney Valerio Romano.  Also attending remotely were co-founders of Uma 
Flowers, Priyanka Patel and Tejal Patel; project engineer Ian Ainslie, Meisner Brem Corporation (MBC) ; and various Uma 
Flowers representatives.  The proposal was for an adult -use marijuana retail facility.  There were no outstanding issues for the 
Board.  An Order of Conditions had been issued by the Conservation Commission.   The Board’s questions surrounding the 
possibility of any additional cannabis business es at the location had been addressed at the initial hearing  on June 27, 2022.  
Questions regarding delivery of product and removal of cash had been answered.  The Security Plan had been approved by the 
Police Chief.  Attorney Romano interjected that both the Fire and Police Chief requested that the Knox Box have an alarm.  The 
applicant held th e required community meeting and had a signed Host Community Agreement with the Select Board.  The 
applicant satisfied all requirements of the bylaw for submission of the application.   
 
An opportunity for public comment was provided; there was none. 
 
M. Brenner made Motion to close the hearing for 43 Summer Street, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote - A. Reid, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Hearing adjourned 6:20 p.m. 
 
 