===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
680 Reservoir Road 
November 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:05 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review  an application for stormwater management permit under Chapter 204 of the Code of the 
Town of Lunenburg  for a single-family home at 680 Reservoir Road.   The applicants/owners were David and Leigh Sarnoski, 
1312 N. Main Street, Lancaster, MA.     
 
Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering,  represented the applicant s/owners.  The property consisted of ~11.5 acres ; there wo uld 
be approximately 1.7 acres of disturbance.  Due to wetlands, the house was situated in the upland area and towards the rear of 
the parcel.  They would stay out of the 30 foot no -touch zone, except for by the street as wetlands restrict the frontage.  With 
pavement and ~8,000 square feet of driveway, total impervious was ~1/3 acre.  The impervious area was pitched to the south  
and a peastone diaphragm would run along the south side of the driveway.  There w ere two rain gardens on site; one near the 
street and the other back towards the house.  The rain gardens discharge d to the adjacent resource area.  The natural flow w as 
towards the street to a culvert that crossed under Reservoir Road.   
 
The Board was in receipt of a review letter from Jeffrey Walsh, P.E., Graves Engineering, Inc.  (GEI).  The letter indicated no 
issue with compliance to  stormwater requirements of Section 204.  There would be a slight increase in the post -development 
runoff rates.  The front yard was raised for the septic system, which GEI stated would cause further flood storage on the abutting 
property (owned by the Conservation Commission).  The Plan was revised to add a drainage pipe running north to south for a 
flow path.  GEI issued a follow-up review letter shortly before the meet ing in which J. Walsh stated that the Plan was revised to 
include an eight-inch diameter drainage pipe to maintain the existing flow path.   
 
Due to the length of the north -south drainage pipe, M. Brenner asked about possible clogging over the coming years .  B. 
Marchetti responded that the pipe was completely on private property and maintenance was the responsibility of  the property 
owner.  The Board requested a  trash rack (grate -like structure) be installed on either end to prevent large debris from enteri ng 
and clogging the pipe.  Maintenance would be covered in the O&M Plan.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 11.28.22 
680 Reservoir Road 
Page 2 
 
The owner was anxious to get started.  Due to the timeline of administrative preparation from Decision endorsement through to 
the conclusion of the appeal period, the owner requested the Board approve timbering to bring in materials  while the 
administrative process was on -going.  F or access, the applicant would stump the length of the proposed driveway.  Under the 
Zoning Bylaw, this was not supposed to start until the Decision had been filed.  The rain garden proposed at the drive entrance 
would be used as a temporary settling basin.  Board consensus was to allow the applicant to move forward with timbering.  
 
Two Special Conditions would be added to the Decision; the trash rack and the extent of clearing.   
 
M. Brenner made Motion to close the hearing for 680 Reservoir Road, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote - A. Reid, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously. 
 
Hearing closed 6:37 p.m. 
 
Documents used at hearing: 
Site Plan dtd 10.31.22, Revised to 11.28.22 
Review Letter dtd 11.28.22, Graves Engineering, Inc. 