===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
88 Massachusetts Avenue 
October 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:22 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing  was to hear and review  an application for site plan approval under Chapter 250 Section 8.4. of the Code of the 
Town of Lunenburg  for a use of shopping center as granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals at 88 Massachusetts Avenue .  
Applicant/Owner- Anavasi, LLC, 28 Clement Road, Townsend, MA. 
 
Gregory Roy, Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group , represented the applicant.  The applicant had previously received a change of use 
special permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals.  The Zoning Board of Appeals special permit was to divide the space from the 
current three tenant spaces into a total of five tenant spaces , which changed the use to a “shop ping center”.  (A shopping center 
was more than three uses on a site in a building greater than 5,000 square feet. )  Two tenant spaces were currently in use.  At 
the time of this hearing there was not a specific use defined for the larger space.  The appli cant had difficult y marketing the 
spaces and was looking for approval of a use allowed by right in the district to make the property more marketable.  A site plan 
was presented that maximized the number of parking spaces on site.  The large curb cut would be consolidated into a specific 
ingress/egress.  As a result, some parking spaces could be created along the frontage.  Employee parking would be located at 
the rear of the site.  The property line on the northeast side cut through a portion of the parking .  ( Through a land lease, t here 
was an easement conveyed with the property.)  With this application, parking was placed on only the applicant’s property.  There 
were currently three leasable spaces with two in use.   The former Grant Rental unit was larger than any single tenant want ed to 
lease; therefore, the applicant wanted to divide that into two or three units to appeal to a variety of tenants.   
 
M. Brenner was concerned with the snow storage indicated along the frontage of the site.  The Board would condition the height 
and location of the snow storage.   
 
The following waivers were requested from Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, Section 4.0:  
Section 4.1 f. 8), Existing and proposed utilities in adjacent streets. 
Section 4.1 f. 9), Existing and proposed on-site structures and all buildings within two hundred (200’) feet of the property lines.  
Section 4.1 f. 10), Existing and proposed driveways and driveway openings within three hundred (300’) feet of the property li nes. 
Section 4.1 f. 16), Existing significant trees (6 ” trunk width at 4’ above ground level)  or vegetation.  Proposed landscaping and 
screening, indicating distinctions between proposed and retained vegetation.  
Section 4.1 f. 17), On-site existing and proposed potable water, drainage and sewerage systems. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 10.24.22 
88 Massachusetts Avenue 
Pg 2 
 
Section 4.1 f. 22), A photometric map showing on-site foot-candle information. 
Section 4.1 f. 23), Architectural elevations with proposed façade material, perspective views that demonstrate the project relation 
to the surrounding parcels and str eet, and floorplans.  These documents shall be completed and stamped by a Registered 
Architect.   
Section 4.1 h. Impact Reports, Impact Reports for each development w ill be required to accompany site plans and shall address 
traffic, public services and fiscal impacts, environmental impacts, community impacts and any effect upon adjoining propertie s.   
 
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street - He recalled that when this site was last before the Board, it was voted for the applicants to 
“expand their horizons” to get more tenants.  He opined that this was a repeat of what had already been accomplished.  A. 
Burney clarified that the Board had not seen th is applicant since ~2019 when the Board was approached with a tentative parking 
plan.  The applicants went to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a special permit for use.  When the Zoning Board of Appeals 
approved the use, it was for a conceptual idea that the use would be acceptable  and not have negative effects on the 
neighborhood.  D. Rodgers then questioned the possible approval of the waivers without the Board knowing the end use by the 
tenants.  A. Burney clarified that the waivers were for the site plan approval process.  Most of the requested waivers involved the 
building infrastructure; the building ha d been in existence for  a number of years.  A. Burney stressed that any individual tenant 
use would require both a building permit and an occupancy permit.   
 
M. Brenner made Motion to close the hearing for 88 Massachusetts Avenue, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
Hearing closed 7:13 p.m. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Application for Site Plan Approval dtd September 27, 2022 
Site Plan, 88 Massachusetts Avenue 