===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
April 10, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen  
 
FLAT HILL ROAD & WATT STREET, Tri Party -  Two sureties [Lots 7 and 8 (21 and 19 Watt Street respectively)] were signed 
by the Board at the March 27 th meeting.  Upon reaching out to the financial institution, A. Burney discovered that it did not 
provide that service.  The sureties had to be re -signed with a different financial institution.   In addition to the two no ted sureties, 
the Board also signed a surety for 360 Flat Hill Road.   
 
ANR PLAN:  603 Massachusetts Avenue - The applicant Stephen Xarras, 21 Beal Street, was represented by Greg Roy, Dillis 
and Roy.  Both the house and the existing driveway for 21 Beal Street encroached onto 603 Massachusetts Avenue.  Parcel A 
was deeded from 603 Massachusetts Avenue to 21 Beal Street to correct the issue.  M. Brenner made Motion to endorse the 
ANR Plan for 603 Massachusetts Avenue, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.    
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS:  
383 Whalom Road -  See separate minutes.  M. Allison had concerns that the fence to the property rear was on the Town’s right -
of-way, but it was clarified by A. Burney that Dana Street was a private way.  Conditions of the Decision were discussed.  
Construction hours would be 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 8:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. Saturday.  The following 
Special Conditions were added to the usual Conditions.  
• The sump pump would not discharge into Dana Street; any discharge would be done on -site.   
• The applicant will install a berm along the property line with the property to the north as depicted on the site plan 
referenced above.   
• All snow storage will remain on -site and will not cover or interfere with utilities, traffic control, or fire hydrants located 
within the right-of-way.   
• All parking of vehicles will be done on the applicant’s property and will not extend beyond the property line.   
• The applicant will not have more than 18 vehicles for sale on -site at any time.   
• The applicant will provide striping for a minimum of 9 parking spaces inclusive of the required ADA compliant parking 
space.   
M. Brenner made Motion to approve the site plan approval for 383 Whalom Road with Standard Conditions as well as 
Special Conditions discussed above , A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
759 & 763 Northfield Road - See separate minutes.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the tree removal request per the 
scenic road plan for 759 and 763 Northfield Road, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously .  A Decision would be prepared 
for Board approval. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 4.10 .23 
Pg 2 
 
Zoning Warrant Article - See separate minutes.  M. Brenner made Motion to recommend approval of the article, A. Reid 
Seconded, passed unanimously.  
 
DECISIONS: Review & Endorsement - 
5 Summer Street - Reviewed and endorsed by Board.  
383 Whalom Road - Reviewed and endorsed by Board.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS:  
Solar Bylaw 
Section 2 50- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL :  M. Brenner made Motion to approve all minute s listed below, A. Reid Seconded, passed 
unanimously.   
3/27/23 
3/27/23, 5 Summer Street  
3/27/23, 383 Whalom Road  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -   No report  
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee -  No report   
Agricultural Commission -  The Commission recommended approval to the Select Board of a new member and an alternate.    
Capital Planning Committee -  No report  
Economic Development Committee -   No report  
Storm Water Task Force -   No report  
MRPC- Last meeting was a general discussion of projects in abutting communities.   
MJTC-  No report  
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEM S:   
Master Planning Services , Update -  Contracts were signed and executed for the consultant hiring of OverUnder.  A. Burney 
had a brief meeting with Rami el Samahy, AICP, Principal, last week.  They discussed general scheduling/kickoff.  The firm 
intended to come to Lunenburg mid -May for a tour of the Town.  The Board anticipated a public forum in early -June.  A. Burney 
suggested to the Board that he be the main contact person, meeting with the firm  every other week  and providing updates to the 
Board at its regular meetings.   He inquired if the Board wanted to form a Master Planning Committee or would the Planning 
Board take on that role .  The Committee would probably meet monthly/every 6 weeks  to review information from OverUnder and 
then provide response to OverUnder.  M. Allison brought up the possibility of adding a third Board meeting monthly dedicated to 
master planning.  If a Committee was formed, A. Burney recommended it consist of 7 -9 individuals, e.g. two Planning Board 
members, representation from the S elect Board, Council on Aging,  Parks Commission, Finance Committee and citizen -at-large.  
The Board was in favor of the formation of a Master Planning Committee.  At the next Board meeting A. Burney would provide 
the Board with a proposed structure  of the Committee .   
ATM May 6 – Zoning Article Update - See hearings noted above.   
Aquifer Protection District - At annual town meeting May 2022 the Board had proposed some changes to the District (this was 
at request of the Water District due to a DEP update).  Th at article did not pass.  At that time some residents of Hickory Hills  
Lake (located in Zone I) asserted  that if the article passed, the Board would be over -regulating what they could do on the Lake.  
This evening , A. Burney opined that the Town did not need to regulate Zone I; DEP and the Water District did their own 
regulating.  DEP d id not require Zone III to be regulated, but the Town ha d regulations on Zone III.  Zone II was the zone that 
needed to be regulated.  DEP had a 2011  model bylaw with language geared to Zone II.  The Town’s bylaw was dated in the 
early 1990’s.  A large -scale commercial business located on Leominster Shirley voiced interest in developing the property across 
the road from its current location.  The desired property was in Zone III which would require significant regulating.  A. Burney 
proposed that the Board adopt the 2011 DEP bylaw which would allow more flexibility to the Town.  A. Burney had spoken with 
the Water District Superintendent who voiced his support of matching the DEP standards.  A. Burney would provide Board 
members with both DEP’s model bylaw  and the Town’s existing bylaw .   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, 4.10 .23 
Pg 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:    
April 24- Hearing, 39 Main Street  
May 6, 9:00 a.m. - Town Meeting  
May 8 
May 20 – Town Election  
May 27 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities – Action Plan - A. Burney was working with MRPC regarding the MBTA Communities.  
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings  
Town Environmental Support Policy  
Managing Growth – Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan  
Master Plan    
Pond View Commons, LLC    
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  M. Brenner reiterated his concern at the last Board meeting regarding E. Torgersen’s lack of 
attendance at Board meetings .   
 
ADJOURNMENT :   M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  Adjourned 8:08 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting:  
ANR Plan, 603 Massachusetts Avenue  
Tri Party Sureties  
Decisions  
    5 Summer Street  
    383 Whalom Road  
Minutes:  
    3/27/23 
    3/27/23, 5 Summer Street  
    3/27/23, 383 Whalom Road  
 