===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CORPORAY
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Annie M. Aubrey
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
August 28, 2023
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:00 p.m.
Present: Matthew Brenner, Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney, Timothy Willsmer
Absent: Erik Torgersen
REQUEST FOR DE MINIMIS CHANGE - Site Plan Approval 383 Whalom Road
Greg Roy, Dillis & Roy represented applicant. Currently 383 Whalom Road is for automotive garage use including
retail and automotive sale space. Request to rent 750sq feet of space to nail salon business. Tenant is actively pursuing
business license. De Minimis change includes reclassification of 750 sq ft of space to Personal Improvement space.
No additional changes in requirements including parking requirements. M. Brenner inquired about the effect on
signage. Mr. Roy explained currently allowable freestanding pylon sign, primary sign, and secondary sign and once
tenant has granted occupancy, an additional primary sign and secondary sign are permissible. T. Willsmer made
Motion to treat change as De Minimis. Seconded by A. Reid. All, aye. T. Willsmer made Motion to accept De
Minimis Change. Seconded by A. Reid. All, aye.
PUBLIC HEARING - Site Plan Approval 1236 Reservoir Road - See separate minutes
T. Willsmer made Motion to Approve Site Plan with Standard Conditions and industrial construction Hours
of Monday - Friday 7:00am - 5:00pm, Saturday 8:00am - 3:00pm. Seconded by A. Reid. All aye.
BOARD DISCUSSIONS
A. Master Plan Steering Committee: Week of September 11 will schedule kick-off meeting to select Officers
and set expectations. Lunenburg Public Engagement Proposal: Master plan website managed by OverUnder
for posting updates to keep the community up to date. 5'x 7' town topographic modal with lexon cover that
is marker compatible is under construction.
B. Solar Bylaw: Edits recommended by Building Commissioner includes adding canopies cannot reduce the
minimum parking required by use its intended and other is taking out ADA and AAB to govern EV charging.
Adding exemption from large scale for solar canopies for industrial and commercial zones. M. Brenner
communicated to Economic Development Committee discussion about solar bylaw.
C. Section 250-6.4, Driveways & Entrances: Discussed bylaw including inclusion of utility and maintenance
in the access casement title, adding numerical placards at each branch, and for Subdivision, changing grade
by 2% within 75 of street lines. Discussed Commercial driveways whether it should be 6 lots and 1800 feet
with public water or 4 lots, 1200 feet without public water. It is easier to have access to public water and to
install hydrants along points of the driveway. Discussed changing max grade for residential common
driveways from 12% to 10% matching Commercial regulations and discussed buildability. M. Allison
driveway is above 10% grade, the adopted bylaw restricts that capability. A. Burney responded homeowners
can apply for Special Permit Dimensional Variation through the Zoning Board of Appeals and specified that
grade is a dimension.
===PAGE 2===
MINUTES APPROVAL - 8/14/23
T. Willsmer made Motion to approve Minutes, Seconded by A. Reid. All, aye.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee: No report
Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee: Discussed budget, leaks in TC Passios and preparing for Town Meeting.
Agricultural Commission: met with Town Council, discussed bylaw that references farm size, and amending bylaw.
Discussed whether to include Planning Board in the amendment process. Board agreed Planning Board would be
responsible for drafting bylaw to discuss at next meeting.
Capital Planning Committee: No report.
Economic Development Committee: Discussed LBA and grant funding, new businesses, and Town Meet & Greet on
September 28 for past, present, and future business owners to meet town officials. Meet & Greet will be at Low Places
Ranch 441 Goodrich Street in Lunenburg 5:30 p.m. - 7 p.m., donations for the event will be accepted to help fund
food/drinks. For donation or additional information, please contact Joeci Gilchrest at jgilchrest@lunenburgma.gov.
Stormwater Task Force: No report.
MRPC (Montachusett Regional Planning Commission): No report.
MJTC (Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee): No report.
MEETING SCHEDULE: 6:00 p.m., All Board Meetings are held at Town Hall unless otherwise indicated
September 1/
September 25
ONGOING ITEMS
Zoning for MBTA Communities - Action Plan: Reviewing changes to discuss at future meeting
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings
Town Environmental Support Policy
Pond View Commons, LLC
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS
Chair M. Brenner mentioned Lunenburg Town Meet & Greet on September 28 for past, present, and future business
owners to meet town officials. Meet & Greet will be at Low Places Ranch 441 Goodrich Street in Lunenburg 5:30
picase conta, one Gil cores at entitle accepted to hip i dional into Fordion is on radiana ink mation,
ADJOURNMENT
Amanda Reid made Motion to Adjourn, Seconded by M. Allison, all aye.
Adjourned 7:09 p.m.
