===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair     Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk     960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen, Member       Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Annie M. Aubrey 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
June 26, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Brenner, Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney, Timothy Willsmer 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
 
PUBLIC HEARING – Lot A 524 Northfield Road - See Separate Minutes. M. Allison made motion to approve modifications 
to Site Plan Approval and Stormwater Permit, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  
 
RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL - Parcel 4, Leominster Rd. – Continued  
Classified r ecreational land (M.G.L. 61B) intended to be converted to Resi dential. Discussed open space acquisition criteria , 
procuring an appraiser and resources involved in proceeding with the Town’s acquisition of land. Per M. Allison, considering steep 
slopes, guard rails inhibiting access points, limited buildable space, parcel 4 does not meet all criteria for acquisition. A. Reid noted 
Parcel 4’s geography does not give viable opportunity for recreation. Though land is protected wetlands, and some criteria is met, 
Board agreed to table discussion to hear recommendation from Open Space Committee prior to giving recommendation to Select 
Board. Allison made Motion to table discussion dependent on Open Space Committee’s recommendation, Seconded by 
A. T. Willsmer, all aye. 
 
APPOINTMENTS – 757 Chase Road 
Request for 1-year Site Plan Approval and Stormwater Permit extension for a car dealership. No modifications to original site plans 
or conditions. M. Allison made a Motion to approve extension request for the Site Plan Approval and Stormwater Permit. 
Seconded by A. Reid, all aye. 
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Master Plan – Public Forum took place June 15 th. Consultants are developing a public engagement plan. Waiting for 2 more 
Committees to appoint representatives for the Steering Committee.   
Solar Bylaw - Discussed potentiality of addressing concerns about bylaws disserving residential -use ground -mounted solar. 
Discussed adapting bylaws to incorporate the use of raised parking lot solar. 
Section 250-6.4., Driveway & Entrances- A. Burney sent draft to Board members and commissioner. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   M. Allison made Motion to appro ve minutes listed below, A. Reid  Seconded, Roll call Vote - T. 
Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
6/12/23 
 
 
 
Minutes, 6.26.23 
Pg 2 

===PAGE 2===
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee- No report. 
Agricultural Commission- Met 6/15 to approve recipient for donations for Farmer’s Market bags to donate sales of bags to 4 -H 
Capital Planning Committee- No report. 
Economic Development Committee- No report.  
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC- No report. 
MJTC- Met 6/14. Discussed ongoing bridge projects. Discussed need for multimodal transportation uses in different communities.  
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
360 Flat Hill Rd – Scenic Roads - Homeowner hired private contractors to cut approximately 5 trees along the road. Letter and 
application have been mailed to retroactively file. In mitigation homeowners agreed to plant trees. Discussed Scenic Road byl aw 
to incorporate possible recourse for violations against scenic road bylaws. The Director will draft proposed modifi cations to the 
bylaw for further discussion. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
July 10 
July 24 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Master Plan  
Aquifer Protection District – Draft to be submitted to Building Commissioner 
 
BOARD COMMENTS- M. Allison mentioned bylaws state that Lunenburg is a “right to farm” town and new residents should be 
informed. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   M. Allison made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, Roll call Vote- T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  Adjourned 7:35 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    6/12/23 
NOI to Convert to Residential Use – Parcel 4, Leominster Rd  
255 Sunny Hill Rd Chapter 61B Exhibit 
Lot A 524 Northfield Rd: 
    Public Hearing Notice 
    Letter of modifications to Stormwater Permit 
    Revised layout plans 
    WQV Calculations 
 
     
      
 