===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
February 13, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Timothy Willsmer participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Matthew Brenner, Erik Torgersen 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  A stormwater permit was issued for seven (7) lots on Holman St in 2021.  Two of the lots were purchased 
and left unbuildable by abutters ; two were purchased by a builder ; the remaining three were  purchased by another builder.  One 
of the lots  built on  received a certificate of occupancy in January 2023 without the construction of stormwater facili ties.  This 
became known at the time of final inspection on the house on one of the other lots.  A. Burney was working with the builder to 
ensure that funds would be available for the installation of stormwater BMP  (best management practice)  on both of tho se lots. 
Agreements had been  reviewed by Town Counsel .  Agreements required t he signature of both the builder  and the Planning 
Board.  Those agreements would be signed at the Board’s February 27th meeting.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  A representative of the buyers for 147 Holman noted that they had planned on closing on the property this 
date, but now are unable to due to the situation noted above.   
 
ANR PLAN:  100 Howard Street- Plan presented by Seth Don ohoe, Dillis & Roy Design Group.  The ANR Plan created four (4) 
lots at Map 15, Parcel 12.  All four lots had frontage on West Townsend Road with three of the lots having reduced frontage.  A. 
Reid made Motion to endorse the Plan, T. Willsmer Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Willsmer, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, 
aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
Waiver Request from Site Plan Approval, 1259 Massachusetts Avenue - Applicants Melissa Davi d and Kelly Hayes  were 
accompanied by p roperty owner Joshua Brianas.  The proposed business (outpatient mental health clinic) wanted to rel ocate 
from Leominster to Lunenburg and requested a waiver from the site plan approval process.  Parking was already in place and 
there was no need for site modifications.  A. Reid made Motion to approve the waiver request from site plan approval, T. 
Willsmer Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Willsmer, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
HEARING: 1325 Massachusetts Avenue-  See separate minutes. 
 
DECISION:  Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster Shirley Road, Review and Endorsement - Decision si gned by the two 
members physically present at the meeting.  T. Willsmer w ould come into the office to sign the Decision.  Decision w ould then be 
filed with the Town Clerk and enter into an appeal period. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 2.13.23 
Pg 2 
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLIC ATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  The Zoning Board of Appeals 
determined it did not have the authority to waive town meeting action relative to expansion of the Sewer District and the Wat er 
District.  Both the Town’s legal counsel and legal c ounsel for the applicant agreed to let HAC (Housing Action Committee) make 
the determination.    
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Solar Bylaw- This topic was placed on the Agenda at the request of  a Lunenburg resident.  The noted individual wished to make 
a short prese ntation to the Board, but in viewing the lengthy Agenda for this evening, requested the topic be tabled until the 
Board’s February 27th meeting.   
Zoning for MBTA Communities - Action Plan - The Board had anticipated discussion  of the Action Plan at its Janu ary 23 rd 
meeting.  Due to inclement weather, that meeting was not held.  In order to meet the submittal deadline, A. Burney submitted the 
Action Plan to DHCD (Department of Housing and Community Development).   
DLTA Call for Proposals - A. Burney did not fe el there were any upcoming Town projects that would fall under the listed 
categories.   
Section 250- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances- A. Burney would prepare a document for Board discussion. 
 
MASTER PLAN:  Review RFPs - The Board was in receipt of three RFPs fo r the Master Plan ; J M Goldson, Weston & 
Sampson, and OverUnder.  A. Burney noted that all three proposals addressed the Master Plan Elements in a variety of ways.  
These were non-price proposals.  A. Burney would prepare a ranking sheet for Board members.   Interviews would be scheduled 
for 7:30, 8:00, and 8:30 p.m. at the February 27 th Board meeting.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  A. Reid made Motion to approve all minutes listed below, T. Willsmer Seconded, Roll Call Vote - 
T. Willsmer, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
1/9/23 
1/9/23, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
1/9/23, 475 Leominster Shirley Road 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  The Committee discussed potential public access to Lake Shirley through a parcel under the 
jurisdiction of the Parks Commission.   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee -  No report.  The Board would welcome Michael -Ray Jeffreys back for 
continued discussion of the Town municipal buildings.   
Agricultural Commission-  It was noted that one of the two managers of the Farmers’ Market stepped down from the position.  
The Commission was looking for produce (specifically vegetables) vendors.   
Capital Planning Committee-  No report 
Economic Development Committee-  The Committee met with representati ves from the Chamber of Commerce for discussion 
of expanding services in Massachusetts.  The Committee felt it was helpful to meet with the Chamber to see what they do and 
how they operate.   
Storm Water Task Force - The Task Force was looking for detailed costs from the DPW budget as it related to ongoing 
stormwater projects.   
MRPC- There was discussion of the budget  and upcoming nominations.  There was also discussion that remote participation 
under the OML Simple Extension Legislation was due to expire at the end of March 2023.  
MJTC- Discussed multilingual assistance to make public transportation more readily accessible.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
ATM Warrant Open, 1/10/23 – 3/20/23 
Town Caucus, 3/27/23- A. Burney noted that there was a Board meeting this da te.  T. Willsmer would need to be nominated at 
caucus or take out papers. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, 2.13.23 
Pg 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
February 27 
March 13 
March 27 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Managing Growth – Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan 
Master Plan RFP    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:   
M. Allison expressed an interest in a joint meeting of boards, commissions, and committees.  
M. Allison brought up that Bob Pease, Chair of the Conservati on Commission, would like endorsement of the Board’s GIS hours 
from MRPC for the use of the Commission.  This would be an Agenda item on February 27 th.   
 
  ADJOURNMENT:  A. Reid made Motion to adjourn, T. Willsmer Seconded, roll call vote- T. Willsmer, aye; A. Reid, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.    
 
Meeting adjourned 8:06 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 100 Howard Street 
Waiver Request from Site Plan Approval, 1259 Mass Ave 
Decision, 475 Leominster Shirley Road 
Zoning for MBTA Communities – Action Plan 
Master Plan RFPs 
Minutes: 
    1/9/23 
    1/9/23, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
    1/9/23, 475 Leominster Shirley Road 
 