===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
March 13, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
ANR PLAN:  451 Mulpus Road, Lot B3 - Plan presented by Stan Dillis, Dillis and Roy.  The Plan eliminate d a lot line .  It went 
from three lots to two ; creating Lots B3 and 10A.  T. Willsmer made Motion to endorse the ANR Plan for 451 Mulpus Road, 
A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
Proposed Zoning Bylaw Change - Charles Venezia, 1402 Massachusetts Avenue made a presentation.  He opined that self -
storage had been a  previous allowed use, but was not any longer.  He would like to see the use added back in.  A. Burney 
provided clarification – the self-storage facility on Electric Avenue was approved in 2016.  At that time the Building Commissioner 
determined that , even  though not listed in the bylaw as a use,  it was similar  enough to those permitted.  During that same 
timeframe the Board was working on the creation of the Use Table.  The Use Table  listed uses explicitly listed in the zoning 
bylaw and self -storage was no t discussed by the Board .  It was not included in the Use Table, nor the bylaw, so if a use is not 
listed, it is prohibited.  The individual inquired if the Board would put a warrant article on for town meeting allowing the use.  A. 
Burney provided the Boa rd with some possible definitions  and specified that it could be a permitted by special permit from the 
Zoning Board of Appeals in commercial and office park/industrial zoning.   Three possible definitions were provided.  Board 
consensus was to go with, “A building or group of buildings of a controlled -access and/or fenced compound that contains 
compartmentalized and controlled -access stalls or lockers for the storage of customers’ goods or wares”.   M. Brenner made 
Motion for the Land Use Director to prepare  a warrant article for self -storage as discussed, A. Reid Seconded, passed 
unanimously.    
360 Flat Hill Road - The developer was represented by Shane Matson.   The Board’s Decision contained a Condition for the 
completion of stormwater facilities prior to o ccupancy.  The developer wanted to market the houses, but was unable to  plant in 
the rain gardens due to the season .  He was looking for Board approval to put up a bond  for completion of the stormwater 
facilities, thereby allowing him to move forward with selling the houses.  The developer provided the Board with  a detailed 
estimate for  review and possible approval.  The developer knew the work needed to be done and was looking for a way to 
accomplish that without violating the Board’s Decision.  If approve d by the Board, a tri party agreement would be put in place for 
21 Watt Street (Lot 7), 19 Watt Street (Lot 8), 71 Watt Street (Lot 6) and 360 Flat Hill Road (Lot 1).  The Board was amenable to 
putting tri party agreements in place for the four lots.  Documents would be prepared for Board endorsement on March 27 th.   
 
MASTER PLANNING SERVICES:   Three firms were interviewed at the Board’s February 27 th meeting; Weston & Sampson, 
OverUnder, and J M Goldson.  The Board needed to rank the firms.  If the highest ranked firm was within the allotted budget, the 
Board could choose that firm.  If the first choice was over budget, the next qualifying firm would get the contract if it was  within 
budget.  Board discussion ensued over the various pros and cons of the thr ee firms.  Board members handed their ranking 
sheets to A. Burney who would work with the Assistant Town Manager to check references and price proposals.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 3.13.23 
Pg 2 
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  No updates.    
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Solar Bylaw- No report. 
Section 250- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances- No report. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  A. Reid made Motion to approve all minutes listed below, T. Willsmer Seconded, passed 3-0-1.   
2/27/23 
2/27/23, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-   No report. 
Agricultural Commission -  Meeting scheduled for March 16 th.  Some Talent Bank forms had been received for Commission 
vacancies. 
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee-   No report. 
Storm Water Task Force-   No report. 
MRPC- No report. 
MJTC- The Committee was seeking grant proposals for culvert replacement.   M. Allison mentioned the culvert on  Holman Street 
which resulted in the north end of Holman Street being accessible only from Chase Road.     
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Lunenburg Central, Status Update - Construction had been completed on the  building shell and pertinent site facilities.  As the 
building interior was not completed, the site had a temporary certificate of occupancy.  Potential tenants would do their own 
interior fit-out construction.    
ATM Warrant Open, 1/10/23 – 3/20/23- Warrant would close 4:00 p.m., March 20th.   
Town Caucus, 3/27/23 
Planning Department Administrative Assistant -  A. Burney informed Board members that Administrative Assistant Marjorie J. 
Boggio would retire as of June 2023.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
March 27- Hearings were scheduled for change of use in existing buil dings at 5 Summer Street and 383 Whalom Road.  The 
Board would meet at 5:30 p.m. on the 27th in order to attend Town Caucus at 7:00 p.m. 
April 10 
April 24 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities – Action Plan- Required paperwork was submitted.   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Managing Growth – Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan 
Master Plan RFP    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street-  He asked for the Board’s process moving f orward with the consulting 
firm for the Master Plan.  A. Burney responded that if the price proposal was within the allotted budget, the firm would be notified  
and a contract would be negotiated.  If the firm accepted, it would then meet with the Board to discuss public participation.  D. 
Rodgers inquired as to what would be the end product.  A. Burney responded a new Master Plan.  The target date would be for a 
presentation at annual town meeting 2025.   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, 3.13.23 
Pg 3 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  As M. Brenner had missed a couple meetings, he  inquired if Board member Erik Torgersen 
had attended either of th ose meetings.  He went on to note that the Board had previously sent E. Torgersen a letter that 
requested if he intended to participate in Board m eetings.  He inquired if there was a process to remove non -participatory 
members from a board.  A. Burney responded that it would require a recall election or the individual would choose to resign.  A. 
Burney would prepare a memo for the Board outlining the process. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.    
 
Meeting adjourned 8:02 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 451 Mulpus Road 
360 Flat Hill Road, Proposed Invoices/Bonds 
Master Plan RFPs 
Minutes: 
    2/27/23 
    2/27/23, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
 