===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
January 9, 2023 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:39 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney 
Amanda Reid participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review  an application for site plan approval and st ormwater management permit under Chapters 
250 and 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for a contractor yard, personal improvement building, and office 
building at 1325 Massachusetts Avenue .  Owner- 1325 Mass Ave Realty Trust Daniel C. & Jean M. Proctor, Trustees, 1325 
Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA; applicants- Daniel & Jean Proctor, 1529 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA .     
 
The owners/applicants were represented by Greg Roy, Dillis & Roy, 1  Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.  G. Roy summarized past 
permitting on the property; an earth removal permit by the Select Board, in conjunction with the earth removal permit, a 
stormwater management permit and site plan approval with the Planning Board ; Conservation Commission Order of Conditions ; 
MEPA certificate ; temporary curb cut access from DOT ; special permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals for the use of a 
contractor yard on the back of the site ; and a Zoning Board of Appeals special permit for dimensional variation for land 
disturbance within the water supply protection district.  The owners had filed for a permanent curb cut access, which was in 
review with DOT.  The owner had been working for approximately the last three years to remove the earth mat erial from the site.  
As the site was commercially zoned, the owners intended to develop it commer cially.  Toward the front of the site would be two 
buildings; an office and personal improvement.  The contractor storage yard would consist of leasable bay s/units.  It was 
stressed to the Board that the bays were intended for “tradesmen” use, small business owners, etc.  Not open storage of earth 
materials.   
 
A grading and drainage plan was reviewed.  A landscaping and lighting plan was also viewed.   
 
A letter (on file in the Planning Office)  was submitted by abutters Gerry and Dale Erskine, 1331 Massachusetts Avenue.  It was 
read into record by Kathy McWilliams.   
 
Mike Rash, 74 Townsend Harbor Road - He had concerns with the size of the building to the rear of the site; he felt it belonged in 
industrial zoning.  He also felt the hours of operation set by the Zoning Board of Appeals should be reduced.  M. Allison noted 
that operation hours were set by the Zoning Board of Appeals and did not fall under the juri sdiction of the Planning Board.  For 
the benefit of the audience, A. Burney summarized what would fall under the purview of the Planning Board.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 1.9.23 
1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
Page 2 
 
M. Allison inquired if the contractor storage bays had vehicular access – yes.  Discussion would take place between the owners 
and the Sewer Commission regarding floor drains.   
 
D. Proctor noted there would be fencing to the rear of each storage bay consisting of a six foot high chain link with privacy slats.  
M. Allison asked if D. Proctor was amenable to erecting the same along the property lines ; D. Proctor said he would prefer to 
plant arborvitae.  D. Proctor mentioned that the abutters at 68 Townsend Harbor Road asked him to extend the elevated berm 
(as part of earth removal) and to loam it so they could plant wildflowers; he was agreeable with that request.   
 
M. Allison inquired if D. Proctor would be amenable to setting up a fund that abutters would be able to draw on (through a third 
party) for plantings t o fill in gaps along the property line.  D. Proctor responded that he felt what he would be planting w as 
adequate.   
 
The pole lights would be downward facing, dark sky compliant. 
 
M. Allison asked if he would consider a smaller Morton building.  D. Procto r responded that he  went with what was most 
economical for him.   
 
Kathy McWilliams, on behalf of the Erskine’s, requested an architectural rendering of the site at build -out.   
 
M. Brenner made Motion to continue the hearing to January 23, 2023, 6:05 p.m. , T. Willsmer Seconded, Roll Call Vote- A. 
Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Willsmer, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
Hearing recessed 7:43 p.m. 
 
Documents used at hearing: 
Application for Stormwater Permit and Site Plan Approval dtd 12.19.22 
Abutter Letter dtd 1.9.23 