===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Timothy Willsmer, Member
INCORPORA
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Marjorie J. Boggio
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
Public Hearing
383 Whalom Road
March 27, 2023
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:16 p.m.
Present: Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney
Absent: Erik Torgersen
The Hearing was to hear and review an application for site plan approval under Chapter 250 of the Code of the Town of
Lunenburg for restriping of the existing parking lot for auto sales use at 383 Whalom Road. Owner/applicant-Jacques Nassif,
dba J&E Realty Enterprises, Inc., 436 Chandler Street, Worcester, MA 01602.
The owner/applicant was represented by Greg Roy, Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group, Inc. The applicant had received a special
permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals for the auto sales use. This triggered a site plan approval through the Planning Board.
No exterior modifications were proposed. Double-stacked parking spaces were located on the north side of the property with the
rear row for inventory vehicles. The site would accommodate 30 parking spaces. Waivers were requested from the Board Rules
and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits. T. Willsmer noted #17), On-site existing and proposed potable water,
drainage and sewerage system. The applicant stated "...no proposed changes in the water, drainage and sewer system
on the site". T. Willsmer brought up the following comments from the DPW Director: "I have no issues with the proposed
parking spaces. However, there are water issues on this property. The new owner recently turned on the sump pumps and the
water discharged to the rear of the building (Dana Street side) then the water found its way over to the parking lot at 416 Electric
Avenue and the entire parking lot turned to ice. Can we ask them to provide some stormwater mitigation? Also, the snow
storage area at the corner of Dana and Whalom is not recommended. They have snow piled up there now and it is covering the
fire hydrant and blocking access to the traffic signal controller box". A. Burney noted that groundwater was exempt from
stormwater regulations, but suggested the applicant try and resolve the issue. Possibly direct the groundwater towards green
space? Ultimately it would be a civil issue between neighbors. G. Roy noted that areas of snow storage had been memorialized
on the Plan and that the fire hydrant being covered was probably as a result of a recent major snowstorm. A. Burney suggested
the Board state the snow storage locations were not a problem as long as the snow was contained within the lot and didn't
impact the hydrant. M. Allison inquired if the flow going to 416 Electric Avenue could be directed to the town's catch basin; A.
Burney believed it could. M. Brenner questioned if double-stacked parking was allowed under the zoning bylaw. A. Burney
responded it was not specifically addressed in the bylaw, but as the cars were inventory storage, blocking inventory was
reasonable.
===PAGE 2===
M. Brenner made Motion to continue the Hearing for 383 Whalom Road to April 10, 6:05 p.m., A. Reid Seconded, passed
unanimously. Hearing recessed 6:52 p.m.
Documents used at hearing: Application for Site Plan Approval, did 3.6.23
