===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
January 9, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney 
Amanda Reid participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
ANR PLAN:  68 Laurel Lane -  Plan presented by Kevin Conover, David Ross Associates, on behalf of owner Schwowen s 
Properties, LLC.  Two structures were situated on one property prior to the establishment of subdivision control in Lunenburg .  
Having two primary uses on a single lot was a larger nonconformity than dimensional nonconformities.  The current driveway on 
the proposed Lot 2 would contain a driveway  access easement onto Lot 1 .  M. Brenner made Motion to endorse the ANR 
Plan for 68 Laurel Lane, T. Willsmer Seconded, Roll Call Vote - M. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Willsmer, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously. 
 
Below agenda items taken out of order. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster Shirley Road -  See separate minutes.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the 
modification to site plan approval for Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster Shirle y Road, with current existing conditions 
and no new conditions added, T. Willsmer Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  A. Reid, aye; T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously. 
 
1325 Massachusetts Avenue- See separate minutes. 
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  Hearing ongoing with the Zoning 
Board of Appeals. 
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Master Plan RFP-  Awaiting responses to the RFP. 
Section 250- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances- In-depth discussion would take place at the January 23 meeting.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Allison made Motion to approve the minutes of 12/06/22 and 12/12/22, A. Reid Seconded, roll 
call vote- M. Allison, aye; A. Reid, aye; T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Meeting scheduled for January 12th.   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  See below Lunenburg Municipal Buildings. 
Agricultural Commission-  Meeting scheduled for January 19th.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.09.23 
Page 2 
 
Capital Planning Committee-  The Committee continued with its ranking.   
Economic Development Committee-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC- See below DLTA Call for Proposals. 
MJTC-  Meeting scheduled for January 11th.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEM:  DLTA Call for Proposals - Board members were in receipt of a Call for Proposals from MRPC for free 
planning services.  The five categories available were - 1. MBTA Communities technical assistance, 2. Planning Ahead for 
Housing, 3. Planning Ahead for Growth, 4. Supporting the Community Compact, including regionalization, and 5. Supporting the 
Housing Choice Initiative.  Round #1 proposals were due to MRPC by February 7 th.  A more in-depth discussion could take place 
at the next Board members in the event any members felt the Board needed to move forward with a proposal application.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
January 23-  
 Hearing continuation for 1325 Massachusetts Avenue. 
 Continued discussion surrounding municipal buildings. 
 In-depth discussion of driveways and entrances.   
 
February 13 
February 27  
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings - Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chair of both the Select Board the Municipal Building Committee was 
available for Board discussion.  He gave a brief history of the Commi ttee and its exploration of uses of TC Passios.  The 
Committee had been looking at how to re -purpose TC Passios, Town Hall, Brooks House, 30 School Street, and Ritter Building.  
The focus was on the Hybrid Concept .  TC Passios would be used as a transition  space while the other buildings were be ing 
rehabilitated, with TC Passios’ final disposition being as a community center.  Town Hall would be turned into a meeting house.  
The Ritter Building, with an addition, would become school administrative offices a nd the new town hall.  30 School Street would 
be demolished in spring of 2023.  A n outcome for the Brooks House had not been determined.  Board members wanted to take 
some time to absorb the information provided.  M. Jeffreys would return to the January 23 rd meeting for additional discussion.   
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Zoning Changes to Manage Growth 
Zoning for MBTA Communities 
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
Northfield Road, Parks Commission Property 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, T. Willsmer Seconded, roll call vote- M. Allison, aye; A. Reid, aye; 
T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye, Passed unanimously.    
 
Meeting adjourned 8:20 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 68 Laurel Lane 
Minutes: 
    12/06/22 
    12/12/22 
MRPC DLTA Call for Proposals 