===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
March 27, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  5:30 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
BOARD COMMENT:  It was noted that the Open Meeting Law Extension of Remote Meetings was extended to 2025.  
 
FLAT HILL ROAD & WATT STREET, Tri Party -  The developer, Matson Homes ( Ken Matson) asked for Lots 7 and 8 ( 21 and 
19 Watt Street respectively) .  The funds, $10,000 per lot, would be put in a  tri party account for completion of the stormwater 
facilities at a future date.  This would allow the developer to move forward with sel ling the two houses.  M. Brenner made 
Motion to endorse the sureties for 19 and 21 Watt Street, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  A. Burney would set 
up the accounts with the bank.   
 
Below agenda items taken out of order 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
5 Summer St reet-  See separate minutes.   M. Brenner made Motion to approve the site plan approval f or 5 Summer 
Street, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  Board Decision was prepared for the April 10th Board meeting. 
383 Whalom Road-  See separate minutes.  Hearing continued to April 10, 2023.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Solar Bylaw- No report. 
Section 250- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances- No report. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  A. Reid made Motion to approve the minutes of 3/1/23, T. Willsmer Seconded, passed 3-0-1.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee -   M. Allison noted the Committee was reluctant to go to the citizens at 
town meeting for additional funds.  The Committee seemed to favor the Hybrid Option.   
Agricultural Commission-  The Commission received two Talent Bank forms and made recommendations to the Select Board.  
Anticipated timeframe of the Farmers’ Market was early-June to late-October.   
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee-   No report. 
Storm Water Task Force-   No report. 
MRPC- No report. 
MJTC-  No report. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 3.27.23 
Pg 2 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Master Planning Services, Update-  A contract was signed with OverUnder.   
ATM May 6 – Zoning Article Update- The Article was submitted for the Warrant.   
Member Recall Process-  A. Burney provided the Board members with Chapter C, Charter, Art icle 3, Elected Officials, Section 
3-1. General Provisions .  It would require 100 voters to sign an affidavit and submit it to the town clerk.  The town clerk would 
then provide a blank petition to all those individuals that signed the affidavit.  Those individuals then needed to gain signatures of 
20% of the registered voters in town.  Those signatures would be returned to the  town clerk for submittal to the select board.   
The next step would be either a recall/other election.  A. Burney advised the Board that it should inform both the Town Manager 
and the Town Clerk if it chose to move forward with the recall process.  Board m embers expressed their doubts that  they would 
be able to obtain 20% o f the required signatures.  A. Burney noted that town election could be a possible time for Board 
members to get a petition signed.  No decision was made by the Board.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
April 10- Hearings for Zoning Warrant Article and 759 & 763 Northfield Road (scenic road)  
April 24 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities – Action Plan - MRPC had commenced the GIS process  for an appropriate location of the 
required zoning.   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Managing Growth – Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan 
Master Plan RFP    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.    
 
Meeting adjourned 6:52 p.m. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
360 Flat Hill Road, Proposed Invoices/Bonds 
Minutes: 
    3/13/23 
 