===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
NCORPOR
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Annie M. Aubrey
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
August 14, 2023
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:00 p.m.
Present: Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer
Absent: Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney, Erik Torgersen
REQUEST FOR DE MINIMIS CHANGE - 88 Massachusetts Avenue
M. Allison, A. Reid and T. Willsmer had questions on De Minimis Change request and made decision to table
discussion for August 28, 2023.
Minutes are not in order of events.
Anastasia Halkiadakis (Staci) is the Applicant for 88 Massachusetts Avenue and submitted request for De Minimis
change. M. Allison questioned impact from holding off on approving request for De Minimis change. Staci stated
tenant, who is ready to sign 22 year lease, needs information for Select Board prior to next Select Board meeting
8/15/23. M. Allison questioned purpose of request for De Minimis change and Staci stated difference between retail
and retail with liquor license. Per the tenant, Building inspector is waiting on requirements from plumbing inspector
and outcomes of planning board meeting. A. Burney supplied a memorandum that states "The property...being
classified as retail. Owner of the property has negotiated with the tenant to use this space for a Liquor Store. Per
Section 250-4.1G Use Table, Liquor store is defined use separate from Retail Sales. The request from the property
owner is to change the assigned use." A. Reid made Motion to approve De Minimis Change for 88 Massachusetts
Avenue. Seconded by T. Willsmer. All, aye.
DECISIONS - 525 Chase Road
M. Allison made motion to agree on all Standard and Special conditions of Decision for Site Plan Approval for 525
Chase Road. Due to absentees A. Burney and Chair M. Brenner, M. Allison requested members of the Board to sign
Decision at Planning office in order to obtain all signatures.
BOARD DISCUSSIONS
A. Master Plan Steering Committee - No discussion
B. Solar Bylaw - No discussion
C. Section 250-6.4., Driveways & Entrances - No Discussion
D. Aquifer Protection Bylaw - No discussion
MINUTES APPROVAL - 7/24/23, 525 Chase Road
A Reid made motion to approve the aforementioned minutes. Seconded by T. Willsmer. All, aye.
Passed unanimously.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Open Spacee Ad Hoc Committee - No report.
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee - No report.
===PAGE 2===
communities in order to achieve quorum.
MEETING SCHEDULE
6:00 p.m., All Board Meetings are held at Town Hall unless otherwise indicated
August 28
September 25
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS
M. Allison noted Chair M. Brenner wishes to exclude the Pledge of Allegiance at the beginning of Planning Board
meetings moving forward.
A.Reid made Motion to Adjourn, Seconded by T. Willsmer. All, aye.
Adjourned at 6:40 p.m.
===PAGE 3===
D18
INCORPOR
Adam R. Burney
Land Use Director
Annie M. Aubrey
Administrative Assistant
Minutes
Public Hearing
1263 Reservoir Road
August 28, 2023
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:15 p.m.
Present: Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney
Absent: Erik Torgersen
The Hearing was to hear and request approval for Site Plan for 1263 Reservoir Road. Owner and Applicant are P.J. Keating
Company, 998 Reservoir Road Lunenburg, MA 01462. Mark Pillsbury of P.J. Keating represented Applicant requesting Site Plan
Approval to construct a 3,350sq foot structure near existing asphalt plant. Steel truss and fabric covered structure to cover recycled
asphalt per requirements of Massachusetts Department of Transportation. Setbacks are well within requirements. Waivers
requested for drainage calculations, traffic analysis, Stormwater, fiscal analysis, environmental impact, parking plan, wetlands
va is required, a in naci, packing pai, petands
impact, floodplain, signage, due to building on impervious surface, no tree removal is required, and no impact on traffic, parking,
signage, drainage, environment or Stormwater and no fiscal impact for the Town.
M. Allison made Motion to accept Waivers as requested. Seconded by A. Reid. All, aye.
M. Allison made Motion to close Public Hearing. Seconded by A. Reid. All, aye.
T. Willsmer made Motion to Approve Site Plan with Standard Conditions and industrial construction Hours of Monday -
Friday 7:00am - 5:00pm, Saturday 8:00am - 3:00pm. Seconded by A. Reid. All aye.
Public Hearing Closed 6:33 p.m.
