===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
May 22, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Timothy Willsmer participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Master Plan Committee – Composition- The Board viewed an updated draft of the Committee composi tion and Charge.  It 
reduced both the Planning Board and Select Board from two (2) representatives to one (1)  each.  It replaced the Housing 
Authority member with a member of the Library Trustees, and increased at -large membership from four (4) to six (6).   The 
consultant OverUnder/RKG/Innes Associates  would hold a public kickoff presentation on June 15 th to commence the process.  
M. Brenner requested that the Charge emphasize the Board’s statutory responsibility in Master Planning.  M. Brenner voiced 
concern that the majority of representation would be from middle -aged individuals and not enough from younger adults.  M. 
Brenner made Motion to adopt the Master Plan Steering Committee Charge with the noted changes, A. Reid Seconded, 
Roll Call Vote-  M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; T. Willsmer, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
Solar Bylaw- No report 
Section 250-6.4., Driveway & Entrances- No report 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   M. Brenner made Motion to approve minutes listed below, A. Reid Seconded, Roll cal l Vote-  T. 
Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
5/8/23 
5/8/23, 39 Main Street 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -   The Committee discussed a property on Burrage Street that was interested in  being added 
to the Water District for a potential housing development.   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-   No report. 
Agricultural Commission-   Would meet on June 1 st to discuss the June 4 th Farmers’ Market opening.  Market would be open 
through October, every Sunday, 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee -  The Committee discussed the Farmers’ Market and that there would be the opportunity 
for vendors to have “half-share booths”, i.e. one vendor would utilize the booth on “A” week and the other vendor would have the 
booth on “B” week.  There was discussion on how to boost foot traffic for the Market, e.g. live music.  In addition, the Lune nburg 
Business Association and Economic Develop ment Committee would like to have a meet and greet with town officials to discuss 
ways to demystify town permitting processes with small business owners.   
Storm Water Task Force-   The DPW updated the Task Force on the street sweeping status and cleaning of catch basins within 
town.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 5.22.23 
Pg 2 
 
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-  Discussion of cost changes in local communities and grant availability. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Site Plan Approval-  No current update as today was the Building Commissioner’s first day. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
June 12- Board Reorganization 
June 15- Kickoff presentation for master planning. 
June 26 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Master Plan 
Aquifer Protection District 
Zoning for MBTA Communities – Action Plan  
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings - M. Allison noted that the old primary school at 30 School Street had been demolished.  The 
site had been graded and loamed.   
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Pond View Commons, LLC- Still before the Housing Advisory Committee (HAC).   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded,  Roll call Vote-  T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, 
aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  Adjourned 6:53 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    5/8/23 
    5/8/23, 39 Main Street 
Master Plan Steering Committee Charge 
 
 