===PAGE 1===
 
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Glenn McLeod, Member 
 
           Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
           Fax: (978) 582-4353 
           960 Massachusetts Ave 
           Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly – Land Use Director 
Logan O’Connell – Administrative Asst 
MINUTES 
2024-08-26 (complete) 
MEETING POSTED:  Yes 
ADDRESS:   Town Hall, 17 Main St 
TIME:    6:00 P.M. 
PRESENT:  Matthew Brenner, Timothy Willsmer, Amanda Reid, Glenn McLeod, Matthew Allison 
ABSENT:  None 
 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE 
The meeting was called to order at 6:01 P.M. Matthew Allison led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None. 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
255 Sunny Hill Rd – Stormwater Management Permit (Cont. FROM 2024-08-12) 
 Public Hearing resumed at 6:04 P.M. 
--- 
Brian Marchetti (representing applicant Stefan McSweeney) summarized previous delays—e.g. 
Conservation Commission’s request for 3rd party review of wetland delineations—and confirmed their 
approval of the current plan, which shifted the driveway north about 12 ft. He noted some run-off 
would be collected and piped under the driveway, and certain pipes from the neighbors’ property 
would be extended across the project’s driveway. 
Kenneth Patton (290 Leominster Rd, abutter) noted an inaccuracy with the plan’s discharge location 
for the pipe beginning on his property, which was addressed at the 2024-07-17 Conservation 
Commission meeting via a special condition to update the plan’s location later. B. Marchetti explained 
that the exact locations would be uncovered before drainage construction starts, and an updated plan 
would then be provided to the Conservation Commission before construction begins. He also noted a 
===PAGE 2===
2 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
provision for a maintenance agreement on the project lot’s deed that would allow the owner of the 
abutting property (K. Patton) to maintain the pipe.  
K. Patton re-emphasized that he doesn’t want any digging or work done on his property without his 
written permission. B. Marchetti agreed this was reasonable, and M. Brenner indicated this could be 
added as a condition. 
 
M. Allison opined that the Stormwater Management Permits weren’t adequate for their intended 
purpose of protecting the neighborhood and roads and had never seen proposed construction on 
somebody else’s lot without accurately surveying the location.  
B. Marchetti explained that the proposed off-site work was part of an agreement with neighbors due 
to run-off which was illegally redirected across the abutters’ property: the McSweeneys discussed the 
problem with the neighbors and agreed to collect and pipe the run-off underneath the driveway. He 
noted that off-site flow wasn’t included in their Drainage Calculations as it wasn’t caused by their 
development. M. Allison said he wouldn’t be voting for this, noting the plan inaccuracy and the 
involvement of an abutting property in the mitigation development. 
M. Brenner asked R. Harris how common endorsing Stormwater Permits with advanced knowledge of 
plan inaccuracies or pending modifications was. He replied that any change would need to come back 
before the Planning Board for approval of the modification regardless. He noted that although 
expecting modifications in advance was unusual, so was the need to mitigate illegal run-off. 
M. Allison had visited the site and opined it could’ve been properly surveyed. B. Marchetti explained – 
since K. Patton only recently dug the pipe up, the true location of the pipe wasn’t available to them at 
the time, and they would file an accurate plan before any construction was done. He planned they’d 
submit the minor changes for record—which would be shown on the As-Built plan required for a 
certificate of occupancy—rather than pursuing a full Site Plan Modification. 
R. Harris recommended requiring a concurrent submission to the Planning Board and Conservation 
(not requiring a Public Hearing) to address the modification. 
T. Willsmer moved to close the Public Hearing for 255 Sunny Hill Rd. 
M. Allison seconded. 
Roll Call Vote: 
Yes M. Allison, T. Willsmer, A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain G. McLeod 
 
Public hearing closed 6:47 P.M. 
--- 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
 
 
The board discussed and agreed on the following conditions: 
1. The Standard Conditions 
2. No work done on the abutter’s property without their written consent 
3. Changes to the plan must be submitted simultaneously to the Conservation Commission and 
Planning Board for their review and approval 
4. The inclusion of the maintenance agreement for the pipe as-discussed. 
T. Willsmer agreed with M. Allison that the Town’s Stormwater bylaws were inadequate for their 
purpose. R. Harris recommended reviewing this with the new Land Use Director. 
T. Willsmer moved to approve the Stormwater Management Permit for 255 Sunny Hill Rd subject to 
the standard conditions and the three conditions previously discussed. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Roll Call Vote: 
Yes M. Brenner, A. Reid 
No M. Allison, T. Willsmer 
Abstain G. McLeod 
 
The board was unsure how to proceed with a 2-2-1 result.  
M. Brenner explained that Glenn McLeod is unable to vote on this matter due to it beginning before his 
time on the board.  
The project engineer Brian Marchetti prepared to ask a question, but Richard Harris explained that he 
couldn’t ask questions now as the Public Hearing had been closed.  
R. Harris recommended deferring the decision to the next meeting (pending clarification from Town 
Counsel on whether a split vote for a Stormwater Permit constitutes a denial).  
T. Willsmer moved to defer the decision for 255 Sunny Hill to the 2024-09-09 Meeting. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Roll Call Vote: 
Yes M. Allison, T. Willsmer. A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain G. McLeod 
 
Near the end of the meeting, R. Harris relayed communication from Town Counsel seeking T. Willsmer 
and M. Allison’s specific reasons for denial (for inclusion in the draft decision to be acted upon at the 
===PAGE 4===
4 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
next meeting). 
 
 
 
3 Lancaster Avenue – Special Permit for Village Center District Freestanding Sign 
A. Reid read the legal advertisement for the Public Hearing, opened 7:05 P.M 
--- 
Sandy Leavenworth (50 Island Rd, Groton) representing AlphaGraphics briefly outlined the history and 
procedural delays of the application. L. O’Connell elaborated – a sign permit was originally issued by 
the Building Commissioner in error and later rescinded due to the property being in the Village Center 
District (requiring a Special Permit from the Planning Board for a freestanding sign). 
The board invited public comment and found none. 
T. Willsmer moved to close the Public Hearing for 3 Lancaster Ave’s Special Permit. 
M. Allison seconded. 
Roll Call Vote: 
Yes G. Mcleod, M. Allison, T. Willsmer. A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain  
Public Hearing Closed 7:11 P.M. 
--- 
M. Allison moved to approve the Special Permit for signage at 3 Lancaster Avenue with all standard 
conditions and as presented.  
T. Willsmer seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: 
Yes G. Mcleod, M. Allison, T. Willsmer. A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain  
 
R. Harris clarified the next steps for the applicant: The Board would receive a written decision to act 
upon at their next meeting, which is then filed with the Town Clerk by the Town, beginning the 20 day 
appeal period for the Special Permit. 
DECISIONS 
240 Summer St – Site Plan Approval, Stormwater Management Permit 
===PAGE 5===
5 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
This was moved later in the meeting to 9:43 P.M. in the interest of time, given the large number of 
public attendees for the Water Supply Protection District discussion. 
 
The voting members for this matter were T. Willsmer, M. Brenner and A. Reid, as they were present 
for the initial approval on 2024-07-22. They reviewed the language of both the Site Plan Approval 
and Stormwater Management Permit decisions. 
 
Roll Call Vote 
  
Yes G. McLeod, A. Reid, T. Willsmer 
No   
Abstain M. Allison, M. Brenner 
 
Site Plan Approved 3-0-2 
Stormwater Management Permit Granted 3-0-2 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
Water Supply Protection District 
M. Brenner invited comment from the public and the Water District. 
John Fortune (50 Hemlock Dr) presented a memo outlining the following requests for 250-4.9 Section 
F (permitted uses within Zone 1): 
(2)(b): Add “swimming” 
(2)(g): Remove “construction, installation”, and replace “associated infrastructure” with “associated 
current infrastructure”. (Activities conducted by the Lunenburg Water District necessary and 
incidental to the well) 
(2)(h): Remove section entirely, OR add “on-land” to “Removing on-land non-native, nuisance, or 
invasive species...” 
M. Brenner clarified that we inherit the definition of Zone 1 from the State, and confirmed with 
R. Harris that Zone 1 is by definition only on land, e.g. boating in a lake would not be prevented by 
its absence from Zone 1’s allowed uses. Joan Pease (11 Wintergreen Ct) opined that either 
swimming and boating should be allowed, or neither should be included. 
Mark Bursch (20 Buttonwood Place) of the Water District agreed that boating should be left in and 
noted that swimming is considered a “passive outdoor recreation” which is already allowed. 
Fran McNamara of the Water District disagreed with Mr. Fortune’s proposed changes to (2)(g) due to 
the financial burdens associated with the additional piping it would require. J. Fortune countered that 
excessive additional piping wouldn’t be required as the distance in Zone 1 was only 400 ft from the 
well. He was concerned about treatment plants storing extracted hazards so close to the water table. 
===PAGE 6===
6 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
F. McNamara explained that any hazards interpreted from the treatment plant itself being in Zone 1 
would be negated by the treatment that water would be going through there and would always be 
cleaner after going through treatment. J. Fortune was still concerned about the storage of the 
concentrated hazards removed in the treatment process, which F. McNamara didn’t consider a hazard, 
noting it met MassDEP standards. He later explained that hazardous contaminates have dedicated 
retention areas, so if a tank did explode it would be caught & not impact the water supply. 
J. Pease opined that the Water District’s point about extra costs due to only owning the Zone 1 within 
Keatings was moot since the by-law can’t be written on an individual basis, and asked the board to 
consider all areas in its approach. M. Brenner clarified that by-law can’t explicitly 
 
  
address individual wells or treat them differently, but that consideration of all the wells individual 
needs is considered. 
Debbie Ritchie (98 Royal Front Dr) clarified that verbal references to “state law” should’ve said 
“state regulations” (the CMR), which R. Harris confirmed. M. Bursch noted that those regulations 
supersede Town bylaws, but J. Pease clarified that the regulations set a minimum level of restrictions 
which a local government can exceed in passing a more restrictive by-law. 
T. Willsmer asked who the financial impacts of the Water District construction primarily affected. 
M. Brenner explained it was the water takers, and overruns are addressed through rate hikes. M. 
Bursch later mentioned that the Town itself is also a substantial water taker through (i.e. the 
school, DPW, Fire Department, Town Hall) and opined that this extends the effect to taxpayers. 
M. Brenner invited further comment from the public. 
Andrew Starvaski (8 Wintergreen Ct) said he had previously emailed the Planning Board members 
about a negative reaction to a well-intentioned resident from the Water District at their meeting, and 
cited that in asking for the Special Permit requirement. J. Pease agreed and opined that the Water 
District could prevent the potential delays of a Special Permit by better incorporating public input 
earlier in their processes with engineers. 
Dave Rogers (82 Highland St) asked whether the previous speakers had shared their 
documentation with the Water District. He opined that there wasn’t enough transparency between 
the two groups, and that the water treatment needed to comply with the State’s upcoming PFAS 
limits would be costly no matter what. 
M. Brenner informally polled the room, confirming that requiring a Special Permit was the main 
conflict, and asked the Board for their input. 
Glenn McLeod noted that he had watched the meeting mentioned by A. Starvaski before receiving 
his email, and presently indicated support for requiring a Special Permit. He noted the uniqueness 
of requiring this for a governmental entity such as the Water District. 
M. Brenner asked how commonly other municipalities required a Special Permit for their own 
governments’ entities. R. Harris explained it wasn’t common but opined that since Zoning is primarily 
to address local objectives and concerns, one community’s setup might not translate well to another. 
G. McLeod agreed, opining that communities have recently been losing Zoning rights to the State. 
===PAGE 7===
7 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
Bob Pease (11 Wintergreen Ct) asked the Board to poll its own positions on the Special Permit 
requirement. M. Brenner leaned towards Special Permit but wanted to push more polling later 
to keep the discussion open and flexible. 
Bill Hannigan of Hannigan Engineering attempted to clarify the upcoming steps, including what a 
finalized draft of the bylaw revision would contain. R. Harris explained that the document being 
referenced was a working draft containing two conflicting sets of recommendations (the Water 
District’s and the Hickory Hills group’s), one of which must be chosen before the document is 
submitted for the Town Warrant. 
 
T. Willsmer asked about the history of this proposed revision. 
M. Brenner later explained: 
1. The Water District attempted to update the Zoning map to match MassDEP’s updated map, which 
was voted down due to local concerns of negative impacts 
2. Then-Land Use Director Adam Burney drafted heavy modifications to the Water Supply 
Protection District’s Zoning bylaw 
3. This draft was tabled to the next Special Town meeting in Spring. Between then and that meeting, 
Adam Burney left the Town and Interim Land Use Director Richard Harris took over editing. 
4. The Board was unable to reach consensus by that Special Town meeting, so the draft was 
pulled. 
5. The revisions being discussed tonight are the “re-do” of that draft. 
M. Allison explained that an associated zoning map change had been rejected twice, and this would 
be this proposal’s third rejection. He opined that the Board excessively delayed its finalization of the 
article since the voters at Town Meeting can propose amendments on the floor. M. Brenner replied 
he intentionally prolonged the drafting process for an uninterested third party (the Planning Board) 
to oversee the in-depth discussion between the two interest groups. M. Allison lamented the 
confusion and lack of collaboration with the Select Board, Land Use Director, and professionals, as 
well as the lack of timely access to updated draft information. 
The Board agreed to choose the set of revisions for the proposal and discussed. 
M. Allison questioned the pertinence of the Planning Board’s input given the Water District being 
regulated by MassDEP and public health. M. Brenner opined that the Planning Board’s role in it was 
protecting hyper-local interests, and that the implementation would be less contentious than current 
discussions. M. Allison reiterated his expectation of Special Permits to significantly increase costs such 
as lag time. 
G. McLeod supported for a Special Permit, citing the tangible tension between the groups and his 
concern for the board’s ability to resolve a potential dispute between them without the leverage of a 
Special Permit. 
T. Willsmer supported a Special Permit, citing G. McLeod’s opinion on the protective role of 
government. 
A. Reid supported a Special Permit, noting the value of compromise and questioning the true impact of 
a Special Permit on a project of the Water District’s scale. 
===PAGE 8===
8 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
T. Willsmer moved to include the amendments recommended on the July 8th Planning Board 
meeting, with the addition of swimming, and exclude the Water District’s proposed amendments 
regarding water treatment plants. 
M. Allison seconded.  
 
Roll Call Vote:  
Yes G. McLeod, M. Allison, T. Willsmer. A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain  
 
 
 
Accessory Dwelling Units 
Certain State changes to the Affordable Homes Act regarding ADUs go into effect on 2025-02- 
02. The Board examined proposed revisions to the Code of Lunenburg (§ 250, subsections 2.1, 3.4, 
4.1(H), 4.1(G) and 5.2) that comply with these changes. 
M. Brenner noted that Lunenburg’s by-law for ADUs is already permissive compared to other 
municipalities, allowing them by right in most cases, so the necessary changes for compliance weren’t 
extensive. 
R. Harris emphasized the importance of including this at the upcoming Town Meeting to avoid a gap 
period where an ADU applicant would effectively only need a Building Permit. He noted a spike of 
inquiries to the Building Commissioner after the State’s announcement. 
M. Allison asked R. Harris if there were any changes not necessitated by the updated State law. He 
replied that after discussion with the Building Commissioner about vagueness and applicability, he 
opted to remove section `k` and `h`(2). 
G. McLeod opined that although extensive changes weren’t needed, this was another example of the 
State taking zoning controls from communities. He foudn it important to communicate this to voters 
in any article (i.e. a blurb of “where did this come from, and why?”). 
T. Willsmer moved to have L. O’Connell submit the draft language (as presented) to the Town 
Manager’s office for the Article of Warrant, and to schedule the corresponding Public Hearing on 
2024-09-23. 
M. Allison seconded. 
Roll Call Vote:  
Yes G. McLeod, M. Allison, T. Willsmer. A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain  
 
ABUTTING COMMUNITY NOTICES 
===PAGE 9===
9 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
Postponed. 
ONGOING ITEMS 
MBTA Zoning 
G. McLeod suggested getting approval of a draft article the Executive Office of Housing and Livable 
Communities (EOHLC) prior to Town Meeting, citing examples of Towns which had passed bylaws 
which were approved by the Attorney General and subsequently disapproved by the EOHLC. 
  
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
Postponed.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Postponed. 
  
  
MINUTES APPROVAL 
Postponed. 
  
MEETING SCHEDULE 
All meetings are 6:00 P.M. at Town Hall on the 2nd and 4th Monday of each month, unless otherwise noted. 
Upcoming meetings: 2024-09-09, 2024-09-23 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
L. O’Connell mentioned seeing recurring difficulties with the Town’s file-management practices (such 
confusion around document versioning and use of disparate platforms), and cited the Select Board’s 2024-
08-20 meeting. He opined that such practices (e.g. sending e-mail attachments & creating duplicate 
individualized copies) utilized what the best available technology was for many years, but that current 
technology is capable of a more centralized and trackable working experience for employees and Board 
members. He expressed interest in helping with its broader implementation. 
  
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS 
M. Brenner commended T. Willsmer and A. Reid for their recent performances as Chair in his absence. He 
also thanked R. Harris for his services as Interim Land Use Director, saying he’d done a bigger service 
through his temporary contract than most people would ever receive. 
He also recently attended an interview for a full-time Land Use Director as an observer, and was hopeful for 
the near future. 
  
ADJOURNMENT 
===PAGE 10===
10 of 10 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-08-26 (complete)   
 
   
 
T. Willsmer moved to adjourn the meeting. 
M. Allison seconded. 
Roll Call Vote:  
Yes G. McLeod, M. Allison, T. Willsmer. A. Reid, M. Brenner 
No  
Abstain  
 
Meeting adjourned 10:27 P.M. 
Documents Referenced: 
• 2024-08-21_ Draft Revised Water Supply Protection District, WD and 2024-07-08 edits incl. 
• 2024-08-26_ John Fortune 50 Hemlocke Dr Memo (Emailed to Board Members) 
• 240 Summer St SW Decision – Draft 
• 240 Summer St Site Plan Approval Decision – Draft 
• Accessory Dwelling Units - Annotated Version of Affected Bylaw Provisions but not Use Table Accessory 
Dwelling Units - Annotated Version of Use Table Residential Uses 
• Accessory Dwelling Units - Proposed Draft Amendment 2024-08-20 Advisory, Affordable Homes Act 