===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Tel:  (978) 582-4146, ext. 5 
Fax:  (978) 582-4353 
       960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
Glenn McLeod, Member 
Minutes 
June 10th, 2024 
 
 
Richard Harris – Interim Land Use Director 
Logan O’Connell – Administrative Assistant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Address:   Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 
Date:    6:00 P.M. 
 
Present: Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Glenn McLeod 
Absent: Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 
The meeting’s beginning was briefly delayed due to technical issues with Zoom. After unsuccessful 
staff troubleshooting, Matthew Brenner clarified that the meeting could continue without Zoom and 
began the meeting at approximately 6:18 P.M without it. 
 
M. Brenner and Matthew Allison discussed possible continuations and agenda modifications due to 
the technical difficulties. M. Allison expressed dissatisfaction with the Town Government’s 
performance, and M. Brenner agreed. 
 
Richard Harris and M. Brenner discussed which items to postpone due to the inability for the public to 
comment online. 
 
M. Allison opined that the purpose of Public Hearings was to serve the general public, and 
emphasized that they were the largest of many groups that were inconvenienced by the technical 
difficulties. 
 
REORGANIZATION: 
R. Harris recommended voting on the Chair position and postponing the full re-organization until all 
members could be present. 
 
M. Allison moved to continue Chair Membership until the next meeting, M. Brenner seconded, 
passed unanimously. 
 
APPOINTMENT: 
MBTA Zoning 
Karen Chapman rescheduled her presentation to 2024-06-24 to have Zoom available. 
 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
Two candidates (Sondria Harp, 20 Pratt St and Emily Young, 36 Florence St) were present. 
M. Brenner asked for a brief personal summary, including reasons for joining the committee. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
S. Harp presented. She explained some of her community social-media initiatives, noting that she 
preferred being involved to “sitting on the sidelines”. M. Allison moved to appoint S. Harp to the 
Master Plan Steering Committee, Glenn McLeod seconded. Passed unanimously 
 
E. Young presented. She noted her inexperience serving on Town Committees, but explained her 
history as a resident, teacher and parent in the Lunenburg Public Schools system. She also 
emphasized plans to improve accessibility within the community. M. Allison moved to appoint E. 
Young to the Master Plan Steering Committee, G. McLeod seconded. Passed unanimously. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
255 Sunny Hill Rd (Cont. FROM 2024-04-22, TO 2024-07-08) 
The applicant was represented by Brian Marchetti of McCarty Engineering. B. Marchetti gave an 
updated timeline of the project’s Stormwater Management Permit, including the Conservation 
Commission’s April request for a third-party review consult to verify McCarty’s wetland lines and an 
estimated resolution within a month.  
 
M. Allison moved to continue the public hearing to 2024-07-08 at 6:05 P.M.  
G. McLeod seconded. Passed unanimously. 
 
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: 
430 Mulpus Rd – Harbor Classic (Cont. TO 2024-06-24) 
Applicant not present. 
 
CERTIFICATES OF COMPLETION: 
680 Reservoir Rd  
David & Leigh Sarnoski were represented by B. Marchetti of McCarty Engineering. B. Marchetti 
explained that the applicants were moving into Lunenburg and attempting to close their house sale 
today. He listed the timeline of the project’s Storm Water Permit and asked for the as-built plan to be 
signed. 
 
M. Brenner explained the purpose of Certificates of Completion for the benefit of G. McLeod as a new 
board member. He asked about Graves’ assessment that the site needed to be “stabilized with 
vegetative growth”, and Marchetti explained that the majority of the site had been loamed but not 
hydroseeded. 
 
R. Harris noted that performance guarantees to address the “vegetative issue” were an option to the 
board. In response, B. Marchetti explained that the property had an Order of Conditions, which 
provides a mechanism for accountability on what’s done with the property before the Conservation 
Commission issues a Certificate of Compliance. R. Harris added that as homeowners, the applicants 
had a greater incentive for maintaining the property than an outside developer. 
 
M. Brenner asked for the board’s preference between accepting the Order of Conditions or requiring 
a Performance Guarantee for an accountability mechanism. G. McLeod and M. Allison declined to 
require a Performance Guarantee, citing the homeowners’ personal incentive for maintenance.  
 
M. Allison moved to approve the Certificate of Completion, G. McLeod seconded.  
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
 
321 Sunny Hill Rd (Cont. FROM 2024-05-13, TO 2024-06-24) 
R. Harris cited Graves Engineerings’ inspection of 321 Sunny Hill Rd when explaining why not to 
issue a Certificate of Completion, including a need for stabilization of rain gardens and excessive on-
site mulch that would stifle vegetation. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Town Manager Screening Committee 
M. Allison explained the structure and time commitment of the TMSC, based on his experience as a 
screening committee member for the previous Town Managers exit. He noted that it includes a 
member from the Finance Committee, Select Board, Planning Board, a Member-at-Large and the 
Town Moderator. He emphasized that the last TMSC existed for an extended period of time, and R. 
Harris agreed that a 6-month timeline would be “optimistic” in the current market. 
 
M. Allison also asked about the change in the town’s chief role, from “CAFO” (Chief Administrative 
Financial Officer) to “Town Manager”. He inquired about how the decision was made, who made it, 
and whether there was any interest in this decision. M. Brenner believed it was part of a revision to 
the Town Charter, which R. Harris agreed with. 
 
M. Brenner asked board members about their interest in serving as the Planning Board’s 
representative on the TMSC. G. McLeod declined, citing how recently he joined. M. Allison declined, 
believing his frustration during his previous TMSC membership made him a poor candidate now. 
M. Allison moved to appoint M. Brenner to the Town Manager Screening Committee, G. 
McLeod seconded. Passed unanimously. 
 
Outdoor Dining Policy (CONTINUED) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
S. Harp and E. Young asked about the next steps in joining the Master Plan Steering Committee.  
R. Harris suggested emailing the Town Clerk and asking, while M. Allison recommended waiting a 
week and then going in-person to be sworn in at Town Hall.  
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: 
Zoom Technical Difficulties 
M. Brenner was deeply frustrated with the Town’s management of Zoom, noting that it stifled public 
participation, affected quorum, and is unfair to the public. He questioned the Town’s expectation to be 
trusted in handling other aspects of residents’ lives, given their difficulties handling this one. 
 
Recent Members & Public Participation 
M. Brenner welcomed the newest board member, G. McLeod, and the new Administrative Assistant, 
Logan O’Connell. M. Brenner mentioned the availability of positions on numerous committees, and M. 
Allison added that there are multiple forms of civic participation outside of explicit vacancies, such as 
Public Comment and submissions of interest. M. Brenner reiterated that the Planning Board invites 
Public Comments, and that the explicit timeslots for them are more of a control mechanism for 
contentious meetings.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  
G. McLeod moved to adjourn, M. Allison seconded. Passed unanimously. 
 
Meeting Adjourned 7:11 P.M. 
 
Documents used at meeting:  
Stormwater Plan, 255 Sunny Hill Rd 
Inspection Report, 680 Reservoir Rd 
Inspection Report, 321 Sunny Hill Rd 
 