===PAGE 1===
 
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair  
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair  
Amanda Reid, Clerk  
Matthew Allison, Member 
Glenn McLeod, Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly– Land Use Director 
Logan O’Connell – Administrative Asst 
MINUTES 
2024-09-09 
MEETING POSTED:  Yes 
ADDRESS:   Town Hall, 17 Main St  
TIME:    6:00 P.M. 
PRESENT:  Matthew Brenner  (Chair), Amanda Reid  (Clerk), Matthew Allison, Glenn McLeod  
ABSENT:  Timothy Willsmer  (Vice-Chair) 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE  
The meeting was called to order at 6:01 P.M. Matthew Allison led the Pledge of Allegiance.  
M. Brenner introduced Bernie Cahill from the MRPC, who was present to provide staffing assistance before 
the full-time Land Use Director’s ratifica tion. 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
Economic Development Committee  
Cathy Clark  (Chair of the Economic Development Committee) - new business being stifled by the length of 
time associated with the current permitting processes, noted issues with Parking Space requirements and 
associated permitting. Recommended examining the Town Code to determine which specific parts were 
most common roadblocks. 
Ana Lockwood - example of a new business being required to submit extensive plans and permits, despite 
using an existing facility with no change in floor plans . Mentioned delays from boards wanting approved 
decisions from other boards prior to their own decisions. 
Jeanne Dupre  – this is a common issue with existing space that was approved for a similar purpose in the 
past. Questioned the duplication of effort. 
DECISIONS  
3 Lancaster Ave – Special Permit for Sign  
The board reviewed the decisioni and found no issues, opting to endorse at the end of the meeting. 
NEW BUSINESS  

===PAGE 2===
2 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-09-09   
 
   
 
New Land Use Director (Christopher Reilly)  
M. Brenner - the appointment of a new Land Use Director requires ratification by the Select Board (done 
previously) and the Planning Board (happening tonight). M. Allison compared Mr. Reilly’s experience with 
the previous Land Use Director’s. 
A. Reid moved to ratify the appointment of Christopher Reilly as Land Use Director, as -presented by the 
Town Manager.  M. Allison seconded.  
Voice vote, passed unanimously.  
BOARD DISCUSSIONS  
Articles of Warrant – ADU Language Clarification (250 -4.1G, Use Table) ii 
Bernie Cahill recommended  replacing any reference to Accessory Dwelling Units “by Special Permit”  to 
“Accessory Dwelling Unit, Non-conforming" for clarity. This includes: 
• The “Residential Uses” column of Use Table 250 -4.1G, row 4.1H(2) 
• Sections D and E of the Article itself. 
M. Brenner confirmed with L. O’Connell - this change wouldn’t require a formal amendment or 
modification to the Town Warrant language since the deadline for submission was 2024-09-16. 
Glenn McLeod - concerned about the state’s removal of the requirement for one of the units to be 
occupant-owned, as well as the general impact of the state’s recent legislation on younger people’s ability 
to own property.  
M. Allison - Town bylaw previously required owner occupancy of the primary unit. Noted that the Planning 
Board had no authority to dictate a piece of property’s ownership model after the project was approved, 
citing the Board’s past approval of Whalom Luxury Apartments with the understanding that they would be 
rent-to-own, which didn’t end up happening.  
M. Allison moved to submit the Warrant Article as -presented to the Select Board for inclusion in the 
Town Warrant. A. Reid seconded.  
Voice vote, passed unanimously.  
260 Falulah Rd – 2 Year Extension (Site Plan Approval, Stormwater Management Permit)  
Application was initially approved with a 2-year timeframe to begin construction (a 1-year extension of 
normal limit. Applicants requesting a 2-year extensioniii due to delays from ongoing geotechnical research.  
B. Cahill - Board only has the ability to grant 1-year extensions per its rules and regulations. M. Allison - a 
substantive portion of the project was located outside of Lunenburg.  
The Board briefly discussed reaching out to Fitchburg to get more context on the project but opted to grant 
a 1-year extension instead.  
M. Allison moved to grant a 1 -year extension to the Site Plan Approval and Stormwater Management 
Permit of the 260 Falulah Rd project. A. Reid seconded.  
Voice vote, passed unanimously.  

===PAGE 3===
3 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-09-09   
 
   
 
ONGOING ITEMS  
MBTA Communities Act  
M. Brenner briefly discussed timeframes and upcoming dates related to the act. B. Cahill recommended the 
board wait until Chris Reilly (full -time Land Use Director) began work.  
G. McLeod - the public should learn about the various sides and responses from other Towns, Board should 
submit any language to the EOHLC for review before it goes to a vote at Town Meeting to avoid a by-law 
being approved Attorney General but still considered out-of-compliance by the EOHLC. 
M. Allison reminded the Board of the district options outlined in the MRPC presentationiv  at the 2024-07-
08 Planning Board Meeting. G. McLeod reiterated that the act’s zoning requirements were based on the 
number of family units, meaning more than one bedroom and no limits on the number of occupants. 
Water Supply Protection District  
The Board did not have any new developments to discuss.  
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
No new developments from the Chair, Land Use Director’s first day still pending.  
ABUTTING COMMUNITY NOTICES  
No concerns from the Board. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS  
Master Plan Steering Committee  
M. Brenner - meeting with contractors on 2024-09-10. Committee will be soliciting input at the Town Meet 
and Greet. 
Open Space Committee  
G. McLeod - no meeting & will meet on 2024-09-14 
Municipal Building Design Committee  
M. Allison - only able to attend 30 minutes of meeting due to conflict with Planning Board meeting. 
Meeting was first in over a year for group, noted a new impetus to form and agree upon an RFP put 
forward by the Chair in conjunction with the Town Manager and Assistant Town Manager.  
Noted the approval of $225,000 in ARPA funds for the group despite not having met, opined that the 
Town’s spending on studies in the last 12 years (approximately $1,000,000) was wasteful. 
Agricultural Commission  
The Board didn’t have a representative on the Agricultural Commission (AgCom) at the time.  
M. Brenner asked M. Allison about the history and purpose of the Board’s representation on it AgCom. A 
meeting of approximately 30 people in the Ritter Building led to AgCom’s creation. M. Allison opined the 

===PAGE 4===
4 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-09-09   
 
   
 
Town’s primary interests were financial, not the farming community or its needs. Recommended not having 
a new Planning Board liaison since the Select Board will provide one.  
M. Brenner will reach out to confirm whether AgCom is expecting a liaison.  
Capital Planning Committee  
M. Brenner - briefly held up by Town Manager transition and is waiting on some external factors before 
more extensive planning. 
Economic Development Committee  
G. McLeod - deferring to their public comments tonight. 
Stormwater Task Force  
T. Willsmer not present to report. 
Town Manager Screening Committee  
M. Brenner - group chose to use a firm to aid search process. Noted benefits of a 3rd-party / non-hiring 
communicator’s involvement for aligning expectations between Town and candidate. The chosen firm’s bid 
was most competitive. 
M. Allison asked how many groups responded, M. Brenner did not know off-hand. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission  
A. Reid - unable to attend previous meeting. 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee  
A. Reid - no meeting on Wednesday. 
MINUTES APPROVAL  
Minutes for approvalv include: 
• 2024-07-22 Public Hearing (240 Summer St)  
• 2024-08-12 Meeting 
• 2024-08-26 Meeting 
M. Brenner clarified for A. Reid that members absent from a meeting can vote on approval of its minutes , 
and briefly discussed minute-taking best practice with B. Cahill.  
A. Reid asked about the status of 255 Sunny Hill Rd’s Stormwater Management Permit  decision (deferred 
from the 08-26 meeting to tonight’s). L. O’Connell explained: Interim Land Use Director Richard Harris 
drafted the language, it went to Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini’s office for review with Town 
Counsel and is pending their input. 
M. Allison asked why only some public comments had addresses associated with them. L. O’Connell 
explained that he included the address (if provided) in a speaker’s first comment and omitted it in 
subsequent comments for space. B. Cahill suggested the Board use a sign -in sheet for the public to avoid 
this issue. 

===PAGE 5===
5 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2024-09-09   
 
   
 
M. Allison moved to approve the minutes for the 2024 -07-22 Public Hearing (240 Summer St), 2024-08-12 
Meeting, and 2024 -08-26 Meeting. A. Reid seconded.  
Voice vote, passed unanimously.  
MEETING SCHEDULE  
Upcoming meetings are 09-23 and 10-28 at 6:00 P.M. 
No meeting on 2024-10-14 due to holiday. 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
None at this time. 
BOARD COMMENT  
None at this time. 
ADJOURNMENT  
A. Reid moved to adjourn. M. Allison seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Meeting adjourned 7:34 P.M.  
Minutes by Logan O’Connell, Admin Asst . 
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED  
 
i 2024 -09-09_ 3 Lancaster Ave_ Decision Special Permit Approval Signed  
ii BM_ Accessory Dwelling Units – Affected Bylaw Provisions  
   BM_ Accessory Dwelling Units – Use Table 4.1G, Residentual Uses  
iii BM_ 2024 -09-04_ 260 Falulah Rd_ Extension Request Package  
iv MBTA Zoning Presentation  
v 2024 -07-22_ 240 Summer St_ Public Hearing Minutes  
   2024 -08-12_ Planning Board_ Minutes  
   2024 -08-26_ Planning Board_ Minutes  