===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Brenner Chair
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair
Amanda Reid Clerk
Matthew Allison Member
Adam Burney
 Member
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Jasmin Farinacci – Land Use Director
Jennifer Daigle– Admin Asst.
REVISED MINUTES
2025-09-08
Meeting posted: Yes
Address: Town Hall –17 Main St. Lunenburg, MA 01462
Time: 6:00 PM
Present: T. Willsmer, A. Reid, A. Burney, M. Brenner
Absent: none
CALL     TO ORDER / PLEDGE  
Chair M.Brenner called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M. 
PUBLIC COMMENT
None at this time. No public parties in person or in online waiting room.
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Per Chair M.Brenner, information given regarding fraud notice posted online and to OpenGov to all 
residents information to avoid scams related to current permitting process.  Chair gave notice to board 
members that the Planning Board Land use directors position has been posted and open for applications. 
Chair reminds public to be wary of Scams for applications before MA Planning Boards. Note residents to 
confirm with Town office to see if payment is required.  Warnings on Town Website and through social 
media. 
Brian Gingras, Building Commissioner will be at next meeting for training in OpenGov.
APPOINTMENTS
None
PUBLIC HEARINGS
ANR 830 Mass Ave Approval Not Required-  Continued from 08/25/25 
Grey Roy presenting for Dillis and Roy regarding updated information requested by the board. Verifying 
that there is enough prerequisite area.  Updated as built plan to new info packet. Chair verified that the 
included information satisfied the boards questions from prior hearing.
 8:23 Chair looks for Motion to Endorse
===PAGE 2===
2 of 6 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-09
A.Burney motion to endorse
T. Willsmer seconded
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner -Aye
 Endorsed 4-0.
1083 Northfield Road – Special Permit Conmon driveway PBSP-25-8, /Stormwater Management Permit  
PBSW-25-3 
Chair advised first heard under Board including M. Allison.  Refiled without Prejudice due to quorum issues.
Greg Roy and Tanner Cole presenting, Dillis and Roy appearing to summarize to application for Common driveway for 
addition of 5th driveway to meet board requirements. 
Greg Roy stated that issues surrounding inconsistency with Board have forced the pause on this application.  Permit 
seeking would allow access of common driveway by 5 lots. Town bylaw allows 4 lots. Appliant filed for variance to ask 
Zoning Board of Appeals to ask for this specific area due to frontage issues.  Construction of 5th driveway would create to 
large of a disturbance in wetlands.  Appeal was granted and filed with Registry of Deeds on same. 
Chair asks for public comment.  None at this time.
Chair asks for questions from the Board. A. Burney would like to know development process, why it was created as 5 lots 
and not subdivision. Discussion with Mr. Roy, Mr. Cole and board on the process of going through Con Comm and Zoning 
Board to have passed with variance. 
A. Reid states she read over Graves report of corrections and all seems like everything was corrected. 
A.Burney would like to see facility conditions spelled out prior to the discussion further and building permits issuance for 
the 5 lots for  common driveway,  addressing easement  which is a bylaw for the driveway and stormwater facilities, 
some manner of assoication attached to the deeds of the five lots that define responsibilities, financially equitability and 
create a mechanism for those financial paymnts to be received, managed and dispersed.
Mr. Roy states the Board usually has a “FAM” Finaincial Assurance Mechanism that assures maintenanaceof stormwater 
long them operation. Mr. Roy goes further to state that the operation and maintenance and plowing of the driveway 
and shared faciliies. Typically these are put in the requirement to the conditions with stiupations, then a lawyer prepares 
that to your Board prior to building permit or requirements set by the Board. 
Board discussion regarding issuance based on special conditions. Greg Roy ammenable to  special conditions. No 
objections to the plan. 
Chair asks for public comment. None at this time.
Chair asks for input on Special contitions from the Board. A. Burney states he would like to see the conditions set before 
issuance of building permits.  Chair agrees. Chair M. Brenner asks A. Burney for a list of special conditions. 
M. Brenner asks A. Burney to spell out what conditions he would like to see listed.  A. Burney lists the following and 
would like these to be listed of record.
• Stormwater operations maintenance plan language should span both permits. 
• Common driveway special conditions
• Maintenance of the Stormwater system
• Submission of the shared ownership operation and maintenance plan for the common driveway and 
stormwater.
• Submission of Annual reports for Stormwater system
===PAGE 3===
3 of 6 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-09
• Maintenance including snow removal  for the driveway
• long term and short term (ex. driveway resurfacing and collapse plan)
• Vegetation maintenance along driveway
Storm water special conditions
• no further division of lots without further of review modification to lots
• any further increase or the addition of impervious surface as depicted on (approved plan with reference to 
approved date)
Chair notes  that Applicant seeking waiver for common driveway to be constructed with recycled asphalt pavement or 
compacted gravel. Mr. Roy advised would like to use milling recycled from when a previous road is milled, citing reduced 
cost and sustainability.  Chair cites he thought the Board has outlines that are specific.  A. Burney refers board to #6 
under C , Design criteria. A. Burney discusses the criteria per the bylaw.  Discussion by the Board that the language is 
confusing. Chair Brenner calls for addressing this issue  for clairification under 10/02 warrant.
M. Brenner asking if there are any other special conditions needed . A. Burney and Greg Roy reworked wording of 
conditions as listed above.
Motion: A. Burney makes a motion to move to close the public hearings for 1083 Northfield Road 
-Common Driveway/ Stormwater Management Permits
Second: T.Willsmer
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner -Aye Hearing closed.
Motion: To approve the Special Permit for 1083 Northfield Road Common Driveway with all Standard 
Conditions and Special Conditions as discussed 
So moved: A. Reid
Second: T.Willsmer
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner-Aye passed.
Application Approved – 4-0
Motion: To approve the Stormwater Permit  with all Standard Conditions and Special Conditions as 
discussed for 1083 Northfield Road  to 2025-08-25 at 6:05 P.M.
So Moved: T. Willsmer
Second: A. Reid
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner-Aye passed.
Application Approved - 4-0.
===PAGE 4===
4 of 6 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-09
 
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Rogers 82 Highland Street-didn’t hear after call to order that the pledge of allegiance was said.  Chair 
speaks with citizen to have discussion at the Planning Board office about this question.
DECISIONS : 499 Northfield Road - The board chair and admin will rework the decision template due to the need 
to update to a more detailed template.  Will rework with changes and submit to the board before or on new 
meeting for signature. 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS
First Right of Refusal 222 West Townsend Road – to purchase parcel of Land by the Town of Lunenburg. 
Chair advised no compelling reason to acquire the property.   A. Burney agrees this is not viable at this time. 
Chair asks T.Willsmer if this was discussed during OpenSpace and T. Willsmer advised they did and voted 
were in agreement to not purchase.
Motion: A.Burney recommended To waive first right of refusal.
Second: T. Willsmer-seconded
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner -Aye 
Right of refusal accepted 4-0
Master Plan Steering committee would like to present at Special Town meeting where the Planning Board is 
on the process to make the town aware. Board agrees that presentation of the information would be a 
great idea.
Review of MBTA Communities bylaw – discussion of schedule of public hearing dates off calendar or 
10/27. 
9/8, Tonight review draft sent by Community scale
9/22 review for changes that need to be made, any further comment or changes
9/30 Receive final copy draft from Community Scale 
10/02 language due 
Discussion by the board on details regarding the draft posted in the shared folder. Language details need to 
be reworked for clarity.
M. Brenner will set expectation to Community scale so that they will submit final copy by Tuesday 9/30 to 
make sure it is ready for the warrant.
Master Plan Steering Committee Document-  Answer questions from  Master Plan steering committee. A. 
Burney provided an 11 page document outlining what he feels are concerns regarding the MPSC’ 
document. A. Burney outlines several of the points of concern. 8 elements have info and developed goals.  
===PAGE 5===
5 of 6 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-09
Goals are lofty ideas that may never be achieved. Some of the objectives read more like goals. A. Burney 
gives example in document “make more housing that is not single family.”  A. Burney goes further to 
outline current bylaws . Identified that the plan needs more actionable goals.  A more detailed direction 
that can be translated to community.  Plan for goals with larger objectives that would be actionable.
Lack of a planner makes it rough, defining responsibilites within planning board who has now taken on 
more of a role.  Language may need to be more actionable. 
Will come back to this on 9/22 meeting as more discussion will be necessary.
More discussion with Rami will be needed to clarify the role and responsibilities.  Chair will initiate 
discussion with Rami. A. Burney is also available to walk through with Chair. 
Master Plan Steering Committee
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer –would like Planning Boards permission to tell the Town about work at Special 
Town Meeting.  Allset to present.  Discussion regarding the roles and responsibilities and to how to define 
the responsibilities therin. 
Open Space Committee
Per T. Willsmer – Brief discussion on adding additional seat.  T.Willsmer will get a request from Open Space 
and will to deliver to the Chair to add to future agenda.
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee
Per Chair M.Brenner will be meeting this coming Monday. Needs to run opposite meeting schedule as 
Planning Board. 
Capital Planning Committee
Peter Beardmore is Chair even though no longer on School Board. Lofty goals that we want to move on but will look 
beyond this year due to budgetary and administrative issues. 
Economic Development Committee
Per Chair M. Brenner- Town Government Meet and greet is 10/02 at Smokestack Roasters. Members of community and 
town government are encouraged to attend. Future business owners especially encouraged to attend. 
Storm Water Task Force
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer –have not met since last meeting. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission
Per Clerk A. Reid –  members of board were not able to attend due to other committments
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee
Per Clerk A. Reid – meets this week on wednesday.
MEETING SCHEDULE
The upcoming meetings are 9/22, 10/27, 11/10 at 6:00 P.M.
MINUTES APPROVAL
8/25/2025
Motion: A.Burney -moved to approve
Second: A.Reid -seconded
Vote:     A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner -Aye. 
===PAGE 6===
6 of 6 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-09
Minutes approved 4-0
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS
None
ADJOURNMENT
Motion: A. Burney - motion to adjourn moved.
Second: T. Willsmer -seconded
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, M.Brenner -Aye. 
Meeting adjourned.
Minutes by Jennifer Daigle, Admin Asst.
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED