===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid  Clerk 
Matthew Allison Member 
Glenn McLeod  Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly – Land Use Director 
Logan O'Connell – Admin Asst. 
 
MINUTES 
2025-04- 
 
   
 
* -- Matthew Allison was present for Executive Session only. 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Matthew Brenner called the meeting to order at 5:30 P.M. 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to enter into executive session and re-enter into Open Session pursuant to M.G.L. 
Ch. 30 s. 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to a Public Hearing if an open meeting may have 
detrimental effect.  
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  (Roll Call). 
G. McLeod – Aye;  M. Allison – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; 
T. Willsmer – Aye;  M. Brenner – Aye; 
The Board entered into executive session at 5:32 P.M. (See separate minutes when published). 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE 
Beginning the Open Session, Matthew Brenner greeted the public at 6:10 P.M. The pledge of allegiance 
was led by Glenn McLeod. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
 
 
APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED (ANR) 
MEETING POSTED: Yes 
ADDRESS: Town Hall – 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
TIME: 6:00 P.M. 
PRESENT: Matthew Brenner (Chair), Timothy Willsmer (Vice Chair), Amanda Reid (Clerk), Glenn 
McLeod  
ABSENT: Matthew Allison* 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
171 Arbor St (PANR-2025-06) 
Brian Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) presented for applicant PSG Realty 393-435, LLC. Property began as 
a subdivision but was reworked after uncovering priority habitat (blandings turtle). Previous permitting 
includes Common Driveway (PBSP-24-3 in OpenGov), Notice of Intent, ANR for land-swap with adjacent 
property (PANR-2025-03) to meet frontage requirements. 
The Board reviewed the plansi and had no issues. 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to endorse the ANR plan for 171 Arbor St. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
494 Electric Ave – Site Plan Approval (SPA), Stormwater Mgmt Permit (SMP). (cont. from 2025-03-10)ii 
Atty Jeff Avini represented applicant D&A Lunenburg, LLC.  
C. Reilly provided the draft decisioniii he’d worked on with J. Avini. Specific provisions included for 
neighborhood concerns (easement of road to the Town, signage to prevent parking on abutters’ property, 
6-month review of circulation & safety). The sequence of two conditions were swapped for procedural flow 
of granting the easement to the Town. M. Brenner invited public comment – none at this time. 
The Board discussed Town Counsel’s non-response on this application. M. Brenner is less comfortable 
proceeding without his feedback but understands the necessity. C. Reilly noted that zoning bylaw provides 
for the assumption that no response means no concerns. 
C. Reilly confirmed that this application doesn’t meet the criteria of a Shopping Center in Town bylaw. 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to close the public hearing on 494 Electric Ave. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to approve the Site Plan Review and Stormwater Management Permit for 494 
Electric Avenue with Standard Conditions and Special Conditions as presented and discussed. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
 
213 Electric Ave – SMP (cont. from 2025-03-10) 
Per C. Reilly this was continued for the Town peer reviewer Graves Engineering, Inc (GEI) for feedbackiv on 
confirmatory test-pits during construction, included as a special condition of the draft decisionv. 
M. Brenner invited public comment – none at this time. The Board reviewed the draft decision. C. Reilly 
confirmed the conditions included a requirement for recording the decision by reference to property deed. 
 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to close the Public Hearing for 213 Electric Avenue SMP. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
===PAGE 3===
3 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to approve the Stormwater Management Permit for 213 Electric Ave, including  
the plan of record, with all Standard Conditions and the test-pit Special Condition as  
previously discussed. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
The Board endorsed the decision for the above votes. 
711 Mass Ave – De Minimis Change to SPA, 2021 (cont. from 2025-03-10) 
Dan Sheehan (Haley Ward) presented for applicant FWP Realty Partners, LLC. Peer reviewvi from GEI came 
back. Minor grading change for units 1 and 2 addressed in revised planvii. Snow storage relocated to 
between units 3 and 7. 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to close the Public Hearing for De Minimis change to 711 Mass Ave Site Plan  
Approval and Special Permit 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to accept the change as De Minimis. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to approve the De Minimis change as per plan of record. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Vote:  Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
 
994 Northfield Rd – SPA (cont. from 2025-03-10) 
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) presented for applicant Town of Lunenburg Conservation Commission. Was 
continued to incorporate revisions for public comments & allow align permitting timeline with 
Conservation Commission (ConComm), which issued Order of Conditions for this plan on 03-19.  
Project doesn’t need SMP from the Board but does need compliance with MassDEP’s Stormwater Mgmt. 
Standards, which ConComm reviews. Proposed wetland replication area revised per ConComm feedback. 
Row of naturalized shrubs added to discourage public from walking onto golf course / abutting properties. 
M. Brenner invited public comment. 
Laura Caron-Gustus (19 Burke St) owns 994 Northfield Rd (Settler’s Crossing Golf Course), was confused 
why application was advertised with this address. L. O’Connell explained – the application is actually 
pursuant to 994 Northfield Rd Rear (Map 37 Parcel 15), which is separate land. This will be clarified in 
upcoming documents. Per C. Reilly the Assessors assign address numbers based on Fire Dept 
recommendations. 
Tanya Eberlin manages Settler’s Crossing – noted trespass incidents / that responding police weren’t aware 
of proposed parking. Concerned about parking lot’s seclusion. (Out of order): L. O’Connell clarified the 
===PAGE 4===
4 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
Police Department has an established recipient notified of applications through OpenGov who reviewed 
this without comment early January. 
Michelle Matthew (914 Northfield Rd) lives across from proposed site. Gathered signatures from 13 
neighbors who object. Concerned about partying, illegal dumping, etc at new parking lot. Per C. Reilly 
installing security devices / cameras is common solution for this, can be part of approval conditions. 
Arthur Dragoslis (971 Northfield Rd) opined neighborhood opposes this / no parking new parking is 
needed to enjoy Table Rock. Opined row of shrubs noted by G. Roy is insufficient for safety. Noted history 
of illegal dumping at existing entrance & other locations on Northfield Rd. T. Willsmer acknowledged but 
noted the other locations are private land which the Town doesn’t maintain. 
M. Brenner emphasized the Planning Board’s limited discretion in Site Plan Review process. C. Reilly noted 
that Site Plan Review can be conditioned but not denied. 
Mary Wilson (138 Whiting St) is Chair of Conservation Commission. Said ConComm had numerous requests 
for safer & improved access to Table Rock. Town spent money on land (purchase only 60% grant-funded). 
(Out of order): M. Wilson presented annotated photos of the existing entrance; emphasized dangers of 
walking on road’s narrow shoulders & potential for public confusion from private property signage.  
A. Dragoslis noted a large sign pointing to the trail wasn’t in the pictures & opined it was walkable as-is. 
Cory Schnepper (872 Northfield Rd) Supports increased access to conservation land, cited the Lane 
conservation area as example. Juliana Webber (872 Northfield Rd) is a field ecologist, commended the 
plantings included in plan. 
Chris Martins (981 Northfield Rd) asked why plan isn’t expanding existing parking across the street to avoid 
wetlands impacts. (Out of order): Noted other public access points exist. M. Wilson noted they fit 1 car 
each / there’s no place with access for 2+ cars. 
Bob Pease (11 Wintergreen Ct) served on Conservation Commission during this project. Noted 
Conservation has zero tax-dollars for maintaining lands (including potential cameras). All trail creation, 
routine trash removal, etc is done by volunteers. Opined the earlier concerns will be mitigated by heavier 
public use of land. Willing to help demarcate border between Table Rock and Settler’s Crossing. 
Discussion continued and touched on possible liability for golf ball damage, potential loitering & dumping, 
and budgeting for security cameras. Cheap cameras are available but possibly inadequate for providing 
evidence. B. Pease reiterated limited scope of Site Plan Review process. 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to close the Public Hearing for 994 Northfield Rd Rear. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
The Board briefly discussed conditioning to resolve address ambiguity and golf ball risks. 
 
 
 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to approve the Site Plan Review for 994 Northfield Rd Rear with all Standard  
Conditions and two special conditions: (1) applicant puts up park-at-own-risk signage, (2)  
applicant petitions to get address changed so it doesn’t appear to be the same address as  
Settler’s Crossing golf course to the public. 
===PAGE 5===
5 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
485 Leominster-Shirley Rd – SPA 
A. Reid read the public hearing notice, hearing opened 8:31 P.M. 
Applicant Ryan McGlothlin (Silo Electric LLC) presented. Worked previously with Town to craft solar zoning 
bylaw that was passed. Project purpose is for Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) used to store energy 
from solar panels & discharge it as needed. 
Steve Glowacki (R.J. O’Connell & Associates Inc) presentedviii. Site is approx. 6.57 acres. Area of interest is 
approx. 1300 sqft, facility itself is approx. 5000 sqft & categorized as “Medium” BESS under zoning bylaw. 
BESS consists of battery storage cabinets set on concrete pads enclosed in 50’x120’ security fence. Gravel 
area on site used to navigate equipment. Site served by electrical poles coming off main road. System is fed 
at non-peak times & discharged at peak times. Circulation maintained for emergency vehicle access. 
Stormwater: existing swale will be moved to east side. Net increase of impervious area is approx. 900 sqft. 
M. Brenner noted the report from GEIix found no issues. R. McGlothlin noted the Fire Dept & Police Dept’s 
previous feedback was implemented. 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to close the public hearing for 485 Leominster-Shirley Rd Site Plan Review. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to approve the Site Plan Review for 485 Leominster-Shirley Rd as-presented with  
 Standard Conditions. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
1523 Mass Ave – Special Permit (Common Driveway) 
A. Reid read the public hearing notice, hearing opened 8:48 P.M. 
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) presented for applicant Proctor Mass Ave Realty Trust. Noted Ryan Proctor (a D&R 
employee) wasn’t presenting since he’s planning a house on this lot. Property has an existing common 
driveway, lot at 1523 was historically used as single-family residence. Since house was moved off-site in 
2000s, the use as a common driveway has technically lapsed (one branch goes to empty lot). 
Three waivers requested from Common Driveway bylaw §250-6.4(C)[7], all reviewed with Fire Chief: 
1. Minimum pavement width of 18 ft: 
Use current width instead. Entrance to be widened slightly per Fire Dept. feedback. 
2. Longitudinal grade not steeper than 2% within 75 ft. of street’s right-of-way: 
Use slightly steeper existing grade. 
3. Rounded at a street intersection or cutback to provide curb radius of 30+ ft: 
Use existing curb radii (20 ft. on western side). 
Noted site includes wetlands, Notice of Intent has been filed with Conservation Commission. 
The Board discussed & had no concerns since Fire Dept. reviewed waivers prior. 
===PAGE 6===
6 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to close the public hearing for 1523 Mass Ave Special Permit. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to approve the Special Permit for Common Driveway as per the plan of record for 
  1523 Mass Ave with Standard Conditions. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
DECISIONS 
The Board reviewed two SMP decisions: 255 Sunny Hill Rd and 560 Goodrich St. (The decision for 213 
Electric Ave was signed just after its public hearing). The Board found no issues and endorsed both. 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
Zoning Workshop – Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Floodplain Bylaws (FIRM) 
Per C. Reilly – Town Counsel suggested minor changes which don’t need formal review by the Planning 
Board, which will be finalized for the Warrant’s printing on April 7th. A Public Hearing for these will likely be 
scheduled for April 28th. The State finalized the model bylaw for Accessory Dwelling Units approx. 2 weeks 
ago. Sent Lunenburg’s draft FIRM bylaw to Katie Paight (Dept. Of Conservation & Recreation), she had no 
comments. 
M. Brenner noted his resent presentation with C. Reilly to the Select Board on these amendments. 
G. McLeod asked about conflicting information on the max total number of ADUs. Per C. Reilly - one ADU is 
provided as a “protected use” under the Dover Amendment and a Special Permit can be required for any 
thereafter. M. Brenner outlined a theoretical edge-case in which a pre-existing ADU results in 4 total 
dwelling units on a lot. 
Standard Operating Procedures 
Per C. Reilly – Recent decisions outline the distinct Standard Conditions for Site Plan Approvals, Special 
Permits, and Stormwater Management Permits.  
Suggested a comprehensive review of Standard Operating Procedures, noting the De Minimis change 
approved tonight didn’t meet the published criteria to be considered “de minimis”. 
ABUTTING COMMUNITY NOTICES 
None of concern. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
Per T. Willsmer – have not met since last meeting. 
Open Space Committee 
Per G. McLeod – have not met since last meeting. 
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
M. Allison absent. 
===PAGE 7===
7 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
Capital Planning Committee 
Per M. Brenner – met last week for new Town Manager to review the Interim Town Manager’s 
recommendations. Some paperwork missing from transfer to new Town Manager. 
Economic Development Committee 
Per G. McLeod – have not met since last meeting. 
Storm Water Task Force 
Per T. Willsmer – met last week, going well. Continuing to workshop fee structures, including amounts & 
communications. Brief presentation slated for next Town Meeting to introduce Stormwater Utility concept. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
Per A. Reid – have not met since last meeting. 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
Per A. Reid – met, mostly covered budgetary concerns. Mass Ave project mentioned at last Planning Board 
meeting undated, likely 5 years out. 
MINUTES APPROVAL 
2025-03-10: Incomplete, deferred to next meeting. 
MEETING SCHEDULE 
Upcoming meetings are 04-14 and 04-28 at 6:00 P.M. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS 
M. Brenner thanked the Board. 
Logan O’Connell (711 Page St) suggested discussing public-facing tools like SeeClickFix for “311 needs” like 
public dumping with the Select Board. M. Brenner noted that it’s ultimately the responsibility of the 
landowner to resolve dumping issues on their property and acknowledged illegal dumping’s frequency. 
ADJOURNMENT 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to adjourn. 
Second:  A. Reid 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Meeting adjourned 9:27 P.M. 
Minutes by Logan O'Connell, Admin Asst. 
  
===PAGE 8===
8 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-03-24  
 
   
 
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED 
 
i 2025-03-10 Plan of Land in Lunenburg, Mass prepared for PSG Realty 393-435, LLC. No. 23-267C – Tauper Land Survey 
ii See PBSA-24-4 and PBSW-24-1 in OpenGov. 
iii 2025-03-24 Staff Report – Town of Lunenburg 
iv 213 Electric Avenue Stormwater Management Review – Graves Engineering, Inc 
v 2025-03-24 213 Electric Ave Stormwater Management Permit Decision – Town of Lunenburg 
vi 2025-03-21 711 Massachusetts Avenue Site Plan Modification Review – Graves Engineering, Inc 
vii 2025-03-20 Site Plan for Massachusetts Avenue in Lunenburg, Massachusetts, No. 5-G-238. - Whitman & Bingham Associates 
viii 2025-01-06 Site Plan of 485 Leominster-Shirley Road Lunenburg, Massachusetts #23033 – R.J. O’Connell & Associates, Inc. 
ix 2025-03-20 485 Leominster Shirley Road Site Plan Review – Graves Engineering, Inc. 