===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice 
Chair 
Amanda Reid Clerk 
Adam Burney
 Membe
r 
Vacant                              Member 
 
 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, 
opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Richard Harris –  
Interim Planning Director 
 
 
11/10/2025  Minutes 
Roll Call: M. Brenner, T. Willsmer, A. Reid, A. Burney 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
M Brenner called to order at 6:02pm 
2. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
M. Brenner stated that the slides for the two warrant articles are ready and submitted for 
the Special Town Meeting. Construction is coming along nicely. We have walls up, 
electrical is installed, sheet rock and paint are happening. A new Admin has been hired and 
will be joining us in the next couple of weeks.  
3. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
• 255 Sunny Hill Rd, PBSW-25-4 Stormwater (continued from 10/27/25) 
Brain Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) represented the applicant. Stated same plan 
that was submitted and approved by Conservation, was only missing 2 pipe locations. 
All back taxes have been paid. After discussing riverfront area, rain gardens, and 
plantings. A. Burney moved to close hearing. A. Reid, Second. M. Brenner reminded T. 
Willsmer he cannot vote as he was not present when hearing opened. The Board 
discussed wanting extra inspections in addition to the standard conditions. A. Burney 
moved to approve Stormwater PBSW-25-4 including all standard conditions and the 
additional condition that inspections be conducted at the pre-tree removal, the erosion 
and sedimentation control in installation phase, and the bottom inspections for all the 
stormwater facilities. Including cut sheets of media. To be submitted for the rain garden 
and final inspection. A. Reid, Second 
Roll Call Vote: A Burney, AYE; A Reid, AYE; M Brenner, AYE (3/0) 
• 560 Mulpus Rd, PBSP-25-7 Special Permit – Ground mounted solar 
    Evan St. Thomas Dutill (Team Sunshine) represented applicant. To install ground 
mounted solar. Have already been approved by Conservation and ZBA. Discussed having 
interconnection approvals uploaded, how panels will be mounted to the ground, if 
trenching is going to be done and/or any disturbances between the racks. A. Burney 

===PAGE 2===
moved to approve with standard special permit conditions and to be modified to remove 
any not applicable to the solar development. If the Board of Health requires modification 
that substantially alters the location, size, or orientation of the solar panels, the applicant 
returns to Planning Board. The interconnection approval between owner and Unitil be 
uploaded prior to issuance of building permit. A. Reid, Second 
Roll Call Vote: A Burney, AYE; A Reid, AYE; T Willsmer, AYE; M Brenner AYE (4/0) 
4. BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
• Open Space Committee 
❖ Change one seat from community member to Agricultural Commission 
❖ Establish Open Space as independent committe, not ad hoc of Planning Board 
Mike Toohill, Chair, Community Member on behalf of the commission, they have an 
empty community member seat and would like to change it to an Agricultural 
representative. M Brenner commented that it makes sense, and the board agreed. A 
Burney asked if a member of the Agricultural Commission or an agricultural minded 
person. M Toohill stated it should be a commission member. Discussed that the 
committee would get to appoint their member as the other boards do. They would like to 
stay a 7-member appointed board, not elected, with the Planning Board the appointing 
body. A Burney stated it should be brought before select board as they appoint 
commission members, however Planning is an elected board so not out of scope. It 
should be presented at spring meeting. M Toohill stated he has not spoken to the 
Agricultural Committee yet and wants to also speak to the town manager. Determined 
best course of action is M Toohill is to write the new By-law and send it to the board for 
review and the Board will endorse that language before the B y-law Review Committee. 
5. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
• Master Plan Steering Committee 
MT. Willsmer, unable to attend last meeting, meet this Wednesday 
• Open Space Committee 
See above 
• Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
M Brenner, discussions continue. Took a tour of Ritter and Town hall looking at the 
building structures. The town hall is solid. Could it be used as 1st fl meeting spaces and 
2nd fl PAC studio? Could Ritter be used as main town government building? Board needs 
to see and discuss more, but progress is being made 
• Capital Planning Committee 
M Brenner, moving forward, a little behind. Will meet again after holiday 
• Economic Development Committee 
M Brenner, has not met since last meeting, next meeting is in December 
• Storm Water Task Force 
T Willsmer, working on getting a new contractor/designer, was unhappy with the 
original. Waiting for Special Town Meeting. There was no meeting in November, next 
meeting 1st week of December 
• Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
A Reid, no update, no one attended 
• Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
A Reid, no meeting until December 
6. MEETING SCHEDULE 
11/24, 12/15 
===PAGE 3===
7. BOARD COMMENT 
A Burney, attended Southern New England American Planners Association conference and 
Mass APA voted free chapter membership to Planning & Zoning Members. Chapter Only. 
National dues still required. The CPTC classes are starting again. The CPTC conference is 
coming in March. It is a Saturday but a great way to learn and network with people doing 
the same as you.  
Housing – MBTA Chapa – Municipal Engagement Initiative, it is where they bring their 
housing planners and others to town to setup a grass roots housing advocates to start and 
support and talk housing issues, drive process from bottom up. In the application process 
now. Something to consider as we start looking at other housing options, mixed-use options. 
8. ADJOURNMENT 
T Willsmer moved to adjourn, A Reid Second 
Roll Call Vote: A Burney, AYE; A Reid, AYE, T Willsmer, AYE; M Brenner AYE (4/0) 
Adjourned 7:28pm 
 