===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid  Clerk 
Matthew Allison Member 
Glenn McLeod  Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly – Land Use Director 
Logan O'Connell – Admin Asst. 
 
MINUTES 
2025-01-27 
 
   
 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE  
Matthew Brenner  called the meeting to order at 6:03 P.M. The pledge of allegiance was led by Matthew 
Allison.  
PUBLIC COMMENT  
None at this time. 
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT i 
C. Reilly - the Master Plan project is stalling. Asking the consultant for a complete draft with 
implementation action items included is an option. Recommend discussion at the next Planning Board 
meeting. 
ANRs  
763 Massachusetts Avenue  
Steve Ballard  (Haley Ward, Inc) presented for applicant FWP Realty Partners, LLC. Site is a former funeral 
home, has existing septic to be converted to sewer. Narrow area between Chestnut and Mass Ave allows 
for sewer to go to Mass Ave while remaining compliant with Town by-laws. Meets minimum lot size for 
Limited Business residential district. 
T. Willsmer moved to endorse the ANR for 763 Mass Ave.  
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
The mylar plan wasn’t brought on-site for the meeting. Board Members will come into the Planning Office 
to sign tomorrow. 
 
MEETING POSTED:  Yes 
ADDRESS: Town Hall – 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
TIME: 6:00 P.M. 
PRESENT: Matthew Brenner (Chair), Timothy Willsmer (Vice Chair),  
Amanda Reid (Clerk , REMOTE), Matthew Allison, Glenn McLeod. 
ABSENT: None 

===PAGE 2===
2 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS  
494 Electric Ave  – SPA (co nt. to 2025 -02 -10)  
(Out of order). Applicant requested continuance via EMail prior to meeting.  
T. Willsmer moved to continue the public hearing for 494 Electric Ave to 2025 -02-10 at 6:05 P.M. 
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
558 & 560 Goodrich St  – SMP, SP  
Chris Anderson  (Hannigan Engineering) presented for applicant Easterbrook Nominee Trust. Special Permit 
is to convert a pre-existing non-conforming common driveway into a conforming common driveway under 
current by-laws.  
Addressing peer review commentsii from Graves Engineering, Inc (GEI) : 
• Turning Radius - plan revised to include 30 ft. radius at Southerly intersection. 30 ft. radius infeasible for 
North side, but Fire Department comfortable with 20 ft. after receiving data on turning maneuvers for 
their largest vehicle & a C. Anderson reviewing site with Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan . 
• Pavement Depth - will conduct in-situ testing of pavement during construction to confirm the depth, 
clean up damaged pavement, prevent further deterioration. 
• Parcel Configuration – there are two “560 Goodrich St” parcels on Assessor’s map due to history of 
land’s acquisition. Both are in common ownership. Approval Not Required (ANR) plan to be submitted 
to merge them pending favorable action from Board.  
The Board briefly discussed conditioning. C. Reilly noted a previously discussed requirement for a Common 
Driveway maintenance agreement wasn’t part of the Board’s Standard Conditions. Per C. Anderson , a 
maintenance agreement had to be provided as part of the Building Permit process. 
M. Allison asked how many properties the Common Driveway would serve. C. Anderson  – the driveway 
currently serves 3 properties (560 Goodrich St, 558 Goodrich St, 564 Goodrich St), and will serve 4 lots once 
the planned home is constructed. 
M. Allison asked about remaining waivers. Per C. Anderson, only other was for 250-6.4(7)(c)[7] (requiring 
8’x25’ turnarounds at 300 ft intervals), substituting the existing 100 ft cul-de-sac which has more room. 
T. Willsmer moved to waive the turning radius requirement ( 250-6.4(7)(c)[4]) as-presented on the 
approved plans iii. 
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
T. Willsmer moved to waive the turnaround requirement (250 -6.4(7)(c)[7]) as-presented in the plan of 
record. 
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
M. Brenner asked for a summary of the Stormwater plan. C. Anderson explained: majority of site’s design is 
accommodated with infiltration trenches along proposed expansion of driveway. Other sections are only 
small increase of pavement, compensated for with infi ltration trench along down-gradient portion of 
driveway. Proposed house will have own dry-well system to capture roof runoff and provide additional 
mitigation. 
T. Willsmer moved to close the public hearings for 558 & 560 Goodrich St’s Special Permit and 
Stormwater Management Permit.  
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer  – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
Hearing closed 6:29 PM.  
The Board discussed conditioning further. The existing Standard Conditions (SCs) for Common Driveways 
don’t explicitly require a maintenance agreement recorded on the deed. The SCs for Stormwater 
Management Permits require a maintenance agreement for all common areas. M. Allison suggested adding 
this to Common Driveway SCs in the future. 
T. Willsmer moved to approve the Stormwater Management Permit for 558 & 560 Goodrich St with 
Standard Conditions.  
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
T. Willsmer moved to approve the Special Permit for Common Driveway at 558 & 560 Goodrich St with 
Standard Conditions and a special condition for maintenance  as described by C. Reilly . 
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
255 Sunny Hill Rd  
Justin LeClair  (McCarty Engineering) presented for applicant MN 122 Main LLC.  Addressing peer review 
commentsiv from GEI, plans were revised to include a construction detail of the riprap swale, and a 
stabilized construction entrance and associated detail. Swale’s slopes will be maintained as close to the 
existing grade as possible, will be constructed with 8-inch+ riprap. 
M. Allison asked about using native ground as recommended in GEI’s 7th comment. J. LeClair clarified that 
maintaining the natural grade was the most important factor and emphasized the small amount of fill. He 
noted that GEI’s comments had no issues with the core design of the Stormwater System. 
T. Willsmer moved to close the public hearing for 255 Sunny Hill Rd.  
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
T. Willsmer moved to approve the Stormwater Management Permit for 255 Sunny Hill Rd with Standard 
Conditions, pending GEI’s upcoming response.  
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
 
DECISIONS  

===PAGE 4===
4 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
C. Reilly noted the 171 Arbor St Special Permit decisionv included a special condition requiring a legal 
framework for maintenance of common areas to be recorded on the deed. The Board discussed this 
requirement within Stormwater Permits. 
M. Allison noted the additional requirement for common area maintenance in Stormwater Permits is used 
when multiple lots all depend on a similar drainage system , suggested adding it to the set of Stormwater 
SCs when updating them. 
C. Reilly asked the Board for context on single-family Stormwater Management Permits , since normally 
drainage for multiple lots is managed by the full Subdivision Approval process. M. Allison opined the limits 
on the Board’s discretion in the ANR process spurs single-family Stormwater Permits, although single-family 
construction rarely disturbs more than an acre / triggers the bylaw.  
Per M. Brenner the Board mostly receives applications for individual reduced frontage lots; Definitive 
Subdivision applications are rare . The updated Common Driveway bylaw provides further alternatives for 
developers, although the driveways aren’t Town-maintained. 
The Board members endorsed each of the decisions. A. Reid would come the next day to sign (attending 
remotely). 
ZONING WORKSHOP  
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Bylaw  
C. Reilly summarized the state-mandated changes encompassed in this bylaw draftvi: 
• Homeowners can now build one ADU by right (i.e. without a special permit) 
• Homeowners can build an additional detached ADU, but not by right. Lunenburg can and will require a 
Special Permit for this. 
• In absence of local setback regulations (which are included in this draft), ADUs can be placed anywhere 
on a property, including up to 5 ft from the property line. M. Brenner explained the safety benefits of 
local setback requirements for the public (e.g. firefighter access).  
The draft also includes local considerations: 
• A Special Permit from the ZBA is required for detached ADUs or multiple ADUs on the property. 
G. McLeod opined the State is overreaching with these changes and emphasized educating the public on 
the individual changes, such as the inability to require that one of the units be owner-occupied. M. Brenner 
noted that the Board’s ability to achieve local ly relevant work is strained by the constant adjustment to 
State mandates. 
The Board discussed the timeline for submitting finalized Warrant Article language to add this bylaw.  
Per C. Reilly, the Town Manager set a deadline for the motion by end-of-week (2025-01-31), although the 
Warrant itself closes 2025-03-17. Members were confused by the unusually small timeframe. M. Brenner 
opined such drastic deadline changes needed to be communicated further in advance. Per C. Reilly the 
transition to a new Town Manager is a driving factor . M. Allison was deeply frustrated. 
C. Reilly explained the “Four Corners” principle (a requirement for a Warrant Article’s content to stay 
within the “intent” of the original motion). The Board will submit feedback on the draft by end-of-week. 

===PAGE 5===
5 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
Floodplain Map Updates  
Per C. Reilly, the Federal government updates Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) through FEMA. Along 
with a FIRM update, a model bylaw (compliant with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
(NPDES)) was provided to Lunenburg. Due to the highly technical nature, M. Allison and C. Reilly discussed 
resources for implementation support such as the Department of Conservation and Recreation and the 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission.  
BOARD DISCUSSIONS  
Master Plan Steering Committee (MPSC) Composition  
M. Brenner received confirmation that a quorum is based on existing seats, not filled seats (i.e. an 8-
member Board with only 4 seats filled can’t have a 3-member meeting), and suggested soliciting MPSC 
member feedback before changing composition. M. Allison noted that as the parent Board of the MPSC, 
the Planning Board is ultimately responsible for the Master Plan. T. Willsmer noted three vacant positions 
that could be eliminated: Parks Commission rep, Finance Committee rep, and at-large. 
M. Allison noted that even if a member were cut from the MPSC, they would still be able to attend the 
meeting since it’s public. M. Brenner wanted to avoid repeatedly recomposing the group if possible. A. 
Reid agreed with M. Allison that it’s the Planning Board’s responsibility to keep the project moving. 
T. Willsmer moved to restructure the Master Plan Steering Committee by eliminating the Finance 
Committee seat, the Parks Commission seat, and the at -large seat formerly held by Joeci Gilchrest.  
M. Allison seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
M. Brenner asked T. Willsmer to inform the affected committees and invite them to the next meeting to 
offer involvement. 
100 Townsend Harbor Rd – Right of First Refusal  (ROFR)  
Per G. McLeod, the Open Space Committee previously discussed the property informally and found short of 
the “Open Space” criteria. They will formally discuss it at their next meeting. Per C. Reilly, there was a 
defect in the previous Notice of Intent to Convert, so it was re -advertised, and the Select Board will 
examine the ROFR at a later meeting . The purpose of the land’s conversion is to construct 5 single-family 
homes. 
The meeting was briefly interrupted by technical difficulties with Zoom.  
The Board found no Planning-related use for the property. M. Allison opined it had agricultural use, which 
he acknowledged was out of the Board’s scope. 
Dave Passios (formerly 56 Whiting St) recommended the Town use it as a community garden via the 
Agricultural Commission and noted the property’s historical use as farmland. T. Willsmer noted that the 
last MPSC meeting mentioned community garden space. The Board discussed and agreed to wait for 
feedback from the Open Space Committe and Agricultural Commission.  
 
ABUTTING COMMUNITY NOTICES  
None of concern at this time. 
===PAGE 6===
6 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS  
Master Plan Steering Committee  
Addressed in Board Discussions. 
Open Space Committee  
Per G. McLeod – nothing to report. 
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee  
Per M. Allison – met on 01-20. Consultants continue to be responsive. Some issues from colocation of 
municipal and school buildings. 
Capital Planning Committee  
Per M. Brenner – meeting on 01-29 to review Interim Town Manager’s recommendations before 
proceeding to 10-year plan. 
Economic Development Committee  
Per G. McLeod – just met and included the Land Use Director. Also discussed adding future Town funding 
for the Meet and Greet to reduce reliance on attending businesses. 
Storm Water Task Force  
Per T. Willsmer – met 01-23, reviewed info for fee structures. Announcement planned for next Town 
Meeting before advertising & public-input process begins. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission  
Per A. Reid – have not met since last meeting, will meet next month. 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee  
Per A. Reid – have not met since last meeting, will meet next month. 
MINUTES APPROVAL  
Pushed to next meeting due to technical difficulty. 
MEETING SCHEDULE  
Upcoming meetings are 02-10 and 02-24 at 6:00 P.M. 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
Dave Passios noted recent issues with other Boards’ Zoom meetings and thanked the Board for their 
flexibility through earlier technical difficulties. Smaller Boards and related groups need to be notified in the 
application process. 
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS  
None at this time. 
ADJOURNMEN T 
T. Willsmer moved to adjourn.  
G. McLeod seconded.  
Roll Call Vote: G. McLeod – Aye, M. Allison – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
===PAGE 7===
7 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
Minutes by Logan O'Connell, Admin Asst. 
  
===PAGE 8===
8 of 8 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-01-27  
 
   
 
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED  
 
i 2025 -01-27 – Staff Report 
ii 2025 -01-10 – 558 & 560 Goodrich St GEI Peer Review 1  
iii 558 & 560 Goodrich St Site Development Plan (Revised 2025 -01-27) 
iv 2025 -01-24 – 255 Sunny Hill Rd GEI Peer Review 1  
v 2025 -01-27 – 171 Arbor St Special Permit Decision  
vi 2025 -01-27 – Staff Report 