===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid  Clerk 
Matthew Allison Member 
Glenn McLeod  Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly – Land Use Director 
Logan O'Connell – Admin Asst. 
 
MINUTES 
2025-02-19 (Public Site Visit at 494 Electric Ave) 
 
   
 
CALL TO ORDER 
Mathew Brenner called the meeting to order at 5:00 P.M. Mike Mohamed, Chris Anderson, and Atty. Jeff 
Avini were also present for the applicant. 
The general plan was to discuss concerns from the 02-10 meeting (i.e. traffic controls) and enhance the 
Board’s understanding of existing and proposed conditions in the context of the area. 
SITE VISIT 
Chris Anderson (Hannigan Engineering) reviewed the connection between the restaurant site and location 
of the proposed parking lot (situated at present-day 10 Lakeview Dr), which crosses Pierce Ave. The existing 
entrance to Pierce Ave is broad and has no curb line. The roadway isn’t well visible, and the existing 
crosswalk isn’t frequently used in practice. 
The restaurant’s current storefront parking is completely exposed to Electric Ave. Landscaping is proposed 
to cut off this wide-open access, prevent unauthorized turns & control traffic flow to defined locations. 
The location of the crosswalk and pedestrian visibility were discussed. G. McLeod emphasized the 
importance of planning around anticipated pedestrian behavior to avoid another unused crosswalk. C. 
Anderson suggested using additional road-side signage to indicate the crosswalk. 
M. Brenner asked where plowed snow would be located. C. Anderson explained it would be located 
outside of parking areas once the landscaping along Electric Ave was implemented. Drivers’ sightlines for 
pedestrians would be maintained by removal of accumulated snow over time.  
The Board moved to the proposed parking site. The current truck trailer and dumpsters on the side of 
Pierce Ave would be moved. The looped road configuration would feed through here. An existing opening 
to Electric Ave would be closed. 
 
MEETING POSTED: Yes 
ADDRESS: 494 Electric Ave, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
TIME: 5:00 P.M. 
PRESENT: Matthew Brenner (Chair), Timothy Willsmer (Vice Chair), Amanda Reid (Clerk), 
Matthew Allison, Glenn McLeod. 
ABSENT: None 
===PAGE 2===
2 of 2 - Planning Board Minutes  
 
   
 
M. Allison opined the Board’s pedestrian safety concerns would be fixed by using the existing opening into 
the proposed parking lot site rather than using Pierce Ave (which would have a perpendicular crossing of 
driver and pedestrian paths). He emphasized the danger that inattentive pedestrians would be in.  
C. Anderson opined that moving the crosswalk behind queuing traffic would create an unsafe condition, to 
which C. Reilly disagreed. 
The trees along Pierce Ave were discussed. The majority would remain intact, one or two would be 
removed for utility connections. 
A. Reid moved to adjourn. 
T. Willsmer seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Adjourned 5:20 P.M. 
Minutes by Logan O'Connell, Admin Asst. 
 