===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid  Clerk 
Matthew Allison Member 
Glenn McLeod  Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly – Land Use Director 
Logan O'Connell – Admin Asst. 
 
MINUTES 
2025-02-10 
 
   
 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE 
Matthew Brenner called the meeting to order at 6:02 P.M. The pledge of allegiance was led by Matthew 
Allison. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORTi 
Per C. Reilly, Katie Paight from the Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) will join remotely to 
answer questions about state-mandated Floodplain Map updates. 
ANRs (Approval Not Required) 
215 Sunset Lnii 
Greg Roy (Dillis and Roy) presented for applicants David & Brenda Pajari. Proposed Land Swap of ~900 sqft 
piece with neighbor at 205 Sunset Ln. Total land areas are unchanged. Properties are in the outlying zoning 
district, both meet 80,000 sqft lot size requirement & have prerequisite frontage. No new building lots 
being created. Purpose is to provide easier lot access to 215 Sunset Ln—previously attempted through an 
easement, denied by Zoning Determination from Building Commissioner. 
No buildings currently on 215 parcel, one is proposed. Land swap would add ~50 ft. Of frontage to 215 
Sunset Ln while leaving enough for 205 Sunset Ln. 
M. Allison and G. Roy noted a previous ANR application on this property -- a previous engineer tried to split 
the lot via a Common Driveway (before the Special Permit process was used), which wasn’t granted. 
MEETING POSTED: Yes 
ADDRESS: Town Hall – 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
TIME: 6:00 P.M. 
PRESENT: Matthew Brenner (Chair), Timothy Willsmer (Vice Chair), Amanda Reid (Clerk), 
Matthew Allison, Glenn McLeod  
ABSENT: None 
===PAGE 2===
2 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
T. Willsmer moved to endorse ANR for 215 Sunset Ln. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
171 Arbor Stiii 
Brian Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) presented for applicants PSG Realty 393-435, LLC & Raudonat 
Family Revocable Trust. This ANR is needed for lot line approval & beginning construction. A planned 
follow-up ANR relies on the book and page info from this one’s recording at the the Registry of Deeds. 
Property received previous permits (Stormwater Permitiv, Conservation approval, Zoning Special Permit for 
relief from lot width through the building, Special Permit for Common Drivewayv). 
Parcel A (17,000 sqft piece on back side of property) being transferred to John Raudonat in exchange for 
Parcel B (1500 sqft “sliver” providing frontage required for the Common Driveway Special Permit). 
T. Willsmer moved to endorse ANR for 171 Arbor St. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
ZONING WORKSHOP 
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) 
C. Reilly explained – the State revised their guidance extensively late last week; notably impeding local 
powers. Previous bylaw draft included Special Permit requirement for a second ADU & certain lot line 
setback requirements, both now removed to reflect State updates. 
G. McLeod confirmed with C. Reilly – this law went into effect February 2nd, the Town must apply it to 
current ADU applications. Opined it was an example of local communities’ lack of control over zoning 
changes, advocated clear messaging that these aren’t voluntary / community-driven bylaw amendments 
due to the State’s mandated changes. 
C. Reilly explained background – previously, the Zoning Board of Appeals issued Special Permits to add an 
Accessory Dwelling Unit onto existing single-family homes. State has removed this process as part of highly 
aggressive housing production strategy, making it by-right. 
Floodplain Map Updates 
C. Reilly introduced Katie Paight , a Floodplain Management specialist from the DCR’s Flood Hazard 
Management program. 
FEMA’s National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) offers flood insurance to anyone in participating 
communities, which must adopt & enforce regulations for areas on their respective Flood Insurance Rate 
Map (FIRM) to qualify for membership. Lunenburg is within the Nashua River watershed, whose FIRM maps 
are being updated by FEMA (effective July 2025). Communities like Lunenburg are voluntary NFIP 
members. Lunenburg joined in 1982 (the last time its floodplain map was updated).  
For the Town to remain in the program, it must (1) adopt an effective map by July 2025 and (2) adopt the 
“minimum standards” of the program, outlined in the provided model bylaw. Although these “minimum 
standards” have been part of the Federal code since the late 80s, FEMA wants them adopted locally for 
greater visibility.  
===PAGE 3===
3 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
(Out of order): If it chooses not to, Lunenburg may be removed from program: existing NFIP flood insurance 
policies wouldn’t be renewable & new policies couldn’t be made. The choice to remove an individual 
community from NFIP is made by FEMA. Private flood insurance policies exist but are generally more 
expensive and lack certain protections like fixed rates. 
G. McLeod asked about notifying affected residents. Per K. Paight, the “local rules and regulations” 
Lunenburg agreed to adopt by joining NFIP are spread across (1) the State Building Code, (2) the Wetlands 
Protection Act, and (3) a small remainder in local Floodplain bylaws. When adopting a new FIRM map, the 
list of properties in or outside of a floodplain may change.  
• If someone is newly mapped into the floodplain, it’s the community’s responsibility to notify them. 
• If someone is purchasing a property with federally backed assistance in the floodplain (i.e. mortgage, 
loan, disaster resistance) it is the lender’s responsibility to notify them that the property must have 
flood insurance for the life of that assistance. 
C. Reilly asked about notable map differences. K. Paight hadn't directly compared 2025 and 1982 maps, but 
noted the new map’s higher accuracy, user-friendliness, & interactivity. Old map was never digitized, isn’t 
available on MassMapper or national flood hazard layer--recommended checking with local Building 
Commissioner or Conservation Official to see floodplains on old map. Updated map is partially accessible 
(via FEMA Flood Map CHanges Viewer) but won’t be widely published until July. 
C. Reilly will write draft Zoning Amendment based on the model bylaw & map info, review it with K. Paight 
to make sure it conforms with DCR, have it available for Board in approx. 2 weeks. 
The Board discussed the Warrant Article submission process. Per C. Reilly, the placeholder language 
required by February 1st was submitted on-time. The warrant article’s finalized language (printed in the 
warrant for Town Meeting) is due by March 17th. The “golden rule” with placeholder language is to “stay 
within the four corners” of the intent of the language, which is difficult with the State’s moving targets. 
M. Brenner listed frustrating procedural obstacles: Interim Town Manager set an unusually early deadline 
for Town Bodies’ Warrant Article submissions to ease the new Town Manager’s transition in, but it put 
volunteer Boards in a precarious position. Board work on local concerns is impeded by influx State & 
Federal mandates requiring bylaw changes. Opined such mandates should be constructed at the Federal 
level to avoid strain on municipalities--“why should we have a hand in it if we don’t actually have a hand in 
it?” 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
494 Electric Ave – Site Plan Approval (SPA), Stormwater Management Permit (SMP) 
(cont. from 2025-01-27) 
Chris Anderson (Hannigan Engineering) presented for D&A Lunenburg, LLC. Applicant intends to construct a 
new parking lot to service existing restaurant facility / modify existing parking in front of the structure, &  
construct an additional retail space on the property. Noted concerns from abutters & various Town 
Departments, reviewed changes in response: 
• Stormwater Runoff – Existing accessory structure had a gutter overflowing onto adjacent properties, 
plan to capture and redirect into Stormwater system. Received Peer Review from GEIvi , satisfied with 
all stormwater and hydrology calculations. 
===PAGE 4===
4 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
• Parking – pulled back parking immediately against Pierce Ave to meet setback requirements. No 
vehicles directly facing abutting properties across Pierce Ave. Maintaining solid wall fence and 
evergreen plantings along this side of property. Reviewed access points into the Parking Lot, added 
dividers to designate traffic lanes based on C. Reilly’s previous feedback, added striping / landscape 
barriers for designated pedestrian travel path. 
• Misc – Moved dumpster pad to opposite side of Pierce Ave to shield appropriately / protect from view. 
Noted Conservation Commission’s issuance of Order of Conditions relative to the Stormwater Basin.  
Fire Dept had concerns about turning radius: Hannigan Eng. provided data for a vehicle larger than 
Lunenburg’s largest truck. C. Anderson explained it encompassed the turning radius of smaller vehicle but 
offered more data if requested by the Board. 
G. McLeod noted abutter concerns of traffic to property going through neighborhoods / own concerns 
about pedestrian endangerment from car queues forming on Electric Ave (at property’s exit & before the 
turn onto Pierce Ave towards the entrance). C. Anderson said traffic from side roads was minimal, & the 
proposed modifications would provide well-defined traffic control features currently lacking at Pierce Ave 
(proper turning radii, defined travel path, etc). Suggested adding pedestrian crossing signs for safety 
concerns. G. McLeod & A. Reid suggested moving entrance from Pierce Ave to Electric Ave to reduce future 
traffic at crosswalk. 
(Out of order): C. Anderson confirmed for M. Brenner – application entails no changes to the capacity of Il 
Forno, only available parking. Plan includes inter-building canopy for patrons and a patio previously 
removed by Building Dept request, no other changes to buildings. 
M. Brenner asked C. Anderson the intent of separating parking for restaurant & the retail site. Intent was to 
keep the two business elements separate / avoid connecting directly to Electric Ave since it’s consistently 
busy. Separate design also lets customers see & turn into other parking lot if first lot is full, rather than 
missing it and driving away. Trying to avoid curb cuts along Electric Ave. 
C. Reilly noted using a dedicated right-hand “slip lane” for traffic is best practice, like at Lunenburg CVS. 
Although the CVS generates more traffic than the restaurant currently, M. Allison expected an application 
to increase business capacity in the future, which would increase traffic. A. Reid was frustrated about this, 
noting applicants claimed to have enough parking when the secondary building was previously permitted. 
(Out of order): C. Reilly noted Graves Engineering Inc (GEI) isn’t a “full-house” peer review service – it’s 
beneficial to have multiple options available (e.g. traffic-specific experts) for an application’s unique 
concerns.  
G. McLeod asked about moving the entrance location closer to the proposed retail building. Per C. 
Anderson, they want it as far as possible from Pierce Ave to give drivers time for decision-making. 
Discussion turned to the ownership status of Pierce Ave. M. Allison recommended deferring the application 
until Town Counsel returns a determination and emphasized that options being discussed tonight could be 
nullified by that determination’s results, potentially wasting time. M. Brenner will discuss with Town 
Counsel at his office hours on Feb 11th. 
M. Allison noted the size of the retail component qualifies it as a shopping center under Town bylaw, which 
requires a traffic analysis. M. Brenner offered to schedule a publicly available site visit to actively deliberate 
===PAGE 5===
5 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
on-site rather than working off memory. Board and Applicant both interested. (Scheduled at end of 
meeting). 
 
M. Brenner invited public comment. 
Dave MacDonald (155 Island Rd) – Recommend inviting Bill Bernard (Department of Public Works) to site 
visit due to his engineering background. Thanked Board for efforts, emphasized desire to streamline. G. 
McLeod suggested inviting Police and Fire as well / explaining why their input is wanted. 
Bob Pease (11 Wintergreen Ct) – Town needs to support businesses better. Questioned merit of a traffic 
study since application’s proposals don’t directly cause a traffic increase. On pedestrian safety, agreed with 
pursuing crosswalk signage & turning lane options. The Board needs to examine how it can work within its 
regulations to help businesses. M. Allison replied – the Board’s first stakeholder is residents. Noted high 
turnout of concerned abutters when this development started. Determination of Pierce Ave’s ownership 
would impact many people who aren’t present tonight, needs to be resolved before anything else. 
Atty. Jeff Avini on behalf of applicant – please relay any new info from Town Counsel on Pierce Ave. We 
can’t deny anybody access: Pierce Ave shows on a plan, [residents] have the right to use it. Our title 
abstractor reached out directly to Town Counsel. 
T. Willsmer moved to continue the public hearing for 494 Electric Ave to 2025-02-24 at 6:05 P.M. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
After discussing scheduling options, the Board scheduled a site visit for 2025-02-19 at 5:00 P.M. 
213 Electric Ave – SMPvii 
A. Reid read the Public Hearing Notice at 8:09 P.M. 
Daniel Sheehan (Haley Ward) presented on behalf of applicant Red Bird Construction, Inc. Project is 
construction of 5 multi-family dwelling units (duplexes) with driveways and associated Stormwater 
Management features. Post-construction will mostly be vegetative landscape, grass. Driveways generally 
pitched towards separate rain gardens, filter strip along side and clay dams proposed. Has also submitted 
Notices of Intent for 213 and 221 Electric Ave to Conservation Commission. Only outstanding item from 
GEI’s Peer Reviewviii is test pits. 
C. Reilly asked how soon test pits could be completed. D. Sheehan expected the next couple weeks, but 
wanted to wait for Conservation Commission’s site walk / avoid presenting temporarily disturbed land. 
G. McLeod clarified that this Peer Review was preemptively sought by applicant. Prefers applicants electing 
to spend their own money vs. needing to for Board requirements. 
M. Allison noted that since certain drainage components were shared, a maintenance agreement between 
homeowners (to be recorded on the deed) would be needed. In C. Reilly’s experience, the Board typically 
reviews the Homeowners Agreement for shared maintenance. 
T. Willsmer moved to continue the public hearing for 213 Electric Ave to 2025-03-10 at 6:05 P.M. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
===PAGE 6===
6 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
DECISIONS 
The Board reviewed decisions for 560 Goodrich St – Special Permit (SP), SMP, and 255 Sunny Hill Rd – 
(SMP), and discussed Standard Conditions (SCs). Discussion below is re-ordered for clarity. 
SMP decisions missing a requirement to record a shared maintenance agreement on the deed, although 
this was captured by a special condition in 560 Goodrich St’s Common Driveway Special Permit decision. 
M. Allison clarified – although 560 Goodrich has a shared SMP component, maintenance requirements are 
deed-recorded in unshared SMP systems as well to prevent maintenance lapses (i.e. informing the 
property’s new owner after a sale).  
C. Reilly noted recently discovered contradictions between certain deeds and Approval Not Required plans 
at the Registry of Deeds. Decisions must be recorded at the Registry of Deeds, so they’d ideally be “caught” 
by any property’s potential buyer during its Title Exam. 
M. Allison questioned the requirement for full Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance in the SCs, 
since these are private domiciles. C. Reilly will draft updated sets of SCs for (1) Site Plan Approval, (2) 
Stormwater Management Permits, and (3) Common Driveway Special Permits for the Board to review. The 
Board’s previous understanding was that the SCs for SMPs included deed-recorded maintenance 
requirements. C. Reilly clarified these SCs were from Interim Land Use Director Richard Harris’s decisions 
and may differ from those used by longtime Land Use Director Adam Burney. 
M. Allison noted that the Town had Stormwater Regulations since 2008 but hadn’t issued a Stormwater 
Management Permit until 2015, emphasized that standards need to be actively maintained and 
documented over time to be useful. 
The Board deferred endorsement of the decisions, pending revisions to reflect the provision for deed-
recorded maintenance requirements. 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
Master Plan Steering Committee (MPSC) Composition 
Per T. Willsmer – continued issues with quorum. Planning to poll members of the board for alternative 
weekdays to meet. 
M. Allison asked if further reductions to help quorum were possible. T. Willsmer received an email blaming 
quorum issues on other departments’ absent representatives after last meeting, but he’d want more info 
before cutting those positions.  
M. Allison noted the 6-month span since previous Chair Joeci Gilchrest had stepped down (just before the 
group’s planned summer hiatus). Per M. Brenner, when the Chair stepped down all surveys were 
performed except the most recent, which was being planned. Subsequent quorum issues affected its 
quality.  
For next meeting, M. Brenner asked T. Willsmer to (1) list which groups had and hadn’t been attending 
(including verifying with them) and (2) if possible, get a concrete recommendation from the MPSC itself 
about which positions to cut. Prefers having MPSC’s input instead of making top-down membership 
changes, but will fall back to Board intervention if needed. 
===PAGE 7===
7 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
M. Allison asked about the remaining contract with the Master Plan consultants (OverUnder, Inc).  
Per C. Reilly there’s approx. $20,000 left at around $2,000 per meeting. The contract’s original expiry date 
has already passed, but the consultants are continuing to work under that agreement. Full draft of the 
Master Plan’s implementation chapter exists. Clarified that the Board is the only body that votes on 
adopting the Master Plan / making it “official” to the State. 
ABUTTING COMMUNITY NOTICES 
Three notices from Fitchburg Planning Board, none of local concern. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
Discussed previously under “Board Discussions”. 
Open Space Committee 
Per G. McLeod – meeting 2025-02-12 on Right of First Refusal at 100 Townsend Harbor Rd. 
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
Per M. Allison – highly detailed, in-depth, multi-disciplinary presentation made to Select Board on Tuesday, 
2025-02-04. Current Town Hall becomes a meeting space, Ritter Memorial Building is occupied by various 
programs from the School Dept, and the “Annex” (small addition to Ritter Memorial Library) is occupied by 
PACC. Plans included revisions from various department heads. Renovations’ subtotal was approximately 
$22m (not including remediation). Not well received on Facebook. 
Capital Planning Committee 
Per M. Brenner – met last week before Interim Town Manager left. Some of the voting was based on 
numbers that ended up being inaccurate (a continuing frustration). Have had multiple cases of received 
estimates being off by a factor of 100% or more—some resolved with subsequent reprioritization. Action 
on 5-year plan upcoming after giving the new Town Manager some time to acclimate. 
Economic Development Committee 
Per G. McLeod – have not met since last meeting. 
Storm Water Task Force 
Per T. Willsmer – next meeting is Thursday, 2025-02-20. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
Per A. Reid – some discussion about Trump administration’s halts to federal funding. Presentation by 
Senator Jamie Eldridge on closure of Nashoba Valley Medical Center pending next month. New route for 
MART (due to Nashoba closure), free rides to Emerson hospital from Ayer, Shirley or Harvard. 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
Per A. Reid – meeting on Wednesday, 2025-02-12. 
MINUTES APPROVAL 
The Board reviewed and approved minutes for 2024-12-09, 2025-02-13, and 2025-01-27. 
MEETING SCHEDULE 
===PAGE 8===
8 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
Upcoming meetings are 02-24 and 03-10 at 6:00 P.M. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS 
G. McLeod found the State’s recent actions unresponsive to the electorate & out of touch with municipal 
financial constraints. Cited Legislature’s “cookie cutter” approach with items like MBTA Communities Act / 
ADU amendments, and resistance to 2024’s Ballot’s Question 1 (auditing the legislature) despite an 
overwhelming yes vote. Wants more State support to avoid implementation burden of “unfunded 
mandates”. C. Reilly noted experience in two communities that passed building moratoriums as last resort. 
G. McLeod noted representative Margaret Scarsdale’s upcoming office hours on 02-18 at the Lunenburg 
Adult Activity Center. 
A. Reid thanked Annie Aubrey (Executive Assistant to Town Manager) for handling the Montachusett 
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MMPO) caucus this week. 
M. Allison criticized the unusually short deadline for the Board to submit warrant articles’ preliminary 
language. Worried about ability of final language to stay “within the four corners” of the preliminary 
language’s intent since the State changed certain guidance (ADUs) after the Board’s submission. 
ADJOURNMENT 
A. Reid moved to adjourn. M. Brenner seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Adjourned 9:19 P.M. 
Minutes by Logan O'Connell, Admin Asst. 
  
===PAGE 9===
9 of 9 - Planning Board Minutes 2025-02-10  
 
   
 
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED 
 
i 2025-02-10 Staff Report 
ii 2024-12-11 – Plan of Land 205 & 215 Sunset Lane 
iii 2024-12-01 Plan of Land in Lunenburg, Mass Prepared for PSG Realty 393-435, LLC 
iv See record PBSW-24-7 on OpenGov. 
v See record PBSP-24-3 on OpenGov. 
vi 2025-02-10 494 Electric Avenue Site Plan Review 
vii 2024-12-12 Definitive Site Plan for Electric Avenue in Lunenburg, Massachusetts. See record PBSW-24-9 on OpenGov. 
viii 2025-02-06 213 Electric Avenue Stormwater Management Review 