===PAGE 1===
1 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member 
Anthony Nicastro, Member 
 
 
 
             Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Stephen Wallace – Director of 
Planning and Economic 
Development 
Leigh Bain – Administrative 
Assistant 
 
9/14/26 Minutes 
 08/24/26 Minutes 
 Roll Call: M. Brenner, A. Reid, A. Burney, A. Nicastro, T. Willsner 
The Board noted that Mr. Willsmer was via Zoon and votes taken by roll call 1. CALL 
TO ORDER 
M. Brenner called the meeting to order at 6:04 pm. 
 2. BOARD COMMENT 
None. 
 3. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
S. Wallace reported that proposed zoning amendments for the Spring Town Meeting are 
posted on the Town website for public review.  
S. Wallace is scheduling presentations to other boards, commissions, and committees 
regarding the proposed amendments. He reported scheduled presentations to the Zoning 
Board (10/14), Board of Health (11/2), Conservation Commission (10/7), and Finance 
Committee (10/22). T. Willsmer will present to the Open Space Committee. A 
presentation to the Select Board remains to be scheduled.  
The Board discussed a public forum for late November/early December, revisions 
during December and January, a required public hearing in March, and subsequent 
consideration at Town Meeting.  
 
 4. APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED (ANR) PLANS 
 55 Pines Acres Road, ANR-26-7:  
George Hudson, 35 Pine Acres Road, presented an ANR plan involving the transfer of 
back land from Lot 50-25 to three existing house lots. No new building lots are being 
created.  
Motion: A. Burney to endorse ANR-26-7. Second: A. Reid 
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Motion: A. Burney to endorse the A&R for 50 Page Street, ANR-26-6. 
Second: A. Reid 
Voice Vote: AYE (4/0). 
5. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 149 Summer Street, Modification of Site Plan Approval (PMOD-26-5) 
The applicant requested an increase in the approved number of motor vehicles from 12 
to 19. Board concerns included missing dimensions, aisle widths, traffic flow, emergency 
access, and the location of parking spaces. The Board requested a revised plan showing 
dimensions and revisions to parking spaces, including relocation of spaces along the 
eastern property line, with the revised plan to be reviewed with the Fire Department.  
Motion: A. Burney to continue PBMOD-26-5 to September 28, 2026 at 6:01 PM. 
Second: A. Reid 
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye. 
 10 Parmenter Road Stormwater Permits (PBSW 26-12 & PBSP 26-13) and Special 
Permits (PBSW-26-3 & PBSP– 26-4)  
The applicant reported that peer review comments had been addressed. The Board 
discussed the common driveway operation and maintenance agreement, construction 
inspections, erosion and sedimentation control, and project phasing. The Board 
requested additional review of the legal agreement and clarification of the phasing plan. 
S. Wallace will begin drafting a decision for Board and applicant review.  
Motion: A. Burney moved to continue Phase 1 applications to September 28, 2026 at 
6:02 PM. Second: A. Reid Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye;  
 10 Parmenter Road Stormwater Permits (PBSW 26-6 & PBSP 26-7) and Special 
Permit (PBSW-26-16)  
The applicant reported that Graves Engineering had issued a clean peer review letter. 
The Board discussed the legal agreement framework, construction inspections, phasing, 
and Fire Department review of the proposed turnaround. No public comment was 
offered.  
Motion: A. Burney moved to continue Phase 2 applications to September 28, 2026 at 
6:03 PM.  
Second: A. Reid 
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye. 
 860 New West Townsend Road Continued from 3/16/26 Site Plan Review  (PBSA-26-
1) Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-1 Special Permit (PBSP-26-1) 
The applicant reported that peer review comments had been addressed. The Board 
discussed site-distance verification after excavation, soil testing for infiltration basin No. 
8 after removal of bulk material, driveway pavement thickness, legal documents, and 
Fire Department review. The Board agreed to three site-specific conditions: post-
excavation review of sight lines at the common driveway intersection; soil testing for 
infiltration basin No. 8 after bulk material removal; and driveway pavement thickness of 
1.5 inches top coat and 2.5 inches binder.  
Motion: A. Burney to close the public hearings for 860 New West Townsend Road, 
PBSA-26-1, PBSP-26-1, and PBSW-26-1.  
Second: A. Reid  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye.  
Motion: A> Burney to Approve the 860 New West Townsend Road applications with the 
three discussed site-specific conditions.  
Second: A. Reid  
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye.  
 6. DECISIONS and BUSINESS 
Town Meeting Warrant – Zoning Amendments: The Board discussed minor zoning 
amendments for the November Special Town Meeting, primarily clerical and citation 
corrections and other housekeeping amendments. The amendments will be forwarded to 
the Select Board for referral back to the Planning Board for a public hearing.  
The Board agreed to plan for a Planning Board meeting on October 19, 2026 rather 
than October 26, subject to the members’ availability.  
Motion:  A. Burney to move Forward the collective zoning amendments article to the 
Select Board as Article 1.  
Second: A Reid 
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye. 
 7. BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
Policy regarding submission of materials for consideration at public hearings: The 
Board discussed a policy requiring updated plans, reports, and materials to be uploaded 
to OpenGov by noon on the Thursday before the next Planning Board meeting. Materials 
submitted after the deadline may be deferred to a subsequent meeting to allow adequate 
review. The Board agreed with the policy; no vote was taken. 
 8. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Open Space Committee – T. Willsmer reported that the committee revised its criteria for 
evaluation potential open space acquisitions, including consideration of size, location 
and public benefit.  
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee – M. Brenner reported continued progress and 
discussion regarding a cost effective and prudent approach to municipal building needs. 
Capital Planning Committee – The Committee has not met. 
Economic Development Committee – The committee reviewed the recent ribbon cutting, 
reported that it went well and is soliciting candidate for the next ribbon cutting.  The 
committee also worked on finding a new venue for the Town government and local 
business meet and greet. 
Storm Water Task Force – T. Willsner reported that a warrant article has been submitted 
concerning whether stormwater should be considered as a utility or remain part of the 
standard operating budget, with a non-binding Town vote contemplated. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission – The meeting was canceled and 
rescheduled for September 17, 2026 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee – No meeting was held this month, the 
committee is expected to meet next month.. 
 9. MINUTES APPROVAL 
8/24/26 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Approval of the minutes was deferred due formatting and would be reviewed and 
considered for approval at the next meeting. 
 10. MEETING SCHEDULE 
9/28/26 
9/28/2026 
10/19/26 
11/9/2026 
11/23/26 
The Planning Board meets at 6:00 p.m. on the second and fourth Mondays of the month 
at Town Hall unless otherwise posted. 
 11. ADJOURNMENT 
Motion: A. Burney motion to adjourn the meeting. 
Second: A. Reid 
Roll Call: T. Nicastro – Aye; A. Burney – Aye; A. Reid – Aye; T. Willsmer – Aye; M. 
Brenner – Aye. 
 
 