===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member 
Anthony Nicastro, Member 
 
  
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 
5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Stephen Wallace – Director of 
Planning and Economic 
Development 
Leigh Bain – Administrative 
Assistant 
 
06/08/26 Minutes 
Roll Call: M. Brenner, T. Willsmer, A. Burney, A. Nicastro 
Absent: A. Reid 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
• M. Brenner @ 6:01pm 
2. BOARD COMMENT 
• M. Brenner let the public know that all hearings that have Special Permits will be 
continued due to the lack of quorum. 
• A. Burney said that with the recent failure of the over-ride and with the public discourse 
and vote that the board is essentially mandated to relax the commercial zoning bylaws, 
expand the commercial zones, encourage revenue positive development. The town needs 
positive economic development and to encourage commercial development. M. Brenner 
strongly agreed. 
• M. Brenner asked the board to stay after; to go over summer calendars so that we can 
plan accordingly. He also explained that calendar discussions do not fall under open 
meeting law, as it is scheduling and also not a good idea to go on public tv and 
announce when you are not home.  
3. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
• M. Brenner welcomed newest elected Board Member, Anthony Nicastro 
• S. Wallace stated he is working on the 4 zoning proposals; Cluster Housing, 
Inclusionary, Senior Housing, and Site Plan Review. The Site Plan Review is geared 
towards economic development. He needs to get a handle on what the Town currently 
has for zoning so that he can plan future zoning efforts. He was able to secure a grant 
through the regional planning commission so that we can update our year 2000 build 
out analysis maps. Only Adam provided feedback, moving forward to get the drafts 
together and out for review in a couple of weeks. Would like to have working sessions- 

===PAGE 2===
real time, face-to-face discussions. These sessions will be published and open to the 
public. Is hoping to have one session at a regular scheduled meeting.  
4. APPOINTMENTS  
• MRPC and MJTC Appointments 
See below motion  
• Board Officers and Appointments 
After discussions A. Burney made the motion to Nominate slate of Officers and Board 
Appointees to stay the same as they were last year. T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
5. APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED (ANR) PLANS 
• 260 Falulah Rd., (ANR-26-5) 
David LeRoy (Hannigan Engineering) representing the applicant, Fitchburg 
Redevelopment Authority, explained this project is in both Fitchburg and Lunenburg. 
They will be going to Fitchburg next. It meets Fitchburgs requirements. S. Wallace 
asked if the access and frontage are in Fitchburg. D. LeRoy answered yes. A. Burney 
asked if there was already a house on lot 1. D. LeRoy replied, no. M. Brenner asked how 
it works when all the access and frontage are in another town? S. Wallace explained the 
project frontage and access will have to meet and approved by the town they are in. 
When the property is in two towns, applicant is required to go before both and get 
endorsements from both. A. Burney moved to Endorse. A. Nicastro, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• 171 Arbor St., (ANR-26-4) 
Justin LeClair (McCarty Engineering) representing the applicant, Scott Perry explained 
this is a land swap from lots 2 & 3; the property lines are being moved to maintain 
deeded access. A. Burney moved to Endorse. T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
6. DE MINIMIS CHANGE 
• 171 Arbor St., Request for Modification to A Site Plan Approval (PMOD-26-2) 
Justin LeClair (McCarty Engineering) representing the applicant, Scott Perry. Explained 
since the Special Permit and Stormwater Permits were granted, lot 1 was sold to an 
abutter who has no desire to develop the land. The back lot is currently under agreement 
with a separate buyer that also has no intention of developing the land. The changes are 
to eliminate the 2 lots, construct a 3700 sq foot home (a slight increase), associated 
driveway, grading, septic, and change the driveway apron. They are keeping the common 
driveway. Previously were allowed to remove 80,000 cubic square yards of materials and 
they have only removed 40,000 and there is no intention of removing any more. A. 
Burney confirmed that lot 3 is under agreement with a separate buyer, and lot 1 is a 
similar situation. A. Burney stated a bigger concern is the relocation; it is closer to the 
neighbor, now on a slope, new is below slope, essentially a new stormwater system. This 
is not a de minimis change; you are redesigning grading, rotating the house, and 
increasing the house size.  J. LeClair said the grading was completed per approval; 
minor change is to slope in corner, still maintaining/ adding retaining wall. M. Brenner 
is worried about calculations and bigger changes; this is not a de minimis change and 
will want confirmation the calculations are correct.  Ed Sweeny (builder) asked to 
confirm what they want reviewed; the plans were previously reviewed by Graves 
Engineering. A. Burney stated the board wants the new calculations confirmed.  A. 
Burney moved this is a De Minimis change. T. Willsmer, Second 
Verbal Vote: NAY (4/0) 
7. PRELIMINARY CONSULT 
===PAGE 3===
• Sunny Hill Rd., Shared driveway 
Justin LeClair (McCarty Engineering) representing Ed McSweeney, who was in the 
audience, explained project went along with a prior, larger project. They are ready to 
proceed with this portion and wanted to see if the board has any concerns prior to them 
submitting a new Special Permit for the common driveway and a new Stormwater Permit 
for each lot. There is an existing gravel road that goes down to a dead end. The land is 
steep slopes, an undeveloped wooded area. There is currently a drainage easement. 
They feel this would be the most viable option, building off the existing gravel road. He 
has spoken with the DPW director, and he is in favor and that a common driveway 
makes sense. A. Burney asked if there would be any shared drainage? J. LeClair said 
yes, there would. A. Burney explained it is one Stormwater Permit for all the lots that 
share the drainage. J. LeClair stated there will be an HOA. A. Burney explained the 
Board will require a phasing plan to be submitted that will be included in the permit. 
Also explained that the phasing plan needs to be explicit as it will allow for lots to be 
released while others are still under construction. A. Burney stated the biggest concern 
is a turnaround for fire trucks. A. Burney suggested they investigate a “U” loop for fire 
truck access. 
6. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
• Continued from 11/24/25: 30 Summer St., Stormwater Permit (PBSW-25-6); Site 
Plan Review (PBSA-25-8); Special Permit (PBSP-25-9) 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) sent a letter prior to the meeting requesting to be continued 
until the next meeting. A. Burney motioned to continue until 6/22/26 at 6:05pm. T. 
Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• 10 Parmenter Rd., Stormwater Permits,(PBSW-26-12  & PBSW-26-13); and 
Special Permits (PBSP-26-3 & PBSP-26-4)    
Gregory Roy (Dillis & Roy) sent a letter prior to the meeting requesting to be continued 
until the next meeting. A. Burney moved to continue until 6/8/26 at 6:05pm. T. 
Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Continued from 3/16/26: 860 New West Townsend Rd., Site Plan Review (PBSA-26-
1); Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-1) Special Permit (PBSP-26-1) Letter to continue 
received  
Gregory Roy (Dillis & Roy) sent a letter prior to the meeting requesting to be continued 
until the next meeting. A. Burney moved to continue until the June 22nd meeting at 
6:05pm. T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
A. Burney asked S. Wallace to pass along to applicant that he strongly encourages an 
answer to the request to explore altering the common driveway into a needle eye or 
something other. If they have and it doesn’t work, what was explored and why it didn’t 
work. 
• 934 Mass Ave., Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-14) 
• Ting Chang (TF Moran, Inc) and the applicant, Nate Sherwood, Unitil explained the 
project involves upgrading the existing electrical substation through the construction of a 
new facility immediately adjacent to the current one. Once the new substation is 
energized, the old one will be decommissioned and removed. They are seeking an Order 
of Conditions from the Conservation Commission as the site is quite wet and believes 
they are at the tree management portion. Stated, the only impervious material will be the 
===PAGE 4===
roof and a concrete pad; it is a reduction because they will be replacing asphalt with 
gravel. It does slightly increase runoff; however, it will be clean runoff. Explained the lot 
is roughly 6 acres, and a majority of the land is wetland or wetland buffer. S. Wallace 
stated it is very constricted, asked where they are with Conservation. T. Chang stated 
that they are waiting for DEP approval. S. Wallace asked how they will be responding to 
Graves' comment regarding a retaining wall.  T. Chang replied that there is currently a 
fence there that they will move over roughly two feet and will add a retaining wall and 
that she will be submitting the changes to Graves. A. Burney stated he is not ready to 
approve but doesn’t see any problems. T. Chang asked the board if they could approve 
with conditions? A. Burney said, not with the Conservation Commission outstanding. M 
Brenner agreed that the Conservation decision is needed. A. Burney moved to continue 
to 6/22/26 @ 6:05pm. T. Willsmer, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• 757 Chase Rd., Site Plan Approval (PBSA-26-4) and Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-
15)  
Applicant Brian Lafferty, Empire Management Corp., and via zoom, engineer Jim 
Almonte, Land Design Collaborative, presented the project.  Jason the General Manger 
was also present. J. Almonte explained they were approved for the permit three or four 
years ago, but the project got shelved, and the permits expired. Stated they will be going 
before ZBA on June 10 to have that permit reissued as well. Conservations permit will 
expire in August, and they will be requesting an extension. The building and branding are 
outdated. M. Brenner commented on the parking as changed over the last 5 years. A. 
Burney mentioned that they had previously been hesitant to do soil testing and asked if 
they still expected that condition. A Nicastro asked what the differences are if any? J. 
Almonte explained the same plan with changes to the setbacks, curb cuts; landscape 
island is bigger.  There were no public comments.  A. Burney moved to close the 
Hearing. T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
A. Burney moved to approve with standard conditions along with the condition Soil 
testing shall be done at the location of the infiltration system before the system is 
installed. All soil testing results shall be submitted to the Land Use Department for 
review and approval by the Planning Board’s consulting engineer for compliance with 
the designed system shown on the approved plans (see also Condition #18). And; Once 
the new building receives its Occupancy Permit and becomes operational, all vehicles 
for sale shall be loaded/unloaded within the property boundaries and not take place in 
the road right-of-way. 
T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
7. DECISIONS and BUSINESS 
• Master Plan – Discuss/Approve 
M. Brenner stated it has not been sent out and will move to next meeting 
8. BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
9. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
• Master Plan Steering Committee 
Has not meet since our last meeting 
• Open Space Committee 
Discussing/reviewing current direction the committee is going 
===PAGE 5===
• Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
Missed the meeting. There is a questionnaire going out to Department heads 
• Capital Planning Committee 
Met once since our last meeting, nothing new to report 
• Economic Development Committee 
Moved to next week, working on ribbon cutting ceremonies 
• Storm Water Task Force 
Met, primarily reviewing consultants and developing questions 
• Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
N/A 
• Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
N/A 
10. MINUTES APPROVAL 
• 5/11/26 
A. Burney moved to approve. T. Willsemer, Second. 
Verbal vote: AYE (4/0) 
11. MEETING SCHEDULE 
• 6/22/26, 7/13/26, 7/27/26, 8/10/26 
12. BOARD COMMENT 
M. Brenner spoke about an idea he has; to speak to the state representatives about the 
(known) lack of/shortage of qualified people to fill municipal roles. He feels it could be fixed 
legislatively, fairly easily by reduced tuition or student loan payback; some type of incentive. 
A. Burney agreed there is a shortage but believes the qualified people are choosing the 
private sector due to politics, attitude from citizens, for better pay and less stress. The 
citizenry does not understand how municipal government works, and they feel entitled to 
berate the town's employees. S. Wallace agreed that the treatment of municipal employees 
by citizens has gotten worse over the last ten years.  
13. ADJOURNMENT 
A. Burney moved to adjourn. T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
@ 7:58pm 
 