===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member 
Vacant, Member 
 
 
 
                  Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Stephen Wallace – Director of 
Planning and Economic 
Development 
Leigh Bain – Administrative 
Assistant 
 
04/27/26 Minutes 
Roll Call: M. Brenner, T. Willsmer, A. Reid, A. Burney 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
• M. Brenner @ 6:00pm 
2. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
• S. Wallace explained he has started gathering examples of bylaws from surrounding 
communities for the by-laws we are looking to update; Senior Housing, Cluster Housing, 
Inclusionary Zoning, and Minor Site Plan Review. He wants feedback from the board by 
the end of June so that he can have a draft out by July. He wants to know what is liked 
and what is not. If anyone has a community they want reviewed, let him know. To not 
inundate the board, he will send them out on a schedule. This week, Senior Housing, 
next week, Cluster Housing and the following week, Inclusionary Zoning and Minor Site 
Plan Review. 
3. APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED (ANR) PLANS 
• Continued from 2/23/26 (Applicant Request): 0 Reservoir Rd. (ANR-26-2) 
J. LeClair (McCarty Engineering) on behalf of the applicant. This was discussed and 
voted on as part of the Stormwater PBSW-25-5 and Special Permit PBSP-25-10 
Hearings.  (See below) Continued to May 11, 2026. 
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
• Continued from 12/15/25: 0 Reservoir Rd. Storm Water Permit, (PBSW-25-5(Peer  
Review)) 
J. LeClair (McCarty Engineering) on behalf of the applicant. There have been   three 
changes made; drainage/culvert has been pulled from right of way, added the stone 
depressions to the detail sheet and the applicant’s attorney has provided verbiage for the 
easement to go with each deed and also a Maintenance Association Agreement. S. 
Wallace asked how much drainage would be handled by the front lot. J. LeClair 
indicated very little. A. Burney confirmed open channels containing trap rock. M. 
Brenner confirmed that the homeowner would affect their own property before others if 

===PAGE 2===
maintenance were not completed. S. Wallace informed the board they have 2 options: 
Easement outlined in each property deed or a Maintenance Association Agreement. M. 
Brenner stated that either would work, asked the board for their thoughts. A. Burney 
believes the Maintenance Association Agreement is the better option as it includes the 
fiduciary requirement. M. Brenner agreed. A. Burney moved to Close the Hearing. A. 
Reid, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0).  
A. Burney moved to approve standard conditions and to have legal counsel review. A. 
Reid, Second.  
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Continued from 2/9/26: 0 Reservoir Rd., Special Permit, (PBSP-25-10) 
J. Leclair (McCarty Engineering) stated with the Stormwater Approval he would like to 
withdraw this application.  The board stated they would sign the ANR. L. Bain reminded 
J. LeClair he needs to provide the updated mylar since it changed. A. Burney moved to 
withdraw the application of PBSP-25-10 and to Continue ANR-26-2 until May 11, 
2026. A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• 60 Cross Rd., Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-11) 
Chris Anderson (Hannigan Engineering) on behalf of the applicant, Timothy Gendron, 
trustee of the 60 Cross Street Realty Trust 2012 and Timothy K. Gendron 2008 
Revocable Trust. Stated they were before Conservation about two years ago, and the 
plans did not trigger stormwater then. Applicant has since changed the plans and by 
doing so triggered stormwater. Wanted to mention/ have on record because work has 
been done on the properties. This project consists of 2 single family homes, a duplex and 
an addition on an existing single-family home. 30 Pine Grove Rd is going to be a single-
family with a single access driveway. Crushed stone to absorb. A roof drain/ drywell 
system at the back of the lot, not sharing with other lots. Will be on municipal services 
for sewer and water. There is a new Conservation Commission Hearing on 5/6/2026.  
68 Cross Rd is going to be a duplex. There is an order of conditions of field change. This 
will be private water. There will be 2 drywell systems added. Will be a domestic sewer 
system. 64 Cross Rd. will be a single-family home. It will have a single drywell system. 
There will be a new well. This will be on public sewer. 60 Cross Rd is an existing 
structure that will be adding on an addition and new driveway access. This lot has an 
extensive backyard area, they will construct an infiltration basin system (a berm and 
outlet). C. Anderson stated he received the peer review results this morning and has 
started addressing the concerns mentioned. They do want additional soil samples. S. 
Wallace asked if the addition is adding additional living space and was told no, just a 
big room. M. Brenner confirmed needing time to review the peer review results that 
came in this morning. John Paula 63 Laurel Ln stated he is concerned with water 
running off onto his small strip of land. A. Burney and M. Brenner explained the purpose 
of the stormwater bylaw and why we issue permits. S. Wallace mentioned that the bylaw 
went into effect in 2018. C. Anderson explained the water actually runs off of J. Paula’s 
land onto these properties. A. Reid mentioned to J. Paula that she has found the 
engineers are usually kind and easy to work with to help the neighbors. C. Anderson 
confirmed they will talk with him and address his concerns. A. Burney asked if the sewer 
commission had been petitioned, was informed yes and had already started prior. A. 
Burney asked if the property owner is the contractor. C. Anderson stated that the 
===PAGE 3===
property owner will be developing. A. Burney recommends the construction be done in 
phases so that properties don’t get held up with selling because the other properties are 
still under construction. C. Anderson will discuss it with the client. A. Burney moved to 
continue until May 11th at 6:05pm. T. Willsmer, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Continued from 4/13/26: 222 West Townsend Rd. Stormwater Permits (PBSW-26-
2, PBSW-26-3, PBSW-26-4, & PBSW-26-5 
C. Stoddard (Stoddard Engineering) on behalf of the applicant. Stated they went out last 
week and test pitting, completed and forwarded the Solar Reports. They got clarification 
on lot 4 and the trench opening on town right of way, the DPW did not have an issue. 
The plans were updated to include planting counts. S. Wallace stated that Graves 
Engineering is still working on the review. A. Burney moved to continue to 5/11/26 at 
6:05pm.  A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Continued from 3/16/26: 860 New West Townsend Rd., Site Plan Review, (PBSA-
26-1); Stormwater Permit, (PBSW-26-1); Special Permit, (PBSP-26-1) 
A letter requesting continuance to May 11th was received prior to the meeting. A. 
Burney moved to continue to May 11,2026 at 6:05pm. A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
5. DECISIONS and BUSINESS 
• 711 Massachusetts Ave., (1220) Bond for Stormwater work extension 
S. Wallace stated he walked the property with Jeff from Graves Engineering along with 
the applicant’s engineer. The stormwater controls are in place and well kept. There is 
still some loam and seeding to be done and grass that needs to take hold. Applicant 
recommended $14500 for a bond. Jeff recommends $18,500.00, which would include a 
30% escalator. Dan Sheehan (Haley Ward) stated he can answer any questions for the 
board. Nick Merlino 711 Mass Ave #3, himself and other members of the HOA have 
some concerns regarding the hydro seeding and seeding. Stating the hydroseeding was 
done prior to winter and did not establish. They had spoken with the company that did 
the original work and were told they have no plans to re-hydro seed. A. Burney 
explained the purpose of this bond is to ensure the hydro seeding and seeding are 
completed as outlined in the approved plan and before it can be released, the site has to 
be approved/signed off on by the Planner, our reviewing Engineer, and the project 
engineer. D. Sheehan stated he will never sign off on the project until 75% or more of 
the vegetation which is the law. D. Sheehan stated that the plan is to re-hydro seed. 
Krishnaswamy Ravichandran, 711 Mass Ave #6, wanted to make it known that the back 
of his unit, #5, and #7, have never been hydro seeded or seeded. Stated he did mention it 
to the property owner, Mathieu Nowlan last week. He stated Mr. Nowlan told him he 
would have it taken care of, and it was the first he had heard of this. N. Merlino asked if 
they could get a commitment to what work is required to be done. D. Sheehan stated that 
the commitment is that the project will be completed in accordance with the original 
plan. There will be grass on all non-impervious surfaces which include hydro seeding, 
loaming, fixing any scouring and anything that needs repairs.  M. Brenner summarized 
that the bond includes hydro-seeding the entire property. He also stated that stabilizing 
can be done with other methods than hydro seeding. A. Burney moved to accept a 
$18,500.00 bond paid by cash, not to be released prior to 11/1/26. T. Willsmer, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
===PAGE 4===
6. BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
• Master Plan 
M. Brenner stated he was unable to get the Master Plan sent out and will have this item 
moved to the next meeting 
• 250 & 356 Hollis Rd. - Tax Title Process  
      A. Burney stated they can discuss this but cannot take any type of action as it is not a 
listed item on the agenda and doesn’t want to say something that will be against Open 
Meeting Law. M. Brenner strongly agreed. S. Wallace stated that we will discuss and the 
vote if needed will be taken at the next meeting on May 11th. S. Wallace stated he 
thought both properties would be good for senior housing. A. Burney said not both. 250 
Hollis was at one time planned for a 40B development. That did not happen because 
there are a lot of ledges, hills, tall retaining walls, and significant wetlands. The project 
became cost excessive. A. Burney asked if we have the lien amounts as it would help in 
the decisions made. M. Brenner stated that would impact his decision. A. Burney 
believes the property is not worth keeping for planning purposes. 356 Hollis Rd is an old 
large lake house that sits on 4.7acres. A. Burney explained it has been a thorn in the 
towns side for many years; the building is over-grown, and it has had issues with 
squatters in the past. The lot is relatively flat and could make four decent lots or a small 
village type of housing. S. Wallace inquired about public sewers. A. Burney confirmed it 
does not. It does have sandy soil and a septic for a medium sized development could be 
added. A. Burney believes if the lien is greater than or close to the appraised value it 
would be worth keeping however if it is not, then the Towns current financial situation 
makes it difficult to keep. S. Wallace stated he will request the lien information to have 
at the next meeting. 
7. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
• Master Plan Steering Committee 
M. Brenner: Has not met since our last meeting 
• Open Space Committee 
T. Willsmer: Has not met since our last meeting 
• Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
M Brenner: They are meeting tonight. Discussing meeting time change as cannot be in 
two places at once. 
• Capital Planning Committee 
M. Brenner: Will meet this Thursday to go over the last-minute changes as it has been a 
uniquely challenging budget year 
• Economic Development Committee 
S. Wallace: Met two weeks ago, discussed making sure the Town Clerk notifies the EDC 
when a new business license is issued. They would like to start working with the business 
owners and having ribbon cutting ceremonies 
• Storm Water Task Force 
T. Willsmer: They have withdrawn their warrant for Town meeting because they do not 
feel the time is right. Want to have public information sessions over the summer and 
hopefully present at fall town meeting 
• Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
A Reid: Has not met since our last meeting 
• Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
A Reid: Have not met, will meet in early May 
===PAGE 5===
8. MINUTES APPROVAL 
• 4/13/26 
M. Brenner stated he thinks it is amazing they have minutes for the last meeting. A. 
Burney stated he thinks it is even more amazing they are cogent and readable 
A. Burney moved to accept the minutes as written. T. Willsmer, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
9. MEETING SCHEDULE 
(6:00 P.M. at Town Hall or stated otherwise) 
5/11/26, 6/8/26, 7/13/26, 7/27/26 
• A. Reid asked about a second meeting in June as it is not listed. L. Bain stated yes, on 
6/22/26, it was left out by mistake. A. Burney stated he is still a question for May 11th. 
10. ADJOURNMENT 
• A. Burney moved to adjourn. T. Willsmer, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
Adjourned @ 7:33pm 
 