===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
Wednesday, June 26, 2025 – 6:00 PM 
Lunenburg Library, Sudolnik Room 
Attendees: 
Chair, Chair Mike Clark 
Vice-Chair, Dave Dorren 
Clerk, Clerk Donna Landry 
This meeting was recorded and posted on Lunenburg Public Access. The meeting was held 
remote by Zoom – members of the Public. 
(Viewing of the recorded meeting: see “Cemetery Commission 06.26.25” on YouTube - 
Lunenburg Public Access) Cemetery Commission 06.26.25 
Agenda 
6:00 PM – Call to Order 
June 26, 2025 meeting notes from YouTube recording 
1.) Reviewed CIMS license and access 
- Chair David Dorren motioned we approve the CIMS invoice for $2620.00, Clerk 
Donna Landry seconded, AIF 
 
2.) North Cemetery Backlot expansion 
- Vice Chair David Dorren had emailed DPW Superintendent Bill Bernard and asked 
him on the plan for kickoƯ along with requesting not to proceed without the 
Cemetery Commissions knowledge. Vice Chair David Dorren also mentioned that 
the commission had previously met with Arborists and only 3 trees were tagged to 
take down.  
  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148 
 
 
Mike Clark, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair  
              Donna Landry, Clerk  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
- The Commission discussed the size and layout of the entire North Cemetery based 
on its GIS mapping 
- Chair Mike Clark suggested surveying the wooded portion of the cemetery to ﬁnd 
out the total acreage.  
- Vice Chair David Dorren will ask if it has already been surveyed, and the price to do 
it now, to determine if we want to do it later. 
- And Chair Mike Clark brought up the additional 23-acre parcel that appears to be 
wetlands. 
- Vice Chair David Dorren will call DPW Superintendent Bill Bernard regarding the 
Survey and the Trees, along with the start of the Backlot project. 
- Vice Chair David Dorren will ask DPW Superintendent Bill Bernard if he has a set of 
maps. 
- Vice Chair David Dorren brought up the hedges and what we are going to do about 
replacing them, tried the stone wall option but it was very expensive. Vice Chair 
David felt that the DPW should take care of the stumps. 
- Chair Mike Clark mentioned the possibility of replacing the scrubs with granite post 
and chain 
- Vice Chair David Dorren will talk to Bill about the complete scope of the issues, 
hedges, stump removal – grinding and replacement, Vice Chair David brought up the 
stone walls around the cemetery and in certain places they are starting to fall. 
- Chair Mike Clark will investigate sourcing a couple of local stone masons who could 
perform the repairs and quote, determining scope that we can support. 
 
3.) Chair Mike brought up South Cemetery plot availability and number of other lots 
available. Bill had estimated as 10 plots available. Use the CIMS software to go in 
and identify all viable plots. Start further discussions with Bill Bernard regarding the 
South Cemetery. Chair Mike Clark reviewed the backlot area of the South Cemetery. 
What will it take to do a backlot expansion in the South Cemetery? We reviewed GIS 
plots and discussed the surrounding area and features and number of potential 
plots. 
- Clerk Donna Landry and Vice Chair David Dorren will review the South Cemetery 
backlot. 
- Vice Chair David Dorren brought up a discussion on mowing of the North Cemetery 
for the holidays and calling in a landscaper to assist with the mowing. Vice Chair 
David has talked to the town about it and will follow up on the conversation. Weed 
whacking to base ground may be excessive. 
- Also, who is the point of contact for day-to-day cemetery issues, Vice Chair David 
Dorren will contact the Town Manager to discuss. 
===PAGE 3===
 
4.) Grant writing was discussed, Vice Chair David Dorren has a point of contact and will 
get ahold of, he also mentioned the Town Manager as a reference as she oversees 
the grants. Vice Chair David to follow up with his contact and Chair Mike Clark to 
follow up with the town manager. Also review the list of grants that the previous 
chair, Nancy Foss Yasko had provided. Investigate resources to do this, kickoƯ with 
the Town Manager for her recommendations. 
 
5.) Earmarks were discussed, contacting our state representatives, Chair Mike Clark 
will reach out to them on establishing the process for requests. 
 
6.) Funds, currently available balances were reviewed and discussed at length, Sale of 
lots, Perpetual Interest (Perpetual Care), Etc., and the portion of these funds that are 
expendable by the commission. Map the revenue coming in and determine a yearly 
spend. Clerk Donna Landry mentioned determining the number of lots we are 
selling a year and how many we are releasing. We reviewed the number of lots sold 
in North and South Cemetery over the last 5 years, by year. Clerk Donna Landry 
asked if the data was from Ranmaker (CIMS) and Chair Mike Clark conﬁrmed that it 
was. 
 
7.) Keep the agenda the same and note as items are accomplished. 
 
8.) Clerk Donna Landry asked if we had scheduled a date for an August meeting, Vice 
Chair David Dorren suggested 6:00 pm weekdays, or a weekend. This would be a 
physical tour of the cemeteries. Tour a cemetery a night. 
 
9.) Issues were experienced with the Zoom timeout, Chair Mike Clark to check with 
town IT on Zoom. 
 
10.) No Public comments. 
 
11.) Chair Mike Clark requested a motion to adjourn, Clerk Donna Landry seconded, AIF 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Donna l. Landry 