===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
MINUTES
1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Ebersole called the meeting to order at 7:03 PM
Present: Bob Ebersole (Selectmen), Jaime Toale (Selectmen), Katie Adams (School Committee), Mark Erickson
(Finance Committee), Steve Archambault (Community Representative), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board),
Michael Mackin (School Committee). Terri Burchfield (Finance Committee).
Absent: Nancy Gray (Community Representative)
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
3. BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS
4. MINUTES APPROVAL:
15 November
5. DISCUSSION:
a. Responses from Committees/Boards
Committee members have reached out to boards and are anticipating responses over the course of the month.
b. Board of Selectmen
i. Alternative name
c. Town Meeting
i. Schedule of meetings
ii. Identify alternative days and times
iii. Communication of Town Meeting
d. Elected Boards with employees
i. Accountable officers
ii. Employee review processes
ili. Termination processes
e. Charter vs. Bylaws for location of
proposed changes
f. Director of Facilities
g. Town Clerk
i. Elected or appointed
h. Review highlights of Articles 1 & 2
Discussed highlights from the last meeting. General consensus for adding a brief explanation to some articles.
Questions about why special town meetings require 100 signatures for citizen petitioned articles whereas scheduled
town meetings only require 10. This difference comes from language in MA General Law. Finance Committee
removed bylaws due to language being in the charter, with the understanding that there wasn't a substantial
difference between the two. However, the charter does not have a requirement for members to be registered voters in
town or residents. B. Ebersole noted that some religions (Jehovah's Witnesses) aren't registered to vote and
requiring appointees to be voters could be prohibitive. 2-2, Town Moderator requested for a deputy to be appointed
for the year and remove the requirement for the Town Clerk to be removed from being the back-up presiding officer.
General disagreement on the second point, but consensus around having an appointed deputy moderator.
===PAGE 2===
Mackin said that the school committee meets next Wednesday, Dec 6 (televised) and charter review is on the
agenda. Mr. Toale suggested we should focus on the Town Manager sections for an entire meeting. Town Manager
should participate and we should give her sufficient time to prepare. Mr. Ebersole said this needs to be scheduled,
likely after the holiday. Brief conversation on Parks Commission policy setting versus responsibility for day-to-day
operations. Mr. Ebersole suggested so we may need to meet with them. Mr. Erickson said he would be in touch with
the Parks Commission and report back. Ms. Adams suggested she might help.
i. Brainstorm
6. ACTION ITEMS BEFORE NEXT MEETING
a. Continue to communicate with boards, committees, and departments to identify organizational
inefficiencies and needs. Ms. Burchfield and Mr. Erickson will review the Finance Director section and report back
on December 17. Mr. Ebersole to schedule meeting with Town Manager on January 10, if available.
7. PUBLIC COMMENT: none
8. BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: none
9. MEETING SCHEDULE:
Meetings are held at Ritter Memorial Building, 7:00 PM, on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the
month, unless otherwise indicated. Upcoming meetings:
13 December
10. ADJOURNMENT: 8:41pm
