===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
MINUTES
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue — Marian Benson Meeting Room
Time: 7:00PM
Present: Jamie Toale (Selectman), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Katie Adams (School Committee), Terri
Burchfield (Finance Committee), Nancy Gray (Community Representative)
MINUTES APPROVAL
27 September
Motion, T. Burchfield, to approve minutes from 27 September; Second, K. Adams; all aye
DISCUSSION
a. Responses from Committees/Boards
T. Burchfield mentioned that PACC will review and respond; unsure of how to contact the Cultural
Council. K. Adams mentioned that Architectural Preservation Commission inquired about the timeline for
them to respond. Group discussion indicated that within a month (mid-November). N. Gray and J. Toale
mentioned that boards he's contacted need time to add this to their agenda and discuss. M. Jeffreys noted
that M. Allison (Planning Board) provided a comment stating that town members should get more time to
groups or categories. K. Adams will organize the Charter into categories to make it more digestible and will
distribute at the next meeting.
b. Representative Town Government
i. Review from similar communities
Members need more time to continue to research this
il Identify current consensus
T. Burchfield stated that it would be good to first look into changing the time. Suggested a
community education process and then to inquire about why participation rate is low; would like
minutes to be added to the website. J. Toale would like for us to continue to explore what other
towns do with a focus on their schedules. K. Adams stated that the mailing could be reformatted to
be more inviting. M. Jeffreys noted that campaigning is a vital part of community awareness;
increasing campaigning may increase involvement.
c. Board of Selectmen
i. Alternative name
J. Toale noted that other communities call it a Select Board. M. Jeffreys noted that the names are
male centric. We will look into alternatives
il. Alternative structure
Membership of five members is seen as preferential
d. Town Meeting
i. Schedule of meetings
General views are that the time of Town Meeting isn't ideal. Other communities spread it out over
multiple days, Mondays and Tuesdays seem to be what most other towns do. K. Adams noted that
===PAGE 2===
points based on conversations and agenda discussions. Group discussion about the importance of teaching
town government structure within the school system; looking at how to incorporate student involvement. N.
Gray noted that she believes that the lack of involvement is affirmation that people are happy with the way
things work. J. Toale noted that some towns do a lottery system for Town Meeting articles.
i. Accountable officers
ii. Employee review processes
ill. Termination processes
f. Director of Facilities
General consensus is that this is worth exploring; K. Adams noted that this may take resources from other
areas and that there may be potential within the current structure and assignment of duties to achieve the
desired result.
g. Town Clerk
i. Elected or appointed
Poliey versus operation - will be looked at on spreadsheet
h. Designate small group tasks
ACTION ITEMS BEFORE NEXT MEETING
a. Continue to communicate with boards, committees, and departments to identity organizational
inefficiencies and needs
b. Agenda item for brain storming
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Meetings are held at Town Hall, 7:00 PM, on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month, unless
otherwise indicated. Upcoming meetings:
25 October at Ritter
08 November
ADJOURNMENT
Motion, T. Burchfield to adjourn, Second, M. Jeffreys, all aye. Meeting adjourned at 8:33
