===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue - Marian Benson Meeting Room
Time: 7:00PM
Present: Bob Ebersole (Selectmen), Jamie Toale (Selectmen), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Katie Adams
(School Committee), Michael Mackin (School Committee), Terry Burchficld (Finance Committee), Mark Erickson
(Finance Committee), Steve Archambault (Community Representative), Nancy Gray (Community Representative)
SELECT OFFICERS
Motion, J. Toale, nominate B. Ebersole as committee chair, Second, M. Jeffreys, all aye. Motion, M. Jeffreys,
nominate J. Toale as committee vice-chair, Second, S. Archambault, all aye. Motion, J. Toalc, nominate
M. Jeffreys as committee clerk, Second, B. Ebersole, all aye.
MEETING SCHEDULE
Members agreed to meet on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month; no objections to meetings being
televised and preference will be for meetings in Town Hall.
DISCUSSION
Chairman confirmed with members receipt of material distributed via email; he advised the committee on Open
Meeting Law requirements and the need for a transparent process. All members were in agreement that the activities
of the committee should involve community engagement. Members introduced themselves to another and stated the
boards/committees they represent. Members voiced their current familiarity with the Town Charter and expressed
initial thoughts and areas of interest.
ACTION ITEMS BEFORE NEXT MEETING
1. Members will review documents provided and bring up areas of interest at next meeting
2. Chairman, B. Ebersole will provide a version of the Town Charter that is double space and has larger font for
members to mark-up and use as a primary reference
3. M. Mackin suggested a process for community members to remain abreast on the progress of the committee that
also seeks their input. He will provide a draft of this process at the next meeting.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Meetings are held at Town Hall, 7:00 PM, on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month, unless otherwise
indicated. Upcoming meetings:
27 September
11 October
25 October
ADJOURNMENT
Motion, J. Toale to adjourn, Second, Steve Archambault, all aye. Meeting adjourned at 7:44pm.
Lunenburg Town Charter
Forms of Government in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Study on Structural Changes in Local Govermment in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Clark University (2010)
Nat-
Nife
