===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue
Time: 7:00PM
CLERK OFFICE
CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Ebersole called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM
Present: Bob Ebersole (Selectmen), Jaime Toale (Selectmen), Katie Adams (School Committee), Terri
Burchfield (Finance Committee), Mark Erickson (Finance Committee), Steve Archambault (Community
Representative), Nancy Gray (Community Representative)
Absent: Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Michael Mackin (School Committee)
Also present: David Passios
MINUTES
No minutes ready for review
DISCUSSION
Feedback from committees:
Ms. Gray: Cemetery commission proposing some changes; will meet with us in January. She
explained what she could of the process for them. Mr. Ebersole then said we will make a
recommendation at Town Meeting; the vote is then either yes or no. Some discussion ensued,
including that this board had already determined we will need a 2/3 majority of this committee to
move the proposed changes forward. After the discussion, Mr. Ebersole said he will clarify the
process with counsel.
Ms. Burchfield: Library will submit their recommendations in writing. Ms. Burchfield outlined
some of their issues. Mr. Toale reminded that boards with employees need consistent language.
Ms. Burchfield said the Finance Committee meets tomorrow to review the charter with TM and
Finance Director.
Ms. Adams: We should set out a timeline for ATM with milestones and dates. If we don't make
ATM, we could have STM in the fall. Likely to have fewer warrant articles at STM. Perhaps an
article at ATM would allow us to present a status update.
Mr. Ebersole: Met with sewer commission; asked for input for early January.
Mr. Erickson: Met with Parks last week and outlined the process for them. They have no direct
employees. Heard from Trust Fund Commissioners; they heard there may be a move to make
them appointed but believe they are elected by statute. Board of Health had this as an agenda item
at their meeting last week.
===PAGE 2===
Ebersole referenced the worksheet of appointed position and how they are appointed and said we would
have further discussion on this. Had some discussion about some parks related property and who has
jurisdiction; as written, Parks sets policy, TM (DPW) carries out operations.
Ms. Adams: Do we need a section under powers and duties of TM to ensure he/she responds to the
public? Communication in general?
Dave Passios: In an emergency, TM has appointed emergency response coordinator.
Discussed our schedule and chance that we might miss ATM. Realistically, we may need more time.
Input from committees by end of January, wordsmithing and legal review during February, public review
during March, warrant prepared by early April. Ms. Adams raised a concern that this is an aggressive
schedule that we may not be able to attain. Mr. Archambault agreed. She said she would draft a rough
timeline with milestones for our next meeting. Mr. Erickson said we should try our best to be ready for
ATM, as time is of the essence. Mr. Toale agreed...
ACTION ITEMS
1. Continue communication with boards and committees.
2. Mr. Ebersole will review the TM process with Town Counsel.
3. Mr. Ebersole said he would obtain a full inventory of all property and facilities so we can be clear
of who is responsible for what.
4. Mr. Toale will share the Moderators input with TM.
5. Ms. Adams will draft a rough timeline with milestones.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
BOARD COMMENT
None
MEETING SCHEDULE
Next meeting Wednesday, December 27, 2017, 7:00 PM tentatively at Town Hall
January 10, 2018, 7:00 PM
January 24, 2018, 7:00 PM
ADJOURNMENT
Motion to adjourn by Mr. Archambault, seconded by Ms. Burchfield, all in favor; 8:31
