===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue — Marian Benson Meeting Room
Time: 7:00PM
Present: Bob Ebersole (Selectmen), Jamie Toale (Selectmen), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Katie Adams
(School Committee), Michael Mackin (School Committee), Terry Burchfield (Finance Committee), Mark Erickson
(Finance Committee), Steve Archambault (Community Representative, Nancy Gray (Community Representative)
PUBLIC COMMENT
No public comment
BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS
None
MINUTES APPROVAL
Motion, J. Toale to accepé minutes from 06 September 2017; second by B. Ebersole; all aye.
DISCUSSION
M. Jeffreys stated that since the charter requires two-thirds of the town to pass, the charter review
. committee should follow similar requirements and need six of the nine members to make major changes. B.
Ebersole stated that when three members are missing, no votes should be taken on major changes. J. Toale
inquired about the definition of a "major change." This was clarified by B. Ebersole to be non-
administrative decisions, such as changing a position from elected to appointed. Motion, M. Jeffreys, to
have an operating procedure of a supermajority (six out of nine members) as a voting requirement
for major items; Second, S. Archambault; all aye.
b. Proposed 4-Phase Committee Approach
i. Community engagement and research
M. Jeffreys recommended for the charter review committee members to first engage with the
remaining boards and committees not represented on the Charter Review committee for input on
their ideas for changes to the charter. B. Ebersole stated that this could increase efficiency, employ
a "divide and conquer" method, and that boards and committees could be able to respond to their
representative on the Charter Review Committee, provide a written response, or appear in person,
if they desire. T. Burchfield. suggested a group email to make boards aware that we are reviewing
the charter and seek their input. S. Archambault suggested that we include the charter in the email.
Each member will reach out to the board or committee they represent before the next meeting. B.
Ebersole encouraged each member to communicate independently with the Town Manager. S.
Archambault disclosed that he gets paid by the Parks Department and has worked under the
School Committec.
ii. Focused workgroups
Will be developed, as we move forward
iii. Draft Language
Will likely be developed in subcommittees before being advanced to the larger body
iv. Community Outreach
B. Ebersole stated that engaging the unrepresented committees/boards will help create public
awareness; as we get closer to a product or engage the community with certain topics, we can
provide press releases to local papers or PACC. M. Jeffreys added that a new website will be
launched in October, and the Charter Review Committee will have a dedicated section on that site.
===PAGE 2===
e. Areas of concern/interest with Charter
M. Erickson noted that the committee should look into the Town Clerk position and consider whether it
should be elected or appointed; would like to look into the form of government - open town meeting or
representative town meeting; and believes that the organization and format ofthe charter should be
improved, such as adding a table of contents. B. Ebersole stated that the BoS hired a company to codify the
charter and bylaws and that it will be uploaded to the new website
f. Identify areas of consensus
No discussion
g. Assign liaisons for unrepresented boards
I. Burchfield
Finance Committee
Cultural Council
Public Access Cable Committee
Town Accouniant/Director of Finance
S. Archambault
Board of Assessors
Cemetery Commissioners
Library Trustees
M. Erickson
Park Commission
Board of Health
Commissioners of Trust Funds
M. Mackin
Town Clerk
Registrars of Voters
M. Jeffreys
Constables
Planning Board
Sewer Commission
School Committee
Town Counsel
Building Departinents/Staff
Housing Authority
Zoning Board of Appeals
Police Department
N. Gray
Conservation Commission
Storm. Water Task
Green Community Task Force
Town Moderator
K. Adams
Historical Commission
Agricultural Committee
Architectural Preservation Commission
Open Space
J. Toale
Personnel Board
Council on Aging
Capital Planning
h. Discuss community engagement process
M. Mackin presented draft language for a press release about the Charter Review Committee that directs
residents to YouTube channel; several members noted the difficulty finding the Charter on the town
website; the link for the charter is to the MA Commonwealth website, where it is officially located. The
new town website will provide a section for our committee where the Charter Review Committee will be
able to upload docunents. M. Mackin will provide the press relcase to the IT department.
===PAGE 3===
b. Small group to look into other towns and their experience with different forms of government and how
towns get more residents to attend Town Meetings. B. Ebersole will contact I.exington; M. Erickson; T.
Burchfield, and K. Adams will research other communities.
c. Look at the representative town meeting structure
d. Town Clerk position: elected vs. appointed.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS
T. Burchfield and B. Ebersole noted that we should send invitations to Town Accountant and Town
Manager to come to the Charter Review Committee meeting in the near future. M. Jeffreys will represent the
Charter Review Committee at the town workshop in October.
MEETING SCHEDULD
Meetings are held at Town Hall, 7:00 PM, on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month, unless
otherwise indicated. Upcoming meetings:
11 October - may be at Ritter; M. Erickson will not be able to attend
25 October
ADJOURNMENT
Motion, S. Archambault to adjourn; Second, M. Erickson; all aye. 8:25pm
