===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue
Time: 7:00PM
LONENBURG TOWN
*ICE
CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Ebersole called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM
Present: Bob Ebersole (Selectmen), Jaime Toale (Selectmen), Katie Adams (School Committee), Mark
Erickson (Finance Committee), Steve Archambault (Community Representative))
Absent: Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Michael Mackin (School Committee), Terri Burchfield
(Finance Committee), Nancy Gray (Community Representative
MINUTES
Mr. Archambault moved to approve notes from 12/13/2017; seconded by Mr. Toale; all in favor.
DISCUSSION
Feedback from committees:
None additional at this time
Mr. Ebersole confirmed that Town Manager will join the meeting on January 10.
Discussion of Article 5: Reviewed sections 5-1 and 5-2 and briefly discussed. Did not review section 5-3
as this deals with finance and we will review with TM in January. Discussed section 5-4. Mr. Ebersole
questioned why it appears in this particular section of the charter.
Continued discussion of Section 6-7. Consider including wording that says the Fincom budget letter is
part of the warrant which is mailed to all voters. Discussed timing of capital budget, 150 day lead time.
Reviewed and discussed article 7, General Provisions.
Discussed the need for more clarity in section 7-8 and the need to be consistent with MGL. Use "minutes"
of proceedings in section 7-8(c). Consider including rules, policies and procedures and minutes.
Paragraph (d) Voting, says we need to include a call of the roll on all votes. Discussion of (e) Quorum;
wording needs to be more clear so we know what is a quorum and what is a majority of a quorum.
Section 7-9 is more clear than the TM section dealing with removal.
Reviewed and discussed Article 8, Transitional Provisions
Discussion of timeline and milestones: Ms. Adams drafted a timeline with milestones; 42 days prior to
ATM the warrant closes (Mar 23); final proposed changes by Feb 28 gives Town Counsel the month of
March; first public hearing would be Feb 21. Discussed having preliminary votes on proposed changes
during second meeting of January (Jan 24).
Mr. Erickson suggested we organize our comments by what is not changing, what is a style change and
what is a substantive change. This will help focus our remaining work and determine if we can make the
ATM date.
We discussed that our supermajority is 6 of 9, so any proposed change will require 6 votes in the
affirmative.
===PAGE 2===
Next meetings:
Wednesday, Jamuary 14; 2018, 7:00 PM
7:00 PM, Ritter Building
ADJOURNMENT
Motion to adjourn by Mr. Archambault, seconded by Mr. Toale; all in favor; 8:28
