===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue
Time: 7:02PM
Present: Jaime Toale (Selectmen), Katey Adams (School Committee Representative), Mark Erickson (Finance
Committee), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Michael Mackin (School Committee Representative, Terri
Burchfield (Finance Committee), Nancy Gray (Community Representative), Michael Mackin (School Committee)
Absent: Bob Ebersole (Selectman), Steve Archambault (Community Representative)
1. CALL TO ORDER
J. Toale, called the meeting to order and noted that due to expected absences, the town manager was asked to come
to our next meeting. He advised hearing the representative from the Cemetery Commission and potentially
adjourning the meeting until a supermajority of the board was present. Without objection, Mr. May was asked to
join the committee and make a recommendation.
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
3. BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS
4. MINUTES APPROVAL
29 November
27 December
5. DISCUSSION:
a. Responses from Committees/Boards
Mr. Lance May (Cemetery commission) - believe that the current charter is missing one word that is part of the state
law governing cemeteries, the word being "sole" in Section 3-5.
b. Board of Selectmen
i. Alternative name
c. Town Meeting
i. Schedule of meetings
ii. Identify alternative days and times
ili. Communication of Town Meeting
d. Elected Boards with employees
i. Accountable officers
ii. Employee review processes
ili. Termination processes
e. Charter vs. Bylaws for location of
proposed changes
T. Burchfield noted that the charter spells out very detailed information related to the duties of the finance
department, whereas this level of detail is not replicated in any other bodies mentioned in the charter. She
encouraged us to look into this before meeting with the town manager. J. Toale noted that there may be a historical
reason for this, and B. Ebersole may have more insight.
f. Director of Facilities
g. Town Clerk
i. Elected or appointed
h. Review highlights of Articles 1, 2, 3, & 4
i. Discuss Article 5 through end of Charter
===PAGE 2===
b. Members should come on January 24 with suggested questions for Town Manager
7. PUBLIC COMMENT
Rhonda Lisio - stated that she's an average member of the public and will recommend a change to the
charter and feels that her opinion is just as important as everyone else's.
8. BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS
9. MEETING SCHEDULE:
Meetings are held at Ritter Memorial Building, 7:00 PM, on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the
month, unless otherwise indicated. Upcoming meetings:
February 7.
Skipping Valentines Day
February 21
February 28
10. ADJOURNMENT
