===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Gray (Community Representative), Heather Sroka (School Committee, Jim LaVeck (School Committee),
Steve Archambault (Community Representative) (arrived late)
Absent: Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Terri Burchfield (Finance Committee)
Also present: Katie Adams
Chairman Ebersole welcomed new members Heather and Jim.
Jim raised a question: Is there a conflict with Steve and his wife (school employee)? Bob said no; Steve
would recuse himself if needed.
Minutes of 4/5/2018: Jamie moved to approve; Mark seconded; all in favor.
Public comment: Katie Adams said she enjoyed her time on the charter review committee and she is
only leaving because she has joined the BOS and was not reappointed.
Review public hearing feedback
Our report
Minority report
• Commission comments
• Public comments
Bob's comment: Public hearing should have been earlier in the process; cancelled due to weather.
When we had the hearing, we got lots of good feedback. Bob attended follow on meetings with
several boards to apologize for lack of clarity on some of the changes. Town Manager has met with
various commissions to clarify the hiring process; we will further clarify language.
Care and maintenance of cemetery, BOH, parks need to be clarified.
Appointment of Town Accountant: concern on checks and balances; what do other towns do?
Town Clerk split opinion; same on selectmen/selectboard.
Bring back discussion on minimum votes for a candidate not on the ballot.
Won't be revisiting representative TM nor term limits.
Two annual meetings: some support for it but more work is needed.
Heather said the School Committee recommends that they "appoint" the superintendent.
Jamie: consider stand-alone items for making changes to charter.
===PAGE 2===
time in the schedule to accommodate meetings with them.
Bob: We seek input but at the end it's a recommendation from this commission
Bob: We need to revisit committee assignments; Mark willing to keep his assignments; Jamie willing
to keep his assignments; Nancy willing to keep her assignments.
Katie's assignments need to be covered. Mike's assignments need to be covered. Jim said APDC also
was not covered
Bob will assemble a list of assignments; this will inform if we want to bring other committees to
meet with us.
Review schedule
Talked about timing of fall town meeting and the likely date for a special TM. Proposed bylaw:
second Tuesday in Nov (Nov 13).
Working backwards from thjs date, we would need to have wording complete by the mailing date
for the warrant, say first week of Oct (Oct 8). Public hearing first week of Sep. Mark: We should
consider having two (at least) public hearings. Jamie: We may want to target spring TM because this
schedule may not be doable. All agreed.
Report out (interim) at Fall TM, hold a public hearing shortly afterward, hold another public hearing
once we do our follow up work.
Jamie: We should meet as soon as we can to set the schedule and make committee assignments.
Plan to meet Jun 27, whoever can make it.
Bob will organize what we already have into the three categories.
Time is of the essence but we all agree to target ATM.
Jim: He wasn't on the committee but he thought we did a good job.
Bob: We should prepare a pros and cons document for both side of controversial issues.
Jamie: Consider whether we need a super majority or a simple one; we should have a process
discussion.
Adjournment: Jamie moved to adjourn at 7:44, Mark seconded, unanimous
Respectfully submitted: Mark Erickson
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 09 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
