===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG   
Charter Review Committee  
 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
Wednesday, September 12, 2018 – 7:00 PM 
Ritter Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
 
MINUTES 
 
1.  CALL TO ORDER 
Heather absent; all others present 
 
2.  PUBLIC COMMENT 
None 
 
3.  APPROVE MINUTES 
August 8 & 22 
M. Erickson motion to approve minutes, second by J. Taole 
Discussion with B. Ebersole, M. Erickson, and T. Burchfield: in the conversion from the town websites, the minutes 
and agendas haven’t passed over. Housing Authority is mentioned in the Charter, but their duties don’t match their 
responsibilities. In T. Burchfield’s opinion, their minutes don’t reflect what the charter has charged them to do.  
J. Toale moved to approve minutes, second by T. Burchfield, all aye. 
 
 
4.  DISCUSS MEETING AND OUTREACH SCHEDULE 
Nathan Lockwood will attend next meeting to discuss rank choice voting 
Phyllis and Carl Luck will attend to discuss write-in voting requirements 
 
 
5.  DISCUSS VOTING REQUIREMENTS FOR WRITE-IN CANDIDATES 
 A. When there isn’t a name on the ballot 
Postponed 
 
6.  CONTINUED DISCUSSION ON PROPOSED CHANGES 
T. Burchfield suggested that we should task out the strong issues to work through language. About 250 words. M. 
Jeffreys volunteered to write the pro for change to Select Board. The group will seek the public for a strong opinion 
against this. M. Jeffreys volunteered to write the against to the change to the Town Clerk to appointed instead of 
elected. Discussion on other controversial topics: Two town meetings raised concerns; B. Ebersole will follow-up 
with Town Counsel to delineate the differences between Annual Town Meeting and Special Town Meeting to 
determine whether the change should specify one over the other. J. Toale stated that he understood our decision to 
be two meeting without differentiation. S. Archambault is under the impression that we were seeking to get two 
town meetings. 
 
B. Ebersole noted that Rank choice voting; Minimum number of signatures — may need statements depending on 
how the committee votes. 
 
J. Toale asked if the language added to clarify the relationship between boards with employees is controversial. B. 
Ebersole noted that we’re still not clear on the termination process when employees are appointed by the town 
manager and ratified by elected boards. There is a lack of clarity when appointed boards have employees. J. Toale 
added that we need to continue to work with the boards that raised issues during the public hearing. M. Jeffreys 
asked who is responsible for reaching out to the boards. Discussion that the the Cemetery, Parks, Sewer, and 
Cemetery need to get reengaged about employment. B. Ebersole recommends that we add a future agenda of an 
employment topic. 
 
===PAGE 2===
J. Toale noted that there is conflict within the Charter on the appointing process to fill vacancies  
 
2.2 – assistant Town Moderator — later in the charter there is a reference to this section with additional verbiage 
2.3 – town moderator — appointing personnel to committees  
3.1 – f,1,2,3 — filling vacancies of elected positions. Failure to elect town officer (town clerk or town moderator) 
the Selectman shall appoint. Multi-member body will make notice of vacancy to public, and with the Board of 
Selectman, shall have a joint vote. There’s no provision if they don’t forward a notice to the BOS on how to appoint. 
There is a reference to 7.10 which may or may not apply to elected officials and employees.  
7.10 – vacancy in elected town office, the appointing authority shall post vacancy within 10 days — is the 
appointing authority two joint boards 
3.2,d – Selectman appointments – no discussion on vacancies, only reappointments 
3.8,c – town moderator — the deputy moderator’s duties are expressed, but appointments are to a date certain. S. 
Archambault read previous notes in which The moderator requested for the BOS, with the Town Moderator, to 
appoint a deputy not at town meeting but at the first BOS meeting of the year.  
4.1 – Town Manager appointment 
4.4,a - c – In working copy of the charter, c was deleted but in the current draft, it’s still there. 
7.8,f – Finance committee – J. Taole noted that language could cause conflict with a broad search for a replacement 
versus a time crunch to fill a vacancy and is inconsistent with 2.3. B. Ebersole recommended that the BOS appoint 
personnel to a committee noted in 2.3 to be able to fill vacancies. J. Taole is concerned that the 30 days sets a time 
limit that doesn’t benefit the appointing authority in being able to select a qualified candidate when there is interest 
in the position. Question of when the 30 days starts — from vacancy or outreach. M. Erickson noted that the clock 
should be stopped when candidates are clearly known. J. Toale noted that the board may need a mechanism to 
trigger the board to act, B. Ebersole noted that there could be a dynamic in which this could be worked around and 
that the effect could be a self-perpetuating board. B. Ebersole noted that the personnel committee may want to 
produce job descriptions for appointed roles so that community members are informed on what the different roles 
do. 
 
  
7. NEXT MEETING 
 September 26 
 
 First meeting in October to discuss employment 
 Question on if the School Committee decided on the “elect, select, appoint” language for the 
Superintendent 
 B. Ebersole will follow up with Town Clerk to help finalize the calendar. Calendar is in minutes from 
22AUG 
 
 
8. ADJOURNMENT 
Motion by T. Burchfield, Second by M. Erickson. 7:54PM 