===PAGE 1===
Charter Review Committee 
Minutes from meeting of 8/22/2018  
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: 7:01 
Present: Bob Ebersole (Selectmen), Jaime Toale (Selectmen), Terri Burchfield (Finance Committee), 
Mark Erickson (Finance Committee), Nancy Gray (Community Representative),  
Absent: Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Jim LaVeck (School Committee), Steve Archambault 
(Community Representative), Heather Sroka (School Committee)  
Also present: Rhonda Lisio, Dave Passios 
Minutes of August 8, 2018:  Not ready 
Bob provided 4 Handouts for review and discussion: 
1. “Write-ins” language as drafted by Carl Luck tracks State law; “failure to elect” would then 
default to the appointing process. Mark said he is willing to reconsider this proposed change. 
Jamie said he is also willing to reconsider but doesn’t care for the language as drafted. Nancy 
said she should would need to think more about it. Terri asked, how often does it come up? 
 Bob to put this back on our agenda. 
2. Ranked choice voting: Bob said we should consider having someone come in to present on the 
topic and he would add it to our schedule and agenda. 
3. MGL 231A Section 1: Power to make declaratory determination. This section of MGL is referred 
to in section 7-11 of our Charter and Bob is providing it for clarity. 
4. A calendar to assist in developing our schedule. 
Develop Meeting and Outreach Schedule:  
The warrant for ATM closes Mar 19-21; we should have two or three public hearings prior to a final vote 
of the committee by Mar 13 (ideally); we also have until Apr 8 for the warrant to be published. 
Special Town meeting is Tue, Nov 13, at which time we would issue a status report. The first public 
hearing would be the week of 11/26 depending on availability of Town Hall; the second public hearing 
could be the week of Jan 21. 
We will publish a proposed draft in advance of any public hearing. 
We would then appear before the BOS the first or second week of February to present our proposal. 
We discussed having a preliminary vote for the STM report by Oct 10 (warrant closes Oct 9). 
We talked about inviting various parties to meet with us and getting them on the schedule: 
Carl and Phyllis Luck to discuss write-ins; 
Heather to review her recommendations; 
Park, cemetery, sewer: option to meet with us, after taking out (non)-clarifying language; 
===PAGE 2===
Library should be ok but we should give them the option to meet with us; 
Housing authority is mentioned in the charter; if they’re not following the charter, we should 
consider amending the charter accordingly. 
Continue Discussion on Proposed Changes: 
Bob said he would provide a clean copy at our next meeting. 
The plan is to have separate votes on corrections, non-controversial change and controversial changes, 
each individually. Bob said the way we run Town Meeting requires this. We would present both sides of 
any proposed change, not in the warrant, but for the public hearings. By the time we get to Annual 
Town Meeting, arguments on both sides should be clear. 
Next Meeting: 
September 12 
Public comment:  
None 
Adjournment: 7:37 (Terri, Mark, unanimous) 
 