===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
vitals used, 1co
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue
Time: 7:02PM
Present: Jaime Toale (Selectmen), Katey Adams (School Committee Representative), Mark Erickson (Finance
Committee), Michael-Ray Jeffreys (Planning Board), Michael Mackin (School Committee Representative), Terri
Burchfield (Finance Committee), Nancy Gray (Community Representative)
Absent: Bob Ebersole (Selectman), Steve Archambault (Community Representative)
1. CALL TO ORDER
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
none
3. BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS
none
4. MINUTES APPROVAL
10 January
Changes recommended
5. DISCUSSION
a. Responses from Committees/Boards
b. Board of Selectmen
i. Alternative name
c. Town Meeting
i. Schedule of meetings
ii. Identify alternative days and times
iii. Communication of Town Meeting
d. Elected Boards with employees
i. Accountable officers
11. Employee review processes
ili. Termination processes
e. Charter vs. Bylaws for location of
proposed changes
f. Director of Facilities
g. Town Clerk
i. Elected or appointed
h. Review highlights of Articles 1, 2, 3, & 4
i. Discuss Article 5 through end of Charter
j. Establish timeline to complete review
k. Brainstorn
1. Discuss posting a town survey
T. Burchfield forwarded a sample survey template via email prior to the meeting. M. Erickson asked if the
recommended electronic format would limit participation. T. Burchfield expressed the importance of having a paper
version. S. Archambault recommended a cut-off date for the survey for voters to know when it needs to be
m. Meet with Town Manager
===PAGE 2===
the Board of selectman, it seems logical to include the town treasurer and town Collection, tererence to the
Planning Direction which should be Land Use Director
Section 4-2(e) - recommended changing language so that it doesn't sound like the Personnel Board is involved in
Performance Evaluations and Collective Bargaining agreements. Delete the first clause and replace with "to the
Personnel Administrator whom is..".
Section 4-2(i) - add the pronoun her
Section 4-2(I) - add in "add bargaining units" to clarify that the Town Manager can negotiate contracts with
bargaining units
Section 4-2(m) - delete specific reference to MGL and replace with "the General Laws," to encompass laws as they
change.
Section 5-3 - Replace the first clause with "There shall be a department of finance and financial services headed by
a director of municipal finance who is either the Town Manager or his/her appointee per Article 4.
Section 5-3(c) - The town manager is designated as the Chief Financial Officer, but this contradicts the first
sentence in Section 4-2. To resolve this, there was consensus that the Town Manager appoint the Chief Financial
Officer and act in that capacity in the absence of such an appointment. B. Ebersole recommended continuing
discussion on the financial relationships. General discussion about the checks and balances within town finances.
Consensus to allow the Town Manager to appoint the Town Accountant with the recommendation of the Board of
Selectmen.
Section 5-3(m) - The "division of procurement" is the Town Manager's responsibility.
is mailed to every household in the town.
Section 6-5 - The Budget. Delete "In the presentation of the budget, the town manager shall utilize modern concepts
of fiscal presentation so as to furnish maximum information and the best financial control." Given recent
technological trends, this is no longer needed. Minor changes in language noted. Delete c and replace with "Identify
all other available sources of funding."
S. Archambault read a message forwarded by Tim Murphy (Town Moderator) noted that termination process for the
town manager, as noted in the Charter, may not provide her with enough right. J. Toale and M. Jeffreys mentioned
that the facilities management role falls under most departments without a designated person and was asked if the
role should be a separate department head. M. Erickson noted that Information Technology is not in the Charter but
it is a requirement.
J. Toale noted there's a need to synchronize the roles of town employees as they work with Town Boards.
6. ACTION ITEMS BEFORE NEXT MEETING
a. Continue to communicate with boards, committees, and departments to identify organizational
inefficiencies and needs.
b. B. Ebersole will create two marked-up Charters: one with substantive changes and one without.
Members interested in making additional changes not already discussed should forward that to B. Ebersole before
the next meeting.
7. PUBLIC COMMENT
none
8. BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS
===PAGE 3===

