 When such a student is served in an in-district program, the school district with programmatic responsibility may bill and shall receive payment for the special education costs (using the procedures of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 10.07 to calculate such costs, including transportation expenses where applicable) from the school district where the parent(s) or legal guardian resides.

 When such a student is served in an out-of-district placement, the school district where the parent(s) or legal guardian resides shall pay the tuition costs for the student's Individualized Education Program IEP placement directly to the out-of-district school, and such other payments as may be required to other individuals or entities that provide services in the student's Individualized Education Program IEP .

 The school district with programmatic responsibility shall invite the school district where the parent(s) or legal guardian resides to participate as a member of the student's Team, providing that such participation shall not limit the student's right to timely evaluation and placement in accordance with 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00.

 (6) Program schools. A program school shall have programmatic and financial responsibility for enrolled students, subject only to specific finance provisions of any pertinent state law related to the program school. Specific provisions for program schools are as follows:

 (a) For charter schools, Commonwealth of Massachusetts virtual schools, vocational schools, or schools attended under Massachusetts General Laws M.G.L. c. 76, § 12A (Metco), when the Team determines that the student may need an out-of-district placement, the Team shall conclude the meeting pursuant to 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.06(2)(e) without identifying a specific placement type, and shall notify the school district where the student resides within two school days.

 Upon a determination as in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(6)(a), the program school shall schedule another meeting to determine placement, and shall invite representatives of the school district where the student resides to participate as a member of the placement team pursuant to 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.06(2)(e)(1).

 The Team meeting convened by the program school shall first consider if the school district where the student resides has an in-district program that could provide the services recommended by the Team, and if so, the program school shall arrange with the school district where the student resides to deliver such services or develop an appropriate in-district program at the program school for the student.

 If the placement Team, in accordance with the procedures of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.06(2)(e), determines that the student requires an out-of-district program to provide the services identified on the student's Individualized Education Program IEP , then the placement proposed to the parent shall be an out-of district day or residential school, depending on the needs of the student. Upon parental acceptance of the proposed Individualized Education Program IEP and proposed placement, programmatic and financial responsibility shall return to the school district where the student resides. The school district where the student resides shall implement the placement determination of the Team consistent with the requirements of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.06(3).

 (b) For schools attended pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws M.G.L. c. 76, § 12B (school choice), such schools may bill and receive payment from the school district where the student resides for the costs of out-of-district placements made by the program school. The program school shall invite the school district where the student resides to participate as a member of the student's Team and shall provide notice of the Team meeting at least five school days prior to the meeting, provided that such participation shall not limit the student's right to a timely evaluation and placement in accordance with 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00.

 (c) A Vocational school shall not discriminate in the enrollment of students with disabilities.

 A vocational school may not accept students with disabilities on a conditional basis unless the vocational school has procedures that ensure that the reasons for conditional acceptance are equally applied to students without disabilities.

 A vocational school may serve as an "evaluation site" for a student requiring an extended evaluation under the provisions of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.05(2)(b) if the evaluative information that is required is primarily vocational in nature. In such circumstances, the student is not considered enrolled in the vocational school, nor shall an extended evaluation be considered a temporary placement. For the duration of the extended evaluation the student shall be considered enrolled in the public school district in which he or she was enrolled prior to the extended evaluation.

 (7) Temporary Assignments. The Department reserves the right to assign temporary responsibility in cases where the student is not receiving services or when lack of assignment threatens the student's placement or program. Such temporary assignment shall be made based on the information available to the Department. The temporary district shall have all of the rights and responsibilities assigned to districts under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00. The temporary district may bill and shall be eligible to receive payment for the special education costs (using the procedures of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 10.07 to calculate such costs, including transportation expenses where applicable) from the district assigned responsibility for that period of time for which a temporary district was identified.

 (8) Department Assignment of School District Responsibility. 

 (a) The Department may assign or a school district or agency may request the Department's assistance in assigning a city, town, or school district to be responsible for students in living situations described in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(3),(4), or (5) in the following circumstances.

 Students who are in the care or custody of a state agency and have no parent or legal guardian residing in Massachusetts; or

 When the residence or residential history of the student's parent(s) or legal guardian is in dispute; or

 When the student has a legal guardian who has been appointed on a limited basis; or

 When a student has not yet been determined to be eligible and/or is not receiving services, or

 When a student is in the care or custody of a state agency and is hospitalized and the agency gives notice to the responsible school district that the student will not return to the residence held prior to hospitalization.

 (b) A request for an assignment shall not limit the right of the student to timely evaluation, services, or placement in accordance with 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00. The school district or state agency requesting assignment shall be responsible for providing to the Department all required documentation to ascertain the legal status or residence(s) of the student or the student's parent(s) or legal guardian.

 (c) The Department shall use the following criteria to assign a city, town or school district responsibility for a student in a living situation described in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(3), (4), or (5).

 If the child has been voluntarily surrendered for adoption or freed for adoption by the Probate Court or the Juvenile Court, the school district(s) where the parent(s) lived at the time that the child was surrendered or freed for adoption or when parental rights were terminated shall be responsible.

 If the student is in the care or custody of a state agency and such state agency has obtained a legal guardianship for the student when the student has turned 18 years old, the school district(s) where the parent(s) lived at the time the court granted the request for guardianship shall be responsible.

 If the parents' rights have been terminated and the Probate Court or the Juvenile Court has appointed a legal guardian for a minor student, the school district where the legal guardian resides shall be responsible.

 If the legal guardian is an agency or organization or the legal guardian has been appointed on a limited basis such as a guardian ad litem, or a guardian appointed solely to monitor medications or finances, the school district where the parent(s) lives or last lived shall be responsible.

 If the student's parents live in two different school districts, such school districts shall be jointly responsible for fulfilling the requirements of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00 except if the student actually resided with either parent immediately prior to going into a living situation described in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(3) or (4) or the parents are divorced or separated and one parent has sole physical custody, then the school district where the student resided with the parent or the school district of the parent who has sole physical custody shall be responsible and shall remain responsible in the event the student goes into the care or custody of a state agency.

 If the student's parent(s) or legal guardian resides in an institutional setting in Massachusetts, including, but not limited to, a correctional facility, a hospital, a nursing home or hospice, or a mental health facility, a halfway house, a pre-release center or a treatment facility, the school district where the parent(s) or legal guardian lived prior to entering the institutional setting shall be responsible.

 If the student's parent(s) or legal guardian does not reside in Massachusetts, and the parent's or legal guardian's whereabouts are unknown, the school district of the last known Massachusetts residence of the student's parent(s) or legal guardian who lived in Massachusetts shall be responsible.

 (d) Using the above criteria, the Department shall notify in writing the assigned school district(s) of its decision. Upon notification of responsibility for provision of special education to a student under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(8)(d), the school district(s) shall immediately assume responsibility for the student in accordance with the requirements of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00. Until such notification, the school district(s) that had been responsible for providing special education to such student under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00 shall continue to be responsible.

 (e) The school district(s) that had been responsible for providing special education to the student prior to assignment by the Department under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(8)(d) may bill and shall be eligible to receive payment (using the procedures of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 10.07 to calculate such costs, including transportation expenses where applicable), from the newly assigned district for the special education costs that were incurred during the period of time in which the newly assigned district should have been responsible.

 (f) A school district may seek a review of the Department's assignment under the procedures of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(8) at any time that the district has information that was not available to the Department at the time that the assignment was made. The Department will review the information presented and will confirm or change the assignment of school district responsibility, and notify the districts of this decision under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(8)(d).

 (9) Appeal of Assignment of School District Responsibility. The assigned district may appeal the Department's assignment of responsibility to the Bureau of Special Education Appeals, subject to the following procedures:

 (a) A district may appeal the assignment of school district responsibility within 60 days of the most recent notification of assignment.

 (b) The request for appeal shall meet the following standards:

 A request for appeal shall be based only on the information provided to the Department under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(8)(b) and 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.10(8)(f) if applicable;

 The request shall state the basis of the appeal;

 The request for appeal shall identify the district(s) that the appealing district claims should have been assigned responsibility; and

 The appealing district shall include such district(s) as a party to the appeal.

 (c) A party may request a decision without a hearing with the agreement of all parties.

 (d) The Bureau of Special Education Appeals shall render a decision within 45 days of receipt of the hearing request. The granting of a postponement shall not extend the 45-day deadline for issuance of a decision unless the postponement is requested by a party and allowed by the hearing officer for good cause.

 (e) The Bureau of Special Education Appeals may return the case to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education based on new information presented at the hearing.

 (f) The decision of the Bureau of Special Education Appeals shall be limited to a determination of the assigned school district and the effective date of such assignment.

 28.11: Discipline Procedures for Eligible Students

 (1) Authority of school personnel. 

 (a) Case-by-case determination. School personnel may consider any unique circumstances on a case-by-case basis when determining whether a change in placement, consistent with the other requirements of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11, is appropriate for an eligible student who violates a code of student conduct.

 (b) General. School personnel under this section may remove an eligible student who violates a code of student conduct from their current placement to an appropriate interim alternative educational setting, another setting, or suspension, for not more than 10 consecutive school days (to the extent those alternatives are applied to students without disabilities), and for additional removals of not more than 10 consecutive school days in that same school year for separate incidents of misconduct, so long as those removals do not constitute a change in placement under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(7).

 (c) Additional authority. For disciplinary changes in placement under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(7), if the behavior that gave rise to the violation of the school code is determined not to be a manifestation of the eligible student's disability pursuant to 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(e), school personnel may apply the relevant disciplinary procedures to the eligible student in the same manner and for the same duration as the procedures would be applied to students without disabilities, except as provided in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(d).

 (d) Services. 

 An eligible student who is removed from their current placement pursuant to 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11 must receive educational services during periods of removal consistent with Massachusetts General Laws M.G.L. c. 71, §§ 37H, 37H½, and 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 53.00.

 An eligible student who is removed from their current placement pursuant to 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(c) or (g) must:

 Continue to receive educational services as necessary to provide a free appropriate public education, to enable the student to continue to participate in the general education curriculum, although in another setting, and to progress toward meeting the goals set out in the student's Individualized Education Program IEP ; and

 Receive, as appropriate, a functional behavioral assessment, and behavioral intervention services and modifications, that are designed to address the behavior violation so that it does not recur.

 If the removal is a change of placement under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(7), the student's Team determines appropriate services under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(d)(2).

 The services required by 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(d) may be provided in an interim alternative educational setting.

 (e) Manifestation Determination. 

 Within 10 school days of any decision to change the placement of an eligible student because of a violation of a code of student conduct, the district, the parent, and relevant members of the student's Team (as determined by the parent and the district) must review all relevant information in the student's file, including the student's Individualized Education Program IEP , any teacher observations, and any relevant information provided by the parents to determine—

 If the conduct in question was caused by, or had a direct and substantial relationship to, the student's disability; or

 If the conduct in question was the direct result of the district's failure to implement the Individualized Education Program IEP .

 The conduct must be determined to be a manifestation of the student's disability if the school district, the parent, and relevant members of the student's Team determine that a condition in either 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(e)(1)(a) or (b) was met.

 If the school district, the parent, and relevant members of the student's Team determine the condition of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(e)(1)(b) was met, the district must take immediate steps to remedy those deficiencies.

 (f) Determination that behavior was a manifestation. If the school district, the parent, and relevant members of the Team make the determination that the conduct was a manifestation of the student's disability, the Team must:

 Either —

 Conduct a functional behavioral assessment, unless the district had conducted a functional behavioral assessment before the behavior that resulted in the change of placement occurred, and implement a behavioral intervention plan for the student; or

 If a behavioral intervention plan already has been developed, review the behavioral intervention plan, and modify it, as necessary, to address the behavior; and

 Except as provided in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(g), return the student to the placement from which the student was removed, unless the parent and the school district agree to a change of placement as part of the modification of the behavioral intervention plan.

 (g) Special Circumstances. 

 School personnel may remove a student to an interim alternative educational setting for not more than 45 school days without regard to whether the behavior is determined to be a manifestation of the student's disability, if the student does one of the following:

 Carries a dangerous weapon to or possesses a dangerous weapon at school, on school premises, or to or at a school function under the jurisdiction of the Department or a school district;

 Knowingly possesses or uses illegal drugs, or sells or solicits the sale of a controlled substance while at school, on school premises, or at a school function under the jurisdiction of the Department or a school district;

 Has inflicted serious bodily injury upon another person while at school, on school premises, or at a school function under the jurisdiction of the Department or a school district.

 For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:

 Controlled substance means a drug or other substance identified under schedules I, II, III, IV, or V in section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act ( 21 United States Code U.S.C. 812(c) ).

 Illegal drug means a controlled substance; but does not include a controlled substance that is legally possessed or used under the supervision of a licensed health-care professional or that is legally possessed or used under any other authority under state or federal law.

 Serious bodily injury has the meaning given the term "serious bodily injury" under paragraph (3) of subsection (h) of section 1365 of title 18, United States Code.

 Dangerous weapon has the meaning given the term "dangerous weapon" under paragraph (2) of the first subsection (g) of section 930 of title 18, United States Code.

 (h) Notification. Not later than the date on which the decision to take disciplinary action, as permitted by this section, is made, the school district must notify the parents of that decision and provide the parents with the procedural safeguards notice as described in 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. § 300.504. Such notice shall be consistent with state law requirements.

 (2) Determination of setting. The student's Team determines the interim alternative setting for services under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(c), (d)(4), and (g).

 (3) Appeal. 

 (a) General. The parent of an eligible student who disagrees with any decision regarding placement under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1) or (2) or the manifestation determination under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(e), or a school district that believes that maintaining the current placement of the student is substantially likely to result in injury to the student or others, may appeal the decision by requesting a hearing with the Bureau of Special Education Appeals. The hearing is requested by filing a complaint pursuant to 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. §§ 300.507 and 300.508(a) and is conducted on an expedited basis pursuant to the Bureau of Special Education Appeals Hearing Rules.

 (b) Authority of hearing officer. 

 Consistent with 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. § 300.511, a hearing officer hears and makes a determination regarding the appeal.

 In making such determination, the hearing officer may:

 Return the eligible student to the placement from which the student was removed if the hearing officer determines that the removal was a violation of 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1) or that the student's behavior was a manifestation of the student's disability; or

 Order a change of placement of the eligible student to an appropriate interim educational setting for not more than 45 school days if the hearing officer determines that maintaining the current placement is substantially likely to result in injury to the student or to others.

 The procedures in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(3)(a) and (b) may be repeated to request continuation of an interim alternative education placement ordered under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(3)(b)(2) if the district believes that returning the student to the original placement is substantially likely to result in injury to the student or others.

 The hearing officer's determination may be appealed consistent with 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. § 300.514.

 (4) Placement during appeals. 

 (a) When an appeal under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(3) has been made by either the parent or the district, the student must remain in the interim alternative setting pending the decision of the hearing officer or until the expiration of the time period specified in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1)(c) or (g), whichever occurs first, unless the parent and the district agree otherwise.

 (5) Protections for students not determined eligible for special education and related services. 

 (a) General. A student who has not been determined eligible for special education and related services and who has engaged in behavior that violated a code of student conduct, may assert any of the protections provided for in 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11 if the district had knowledge, as determined in accordance with this paragraph, that the student was a student with a disability before the behavior that precipitated the disciplinary action occurred.

 (b) Basis of knowledge. A district will be deemed to have knowledge that a student is an eligible student if before the behavior that precipitated the disciplinary action occurred:

 The parent of the student expressed concern in writing to supervisory or administrative personnel, or a teacher of the student, that the student is in need of special education and related services;

 The parent of the student requested an evaluation of the student pursuant to 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. §§ 300.300 through 300.311 and 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.04; or

 The teacher of the student, or other district personnel, expressed specific concerns about a pattern of behavior demonstrated by the student directly to the director of special education of the district or to other school or district administrators.

 (c) Exception. A district will not be deemed to have knowledge if:

 The parent of the student:

 Has not allowed an evaluation of the student pursuant to 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. §§ 300.300 through 300.311 and 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.04; or

 Has refused special education services; or

 The student has been evaluated in accordance with 34 Code of Federal Regulations C.F.R. §§ 300.300 through 300.311 and 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.04 and determined not to be eligible.

 (d) Conditions that apply if no basis of knowledge. 

 If a district does not have knowledge that a student is an eligible student prior to taking disciplinary measures against the student, the student may be subjected to the disciplinary measures applied to students without disabilities who engage in comparable behaviors.

 If a request is made for an evaluation of a student during the time period in which the student is subjected to disciplinary measures under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1), the evaluation must be conducted in an expedited manner.

 Until the evaluation is completed, the student remains in the educational placement determined by the school authorities, which can include suspension or expulsion; provided however, that for disciplinary action taken pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws M.G.L. c. 71, §§37H, 37H½, 37H¾ or 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 53.00, the student shall have the opportunity to make academic progress during the period of removal consistent with state law.

 If the student is determined to be an eligible student, taking into consideration information from the evaluation conducted by the district and information provided by the parent, the district must provide special education and related services in accordance with federal and state special education law, including 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11.

 (6) Referral to and action by law enforcement and judicial authorities. 

 (a) Rule of construction. Nothing in this part prohibits a district from reporting a crime committed by an eligible student to appropriate authorities or prevents state or local law enforcement and judicial authorities from exercising their responsibilities with regard to the application of federal and state law to crimes committed by an eligible student.

 (b) Transmittal of records. 

 A district reporting a crime committed by an eligible student must ensure that copies of the special education and disciplinary records of the student are transmitted for consideration by the appropriate authorities to whom the district reports the crime.

 A district reporting a crime under this section may transmit copies of the student's special education and disciplinary records only to the extent that the transmission is permitted by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, Massachusetts General Laws M.G.L. c. 71, § 37L, and 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 23.00.

 (7) Change of placement because of disciplinary removals. 

 (a) For purposes of removals of an eligible student from the student's current educational placement under 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.11(1) through (6), a change of placement occurs if:

 The removal is for more than 10 consecutive school days; or

 The student has been subjected to a series of removals totaling more than ten cumulative days over the course of the school year. 

 *Technical Changes: 
State agency names shall be revised throughout 603 Code of Massachusetts Regulations CMR 28.00 where necessary to conform to recent statutory name changes.

 Regulatory Authority 

 Massachusetts General Laws M.G.L. c. 69, § 1B; c. 69, §§ 1J and 1K, as amended by St. 2010, c. 12, § 3; c. 71, § 38G.

 Disclaimer :
For an official copy of these regulations, please contact the State House Bookstore, at 617-727-2834 or visit Massachusetts State Bookstore . 

 Last Updated: August 25, 2026 

 This link will take you to an external website which may or may not be accessible and WCAG 2.1 compliant 

 Top 

 Español kreyòl ayisyen Português Tiếng Việt 中文(简体) 
 Powered by Localize 
 Feedback Submit Feedback 
 English


