===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Economic Development Committee
Tuesday, February 10 th, 202 6,  5:30 PM Virtual Via Zoom
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present  Members: Vice Chair Ana Lockwood, Planning Board Representative Matt 
Brenner, Member Judy Dragoslis, Member Jeanne Dupre
Absent Members:  Chair Joeci Gilchrest,  Member Cathy Clark, Select Board 
Representative Glen n  McLeod
The meeting opened at 5:30 PM.
1. Public comment
 There were no comments from the public.
2. Introduction from Stephen Wallace
 The new Director  of Planning and Economic  Development , Stephen Wallace , 
was present. Previously he worked with the town of Westminster and the city of 
Leominster.
Stephen Wallace shared his interest in promoting  the town and local business.  
He suggested advertising in the North Central Middlesex visitor guide  and 
providing  a newsletter  to be posted at  the Johnny Appleseed visitor center.  
Stephen Wallace has had previous success with creating a brochure  that  
includes local businesses with descriptions as well as a map. After reviewing the 
town website, Stephen Wallace suggested adding direct links to regional partners
such as Mass Development and Mass Econ.
Ana Lockwood inquired for information about zoning bylaws for town spaces 
under 2,000 square feet . Stephen Wallace has already spoken to the building  
commission,  and they are working on a minor site plan review. There may be a 
need  to amend the site language in zoning which would require an amendment. If
a site plan regulation needs to be amended  this can be completed at a public 
hearing with the Planning Board.
Matt Brenner  suggested a subgroup be created if he is in need of  any feedback 
or support during the week. 
3. Guest Speaker, Leominster Economic Development Director
 The Leominster Economic Development Coordinator, Amanda Curtis , was 
present and provided the Committee with information.  She spoke about 
sponsorships as well as utilizing grants.
To promote local business in town, t here is a monthly newsletter that is published
around the city as well as an  electronic form.   The newsletter  consists of 8 pages 
===PAGE 2===
promoting positive happenings in the city, programs as well as city events. 
Another form of outreach they utilize  is a private Facebook  group. There was 
discussion about successful projects within the city .
4. Update from Planning Board
 Matt Brenner stated the old auto lot located at 30 Summer Street may be turned 
into  a multi-story  indoor storage facility. There have been  no additional 
updates since the last meeting.
Stephen Wallace stated Han nigan Engineering wants to schedule a meeting with 
himself and the building commissioner. There is interest in building a large facility , 
but  no address was provided at this time.
5. BYOB discussion
 Matt Brenner and Ana Lockwood met with Town Counsel Adam Costa to discuss 
a possible BYOB polic y . Following their conversation, they concluded that no 
special permission is required  if  the business is not a restaurant. Additionally, 
there are no state regulations  for non-restaurant businesses  regarding BYOB .
6. Business Overview from Cathy Clark
 Cathy Clark was not present,  and Ana Lockwood didn ’t receive any email 
updates.
7. Topics for next meeting
 Ana Lockwood advises Committee to email any potential topics to Joeci 
Gilchrest.
8. Committee comment
 There were no Committee comments.
9. Adjourn
 There was a motion to adjourn by Jeanne Dupre , seconded by Judy Dragoslis . 
Roll call vote. Jeanne Dupre  aye, Judy Dragoslis  aye, Ana Lockwood aye.
The meeting closed  at 6:28 PM.