===PAGE 1===
 
  
LUNENBURG PUBLIC 
SCHOOLS 
FY20 Budget 
Annual Town Meeting 
May 4, 2019 
===PAGE 2===
FY20 School Department Identified Budget Needs: 
Funded, Unfunded, and Reductions 
 
The District Leadership Team identified the essential personnel and non-personnel components 
necessary for the School Department to operate in an effective, efficient, and timely manner to 
meet the needs of all learners.   
 
Funded, Budget Needs  
 
Administration/District 
 Central Office Secretary:  This new secretary position will assist Business Office with bi-
weekly payroll, Human Resource Office with filing and processing requests, Facilities 
and Grounds with the online permitting system and billing, IT Department with billing 
and Superintendent Office with special tasks and coverage.  This position is a critical 
need.  This additional staffing is needed to ensure the Central Office is functioning in an 
efficient, effective, accurate, and timely manner. 
 
Teachers 
 Primary School Teacher, Grade One:  The current FY19 Kindergarten class has six 
sections and requires an additional teacher moving up to the First Grade level.  Based on 
the current Kindergarten class size of 25, an additional Grade 1 is necessary.  Without 
this position, next year Grade 1 class size will be 30.  
  
Instructional Support Staff 
 Primary School, five (5) paraprofessionals:  These positions are associated with one to 
one student services and a new behavioral classroom previously funded in the substitute 
account. 
 
Athletics 
 Unified Basketball Coach:  Unified Sports joins people with and without intellectual 
disabilities on the same team. It was inspired by a simple principle: training together and 
playing together is a quick path to friendship and understanding. In Unified Sports, 
teams are made up of people of similar age and ability. That makes practices more fun 
and games more challenging and exciting for all. Having sport in common is just one 
more way that preconceptions and false ideas are swept away. 
 
Lunenburg High School was a pioneer in the implementation of one of the first unified 
programs in the state several years ago when the unified track was offered. That sport 
which has now grown in the Midland Wachusett League and through the state was only 
the beginning. Other districts throughout the state and in our own league have added 
additional unified offerings such as basketball. 
The season is a 3 to a 4-week season during the last week of October till the 2nd or 3rd week 
of November. The teams play 4-5 games and participate in a jamboree with our league 
schools at the end of the season. The cost to operate the program is minimal, essentially 
needing to fund a coach, and transportation. Another coach or I will officiate for no 
charge, we can either use older basketball uniforms or purchase t-shirts. The school 
already has everything else needed for games and practices. 
Facilities & Grounds 
===PAGE 3===
 Summer Student Custodians, two (2) buildings:  Three temporary employees are hired 
over the summer months to assist with cleaning of the school buildings.  The facility 
revolving account has been the source of funding for these positions for many years.  
This year the revolving account can only support one of the three positions; therefore the 
local budget includes two student custodian positions. 
  
Non-Personnel Expenses 
 Professional Development:  Professional development needs include building a positive 
school culture, literacy, training in the Professional Learning Communities model, 
social/emotional/behavioral supports, and Advanced Placement teacher training.  
 
 Special Education Transportation:  Budgeted amount includes an additional van with 
monitor for new student services. 
 
 General Education Transportation:  With a new contract, there is a 3.45% increase in 
bussing costs included in the budget. 
 
 Out of District Tuitions:  The overall $144,000 increase is a result of one half percent 
anticipated increase to all tuitions as well as higher needs students placed in a more 
service support setting. 
 
 
Unfunded, Budget Needs  
 
Administration/District 
 Director of Teaching and Learning:  This position would help make progress in all eight 
District Strategic Plan goals as well as have a high impact on teaching and learning.  The 
district has not had a Curriculum Director since June 30, 2012.  Due to lack of dedicated 
leadership in teaching and learning, the district is lacking in standards-aligned 
curriculum maps K-8. The NEASC is requiring the High School to develop standards-
aligned curriculum maps for all courses using a common district curriculum map 
template.  Currently there is no district template.  
  
There is a need to develop a literacy plan for the district.  This work cannot be done by a 
Literacy Coach alone, as the role of coach is a full-time position working in classrooms 
with teachers.  
  
There is a critical need for a district-level curriculum leader to have oversight of:  
1.  all curriculum work being done by departments at the high school or in Task Force 
groups to ensure a common template with the critical elements of a rigorous and 
robust curriculum is being utilized,   
2. grants are written to support district priorities in teaching and learning,  
3. foster and develop consistent use of best practice,  
4. professional development in order to support those areas identified as priority need 
to improve teaching and learning,  
5. development of district assessments that can provide needed data to determine 
appropriate interventions for students,  
6. development of a curriculum renewal cycle,  
7. creation of annual professional development plans for the district,  
===PAGE 4===
8. the district mentoring program,  
9. Master Teacher projects that are teaching and learning based. 
  
The district needs a district-level curriculum leader to:  
1. attend meetings held by DESE in order to stay abreast of new initiatives on the 
horizon.  This knowledge allows the district to anticipate, proactively plan, and 
budget for new initiatives and unfunded mandates. 
2. collaborate with other districts to find areas we can share resources, optimize 
resources, and find ways to reduce costs for professional development. 
3. work with the Superintendent and District Leadership Team to execute district goals 
related to teaching and learning. 
  
Teachers 
 Literacy Coach:  This position was included in the budget with alternative funding 
source.  The position will be funded with federal grant monies, if the annual allocation 
can support it.  This new Literacy Coach position is needed to provide expertise in 
literacy instruction as the district begins to design a strong literacy program districtwide, 
but particularly in K-5.  Teachers are going to need in-district expert support as they 
make this transition.  Literacy development is vitally important, particularly in K-3.  The 
Literacy Coach will be able to assist teachers in design of effective whole class lessons, as 
well as interventions for struggling readers and writers. 
 
 Teachers and Paraprofessional:  A determination will be made in July and August 2019 if 
additional staff are needed based on possible increased enrollment this summer.   
 
 Instructional Technology Specialist Teacher/Coach: This position would provide job-
embedded technology professional development and technical support for teachers in 
the classroom. This support may be in the form of researching instructional technology 
tools and applications, co-planning with teachers, providing technical assistance during 
a lesson, and designing and facilitating technology workshops for teachers after school. 
 
Athletics 
 Coaches, Middle School: These positions are associated with an anticipated expansion of 
the Middle School athletic program, should the recommendation for expansion be 
approved by School Committee this spring and paid by student fees.   
 
 Associate Coaches:  Ten (10) Associate Coaches were not funded at this time. 
 
 Athletic Trainer: Athletic Trainers benefit the following: 
Coaches- Full-time athletic trainers are uniquely qualified to facilitate 360-degree 
communication between the coach, the athlete (and/or their parents) and if applicable 
the athlete’s physician. In the morning the AT can communicate with the physician on 
the athlete’s progress, get feedback from the athlete during their lunch break and email 
their status to the coach before an afternoon practice. This circle of communication not 
only provides full transparency during the student’s healing process but also gives the 
coach the time necessary to plan a day’s game or practice based on the student’s 
participation status.  Another advantage enjoyed by coaches with full-time athletic 
trainers on staff is the ability to focus solely on coaching. In some situations, the coach’s 
role expands to overseeing athletic injuries after completing first aid training, placing 
===PAGE 5===
them under undue stress and unnecessary risk of liability. With an athletic trainer on 
staff, the coach can put all their energy into helping the team succeed. 
Athletic Directors- In an increasingly litigious society, it is more important than ever to 
keep detailed records. In an area as sensitive as student health, who better to maintain 
and update these records than an athletic trainer who sees these students every day? 
These records may include Pre-participation physical and evaluation results, student-
athlete interaction and rehabilitation notes. 
Parents- Parents not only benefit from the injury prevention services of athletic trainers 
but also their injury rehabilitation services. With a full time, athletic trainer at their 
child’s school, parents do not need to take off work to for their child’s physical 
rehabilitation appointment and save money on those associated costs. Of course, if the 
parent has a preferred rehabilitation provider, the athletic trainer can work with them 
when rehabilitation is complete to make sure the student is effectively transitioning back 
into participation. 
Students- Athletic trainers have the student athlete’s best interest mind. Athletic trainers 
want to see students excel on the field, but never at the cost of putting themselves at an 
unnecessary risk of injury. It is the athletic trainer’s job to ensure that the student-
athlete has the best possible high school athletic career while keeping them healthy for 
their future, in sports or otherwise. 
 
Budget Reductions, Impact Statements  
 
Teacher Reductions 
THES Enrollment Bubble Teacher to LMS: A grade 7 teacher will be switched to grade 6 
to accommodate the larger class size (138). This will make six grade 6 teachers. The past 
several years we have had 6- 10 new sixth graders register over the summer.   
Grade 7 will function with 5 full-time teachers.  Student enrollment is currently 131, 
making class sizes approximately 26 per class (1 with 27).  
   
Foreign Language Teacher: This would be an elimination of an LMS program developed 
over the past two years in which students are exposed to three languages and different 
cultures in order to make a more informed decision on which foreign language they want 
to take in grade 8.  
This is a true reduction of educational programming for students. LMS will run 6th  and 
7th grade specials and enrichment with one less offering, making enrichment class sizes 
larger (average: 28-29).   
Instructional Support Staff Reductions 
  
Paraprofessional, Study Hall:  This will impact the LHS Advisory program. We will not 
be able to mandate the Thursday 24-minute activity which is the heart of the advisory 
program. Staff will simply be supervising students in study halls.  This impacts teacher 
planning and making connections with students.  
===PAGE 6===
 
Greenhouse Manager (part-time):  There would no longer be small group activities in the 
greenhouse.  Other staff and students would assume the responsibility for watering and 
caring for the plants.  
Athletic Staff Reductions 
Athletic Trainer (proposed new position):  The district will not have an athletic trainer on 
staff.  The district will attempt to contract available athletic trainers in the local area at a 
per diem rate when possible.  The department will continue to provide the safest 
environment within the means available to the student-athletes.  The position is going to 
be a requirement by the state for all athletic departments at some point in the near 
future. This position is vital to help provide an even safer environment for the students 
who participate in athletics.   
  
Non-Personnel Reductions 
  
Paraprofessional Staffing:  A reallocation plan for student coverage will be developed at 
all schools.  This plan will result in the staggered start and end times and reduction of 
daily hours.  
  
School-based Supply Accounts:  All school based office supply and equipment line item 
accounts will be leveled funds for school year 2020.  Schools are reviewing FY19 
accounts for surplus funds to offset FY20 budgets.  
District-wide Stipends:  The district will review all stipends related to additional duties 
and advisors.  Reductions may require impact bargaining with the Lunenburg Education 
Association.  
  
Budget Documents 
The following FY20 budget documents can be found on the Lunenburg Public Schools website at 
the link below. 
 Superintendent’s Proposed FY20 Budget, with executive summary and supporting data 
(12/19/18) 
 Superintendent’s Recommended FY20 Budget (4/3/19) 
 School Department FY20 Budget Presentation to Finance Committee (3/14/19) 
 Superintendent Budget Updates (2/6/19, 3/6/19) 
https://www.lunenburgschools.net/superintendent-of-schools/school-budgets 