===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes    Minutes Approved at the 8/10/10 COA Meeting 
June 8, 2010 
 
Welcome :  Pete Lincoln , Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.  Pete gave kudos to the COA board 
and thanked the Director, staff and the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. for an excellent year.  He als o gave a 
special thanks to COA board member Emily Foster who  will be leaving the board due to term limits.  Pet e 
commented in saying that he believed that the Town of Lunenburg along with the Town Manager and Board of 
Selectmen have come to appreciate the Lunenburg sen ior population and have been very supportive of sen ior 
issues. 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad(Vice C hairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Jane Doyle, 
Bonnie Edes, Sandra Flannagan, Emily Foster, Jim Ha ys, Joyce Wass, Sis Montuori, Barbara Brown, Fred C rellin, and 
Sue Doherty (Administrative Assistant) 
 
Guests:
 Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc. & Barbara Raboin 
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the May 11, 2010 COA meeting minutes as amended.   
All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report : Doreen Noble gave a verbal year end report.  She began by saying that it has been an 
honor and a privilege to serve as Director to the C ouncil on Aging Board.  She gave credit to the COA board saying that 
she appreciates the fact that they do not “micro ma nage” her or how she operates the Eagle House Senio r Center.   
Credit was given to Jane Doyle for her donations to  the center this past year which were a new microwa ve oven and 
pancake breakfast tickets from the Lunenburg/Townse nd Rotary Club.  She also thanked Pete and Deb Linc oln for 
purchasing a new television set for the center.   
Doreen mentioned that she was quite pleased with th e programming at the Eagle House in FY10, especiall y the Grey Belt 
Self Defense Class.  She gave thanks to Officer Mik e Luth who volunteered his time to teach the class and to Chief Dan 
Bourgeois for his support of the program. 
Other agencies which she thanked were Manor on the Hill and Nashoba Home Care who donated free service s to the 
center in FY10.  Doreen also commented on the inter n program from Fitchburg State College which was ve ry successful 
for the senior center and that she would like to be come involved again in FY11 with perhaps a student from Mount 
Wachusett Community College. 
The only negatives were the staffing issues.  The c ustodian, George Pugsley has been laid off beginnin g July 1, 2010 and 
it will be very difficult for the staff at the Eagle House Senior Center.  Not only was George at the Eagle House every day 
for general custodial duties but he was primarily r esponsible for the set up and break down of heavy t ables and chairs for 
different functions at the center. Doreen feels tha t we are already under-staffed and she stressed  the fact that safety is a 
number one priority with her. 
A motion was made and seconded to request to be on the agenda at the next selectmen’s meeting to discu ss custodial 
issues at the Eagle House.  All approved motion carried. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  Doreen reported that on June 1, 2010 there were eight representatives from various engineering firms along 
with Shelly Hatch from MRPC at the Eagle House to walk the grounds and they were all given RFQ’s to complete and 
return back to the Director by June 11, 2010. 
A parking lot committee has been formed and the members are Pete Lincoln, Doreen Noble, Marion Benson, Shelly 
Hatch, Laura Williams and Jim McCarthy. 
 
Softball Fundraiser:  The softball fundraiser with the Eagle House Grannies vs. the Lunenburg Police/Fire will be held at  
Lunenburg High School on Thursday June 17 
th  at 6PM.  All funds raised will be given to the Friends of the Eagle House 
Inc.  The Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lion’s Club will be volunteering to run a concession stand at the game. 
 
===PAGE 2===
COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition Ceremony:   The date which had been set at the May meeting will need to be changed 
due to Eagle House staff vacations.  The date will be determined later. 
 
COA Board Members Term Renewal:  The Board of Selectmen’s office asked to be informed of all COA board members 
who will be returning for FY11.  At this time Bonnie Edes announced that she would not be returning to the board 
because she will be moving out of town.  She said that it has been a pleasure to serve on such an outstanding board and 
that Doreen does an excellent job as Director.  She apologized that she couldn’t have been here longer. 
All other board members with the exception of Emily Foster will be coming back for FY11. 
 
Furloughs:    A discussion about furloughs within the town to help balance the budget was held.  It was mentioned that if 
this should happen again in FY11 that the Eagle House should be closed for the length of the furlough time. 
 
Eagle Heights:   No report 
 
New Business: 
   
 
New Board Member:   A motion was made and seconded to recommend to th e Lunenburg Board of Selectmen that 
Deborah Seeley be appointed as a Selectmen Appointe e to the Lunenburg Council on Aging.  All approved,  motion 
carried. 
This request will be sent to the Selectmen for their consideration. 
 
Election Officers – Chairperson & Vice Chairperson 2011:   A motion was made and seconded to elect Pete Linc oln as 
Council on Aging Chairperson for a one year term an d Mary Lynn Conrad as Council on Aging Vice-Chairpe rson for a 
one year term.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
COA Reappointments – Treasurer & Clerk FY11:  A motion was made and seconded to elect Doreen C Noble as Council 
on Aging Treasurer and Sue Doherty as Council on Aging Clerk for a one year term.  Sue Doherty will al so be allowed to 
continue to sign the employee payroll and sign the bill vouchers for the Council on Aging.  All approved motion carried. 
 
Ideas for FY11 :  A discussion about the amount of COA meetings wh ich are held each year was discussed.  This will be  
revisited again sometime this Fall. 
 
Committee Reports: 
 
 
End of Year Reports:   All COA sub-committees which included, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, Bylaw, and Finance 
committees presented their year end reports to the board.  The Director’s Evaluation report was given verbally last Fall. 
A motion was made and seconded to accept all COA sub-committee reports as presented.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Correspondence: 
  There was no correspondence read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
  COA board member Joyce Wass commented on the Seni or Citizen Prom which was held in May at 
the Eagle House.  She was disappointed that only tw o COA board members attended.  She also commented t hat her 
husband had been reluctant about attending but the end result was that he had a wonderful time and loo ks forward to the 
next one. 
 
Emily Foster was presented with a certificate of appreciation and gift certificate. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, and the motion was carried.   
The meeting ended at 11:10 a.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  