===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes    Minutes Approved at the 4/13/2010 COA Meeting 
March 9, 2010 
 
Welcome :  Pete Lincoln , Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:32 a.m. 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Emily Foster , 
Sandra Flanagan, Joyce Wass, Sis Montuori, Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, and Barbara Brown 
 
Excused: 
  Jane Doyle & Bonnie Edes 
 
Guests:
 Lloyd Carlson, & Heather Brendel 
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the Februa ry 9, 2010  COA meeting minutes as amended.  
All approved, motion carried.  
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report : Heather Brendel read a letter from Montachusett H ome Care (MHC) regarding the state 
home care waiting list.  Doreen Noble stated that s he was on the MHC Crisis Advisory Team and requeste d that letters 
from the Council on Aging members, stating their di sapproval of managed care and to advocate for more funding for 
home care, be returned to her by March 17, 2010. Th ese letters will be sent to Senator Jennifer Flanna gan and 
Representative Jen Benson. 
She also stated that funding for Meals on Wheels co mes under the umbrella of managed care and that the re will be a 
waiting list for that program also. 
 
Due to the large amount of food items that are being taken out of the senior center kitchen without permission, Doreen has 
put in place a new rule that the kitchen will be lo cked after the meal site manager has left for the day.  There will be a key 
available at the front desk for people to use who have a need to get into the kitchen. 
 
Two financial pages were distributed to the COA board members to review.  (see attached) 
The COA budget will see a 7.54% increase in the FY11 budget which will include a new line for sewer use.   
Doreen stated that at a budget meeting the Town Man ager, Kerry Speidel used the Council on Aging as an  example of a 
town department that is doing a good job as a “publ ic service” department. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot Plans:   Heather Brendel read an email from Laura Williams, Selectmen’s Secretary, stating the parking lot 
project at the Eagle House has made it to the top of the Capitol Planning list because the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. 
have made a commitment to contribute money towards the project and the Capitol Planning committee recognizes its 
viability. 
Doreen has been in contact with Shelly Hatch, grant writer from the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
(MRPC) and Civil Engineer David E. Ross.  Both parties are onboard for the parking project at the Eagle House.  They 
applying for a Community Development Block grant. 
 
Tax Work Off:  The Lunenburg Property Tax Work Off program is going very well.  One participant has been placed at 
the Eagle House meal site and applications are still being accepted. 
 
Furloughs:  Doreen and Sue Doherty have begun the process of voluntary furlough.  A discussion ensued amongst the 
COA board members about furloughs.  Pete Lincoln and Mary Lynn Conrad commended Doreen and Sue on offering to 
voluntarily furlough to help the towns cause.   
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
New Business:    
 
Changes to Nutrition Program:   Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
Softball Fundraiser:   Doreen is organizing a softball fundraiser to ben efit the Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  The 
Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions’ Club & the Worcester County Sheriffs Department will also be involved. 
 
Volunteer Appreciation:   April 18-24 is Volunteer Appreciation week.  Dore en is in the process of planning some sort of 
celebration for the Eagle House volunteers and aske d the COA board members if they could contribute by  supplying 
baked goods if needed. 
 
Committee Reports: 
  No committee reports this month. 
 
Correspondence: 
   
 
A note sent to Doreen from Jeremiah Greene was read  informing her that he will be absent from particip ating in events at 
the Eagle House due to upcoming surgery. 
 
A flyer from the Highlands was read announcing that they will now be offering Adult Night Health Care. 
 
General Discussion: 
  Doreen informed the board that the Supper Club is  going great and that Adam Bergeron, classical 
pianist will be here to perform on April 5 th . 
 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, and the motion was carried.   
The meeting ended at 10:52 a.m. 
 
    
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Dohert Susan Dohert Susan Dohert Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant y, Administrative Assistant y, Administrative Assistant y, Administrative Assistant    
 