===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes Minutes Approved at the 5/17/10 COA Meeting
April 13, 2010
Welcome: Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.
Present: Pete Litacoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad(Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Jane Doyle,
Sandra Flannagan, Joyce Wass, Sis Moutuori, Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, and Sue Doherty (Administrative Assistant)
Excused: Bonnie Edes
Guest: Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Fagle House Inc.
Minutes: A motion was made and seconded to accept the March 9, 2010 COA meeting minutes as amended.
All approved, motion carried.
Director's Report:
Finance/Informational Report: Doreen Noble told the COA board that Heather Brendel's internship will be ending in the
second week of May. A tea will be held in Heather's honor on May 7" at 10AM. Doreen has completed an evaluation on
Heather's performance at the Eagle Flouse and has given her an A for her work here. She also stated that she wished that
Heather could be hired at the Eagle House but due to fiscal restraints this would not be possible and that another agency
will be benefiting from her experience here with us.
A COA vendor budget sheet was prepared by Sue Doherty and distributed to members to review.
Doreen, with the help of Heather, had prepared a power point budget presentation for the town's Finance Committee and
she showed it to the Council on Aging at this meeting. This presentation included Council on Aging goals aud projections
At the number of people in the town of Lonenburg who will be turning 60 years and older.
Jane Doyle asked if this was the budget presentation which the COA Finance sub committee normally meets with the
Director on, which didn't happen this year. Doreen explained to the board that the budget was done slightly backwards
this year and that the Town Manager had prepared the COA budget for her. She reminded the board that at the last
mecting she asked that the COA board members not to approach the Town Manager with questions about the budget, but
to refer all questions to her, which they agreed to.
Also shown was a video produced by Lunenburg High School students which was shot at the Eagle House during
Christinas vacation that focused on the parking lot situation.
Old Business:
Parking Lot: Doreen roported that the parking lot project is in a "holding patter" right now while waiting on a vote at
the May 1" town meeting.
Jim Hays requested that more handicap parking become available in front of the Eagle Housc.
Tax Work Off: The Seniot Citizen Property Tax Work Off program is going very well. They have 16 participants placed
in different town departments. One participant had dropped out but has been replaced with a new one. There is also one
participant who has gotten a job outside of the program which has made it hard to get a hold of him to see if he will be
finishing up his assignment.
Furloughs: Furloughs have begun in the town and all departments with the exception of the Police, Fire, Library and
Schools participating. The part time employees at the Eagle House were told that they did not have to furlough due to the
fact that the financial impact would not be significant and that the Director and the Administrative Assistant volunteered
to furlough.
\tYII Budget: Discussed under Director's Report.
===PAGE 2===
Softhall Fundraiser: Doreen has been in contact with the Lunenburg Police Chief and the Worcester County Sheriff's
Department about participating in a softball fundraiser which will benefit the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. As of this
meeting the dates being discussed for this event are June 10, 2010 or June 17, 2010 at the Lunenburg High School
baseball practice field.
Volunteer Appreciation: Sue Doherty asked the COA members to each take a day to bring in goodies for the Eagle
House volunteers during volunteer appreciation week which is April 18-24. They all agreed and chose their days.
New Business:
Parking Lot Donation: Doreen reported that the Lunenburg American Legion donated $1000 to the Friends of the Eagle
House Inc, to go towards the parking lot fund. The Johnny Appleseed Barbershop Quartet will also be coming in on April
22" to sing and to give a $1000 donation towards the parking lot fund.
Town Report: Doreen has completed the Town Report and has sent it to Laura Williams at the Selectmen's office. The
Town Report will be available to the public at the May 1, 2010 town meeting.
Impact of New Construction on COA Budget: There will be three new housing developments coming to Lunenburg
which will include 55 and older occupants. It is assumed that services such as transportation and outreach will increase
dramatically at the Eagle House Senior Center.
A discussion also ensued about the ongoing renovations at Pearl Brook Housing on White Street. Residents are being
asked to remove everything it their apartments and move out while work is being done to their individual units. Some of
the elder residents are having a problem with this considering the fact that they are frail and have no family members to
help with the moving.
Those that do have family members, the family members are not bappy with the work which is being done.
Committee Reports:
All board members were reminded that all COA sub comittees must have end of year roports prepared for the COA Tune
Annual Meeting.
They were also reminded to prepare a slate of officers for text year to be presented at the May COA meeting. They will
be voted it at the Annual COA meeting in Tune.
The Advocacy and Board Development committees will meet before the May 11, 2010 COA meeting and the
Administrative Assistant will have the dates and times posted with the Town Clerk.
Correspondence: A letter from former COA board merber Gloria O'Brien was received and read to the members.
The Montachusett Home Care Quarterly report was distributed to members for review.
General Discussion:
Adjourament: A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting. All approved, and the motion was carried.
The meeting ended at 11:16 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant
