===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes           Minutes Approved at the 2/8/11 COA Meeting     
January 11, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson),  
Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass, Barbara Brown, Sandy Flanagan, Sis Montuori, Jim Hays,  
Deb Seeley and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Fred Crellin 
 
Guests:
  John Male & Jim Halloran 
    Lunenburg High School Principal Mike Barney (Sc heduled for later in meeting) 
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.  
Pete welcomed John Male and Jim Halloran to the meeting.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the December 14, 2010 COA meeting  
minutes as amended.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  
A verbal monthly budget report was given by the Dir ector.  Funds needed to be transferred from the ele ctric line 
to the water line in order to cover the water bill for the 3 
rd  quarter.  All other monthly expenses are on target. 
 
Doreen reported that she had spoken with Jim Breaul t, Facilities Manager, about the unfinished roof re pairs and 
he assured her that the temporary repairs will hold until the roofing company is able to get back to finish the job. 
 
The senior center uses Voice Systems as its telepho ne network.  There were problems with the service d uring last 
summer/fall which the Friends of the Eagle House Inc paid to have fixed. 
An Office Equipment/Repair line will be added into the budget for next year.   
 
The Director has decided that she will not be getti ng an intern this semester from Fitchburg State due  to time 
restraints. 
 
The pancake breakfast which was scheduled for 1/12/11 has been cancelled by Lion’s member  
Dave  Berthiaume, due to a pending snow storm.   
A discussion ensued about last summers grill reques t.  Barbara Brown informed the board that at the De cember 
Lions Club meeting a procedure was put in place sta ting that there would be no free gas grill loans to  any 
organizations.  She also said that Dave Clements sa id at the meeting that the charcoal grill was offer ed to the 
senior center for free.  Sue Doherty, who was in co ntact with Dave Berthiaume about the grill request,  stated that 
she was unaware of any offer of that nature. 
COA Board member Jim Hays asked to move this discussion. 
 
Doreen has withdrawn her name from the Director’s p osition at the Pepperell COA.  Town Manager Kerry 
Speidel has offered her a salary increase, competit ive with what Pepperell had offered her, if she sta ys in 
Lunenburg to which Doreen agreed.  The increase wil l take effect as of July 1, 2011. The COA board 
congratulated her on the salary increase. 
 
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off:   New applications for the property tax work-off pr ogram have been developed 
and applicants have been picking them up at the Eagle House office.  They hope to fill 14-16 positions this year. 
A question about liability for volunteers was raise d.  There is a “Volunteer Service Agreement” which is on file at the 
Eagle House that includes a section on liability.  A copy will be brought to the February meeting. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Old Business:  
 
Parking Lot/CDBG Grant:  Shelly Hatch from MRPC had delivered the completed grant to the Eagle House the week 
prior to this meeting.  Shelly stated that she feared  bonus points may have been lost in the process due to the fact that she 
had not received all of the information needed from Lunenburg officials at town hall.  She had also suggested that Senator 
Jen Flannagan and State Rep. Jen Benson be contacted about supporting this project by speaking to HUD directly at the 
end of February.  The Grant announcement will be made sometime in April 2011. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Mike Barney Ace/Achieve Program:   Lunenburg High School Principal Mike Barney was in attendance to discuss a 
Memorandum of Understanding in regards to the ACE/ACHIEVE students from the High School concerning 
communication and health/safety guidelines while they are volunteering at the Eagle House Senior Center.  He has 
researched the Center of Disease Control for ideas and would like to arrange a meeting with a COA board member to 
develop the Memorandum of Understanding.  In the mean time, the ACE/ACHIEVE program will not continue at the 
Eagle House until this process is completed and signed by Mike Barney and Doreen Noble. 
 
Committee Reports: 
  The COA Finance Committee had met at 9AM before t he COA meeting and will reconvene after 
this meeting has ended. 
Pete Lincoln reminded all sub-committees that they need to begin dealing with end of year committee re ports.  He also 
reminded the Board Development committee that they should  be actively looking for a new COA board member. 
 
Correspondence: 
  Pete Lincoln read a letter which was sent to the Town Manager written by COA board member Jim 
Hays concerning the town furloughs which were taken last spring. 
 
General Discussion: 
  Jim Halloran, who is a member of the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. was present and was 
concerned about the fact that a new Chairperson for the Friends group has not been selected yet.  Doreen said that she 
would like to give the Friends group guidance in this matter.  Jim Hays and Jim Halloran told her that they did not want 
her to serve as a consultant. 
 
Discussion was held on what the procedure would be, should it snow and the building was closed on COA meeting day. 
A motion was made and seconded that if the building is closed due to a snow day, on a scheduled COA meeting day, the 
meeting will then take place at the same time, on the following Tuesday. 
All approved, motion carried. 
 
Both Debra Seeley and Mary Lynn Conrad will not be in attendance at the February COA meeting. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.    
 
Meeting adjourned at  10:55AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  