===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 1/10/12 COA Meeting 
December 13, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chair), Jane Doyle, Jim Hays,  
Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Doreen Noble (Director), Sandy Flanagan, Barbara Brown, and Fred Crellin. 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson and John Male  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the November 8, 2011 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  There was no Director’s report at this meeting.  
 
A discussion ensued regarding communication between the Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Doreen Noble and  
Town Manager Kerry Speidel, concerning the janitorial and Eagle House septic mound removal issues.   
Sue Doherty relayed a message from Doreen to the bo ard that she had not heard back from the Town Manag er about 
either of these issues.  She said that Doreen had met with Capitol Planning the previous month and that they were in favor 
of connecting the upper parking lot to the Eagle House parking lot.  
Pete said that he had spoken to Doreen and had told  her that in his communication with the Town Manage r, Kerry had 
told him that the DPW would be advertising for a pa rt time janitorial position. She also said that she  had not heard back 
from the Board of Health concerning the mound but that it would be all right to send out for bids for its removal. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:   The Friends of the Eagle House have received two bids for the removal of the septic mound.  They voted to 
award the job to Dan Proctor and he would like to start the removal process while the weather is still good.  Lloyd Carlson 
stated that the Friends of the Eagle House Inc would be meeting on December 14 
th  to discuss the funding of the mound 
removal. 
 
Janitor for Eagle House:  Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Public Access Eagle House Announcements:   The COA board members were concerned with the  
Eagle House announcements that Doreen tapes monthly for the local cable television station saying that they  
were showing outdated announcements and it makes the COA look bad.  Doreen will be asked to contact the people at the 
cable station about filming new footage which will not be so “date sensitive”. 
 
Director’s Evaluation:   The COA board discussed the issue of how to proceed with the Director’s evaluation. 
A motion was made and seconded to follow the proces s of the Director Evaluation which is in the Counci l on Aging 
Bylaws. 
All approved, motion carried. 
The COA board spoke about perhaps going into Executive Session to discuss this issue after the January 10, 2012  
COA meeting. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
COA board member Joyce Wass reported that the Board Development Committee had met before this meeting and at this 
meeting Sandy Flanagan gave her resignation as a COA board member.  They are actively looking for new people to fill 
vacant spots on the COA board, which they will then recommend appointment to the Board of Selectmen. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The COA Finance Committee has not set a meeting date yet.  They are still awaiting budget information from the Town 
Manager. 
 
 
The COA Advocacy Committee also met before this mee ting where they discussed looking into a new tax ra te for 
Lunenburg citizens over 70 years of age who have lived in the town for 50 years or more. 
 
Correspondence: 
   No correspondence was read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Sue Doherty reported that the new computerized sign  in system is a work in progress and so far things were going well 
with the seniors and their transition to swiping a sign in card for each event. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 10:30AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  