===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at 10/11/11 COA Meeting  
September 13, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Sandy Flanagan,  
Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Deb Seeley, Barbara Brown 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the August 16, 2011 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  There was no Finance/Information Report for this month. 
 
Doreen updated the COA board on the office water da mage.  All the painting is completed and the carpet  has been 
replaced.  The large cabinet in the janitor’s close t, which was damaged by the water leak, was taken f or repair by the 
contractors.  Doreen will follow up on when it will be returned. 
 
Simplex Grindell has been in the Eagle House to loo k at the leaks in the sprinkler system and to give estimates on the 
repairs to the system.  Jim Breault, Facilities Manager, is handling this project and is very diligent in checking the  
Eagle House every time there is a threat of the pow er going out during storms.  The general consensus is that a generator 
is needed at the Eagle House to thwart any power ou tage which makes the sprinkler system shut down. Ke rri Speidel, 
Town Manager, is aware of this problem along with the painting and repairs that need to be completed in the foyer. 
 
Doreen is very concerned about the cut in janitoria l help at the Eagle House and said that it has take n a toll on the staff.  
The DPW has hired a new person to assist Jim Breaul t.  Doreen had sent a letter to the Kerri Speidel, Town Manager, 
requesting that the new person also be made availab le to the Eagle House for table and chair set up on  a regular basis at 
the senior center.  Kerri told Doreen that she would get back to her about this matter. 
 
The FY11 Annual Report, which is sent to the state every year, has been completed.  A copy of the STAR statistics, which 
is used for the annual report, will be available fo r COA members to review at the October COA meeting.   The Formula 
Grant has also been completed and is awaiting the Town Managers signature. 
 
Doreen and Michelle Beleeza, Teen Center Director, attended the September 6, 2011 Selectmen’s meeting to voice 
concerns during the public speaking section of the meeting, over the lack of visibility exiting Memorial Drive onto  
Main St. due to parked cars on Main St.  Doreen tol d them that a meals on wheels driver recently had a n accident at that 
spot and Michelle is concerned with the cross walk not being clearly marked for pedestrians.  This issue will be put on the 
Selectmen’s agenda for further discussion at a later date. 
 
COA van driver will be out for six weeks due to a m edical problem.  Doreen is in the process of trying  to borrow another 
driver from Groton COA to fill in. 
 
Doreen will be attending the MCOA Conference in Sturbridge MA from October 4th through the 7 
th .  She will be bringing 
three members of her Self-Defense Class (Nana Ninjas) on the 2 nd  day of the conference, to spend the night, and the y will 
be demonstrating their newly learned skills at the conference.  Lunenburg Police Officer Mike Luth, who has been helping 
Doreen with this class, will also be attending the demonstration.   
Lunenburg Police Chief Dan Bourgeois has nominated Doreen for the self-defense class as Innovator of t he Year and 
Faith Anderson, Outreach Coordinator has nominated Doreen in the same category for the cable T.V. upda tes she is in for 
the senior center. 
 
Capitol Planning requests for all town departments are due at the end of September and Doreen will put  in requests for 
computers, printers and a lap top.    
 
===PAGE 2===
 Old Business:  
 
Parking Lot:   Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc., suggested to the COA board that while they are 
waiting to find another solution for building the new parking lot, they should begin looking into putting a staircase in the 
existing upper parking lot that would lead down to the Eagle House.  He has been researching this type of staircase and 
said that the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. could purchase a metal one for approximately $3000. 
Pete Lincoln read an email that he had written to the Town Manager about his concerns with the parking lot issue.  
A discussion ensued about the urgency of getting a stair case constructed before winter and it was suggested that to avoid 
the loop holes of following Town procedure, they should they go ahead and start  building one.  Doreen spoke up and said 
that it was her responsibility as a town employee to caution the board about the possible liabilities of proceeding in this 
fashion. 
An official request for mound removal, paving and fencing for a new parking lot, along with a stairway to the upper lot, 
will be included in the FY13 capitol plan. 
 
New Van Update:   Doreen received a letter from MART dated 8/17/11 informing her that the new van is in and they are 
performing last minute inspections etc. The letter also stated that MART was hoping to get the van to the COA by the end 
of August.  As of this meeting she still had not heard back from them. 
 
Volunteer Appreciation Day:  Due to the water heater issues and the bathroom shut downs it was decided to change the 
date of the Volunteer Appreciation Day to Tuesday September 27, 2011.    
 
New Business: 
  There was no new business on the agenda for this meeting. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
  The board decided to stay with the same sub-committee assignments as in FY11. 
 
Correspondence: 
  There was no correspondence to be read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Doreen informed the board that long time volunteer and former COA member Mario Patacchiola was in the hospital after 
suffering a stroke.   
She also said that former COA board member Edith Gay was now living in an assisted living facility. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 10:20AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  