===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes     Minutes Approved at the April 12, 2011 COA Meeting 
March  8, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brow n, 
Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Sandy Flanagan, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass,  
and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc. 
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the February 8, 2010 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  Doreen informed the COA board that all monthly e xpenses are being paid on time and 
that the mileage payments for the Meals on Wheels drivers are up to date. 
 
Dr. Julia Byers, a Professor from Leslie College ha d requested with Doreen doing an “Ambassador to Imm igrants” 
program with the senior citizens at the Eagle House which would involve matching them up with new immigrants to show 
them how the American culture works along with the social mores of our society.  Doreen told her that she did not think 
that the program would be appropriate with our peop le at the Lunenburg Senior Center considering that many of the 
immigrants are in the Boston area and have no trans portation.  It would also be difficult for our seni ors to drive to Boston 
to participate.  Dr. Byers also suggested a Positiv e Aging/Mental Health program which would involve u sing Skype on 
the computer.  This will be looked into again. 
 
Lunenburg Public Access Television will be filming a monthly “Eagle House Calendar” with Doreen which will be aired 
on the local public access station.  They have alre ady filmed the Boston Post Cane presentation which currently can be 
seen on the computer on You Tube.  Pete Lincoln sug gested looking into purchasing full size Boston Pos t Cane replicas 
which can be given to recipients along with the stick pin replica which they currently receive. 
Other ideas are being developed with them such as a  “Whalom Park Memories” program and hopefully a “Ve teran’s” 
program. 
 
Budget Presentation:   Copies of the FY12 Council on Aging budget were d istributed to COA members for review.  This 
is the same budget that was previously presented to  the Town Manager. Doreen went through each page wi th the board 
and told them that the Town Manager has suggested a t 12.74 % increase in the COA budget.  The budget w ill need to be 
finalized by voters at the Lunenburg May Town meeting.  The board congratulated Doreen on a job well done. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  Doreen has contacted MRPC and spoke with Glen Eaton who is now the person in charge of the Eagle 
House parking lot grant.  He informed her that the grant is still under review and that announcements should be made in 
April but could come as late as May.  He suggested that now is the time to contact legislators and ask for support of this 
grant.   
Lloyd Carlson, President of the Friends of the Eagle House Inc, was present and asked if the “Friends”  would need to 
contribute anymore funds towards this project besides the $15,000 which they have already contributed.  He was told that 
if the Friends could continue to fund the project for “unexpected” expenses that it would be very bene ficial. 
 
Conflict of Interest Law:  All board members were reminded that they need to complete the  “Conflict of Interest Law” 
test online. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
New Business: 
   
 
Friends of the Eagle House:   Lloyd Carlson has returned as President of the Friends of the Eagle House Inc and informed 
the board that there would be a meeting of the group on Wednesday March 9, 2011 at the Eagle House at 10AM. 
 
Article for Van Revolving Account:   Doreen had written a grant to hopefully procure a new van for the senior center and 
town of Lunenburg.  If this becomes a reality then an account will need to be set up with the town in order to fund the 
vehicle for maintenance, fuel, etc.  This account would be different then the MART revolving account which already 
exists. 
A motion was made and seconded to establish a revolving account to support a new van with funds not to exceed 
$3500.00.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
There was a brief discussion about the COA Director’s Evaluation.  It was agreed that the Director’s E valuation should be 
based upon the new job description which has not been made available yet as the Personnel Committee is still working on 
them. 
 
The COA ByLaw Committee will meet at 9AM on April 12, 2011 at the Eagle House. 
 
Pete Lincoln asked the COA Board Development committee to prepare a slate of officers for FY12 to be reviewed. 
 
Correspondence: 
  An announcement for a “Texas Hold Em” tournament and BBQ Buffet to benefit the  
Chester Mossman Teen Center was read. 
 
General Discussion: 
   Doreen invited board members to stay for the Fat Tuesday lunch and said that the staff members 
had prepared some Cajun food for sampling. 
 
Deb Seeley informed the board that she is now officially an elder and that she had recently turned “60 ” years of age. 
 
Doreen reminded everyone that the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lion’s Club will be holding a pancake breakfast at the 
Eagle House on Wednesday March 9, 2011 from 8-11AM. 
 
Mary Lynn Conrad informed the board that “Conrads R estaurant” had purchased a large gas grill for the business last 
season which they will not be using this year and they would like to donate it to the senior center. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.    
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:55AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  