===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 5/10/11 COA Meeting 
April 12, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara 
Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Sandy Flanagan, Jim Hays,  Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Sis Montuori and Deb Seeley 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle Hou se Inc. and John Male, Lunenburg Finance 
Committee  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.  
Pete welcomed Lloyd and John to the meeting and als o wished Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass and Fred Crellin Ha ppy 
Birthday.  He also informed the board that he had n o luck finding a cane which would be a full size re plica of 
the Boston Post Cane, to give to recipients.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the March 8, 2010 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  Doreen informed the board that a date for the CO A Volunteer Recognition 
Ceremony/BBQ would need to be set soon. 
 
Doreen had the results of the past three quarters o f the FY11  STAR report (COA statistical tracking r eport) and 
shared them with the board.  She had compared the r esults with the unduplicated counts from previous y ears 
and they are as follows: FY09-1003,  FY10-1140, and  for just the first three quarters of FY11-1638 whi ch 
shows quite an increase in senior center participation. 
 
A memo was sent to Doreen from MOC Nutrition which stated that due to financial cutbacks in Title 3 mo nies, 
there will be a new protocol regarding the meals on  wheels program.  They are now going to “Managed In take” 
which will be controlled by Montachusett Home Care.   Montachusett Home Care will be the agency to 
prioritize who will be receiving meals on wheels, w hich will be determined by the degree of the client ’s 
illness/needs.  If a client is not at home at the t ime of delivery, for what ever reason, they will no t be considered 
a high priority and will be removed from the program.   
Doreen stated that she “thought we were here to ser ve the community, not to make it difficult for seni ors” and 
would like to begin exploring the possibility of us ing Formula Grant monies to start a “Box Lunch” pro gram, 
which would be in addition to the MOC Nutrition pro gram.  This would consist of soup and a sandwich wh ich 
would be delivered to clients who are cut from the MOW program or are in need of them and do not quali fy for 
the MOW program under the new Managed Intake criteria, at a nominal fee. 
 
The Lunenburg Public School system is doing a day o f community service and food drive for the town cal led 
Project 582.  Loxi Jo Calmes, School Superintendent , sent a memo to town departments asking for job re quests 
for the students to perform.  She also thought that  senior citizens could benefit from this project.  Doreen 
contacted a few senior citizens who may like some y ard work done and sent a request for grounds clean up at 
the Eagle House Senior Center. 
 
May is “Senior Citizen Month” and the Executive Off ice of Elder Affairs has a “proclamation” available  for 
Town/Government officials if they would like to present it to their senior centers. 
 
===PAGE 2===
MART (Montachusett Area Regional Transit) sent a Me mo to Doreen stating that the grant application for  the 
new van had been approved and we should expect its arrival sometime in late May or early June.  MART i s still 
working on the details and will be contacting us later with an official notification. 
 
The monthly COA budget report was distributed to CO A members for review.  A mistake was made in the 
utilities column for the month of March which will be corrected by Sue Doherty for next months meeting.   
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Article for Van Revolving Account: (Taken out of Order ):  Doreen explained that the Town Manager thought it 
would be wise to ask for $5000.00 for this account after the amount of $3500.00 was voted on at the March 
COA meeting. 
A motion was made and seconded to amend the motion which was made in March concerning the van revolving 
account to read “to establish a revolving account t o support a new van with funds not to exceed $5000.00”  All 
approved motion carried. 
 
Parking Lot:  Doreen spoke to Steven Flynn from MRPC (Montachusett Regional Planning Commission), who 
is now in charge of the parking lot grant, and he told her that all grants have been scored and are now waiting 
for approval.  They must wait for the Federal Budget to be approved before any announcements can be made. 
 
State Ethics Test:   COA board members have begun taking and completing the required “State Ethics Test”.  
Proof of completion pages are being sent to the Town Clerk and the COA will be keeping a copy in the office 
files. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Town Meeting Saturday May 7, 2011 – 9AM  Doreen announced the Town Meeting date and time to COA 
board members and told them that the COA FY12 budge t and the article for the new van revolving account  will 
be voted on at this time. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
A motion was made and seconded to accept the March 8, 2011 minutes of the COA Board Development 
subcommittee as presented.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
A motion was made and seconded to accept the April 12, 2011 minutes of the COA Bylaw subcommittee as 
presented.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
A request was made to include COA Bylaw changes on the COA May agenda. 
 
Pete Lincoln asked the COA Board Development commit tee to prepare a slate of officers for FY12 to be 
reviewed.   A discussion was held concerning the CO A Treasurer and Clerk being included in the slate o f 
officers.  It does not seem to be included in the COA Bylaws saying that they need to be voted on along with the 
President and Vice President at the Annual COA Meeting in June. 
 
COA Advocacy Committee minutes acceptance was tabled until the May meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Correspondence:    
 
A letter from the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors reques ting the use of the Eagle House Senior Center in Oc tober 
for their Annual Fall Fair was read. 
A motion was made and seconded to allow the use of the Eagle House Senior Center to the Lunenburg Frie ndly 
Seniors for their Fall fair.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
A notice about the Nashoba Network meeting being held at River Court in Gorton on April 19, 2011 was read. 
 
Doreen mentioned that the Friends of the Clinton Se nior Center sent an invitation to a seminar they ar e holding 
called “Earn and Learn” was received.  Doreen decli ned the invitation because it cost $30.00 to attend.   
 
Martha Campbell, Director of the Groton Senior Cent er forwarded an email to Doreen concerning a progra m 
request from Barbara Rich.  She would like to start  an outreach program which would involve helping is olated 
gay and lesbian people. 
 
A job opening at the DPW which was sent by Highway Superintendent Jack Rodriquenz was read. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Doreen gave kudos to Eagle House Outreach Coordinat or Faith Anderson for her successful work on all of  the 
“Baby Boomers” events. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.    
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:39AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  