===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 9/13/11 COA Meeting  
August 16, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),  
Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Sandy Flanagan Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass,  
and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Jim Hays 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:36 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the June 14, 2011 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  There was no Finance/Information Report for this month. 
 
Doreen apologized for the delay in the start of thi s meeting.  She explained that the hot water heater  which is located in 
the upstairs utility room had broken in July and fl ooded the offices, bathrooms, and janitor’s closet.   Work has begun on 
repairing the walls and carpets in these areas and due to this fact activities and office personnel ha ve to be juggled around 
which makes it confusing at times.   
All programs with 10 or more participants have been cancelled until the work is complete due to the fact that there is only 
1 bathroom available to the public to use. 
The completion of the Executive Office of Elder Aff airs annual report and formula grant has also been delayed due to the 
water heater upheaval. 
 
There have been questions about the new hours of op eration for the Eagle House senior center, whether they are just for 
summer or will they be permanent.  Doreen explained  that this is a permanent change and that they were  put in place for 
the “younger’ senior citizen who perhaps is still w orking and may need assistance later in the day. 
 
During the heat wave in July the Eagle House was de signated as a “cooling station” for the town for tw o days.  The first 
day, which was a Thursday, there were no calls from  the public for assistance, although the center rem ained open until 
7PM.  The next day the Director had a sick day and told the staff that if there were no calls for assi stance, then close the 
center at the normal hour of 12:30PM, and that she would be on call with the Lunenburg Fire Dept dispatcher. 
A sixty-one year old woman called 911 at around 1PM  and said she needed assistance.  Doreen arrived to  find the person 
at the center.  The person did not seem extremely distressed and was more interested in what kind of “ senior services” she 
could receive.  The person stayed until 5:40PM. 
Doreen has decided to develop “guidelines” for stay ing open later for these types of situations.   She  feels that there needs 
to be a “real” concern about the health of an indiv idual in order to justify using the center for a cooling station.   
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  The Block Grant for the Eagle House parking lot/housing rehab in Lunenburg was denied by the 
Department of Housing and Community Development.  All concerned parties who have been involved with this project 
have been notified. 
The Council on Aging members strongly wish to continue pursuing this project and will look into developing different 
avenues to help this come to completion. 
There is an immediate concern with the parking situation as it stands.  School will be open soon and the students, who do 
not want to pay for parking at the school, tend to take up all of the spots in the municipal lot above the senior center.  The 
idea of using Friends of the Eagle House parking funds to build two stair cases with railings at the upper municipal lot, 
which would lead down to the Eagle House, were discussed.  If this were to happen, the town would be approached to 
place signage with parking restrictions in that lot, and the existing spots at the Eagle House lot would then become 
handicapped only. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
New Van Update:   Doreen received a letter from MART stating that the new van has arrived and as soon as paperwork is 
completed it will be ready for delivery to us.   
The title for the old van will be turned over to the Town of Lunenburg and will be operated under the auspices of the 
Council on Aging.  COA board member Jane Doyle suggests that all agreements with MART concerning the two vans 
should be received in writing and kept on file at the Eagle House. 
 
Volunteer Appreciation Day:  Due to the water heater issues and the bathroom shut downs it was decided to change the 
date of the Volunteer Appreciation Day to Tuesday September 27, 2011.   Mary Lynn Conrad was thanked for the grill 
which Conrad’s Restaurant had donated to the Eagle House Senior Center. 
 
Reminder New Hours for Eagle House:   Discussed under Director’s Report. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
RMV Reminder Service:   Jane Doyle reported that the Registry of Motor Vehicles has partnered with a private agency to 
reinstate the RMV reminder service which informs people when their auto registration or license renewal is due.  This 
service can only be initiated “online” and she woul d like to get the word out to the “senior” populati on.  Sue Doherty will 
advertise this in the COA September newsletter, which is mailed to every household in Lunenburg which has a person 
sixty years of age or older living there. 
 
My Senior Center Software:   Doreen reported that the Eagle House Senior Center will be purchasing “My Senior Center” 
software.  The computerized system will allow visitors to the senior center to sign in using a simple swipe card which is 
kept on their keychain.  The system will take the place of the “STAR” system which is used to track st atistics for the state.  
Doreen will be using formula grant funds to purchase the equipment, which is allowed by the Executive Office of Elder 
Affairs. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
  There were no Sub Committee reports for this meeting. 
 
Correspondence: 
  There was no correspondence to be read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Doreen informed the board that Liturgical Press cal led and requested use of the Eagle House to do phon e solicitations to 
area businesses to advertise in the Council on Agin g newsletter.  She refused this request but told th em that they could 
stop in while they are working in the area, for coffee, lunch etc. 
 
Olive Coburn came into the meeting with a gift of an electric paper shredder which she donated to the senior center. 
 
Mary Lynn Conrad said that she met with former COA board member, Gloria O’Brien and that she is doing well. 
 
Pete Lincoln asked the board to continue the search  for a new COA board member to fill the eleventh sp ot.  He also 
requested to Doreen that she contact the local cabl e access station and ask them to update the senior center information 
which is taped once a month. 
 
Doreen was asked when the intern from Fitchburg Uni versity would be arriving.  Doreen informed the mem bers that she 
will not be getting an intern this year due to time restraints in her schedule. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 11:10AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  