===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at 12/13/11 COA Meeting 
November 8, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chair), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown,  
Jane Doyle, Sandy Flanagan, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Deb Seeley & Fred Crellin 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:45 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the October 11, 2011 COA meeting  
minutes as corrected.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :   
 
     The monthly financial report was not distribut ed to board members for review but Doreen reported that everything is 
current as we are headed into the second quarter. 
 
     A report was given by Doreen on the status of the shelter which was opened at the Turkey Hill Mid dle School during 
the October power outage.     
     Fire Chief Scott Glenny and his wife Sue normally set up the shelter but were out of town during the incident.  Doreen 
was called in to act as the Administrator of the sh elter until their return.  Eagle House Outreach Coo rdinator Faith 
Anderson also worked at the shelter taking care of personal needs of shelter clients along with other volunteers and 
emergency personnel from the police and fire depart ments.  There were approximately 53-70 people who u tilized the 
shelter and over 50% of them were elderly.   
     After the last ice storm in 2009, “Emergency P reparedness” sheets were given to elders to fill ou t incase of another 
disaster. These sheets compile emergency phone numb ers along with vital information on Lunenburg elder s, so they can 
be given “well being” phone calls.  This system did  not work well this time due to the fact that phone lines were down and 
many people did not record their cell phone numbers on the emergency preparedness sheets. 
     There were many different issues to deal with this time at the shelter concerning physical and me ntal health concerns.  
Doreen would like the town to consider installing a generator and perhaps a shower stall in the Eagle House Senior Center 
so that it could be used as an emergency shelter for elders if an event such as the October storm should arise again. 
 
     Some of the water damage in the foyer and hall ways at the Eagle House has been repaired but not f inished due to the 
fact that the contractor is no longer working for the town. 
 
     The Senior Citizen Property Tax Work Off participants are finishing up their hours for the year and the committee will 
be meeting next week to discuss next years program. 
 
     Next fiscal years budget packets have not been  released from the Town Manager yet.  Doreen commen ted in saying 
that the five year budget forecast looks promising for the Council on Aging. 
 
 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:   Lloyd Carlson has contacted the company that sells the stairs and said that they need a permit from the 
Lunenburg Building Inspector to continue with the stairway project to connect the upper parking lot to the lower parking 
lot at the Eagle House Senior Center.   
A discussion ensued about the stairway installation and removal of the mound behind the senior center.  Pete Lincoln 
commented that he was not in favor of the stair installation.  He said that the parking lot project has been in the works for 
seven years and wants to stick with the original plan of the mound removal and pursing the parking lot construction.  Pete 
will contact the Town Manager again about testing the soil in the mound for removal and pursue having it done by local 
contractors at minimal cost. 
===PAGE 2===
 
New Van Update:   The new 8 passenger van has arrived at the Eagle House Senior Center.  There were some small issues 
with the lift operation on the van but have since been resolved.  The van was used to transport people to and from the 
emergency shelter in October. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Janitor for Eagle House Senior Center:   The Lunenburg Senior Citizen Property Tax Work Of f person who was helping 
out with janitorial duties at the Eagle House has completed his hours for the year.  Doreen asked for the Council on Aging 
boards support in requesting to the town that money  which is available in the Council on Aging Formula  Grant, which 
was designated for another Outreach worker, be used  for janitorial help at the senior center.  Pete Li ncoln said that when 
he contacts the Town Manager about the mound removal that he would attach the janitor request as “part  B” along with it. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
The Advocacy Sub Committee decided to meet on December 13, 2011 at 9AM at the Eagle House. 
The Board Development Sub Committee will meet on December 13, 2011 at 8:45AM at the Eagle House. 
Sue Doherty reminded both sub committees that in order to hold these meetings an agenda will need to b e posted for both 
committees. 
 
Correspondence: 
   A thank you note from Girl Scout Troop 30970 was  read.  The troop had used the Eagle House 
parking lot last summer for a car wash. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
The COA board has been waiting on new Employee Evaluation forms from the Lunenburg Personnel Board so they can 
complete the COA Director’s evaluation as accurately as possible.  Apparently the new evaluation forms have not been 
completed yet by the Personnel Committee.  The board will discuss the Director’s Evaluation at the December COA 
meeting. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 11:15AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  