===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes        
September 11, 2012  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown, Jane Doyle, Deb Seeley, 
Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson) 
 
Guest:  State Rep. Jen Benson 
  
Welcome:   Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:34AM 
 
Ms. Conrad read an excerpt from a 9/11 poem in honor of Lunenburg resident Kevin Szocik. 
 
Ms. Noble stated that on the request of Pete Lincoln, State Rep. Jen Benson had been invited to the COA 
meeting this month to discuss what is currently happening in the State Legislature and to have the COA voice 
their concerns about elder issues.  A “round table” type discussion ensued which examined topics such as 
Formula Grant funding for COA’s, Elder Nutrition Programs, Health Care, Elder Scams, and the fiscal realities 
of the day to day decisions that the Legislature need to make in order to keep programs afloat.  Board 
members contributed their thoughts on which areas they thought the government could do better in to be more 
fiscally responsible which included pension reform, welfare fraud, and the possibility of having MIIA 
(Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association) fund the SHINE(Serving Health Information Needs of Elders) 
program. 
 
The board thanked Rep. Benson for making time to come to speak at this meeting. 
 
Minutes:   Jane Doyle motioned to accept the minutes of the August 14, 2012 COA Meeting.  Jim Hays 
seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
  
Director's Report :   
 
Finance/Informational Report: Ms. Noble thanked the COA board members for participating in 2012 
Volunteer Recognition Ceremony/Cookout and said that the event was well attended.  She also thanked Sue 
Doherty for orchestrating the event. 
 
COA Van Driver Hoyt (Bill) Anderson had resigned at the end of August.  Gerry Beloin will be taking the extra 
hours until a replacement has been found.  Ms. Noble stated that she will be advertising for two “Per deim” 
drivers beginning with an “in house” advertisement then it will go public if there are no qualified applicants. 
 
Meal Site Coordinator Ruth Swiecicki will be leaving in October to live in Florida for 6 months out of the year.  
Ms. Noble will be advertising for one or two “Per deim” Coordinators in order to have back up in the kitchen.  
This ad will go “in house” first then if there are no qualified applicants it will be made public. 
 
Meal Site Coordinator Chris McCarthy will be taking the ServeSafe Certification Course online in the near 
future. 
 
D.P.W. has hired a full-time building maintenance person who works on maintenance projects in the Town 
buildings.  Ms. Noble will negotiate with the Town Manager on having his hours increased at the Eagle House 
to 10-14 hrs. per week.  The Eagle House also uses a Property Tax Work-off person two days a week to help 
with tasks at the center.  The Town will still retain an outside cleaning company to come in at night to work. 
 
Capitol Planning has approved $10K for the replacement of the kitchen refrigerator, steam table, & oven. A 
representative from Kittredge Equipment came to the center to look at the existing appliances and will be 
sending quotes for replacements.  A quote will also be given for a new salad bar. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Noble reported that a representative from AmeriRamp came to the center to look at the area between the 
upper and lower parking lots for installing a concrete ramp.  He came to the conclusion that it was not worth 
doing considering the expense of the project.  Ms. Noble said that there may be Formula Grant funding 
available for some type of stairway for that area but has not submitted it to the State yet. 
 
Farmer’s Market Coupons, which come from the elder nutrition program (MOC), were distributed to 50 “income 
eligible” Lunenburg residents this past summer.  Participants received $25 worth of coupons which could be 
used at participating Farmers Markets for fresh produce.  Eagle House Outreach Coordinator Faith Anderson 
worked diligently at making sure our elders who were eligible were notified about this program.  The Lunenburg 
program was so successful that MOC distributed another 12 coupons to Ms. Anderson for distribution. 
MOC Nutrition also had 2 “Fresh Vegetable” distribution days for Lunenburg residents on the “Brown Bag” 
program.  Ms. Noble and Gil Anderson retrieved over 50 bags of produce to be distributed to participants of 
this program. 
 
The COA monthly financial page was distributed to members for review. 
  
Old Business  
 
Recreation Area Behind Eagle House:  As of this meeting plans for the recreation area behind the Eagle 
House are to install a bocce court hopefully in the spring. 
 
Lunenburg Relief Day:  Ms. Noble stated that funds collected for the COA on Lunenburg Relief Day 
amounted to $5K.  One more check was received after the event in the amount of $100.  The goal of $12K has 
not been reached. 
 
FY13 Formula Grant: Ms. Noble reported that this year the grant is for approximately $14.5K and is used for 
Outreach Salary and Meals on Wheels mileage.  She is hoping to be able to use $4K of the grant to install 
stairs between the upper and lower parking lots.   
Ms. Noble also said that the Annual report to Executive Office of Elder Affairs has been completed.  Jane 
Doyle requested a copy of this report be given to COA board members. 
 
New Business: 
 
Sub-committee Report:    
 
Approval of FY12 Minutes – The following Sub-Commit tee minutes were submitted for approval: 
Director’s Evaluation Sub-Committee     Bylaw Sub-Committee  
1/18/12        3/8/12 
2/3/12 
2/17/12 
2/24/12 
3/2/12 
Jane Doyle motioned to approve all Sub-Committee minutes as presented.  Sis Montouri seconded.   
All approved, motion carried. 
 
COA Sub-Committee re-assignments for FY13 are as follows: 
Board Development- Pete Lincoln, Jim Hays, & Sis Montuori 
Bylaw – Barbara Brown, Joyce Wass, & Jim Hays 
Advocacy – Sis Montuori, Barbara Brown, Joyce Wass,  & Pete Lincoln 
Finance – Jane Doyle, Deb Seeley, Jim Hays, & Fred Crellin 
Directors Evaluation – Jane Doyle, Deb Seeley & Fre d Crellin  
 
Correspondence:   Sis Montouri received a note from former COA Board member Gloria O’Brien which she 
read to the board. 
 
===PAGE 3===
General Discussion:  Friends of the Eagle House Inc. have changed their name to “Supporters of the Eagle 
House Inc.”  Executive Office of Elder Affairs was contacted regarding this matter and they replied that the 
name change would not be a problem. 
 
Adjournment:  Sis Montouri motioned to adjourn the meeting.  Jane Doyle seconded. All approved, motion 
carried. 
Meeting Adjourned at 11:20 a.m. 
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              