===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved at 9/11/12 COA Meeting
Minutes
Town of Lunenburg
Councii on Aging Director's Evaluation Sub-Committee
A meeting of the Council on Aging (COA) Director's Evaluation Sub-Committee was held on Friday,
February 3, 2012 at 9:00 a.m at the Eagle House Senior Center. Present were committee members Deb
Seeley, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays and invited guest, Kerry Speidel, Town Manager. The
purpose of the meeting was to clarify the process for completing the COA Director's job evaluation and
to define who is responsible for the development of the COA Director's Job Description and Evaluation
Tool. Ms. Speidel was invited to explain the role of the COA, Personnel Board and Town Manager in
this process.
Ms. Speidel stated that all town-wide job descriptions and evaluations need to be revised and updated
and she will be focusing on Human Resource issues after the 2012 budget process is complete. Ms.
Speidel explained that the COA Director reports directly to the Town Manager who is responsible for
the final preparation of the Job Description and Evaluation tools, however, it would very helpful to her
to get input from the COA and to work with the COA in a collaborative way in preparing the tools to be
used as well as the evaluation itself. She felt that the process used by the COA should be compatible
with what the Town Manager will be using in the future, but in the absence of updated tools, she
suggested that the COA review and update their current COA Director Job Description and Evaluation
Tools, complete an evaluation of the COA Director and pass along this information to Ms. Speidel.
Once Ms. Speidel has completed the town-wide updates of job descriptions and developed a standard
evaluation tool, the COA can adopt these tools going forward.
Comments on the job description were that the document be general but measurable. Comments on the
evaluation tool were that room for comments be included after each evaluation element. The COA
should also include annual goals in the evaluation to be part of the next year's evaluation of
performance.
The next steps in the process were summarized as:
1. COA Director's Evaluation Sub-Committee to revise and update the current COA Job Description
and Evaluation Tool
2. COA Director's Evaluation Sub-Committee to present draft documents to the COA
3. COA approves a final version of each document and prepares an evaluation of the COA Director in
an open session of the COA
4. COA updates by-laws to reflect the change in process
5. Complete process by the end of May
Ms. Speidel explained the laws regarding Executive Session to the sub-committee. Executive Sessions
cannot be held by the COA for the purpose of the COA Director's Evaluation because the COA does not
have a formal role in the hiring/firing/discipline of the COA Director. She explained the current system
used by the Board of Selectmen (BOS) in the preparation of the Town Manager's review as a suggested
process to be used by the COA. All members of the BOS prepare a written copy of the evaluation form
and turn it into the BOS Chair, the Chair summarizes the evaluations and presents a composite at a
public meeting of the BOS. The COA will need to clarify the process to be used in preparation of the
COA Director's evaluation
===PAGE 2===
:
Jane noted that the COA Organization Chart needs to be updated to include the direct report up to the
Town Manager by the COA Director as well as adding the COA to the org chart. To be discussed at the
next COA meeting
Fred noted that in the current COA by-laws, the Director's Evaluation Sub-Committee is a Standing
Committee and should be recognized as such.
The next meeting of the Director's Evaluation Sub-Committee will be held on Friday, February 17" at
9:00 a.m at the Eagle House to discuss the member's suggested revisions to the Job Description and
Evaluation too!. The meeting adjourned at 10:15 a.m.
Chair, Director's Evaluation Sub-
