===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 4/10/12 COA Meeting 
March 13, 2012 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown,  
Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, &  Joyce Wass. 
 
Excused: 
  Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chair), & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson   
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, welcomed Lloyd and called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.    
 
Minutes: 
  Sis Montouri stated that she had mentioned the “M ature Homeowners Discount Program” at the last meet ing 
and requested that it be added to the minutes.  She  stated that this program is a discount program for  seniors on their 
homeowner’s insurance policy and that the information is available online through AAA.   
A motion was made and seconded to accept the Februa ry 14, 2012 meeting minutes as amended.  All approv ed/motion 
carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
    
 
Finance/Informational Report:   
 
No financial report was presented. 
 
Doreen reported that on February 22 there were nume rous calls received at the center from people repor ting gastric 
distress following a program held at the center.  S he notified the Town Manager, the local Board of He alth and the State 
Board of Health of the issue.  The State Board of H ealth performed tests and found no pathogens from t he food samples 
available to them.  It was suggested that possible sources of the illness could have been from food pr epared by staff or 
maybe it was the Norovirus that recently hit our ar ea.  Surveys are being conducted with attendees.  I t was determined to 
no longer conduct “Pot Luck” by Eagle House volunte ers for a period of time. 
 
Doreen stated that March 31 
st  is the final day for van applications and she will be submitting a request.  
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:   The snow fence will be fixed.  Pete said the Sher iff’s crew could clean up the debris and DPW may be  able 
to assist. 
 
Director’s Evaluation:   Deb Seeley presented two documents to the COA.  T he COA members will review these 
documents and discuss them at the April 10, 2012 meeting.  The first document was an updated “Job Desc ription” and the 
second was a “Job Evaluation” form of the Director’ s position.  The committee, consisting of Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, Jane 
Doyle, and Deb Seeley met several times to establis h a process for this procedure.  Deb reviewed the p rocess, which 
included a section of the By-Laws that stated that the COA meet in “closed session” for the evaluation .  The By-Law 
committee has already acted to remove “closed sessi on” as it is not legal.  Deb discussed the reasonin g used to develop 
the job description and evaluation forms.  The committee reviewed the job description and also established a six part form 
to be used to evaluate the Director’s position.  Th ey then placed a rating system with five categories  (Outstanding, 
Exceeds Expectations, Meets Expectations, Needs Imp rovement and Unsatisfactory) to be used as a tool.  They also 
included a section for Overall Performance Rating a nd a Comment section.  The committee included Doree n and the 
Town Manager in their discussions and asked for their input. 
 
A question and answer period followed.  Questions w ere: How can members evaluate all aspects of the jo b when we 
really don’t know everything that the job entails?  Answer:  What one person may not know, another may.   
The end result will be compilation of everyone’s ra tings in a summarized form.  Question:  Are the Tow n Manager’s 
evaluations of other departments up to date?  Answe r – No.  She welcomed this evaluation tool and the process will help 
her.  The two copies will be mailed to the absent member.  The committee was commended on the wonderful job that they 
did. 
 
Ernie Sund is still looking for a COA member to help with the Memorial Day activities. 
===PAGE 2===
 
New Business: 
   
 
FY13 COA Budget.:   Doreen presented the budget to the Fin/Com on March 8 
th .  The Town Manager requested a 10% cut 
in the budget taking into account the things that w ould make the least impact on the seniors.  Doreen presented different 
scenarios of closings and/or changing hours of oper ation of the center.  Possible hours being 8-4 four  days a week, 
returning to closing at 4PM on Tuesdays, and closing all day on Fridays would lessen the cost of heat and electricity.   Jim 
Hays was concerned that cutting hours would impact the amount of money received by the van drivers and  would like to 
have other options looked at. 
 
Pete commended Doreen on her excellent presentation of the budget to the Fin/Com. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
Advocacy:  Sis Montouri handed out a packet that li sted information about services (with addresses and  phone 
numbers) for the elderly. 
 
By-Law Committee:  Fred handed out proposed By-Law change to board members.  Members will review them 
and discuss changes at the April meeting.  Barbara explained that some previous changes were never processed or 
voted to except and that a section on the bottom of  a page was inadvertently left out and these mistak es will be 
corrected at the April meeting also. 
 
Correspondence: 
   No correspondence was read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
   None 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 11:10AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
Deb Seeley & Barbara Brown 
COA Board Members  