===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 6/12/12 COA Meeting  
May 8, 2012  
 
Present: Peter Lincoln, (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad, (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Jane Doyle, 
Jim Hays, Deb Seeley, Fred Crellin,  Joyce Wass 
 
Excused: Barbara Brown, Sis Montuori, and Sue Doherty 
 
Guests:  Lloyd Carlson, John Male 
  
Welcome:   Pete Lincoln welcomed Mr. Carlson and Mr. Male and called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m. 
 
Jane Doyle questioned clarification on the parameters of COA and Friends of the Eagle House.  Doreen said since 
this was not on the agenda, the question will be tabled until the next COA meeting.  Doreen will include it in the 
Director's Report at the June meeting.  Jane stated that all parties concerned (Friends of Eagle House-booster group, 
Friendly Seniors-social group, and COA board) should have copies of everything. Lloyd Carlson reported that Jim 
Halloran resigned and Lloyd is president again.  Pete said that there seems to be an apparent problem concerning 
our role with the friends and their role with the COA board.  
  
Minutes:  Sue Doherty was commended on the excellent job she does on the minutes.   
A motion was made and seconded to approve the minutes of the meeting of April 10, 2012.  All approved, motion 
carried. 
  
Director's Report   Doreen reported that she is still attending the Mass. Municipal Association Supervisory 
Leadership Development course and will graduate May 17.  As part of this course Doreen needs to develop an IMP 
(Individual Management Plan).  She requested our documents for her evaluation. 
  
Doreen reported that a member of the food service staff will need to take a training course.  If the over-ride doesn't 
pass there will only be money for one person to take the training.  If so Doreen will take it on June 6.  If there is 
enough money Chris McCarthy will take it in July or August.  It is preferred that one person take this training, but if 
there is no money we won't shut down the kitchen.  Jane asked if there was any way this training could be a pre-
requisite in the future.  Ruth Swiecicki is resigning on July1 and moving to Florida.    Since the staff is bare bones in 
case of illness Sue Doherty will be in charge of Meals on Wheels and Doreen will do in-house meals. 
  
Staffing is becoming a real issue at the Senior Center.  We have gained 135 new people in the last 3 
months.  Doreen stated that she should be working on the Formula Grant, but this will be delayed depending on the 
over-ride vote.  There is no penalty for being late.  Pete asked if there has been any change in the amount per 
person.  Doreen said it is fluid until the government makes the decision.  Pete asked if Jennifer Benson or Jennifer 
Flanagan had been to the Eagle House.  Doreen answered "no". 
  
Finance/Informational Report: The Financial Report was presented to the COA board. 
  
Old Business  
 
Parking Lot:  Lloyd Carlson reported that we're still waiting for Dan Proctor to clean up the backyard, now that the 
mound has been removed. 
  
Director's Evaluation :  Deb Seeley collected the evaluations from the COA members and reported that the sub-
committee will compile the results and the COA will vote on the compiled score.  She requested a meeting of this 
sub-committee on May 25.  The evaluations will be given to Doreen to enable her to devise her IMP for the 
management course. 
  
FY13 COA Budget:  The FY13 Budget is in a holding pattern.  If the over-ride passes the budget will be restored, 
Outreach and the kitchen will remain the same and the facility will remain open on Fridays.  We will add 5 additional 
hours to custodian and 1 or 2 hours to the kitchen.  The impact on 2,300 people is $14,000.  Pete stated the town 
doesn't seem to think it's important. 
 
Reminder Minutes/Agenda Emails: The members were reminded that all sub-committee reports are due to Sue by 
June 12.   Sue sends approved minutes by e-mail.  She will give COA members hard copies.  Joyce Wass requested 
a time-line for posting meetings, perhaps a board- chairman reference sheet.  Perhaps Sue Doherty could do this for 
us? 
===PAGE 2===
  
 
Slate of Officers for FY13: Jim Hays brought up term limits for board members.  He questioned remaining on the 
board in light of his term expiring.  He was told to request the waiver at the next meeting.  It was indicated that the 
waiver would be accepted, but still needs to be voted on.  
 
Joyce Wass Chairperson of the Board Development Committee presented the slate of officers for the 2012-2013 
year.  Mary Lynn Conrad-Chairman,   Peter Lincoln-Vice-chairman (mentor).  We are still trying to recruit new 
members for the COA.  Jim said he could give us a list of townspeople to give us ideas for increasing our 
membership.  
  
New Business:  Pete reminded us about the 45th Anniversary of the COA.  He compiled a list of people on board 
since 1966.  He asked us to come up with a date and plan for a celebration next fall. 
  
Sub-committee reports:    
 
A motion was made and seconded to accept the Board development sub-committee minutes of April 26, 2012.  All 
approved, motion carried. 
 
By-law Committee-  Fred Crellin presented changes discussed by the By-law Committee.  These are the results of 
the votes. 
Article IV-voted to drop      Article V voted to drop    Article VIII accepted change in wording in bold print, other part 
deleted. 
  
Doreen said that COA can change by-laws with the exception of town by-laws 
 
Correspondence:   Doreen read a letter from MCOA concerning a meeting at Holy Cross on June 6 
 
General Discussion:  Doreen reported the Student Council Prom will be May 22, at 4:00 pm 
 
Motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried. 
Meeting Adjourned at 10:48 a.m. 
Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                         
Mary Lynn Conrad, Vice Chairperson                                                                                                             
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                           