===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 2/14/12 COA  Meeting 
January 10, 2012 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chair), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown,  
Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, John Male, Judy St Arnaud, and Armand St Arnaud.  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, welcomed the guests and called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the December 14, 2011 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
   The Director, Doreen Noble introduced herself to the guests and began her report.  She informed the 
board that she met with the Cable Access representa tive, Jo McLaughlin, and filmed a generic “Eagle Ho use Updates” 
without being specific on dated activities so that the program information that runs on the television will not be out of date 
too quickly. 
 
Finance/Informational Report :  Doreen met with the COA Finance Sub Committee be fore today’s meeting and gave the 
members of that committee a report on COA budget li ne items, which were generated by the Town Account,  to review.  
She said that everything is up to date on being pai d although we are waiting for a “Request for Transf er” approval from 
the Town Manager to transfer funds from the gas uti lities line to the electric utilities line to pay a  Unitil bill.  This is not 
uncommon and was expected to happen at this time of  year due to fluctuating increases/decreases in rat es from the utility 
companies. 
 
The Director is currently working on a MARTAP grant for $850.00 which if received will be used to improve our existing 
transportation program with new safety equipment for the van. 
Another grant which is being looked at is the Execu tive Office of Elder Affairs Service Incentive Gran t.  This would 
involve a consortium of area Councils on Aging, which border the town of Lunenburg, applying for a $20,000.00 grant.   
Doreen is also researching a grant which is availab le from the Community Foundation which will provide  funds for a 
wellness program with a paid instructor. 
 
A revised “Director Job Description” draft was comp leted by Doreen to help aid in the Director’s Evaluation process.  She 
has not submitted this to the Lunenburg Personnel Committee yet. 
A discussion ensued about the proposed “Executive S ession” which the Chairperson wanted to hold after this meeting to 
discuss the Director’s evaluation.  Sue Doherty inf ormed the board that the Town Clerk had advised her  that going into 
executive session is not necessary to discuss this matter, therefore it was not added to the January COA agenda.   
Doreen also commented in saying that she prefers this issue to be discussed in a public forum. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:   The septic mound behind the Eagle House Senior Center has been removed.  The Friends of the Eagle 
House Inc. funded the removal which cost $12,000.00.  The contractor will be back in the spring to seed and clean up the 
area.  After this is completed the area can be used for outdoor recreational activities only at the Eagle House.  In the mean 
time there will be no parking allowed in that area.  Request for construction of a parking lot have been included in the 
COA Capital Planning request with the town. 
The COA board thanked Lloyd Carlson, President of the Friends of the Eagle House and Pete Lincoln for all of their help 
with this project. 
 
Janitor for Eagle House:  The Director thanked the COA board for their help with pursing the issue of janitorial help for 
the Eagle House with the Town Manager.  The Department of Public Works has hired a part time 19 hour per week person 
to assist with Jim Breault the Facilities Manager.  This person will be at the Eagle House for 1 hour every morning to help 
with setup/break down of furniture and other tasks they may be asked of him by the Director. 
The Tax Work off person for the Eagle House will also be returning at the end of January to help with janitorial duties at 
the Eagle House.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Director’s Evaluation:   Pete Lincoln had previously contacted  Kerry Speidel, Town Manager and asked about the 
necessity of the COA board doing an evaluation on the Director of the senior center.   Kerry replied to him that she finds 
our material helpful in her evaluation process of the Director. 
Prior to this meeting, Pete requested that Doreen come up with ideas on what she thought the Director of the COA should 
be evaluated on. 
Discussion about the evaluation was held and it was decided that Deb Seeley will chair the Evaluation Sub Committee 
along Fred Crellin and Jim Hays as members. 
 
Fred Crellin left the meeting for another engagement at this time. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Eagle Heights:  The Eagle Heights project was not funded this yea r by the state but they will re-apply for funding a gain 
in the spring of 2012. 
 
COA Resignation:  A letter of resignation was received and read from COA board member Sandra Flanagan.  Sandra also 
informed Sue Doherty that she had sent a copy to the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen. 
A discussion then ensued about term limits and the possibility of waiving them in order to keep people  who want to 
remain on the board over the 6 year limit.  Doreen reminded the board that Executive Office of Elder Affairs recommends 
that term limits be kept in place.  This discussion  led to another regarding COA Board members serving on the Friends of 
the Eagle House Board to which Doreen reminded the board that Executive Office of Elder Affairs recomm ends that the 
this not be done. 
 
FY13 Budget:   Discussed under Director’s Report. 
 
Senior Center Evaluation/Survey:   Doreen suggested that an overall evaluation of th e center and its programs be 
designed as it may prove helpful to the Director’s Evaluation Committee.  The COA board felt that an e valuation of the 
center by its participants might be helpful but not necessary to be done in order to do the Director’s evaluation. 
 
Friends of the Eagle House Inc.:   Lloyd Carlson informed the COA board that the Fri ends have not paid the last half of 
the invoice to William Proctor Excavating for the work they have done on removing the septic mound at the Eagle House.  
He reassured them that they do have enough funds to  do so and will submit the final payment after the Friends next 
meeting. 
A discussion was held in relation to what the next step is in completing the parking lot construction.   Pete Lincoln stated 
that he would contact the Town Manager to ask what the Town of Lunenburg’s plan is for this project. 
Multiple board members commented on how they have h ad a difficult time in the past parking at the Eagl e House due to 
large functions that were going on at the center. 
It was reiterated again that there was to be no par king behind the Eagle House on the grass or the dir t and that there were 
concerns from the School Committee about not being informed about the mound removal, and that the exca vation work  
encroached on school property. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
December minutes from the Board Development meeting  and the Advocacy Committee meeting were passed out  for 
review and both will be voted on at the February COA meeting. 
  
Correspondence: 
   No correspondence was read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Comments were made about how the Friendly Seniors n eed to seek other accommodations for different meet ings due to 
the room capacity in the large function room not being able to accommodate them.  
Doreen gave kudos to the President of the Friendly Seniors, Lisa Hays saying that she does a great job with her functions. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 10:59AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, Susan Doherty Administrative Assistant  