===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 1/8/13 COA Meeting 
December 11, 2012  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara 
Brown, Jane Doyle, Deb Seeley, Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and  
Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest    
Whitney Lacka, Prospective COA Member 
 
Welcome   
Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:30AM 
 
Minutes    
Pete Lincoln asked for clarification from the Director regarding items in the November minutes concerning new 
hires, Holiday Luncheon, new kitchen equipment and side walk installation, and Boston Post Cane Ceremony.   
After discussion, Sis Montuori motioned to accept the minutes of the November 13, 2012 COA Meeting.  Joyce 
Wass seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
  
Director's Report    
Finance/Informational Report:  Ms. Noble informed the COA Board that the Boston Post Cane Ceremony for 
Thelma Katkin was held on November 20 th .  Although many of Ms. Katkins family members were in attendance 
the only Town Official who attended was the Town Manager, Kerry Speidel.  State Rep. Jennifer Benson’s 
office had contacted the Council on Aging giving regrets that Ms. Benson could not attend but they would be 
sending a Citation for Ms. Katkin through the mail.  Unfortunately the Citation did not arrive in time for the 
ceremony.  Although it was an enjoyable time, Ms. Noble was disappointed in the turnout from the community 
for this special ceremony. 
 
All new kitchen equipment which was purchased through the Capital Plan, except the wall oven, has been 
received and installed.  Invoices have been received and are in the process of being paid through the Town 
Accountant. 
 
On Thursday, December 6 
th  the MOC Nutrition congregate meal was received and deemed not fit for 
consumption by the Director and Meal Site Manager.  The meal that day was called “Friendship Stew” and the 
Director documented it with a picture which was sent on to MOC Nutrition along with the Town Manager.  
Hotdogs and Potato Salad were purchased to replace the meal.   
When contacted, MOC suggested adding celery and carrots to the meal to make it more appealing and still 
offer it to the clients.  There were approximately 18 clients attending lunch this day, all refused the MOC meal 
except for 2 of them, and after trying, did not eat it. 
The Lunenburg representative on the MOC Nutrition Advisory Board is Bessie Lindsey and she reports any 
problems our Meal Site may have to them. 
 
The new Meal Site hours and menu will begin on January 2 
nd  at the Eagle House.  Lunch will begin at 12 
Noon, Monday – Wednesday and will remain at 11:30AM  on Thursday.  Every Tuesday, there will be an 
alternating menu consisting of Hot Dogs one week and Pizza the other.  The Director realizes that this is a 
large undertaking but would like to ease into a different menu without losing the MOC meal program. She 
believes that funding for this can be done through the COA Gift Fund at the Town Hall. 
The Pepperell Meal Site is currently doing a Pilot project through MOC where they prepare their own meals 
which, are subsidized with funding through MOC.  They will update Ms. Noble periodically on how this program 
is working for them. 
 
Ms. Noble is the Montachusett Area Rep. for MCOA and is currently contacting COA’s to push Legislature to 
restore funding to $7 per elder.  Approximately 25% of the population in Massachusetts is over 60 and funding 
has been cut to $6.40 per elder. 
===PAGE 2===
The Director reported that the COA budget is holding its own but that $1600 needed to be transferred out of 
the Direct Energy Line and put into the Sewer ($1000) & Water lines ($600) to cover bills.  It is anticipated that 
another transfer will need to be made into the Sewer & Water lines again before the end of FY13. 
 
The Director had attended a Department Head meeting where the planned FY13 budget cuts were the 
discussion.  The Town Manager informed them that the Town of Lunenburg did not receive cuts from the State 
as bad as was previously thought and that all departments should continue operations as is. 
 
 
Old Business  
 
Capital Plan:  The Director will be attending the Capital Plan meeting this morning at 10AM where she will be 
discussing the request for the purchase of a generator for the Eagle House Senior Center.  Ms. Noble stated 
that the Town Manager was dismayed with her that she had begun researching the purchase of a generator 
and said that it was up to the Highway Superintendent to do this.  As of this meeting Ms. Noble has not 
received any information from the Highway Superintendent about the purchase of a generator.  Ms. Noble 
does not believe that Capital Planning will approve this request. 
 
New Business    
Budget Cuts FY13:  Discussed under Director’s report.  
 
FY14 Budget:  The Director reported that the Town Manager has not provided FY14 budget packets yet but 
hopes they will be here sometime in mid-January.  The Town Manager has told all Department Heads that the 
FY13 cuts will remain in FY14.  Ms. Noble will make a recommendation for the COA  FY14 budget to be 
restored in full so the Senior Center can re-open on Fridays. 
 
Sub-Committee Report    
Sub-Committee Meeting: Discussion was held concerning the posting of agendas for sub-committee 
meetings.  All COA sub-committees had been reorganized at the beginning of FY13 but Chairpersons to these 
sub-committees were not chosen at that time.   
At the November COA meeting sub-committee board members set meeting dates and times to be held on 
December 11 
th  for four of the COA sub-committees.  The Administrative Assistant reminded board members to 
send agendas to her for the Town Clerk to post within 48 business hours of that date.  Only one agenda was 
received and as a result, one of the meetings could not be held.  The Director and the Administrative Assistant 
were able to set agendas for the other two for that day. 
Board members were confused about who should be posting the agendas considering that there were no 
Chairpersons to the newly arranged sub-committees, therefore nobody replied to the agenda requests.  Board 
members decided that if this situation should arise again, it would be the responsibility of the former 
Chairperson to set the agenda, of the particular sub-committee which will be meeting, with the Administrative 
Assistant in a timely manner for posting.  
 
Chairpersons to COA sub-committees were assigned as follows: 
 
Pete Lincoln moved to appoint Sis Montouri as COA Advocacy Sub-Committee Chairperson.  Joyce Wass 
seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Joyce Wass moved to appoint Pete Lincoln as COA Board Development Sub-Committee Chairperson.  Sis 
Montouri seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Deb Seeley moved to appoint Fred Crellin as COA Finance Sub-Committee Chairperson.  Pete Lincoln 
seconded.  All approved, motion carried.  
 
Jane Doyle moved to appoint Barbara Brown as COA By-Law Sub-Committee Chairperson.  Sis Montouri 
seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Pete Lincoln moved to appoint Deb Seeley as COA Director’s Evaluation Sub-Committee Chairperson.  
Barbara Brown seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Jane Doyle requested that the Director provide a COA Organizational Chart which outlines the relationship the 
COA has with the Town, Supporters of the Eagle House and any other entities which the COA may be involved 
with.  This chart will be incorporated into the COA By-Laws. 
 
Correspondence   None 
 
General Discussion   
 
Adjournment                 
Joyce Wass motioned to adjourn the meeting.  Pete Lincoln seconded. All approved, motion carried.      
Meeting Adjourned at 10:05 a.m.  
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susan Susan Susan Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Doherty, Administrative Assistant Doherty, Administrative Assistant Doherty, Administrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              