===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       Minutes Approved at 11/13/12 COA Meeting  
October 9, 2012  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara 
Brown, Jane Doyle, Deb Seeley, Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and Sue Doherty (Admin. 
Asst.) 
 
Welcome:   Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:30AM 
 
Minutes:   Sis Montuori motioned to accept the minutes of the September 11, 2012 COA Meeting.  Jane Doyle 
seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
  
Director's Report :   
 
Finance/Informational Report:  Doreen Noble reported to the COA board that the COA utility bills are being 
paid on time although there will need to be a transfer into the Water Line to cover future expenses. 
 
Jim McGuigan has been hired as a second COA van driver on a “Per Diem” basis.  More hours should be 
available for him during the winter months. 
 
There were four applicants that came forward through “in house” advertising for the position of a part-time Meal 
Site Coordinator but none were appropriate.  Ms. Noble will be advertising outside of the town for this position. 
 
Capitol Planning had approved $10K for the replacement of the oven, refrigerator, and steam table in the large 
kitchen at the Eagle House.  Ms. Noble has contacted Kittredge Equipment Company for quotes and will be 
ordering the following:  Steam Table, Industrial Refrigerator/Freezer, Sandwich/Salad Bar Unit, Pizza Warmer, 
and a Hot Dog Roller.  These items will amount to $8355.00.  Due to the small size of the wall oven it will need 
to be ordered through Home Depot at a cost of approximately $1200.  The remainder of the money could 
possibly be used to replace tables at the senior center. 
 
In order to install the new refrigerator/freezer unit shelves/cabinets behind the Meal Site Managers desk will 
need to be removed and place elsewhere. 
 
FY14 Capital Planning requests for the Town of Lunenburg are due on October 26, 2012. 
 
FY13 Formula Grant has been submitted. 
 
Jim Hays informed the board that the Supporters of the Eagle House had contributed $8100.00 last year to the 
Eagle House Senior Center for items not covered in the COA budget. 
 
Jim Hays requested that a COA Finance Sub-Committee meeting be scheduled to discuss the FY14 budget. 
  
Old Business  
 
Recreation Area Behind Eagle House:  As of this meeting plans for the recreation area behind the Eagle 
House are “Status Qou”.  Pete Lincoln stated that funding will need to be provided for completion of the 
recreation area.  
 
Lunenburg Relief Day:  Ms. Noble stated that there is $4900. in a COA revolving fund which was collected for 
the Senior Center on Lunenburg Relief Day.   
 
FY13 Formula Grant: Discussed under Director’s Report. 
 
Capital Planning: Discussed under Director’s Report. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
New Business: 
 
MCOA Conference Report: Ms. Noble attended the MCOA Conference which was held October 3 
rd  through 
the 5 th .  She reported on seminars which she had attended which included a LoJack safety program for 
persons with dementia, Education & Learning Options outside of the senior center, Intergenerational program 
with High School students centered around studies on aging, Brain Healthy Smart Food, & an automated 
phone call system through MySenior Center which would inform Eagle House program participants of 
changes/cancellations. 
 
Sub-committee Report:   Barbara Brown presented the updated Council on Aging Bylaws for signatures by 
the board members. 
 
Correspondence:    
 
General Discussion:  Ms. Noble informed the board that there has been an influx of telephone calls at the 
senior center concerning Tufts Health Insurance.  People on this plan have received a confusing letter from 
Tufts stating that their Health Insurance will be discontinued at the end of December and that they need to call 
Tufts to make arrangements to enroll in a new plan. 
 
Ms. Conrad reminded the board that a Flu Clinic will be held at the senior center on October 17 
th . 
 
Pete Lincoln was updated on the “round table” discussion which was held at the September 11th COA meeting 
with State Representative Jen Benson.  
 
Deb Seeley informed the board that she had just recently lost her father.   The COA gave their condolences to 
Ms. Seeley. 
 
Adjournment:  Jane Doyle motioned to adjourn the meeting.  Barbara Brown seconded. All approved, motion 
carried. 
Meeting Adjourned at 10:35 a.m. 
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susan Doherty, AdmSusan Doherty, AdmSusan Doherty, AdmSusan Doherty, Adm inistrative Assistant inistrative Assistant inistrative Assistant inistrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              