===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes approved at the 3/13/2012 COA Meeting 
February 14, 2012 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chair), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown,  
Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Deb Seeley 
 
Guest: 
  Lloyd Carlson and John Male  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, welcomed the guests and called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.    
 
After introductions a discussion was held concerning term limits for Council on Aging board members.   
Board members agreed that they liked the language in the COA Bylaws concerning term limits which allows  
the term limit policy to be waived by vote of the COA.  Pete Lincoln asked if Judy St.Arnaud, who attended the  
January COA meeting, was interested in becoming a COA board member.  Joyce Wass informed him that  
due to other commitments, she would not be available for a few months. 
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the January 10, 2012 COA meeting  
minutes as corrected.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
    
 
Finance/Informational Report :  Doreen reported that she did not anticipate any upcoming financial problems, although 
due to her being out sick for several days, she is two weeks behind in processing the Meals on Wheels mileage 
reimbursement.  
 
The intern from Mount Wachusett Community College w ill not be continuing at the Eagle House.  Doreen d id not feel 
that the “fit” was right for the senior center. 
 
The MARTAP grant for $850.00 which if received will  be used to improve our existing transportation pro gram with new 
safety equipment for the van, has been applied for.   
Due to time constraints and illness the Executive Office of Elder Affairs Service Incentive Grant was not applied for. 
 
Doreen informed the board that Lunenburg Selectman Ernie Sund, is looking for a representative from th e Council on 
Aging to join a Memorial Day Committee for the town of Lunenburg. 
 
Doreen Noble and Meal Site personnel Chris McCarthy  and Ruth Swiecicki will all be attending Serve Saf e certification 
classes soon.  This is necessary in order to have a meal site on the premises.  
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:   Lloyd Carlson, who was in attendance representing the Friends of the Eagle House Inc., reported that the 
seeding and finish work on the septic mound removal at the Eagle House will have to wait until spring to be completed.  
Although this will not be used as a parking lot, Pete Lincoln reported that the Town Manager Kerry Speidel has given 
approval for things such as a horse shoe pit and a bocce court to be installed.  She also told Pete that arrangements could 
be made for the prisoners from the Worcester County Sherriff’s department to clean up any debris that may have been left 
behind from the mound removal. 
 
Director’s Evaluation:   Not discussed at this meeting. 
 
FY13 COA Budget:   Doreen said that due to her recent illness she needed to cancel a meeting twice with the Town 
Manager concerning the FY13 COA budget.  She will schedule a meeting with her A.S.A.P. There will be a public 
presentation on March 8, 2012 at 7PM at Lunenburg town hall where the COA budget for FY13 will be presented. 
 
Memorial Day Committee:   Discussed under Director’s report 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
New Business: 
   
 
Friends of the Eagle House Inc.:   Not discussed at this meeting. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
A motion was made and seconded to accept the Board Development and Advocacy Committee December 2012 mi nutes 
as presented.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Pete Lincoln reminded all sub-committee’s to have t heir end of year reports prepared for the Annual CO A meeting in 
June. 
 
Jim Hays distributed COA Financial Committee minute s for the board to review and approve at the March 2012 COA 
meeting. 
 
Sis Montuori informed the board about the “Mature H omeowner’s Discount” where elder homeowners can get  a 
significant discount on the homeowners insurance, w hich she claims that insurance companies don’t seem  to promote too 
openly to the public. 
 
Correspondence: 
   No correspondence was read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Doreen informed the board that she will be on vacation from June 23, 2012 to July 9, 2012. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 10:25AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
Susan Doherty Administrative Assistant  
Lunenburg Council on Aging  