===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                             
Minutes Approved at the 9/10/13 COA Meeting 
August 13, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara B rown (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble 
(Director), Jane Doyle, Connie O’Dea, Joyce Wass. 
 
Excused:   Deb Seeley, Whitney Lacka, & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:  Marion Benson, Director Lunenburg Planning Board, Lloyd Carlson (Supporters of Eagle 
House), Tony and Shirley Bertoni, Judy Tarbell, (Pe rspective COA Board Members), Karen Menard 
(FinCom), and Brook Hansel (Student). 
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 10:30AM.  She welcomed and introduced 
all in attendance.  
 
Minutes:  It was noted to correct New Business minutes to r ead – Barbara Brown as COA Vice 
Chairperson instead of Joyce Wass. 
Ms. Doyle moved to approve the June 11, 2013 minute s, with correction.  Ms. Wass seconded.  On 
vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed. 
  
5 Year Plan for Municipality – Marion Benson, Plann ing Director:  Ms. Benson passed out a 
Citizens Survey for the Lunenburg Master Plan notin g that this survey was a sample and not the final 
draft.  A computerized program “Survey Monkey” will  be used to collect information from residents and 
business owners of Lunenburg that are concerned with the future of Lunenburg.  Ms. Benson noted that 
Lunenburg is known for its agricultural and rural atmosphere.  The survey will give all citizens (including 
senior citizens who are sometimes overlooked) their  chance to have their views and concerns 
considered when decisions are made about our commun ity.  Things such as open spaces, historical 
sites, outdoor activity areas, housing, conservatio n and any businesses such as Pharmaceutical 
Centers or anything else that may be addressed in the future will be covered.  All future changes for the 
Town must be considered ahead of time in order to b e incorporated into the Capital Planning Budget.  
Ms. Benson stated that she would be glad to give a presentation at the Senior Center and help in any 
way that she can with completing the survey. 
 
The COA Board thanked Ms. Benson for her presentation. 
 
Director's Report    
1. Finance/Informational Report:  No official report was presented.  Ms. Noble explai ned that $8500 
for Utilities has been transferred to the Public Wo rks budget from the COA budget and will be paid 
though their account in the future. 
 
Faith Anderson has returned and the Outreach program is going well. 
 
Farmer’s Market Coupons have been distributed to 50 seniors and MOC Nutrition will give us any 
leftover coupons for distribution. 
 
Dave Berthiaume continues to bring day old bakery products to the Eagle House to be given away to 
the senior citizens. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Noble stated that 37% of Lunenburg’s residents are now 60 years of age or older and an increase 
in people means an increase in funds from the State.  When Ms. Noble started as Director, State 
funding was $10,500 and is now $16,800. 
 
As of October 1 
st  there will be a Breakfast Program introduced at the senior center from 8:30-9:30AM.  
The final dollar amount for this program may be $1 to $1.25, but has not been set yet.  Fee will be 
underwritten by Formula Grant. 
 
The Pancake Breakfast is still well attended and the Monday Soup & Sandwich lunch as well as the 
Thursday Salad Bar are very successful. 
 
The Eagle House had a bat loose in the center but this has been dealt with. 
 
Old Business  
1. Recreation Area Behind Eagle House: Dave MacDonald communicated to Ms. Noble that a gro up 
of volunteers would like to set up a Bocci Court on  the lawn behind the senior center in honor of Mari o 
Patacchiola.  Ms. Noble said that some of these funds could come out of the FY13 budget. 
 
2. Building Re-Use Committee:  Ms. Noble read a report from Deb Seeley, our COA Re presentative 
to the Building Re-Use Committee.  Ms. Seeley liste d the names of people on the committee and that 
some thoughts were of refurbishing the Passios Building for Town Offices.  Different uses of the Brooks 
House were also discussed. 
 
3. MART Representative: Continued to September meeting. 
 
New Business   
1. 5 Year Plan for Municipality – Marion Benson, Pl anning Director: Discussed out of order after 
Minutes. 
 
2. Volunteer Recognition Report: Ms. Noble reported that volunteers have logged clos e to 3000 
hours of service to the Senior Center.  The Firemen  cooked the burgers until they were called out for a 
fire, then the Police came to replace them.  Marion  J. Brandt was recognized posthumously for her 
many years of service. 
 
3. FY13 Budget Report: There is a surplus from the FY13 budget of 98 cents. 
 
4. FY14 Budget: The FY14 budget is commencing and the Formula Grant is being worked on. 
 
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, ByLaw, Director’s 
Evaluation 
1. Reorganize Sub-Committees: Tabled to September meeting. 
 
The COA board discussed if the Advocacy Committee h ad presented a year-end report for FY13.  This 
will be investigated further. 
Ms. Noble questioned if the Director’s Evaluation Committee was omitted.   
Ms. Doyle replied that that the committee did not do one in FY13. 
 
Correspondence  : Ms. Conrad read a thank you note from Ms. Montou ri and in the note she also said 
that it was her wish to continue doing the Christmas tree decorating. 
 
===PAGE 3===
General Discussion: Ms. Doyle offered to lend some of her Anna Lee Dol ls to be used for decorating 
the senior center during the Christmas season. 
Ms. Conrad offered the loan of her “masks” for the Halloween season. 
 
Ms. Doyle commended Ms. Hansel for collecting food and funds for the Lunenburg Food Bank and for 
the many community services that she and her friend s have performed.  She is considered a gifted 
person with drive and ambition.  
Ms. Conrad stated that she had Brook as a student and knew that she would always do well. 
 
Adjournment    
Ms. Doyle moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Wa ss seconded.  On vote motion carried, 5 in 
favor 0 opposed. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:45AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Barbara Brown Vice Chairperson 
Lunenburg COA 
 
               
 
 
    
    