===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 4/9/13 COA Meeting 
March 12, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),  
Barbara Brown, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused:  Deb Seeley & Fred Crellin 
 
Guests:    
Stephen Raboin (Lunenburg Finance Committee), & Whitney Lacka 
 
Welcome   
Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:30AM.  
 
Minutes:  The COA Board complimented the Administrative Assistant on the February 2013 minutes. 
Sis Montouri motioned to approve the February 12, 2013 COA minutes.  Pete Lincoln seconded.  On vote, 
motion carried, 7 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
At the February 2013 COA meeting the question of whether or not there were enough members present for a 
quorum to vote on minutes was presented.  Sue Doherty verified with the Town Clerk that “If you have only 9 
members appointed when it should be 11 then the 9 becomes the number you use to determine a quorum”. 
  
Director's Report    
Doreen Noble mentioned that there was no COA monthly financial page available for this meeting due to the 
fact that there have been some vendor changes and we are in the process of transferring monies from one line 
to another to cover shortages. 
 
Ms. Noble has been invited to participate on a MOC Nutrition panel of “Stake Holders” consisting of area COA 
representatives on Wednesday, February 13 
th  to discuss food issues at area meal sites. 
 
The Tuesday meal site menu of pizza and hotdogs is not going as well as planned and will be discontinued.  
The normal MOC meal will continue to be served this day. 
Monday’s soup and sandwich menu has proven very popular and will continue. 
 
The Eagle House Outreach Coordinator Faith Anderson is currently out on a medical leave.  The Town 
Manager has approved the temporary hiring of Joanne Brazell to fill in this position at 15 hrs. per week until 
Faith’s return.  Joanne comes with Outreach experience and will be under the direct supervision of the COA 
Director.  Joanne currently works 4hrs on Mondays at the Eagle House meal site. 
 
Ms. Noble reminded the COA board that at the last meeting it was mentioned that the decision on how to 
designate the FY14 budget should be at the Director’s discretion.  Ms. Noble said that the Town Manager does 
not want to open Town buildings on Fridays and she will look into increasing Outreach staffing.  She justified 
this decision by saying that there were many people in the building the other day which averaged out to be 
approximately 33 patrons per single staff person (3) which presents difficulties in emergency situations and 
that there are currently 3 Protective Services cases open in the Outreach Department involving other Town 
Departments and outside agencies. 
 
Ms. Noble is exploring the possibility of using a volunteer on Fridays to transport clients in a “Town” owned 
vehicle to medical appointments.  If implemented this will not fall under MART (Montachusett Area Regional 
Transit) nor will the MART dispatcher be used for this program.  Ms. Noble has contacted Police Chief Marino 
about the possibility of using a Town owned impounded vehicle for this venture.  This was also presented to 
the Lunenburg Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-off Committee who spurned the idea citing liability, although 
the Towns insurance carrier would cover it. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Old Business  
1.  Town Finance Committee Meeting (March 21 st ):   The Director is scheduled to present her FY14 COA  
Budget to the Lunenburg Finance Committee on March 21 st  at 8:30PM at Town Hall.  She requested that some 
of the COA board members be in attendance. 
 
 
2.  2014 Budget: Ms. Noble mentioned that the Town Manager has decided to remove the utility lines from the 
COA FY14 Budget and place into Central Purchasing through the DPW. 
 
Pete Lincoln questioned why the monies collected for the COA last summer at the Lunenburg Relief Day could 
not be used to fund the increase in Outreach. 
Ms. Noble replied that those monies are not include d in the FY14 Town Budget but exist in a “Gift Acco unt”.  It 
would not be practical to use that money for a sala ry because it is not sustainable.  She also stated that she is 
hoping to draw on that money for Friday transportation costs. 
 
Mr. Lincoln asked if the Finance Committee does not  approve the increase of funds for the Outreach Dep t., 
could the Gift Fund be used for either two Outreach positions or one benefit position? 
Ms. Noble replied that it has not been determined yet. 
 
Mr. Lincoln stated that we should not be worrying a bout sustainability of positions but rather spend t he money 
now when its needed. 
 
Mr. Lincoln also brought forth the question of Long evity pay to Town employees.  Ms. Noble responded t hat 
after 10 years of benefit service to the Town, empl oyees receive a stipend on their Anniversary date o f hire 
which is a small percentage of their yearly wage, which is built into the budget each year. 
 
New Business  - None 
 
Sub-Committee Report    
1.  Vote to recommend to Selectmen Appointment of Connie O’Dea as COA member:  Jane Doyle moved 
to recommend to the Selectmen that Connie O’Dea be appointed as Selectmen Appointee to the Council on 
Aging.  Pete Lincoln seconded.  On vote motion carried, 7 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
A COA orientation date will be set with Ms. O’Dea and Ms. Lacka with the Director and the COA Chairperson 
and Vice Chairperson. 
 
Pete Lincoln moved to accept the January 15, 2013 COA Finance Committee minutes.  Sis Montouri 
seconded.  On vote, motion carried 7 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
The COA Advocacy Committee minutes of December 11, 2012 were distributed to members for review.  These 
will be voted on at the April COA Board meeting. 
 
Sis Montouri reported that the Advocacy Committee is looking into the possibility of doing a fundraiser for the 
Eagle House  called “Festival of Trees”.   
Discussion ensued regarding this event and it was determined that the COA is not able to hold fundraisers as 
they are a Town Department and they should look at collaborating with the Eagle House Supporters on this 
endeavor.  
The Advocacy Committee will post a meeting at 9AM on April 9, 2013 for further discussion on this event. 
 
Barbara Brown reported that she will be working on the ByLaw changes concerning outgoing COA Sub-
Committee Chairpersons responsibilities and will present corrections at the April COA meeting. 
 
 
Correspondence   - None 
. 
 
===PAGE 3===
General Discussion  - None 
 
Adjournment    
Sis Montouri moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Barbara Brown seconded.  On vote motion carried, 7 in 
favor 0 opposed. 
               
Meeting Adjourned at 10:25AM. 
    
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              