===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       
Minutes approved at 6/11/13 COA meeting 
May 14, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),  
Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Whitney Lacka, Connie Odea,  
Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass, & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:  Stephen Raboin (Lunenburg Finance Committee) 
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:30AM and welcomed all in attendance. 
 
Minutes:  Ms. Montouri moved to approve the April 9, 2013 COA minutes.   Mr. Lincoln seconded.   
On vote, motion carried, 11 in favor, 0 opposed. 
  
Director's Report    
1.Finance/Informational Report :  Ms. Noble reported that due to it being the end of the Fiscal Year 
and funds are being constantly shifted from one lin e to another, there would not be a Finance report.  
Currently she is in the process of consolidating en d of year bills with the Town Accountant and a fina l 
FY13 finance report should be available at the firs t Council on Aging meeting in August for members to  
review. 
Beginning in FY14, all Senior Center utilities will  be paid through a general fund at the DPW, which w ill 
eliminate the need for future COA 541 account reports at the COA meetings. 
 
Ms. Noble is currently working on FY14 vouchers/pur chase orders which need to be submitted by 
Wednesday. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that she is part of a Memorial D ay Committee which was formed last year by Ernie 
Sund.  This committee is in charge of the Memorial Day Ceremony which will be held on May 26 
th  at 
11:45AM at Veterans Memorial Park.  Other members a re Police Chief Marino, School Superintendent 
Loxi Calmes, and PACC representative Jo McLaughlin. 
 
The COA budget passed at the May Town Meeting with no opposition. 
 
Ms. Noble stated that at last month’s COA meeting t he minutes reflected that beginning on July 1, 
2013, the Meal Site Manager’s job description will carry the requirement of obtaining a Serve Safe 
Certification Certificate as part of the terms of e mployment.  When the current Meal Site Manager, 
Chris McCarthy was informed of this last month, her response was to resign. 
Former Meal Site Manager, Ruth Swiecicki along with  the Monday Meal Site Manager, Joanne Brazell, 
have agreed to share the duties until October 2013.   Ms. Brazell will be taking her Serve Safe 
Certification class this week and Ms. Swiecicki  will renew hers at a later date in FY14. 
 
Outreach Coordinator, Faith Anderson, should be returning to work on June 4 
th . 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that she will be taking vacation time from June 17 
th  through the 27 th . 
 
The SHINE (Serving Health Insurance Needs of Elders ) Memorandum of Understanding was received 
and signed by the Director.  This program is run th rough the Massachusetts Executive Office of Elder 
Affairs and basically states that the COA will prov ide a private space with telephone for their volunt eer 
counselors to assist Lunenburg residents with their health insurance questions.  
===PAGE 2===
 
The COA Board Training session which was supposed to be held at the Eagle House Senior Center on 
4/30/13 had been cancelled due to lack of participa nts.   Emmett Schmarsow from Executive Office of 
Elder Affairs, facilitates these trainings and has not rescheduled a new day as of yet. 
 
The Eagle House Meal Site Salad Bar, which is held on Thursdays, has been a great success although 
Ms. Noble found it difficult to shop for and prep t he food for this meal program.  She will be looking  for 
volunteers to help with this program. 
The Eagle House Senior Center will be hosting a “Home Care Fair” on June 26 
th  from 9-11AM.  Multiple 
Home Care Agencies from surrounding areas will be i n attendance to distribute information and “give 
aways” from the agencies. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that the Senior Center has been working with numerous agencies such as assisted 
living facilities, banks, and the Lunenburg Fire De partment to come to the center to present free 
educational programs for the elders.  All programs are advertised in the COA newsletter, Lunenburg 
Cable Scroll, and Lunenburg Ledger.  Ms. Noble moni tors the agency programs to ensure that they do 
not try and make a “hard sell” about their agencies to the elders. 
 
Mr. Lincoln questioned if the Eagle House still has  the Special Needs Students from the High School 
here to help out at the meal Site. 
Ms. Noble responded, not at this time because there  had been several incidences with some of the 
students and she felt that the staff per student ra tio was not sufficient and until that can be rectif ied the 
program will be put on hold. 
 
Old Business  
1.  MCOA Board Training:   Discussed under Director’s Report 
 
2. COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition Ceremony: The date for the COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition 
Ceremony will be held on the first Monday in August which will be 8/5/13.   
 
New Business   
1.  Annual Meeting Reminder June 11, 2013:  Board members were reminded that all end of year 
sub-committee reports are due at the June meeting. 
Mr. Crellin stated that he would not be able to attend this meeting. 
 
Mr. Lincoln presented the board with the FY13 Board Development Committee end of year report early. 
 
2.  Discussion Slate of New Officers for FY14: Mr. Lincoln presented the board with the slate of n ew 
COA Officers which will be voted on at the June meeting as follows: 
Chairperson – Mary Lynn Conrad – 1 year 
Vice Chair – Barbara Brown – 1 year 
 
Sub-Committee Report    
Ms. Brown presented the revised COA Bylaws for board members to sign. 
 
Correspondence    
Ms. Montuori stated that she had received a note fr om former COA board member Gloria O’Brien 
saying that she is doing well. 
 
Ms. Noble stated that there will be a new law comin g into effect which will enable people to change 
their “Life” insurance over to “Long Term Care” ins urance.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
General Discussion   
Mr. Hays commented that the new bench and trees on the grassy area of the drive way looked nice but 
suggested that the swing on the porch be moved.  He  thought that Pearl Brook Housing might be able 
to utilize it. 
Ms. Doherty replied that the swing was a gift to th e Senior Center from the Letarte family in memory o f 
their parents and that it would not be appropriate to do so.  The swing stays on the porch for protect ion 
from the elements and vandals. 
 
Ms. Seeley asked if an ad could be placed in the COA newsletter asking for new board members.   
Ms. Doherty stated that the Town Manager mentioned to her that there were 2 talent bank forms 
submitted to Town Hall specifically stating their i nterest in the COA board and that they should be 
looked at also. 
Members also discussed the fact that the early 9:30 AM meeting time discourages some people from 
joining the COA board due to the fact that they are still working.   
 
Ms. Noble mentioned that the Town of Clinton has a “Youth COA” group which is part of their High 
School curriculum.  She said that she could arrange  for them to come to a Lunenburg COA meeting to 
talk to members about this program. 
 
Adjournment    
Mr. Lincoln moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Wass seconded.  On vote motion carried, 11 in 
favor 0 opposed. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:26AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  
Lunenburg Council on Aging  
               
 
 
    
    