===PAGE 1===
  
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                 
Minutes Approved at the 12/10/2013 COA Meeting                    
November 12, 2013      Minutes Amended at the 3/11/2014 COA Meeting 
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara B rown (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble 
(Director), Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass, Deb Seeley, Connie O’Dea, Whitney Lacka,  Shirley Bertone, Tony 
Bertone, Judy Tarbell and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:   Karin Menard (Lunenburg Finance Committee), Pete Lincoln, Loxi Calmes, (School 
Superintendent), and Mike Mackin (Chair School Building Committee)  
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 10:30AM.   
 
Minutes:  Ms. Doyle moved to approve the minutes of the Oct ober 8, 2013 COA meeting.  Ms. Seeley 
seconded.  On vote, motion carried, 9 in favor, 0 opposed. 
  
Director's Report    
1. Finance/Informational Report:  Ms. Noble reported that the COA has used approximately 40.9% of 
its FY14 budget which leaves a remainder of approximately $62,106.00. 
 
Ms. Noble will be meeting with the Capital Planning  Committee on 11/13/2013 where they will discuss 
floor replacement in the older section of the Eagle  House along with carpet replacement and 
replacement of air conditioning units. 
 
Ms. Noble was scheduled to meet with the Town Manag er concerning her evaluation but that meeting 
had been cancelled. 
 
Meal Site Coordinator Ruth Swiecicki has left for F lorida and will not be back until late spring of 20 14.  
Ms. Noble has hired a “Dietary Assistant” to work a t the Meal Site 2 days per week.  Salary for this 
position will be paid out of the Formula Grant. 
 
2.  MCOA Report: Ms. Noble reported on the MCOA (Massachusetts Councils on Aging) Conference 
which she had attended in October.  Programs she attended were as follows: 
*Understanding, Approaching, and Helping the Human Behind the Hoard 
*Creating the Next Generation of Senior Centers: A Strategy Guide for All of Us 
*Hidden Hunger among Our Senior Citizens 
*360 Service Package in Senior Centers 
 
Old Business  
1. MCOA Board Training: MCOA held a Regional Board Training at the Eagle Ho use on 11/6/2013 
which was facilitated by Emmett Schmarsow from Executive Office of Elder Affairs. 
Ms. Conrad commented on the training saying that it  was good to get input from other COA’s in the 
area and she enjoyed Mr. Schmarsow’s comments. 
Ms. Doyle mentioned that Mr. Schmarsow said that he  believes that COA Accreditation is a waste of 
time but feels that the Director Certification is a good thing to do. 
 
2. Boston Post Cane:  Ms. Noble reported that according to Town records, Ms. Marion Pepin will be 
the next recipient of the Boston Post Cane.  The no tification process has not begun as of yet and will  
begin in December. 
 
===PAGE 2===
3. Building Reuse Committee: Ms. Seeley reported that she had met with the COA D irector and 
assisted her with drafting a letter for the Buildin g Reuse Committee informing them of why there is no  
need for the senior center to be moved to the Passi os building and what the Eagle House Senior 
Center is used for. 
The Building Reuse Committee voted at a previous me eting to take the Eagle House Senior Center off 
of the lists of Town Depts. to potentially be moved to the Passios Building. 
Ms. Seeley also mentioned FLLAC Collaborative has s hown interest in purchasing the Passios 
Building.   
This committee will meet with the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen in December to present their findings. 
 
4. COA Policies & Procedures: Ms. Noble explained to the board that the outdated COA Policies and 
Procedures will be reviewed by herself along with t he COA Administrative Assistant.  This will continu e 
to be a work in progress. 
 
5.  Recreation Area behind Eagle House: Construction on the bocce court behind the Eagle Ho use 
has been completed.  Work will continue on that are a with the relocation of the Arborvitae trees and 
additions of picnic tables and benches. 
 
New Business   
1. School Building Committee (Taken out of order after Minutes) : Loxi Calmes, School Superintendent, and 
Mike Mackin, School Building Committee Chairperson,  came before the COA to display the plans and 
answer any questions for the proposed new Middle/Hi gh School Building Project.  Items discussed 
were existing conditions at the current High School /Building Capacity, Schematic Design and 
anticipated costs of the project along with the estimated tax impact on resident’s homes. 
Mr. Mackin stated that this committee would like to be transparent with all aspects of this project so that 
people are informed when it comes time to vote. 
 
Ms. Wass commented to say that when she was a stude nt at the High School, there were 2 electrical 
outlets in each classroom, which was fine at that t ime.  She believes that things have changed 
drastically and is in favor of the project. 
 
Ms. Doyle asked if parking would be impacted for th e senior center with this new project and would 
there be space at the new school for “Adult Learning.” 
Mr. Mackin replied that the parking would not be im pacted at all.  There will be new parking at the 
building along with the parking that currently exists.  There will also be space and opportunity for “ Adult 
Learning” at the new school as well. 
The COA board thanked Ms. Calmes and Mr. Mackin for their presentation. 
  
2. “Senior Center” Name Change: Ms. Noble mentioned the possibility of changing the  name of the 
Eagle House Senior Center.  Her thoughts were that if the words “Senior Center” were dropped and just 
call the building “The Eagle House” it might make i t more appealing to senior citizens of all ages.  T his 
topic will be discussed again at another COA meeting. 
 
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, Bylaw, Director’s 
Evaluation 
1. Joint meeting with COA Finance Committee: The joint meeting of the COA & the COA Finance 
Committee opened at 11:50AM for the purpose of minute approval.   
 
Ms. O’Dea moved to approve the 11/4/2013 COA Financ e Committee meeting.  Ms. Tarbell seconded.  
Motion carried unanimously. 
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Seeley moved for the COA to accept the 10/8/201 3 & 11/4/2013 Finance Committee minutes.  Ms. 
Tarbell seconded.  Motion carried unanimously. 
 
Joint meeting closed at 11:52AM 
 
Director’s Evaluation Committee: The Director’s Evaluation Committee had met on 11/4/2013 and at 
that meeting they approved the minutes of their 10/8/2013 meeting. 
Ms. Doyle reviewed the 10/8/2013 Director’s Evaluat ion Committee meeting with the COA board.  
Board members discussed how the Director is evaluat ed.  Members were in agreement that there was 
no right or wrong way to complete this evaluation a nd that this process will always be a work in 
progress.  The goal of this committee will be to he lp the Director bring information to the Town 
Manager.  Ms. Doyle will bring updated “tools” for aiding in this evaluation to the December COA 
meeting. 
 
Ms. Seeley moved for the COA to accept the 10/8/2013 Director’s Evaluation Committee minutes.  
Ms. Tarbell seconded.  Motion carried unanimously. 
 
Ms. Noble suggested to the COA that perhaps they may consider changing the COA sub-committees to 
Adhoc Committees. 
 
2. Subcommittee Minutes & Agenda Submittals: Board members were reminded about submitting 
their agendas and minutes in a timely manner for their respective subcommittees. 
 
Correspondence :  None 
 
General Discussion:  Pete Lincoln mentioned the new Bocce court behind  the Eagle House and said 
that a number of volunteers from the Town including  3 of the Selectmen were the driving force in its 
construction.  He requested that all involved be sent thank you notes by the Director. 
 
Discussion ensued among the board members about the  statistics of the Lunenburg Community Food 
Bank. From 11/1/2013-11/10/2013 there have been 41 families in Lunenburg who have utilized the 
Lunenburg Community Food Bank.  Non-perishable food  items are accepted year round at the Eagle 
House for this program. 
 
Due to a prior commitment, Ms. O’Dea excused hersel f from the remainder of the COA meeting at 
11:45AM. 
 
Adjournment    
Ms. Seeley moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Lacka seconded.   
On vote motion carried, 9 in favor 0 opposed. 
Meeting adjourned at 12:20PM  
 
Upcoming Meetings 
December 10, 2013 
January 14, 2014 
 
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant    
Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA  
===PAGE 4===
 
               
 
 
    
    