===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       Minutes Approved at 2/12/13 COA Meeting 
January 15, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara 
Brown, Jane Doyle, Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused:  Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass, & Sis Montuori 
 
Guest 
   
Connie Odea 
 
Welcome   
Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:35AM, wished everyone a Happy New Year and 
said that she is looking forward to working with everyone over the next year.  She also introduced Connie 
Odea as a prospective COA Member. 
 
Pete Lincoln spoke of the passing of long-time volunteer Marion J. Brandt and asked for a moment of silence. 
 
Minutes    
Pete Lincoln asked for clarification from the Director regarding items in the November minutes concerning the 
generator and COA organizational chart.  Ms. Noble informed him that these will be discussed in the Director’s 
Report. 
 
Pete Lincoln motioned to accept the minutes of the December 11, 2012 COA Meeting.  Barbara Brown 
seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
  
Director's Report    
Finance/Informational Report:  Ms. Noble informed the COA Board that the flu has been very active at the 
Eagle House and this is why the meeting was cancelled last week.   
 
Jim McGuigan has begun his employment as part-time COA van driver and will be working on Monday & 
Tuesday.  Gerry Beloin will be working on Wednesday & Thursday.  There are also two “on call” drivers ready 
to work if needed. 
 
The changes in the kitchen which had been previously discussed have begun.  Every Monday only a soup & 
sandwich menu will be offered which will be prepared by the Monday Meal Site Coordinator.  Tuesdays will see 
an alternating schedule of pizza one week and hot dogs the other along with the option to order a MOC 
Nutrition meal.  Price will remain the same for all meals as $2.25 donation.  The Director hopes to use the COA 
Gift Account, which is accessed through Town Hall, to purchase the food for the Monday & Tuesday meals 
which are prepared on site. 
Ms. Noble has been in contact with the Pepperell COA who had hired a Nutritionist for their site.  Pepperell 
receives the food that they prepare through MOC Nutrition and so far their program is getting a good response.  
Ms. Noble feels that at this time this does not seem to be a good fit for the Eagle House due to regulations and 
funding restraints. 
There is a MOC Nutrition Menu board made up of senior center representatives from the different communities 
that they serve.  Lunenburg’s representatives are Bessie Lindsey and Gerry Greene and they relay any 
complaints or suggestions that the congregate meal sites may have back to MOC. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Committee had met yesterday.  They are in 
the process of soliciting job requests from different Town Departments for 2013.  Applications for 2013 
participants will be available for pick up next week. 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that she is currently working on processing Meals on Wheels mileage 
reimbursements to the drivers. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Noble reported that MCOA (Montachusett Councils on Aging) have been asking their representatives to 
push the Governor to fund Home Care in the budget.  Right now there is a wait list for Home Care in the 
Montachusett area of approximately 300 people. 
 
Sue Doherty reviewed the monthly status of the current COA budget.  TransCanada will no longer be used to 
subsidize Unitil in the Electric Line.  Direct Energy (currently in the gas line), will now go over to the Electric 
line.  A new vendor, Santa Buckley Energy has been brought on to subsidize National Grid in the gas line.  Any 
funds that remain in the TransCanada line will be added to the Santa Buckley Energy line. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that the Town Manager had released her budget package on January 9 
th .  Last year the 
Council on Aging received a $12k cut.  In FY14 the targeted budget calls for $6900 to be restored to the COA 
budget.  The COA Finance Committee will discuss the upcoming budget further at their meeting this afternoon. 
 
Ms. Noble will be working on a new COA Organizational Chart, which was requested by the board, to be 
presented at a future meeting. 
 
The $5k in donations that was received in July for the COA is in a Gift Account at Town Hall.  Ms. Noble would 
like to use this money to offset the food service at the meal site when MOC Nutrition is not utilized.   
 
The Chairperson of the COA will email the Town Manager, Kerry Speidel, to invite her to the next COA 
meeting to be held on February 12 
th . 
 
Old Business  
1. Capital Plan:  Ms. Noble informed the board that she had two meetings with the Capital Plan 
Committee and there will be no generator included in the FY14 Capital Plan.  The DPW Director needs 
to get an Electrical Contractor in for quotes, which has not been done, and it was decided that the 
Eagle House will not be used as an emergency site because it would cost too much to rehab the 
building to make it suitable. 
 
The purchase of a smaller generator to keep the sprinkler system from tripping when the power goes 
out was discussed.  This will be submitted to the next Capital Plan Request cycle. 
 
DPW had made a request to Capital Plan for funds to install a stairway between the upper and lower 
parking lots at the Eagle House but currently it is on hold.  Ms. Noble is investigating working with 
Monty Tech to have the students do this as a project. 
 
New Business    
1. COA Vote to recommend to Selectmen appointment of Whitney Lacka to Council on Aging:  Jim 
Hays moved to recommend to the Board of Selectmen that Whitney Lacka be appointed to the Council 
on Aging.  Jane Doyle seconded.  All approved, motion carried.  Appointment will be pending results of 
a CORI check.  
 
2. Set Orientation date for new COA Board member pending approval by Selectmen: Ms. Noble will   
    contact  Ms. Lacka to set a date for orientation after she is appointed by the Board of Selectmen.  The      
    COA Chair & Vice Chair will also attend the orientation session. 
 
Sub-Committee Report    
Sub-Committee Meeting: Pete Lincoln moved to accept the Bylaw Sub-committee  minutes of 12/11/12.  Fred 
Crellin seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Barbara Brown informed the board that she will be bringing Bylaw changes to the board for review and 
approval at the February COA meeting. 
 
Correspondence    
Mary Lynn Conrad stated that she had received a note from former COA board member Gloria 
O’Brien . 
===PAGE 3===
 
Ms. Noble received an update from Lunenburg Fire Chief Paul Sullivan on information from the Mass 
Dept. of Public Health regarding Flu information. 
 
The Lunenburg Friendly Seniors sent a donation of $300 to the Eagle House Supporters. 
 
The Lunenburg Cultural Council informed Ms. Noble that $200 has been made available to the senior 
center for a two part music program called “Music Memories for You”. 
 
 
General Discussion   
Ms. Noble mentioned that an antique Victrola had been donated to the senior center by the family of 
Kitty Langille. 
 
Discussion ensued regarding the Eagle Heights project.  This project has been held up waiting for 
funding from Government/State agencies. 
 
The board discussed electing Sub-Committee Chairs at the first meeting of the new fiscal year which 
would be in August.  The COA does not meet in July. 
 
Adjournment                  
Jim  Hays motioned to adjourn the meeting.  Pete Lincoln seconded. All approved, motion carried.       
Meeting Adjourned at 10:31AM.  
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susa Susa Susa Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant n Doherty, Administrative Assistant n Doherty, Administrative Assistant n Doherty, Administrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              