===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes Minutes Approved at 3/12/13 COA Meeting
February 12, 2013
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),
Fred Crellin, Jim Hays, Joyce Wass and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.)
Excused: Deb Seeley, Barbara Brown, Jane Doyle, & Sis Montuori
Guests:
Kerry Speidel (Town Manager), Stephen Raboin (Lunenburg Finance Committee), & Connie O'dea
Welcome
Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:35AM, and introduced Ms. Speidel to the board.
Ms. Speidel spoke to the board regarding the FY14 COA budget. She began by saying that the Town is facing
a deficit going into this year's budget. She had previously given the COA Director a "target" number to work
with for the FY14 COA Budget which included the possible ideas of reopening on Fridays or adding more staff
hours.
She asked COA board members for their input on this matter so she can include it in her FY14 budget
presentation to the Lunenburg Finance Committee
The Director is currently retrieving statistics from the MySenior Center software to aide in the Town Manager's
presentation.
Discussion:
Board members discussed different scenarios on how to extend the hours of the senior center by reopening on
Fridays, staying open later in the evenings in the summer, or opening on Saturdays. Suggestions were made
for new programs such as an evening Horse Shoe league with COA board members volunteering to run this
program.
The Town Manager voiced concerns that the expense comes with keeping the building open for extended
hours. It was determined that staying open later in the winter months was not feasible. This was attempted last
year with the hopes of offering Outreach to the people who are still working, which did not receive as much
participation as hoped for.
It was mentioned that when Representative Benson was last here she informed the board that there were no
grant monies being given to any senior centers in the State. The Town Manager and some of the board
members showed concern about reopening the center on a "short term" basis on Fridays, but other members
felt that it would not be a problem, and that $8k to reopen on Fridays is a small amount out of the Town's
Budget.
Also discussed was how to get more people who are retired to volunteer at the Senior Center. Some thought
that there is a new generation of retiring people who are willing to volunteer and that programs need to be
more fun to attract people and to saturate the media with Eagle House events.
The Director mentioned that there is a "Dine Around" club which the Outreach Coordinator runs, after hours, at
different restaurants, on her own time without compensation and that it has proven to be a very popular
program.
COA Board member Jim Hays, who currently sits as an advisor on the Supporters of the Eagle House Inc.
questioned the possibility of adding the office copy machine and the MySenior Center software maintenance
contracts into the COA budget.
Ms. Speidel requested that the COA decide what it is they want to include in the budget and get back to her
before her meeting with the Finance Committee.
The COA Board thanked the Town Manager for attending today's meeting.
Pete Lincoln requested that the COA Chairperson write an editorial to the Lunenburg Ledger on behalf of the
board thanking the Police, Fire, and DPW departments on a job well done during the recent blizzard.
Minutes: Pete Lincoln mentioned that he believes that there was not a quorum at this meeting to make a
motion on the January 2013 COA minutes. Although the COA board consists of 11 members, there has been
no more than 9 members sitting on the board for the past couple of years.
===PAGE 2===
The Administrative Assistant will check with the Town Clerk for clarification on this matter.
Pete Lincoln asked the Director questions concerning the January 2013 minutes in regards to the Soup &
Sandwich program on Mondays and the generator issue. Ms. Noble replied that the Soup & Sandwich
program is going well, although the Tuesday Hot Dog & Pizza menu is not as popular. There is no news on
the possibility of purchasing a generator for the Eagle House.
Pete Lincoln motioned to approve the January 8, 2013 COA minutes. Joyce Wass seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Director's Report
All Meals on Wheels driver's quarterly stipends have been processed by the Director.
Chief Sullivan of the Lunenburg Fire Department informed the Director that he would like to utilize the Eagle
House as a "warming station" if needed during the recent blizzard. Ms. Noble and Ms. Doherty remained "on
call" over the weekend in case the building needed to be used for that purpose.
The food program at the Senior Center is going well although there are mixed results on the Tuesday offering
of Hot Dogs & Pizza. Participants are also able to order a MOC Nutrition meal that day if they so choose.
There is an employee of the Eagle House who will be going out on an extended sick leave absence. Currently
staff members are able to perform other duties within the center, but someone will need to be brought in for
office coverage considering the length of the sick leave.
Old Business
1. Town Finance Committee Meeting: Ms. Noble stated that she was not sure when the COA will be called
to the Lunenburg Finance Committee, but would like some members of the COA board to attend it with her
when she is called.
2. 2014 Budget: Discussed earlier with the Town Manager
New Business
1. Regional COA Board Trainings: Ms. Noble informed the COA board that the Executive Office of Elder
Affairs will be conducting COA Board Trainings for new board members in Natick and Webster. After
discussing Board Training sessions, it was decided to conduct these "in house" with the Director and the
Chairperson.
2. Sample Board Agreement: Ms. Noble distributed copies of "Council on Aging Services for Seniors" Board
Agreement for board members to review for discussion at a later meeting.
Sub-Committee Report
Fred Crellin distributed copies of the 1/15/13 COA Finance Committee Meeting Minutes for board members to
review to be voted on at the next COA meeting.
Correspondence
The Golden Living Center located in Fitchburg sent a flyer for posting advertising 99 Cent Breakfast to be held
on March 26* at 7:30AM.
General Discussion
Mr. Lincoln suggested that the COA Director make the decision on whether or not to reopen on Fridays,
provide more Outreach hours, or provide transportation on Fridays. Ms. Conrad & Mr. Crellin agreed with Mr.
Lincoln's suggestion. A report will be compiled based upon statistics as to what the best option would be and
distributed to the COA board at a later date.
Adjournment
Meeting Adjourned at 10:55AM.
===PAGE 3===
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant
Lunenburg Council on Aging
........
