===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
(Admin. Asst.)
Excused: Sis Montouri & Fred Crellin
Guest: Stephen Raboin (Lunenburg Finance Committee)
Welcome: Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:30AM and welcomed all in attendance.
Ms. Conrad informed the board that COA member Jim Hays had tendered his resignation and read his
resignation letter to the members.
Ms. Conrad questioned Mr. Lincoln on the plans to set up a recreation area behind the senior center.
Mr. Lincoln replied that due to a lack of funding, they were unable to do this. He mentioned that he and
his wife had contributed funds last year to help keep the senior center open on Fridays, and that it did
not happen.
Ms. Conrad went on to review the FY13 events of the COA which included kitchen equipment
replacement, Meal Site Serve Safe certification requirements, stairway progress between the upper and
lower parking lots, and the need to fill four vacant spots on the COA board.
Ms. Conrad asked Ms. Noble for an update on the Clinton Youth COA group which was discussed at a
previous meeting
Ms. Noble replied that she had spoken to the Director of the Clinton COA and the students could come
to Lunenburg to give a presentation on their group in either September or October.
Minutes: Ms. Doyle moved to approve the May 13, 2013 COA minutes. Ms. Brown seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 8 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Lincoln questioned Ms. Doherty on the change of protocol with the minutes, especially the use of
proper titles and surnames.
Ms. Doherty replied that she has been the Selectmen's Minute Recorder since March of last year and
decided that she would record the COA minutes, the same as the Selectmen's, because it is a cleaner
and more professional way to do so.
Director's Report
1.Finance/Informational Report : None
Ms. Noble reported on the following:
Meal Site worker Joanne Brazell has passed her Serve Safe Certification course and Ruth Swiecicki
will be renewing hers next spring.
Ms. Noble will be increasing the Meal Site workers hours by 1 hour each day next fiscal year.
The food service program offering the soup & sandwiches on Mondays has been very successful. The
salad bar on Thursdays is also extremely popular. The MOC cold meal alternative and regular MOC
===PAGE 2===
some of the clients in attendance were being rude to another participant and that she could come back
to do a "Bullying" program sometime in the future.
A "Code of Conduct" was developed by researching other senior centers and pulling sections from
them. All program participants were asked to review, sign, and return the Code of Conduct to the office
to be kept on file at the senior center.
One of the out of town clients became incensed when she was asked to sign the document and refused
to do so. After Ms. Noble spoke to her in the office and explained the reasoning for this, she
apologized and signed the document.
COA board members were asked to review the "Code of Conduct" and make changes to be voted on at
the next COA meeting.
Ms. Noble was appointed by the Selectmen to serve on the Memorial Day Committee. There were over
120 people in attendance at the Memorial Day Service/Collation. It is her desire not to be placed on
this committee next year but the Eagle House will still be offered as a venue for the collation for this
The Board of Selectmen had requested that a member of the COA sit on the newly developed Building
Reuse Committee. This Committee will be charged with looking at empty Town buildings and deciding
what the best option would be for them whether it be sold, torn down, rented, or have other Town
departments move into them. Ms. Noble recommended that Deb Seeley be the COA representative to
this committee.
Ms. Seeley stated that she formerly served on the Planning Board, Finance Committee and the Center
Reuse Commission. She feels that the senior population needs representation and will serve on the
Building Reuse Committee.
Ms. Doyle moved to recommend Ms. Seeley as the COA representative to the Lunenburg Building Re-
Use Committee. Ms. O'dea seconded. On vote, motion carried, 8 in favor, 0 opposed.
The Eagle Heights project at the old primary school is still looking for funding. Federal funding is no
longer available for this project and they are now looking for State funding for the project.
The MART (Montachusett Regional Transit Authority) Representative from Lunenburg has stepped
down and the Town Manager requested that a member of the COA take his place. This will be
discussed again at the August COA meeting.
Old Business
1. COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition Ceremony: The date for the COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition
Ceremony will be held on the first Tuesday in August which will be 8/6/13. The Fire Department has
agreed to cook the food and the Eagle House Supporters Inc. will pay for the food. COA members
were asked to volunteer and both Meal Site workers will be on duty this day.
New Business
1. Election of Officers Chairman/Vice Chairman for FY14: Mr. Lincoln moved to elect Mary Lynn
Conrad as COA Chairman and Barbara Brown as COA Vice Chairman for a 1 year term beginning on
July 1, 2013. Ms. Doyle seconded. On vote, motion carried 8 in favor, 0 opposed.
===PAGE 3===
MIS.
seconded. On vote, motion carried, 8 in favor, 0 opposed.
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes - Finance, Board Development, Advocacy, ByLaw, Director's
Evaluation
1. Vote to Accept all COA end of year sub-committee reports: End of year reports were submitted
& read to the board by the Board Development, Finance, and ByLaw Committees. (see attached)
Ms. Doyle moved to accept the end of year reports from the Board Development, Finance, & ByLaw
Committees. Ms. Brown seconded. On vote, motion carried, 8 in favor, 0 opposed.
No Advocacy Committee or Director's Evaluation reports were given.
Correspondence
A letter from the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors was read requesting the use of the Eagle House for their
Fall Fair on October 19, 2013 from 8AM-4PM.
Mr. Lincoln moved to approve the request of the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors building use on October
19, 2013 from 8AM-4PM. Ms. Seeley seconded. On vote, motion carried, 8 in favor, 0 opposed.
General Discussion
Ms. Conrad spoke to thank the COA members who were leaving; Pete Lincoln, Fred Crellin, & Sis
Montouri. She read poems that she had written for each member to the board.
She also thanked the entire COA board for a wonderful year and she looks forward to FY14.
Adjournment
Ms. Doyle moved to adjourn the COA meeting.
favor 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 10:50AM
Ms. Brown seconded. On vote motion carried, 8 in
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant
Lunenburg Council on Aging
===PAGE 4===
total.
Ms. Whitney Lacka of Reservoir Road
Mrs. Connie O'Dea of Pratt Street.
Therefore, we will conclude the year with a plenary membership of the COA.
It should however be noted, that three of the current members have reached the end of
two three year terms, and two of those have indicated that they are not likely to be
requesting a waiver of the town term limits requirement. It would behoove the
membership at large to continue to enlist interested and capable parties into the COA fold
for the upcoming year.
The Board Development Committee recommends the following slate of officers for the
2013-2014 year.
Mary Lynn Conrad, Chairperson
Barbara Brown, Vice Chairperson
Respectfully submitted,
Jim Hays
Sis Montuori
Pete Lincoln, Chairman
===PAGE 5===
The COA Finance Committee met this year in December and January. We discussed the
responsibilities of the committee (p. 4 of the by-laws). Doreen Noble presented the
committee with a copy of the FY14 Budget Instructions. She had been asked to prepare
two budgets: a Target budget (level funded plus contractual salary increases) and an
Above Target budget (level service). We discussed the two budgets. Members of the
committee suggested that the Target budget add $100 to the line item for office
equipment maintenance, and that $100 be subtracted from the sewer line item. It was
also suggested that the Above Target budget add $250 for programs, $400 for training
and $180 for office equipment maintenance.
Respectfully submitted,
Deb Seeley
Jane Doyle
Jim Hayes
Fred Crellin, Chairman
===PAGE 6===
Brown in attendance. The board members received the proposed changes on 1-15-13. Members
reviewed these changes and presented corrections and additions at the February meeting. Barbara
Brown made all the corrections and the Board voted approval on 3-12-13. The Administrative Assistant
made all necessary changes and presented a new set of By-Laws to all Board Members on 5-14-13. See
attached copy.
Respectfully Submitted
Barbara Brown
Barbara Brown
Chairman
===PAGE 7===
COA voted approval on 3-12-13 of the following changes:
#1. Article IV - Membership
CHANGE
Section 11: Relationship of Membership and staff
In the heading, CHANGE THE S IN STAFF TO A CAPITAL S.
Section 12: Non-COA Members
CHANGE
Line 2 - Friends of the Eagle House Inc., to read - Eagle House Supporters Inc.,
#2. Article V - Meetings
Section 4: Open Meeting Law -change to Agenda Posting
ADD
Line 2 After Massachusetts General Laws G.L, c30A,SS18-25 as tollows:
Requirements for posting notice of meetings: Except in cases of emergency, a
public body must provide the public with notice of its meeting 48 hours in
advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. Notice of emergency
meetings must be posted as soon as reasonably possible prior to the meeting.
Also note that others laws, such as those governing procedures of public hearings,
may require additional notice.
Information required to appear in notice: Meeting notices must be posted in a
legible, easily understandable format; contain date, time and place of the
===PAGE 8===
up after posting-but before the meeting convenes.
F.Y.I.
Information obtained from Open Meeting Law Guide Version 2-10-12. Use this
version for any other questions.
#3. Article VIII - Committees
Section 1: Committees
RETYPE ENTIRE SECTION 1
Section 1: General Considerations - Each member shall serve on at least one
standing committee, as described in Section 2, below. All committees shall be
formed and a Chairperson designated for each committee at the first meeting of
the COA in the New Fiscal (August Meeting). Each Chairperson will be responsible
for posting and conducting each meeting in compliance will the provisions of
Chapter 39, Section 23B, of the Massachusetts General Laws. (See Article V-
Section 4 of these By-Laws). All Chairpersons are responsible for submitting all
meeting minutes and agendas to the Administrative Assistant. Prior to the first
meeting of the New Fiscal Year, the Outgoing Chairperson shall be responsible for
all activities of their specific committees.
Section 2: Standing Committee
RETYPE
===PAGE 9===
2. Present recommendation of BY-Law changes to COA Members for
review (acceptance of changes are to be voted on at the next COA meeting).
ADD
3. Request approval of all new By-Law changes that were presented at
previous meeting.
CHANGE
#3 TO #4 to read as follows-Complete "By Law Change Form " and
present them to the Administrative Assistant for typing and present each C.O.A.
member with a new copy of the By-Laws.
signed Barbara Brown
Chairperson of COA By-Law Committee
===PAGE 10===
By-Laws
Revised 5/2013
===PAGE 11===
ARTICLE I - MISSION/PURPOSE
The Mission of the Lunenburg Council on Aging is to advocate for improved quality of life for all seniors
through supportive services, programs and education.
ARTICLE HI - OFFICE
The principle office shall be located at the Eagle House Senior Center, 25 Memorial Drive, Lunenburg.
Massachusetts.
ARTICLE IV - MEMBERSHIP
Section 1: Number of Members - The COA shall consist of eleven (11) voting members who shall be
appointed by the Board of Selectmen from the registered voters of the Town of Lunenburg. (See attached job
description)
Section 2: Term of Appointment - Terms shall be for three years or, in the case of a vacancy, any portion of
an unexpired term.
Section 3: Term Limits - Length of time to be served shall be in keeping with the Term Limits Policy as
adopted by the COA. This policy may be waived by vote of the COA.
TERM LIMITING POLICY: Council on Aging members appointed by the Board of Selectmen shall
not serve more than two terms in succession, plus any portion of an unfilled term, effective with the
completion of current terms. In this instance, a member who has already served for two terms will not
be eligible for reappointment at the completion of that member's present term. There shall be at least
one-year hiatus prior to reappointment after the second three-year term is served.
Section 4: Composition of Membership - Members shall reflect the makeup of the community at large and
shall be composed of at least 51 percent of persons sixty years of age and over.
Section 5: Office Holding Rights - All members of the Council on Aging are eligible to serve as officers.
Section 6: Voting Power - All members shall have the same right to vote on all issues.
Section 7: Resignation - Members appointed by the Board of Selectmen shall resign in writing to both the
Board of Selectmen and the COA.
Section 8: Attendance - Regular attendance is expected of all members. In the event of absence for three
consecutive meetings, except for reasons of health or extenuating circumstances as duly reported to the Chair in
advance of a meeting, the COA may request resignation of that member through the appointing authority.
1
===PAGE 12===
Section 12: Non-COA Members - Non-COA persons may be appointed as representatives to such.
organizations or boards as the Supporters of the Eagle House Inc., Pearl Brook Housing Tenants Association,
Lunenburg Housing Authority, or other similar groups. These members will be allowed to participate in COA
meetings without voting rights or the right to hold office.
Section 13: Honorary Member - On the recommendation of the Board Development Committee and accepted
by the Board, individuals who have contributed their time and outstanding services to the COA may be selected
at the annual meeting in June to serve as honorary members of the COA. These individuals may attend
meetings and be allowed to participate in the COA meetings without voting rights or the right to hold office.
ARTICLE V - MEETINGS
Section 1: Regular Meetings - Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month. If a
regular meeting is postponed, for any reason, that meeting will be held on the following Tuesday.
Section 2: Special Meetings - Special Meetings may be called at any time by the Chair or by the majority of
the COA.
Section 3: Annual Meeting - The annual meeting shall be held at the regularly scheduled meeting in the month
of June for the purpose of electing officers and the presentation of an annual report of the Chairman, Director,
and committees as specified by the Chairman.
Section 4: Agenda Posting. - All meetings shall be posted and conducted in compliance with the provisions of
the Chapter 39, Section 23B, of the Massachusetts General Laws. "Except in cases of emergency, a notice of
every meeting of any government body shall be filed with the clerk of the city or town in which the body acts,
and the notice or a copy thereof shall, at least forty-eight hours, including Saturdays but not Sundays and legal
holidays, prior to such meeting, be publicly posted in the office of such clerk or on the principal official bulletin
board of such city or town."
Section 5: Quorum - The presence of a simple majority of the total membership shall be necessary and
sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Votes shall be cast only by members in
attendance.
Section 6: Conduct of Meetings - All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of
Order.
ARTICLE VI - OFFICERS
Section 1: Officers - The officers shall consist of a CHAIR and VICE CHAIR elected by the members.
2
===PAGE 13===
Section 5: Duties of Officers -
(a) CHAIR - The Chair shall be the chief executive officer and, subject to the
direction of the COA, shall have charge of business affairs and property. The
Chair shall prepare an agenda for meetings in conjunction with the Director,
preside at meetings, nominate all committees, orient new members with the
Director, and be an ex-officio member of all committees. The Chairman or
designee shall ensure that each member be provided a copy of the so-called
Open Meeting Law as required by state statutes.
(b) VICE CHAIR - During the absence or disability of the Chair, the Vice Chair shall exercise all the
functions of the Chair and, when so acting, shall have all the powers and be subject to all the
restrictions of the Chair.
ARTICLE VII - STAFE
Section 1: Employment - The COA may appoint such clerks and other employees as it may require, with the
approval of the Town Manager and the ratification of the Board of Selectmen.
Section 2: Selection - The Director is authorized to screen and recommend appointment of staff candidates to
the COA for final recommendation to the Town Manager and the Board of Selectmen.
Section 3: Vacancies - Vacancies shall be filled in accordance with municipal practices and procedures.
ARTICLE VIlI - COMMITTEES
Section 1: General Considerations — Each member shall serve on at least one standing committee, as
described in Section 2, below. All committees shall be formed and a Chairperson designated for each
committee at the first meeting of the COA in the new fiscal year (August Meeting). Each Chairperson will be
responsible for posting and conducting each meeting in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 39, Section
23B, of the Massachusetts General Laws. (See Article V-Section 4 of these By-Laws.) All Chairpersons are
responsible for submitting all Agendas and Meeting Minutes to the COA Administrative Assistant. Prior to the
first meeting of the new fiscal year, the outgoing Chairperson shall be responsible for all activities of their
specific committees.
Section 2: Standing Committees - Standing Committees shall consist of ADVOCACY, BOARD
DEVELOPMENT, FINANCE, DIRECTOR'S EVALUATION and BY-LAW.
(a) BOARD DEVELOPMENT - Responsibility to include:
1. Recruitment of new Board members.
===PAGE 14===
4. Participate in budget hearings before town authorities.
(c) DIRECTOR'S EVALUATION - Responsibility to include:
Conduct a yearly evaluation of the performance of the Director. A summary of the results of
such an evaluation will be given to the Director and COA members and forwarded to the
Town Manager.
(d) BY-LAW - Responsibility to include:
1. Yearly review of the By-Laws.
2. Present recommendation of By-Law changes to the COA members for review (acceptance of
changes are to be voted on at the next COA meeting)
3. Request approval of all new By-Law changes that were presented at previous meeting.
4. Complete "By-Law Change Form" and present it to the COA Administrative Assistant for
typing and present each COA member with a new copy of the By-Laws.
(e) ADVOCACY - Responsibility to include:
1. Educate decision makers about what we do and can do for elders by raising
public awareness.
2. Actively support any elder issues.
3. Uphold the tenets of the Council on Aging Mission Statement.
4. Actively meet with other organizations, departments, and agencies in
promoting the mission statement.
Section 3: Other Committees - The COA may vote to establish other standing, ad-hoc or special committees
to address issues of importance as they may arise.
Section 4: Liaisons - Representatives of community or area organizations may be selected by the COA to serve
on an annual basis and to report as necessary to the COA board.
ARTICLE IX - AMENDMENTS
Amendments or alterations of these By-Laws may be considered at either a regular or special meeting. In either
case, notification of the meeting and its purpose shall be given at least 14 days prior to the assembly. The
notice shall include a summary of the proposed action, the full text of the proposed amendment or alteration,
and a statement of the purpose of the proposed change. The proposed amendment must be approved by
majority vote and will take effect immediately, unless otherwise so noted.
ARTICLE X - OTHER PROVISIONS
Section 1: Establishment of Policy or Procedures - The COA may establish policy or procedure according
to the following guidelines:
4
===PAGE 15===
ARTICLE XI - EFFECTIVE DATE
The effective date of these By-Laws shall be the date on which the By-Laws were approved by an affirmative
vote of no fewer than two-thirds of the members present and shall replace any by-laws previously adopted.
These 1y Laws were approved on Its 14.
Whutiny, Vicha
8.932
Joy're bases
olesaberteR Montessi
Have tayle
3.
eral y declly
Janu Way -
Revised May 2013
===PAGE 16===
the board accepts the responsibility for the major long term decisions affecting the
Council on Aging and the operation of the Eagle House Senior Center.
Specific Functions and Responsibilities 1o:
1. Advocate for elders.
2. Collaborate with the Director in order to promote and support all programs
which will enhance the life of elders in the community.
3. Cooperate with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and be alvare of State and
Federal regulations concerning funding information, exchanges, and program
planning which exist in the elder network.
4. Educate and enlist community support and participation of all citizens
concerning the needs of the elderly.
5. Attend an orientation session as a new Board member and participate in
ongoing orientation sessions as part of regular Board meetings.
6. Attend required meeting; prolonged or unexcused absences could result in
removal from the Board.
1. Attend area, regional or state programs and sessions which provide information
and education on elder issues whenever possible.
8. Serve on at least one committee as assigned by the Chairman.
9. Make no written or oral representations for the Council, except as authorized
by Council vote.
10. Make no requests of staft or assign duties to staff.
11. Assist in the recruitment of new Board members.
12. Attend Annual Town Meeting sessions as a representative of the Council on
Aging whenever possible.
