===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                             
Minutes Approved at the 10/8/13 COA Meeting 
September 10, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara B rown (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble 
(Director), Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass, Deb Seeley, Whi tney Lacka, Connie O’Dea, and Sue Doherty 
(Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:  Lloyd Carlson (Supporters of Eagle House),Tony Bertone & Shirley Bertone, (Perspective COA 
Board Members),  
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 10:30AM.  She welcomed and introduced 
all in attendance.  
 
Minutes:  Ms. Doyle noted to correct a name in the August 2 013 minutes to read – Brook Hansel 
instead of Hannah Brooks.  Ms. Doyle mentioned that Ms. Hansel was interested in Community Service 
work at the center and said that she had many ambitious friends that could also help out. 
Ms. Noble spoke to say that there was a mix up with  the original meeting time which was set up with 
Ms. Hansel.  She went on to say that MS .Hansel has  no driver’s license or school I.D. which makes it 
difficult to CORI check and that it would be diffic ult for her to directly supervise a minor.  Ms. Nob le will 
contact Ms. Hansel again to see what other interests she may have that would work  
Ms. Doyle moved to approve the August 13, 2013 minu tes, with correction.  Ms. Wass seconded.  On 
vote, motion carried, 7 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
Ms. Noble mentioned that the Youth COA program has been put on hold due to the fact that the 
Director of the COA in Clinton has gone on to another place of employment. 
  
Director's Report    
1. Finance/Informational Report:   
The Executive Office of Elder Affairs will add the Eagle House Senior Center to their list of COA Boar d 
Training sites on November 6, 2013.  There will need to be at least 4 other COA’s in attendance for this 
seminar to be held. 
 
The Town Clerk’s office has been very diligent with reminding boards and committees within Lunenburg 
about taking the Conflict of Interest test.  The Ea gle House Outreach Coordinator has completed and 
returned hers to their office. 
 
Ms. Noble informed the COA board that she will be a ttending the Executive Office of Elder Affairs 
Annual Conference from October 1 
st  through October 3 rd .  She will also be out of the office on October 
8th  for carpel tunnel surgery. 
 
Ms. Noble is currently working on the Executive Off ice of Elder Affairs Annual report.  She will have 
copies available for the COA to review when finished. 
 
The Outreach hours at the Eagle House have been inc reased to 24 hours per week with approval from 
the Town Manager.  New hours will be Tues.-Thurs. 8 AM-4PM.  This will make the Outreach position 
eligible for benefits.   
Funding of the extra hours will be made possible th rough an increase in the Formula Grant. Formula 
Grant funding comes from the State and is based on how many senior citizens are in a community.  
===PAGE 2===
Currently Lunenburg’s population is made up of 37% over the age of 60, which is a significant increase  
from prior years. 
 
Kitchen staff hours will be increased from 2-4 hour s per week due to the extra time that is required i n 
preparing special non-MOC meals such as the salad bar and Monday’s soup & sandwich.   
A new breakfast program will be in effect at the Ea gle House beginning on October 1, 2013.  This is a 
MOC Nutrition sponsored program and the suggested donation cost will be $2.25 - $3.00. 
A new kitchen staff person will be advertised for a t the senior center.  Ms. Noble stated that the per son 
will not need to be Serve Safe Certified due to the  fact that there are already 3 employees who have 
completed that course.  She stressed the fact that the only time a paid kitchen staff worker will need  to 
be certified by that program is if he/she will be serving/preparing a non-MOC meal. 
 
The DPW has trimmed back the apple tree behind the Eagle House and have cut back the overgrowth 
in the back area.  This is all to aid in the prepar ation for the Bocci Court project which volunteers have 
offered to install behind the Eagle House. 
 
Capital Plan requests have been sent to all Town bo ards and Ms. Noble will submit approximately 
$10,000 for replacement of carpets and floor tiles at the Eagle House along with the possibility of 
installing a stairway between the upper and lower parking lots. 
 
Mah Jong has been added to the list of events at th e Eagle House and is played on Thursdays from 
9AM-3PM. 
 
Ms. Noble discussed with the board how the awarding  of the Boston Post Cane Criteria was developed 
in 1998.  It states that the recipient must be an a ctive member of the community as well as a resident  
for 25 years.  She asked the board if they might wa nt to change that criteria to perhaps read “15” yea rs 
and omit the active member of the community segment. 
Discussion ensued among the board members which resulted in they would like to leave the criteria the 
same without too much emphasis on “active member of the community”.  
 
Old Business  
1. Recreation Area behind Eagle House: Lunenburg resident Dave MacDonald has been spear 
heading the Bocci Court project behind the Eagle Ho use.  Ms. Noble reported that the Town Manager 
has informed her that approximately $4999.00 can be encumbered to aid with this project.   
Ms. Doherty will contact him to see where the timeline of this project stands. 
 
Ms. O’Dea questioned what the outcome of asking Mon ty Tech Regional High School to install stairs 
between the upper and lower lots was. 
Ms. Noble replied that Monty Tech informed her that  this project would not be placed on their list of 
requests until the year 2016. 
 
2. Building Re-Use Committee:  Ms. Seeley reported that she has attended two meeti ngs for this 
committee and that their goal is to identify potent ial reuse of the Passios School building, whether i t be 
renovation or demolition.  The Board of Selectmen i s concerned with another empty building in the 
Town and has charged this committee with researchin g the best way to utilize that building whether it 
be moving Town Offices into it, rental property or tear down.  The cost to tear down that building wou ld 
be approximately $750,000.  It had been mentioned a t a Board of Selectmen meeting that perhaps the 
Eagle House could move to that building but after d iscussion all are in agreement that this should not  
happen.  This Building Re-Use Committee would like feedback from the COA on this matter. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
New Business   
1. Recommendation New COA Board Members to Board of Selectmen: 
Ms. Doyle moved to recommend to the Board of Select men the appointment of Tony Bertone, Shirley 
Bertone, and Judith Tarbell to the Council on Aging  Board.  Ms. Seeley seconded.  On vote, motion 
carried, 7 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
2. Boston Post Cane: Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, ByLaw, Director’s 
Evaluation 
1. Reorganize Sub-Committees: COA Board members discussed the reorganization of C OA 
Subcommittees to be as follows: 
Advocacy:   Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass, & Whitney Lacka 
Finance: Deb Seely, & Connie O’Dea 
Board Development: Joyce Wass, Connie O’Dea 
ByLaw: Barbara Brown & Whitney Lacka 
Director’s Evaluation:  Deb Seeley, Jane Doyle, & Barbara Brown 
 
If the new COA candidates are approved by the BOS, they will all be placed on subcommittees at the 
October meeting. 
 
Discussion ensued concerning the Director’s Evaluat ion Committee.  Board members felt it was not 
necessary to do an evaluation on a yearly basis but  would like to incorporate Director’s goals into th e 
evaluation in some way. 
 
Subcommittees discussed setting meeting dates as follows: 
Director’s Evaluation – October 8 
th  at 9:30AM 
Advocacy – October 1 st  at 9:30AM 
Finance – October 8 th  at 11:45AM 
 
Agendas will be sent to the Town Clerk for posting. 
 
Correspondence : A request from Montachusett Home Care was read as king for a volunteer to sit on 
their Board of Directors. 
 
General Discussion: Ms. Seeley requested information for viewing the C OA newsletter online.  Ms. 
Doherty will contact the publisher, Liturgical Press, for that information. 
 
Adjournment    
Ms. Doyle moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. La cka seconded.  On vote motion carried, 7 in 
favor 0 opposed. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:55AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant    
Lunenburg Lunenburg Lunenburg Lunenburg COA COA COA COA  
 
               
===PAGE 4===
 
 
    
    