===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Meeting Minutes
November 18, 2014
Minutes Approved at 12/16/14 COA Meeting
CALL TO ORDER: Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:32AM.
Present: Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Deb Seeley (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Judy Tarbell,
Debbie Lincoln, Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, Cheryl Moisan,
Brian Guenard & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.)
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mr. Lincoln thanked Ms. Doherty for setting up and working the Veteran's Day reception
at the senior center on 11/11/2014.
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. Seeley moved to accept the October 14, 2014 Council on Aging (COA) minutes.
Ms. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. COA General Orientation/Discussion: Not discussed
2. New COA Member, Brian Guenard: Mr. Lincoln welcomed new COA Board member Brian Guenard. All
COA board members introduced themselves to him.
3. COA Appointment/Re-Appointment Process: Mr. Lincoln discussed the COA appointment/reappointment
with the board as follows:
• All people interested in appointment to a board or committee need to submit a talent bank
form
• Currently there are 2 talent bank forms at Town Hall from people interested in the COA
• The Board of Selectmen (BOS) have a new procedure for reappointments to boards and
committees which has caused confusion
• All terms are for a period of 3 years and incumbents will receive a reappointment form prior
to the end of their term to be filled out if they wish to be reappointed
• Board members will not need to be re-interviewed by the BOS if they opt for reappointment
• The BOS has determined that that the COA board members terms will be as follows:
Term end 2015 - Deb Lincoln, Betty DiGiacomo, & Brian Guenard
Term end 2016 - Deb Seeley, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Judy Tarbell, & Pete Lincoln
Term end 2017 - Cheryl Moisan, Sarah Grant, Kevin McNally, & Diane Nowd
4. Director's Certification: Ms. Seeley moved to waive the requirement in the Director's job description which
states that the Director needs to be certified. Ms. Lincoln seconded
After due diligent discussion among the board members it was determined that certification would only benefit
an applicant with less experience and that an applicant that has numerous years of experience in the job
should not be required to be certified
On vote, motion carried unanimously.
5. Bus Trips: Ms. Noble explained to the board on how the senior bus trips have operated in the past which
was that they were not affiliated with the COA but bus trip coordinators could keep flyers of their upcoming trips
at the senior center. Other trip coordinators are allowed space at the center, depending on space availability.
Recently Ms. Noble had been contacted by individuals from the Lunenburg, Clinton & Lancaster COA's with
===PAGE 2===
their individual concerns about how the current Lunenburg trip coordinator was representing the trips she was
running. The current trip coordinator was also observed removing all other information from other coordinators
from the designated area and leaving only her own. Ms. Noble sent a letter to the trip coordinator informing
her of the following:
• She must cease and desist representing her trips as being run by the Town of Lunenburg, COA or
Eagle House Senior Center
• All further postings of her trips have been suspended
All material she had taken to the senior center must be returned and she shall not disrupt anyone else's
information again
Ms. Noble informed the board that her decision to take this action was based upon that if any other vendor
such as an Assisted Living or Health Care facility had come into the senior center and disposed of a
competitor's information, they would have suffered the same result and that it is an unethical business practice
to do so.
Mr. Lincoln commented to say that he had been approached by a member of the Supporters of the Eagle
House Inc. who was bothered by the actions taken by the Director concerning this issue. Mr. Lincoln went on
record to say that he supports the actions taken by Ms. Noble 110%.
At this time Ms. Moisan took the opportunity to inquire about using the senior van for a Quilting Bus Trip.
Ms. Noble responded that this would only be possible after senior center operating hours and only if one of the
van drivers was willing to come in after hours to do so.
6. Director's Report: Ms. Noble reported on the following:
Ms. Noble had attended some of the Dine Around Clubs functions in Ms. Anderson's absence and has
observed inappropriate behavior by some of the participants at the events. After research of the attendance
lists it was found that only half of the participants actually are Lunenburg residents/regular clients of the senior
center and she believes that the behavior that has been exhibited at the functions which she has attended
such as intoxication, could be a liability to the Town and that this activity should be relooked at as part of our
programming. Ms. Noble has cancelled all further Dine Around activities until further notice.
The Outreach Coordinator is still recovering from major surgery and as a result her medical leave has been
extended by the Town. Ms. Noble will contact the Town Manager regarding extending the temporary Outreach
Coordinator's time.
New tile flooring/carpeting has been installed at the Eagle House. This was all part of the FY2015 Capital Plan
process.
The Lunenburg Finance Committee held a "Meet & Greet" with department heads. It appears that they will be
requesting that the Town Manager have next year's budget prepared by the end of January. Ms. Noble is
hoping that funding could be made available to the COA to hire another "All Purpose" staff person but she feels
the biggest need at this time is hiring another Meal Site Coordinator.
The Lunenburg Property Tax Work-off Program has come to end for this year. There were 12 people who
participated and they will be receiving anywhere between $750-$1000 deducted off of their property tax bill.
This program will begin again in January of 2015.
Ms. Noble will be participating in a 40 hour certification class focused on Mental Health and Drug Abuse with
the Elderly.
The Senior Center will be holding a Holiday Open House on Tuesday December 16* from 2-4PM.
There has been a recent problem at the senior center with "Annoying Phone Calls". The Police Dept. has been
notified and the telephone company has installed a temporary trace on the line.
===PAGE 3===
7. Task Groups (suggestions): Board members discussed the roles of individual task groups as follows and
members volunteered to participate as needed:
• Advocacy - Advocacy group deals with elder issues within Lunenburg
• Communication - Communication group should deal with how the staff, board members and
senior center participants communicate amongst each other.
• Public Relations - Although the office staff does a good job promoting programs at the senior
center, further investigation should be done on how to reach a broader audience.
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: Mr. Lincoln read a Congressional update notice from Congresswoman Niki
Tsongas.
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Seeley informed the board that she is still a member of the Building
Committee and updated the board on that committee's activities. She assured the board that the Eagle House
Senior Center has been taken off of their list as a potential move to the Passios building.
PUBLIC COMMENT None
ADJOURNMENT
Being no further business, Mr. Guenard moved to adjourn the COA meeting. Ms. Tarbell seconded.
On vote, motion carried unanimously
Meeting adjourned at 11:00AM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
December 9, 2014
Respectfully Submitted
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant
Lanenburg Council on Aging
