===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                        
Minutes Approved at the 8/12/14 COA Meeting  
Meeting Minutes                  
July 8, 2014  
 
CALL TO ORDER:   
Kathryn M. Herrick, Town Clerk 
It was not necessary for Ms. Herrick to attend this  meeting.  The Board of Selectmen temporarily exten ded appointments 
to outgoing COA board members Barbara Brown & Joyce  Wass in order for the COA (Council on Aging) to ac hieve a 
quorum for the purpose of nominating officers. 
Ms. Brown, Vice Chair, opened the meeting at 9:30AM . 
 
Present:   Barbara Brown (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (D irector), Joyce Wass, Connie O’Dea, Judy Tarbell,  
Deb Seeley, Debbie Lincoln & Sue Doherty (Admin. As st.)  
 
Guest:  Kerry Speidel, Town Manager 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  None 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  A motion was made and seconded to accept the June  10, 2014 COA minutes.  
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
A motion was made and seconded to accept the May 28 , 2014 COA Board Development Committee minutes. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
Discussion/Vote for slate of COA Officers: Ms. Brown mentioned that Susan Andrews, who was rec ommended to the 
BOS for appointment by the COA, has withdrawn her n ame from consideration and therefore a new slate of  COA board 
members/officers has been developed for submission to the BOS for approval as follows: 
Officers 
Chairperson – Peter Lincoln 
Vice Chairperson – Deb Seeley 
Board Members 
Jennifer Peters Ayers 
Betty DiGiacomo 
Sarah Grant 
Caroline Griffis 
Deb Lincoln 
Kevin McNally 
Cheryl Moison 
Diane Nowd 
Judy Tarbell 
 
Ms. Seeley asked Ms. Speidel for clarification on w hether or not Pete Lincoln had been appointed by th e BOS to the 
Council on Aging at a previous BOS meeting.   
Ms. Speidel replied no he had not been appointed an d that the BOS is hoping to have some of the appoin tments to the 
COA made at next week’s BOS meeting. 
It was also noted that included in the Board Develo pment’s recommended slate of board members/officers  to be 
appointed are Deb Seeley, Deb Lincoln, and Judy Tar bell.  These members have already been appointed by the BOS.  
 
A motion was made and seconded to recommend to the Board of Selectmen approval of the revised slate of  COA board 
members/officer appointments as presented.  On vote , motion carried unanimously. 
 
Director's Report :  No report 
 
Resignation COA Board members Tony & Shirley Berton e:  Ms. Noble had received a letter or resignation from  Tony 
& Shirley Bertone which has been forwarded to the T own Manager’s office. 
Ms. Speidel confirmed that she is in possession of this letter. 
===PAGE 2===
 
At this time Ms. O’Dea stated that she will be movi ng out of town and would be resigning from the COA board as of 
September 1, 2014. 
 
Discussion:  Board members discussed sending a note  of thanks to Tony & Shirley Bertone.  They also ac knowledged 
Barbara Brown, Judy Tarbell, Joyce Wass, and Connie  O’Dea for their efforts on the Board Development Committee. 
Ms. Lincoln would like to spear head a special publ ic recognition for outgoing COA board members to be  held at the 
8/19/2014 COA Volunteer Recognition Ceremony/Cookou t.  
 
At the June 10, 2014 Annual COA Meeting the Board D evelopment Committee had submitted their FY14 End o f Year 
Report. Ms. Brown has revised that report to reflect the following: 
•  Additional information on a meeting was added whic h was held on 11/12/2013  
•  Information regarding how the Board Development Co mmittee made their determinations for potential boa rd 
members and why this committee made the decisions that they did  
•  BOS (Board of Selectmen) decision to extend COA ap pointments in order to conduct unfinished business 
The COA board members discussed making further gram matical changes to the report.  Ms. Brown will make  the changes 
and submit again to the board before the next COA m eeting.    
A motion was made and seconded to approve the revis ed FY14 End of Year Board Development report as pre sented.  On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
Discussion/Vote to recommend to Selectmen Appointme nt of new COA Board Members: Discussed under item #1 
of Current Business. 
 
Set August Agenda:  Board members discussed the following potential age nda items for the August meeting: 
•  Policy & Procedures Task Force  
•  Communication protocol and determining who is resp onsible for setting the agenda and how the board me mbers 
should submit agenda items 
•  Possible Board Training Dates with Executive Offic e of Elder Affairs 
•  Set date for orientation of new board members 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: None 
 
BOARD COMMENT 
•  Connie O’Dea declared that she would be resigning from the COA board as of today (July 8, 2014).  Alt hough she 
would like to remain until September  1, 2014, it w ould disrupt the number of the slate of COA board 
members/officers which was previously voted on by the board. 
  
PUBLIC COMMENT  None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business a motion was made and sec onded to adjourn the meeting.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously 
Meeting adjourned at 10:10AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
August 12, 2014  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant 
Lunenburg Council on Aging  
    