===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging    
Minutes Approved at the 5/13/2014 COA Meeting 
Minutes                  
March 11, 2014  
 
Present:  Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara Brown (Vi ce-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Jane Doyl e, 
Joyce Wass, Connie O’Dea, Shirley Bertone, Tony Bertone, & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.)  
 
Excused : Judy Tarbell & Deb Seeley  
 
Guests:  Karen Menard, Lunenburg Finance Committee member, Pete & Debby Lincoln & Lloyd Carlson. 
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad opened the meeting at 10:30AM & welcom ed all to the meeting. 
 
Minutes:  Ms. Doyle requested that a change in a date in the last set of minutes be made to “December 2013”. 
Ms. O’Dea moved to accept the 1/10/2014 COA minutes  with correction.  Ms. Brown seconded.  On vote, mo tion carried 
unanimously. 
 
 Director's Report    
1. Finance/Informational Report:  Ms. Noble distributed copies of her Organizational Chart and Goals to the board for 
review. 
 
Ms. Noble along with the COA board reviewed and dis cussed the Departmental Goals as follows: 
•  Restore 5 hours of transportation for the elderly that was removed in FY13 Budget 
•  Aim to diversify the COA’s income sources by worki ng with the Town, and the Supporters of the Eagle House Inc. 
•  Work with Lunenburg Public Access and other media outlets to increase public awareness and concern ab out the 
needs of senior adults and to promote appropriate community action 
•  Continue to improve our already existing senior ce nter meal site 
•  Continue with programing that incorporates a compr ehensive/multi spectrum wellness plan 
•  Advocate for and work with appropriated developers  to eventually achieve the Town’s goal of affordabl e housing 
for the elderly 
Board members recommended the following: 
•  Director’s goals timeline should become a comprehe nsive 2 year plan (FY14-FY16) 
•  Director’s Evaluation will be performed on an annu al basis 
 
Ms. Noble reported that the Senior Citizen Tax Work -Off program has 17 positions and 15 participants.  This committee 
will be submitting an Article on the Warrant for th e Annual Town Meeting in May to have the increase o n participants 
property tax deduction from $750 - $1000 in FY15. 
 
Ms. Noble discussed the issue of vendors who use th e senior center, free of charge, during normal oper ating hours.  As of 
April 1, 2014 she will be initiating a pay structur e for all vendors who are charging participants who  take part in their 
classes. 
Also discussed was the possibility of charging non- residents a fee for using the services at the senio r center.  Other 
communities practice this policy and some do not al low “out of town” people to use their senior center  at all.  Board 
members agreed that beginning on July 1, 2014 a fee  of $7- $8 per year would be reasonable.  That amou nt is 
comparable to what the Town of Lunenburg receives p er elder from the Formula Grant yearly. 
 
Old Business  
1. Budget FY15: Lunenburg FinCom Meeting 3/6/14 Inf ormational Report: Ms. Noble along with the COA 
Chairperson, Mary Lynn Conrad attended the FinCom m eeting on 3/6/14 to present the COA budget via a sl ide show, 
which went very well.  The Town Manager’s recommend ed FY15 budget for the COA is $110,681.20.  Funding  in the 
Meal Site line item will need to be moved to the Ad ministrative Assistant (dispatch) pay line in order  to extend 
transportation hours. Ms. Noble will speak to the Town Manager prior to Annual Town Meeting to make th e adjustment. 
 
2. Boston Post Cane: Ms. Noble reported that Marion Pepin, who is the ne xt eligible recipient of the Boston Post Cane, 
does not want a large recognition ceremony but rath er a small gathering at her home.  Ms. Noble and Fa ith Anderson, 
===PAGE 2===
Outreach Coordinator, will arrange for the proper d ignitaries and press to attend the presentation eit her in April or May of 
this year. 
 
New Business   
1. Bocci Court Dedication: The Bocci Court Dedication will take place on Wedn esday, May 14 th  at 10AM.  Ms. Noble will 
invite all who were instrumental in bringing this project to fruition. 
 
2.  Resignation COA Board Member Whitney Lacka: Whitney Lacka sent an email to Ms. Doherty informin g her that 
she will be resigning from the COA board immediatel y due to the fact that she will be moving out of Town. 
Ms. O’Dea moved to accept Whitney Lacka’s resignati on with regret.  Ms. Doyle seconded.  On vote, moti on carried 
unanimously. 
The Lunenburg Board of Selectmen will be notified about this resignation. 
  
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, Bylaw, Director’s Evaluation: No 
Reports/Minutes 
1. Director’s Evaluation Report : Ms. Doyle reviewed the Director’s Job Evaluation form with the COA board.  She stated 
that this is always a work in progress and asked me mbers to bring back questions after reviewing.  Discussion included: 
•  Dropping the Lowest and Highest scores from the ev aluation 
•  The job description is the expectation 
•  Board members should go section by section and sum marize their commentary 
 
Correspondence : None 
 
General Discussion:  Ms. Brown had prepared manuals for each board mem ber with information to aid in the function of 
each sub-committee.  A workshop meeting date will be determined at a later timer for discussion on the manuals. 
 
Discussion ensued among the board regarding strikin g Sub-Committee’s from the COA Bylaws.  The reasoni ng for this is 
that board members should meet as 1 body to discuss  and vote on COA business. This would eliminate the  need for 
multiple sub-committee meetings, which require the posting of meeting agendas and recording of minutes , and will further 
ensure that all requirements of the Open Meeting Law are met. 
 
Mr. Carlson, Representative from the Supporters of the Eagle House Inc. spoke to say that their Treasu rer, Jim Hays, has 
sent a letter to the Town Manager requesting inform ation on whether or not the Eagle House will be rec eiving a new 
parking lot.  This group had raised funds specifically for this project and would like to know where this stands. 
 
Mr. Lincoln brought up the subject of quorums sayin g that prior information received concerning this w as incorrect and 
that Town Counsel has determined that a quorum cons ists of a majority of the appointed members, whethe r or not those 
positions are filled. 
He also mentioned that both he and his wife Debby h ave submitted Talent Bank forms to the Selectmen fo r consideration 
of appointment to the Council on Aging. 
 
Adjournment:  Being no further business, Ms. O’Dea moved to adjourn the meeting.   
Ms. Wass seconded.  On vote, motion carried unanimo usly. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:50AM.   
 
Upcoming Meeting 
April 8, 2014 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant 
Lunenburg Council on Aging  
    