===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                 
Minutes Approved at 3/11/14 COA Meeting 
January 14, 2014  
 
Present:  Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara Brown (Vi ce-Chairperson), Doreen Noble 
(Director), Joyce Wass, Connie O’Dea, Whitney Lacka, Shirley Bertone, Tony Bertone, & Judy Tarbell  
 
Excused : Deb Seeley, Jane Doyle, & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:  Karen Menard, Lunenburg Finance Committee member 
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 10 :30AM & wished everyone a Happy 
New Year. 
 
Minutes:  Ms. Noble (Director) stated that she had a conver sation with Jane Doyle about the minutes 
of the COA meeting of Dec. 10, 2013.  Jane requeste d that the following corrections be added to the 
Dec.10, 2013 COA meeting minutes.  “The November 4,  2013 meeting minutes of the Director’s 
Evaluation Committee were accepted at the December 10, 2013 meeting of the COA.  Copies of the 
revised Director’s Job Description and the Revised Director’s Evaluation Tool were handed out to each 
member of the COA board.  Questions and concerns an d a review of the process will be discussed 
during the March COA meeting.” 
 
Ms. O’Dea moved to accept the 12/10/2013 COA minute s with corrections.  Ms. Lacka seconded.  On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
 Director's Report    
1.Finance/Informational Report:  None 
 
Ms. Noble stated that the kitchen is doing well and  that two new dietary aides have been hired to work  
part time on Wednesday & Thursdays.  Their salaries will be paid out of the Formula Grant. 
 
The transportation program is going well but it is her hope that the hours that were lost to this prog ram 
due to the closing of the Senior Center on Fridays will be partially restored. 
 
The Outreach Program is extremely busy due to an in crease in outside referrals.  The bad economy 
has contributed to the increased need for fuel assi stance, food stamps and other general needs. Non-
elders are being referred to us and we are giving them information and referrals but not assisting unless 
there are emergency needs. 
 
The Chair Exercise Program, which is well attended, is now on hold due to the illness of the instructor. 
 
Old Business  
1. Budget FY15 (presentation by Director):  Ms. Noble handed out copies of the COA budget for 
FY15 to each member.  She stated that the COA budge t is only .4% of the overall budget, with seniors 
comprising of about 25% of the population.  Reviewing the line items, Ms. Noble explained the requests 
including a 3% contractual increase in the Director’s salary, approximately 60 cents an hour increase in 
the Administrative Assistants salary depending on U nion negotiations, 8 hours increased time for 
kitchen help and approximately 5 hours restored to the transportation program. 
Ms. Noble then reviewed the expenses stating that the office equipment reduction is due to the fact that 
only small equipment should be needed and utilities  are estimated at about the same. The MOC 
===PAGE 2===
program has been somewhat unsatisfactory and the Se nior Center has taken over a couple of days of 
supplementation of Soup & Salad days (which have be en very popular) but, makes it necessary to 
increase the dollar amount to the FY15 budget for the kitchen program. 
In the Training line, Ms. Noble explained that all personnel (existing and new) are trained and increa se 
is for retraining staff members when changes occur. 
Ms. Noble will soon be meeting with the Finance Committee to present and review the FY15 budget. 
 
Ms. Bertone moved to accept the FY15 budget as pres ented.  Ms. Wass seconded.  On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
New Business   
1. Tax Work-Off Program:  Ms. Noble state that applications for the Tax Work -Off Program are now 
available.  This committee will meet on 1/27/2014 to review and complete work on the FY14 applicants.  
There are approximately 17 citizens placed in diffe rent Town departments and this is a very good 
program for our seniors. 
Discussion ensued concerning the taxation on the earnings of the seniors in this program.  The general 
consensus was that it was unfair.  Ms. Noble stated  that she had a written a letter in opposition to t his 
taxation, however the Town Accountant responded that it was I.R.S. regulations and she was unable to 
do anything about this. 
 
Karen Menard offered to look into this further and report back to the COA. 
 
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, Bylaw, Director’s 
Evaluation: No Reports 
 
1.Subcommittee Minutes & Agenda Submittals : Not discussed 
 
Correspondence : Ms. Conrad received a note from former COA board member Gloria O’Brien saying 
that she was doing well.  Gloria was a very valued member of the COA. 
 
General Discussion:  None 
 
Adjournment :  Being no further business, Ms. O’Dea moved to adjou rn the meeting.  Ms. Lacka 
seconded.  On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:50AM.   
 
Upcoming Meeting 
February 11, 2014 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Barbara Brown Vice-Chairperson 
Lunenburg Council on Aging  
    