===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                              
Minutes Approved Dec. 8, 2015 COA Meeting  
Meeting Minutes 
November 10, 2015   
 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Director) Debbie Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, 
Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Cheryl Moisan, Jacquelyn Dwyer, and Jane Rabbitt. 
 
Excused:  Brian Guenard 
 
GUESTS:  Cheryl Aubuchon, Eagle House Supporters, and Karin Menard, Finance Committee. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   The board welcomed new hire Administrative Assistant Amanda Koeck. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Grant pointed out that her name was listed as the Boston Post Cane recipient 
instead of Sarah Powell. 
Jacquelyn Dwyer pointed out a date change in the minutes for upcoming meetings. 
Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to accept the amended minutes, Ms. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS: 
1. Director’s Report:  
•  Budget Report : Ms. Doherty reported that Meals on Wheels workers are now being paid every 
two months and that there have been no problems so far.  
Ms. Doherty also reported that she’s had to shift funds around to account for drivers going to 
Florida and the ones who drive regularly. 
 
•  Property Tax Work-Off Committee:   There were 9 participants in last year’s program, and their 
times sheets are at Human Resources. Ms. Doherty reported that the committee is working on 
the 2016 program and that there will be clerical positions in the Board of Selectmen office, the 
library, police department, etc. as well as kitchen help for Meals on Wheels.  
 
•  Building Repair Progress:   Ms. Doherty reported that the water damaged ceiling above the 
entrance to the large meeting room has been repaired. Jim Breault from the DPW suggested 
removing the peak over the foyer to avoid ice dams. He also mentioned that perhaps a canopy 
could be added to the front door of the foyer. Roof repair is in the capital plan. Ms. Doherty also 
expressed that the Eagle House should invest in an apartment sized washer/dryer to clean 
towels, aprons, and table cloths used during lunch. As it stands people have been taking things 
home to wash in their own washers and dryers. 
 
===PAGE 2===
•  Upcoming Events : Ms. Doherty reported on upcoming and current events as follows: 
Sand for Seniors is back in swing. The fire department will be filling buckets for seniors this 
season and checking smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. Those who can’t afford detectors 
will be able to get new ones free of charge. 
 
The Eagle House Supporters Christmas Boutique will take place Dec. 5 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
 
The National Honor Society is raking leaves, and helping the Eagle House with fallen apples this 
November. They will also be wrapping holiday presents free of charge in December. 
 
Upcoming Wednesday nights at the Eagle House will include more Zentangle projects, as well as 
Kumihimo braiding, and Yoga. Jo McLaughlin will be here to film the events for a montage for 
cable access and YouTube. 
 
Monday, Dec. 28 at noon is the “Putting On the Ritz” party, organized by Outreach Coordinator 
Faith Anderson.  There are only two tickets left.   
 
A new “Breakfast Club” has been developed by Ms. Anderson to go along with the “Lunch 
Bunch.” The first outing is to take place on Dec. 14 at 9 a.m. at the Ugly Omelet. 
 
The Eagle House will host both Lunenburg Family Gift Mart and Toys for Tots bins this year. The 
Lunenburg Family Gift Mart will accept not only new toys but also new clothing, and other gift 
items. Donations will stay in town. Toys for Tots is for only toys or donations to be made payable 
to the Marine Corps League. 
 
Golden Living will sponsor a Holiday cookie tasting Dec. 15 at the Senior Center. 
 
The Traveling Tooth Fairy will be coming to the Eagle House on the second Wednesday of every 
month from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. and then on the following Thursday morning. 
 
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan will conduct an informal “Friends and Family” CPR lesson in January. 
No certificates will be given out for completion of the seminar. 
 
The RUOK program hopefully will be coming back to Lunenburg through a grant by the 
Community Health Care Fund. Ms. Doherty reported that she and Ms. Anderson met with the 
director at the Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch Center. Deadline for the grant is Nov. 20. 
 
2. The Boston Post Cane  ceremony took place Oct. 22 and was well attended. A video of the 
ceremony was posted on YouTube and on the Eagle House Facebook page. 
 
3. Eagle House Walkway  is mostly finished, but still needs to “cure” for one year before it’s 
treated. When the walkway is wet it is very slippery. Signs will be posted on the walkway, and an 
extra floodlight will be added to the area around the walkway/upper parking lot so people can 
see better at night. Cheryl Aubuchon from the Eagle House Supporters said they’d donate 
another $1,000 for the Eagle Scout’s project. 
 
4. The Eagle House Recreation Area  will be improved upon on December 7 as a new shed is to 
be built for storing bocce equipment and, in the future, shuffle board equipment and 
===PAGE 3===
horseshoes. Mr. Lincoln said he met with Jack Rodriquenz of the DPW and is planning for the 
shuffle board to run parallel to the bocce court. Mr. Lincoln also brought up horseshoes and 
suggested that instead of making the area between the platforms a special distance for seniors , 
throwing lines could be drawn from the senior distance so everyone could play the standard 
game if they want to, citing the fifty plus crowd the Eagle House is trying to attract. 
 
5. Council on Aging board training  is scheduled for Nov. 16 at the Eagle House. COA boards 
from Townsend, Shrewsbury, and Harvard will attend. Registration is at 8:45 a.m. and it’s soup 
and sandwich day which is $3. Bottled water will be supplied. 
 
6.  Lunenburg Women’s Club “Free Lunch for Veterans” takes place on Veterans Day at noon at 
the Eagle House. 
 
7. Capital Plan Requests Ms. Doherty reported that items added to the Eagle House capital plan 
are: new roof, parking lot, and possibly a washer/dryer. 
 
8. December COA Meeting Slated for Dec. 8. Ms. Lincoln suggested a small holiday party and 
ornament swap, most were in favor. Those who want to bring ornaments to swap are welcome. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Dwyer announced that Lunenburg High School will be 
performing “Play Date With Judy” at the high school at 2 or 3 p.m. on Dec. 2. The showing will 
be free for senior citizens. 
 
Ms. Lincoln said she couldn’t access her town email account. Other members voiced the same. 
Ms. Doherty said she’d contact Steve Malandrinos Director of the town’s Information 
Technology Department. 
 
Ms. Doherty distributed a printed email from Tom Alonzo who chairs the cable advisory 
committee asking for feedback on how town departments use cable. Board members said 
they’d come to the next meeting to compile their answers. 
 
Ms. Tarbell announced that she made nametags for COA members to wear to events at the 
Eagle House or off site. The nametags will be kept in the office at the front desk at the Eagle 
House. 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT: None. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  At 10:32 a.m. Ms. Rabbitt moved to adjourn the meeting and was seconded 
by Ms. Dwyer. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE:  
Tuesday, December 8,  2015 9:30 a.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Amanda Koeck 
Administrative Assistant COA 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 