===PAGE 1===
  
 
 
 
 
    
Lunenburg Council on Aging    Minutes Approved at the 11/10/15 COA Meeting    
Meeting Minutes                  
October 13, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:33AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Director), Debbie Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd,  
Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Cheryl Moisan, Brian Guenard & Jane Rabbitt. 
 
Excused:  Jacquelyn Dwyer  
 
Guests:   Cheryl Aubuchon, Eagle House Supporters & Karin Menard, Lunenburg Finance Committee  
    
ANNOUNCEMENTS: 
Mr. Lincoln reminded all board members that if they  cannot attend a meeting to call him, not the offic e, to let 
him know. 
 
Mr. Lincoln gave birthday greetings to board members Cheryl Moisan and Jane Rabbitt. 
 
Mr. Guenard reported that he was unable to meet wit h the DPW Director concerning building issues at th e 
senior center. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Mr. Lincoln pointed out a date change in the Sept ember minutes that needed to be 
corrected. 
Ms. Lincoln moved to accept the amended minutes.  M r. Guenard seconded.  On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Administrative Assistant Hire:  Ms. Doherty informed that board that after receivin g close to 90 
applications for the administrative assistant posit ion, 2 people were interviewed from the Clerical Un ion and 4 
people were chosen for interview from the general p ublic.  After careful consideration of all, Amanda Koeck 
was chosen for the position and will begin work on October 19, 2015. 
. 
2. Director’s Report:  
•  Budget Report: No Report 
 
•  Property Tax Work-Off Committee: The Property Tax Work-Off Committee had met in Sept ember 
and Ms. Doherty was elected as the Chairperson to t he committee.  Plans were made to begin work on 
next year’s program and another meeting has been set for October 27 
th . 
 
•  Building Repair Progress: No further building repairs have been done status i s “still a work in 
progress” 
 
•  Current/Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty reported on the current events as follows: 
Adam Bergeron, Classical Pianist will be performing at the Eagle House on November 2 
nd .  This 
program is sponsored by the Eagle House Supporters. 
 
November Pancake Breakfast has been changed to Wednesday 11/4/15 due to Veteran’s Day. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Women’s Club will be sponsoring a “Free Lunch for Veterans” at the Eagle House on 
11/4/15.   
Ms. Doherty will open and close the building for this event. 
 
The first Wednesday Evening programming went well w ith 9 people in attendance for Yoga and 
2 in attendance for the Fallon program. 
HD Flu Shots will be given on November 4 
th  from 4-6pm for those 65 and older, courtesy of 
Hannaford Supermarket. 
Future programs for Wednesday evenings include a Th anksgiving Floral Arrangement class 
given by Lunenburg Flowers & Gifts on November 18 
th  at 6pm,  
The arts programs given by Terry Hathaway and Yoga class led by Linda Malcomb will be 
ongoing. 
 
The Lunenburg High School National Honor Society an d Community Service Club will be 
working with the senior center to provide raking, s now shoveling, gift wrapping and electronic 
device help for seniors. 
 
The Tea Party which was held on October 6 
th  was a great success and raised approximately 
$400 for the Eagle House Supporters.  COA board mem ber Sarah Grant spearheaded this 
endeavor and was congratulated by the board members on her efforts. 
Ms. Grant spoke and gave credit to all of the volunteers who helped with this program. 
 
3. Boston Post Cane Ceremony October 19 
th  2pm: Board members were reminded about the Boston Post 
Cane Ceremony in honor of Sarah Powell.  COA board members volunteered their help with the ceremony 
which was graciously accepted by the COA Director. 
 
4. Inclement Weather Closing Procedures:   Ms. Doherty informed the board that the Town Mana ger has 
informed her that if schools are closed during inclement weather and the Eagle House programs are cancelled, 
the employees must report to work.  The only time t hey are not to report would be if there is an emerg ency 
closure called by the Town or by the State. 
Ms. Doherty stated that if a benefit employee could not report to work in those situations they would be allowed 
to take a personal or vacation day if they so choos e.  Non-benefit employees could either make up the time on 
another day or lose that day’s pay.  
 
5. Eagle House Walkway: This project is still under slow construction and is slated to be completed sometime 
in November. 
 
6. Eagle House Recreation Area:  Mr. Lincoln reported that a row of arborvitaes have  been planted on the 
property line between the Jones House and the Eagle  House.  Atlas Landscaping was hired to do the 
landscaping but they also cleared and leveled the area where the new shed will be placed, free of charge. 
Plans for constructing the shuffle board court are still scheduled to begin sometime this month. 
The Eagle House Supporters have agreed to pay for t he plantings, the shed, along with benches for the 
recreation area. 
Kevin McNally will be donating horseshoe equipment to the rec area.    
 
7. COA Board Training 11/16/15 at Eagle House 8:45a m: Ms. Doherty informed the board that Emmett 
Shmarsow from Executive Office of Elder Affairs contacted her and asked if Lunenburg would consider hosting 
an Area COA Board Training on 11/16 at the Eagle House and she agreed to do so. 
Ms. Doherty explained that it would behoove the boa rd members to attend, especially new ones, so they can 
understand what the purpose of Council’s on Aging are and to learn what is expected of COA board members. 
COA Board members volunteered to supply refreshment s for this morning meeting and Ms. Doherty gladly 
entrusted them with that duty. 
 
8.  Lunenburg Women’s Club “Free Lunch for Veterans ” 11/11/15 12 Noon @ Eagle House: Discussed 
under Director’s report. 
 
===PAGE 3===
9.  Capital Plan Requests: Ms. Doherty stated that Capital Plan requests are d ue soon and after discussion 
with DPW she will be requesting the following: 
•  New Roof 
•  Outside/Inside Building Painting  
•  Outside Building repairs to porch and siding 
Mr.  Lincoln requested that a new parking lot be added to the request. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   There were 5 talent bank forms received from the  Selectmen’s Volunteer 
booth at the Stillman Farm Fair. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Doherty mentioned that long time volunteers f or the Eagle House Senior Center 
Mario & Ann Patacchiola recently lost their son to Lou Gehrig’s disease.  Board members expressed thei r 
condolences. 
 
Ms. Lincoln thanked Cheryl Aubuchon for attending t oday’s meeting as the liaison for the Eagle House 
Supporters. 
Ms. Aubuchon thanked Ms. Grant for her work on Tea Party which raised funds for the Eagle House 
Supporters. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT : Karin Menard introduced herself and stated that s he will be attending the COA meetings 
as the liaison for the Lunenburg Finance Committee. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Ms. Grant moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Nowd seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:30AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE   
November 10, 2015, 9:30AM  
 
Respectfully Submitted  
Susan Doherty, Director 
Lunenburg Council on Aging 
    