===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging  
Meeting Minutes                                                                             Approved at COA meeting 1/12/16 
December 8, 2015 
 
CALL TO ORDER: Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present: Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Director) Jacquelyn Dwyer, Brian Guenard , Debbie 
Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Cheryl Moisan, and 
Jane Rabbitt. 
 
GUESTS: Cheryl Aubuchon, Eagle House Supporters, and Phyllis Luck, Board of Selectmen. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  
Debbie Lincoln said she attended the matinee of the LHS play “A Date with Judy” and said she saw about 
15 seniors there.  
 
Mr. Lincoln gave kudos to the Eagle House Supporters for their implementation of the Christmas 
Boutique Dec. 5. Ms. Aubuchon commented that the Eagle House Supporters raised more money this 
year than in 2014. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: Betty DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the November 10, 2015 
meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report: 
 Fiscal Year 2017 Budget: Ms. Doherty reported that she attended the Town Manager’s Five-Year 
Financial Forecast, and shared the document with the rest of the board members. The budget 
for COA will be due December 31, 2015.  Ms. Doherty explained that the budget mostly consists 
of employee wages, mileage for Meals on Wheels drivers, and education fees for training 
sessions. 
 
 Property Tax Work-Off Committee: Ms. Doherty reported that the applications are ready, and 
she has already received 3 completed applications. There are 13 departments that are looking 
for help this season.  
 
 Building Repair Progress/Furnace: Ms. Doherty reported that she spoke with Jack Rodriquenz, 
Kit Walker, and Jim Breault about treating the furnace with antifreeze, and she was instructed 
that only DPW employees should have access to the furnace at the Eagle House, and that the 
furnace is serviced twice a year. Ms. Luck asked if the Eagle House had a generator, and whether 
it would be considered as a capital plan request. Ms. Doherty informed the board that the DPW 
is in charge of the Eagle House capital plan and that in the past, multiple requests for a 
generator have been made to no avail. It has been determined that a proper back-up generator 
for the Eagle House would cost around $31,000. 
 
 RUOK Program/Grant: Ms. Doherty reported that she was invited back for the second round, 
and that she will know by mid-January whether the grant will be awarded. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 Fitchburg State University Community Read: For March, which is recognized as Women’s 
History Month, the Council on Aging and the Lunenburg Public Library will team up to present a 
documentary on the book “I Am Malala.” No date has been chosen yet.  
 
 Current Events: Ms. Doherty reported on upcoming and current events as follows: Some Meals 
on Wheels drivers are now being taxed on their income since they were given a raise last 
summer. Ms. Doherty said that starting January 1, 2016, Meals on Wheels drivers will be paid a 
weekly stipend of  $11.50 for mileage regardless of how many trips they make, which will keep 
the drivers under the $600 threshold for income tax.  Currently, drivers are being paid $15.00 
for each time they deliver meals from the Eagle House; therefore some drivers have made over 
$1,000 in 2015. 
 
All fifty tickets to the “Putting on the Ritz” party are sold out. The event will take place Dec. 28 
at noon. A catered lunch will be served, and live music by the Dixie Hot Four will be performed. 
The event is being organized by Outreach Coordinator Faith Anderson. 
 
The Lunenburg High School National Honor Society assisted Eagle House seniors with raking this 
fall, and will be wrapping gifts for free on Dec. 9 and 16. When the snow starts to fall, students 
will be available to shovel walkways and driveways this winter.  
 
Another Eagle Scout is looking for a project, Luke Marshall is hoping to stain or paint the 
walkway built by his brother Logan, and also suggested building a pergola for shade out by the 
bocce and shuffle board courts. Marshall told Ms. Doherty that he’s open to suggestions. Mr. 
Lincoln suggested that board members think of other projects to discuss at the next COA 
meeting. 
 
The 8th Grade Student Council will be hosting a free luncheon for seniors Monday, Dec. 21 at 
noon.  
 
Sand for Seniors is back in swing. The fire department will be filling buckets for seniors this 
season and checking smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. Those who can’t afford detectors 
will be able to get new ones free of charge. Six people have signed up already. 
 
Wednesday, January 20 from 5-7 p.m. there will be an open house geared toward vendors who 
are looking for a place to conduct classes, information sessions, lectures, etc. Light refreshments 
will be offered. 
 
January 13, from 5-7p.m. Lunenburg Fire Department Chief Patrick Sullivan will be giving an 
informal CPR class, instruction booklets will cost $1.00. No official certification will be given. 
 
January 23, Golden Living will present ways to keep moving while relaxing as part of the weekly 
Living Better Longer session at the Eagle House. 
 
Monday, January 25, at 2 p.m. the Eagle House will host a “Popcorn and Brainstorm” session 
with Ms. Doherty and Faith Anderson the Outreach Coordinator in order to get some fresh ideas 
for programs to hold at the senior center. 
===PAGE 3===
 
AARP Tax Assistance dates have not been set yet, but representatives will probably provide 
services in early February. 
 
On February 1, to recognize Heart Month, Sarah Grant will conduct a Button Heart Pin class. 
 
February 23 will feature a healthy lunch for Heart Month sponsored by River Court. 
 
An Antiques Appraisal Day with the Harley House at the Eagle House is also in the works for 
some time in the spring. 
 
 
 
 COA Board Training: Mr. Lincoln commented that the COA board training session on November 
16 was outstanding, and that the comments and suggestions were great. Jacquelyn Dwyer asked 
that copies of the comments and suggestions made at the training session be made available. 
 
 Recreation Area: The shed for outdoor equipment is finished and ready to use. A ramp and shelf 
for the shed will be arriving over the weekend. There are some holes that need to be patched up 
as well. Ms. Doherty reported that the possibility of a drive-in movie could be an option for 
things to do this summer.  
 
NOTES & COMMUNICATIONS 
 
Ms. Doherty reported that the name of the Eagle House newsletter has changed from Senior Spirit to 
the Eagle Flyer, and suggested that getting away from the term senior could help attract the younger 
senior crowd to the Eagle House.  
 
Ms. Lincoln commented that she saw the Townsend Senior Center’s newsletter and pointed out that 
they have a “Brown Bag Pharmacy.” Ms. Dwyer, who is a registered nurse, said she would be willing to 
schedule some time to come in and help people discard their medication.  
 
Ms. Doherty went over the inclement weather procedures for the Eagle House. The building will be 
closed to the public, but staff will be on site to answer phone calls about transportation, and answer 
questions. Whether the van for seniors will run will be up to the discretion of the drivers; most likely, 
shopping trips and hair dresser appointments will be cancelled, but medical appointments will be kept. 
Mr. Lincoln commented that if the Eagle House is closed on the day of a COA meeting, the board will 
meet the following Tuesday. 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Mr. Lincoln pointed out that this is the first time he’s seen a member of the 
Lunenburg Board of Selectmen at a COA meeting. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Luck commented that the Girl Scouts held their Pancake Breakfast on the same 
day as the Christmas Boutique at the Eagle House as well as the 10th anniversary celebration at the 
Lunenburg Public Library. Ms. Luck suggested collaborating with organizations in town to advertise each 
other’s events in the future.  
===PAGE 4===
Cheryl Aubuchon of the Eagle House Supporters said she was entertaining the idea of changing the 
Christmas Boutique to a Spring Fair. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: At 10:32 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
Next Meeting Tuesday January 12, 2016 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
Amanda Koeck 
 
 