===PAGE 1===
  
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging     
MINUTES APPROVED AT THE 10/13/ 2015 COA MEETING  
Meeting Minutes                  
September 8, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to or der at 9:30AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Direct or), Debbie Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd,  
Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Brian Guenard & Jane Rabbitt. 
 
Excused:  Cheryl Moisan  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: 
Mr. Lincoln reminded all board members that if they cannot attend a meeting to call him, not the offic e, to let him know. 
 
Mr. Lincoln wished all board members born in Septem ber a Happy Birthday. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Dwyer moved to accept the August 11, 2015 Cou ncil on Aging minutes.   
Mr. McNally seconded. On vote, motion carried unani mously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Boston Post Cane Ceremony October 19 th  2PM:  Ms. Doherty reported that she had visited the next recipient of the 
Boston Post Cane, Sarah Powell.  Mrs. Powell is a d elightful person and is looking forward to having h er family attend the 
ceremony at the Eagle House. 
. 
2. Director’s Report:  
•  Budget Report: Ms. Doherty explained that due to the 2 meal site r esignations, there will once again be money in 
the COA budget to restore the previously cut hours of the 2 kitchen aides.  
Hours will be restored after September 30, 2015. 
 
•  Property Tax Work-Off Committee: The next meeting to start plans for next year’s pro gram will be on 
September 15, 2015.  
 
•  Building Repair Progress: No further building repairs have been done.  The wa ter damaged hallways will be 
painted after the roof in the front foyer has been repaired. 
Mr. Guenard questioned whether or not anti-freeze w as used in the heating system at the senior center and 
mentioned that he would speak to DPW about that. He  will also inquire about what the plans are going t o be to fix 
the roof. 
 
•  Eagle Scout Walkway: Work has begun on the walkway connecting the upper parking lot to the lower lot.  
Although the construction has slowed down it is still anticipated to be completed by November. 
 
Wednesday Stretch & Tone classes will resume on Sep tember 23 
rd .   
 
Beginning on October 7 
th  the Eagle House will be open on Wednesdays from 8a m-8pm.  There will be an ongoing Yoga 
class along with arts/crafts and public information programs on those evenings. 
 
5. Update on Eagle House Recreation Area: Mr. Lincoln reported that the shuffle board court c onstruction will begin in 
October. 
Board members also discussed the installation of th e new shed and the fact that the land needs to be l eveled before 
placement. 
Also discussed was the possibility of purchasing a small generator to keep the sprinkler system runnin g in the event of a 
power outage. 
 
7. Task Groups Re-Organization/Liaison to Eagle House Supporters Inc.: Board members discussed the Task 
Groups and questioned if there were actually a need  for them.  It was decided to do away with the COA Task Groups, and 
to form Ad-Hoc groups when needed. 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Lincoln moved to terminate all Council on Aging  Task Groups (Advocacy, Communication, & Public Rel ations).  Ms. 
Grant seconded.  On vote, motion carried unanimousl y. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:    
 
BOARD COMMENT:   Ms. Doherty mentioned that the public access vide o advertising the Eagle House has been 
recorded and is currently in the process of being edited. 
 
Ms. Nowd encouraged all to attend the upcoming Stil lman Fair. 
 
The board discussed the possibility of board member s volunteering to be “greeters” at the senior cente r to welcome 
visitors. 
 
Ms. Doherty reminded the board about the upcoming O pen Meetings Law Workshop to be held at the end of September. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT : None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Mr. Guenard moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. DiGiacomo seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:15AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE   
October 8, 2015, 9:30am  
 
Respectfully Submitted  
Susan Doherty, Director 
 Lunenburg Council on Aging 
    