===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging        Minutes Approved at May 12, 2015 COA  Meeting  
Meeting Minutes                  
April 14, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:35AM. 
A moment of silence was observed in honor of former COA board member Jane Doyle. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Deb Seeley (Vice Chai r), Doreen Noble (Director), Debbie Lincoln, 
Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, Betty DiGiacomo, Cheryl Mo isan, Judy Tarbell, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Kevin McNally,  
Brian Guenard & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst). 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln thanked Ms. Dwyer for her work on deve loping the Eagle House Facebook 
page.  Ms. Dwyer spoke to say how she pleased she was to see how well the page is working. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Dwyer moved to accept the March 10, 2015 Council on Aging minutes.   
Ms. Moisan seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Director’s Report:  Ms. Noble reported on the following concerning the Eagle House Senior Center 
Meal Site Coordinator Jeanne Tatro has completed th e Serve Safe Training and waiting on the certificat e 
to arrive. 
Meal Site Worker Judy Alario will be returning to work after a lengthy illness. 
Meal Site Coordinator Ruth Swiecicki will be return ing to work in May and working throughout the summe r 
months. 
The Salad Bar will be reinstated on the last Thursd ay of each month at the meal site.  MOC Nutrition m eal 
will also be available to luncheon participants every Thursday. 
Ms. Noble had attended a MOC Nutrition meeting and reported that there has been staffing changes in that 
organization.  Meals on Wheels intake forms will no w be the responsibility of the Eagle House Outreach  
worker to complete with new clients. 
 
With cribbage attendance increasing at the senior center and lack of space due to other events being h eld, 
the cribbage day has been changed from Mondays to Tuesdays. 
 
It had been suggested to the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Lions Club that a change from Wednesdays to Fridays  
for the monthly pancake breakfast might be a better  option for that organization.  The reason for this  
suggestion was that Wednesday activities at the sen ior center have increased causing bedlam with the 
running of the MOW’s from the kitchen and interferi ng with the Stretch & Tone class in the morning.  A  
simple “yes/no” questionnaire was provided at the 4/8/2015 pancake breakfast and participants preferred to 
keep this event on the 2 
nd  Wednesday of the month. 
 
The “Traveling Toothfairy” has returned to the seni or center by appointment only, once per month.  Mar cy 
Foreman RDH, BS will be preforming oral health screenings at reasonable rates. 
 
The “Dine Around Club” will not be returning as an activity through the senior center “offsite”.  Curr ently the 
Outreach Coordinator is working on developing an “E vening Dine In” at the senior center to be catered by 
area establishments. 
 
The Eagle House Supporters Inc. have agreed to pay for a gardener to take care of the daily watering a nd 
upkeep of the gardens at the senior center. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Lunenburg High School Student Council will be p roviding a “Senior Citizen Prom” at Lunenburg High 
School on May 16 th  at 4pm. 
 
The new MART bus route has begun for Lunenburg resi dents and schedules are available at the senior 
center. 
 
The Eagle House will be a collection site for a Twi n City Paws fundraiser during the month of May.  Th ere 
will be a collection box available for old shoes wh ich will be turned into an agency in return for fun ds for 
their organization. 
 
•  Budget Report: Ms. Noble informed the board that she will have a b udget report prepared for them at 
the May COA meeting.  
 
•  Building Repair Progress: New LED lighting has been installed throughout the senior center.   This 
was made possible through a grant which the Lunenbu rg Green Communities Task Force had 
obtained.  
The ice damage to the senior center which had occurred over the winter is in the process of being 
repaired.  DPW is looking into the possibility of installing a “rubber” roof over the problem areas. 
 
•  Boston Post Cane Recipient: It has been determined that a procedure which had b een established in 
“1998” by the COA and Board of Selectmen will be fo llowed to determine who the next Boston Post 
Cane Recipient will be.  Currently there are 5 cand idates to be contacted and they must meet certain 
criteria in order to receive the cane.  Criteria for Selection includes:  
1. Oldest registered voter, according to Town Recor ds 
2. Resident of Lunenburg at least 25 years during t heir lifetime, as verified by Town records 
3. An active member of the community in the past. 
The Town Clerk and Director will be making the determination of who the recipient will be. 
 
•  Eagle Scout Walkway: The Board of Selectmen have approved the Eagle Scou t candidate, Logan 
Marshall, request to build a walkway between the upper and lower parking lots at the senior center.  Mr. 
Marshall still needs to obtain approval from the Boy Scout Council before he can move forward with this 
project. 
 
2. Expiring COA Terms Renewal 
Mr. Lincoln reviewed with the board the Selectmen’s process for board appointment renewals.   
Currently there are three COA board members, Brian Guenard, Debby Lincoln, & Betty DiGiacomo, whose 
terms will be ending in June 2015. All have express ed their desire to be re-appointed to the COA board  and 
were given appointment renewal forms to fill out. 
 
3. Wish List for submission to Supporters of Eagle House Inc.  
Board members discussed items for the wish list to be submitted to the Eagle House Supporters for purc hase 
which included a storage shed and shade trees. 
 
Mr. Lincoln mentioned that he has been communicatin g with Dave MacDonald concerning the shuffle board 
court and horse shoe pits.  This will be another vo lunteer driven project with outside donations and r emains a 
work in progress. 
 
6. Task Groups (suggestions):  
•  Advocacy (charge of task group is to deal with elder issues within Lunenburg)   
Board members updated Ms. Seeley on the meeting which was held with State Rep. Jennifer Benson in 
her absence. 
Ms. Seeley mentioned that the local State Represent atives will be holding a Health Fair/Senior 
Conference on April 23 
rd  and suggested that this might be a good conference  for COA members to 
attend. 
 
===PAGE 3===
•• ••  Communication  (charge of task group is to deal with how the staff, board members and senior center 
participants communicate with each other .)  
Ms. Lincoln updated the board about Eagle House Senior Center informational pamphlets.  She had 
contacted the Ledger and researched printing costs but has come to the conclusion that it would be too 
expensive of an undertaking.  These pamphlets will still be available at the senior center and at various 
other Town locations such as the Town Hall and the Library. 
 
•• ••  Public Relations –  (charge of task group is to further investigate how to reach a broader audience)  
Facebook Page :  Discussed under announcements. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   A notice was read from Executive Office of Elder Affairs announcing 
upcoming COA Board Training sessions. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lincoln reminded all that the COA Slate of Of ficers should be discussed at the May 
meeting and then voted on at the Annual June meeting. 
 
The board set the date of August 17, 2015, from 11AM-2PM, for the Annual Volunteer Appreciation Cookout.   
The Director will contact the Fire & Police to request their help again this year. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT : None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Ms. Dwyer moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Grant seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:50AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE  Annual Meeting June 9, 2015, 9:30am  
 
Respectfully Submitted  
Susan Doherty - Administrative Assistant Lunenburg - Council on Aging 
    