===PAGE 1===
  
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging    
Minutes approved at the 9/8/15 COA meeting    
Meeting Minutes                  
August 11, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to or der at 9:34AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Interim Director), Debbie Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Now d,  
Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Jacquelyn Dwyer, & Jane Rabbitt. 
 
Excused:  Cheryl Moisan & Brian Guenard  
 
Guest : Logan Marshall 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   
•  Eagle Scout Walkway:  Eagle Scout Candidate Logan Marshall came before t he board to explain his plans for 
the walkway he will be building to connect the uppe r and lower parking lots at the senior center.  The  original plan 
was to make the walkway out of concrete but that ha s changed and it will now be made of pressure treat ed wood.  
The building permit has been received and he hopes to have this project completed by the beginning of the 
school year.  
The board thanked Mr. Marshall for doing this project for the senior center. 
 
•  Director Postion: Mr. Lincoln announced that Ms. Doherty will be appo inted as the permanent Director of the 
Council on Aging by the Board of Selectmen at the S electmen’s meeting this evening.  He explained that  the 
hiring committee consisted of Kerry Speidel (Town M anager), Phyllis Luck (Selectmen member) and himsel f.  
Twelve people had applied for the position and four  were chosen for interviews.  Ms. Doherty was the m ost 
experienced candidate when it came to managing a se nior center and they chose her for the position.  
 
•  Welcome new COA (Council on Aging) Board Member Jan e Rabbitt: Mr. Lincoln introduced and welcomed 
Ms. Rabbitt to the COA board.  Ms. Rabbitt commente d that she had been officially sworn in by the Town  Clerk 
the day before.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. DiGiacomo moved to accept the June 9, 2015 Co uncil on Aging minutes.   
Ms. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unani mously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Election of COA Vice-Chairperson:  Ms. DiGiacomo moved to elect Jacquelyn as the COA V ice Chairperson.   
Ms. Nowd seconded.  On vote, motion carried unanimo usly. 
 
2. Boston Post Cane Recipient: Ms. Dwyer presented the board with Boston Post Cane  recipient paperwork which she 
had updated. 
Mr. Lincoln informed the board that he had spoken t o a member of the Board of Selectmen who informed h im that there 
was no protocol to follow concerning the awarding o f the Boston Post Cane, therefore, it was decided t hat the oldest 
person living in Lunenburg, Sarah Powell, age 101, will be the next recipient. 
Discussion ensued regarding who should be the “poin t person” when the Boston Post Cane needs to be awa rded.  It was 
decided that this has always been up to the COA Director and will remain that person’s responsibility.   
Ms. Doherty has sent a letter to Ms. Powell informi ng her of this award and will be meeting with her t o discuss public 
relation matters for the presentation of the cane. 
The updated paperwork will be used for future Boston Post Cane information. 
 
3. Director’s Report :   
Ms. Doherty informed the board that Paul Grunditz has been hired as an “on call” senior van driver.  
Lunenburg Public Access has begun filming the new E agle House Public Service Announcement. 
The hours of operation will be changing as of September 1 
st  to Monday – Thursday 8am-5pm.   
Special programming will begin in October on Wednes days and the senior center will be open from 8am-8p m on those 
days. 
===PAGE 2===
There will be an “Open Meeting Law” training sessio n scheduled in September facilitated by Lunenburg T own Counsel.  
The Town Manager would like a head count of board m embers interested in attending.  
 
•  Budget Report: Adjustments were needed in the FY16 salary line for  the kitchen aides.  Due to lack of funding, 
kitchen aide hours were reduced by 8 hours weekly.  
 
•  Property Tax Work-Off Committee: Ms. Doherty reported that she had been appointed to  the Property Tax 
Work-Off Committee by the Board of Selectmen.  The next meeting to start plans for next year’s program  will be 
on September 15, 2015.  
 
•  Building Repair Progress: No further building repairs have been done.  The wa ter damaged hallways will be 
painted after the roof in the front foyer has been repaired. 
 
•  Eagle Scout Walkway: Discussed under announcements 
 
•  Meal Site Resignations: Jeanne Tatro has submitted her resignation to Ms. D oherty and her last day will be on 
August26, 2015.   
Ruth Swiecicki also informed Ms. Doherty that her last day of employment will be on September 15, 2015. 
 
4.  Wish List for Submission to Supporters of Eagle  House Inc.:  No Report 
 
5. Update on Eagle House Recreation Area: Mr. Lincoln reported that plans are still in progre ss to add to the recreation 
area behind the senior center.  Currently property lines are being determined between the “Jones House ” and the senior 
center in order to plant new arborvitae bushes as a property divider.   
Dave McDonald plans to begin building the shuffle b oard court in the fall and the Eagle House Supporte rs Inc. have 
agreed to purchase a shed and benches for the area.  
Also discussed was the possibility of adding extra lighting to the back of the building. 
Mr. McNally will research the cost of sheds and lig hting and Mr. Lincoln will look into the purchase o f the arborvitae 
bushes. 
 
6. COA Volunteer Cookout Monday August 17, 2015 11a m-2pm: All board members were reminded of the upcoming 
COA Volunteer cookout to be held on 8/17/2015.  Ms.  Doherty informed the board that all food has been ordered and the 
police and fire have agreed to do the cooking. 
 
7. Task Groups Re-Organization/Liaison to Eagle House Supporters Inc.: Re-Organization and discussion on 
purpose of task groups was tabled until the Septemb er COA Meeting. 
Deb Lincoln volunteered to be the liaison to attend the Eagle House Supporters Inc. meetings. 
 
•  Advocacy (charge of task group is to deal with elder issues within Lunenburg)   
Ms. Dwyer presented changes to the board which were  made to the Boston Post Cane recipient determination  
•• ••  Communication  (charge of task group is to deal with how the staff , board members and senior center 
participants communicate with each other .)  
•• ••  Public Relations –  (charge of task group is to further investigate how to reach a broader audience) 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   A note from Doreen Noble was read to the board th anking them all for their support 
while she was the COA Director. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   Members discussed manning a COA information booth  at the Lion’s Club Fair in September at 
Stillman Farms.  Ms. Lincoln had received quotes for printing of informational flyers which ran betwee n $135 - $371.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT : None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Ms. Dwyer moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Grant seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:10AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE   
September 8, 2015, 9:30am  
 
Respectfully Submitted – Susan Doherty – Interim Director – Lunenburg Council on Aging 