===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
GUESTS: Jamie Toale Board of Selectmen Liaison, Cheryl Aubuchon Eagle House Supporters
ANNOUNCEMENTS: none
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. DiGiacomo moved to approve the minutes from the December 12, 2017 COA meeting, Sarah
Grant seconded. On vote, motioned carried unanimously.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Director's Report:
• Director's BOS power point presentation: Mr. Lincoln commented that too often, when going before
the Board of Selectmen, it is only Ms. Doherty and Mr. Lincoln who attend. He encouraged the rest of
the board to attend and participate in the presentation. Ms. Doherty then went through her
presentation, which highlights services and programs offered at the Eagle House, features pictures of
the building, staff, and activities, cites funding sources, i.e., the municipal budget, Formula Grant
funding, and funding from the Eagle House Supporters Inc., as well as the gift fund. The presentation
also includes volunteer, transportation, and program attendance statistics. Mr. Lincoln asked about the
appropriate age of senior citizens, since the Eagle House allows anyone fifty years or older to participate
in programs offered, and whether funding would be affected for using money for people under sixty
years old. Mr. Lincoln was told years ago by someone else that only people over age sixty should be
allowed to participate in programs at the senior center. Ms. Doherty answered that Formula Grant
funds are only to be used for persons sixty and over, however anyone age fifty and over is welcome to
participate in programs, and there is no membership fee to come to the senior center. Ms. Doherty
finished the presentation with the goals the board discussed at the December meeting. The
presentation will be given in front of the Board of Selectmen on January 16, 2018. Mr. Toale commented
that he wants to use Ms. Doherty's presentation as an example for other boards and committees that
will come before the Selectmen in the future. Mr. Toale expressed that the Selectmen are looking for
input from the boards in town instead of getting updates from liaisons, who share only their perspective
of what is important at the meetings they attend.
COA Goals: Ms. Lincoln commented that the Eagle House Supporters have raised approximately
$14,300, and suggested the rest of the board think about how that money could be used toward the
goals they discussed at last month's meeting. Ms. Aubuchon commented that she knew Ms. Doherty
• spoke with Jim Hays of the Supporters about new furniture. Ms. Doherty commented that the Lions Club
offered to donate new chairs for one of the seating areas in the Eagle House. Ms. Doherty also
mentioned that she's getting security cameras, funded by the Formula Grant, to watch over the
recreation area, parking lot, and walkway at the Eagle House, as well as to keep an eye on Kids Kingdom
from the Eagle House in order to identify vandals.
• MART Report: Ms. Doherty reported she's attending a meeting at MART scheduled for January 16, 2018,
to discuss the dispatch portion of the administrative assistant's salary, and that she'll be asking for an
increase in the municipal budget to cover MART's proposed cuts.
SNAP: Ms. Doherty reported she's working on her first quarterly report to the Department of
Transitional Assistance. So far, the Lunenburg COA has submitted six SNAP applications, two of which
===PAGE 2===
in order to encourage those who don't normally come out at night to have an opportunity to attend a
public forum during the day. Ms. Doherty talked about upcoming events advertised in the newsletter at
the Eagle House.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: The COA is to give their presentation to the Board of Selectmen at Town Hall on
January 16, 2018, at 7:10 p.m.
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. DiGiacomo discussed the suggestion box brought up at the last meeting, and asked if any
suggestions had been made. Ms. Doherty said that she and Outreach Worker Pauline Roy have been checking the
suggestions. So far, suggestions ask for the lights and ceiling fans to be cleaned in the main function room, as well as a
request for alcohol ink painting, and a weekly Ageless Grace exercise class. Mis. Doherty said she relayed the cleaning
request to the DPW, and that an alcohol ink class is scheduled for February. Ms. Doherty also pointed out that time and
scheduling is a big factor when it comes to new programs, especially new weekly programs at the Eagle House. Another
suggestion was made for more trips, and Ms. Doherty commented that there is no trip coordinator, but if someone
volunteered to take on the responsibility, there could be more trips. Mr. Lincoln suggested to reserve a place in the
newsletter for reactions to suggestions, whether the requests can be granted, and if not, the reasons why.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Aubuchon asked whether the new housing going in on Whalom Rd. would be senior housing.
Ms. Doherty said no, and also said that there is a possibility of more senior housing going in at the Tri-Town
development. Ms. Aubuchon expressed her dismay with the current windows at Pearl Brook Apartments where she
lives, and also said that there were no locks on the outside doors. Ms. Aubuchon complained that one resident once
went out her door to find someone sleeping in the hallway, and then went inside and called police. Ms. Doherty referred
Ms. Aubuchon to the Housing Authority, and Ms. Aubuchon said they wouldn't help her. Ms. Doherty then told Ms.
Aubuchon to go to the Massachusetts Department of Housing and Development. Ms. Doherty said she'd have Ms. Roy
look into the matter with the Lunenburg Housing Authority to see what could be done.
ADJOURNMENT: At 10:53 a.m., Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, motion
carried unanimously.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Next meeting: Tuesday, February 13, 2018, at 9:30 a.m.
