===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Dwyer
Absent: none
GUESTS: none
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mr. Lincoln held a moment of silence for three prominent members of the Eagle
House community who passed away between January and February 2018, Agnes Price, Violet Fitch, and
Therese Barney.
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the January 9, 2018
meeting, Mr. Guenard seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Director's Report:
• Formula Grant FY 19: Ms. Doherty reported that funds equaling $12.00 per elder
would be available, which, based on the 2010 Census, would total up around
$25,000 in funding for the COA. Mr. Lincoln pointed out that this is the first time
COAs were mentioned in a governor's State of the Commonwealth address. Ms.
Doherty pointed out that right now, according to the Town Clerk's list, there's
almost 3,000 seniors in town. Ms. Doherty also reported that she met with Senator
Dean Tran's deputy director Christy Mylott, and she is well-versed in senior issues,
and familiar with Montachusett Home Care's handling of elder -at-risk concerns. Ms.
DiGiacomo said she knew that some new people in upper management at
Montachusett Home Care have been hired. Ms. Dwyer offered her assistance as a
nurse, if any need arises when it comes to elder-at-risk reporting.
•
BOS Meeting 1/16/18 report: Mr. Lincoln reported he spoke for about 30 minutes
at the televised meeting, and that Emily from the Lunenburg Public Access Cable
handled the cameras very well between the power point slides, and the people
speaking. Ms. Doherty added that Town Manager Heather Lemieux was impressed
with the presentation. Ms. Doherty also said that she'd like to go before the
Selectmen twice a year to give updates about what's going on at the Eagle House.
• COA Budget Presentation at Lunenburg Finance Committee 2/22/18 7 p.m.: Ms.
Doherty handed out copies of the FY 19 Budget Increase Request, and explained
that she'd be asking for more hours for the administrative assistant position, which
will equate to $4,344, in order to compensate for MART cuts. Ms. Doherty will also
suggest cutting $200 from the programming line from the town's budget, and
explained she'd be able to make up for those funds through Formula Grant, and
funds from the Eagle House Supporters. Ms. Lincoln asked where the legality lies
when it comes to paying salaries if the Town or MART refuse. Ms. Doherty said
she'd be able to cover any differences with the Formula Grant. Ms. DiGiacomo
===PAGE 2===
Tri-Town Landing Proposed Senior Housing: Ms. Doherty handed out a description
of the proposed project to the board, which includes layouts of the apartments, and
services to be provided if the proposal is approved. An application is due to the
Lunenburg Planning Board by February 15, 2018. Ms. Doherty has submitted a letter
of support for the project.
• Intergenerational Programming
Bridges Together: Ms. Doherty said training for the program is scheduled
for March 9, 2018.
Secret Penpal: Ms. Doherty reported she's been in contact with Mary Beth
Ulf who works with eight graders at the Middle High School, and the
students want to start up a pen pal program with the seniors at the Eagle
House. The letter exchange is to start in March and go through the end of
the school year.
High School Drawing Class w/ Nate DiPerri: Scheduled for March 7, 2018,
high school students will be onsite to assist seniors to learn basic drawing
techniques, with models.
• Age/Dementia Friendly Community: Lunenburg Board of Selectman Bob Ebersole
sent an email to Ms. Doherty inquiring about whether Lunenburg should consider
becoming a "Dementia Friendly Community," citing the town of Northboro as an
example. Ms. Doherty said she looked into the concept and found that it is a very
large commitment from town businesses and schools, and would include training of
employees at those businesses, and would also need many volunteers. Ms. Doherty
also took a suggestion from Town Manager Heather Lemieux to look into "Age
Friendly Communities." Ms. Doherty told Selectman Ebersole that she would need
more time to look into the concept, and wouldn't be able to get to it until the fall.
• LPD Car Show: Scheduled for June 6, 2018. Mark your calendars.
• Cultural Council Art Show: Scheduled for June 9, 2018. At the least, the Eagle House
will need to be open for its rest rooms.
• MCOA Meeting: Canceled for February.
• Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty reported that Lunenburg resident Dave Passios asked why
the Eagle House wasn't included in the Building Reuse list of town properties to be
looked at. Engineers from Vertex came by and took a lot of pictures of the building.
The Eagle House is now in the plan for funding at some point.
• Boston Post Cane: Lunenburg resident Clarence Goguen is 100 years old, and the
oldest resident in the town. Ms. Doherty said she is working on scheduling a visit
with Mr. Goguen's family members.
• MART: Ms. Doherty reported that she's learned that other COAs have been taking
advantage of funds MART has provided to them. For example, one town's COA
purchased a new photocopier with their MART funds. Ms. Doherty also reported
that Mohammed Kahn from MART said the Town of Lunenburg could go back to
===PAGE 3===
order. The technicians from Wilson's will have to return when the weather is
warmer to assess the air conditioning.
Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty will be going before the Personnel Committee to
request that Outreach Worker Pauline Roy's title be changed to Outreach
Coordinator, and to also change the pay grade from Grade 6 Step 3 to Grade 7 Step
1. Ms. Doherty said she researched other COAs in surrounding towns, and most
Outreach employees are making more money than what the town is paying. Ms.
Doherty also talked about the upcoming events at the Eagle House.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: The COA Gift Fund took in $410.00 in Therese Barney's name. Ms.
Doherty sent thank you notes to those who donated.
The COA received a thank you note from the Lunenburg Gift Mart for being a donation location.
Ms. Doherty also reported the COA has been invited to COA Board Training in Acton on February 23,
2018, from 9:15 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. and Marlborough on March 13, 2018 from 9:15 a.m. to 11:45 a.m.
Ms. Lincoln encouraged everyone to go to the Lunenburg Public Access YouTube channel to see Ms.
DiGiacomo and her grandson's interview.
BOARD COMMENT:
Ms. Rabbitt asked about how the Eagle House could get access to the gym at TC Passios. She also said
her son works at ROl Industries, and it may be possible to have the chairs reupholstered through them.
Ms. Doherty said she's planning on replacing the chairs with vinyl ones soon.
Ms. Dwyer commented that the strain of influenza that is going around is, "Killing people, including
healthy people." She urged everyone to keep moving, and to stay hydrated, because laying down and
resting is causing bacterial pneumonia with this particular strain.
Mr. Lincoln reminded board members to start thinking about whether they want to be reappointed to
the board. Mr. Guenard, Ms. DiGiacomo, and Ms. Lincoln's terms are up this year.
Mr. Lincoln also expressed his gratitude for Selectman Jamie Toale's advocacy for the Lunenburg Council
on Aging with the Board of Selectmen.
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT At 10:55 a.m., Ms. Dwyer motioned to adjourn, Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote,
motion carried unanimously.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Next meeting: Tuesday, March 13, 2018 at 9:30 a.m.
