===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Jacquelyn Dwyer, Jane Rabbitt, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Deb Lincoln, Sarah Grant
Absent: Brian Guenard
GUESTS: none
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Doherty announced that Ms. Dwyer's nomination to the Montachusett Home
Care Board of Directors was accepted.
An article proposing to change the title of Outreach Worker to Outreach Coordinator, and to increase
the salary by one step was passed at Annual Town Meeting, and will take effect on July 1, 2018.
Ms. Doherty was contacted by the Duxbury COA to become a representative for the Montachusett
Region to the Massachusetts Councils on Aging.
Ms. Doherty also informed the board that longtime, Eagle House Supporters member and volunteer Sue
Cioffi was in a car accident, but is doing OK, and is in a rehabilitation facility in Worcester.
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. DiGiacomo moved to approve minutes from the April 10, 2018 COA meeting,
Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Director's Report:
• Board Member Term Renewal: Ms. DiGiacomo and Ms. Lincoln's reappointment
forms have been submitted to the Board of Selectmen. One seat on the board will
be officially vacant as of July 1, 2018.
• COA Volunteer Appreciation Cookout Date: The date has been set for Friday,
September 7, 2018. Awards will be handed out at 11:30 a.m. Ms. Doherty will ask
the Lunenburg Police and Fire Departments if they'll cook hamburgers and hot dogs.
Mr. Lincoln volunteered to obtain a Tony the Tiger award for the volunteer with the
most hours.
• Tri-Town Landing Proposed Senior Housing: No report.
• Age/Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty and Ms. Rabbitt will attend an
informational meeting on Age/Dementia Friendly Communities on May 25, 2018.
Ms. Doherty also commented that the monthly Alzheimer's Caregiver Support
Group hasn't been well attended, and will begin hosting a "Memory Café" in
September, which features speakers, and will need sponsors. Ms. Rabbitt added
that the time of day the event takes place could affect attendance.
• SNAP: Ms. Doherty attended a mandatory meeting for SNAP, and there was no new
information to report.
• MART: No report.
Building Report: With Formula Grant funds, Ms. Doherty purchased a new bench for
the front of the building, and ordered new chairs for the porch. She is also talking
===PAGE 2===
given her notice and will step down to on-call status as of July 1, 2018. Ms. Doherty
is waiting for approval from the Town Manager to advertise the opening, as she has
also requested to move Kitchen Assistant Judy Alario's salary over to the Formula
Grant in order to hire one Meal Site Manager to work four days, 19.5 hours per
week.
• Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty highlighted upcoming events for May 2018.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: Longtime Eagle House Supporters members Bill and Amy Leet
made a $1,000 donation to the COA Gift Fund. Ms. Doherty spoke with the Leets and sent a Thank You
note.
BOARD COMMENT: Ms, Grant commented that all who rode the COA van to the Art in Bloom exhibit at
the Fitchburg Art Museum had a great time, and hopes that can happen again at next year's show.
Ms. Rabbitt suggested holding a Kentucky Derby themed party next year. Ms. Grant added that she
could do a derby craft class.
Ms. Rabbitt also suggested holding an Olympic-type event with Bocci, horse shoes, cribbage, Wii, and
other popular Eagle House activities.
Ms. Lincoln informed the board that Lunenburg Public Access has submitted their film featuring Eagle
House volunteer Elsa Watson to a film contest, and the film made it to the tinals.
Ms. Nowd commented that the Bridges Together program is going very well, and hopes there will be
more interest in the fall in order to open the program to all the fifth grade classes.
PUBLIC COMMENT none
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting at 9:50 a.m., Ms. Dwyer seconded.
On vote, motion carried unanimously.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Next meeting: Annual Meeting, Tuesday, June 12, 2018 at 9:30 a.m.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 25 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
