===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
June 12, 2018 Annual Meeting 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Jacquelyn Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant 
 
Absent: Brian Guenard   
 
GUESTS:  Board of Selectman liaison Jamie Toale 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln congratulated the board for having six members with perfect attendance this year, and 
also commented that there are currently no Talent Bank forms on file at Town Hall that indicate interest in volunteering 
on the Lunenburg Council on Aging. 
 
Mr. Toale thanked the board for the opportunity to serve as liaison between the Board of Selectmen and the Council on 
Aging, and asked for feedback to bring to the Selectmen in order to assist in clearly defining the role of a liaison, as well 
as attracting more people to volunteer, training of volunteers, and improving communication between boards and 
committees and the Board of Selectmen. Mr. Toale explained that he thinks the relationship between the COA and the 
Selectmen is a good one, and can serve as an example for the rest of town to follow.  Mr. Lincoln pointed out that the 
skill sets of the different boards in town vary, and inquired as to how to advertise what a member of the COA actually 
does. Mr. Toale responded that a common place to find out about the various boards and committees in town is not 
available currently.  
The COA, as a whole, welcomed Mr. Toale to come back and serve as liaison for the upcoming fiscal year. Ms. Lincoln 
expressed her gratitude to Mr. Toale, and pointed out that not all boards and committees in town take advantage 
having a liaison to the Board of Selectmen. 
 
Ms. Lincoln announced that she attended an Eagle House Supporters Inc. meeting as the COA’s liaison, and while going 
over the minutes from their previous meeting, one member suggested that Ms. Lincoln should’ve been given permission 
to speak. Ms. Lincoln asked the COA to support her by making a request that the Eagle House Supporters Inc. include on 
their agenda a place for a COA liaison report. Mr. Lincoln commented that he thought the Supporters and the COA were 
on the same team. Mr. McNally pointed out that if the Supporters’ liaison attended the COA meetings regularly they 
might realize the two groups are on the same page. Mr. McNally suggested inviting anyone who has issues to a COA 
meeting. Ms. Doherty pointed out that issues between COAs and supporter groups are not unique to Lunenburg. The 
annual meeting of the Eagle House Supporters is not well attended, according to Ms. Doherty. Ms. Moisan commented 
that the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors’ monthly meeting is always well attended because their members see what their 
dues pay for at each meeting.  Ms. Doherty said that the Eagle House Supporters sponsor most of the programs at the 
Eagle House, and they’re recognized on posters, in press releases, and during the programs they sponsor. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo moved to approve the minutes from the May 14, 2018 meeting, Ms. Dwyer 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 
 Patron Complaint about Senior Center Scheduling:  A Stitch and Chat participant has expressed that 
she feels Stitch and Chat is getting bumped too often between programs that take up the room 
where Stitch and Chat usually meets, and Monday holidays. Ms. Doherty commented that programs 
are always shifting at the Eagle House. Stretch and Tone gets canceled once a month because of the 
Pancake Breakfast, Book Club meets on the Tuesday following any Monday holiday that falls in the 
third week of the month. On Some Tuesdays even Ms. Doherty gives up her own office for the grief 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
August 14, 2018 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
support councilor that comes once a month. Ms. Grant, who attends Stitch and Chat regularly, 
commented that the complainant has brought up other kinds of issues in a book club that meets at 
the Lunenburg Public Library. Ms. Moisan said the individual complained to her about the activity 
schedule and urged her to bring it up to the COA. Mr. Lincoln determined the person has a personal 
problem and the board agreed they would support Ms. Doherty however she decides to deal with 
the complaint. 
 Meal Site Manager Position: Ms. Doherty reported that three people applied for the position, and 
Meals on Wheels Driver Sandra Ricci was hired. Kitchen Aide Judith Alario will fill in until July 1, 
2018. 
 Formula Grant: The grant money for FY 18 has all been spent, according to Ms. Doherty. Any 
mileage money not collected by Meals on Wheels drivers will be turned back to the town. The 
Formula Grant for FY 19 has been projected for $11.00 per elder, which is still a raise from last year’s 
grant; however, the budget has not been signed by Governor Charlie Baker, so that number could 
still change. Ms. Doherty is ready for three likely scenarios where funding is concerned, and also 
pointed out that two meal site assistants are paid out of the Formula Grant.  
 State Capital Plan 25K designated to Eagle House Senior Community Center for HVAC Repair:  
Senator Dean Tran advocated for the Eagle House and designated $25,000 to repair the HVAC 
system in the older part of the building. 
 Election of COA officers for FY 19: Ms. Lincoln moved to nominate Pete Lincoln as Chairperson, and 
Jacquelyn Dwyer as Vice Chairperson for a term of one year.  Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  “We are all chairmen on this committee. Everyone participates,” Mr. Lincoln 
said. 
 Recommendation to Board of Selectmen to reappoint Deb Lincoln and Betty DiGiacomo: Ms. 
Doherty reported that the Selectmen already reappointed Ms. Lincoln and Ms. DiGiacomo to the 
COA. Mr. Toale commented that the Selectmen are working toward improving the reappointment 
process. 
 Bridges Together: Ms. Nowd reported that the program was successful, and that the fifth graders 
involved now have a whole new perspective of “seniors.”  When asked about what it means to be 
old, the kids said nothing of wrinkles or slowing down, but talked about being wise and having 
experience instead. Ms. Nowd said after hearing about the program, it’s likely more people will 
volunteer for the fall session. The goal is to get enough volunteers to span the entire fifth grade class 
at Turkey Hill Elementary School.  
 Tri Town Landing Proposed Senior Housing: Ms. Doherty said the Tri-Town senior housing project 
was recently approved by the Lunenburg Planning Board after appeasing abutters who were 
concerned about the height of the buildings. Mr. Lincoln suggested members of the COA go to the 
complex when it’s finished so new residents can learn about the Eagle House, and what the COA has 
to offer. 
 Age/Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty and Ms. Rabbitt attended a seminar on Dementia 
Friendly Communities, which featured a speaker who has dementia. The speaker talked about how 
welcomed she felt, at 53 years old, to a senior center exercise class. Ms. Doherty plans to attend a 
“Percolator Meeting” in Waltham about Memory Cafes. Ms. Doherty said she also spoke with the 
Lunenburg Business Association about Lunenburg becoming a Dementia Friendly Community at the 
Arts Festival in Lunenburg over the weekend. Ms. Doherty also reported that Emily Kearns 
coordinator for Dementia Friendly Massachusetts would attend a Department Head meeting to talk 
about prepping the community to become Dementia Friendly. 
 SNAP: Ms. Doherty reported she received $71.00 from the first quarter, and hasn’t heard back 
about second or third quarter reports. Ms. Doherty expressed her frustration due to the lack of 
communication from UMass, and is considering leaving the UMass program. The Eagle House will 
still be able to provide assistance with SNAP applications, as anyone in the general public can access 
the SNAP website and apply on their own.  
 MART: No report 
 Building Report: The side door of the main entrance now has an accessible push-button door 
opener. Ms. Doherty purchased new porch furniture with Formula Grant funds. Landscapers, 
===PAGE 3===
contracted through the town, recently mowed over two lily plants in the Eagle House garden. Helen 
Balcom, the gardener paid by the Eagle House Supporters, was very upset when she saw the plants, 
and put cages around them to protect them from further damage.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: None 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:53 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.    
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, August 14, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. 