===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Grant, Diane Nowa, Jane Rabbitt, Brian Guenara, Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Kevin McNally
Absent: none
GUESTS: none
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mrs. Lincoln explained that Vice Chair Jacquelyn Dwyer would run today's meeting
citing that Mr. Lincoln had laryngitis. Ms. Grant commented on the new furniture in Bucky's Corner. Ms.
Doherty added that an older chair Edie Gay donated complements the set. Mr. Lincoln was able to
express his opinion that the Boston Post Cane ceremony was "terrific."
MINUTES APPROVAL: Judy Tarbell commented that her name was left off the absent list of the last
meeting. Ms. DiGiacomo moved to approve the minutes from the March 20, 2018 meeting as amended,
Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. Mr. Lincoln also asked about the Yellow
Dot Program. Ms. Doherty showed the board the materials used for the program and gave a brief
description. Ms. Dwyer stressed the importance of Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment
(MOLST) forms, which is a list that must be printed on bright pink paper, signed by a physician, which
describes a person's preference to treatment under life-threatening circumstances. Ms. Dwyer also said
she'd would serve on the Montachusett Home Care Board of Directors, and would be sending a copy of
her resume to Ms. Doherty,
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Director's Report:
• Formula Grant Update: Ms. Doherty reported that she received an update from the
MCOA, and was given a scale of potential outcomes on the amount of the FY19
Formula Grant. A cut was deemed "unlikely," level funding at $9.70 per elder was
also deemed "unlikely," $11 per elder - "possible," $11.70 per elder -"likely," and
the originally proposed $12 per elder was deemed "possible."
• Board Member Term Renewal: Mr. Guenard told the board he would not request to
be reappointed for another term. Mr. Lincoln said he would check the talent bank
forms at Town Hall. Mrs. Lincoln thanked Mr. Guenard for serving on the board.
•
Montachusett Home Care: Ms. Doherty informed the board that MHC has been
sending donation requests that are marked "invoice," for many years, even though
MHC is state funded, Ms. Doherty said she has replied to the request with a letter
stating that the COA budget wouldn't allow for a donation to the agency in the past.
Ms. Doherty informed the Executive Office of Elder Affairs ombudsman Sherri Sore
about the letters. A letter was sent to MHC, and MHC responded saying they would
remove the term "invoice" from future donation requests, realizing it may be
confusing to new directors. Ms. Doherty said she knows of at least one senior center
that has been paying the "invoice" out of their COA budget. Ms. Doherty pointed
out that having someone from the Lunenburg COA on the board at MHC would help
===PAGE 2===
been no other information on the project.
•
Age/Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty will be attending a seminar on
age and dementia friendly communities on May 25, 2018.
•
SNAP: Ms. Doherty reported that the town was reimbursed $75.00 for the COA
effort on SNAP. The program has not turned out to be as popular as originally
anticipated. Ms. Doherty did discover that the rules for reimbursement have relaxed
since the program started, so there may be a greater return after the next quarterly
report is submitted.
MART Report: no report
•
Building Report: Ms. Doherty talked about the new furniture she picked out with
Marie Burchfield, which was paid for by the Eagle House Supporters.
Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty went over upcoming May events at the Eagle
House.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: none
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln thanked the office staff for being warm and welcoming to Eagle House
guests.
PUBLIC COMMENT: none
ADJOURNMENT: Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting at 10:20 a.m. Mr. Lincoln seconded. On
vote, motion carried unanimously.
RECEIVED & FILED
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Next meeting Tuesday, May 8, 2018 at 9:30 a.m.
MAY 31 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
