===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                           
Meeting Minutes  
December 10, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Vice chairperson Jane Rabbitt, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Judy 
Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Susan O’Sullivan  
 
Absent:  Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, Diane Nowd, Barbara Brown, John Pesenti 
 
GUESTS:  Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Doherty informed the board that kitchen aide Judy Alario passed away on 
Thanksgiving. Ms. Rabbitt requested a moment of silence. Ms. Doherty also announced that COA van 
driver Helen Godin resigned from her position. Ms. Nowd informed the board that Mr. Pesenti is in the 
hospital after a fall. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. O’Sullivan motioned to approve the minutes of the November 12, 2019 
meeting. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: The board decided to forward this topic to 
the next meeting when hopefully more members could be present. 
 
2. COA Bylaws vs. Policies and Procedures: The board decided to forward this topic to the next 
meeting when hopefully more members could be present. 
 
3. Director Report:  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported the outdoor shuffleboard court has been 
covered with a tarp to protect the court from the winter weather. Ms. Doherty also 
reported that DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz has been by the Eagle House taking 
measurements for the proposed parking lot near the playground.  
 Town of Lunenburg Senior Tax Work-Off Program: Ms. Doherty reported the 
committee has received six applications, two of which are new people to the 
program. The committee will meet in January to discuss the applications. New 
positions for the program include monitoring in the schools, and a minute taker for 
town boards and commissions.  
 Director Grade and Step Increase: Ms. Doherty informed the board that at Special 
Town Meeting, Selectman Michael Ray Jeffrey proposed to amend the warrant that 
was read at Town Meeting to reflect what was written in the warrant that was 
distributed to households before the meeting, which put the Council on Aging’s 
director position at a Step 14. The amendment was approved by the Town. 
 Memory Café Lending Library: Ms. Doherty reported that she purchased books 
written specifically for elders with dementia with grant money from the Greater 
Lowell Community Foundation and the Community Foundation of North Central 
Massachusetts. The concept of the library is to make it available at the Memory 
Unanimously approved by  
COA at January 14, 2020 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Café, participants will take the book out, and then return it at the next Memory Café 
the following month. Ms. O’Sullivan inquired whether there would be books 
available to the caregivers as well.  
 Lunenburg Care and Kinship Group - Grandparents Raising Grandchildren: Ms. 
Doherty reported the first meeting of the support group will take place at the Eagle 
House on January 27, 2020 at 10:00 a.m. 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty briefly went over upcoming events scheduled at the 
Eagle House in January. The January Newsletter will highlight the differences 
between the Council on Aging, the Eagle House Supporters, and the Lunenburg 
Friendly Seniors. Also included in the upcoming newsletter is a handout with facts 
concerning real estate tax deferment information for seniors. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: In Ms.Lincoln’s absence, Ms. Burchfield reported that the Eagle 
House Supporters are currently running their ping pong ball fifty/fifty raffle, which will be drawn at the 
New Year’s Eve Party. Ms. Burchfield is also planning on cleaning out the cupboards in the old kitchen 
that have been labeled as belonging to the Supporters. Ms. Burchfield also mentioned that the Eagle 
House Supporters’ Board has two vacancies.  
 
NOTES AND COMMUNICATIONS: None 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Rabbitt inquired whether Montachusett Health Care would be looking for a 
new member of their board since former COA member Jacquelyn Dwyer resigned. Ms. Doherty replied 
that it’s Montachusett Health Care that makes that decision.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  At 10:07 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Moisan seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
Next meeting is Tuesday, January 14, 2020 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Amanda Koeck 