===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
June 11, 2019 
Annual Meeting 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Jacquelyn Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Barbara Brown 
Absent:   
 
GUESTS:  Chris Bibby, John Pesenti, Susan O’Sullivan, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln informed the board that Clarence Goguen, the current Boston Post Cane recipient, has 
passed away.  Mr. Lincoln suggested waiting until fall to talk about the next person to receive the award.  
Ms. Doherty informed the board that former COA member Isabel Gallagher passed away.  
Ms. Nowd said the wrap-up of the Bridges Together program at the Eagle House with the teachers, students, and seniors 
that participated went very well, and that Outreach Coordinator Pauline Roy did a great job with the program. Ms. Nowd 
said she heard some teachers say that their students wrote about Bridges in their end of year project.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to accept the minutes from the May 14, 2019 COA Meeting, Ms. Dwyer 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report: Ms. Doherty said she is waiting for all stats to come in from FY 19 before she gives an end 
of year report.  
 Property Tax Work-Off: Ms. Doherty reported that raises for the program will come into effect on 
July 1, 2019. Those currently participating in the program will have the option to take the increase 
for the rest of the calendar year. Ms. Lincoln asked about when the U.S. Federal Census goes out, 
and how to get people to fill it out so Lunenburg will be credited for the expected increase in the 
amount of senior citizens.  Mr. Pesenti suggested contacting the school to see if an announcement 
can be posted on the sign out front of Lunenburg Middle High School. Ms. Rabbitt suggested asking 
a member of the Select Board to make an announcement at their meetings. 
 
 Montachusett Opportunity Council (MOC) Nutrition: Ms. Doherty said the Eagle House will 
continue to serve soup and sandwiches provided by MOC on Wednesdays. 
 
 Discussion: Lunenburg Salary Admin. Plan pertaining to COA Director Grade/Step Increase: Mr. 
Lincoln read a letter in support of advancing the director position from Grade 11 to 14, which 
highlights Ms. Doherty’s accomplishments and responsibilities thus far, and also points out that a 
higher salary would attract the right candidate for the position in the future. 
 
 Status of $25K Bond Bill for HVAC: Ms. Doherty reported that the Town Manager was contacted in 
the beginning of June and informed that the money from the bond bill must be spent by the end of 
June, and that an additional $40,000 was added. Though the DPW has been working on getting 
quotes, it doesn’t seem possible to get all the quotes needed, and get the project finished in less 
than a month. Ms. Doherty reported the HVAC will still be replaced, regardless of the situation with 
the bond bill funds.  
 
 Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) Walkability Audit for Town Center: Ms. 
Doherty and Ms. Lincoln attended the audit. Ms. Doherty said that a lot of people attended and 
were split into groups. Ms. Doherty’s group included a woman in a wheel chair, who was able to 
point out the issues with crosswalks, and sidewalks that are not wheel chair accessible. Ms. Doherty 
Unanimously approved by COA at July 2, 2019 meeting.  
===PAGE 2===
reported that the idea of flipping part of Kids Kingdom to make more parking is being considered, as 
well as a sidewalk for Memorial Drive. Ms. Lincoln said one member of the Select Board in 
attendance voiced an opinion against the parking lot for lack of safety for the children playing in the 
playground. The board was urged to share their opinions about additional parking and walkability in 
the town center with Sherri Bean of MRPC via email. Sherri Bean’s email address is 
sbean@mrpc.com. 
 
 Vote FY 20 COA Officers: Ms. DiGiacomo moved to nominate Ms. Lincoln as the COA Chairperson, 
and Ms. Rabbitt as Vice Chairperson beginning FY 2020, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
 Vote to Recommend to Lunenburg Select Board New COA Board Members: Mr. Lincoln introduced 
Helen Christine Bibby to the board. Ms. Bibby informed the board that she’s interested in serving on 
the Council on Aging and has a background working with senior citizens as a social worker. Ms. Bibby 
said she has worked for Montachusett Home Care and Clinton Hospital, and that she is interested in 
learning more about Dementia Friendly Lunenburg. Mr. Lincoln pointed out that there are more 
candidates than vacancies on the board this year, and added that Ms. O’Sullivan has been waiting 
for an opening for five years. The three candidates decided to step out of the room while the board 
discussed their recommendation to the Select Board. Mr. Lincoln opined that he wished there were 
three spots open to take on all three candidates and the rest of the board agreed. Ms. DiGiacomo 
moved to recommend Mr. Pesenti and Ms. O’Sullivan to the Select Board to appoint to the Council 
on Aging, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. Mr. Lincoln also reminded the 
board that the Select Board is not required to take the COA’s suggestion, and they may still choose 
to appoint someone else to the board. Ms. Lincoln asked the board’s permission to request the 
Select Board put the COA appointments first on their agenda, and the board agreed.  
 
 Dementia Friendly Lunenburg: Ms. Rabbitt reported that the Dementia Friendly Community Kick-
Off was a success. Ms. Doherty added that six new people attended the Memory Café who attended 
the event.  Ms. Doherty also said there would be a Dementia Friendly table at the car show with 
information.  
 
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported she replaced the tables usually used for Bingo with new light 
weight plastic tables, which will be much easier to set up and break down. A color laser printer was 
also purchased with formula grant funds.  
 
 Shuffleboard Court: Ms. Lincoln reported that Eagle House Supporters member David Dorren found 
someone who could finish the court for $850.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty talked about upcoming events at the Eagle House. 
 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Lincoln gave thank you cards to Mr. Lincoln, Ms. Dwyer, and Mr. McNally for serving on the 
board. Mr. Lincoln also thanked Mr. McNally and Ms. Dwyer and said that they were both very helpful in different ways.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:40 Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next meeting Tuesday, July 2, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 