===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
February 12, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, Jacquelyn Dwyer, 
Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown 
 
Absent:  Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Sarah Grant 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield, Gaynor Grieci 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln asked the board for a moment of silence in remembrance of Arnie Rill who passed 
away recently. He was a Meals on Wheels driver for many years. Ms. Doherty announced that the Eagle House would be 
closing all programs in the afternoon due to the weather. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Nowd motioned to approve the minutes from the January 8, 2019 meeting. Ms. Rabbitt 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
The minutes of the January 8 meeting were discussed among board members. Mr. Lincoln said he felt as if the 
board was “blindsided” by the attendance of the students organizing the park, Town Manager Heather Lemieux, and 
DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz at the last meeting, and repeated his concerns about the location of the park regarding 
traffic, the potential of Town Hall offices moving to the T.C. Passios, and the reasoning behind the importance of the 
park’s visibility. Ms. Dwyer commented that she wished she could have been at the last meeting, and opined that given 
the visibility of the proposed location, people using the park would be better behaved than they would if the park were 
less visible.  Ms. Nowd urged those against the idea of the park to look for the positive aspects. Ms. Brown asked what 
happened to the skateboard park at Marshall Park, and Ms. Tarbell asked what was wrong with Marshall Park for a 
location. Ms. Doherty commented on the way people drive up and down Memorial Dr., and the parking on both sides of 
the road, and stated that if town offices are to relocate to the T.C. Passios, traffic on Memorial Dr. will surely increase. 
Mr. Toale commented that the Building Reuse Committee has proposed to use the T.C. Passios as a municipal building, 
and to keep the gymnasium and cafeteria open for community use.  Further steps in engineering the possibility will be a 
topic at the next Annual Town Meeting. Meanwhile, meetings involving various town boards and commissions, town 
employees, and abutters are in the works. Mr. Toale referred to the skateboard park as “a dream the Board of 
Selectmen are supporting,” but also pointed out that the funds are not there yet. Mr. Toale also opined that the Board 
of Selectmen are trying to look for ways to make the park work, as opposed to looking for ways that it won’t work. Ms. 
Lincoln expressed her fear, as a senior who doesn’t see very well, is that she won’t see pedestrians as she’s pulling onto 
the road.  Mr. Toale commented that Memorial Drive is on the top of the list when it comes to the state sponsored 
“Complete Streets” program, but also reminded the board that the town was not awarded the grant last year. Ms. 
Rabbitt commented that the kids who want the park are so positive, and she doesn’t want to dash their hopes. Ms. 
Brown added that as plans for the center of town progress, the board should have a better look at the big picture in due 
time. Mr. Lincoln reminded the board that the Council on Aging’s task is to focus on the safety and well-being of the 
senior citizens of Lunenburg, and not on its youth.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Bridges Together: Ms. Doherty reported the training meeting may be disrupted given the weather 
forecast, and informed the board that eight more volunteers are needed. Ms. Nowd pointed out 
that winter is a tough time of year for volunteers to commit, and that she hopes the program 
doesn’t die because some people have badmouthed the program. Ms. Doherty commented that 
maybe three times a year is too many sessions, and maybe next year it should just be held in fall and 
spring. Ms. Nowd added that changing the day from Monday to Tuesday was challenging for her 
because she had to change a lot of appointments around to make things work, but also pointed out 
that students should be better prepared before class starts, as opposed to coming off the weekend.  
Unanimously approved by the COA at 
March 12, 2019 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Finance Committee meeting/FY20 Budget 2/21/2019 @ 7p.m.:  Ms. Doherty requested Mr. 
Lincoln’s presence at the meeting, and informed the board she would only be asking for $100 more 
than last year to cover the donation to the Montachusett Opportunity Council for meal services.  
 Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty reported she found out that Eagle House requests were included in the 
capital plan after it was released online. An HVAC quoted at $45,000 is on the list for FY22, 
reconfiguring the main entrance is quoted for $88,000 in FY22, a generator for the entire building is 
quoted for $75,000 in FY24, building automation is quoted for $25,000 in FY26, and a new boiler is 
quoted for $22,000 in FY22.  
 Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Rabbitt reported that she went to the Marlboro Senior Center 
with Keith Lanzilotti, the Memory Café facilitator, and that she got some ideas, such as distributing a 
questionnaire among the faith-based community. Ms. Rabbitt explained that that’s how Marlboro 
got started with the dementia/age friendly concept. Ms. Doherty added that she asked the pastor 
from St. Boniface to attend the next task force meeting to collaborate with Ernie Farrar, who is 
currently on the task force. Ms. Rabbitt also brought up the dementia friendly logo, and was told 
that there is a nationwide logo of a forget-me-not flower design, but opined she’d like to find a way 
to incorporate the designs Lunenburg students have created. Ms. Dwyer added that the medical 
community uses purple angels, originated by the Alzheimer’s Association, to identify hospital 
patients who have dementia. Ms. Doherty commented that any entity that hangs a dementia 
friendly sign on their door should be properly trained as “dementia friendly.” 
 Memory Café/Grant Award: Ms. Doherty reported she received a $5,000 grant from the Greater 
Lowell Community Foundation and the Community Foundation of North Central Massachusetts. Ms. 
Doherty and Keith Lanzilotti will be attending a meeting of the Ayer Rotary, as well as a Jewish 
Family Services percolator meeting. They will be giving a power point presentation on how the 
Memory Café has been developing in Lunenburg.  According to Ms. Doherty, people will be 
attending the Jewish Family Services meeting from various locations via Skype.  
Ms. Doherty reported that the January café didn’t go as planned because the guests were 
actually soliciting their wares to those attending. It was made aware to Joy Memory and her partner 
that the Memory Café is not the right atmosphere for selling items, and that Ms. Doherty was under 
the impression the women were only going to teach and talk about essential oils. 
 The Central Massachusetts Agency on Aging was also in attendance to present their $500 grant 
check to Ms. Doherty. Ms. Doherty thanked everyone who volunteers at the café to make it such a 
success. Ms. Rabbitt commented that Ms. Doherty does a great job with setting up, and 
transforming the Eagle House into an appropriate venue for guests.  
 Shuffleboard Court: Mr. Lincoln said he can’t think of a reason why someone can’t be found to 
finish the project, and that he’d like to have things that younger, more able-bodied seniors can do. 
Ms. Doherty commented that she’s invited the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors to have their annual 
summer BBQ at the Eagle House this year, and using the shuffleboard court could be a nice feature. 
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported she is still waiting to hear from the DPW on the backs of the 
signs that direct people to the Eagle House.  The senior property tax work-off person is back to 
supplement the cleaning of the interior of the building.  
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced the Eagle House will be hosting a basic American Sign 
Language tutorial for town employees, based on a suggestion from Eagle House patron Wendy 
Newcomb. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that Marie Burchfield chaired the last meeting as the 
president was out of town. Ms. Doherty requested funds for a 60-inch television for the many upcoming programs that 
need a big screen display at the Supporters meeting. Ms. Lincoln also reported that the donation envelopes to be 
distributed to funeral homes were not proofread, and need to be reprinted after corrections are made. Ms. Lincoln also 
gave an update on the World Series Trophy. The trophy was originally slated to arrive sometime in April, but the father 
of the man who is in charge of the trophy is very ill, so a date has yet to be determined. Ms. Lincoln informed the board 
to let Ms. Burchfield know of any “in memory of” donations made so she can list them on a page for the summer 
newsletter. Ms. Lincoln also reported that the horticultural students are willing to help with the raised garden beds, but 
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Doherty reminded the board that the garden grows over summer vacation and the students won’t be available. Ms. 
Burchfield commented that only those who weed the garden should be allowed to reap its bounty.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Doherty informed the board that Meal Site Manager Sandy Ricci, and Outreach 
Coordinator Pauline Roy have received their “Serve-Safe” certificates. 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Rabbitt asked if there was anything that could be done about the acoustics in the room where 
the Memory Café is held, and suggested a request for baffles in the capital plan. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Toale announced that Annual Town Meeting will include the Charter Review, and many other 
topics, which will extend the meeting from Saturday, May 4, and continue to Monday, May 6, 2019.  
 
ADJOURNMENT: At 11:09 a.m., Ms. Nowd motioned to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, March 12, 2019. 9:30 a.m. 
 
 