===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
GUESTS: Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield
ANNOUNCEMENTS: none
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes of the September 10, 2019 meeting, Mr.
Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. 2020 U.S. Census Presentation: Adriene Queriroz, Partnership Specialist: Ms. Queriroz showed a Power
Point presentation on the 2020 Census, which explained the importance of an accurate count, as well as
changes in how people are being counted in the United States. For the first time, people will be able to
answer the questionnaire online. Ms. Queriroz explained that a letter would go out on March 12, 2020, and
paper questionnaires would go out April 8, 2020, then door-knocking will begin April 12, 2020. Ms. Queriroz
said the numbers from the responses would be forwarded to the President of the United States on
December 31, 2020. Ms. Queriroz claimed that the Census Bureau struggles with getting people to separate
the Census from the U.S. government, and that distrust of the government plays a large role in that struggle.
2020 Census materials can be found by going to census.gov/partners/2020-materials. People can also find
out about the areas that are hard to track by going to census.gov/roam. Mr. Lincoln asked about the content
of the questionnaire, and about how people who are living in the country illegally are being counted, as well
as how people with two residences are supposed to fill out the questionnaires. Ms. Queriroz explained that
there are systems in place for those with two residences, and that there is no question about immigration
status on the Census questionnaire. Ms. Queriroz stressed the importance of all people being counted
regardless of their status. Ms. Rabbitt commented that there seems to be a bigger push to ensure people
are filling out the Census in 2020, more so than years past. Ms. Queriroz responded that seeing the
challenges posed to emergency management systems, an accurate count would assist in how federal funds
are invested to prepare for emergencies. Ms. Lincoln commented on the importance of getting seniors to
fill out their questionnaires in order to ensure needed services are available. Ms. Doherty commented that
members of the Council on Aging are considered ambassadors to senior citizens in town, and also suggested
Ms. Queriroz go in front of the Board of Selectmen during a televised meeting to help spread the word
about filling out the 2020 Census.
2. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: Ms. Lincoln reported that there have been two "mini-
meetings" concerning the orientation packet, and that she also wants to have a meeting with Ms. Doherty
to talk about what exactly needs to be in the new packet, as the current one has some documents in it that
are more than ten years old, which includes the former bylaws, which the board is not allowed to have. Ms.
Doherty explained that what are labeled in the packet as bylaws are actually supposed to be called policies
and procedures. Ms. Doherty also expressed her concern over having "mini-meetings" without posting
agendas or minutes, and advised Ms. Lincoln to consult the Town Clerk. The board agreed they should have
at least some rules put down in writing, such as the meeting time, and an attendance policy. Mr. Lincoln
suggested discussing updates to the packet during the regular monthly COA meetings.
===PAGE 2===
Eagle House Supporters have purchased a new computer. The IT department was able to repair the
computer, but since the touch screen cannot be utilized, the unit is now in the computer room for
public use. Ms. Doherty also reported that DPW employees came to the Eagle House to neaten up
the landscape for the Fall Lawn Party. Hollis Hills Farm in Fitchburg donated apple cider donuts and
apple cider for the event. Ms. Doherty said she saw discussion on Facebook regarding adult
playground equipment, and urged people to come use what's currently on location. Ms. Doherty
also reported that the handicap accessible ramp is now finished being painted, as well as the
pergola and swing, and the bridge connecting the paved walkway to the access ramp.
Tea Party: Ms. Doherty thanked Ms. Grant for another successful tea party, which raised $2,526.
The Eagle House Supporters received $1,000, and $1,526 was donated to the COA Gift Fund and
earmarked for dementia friendly projects. Ms. Grant thanked those who donated their time and
efforts to make the tea party another success, and said her volunteer crew is already prepping for
next year's tea party. Ms. Grant said that people come from everywhere to enjoy the Eagle House
and ask why their senior center isn't as well attended. Ms. Rabbitt added that the tea party would
not be the success that it is if not for Ms. Grant. Video footage of this year's tea party is on YouTube
under Lunenburg Access.
•MCOA Conference: Ms. Doherty reported that she sent Administrative Assistant Amanda Koeck and
Outreach Coordinator Pauline Roy to the conference, which took place in Danvers this year. Ms.
Doherty found out the day before that pictures were being taken with the new Secretary of Elder
Affairs to recognize the communities on their way to becoming dementia friendly, and decided to go
to the conference to be present for the picture as Keith Lanzilotti and Ms. Rabbitt were not available
to represent the town. Ms. Doherty informed the board that a Dementia Friendly training session
for local businesses will be held at the Eagle House on November 14, 2019 from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m.
Chairperson of the Dementia Friendly Committee Keith Lanzilotti has been certified to train people
to become "Dementia Friendly." Ms. Doherty also announced that the Dementia Friendly meetings
have changed from the third Tuesday to the third Monday of each month.
• New COA Van Driver: Ms. Doherty reported that she's hired a new van driver Helen Godin, who is a
recently retired MART driver. She'll be driving on Wednesdays and Thursdays, Jim McGuigan has
dropped down to one day a week, Monday, and Paul Grunditz will drive on Tuesdays and
Wednesdays.
• Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty highlighted upcoming events for the month of October.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that letters were distributed to the 143 members of the
Eagle House Supporters highlighting the successful fund raising attempts in the last year, such as the tickets to see the
Red Sox, the World Series Trophy, the Ham and Bean Supper, various raffles, including what was raised and how funds
were spent. Ms. Burchfield commented that she wrote the letter so those members who don't make it out to the Eagle
House all the time can know how their membership benefits the Eagle House.
===PAGE 3===
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT At 11:09 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried
unanimously.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Tuesday, November 12, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. at the Eagle House Senior Community Center
Respectfully Submitted,
Amanda Koeck
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 2 6 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
