===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
August 13, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, 
Jane Rabbitt, Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Sarah Grant, John Pesenti 
 
Absent:  Susan O’Sullivan 
 
GUESTS:  Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln announced that Ms. Burchfield is sitting in for Chris Bibby, who will be 
taking over as the liaison between the Eagle House Supporters and the Council on Aging. Ms. Lincoln 
wished a happy birthday to those born in August. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes of the July 2, 2019 meeting. 
Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. Mr. Lincoln pointed out that the rocks 
across the street from the Eagle House are still there. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Year End Power Point Presentation: Ms. Doherty presented her end of year report 
to the board, and is on the Board of Selectmen agenda for August 13, 2019. 
Attendance at the Eagle House has increased by 10 percent, various categories have 
been reorganized in order to keep track of statistics, there were more volunteers in 
FY 19 than FY 18, but fewer hours were given. Ms. Doherty attributed that to not 
having AARP volunteers at the Eagle House for taxes. Included in the presentation is 
also a breakdown of the money spent on the Memory Café, which has been funded 
by grants and donations. Ms. Doherty added she’s amazed with the attendance at 
the cafes. Ms. Doherty also included slides on the Eagle House Supporters 
contribution, and the 2020 Federal Census.  
 
 New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: Ms. Lincoln opined the 
orientation packets are “horribly out of date.” Mr. Pesenti and Ms. Rabbitt 
volunteered to review and revise the packets with Ms. Lincoln and Ms. Doherty. 
 
 Boston Post Cane: Ms. Doherty reported that the person listed as the oldest in town 
was Summer Rojas, but her birthday was wrong. The oldest resident is actually Lucy 
Chartrand. A ceremony is to be scheduled for some time in November. 
 
 Lunenburg Salary Admin. Plan pertaining to COA Director Grade/Step Increase: 
Ms. Doherty said she’s received communication from the Town Manager that the 
Personnel Committee is looking favorably toward advancing the step for the 
director position.  
 
Unanimously approved as amended 
by COA at September 17, 2019 
meeting 
===PAGE 2===
 Shuffleboard Court: Ms. Lincoln reported the shuffleboard court is complete, and it 
will be showcased at the Volunteer Appreciation Cookout. 
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported the DPW has found a painter to take care of 
the ramp coming down to the Eagle House from the upper parking lot, as well as the 
pergola, which shelters the swing along the walkway. Repointing the bricks at the 
back of the building is another project that needs to be addressed.  Ms. Doherty also 
reported the Eagle House has received a donated baby grand piano, and that 
musician Adam Bergeron will be playing it at the August Memory Café. Ms. Doherty 
also reported the DPW had their high school interns clean out the recently vacated 
Veterans Agent’s office.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty talked about upcoming events at the senior center 
including the Volunteer Recognition Cookout, Tai Chi, Nirvana, Zumba, Pickle Ball, 
the annual tea party, and the Board of Selectmen “Appointed Board and Officials 
Appreciation Night” on September 19, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. at the Eagle House. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that she attended the Supporters meeting 
on July 12, 2019. According to Ms. Lincoln there are five new sponsors. Volunteers are needed for the 
Ham and Bean Supper on October 19, 2019. Ms. Lincoln also reported the Supporters have a new logo, 
which was designed by Carolyn Poirier.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:36 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Next meeting scheduled for Tuesday, September 10, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Amanda Koeck 
 