===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
November 12, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Director Susan Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, John Pesenti, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent:  Sarah Grant 
 
GUESTS:  Council on Aging liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln wished a happy birthday to all board members who have November birthdays.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln commented that the board took a vote at the October meeting that wasn’t included 
in the minutes. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the October 8, 2019 meeting minutes as amended. Mr. Pesenti 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: Ms. Doherty supplied the board with two handouts 
describing the breakdown of the Massachusetts Elder Network, as well as a chart distinguishing the different 
roles of the COA board members, chairperson, and the director. Board members are to review the handouts 
and discuss what information should go into the new orientation packet at the December meeting.  
 
2. COA Bylaws vs. Polices and Procedures: Ms. Lincoln commented that the Town Charter is minimalist when 
it comes to describing the role of the Council on Aging, and added that COA policies and procedures should 
include meeting times and how to address possible issues, such as absenteeism. 
 
3. Director’s Report:  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that capital planning time and that the following projects will 
be submitted: reconfiguration of the foyer to avoid ice dams, a powerful generator for possible 
power outages, an additional parking lot behind the Eagle House, painting the entire interior of the 
building, remodeling both kitchens, and replacing the rugs. Ms. Doherty added that outside of the 
capital plan, the flooring in both restrooms in the older section of the building need replacing. Mr. 
Pesenti commented on the reconfiguration of the roof above the foyer and highly recommended 
installing a Hunter Cool Vent to help with ice dams. 
 
 Update on Director Salary Grade/Step Increase: Mr. Lincoln reported that a letter supporting the 
director’s grade/step increase was submitted to the Personnel Committee in June of 2019, and that 
the increase was approved and referred to the Board of Selectmen who approved it, as did the 
Finance Committee. The increase was put on the Town Warrant for the town to decide at the 
Special Town Meeting scheduled for November 12, 2019. Mr. Lincoln informed the board that in late 
October a member of the Personnel Committee requested a job description from Ms. Doherty 
claiming they didn’t have one.  According to Mr. Lincoln, Town Manager Heather Lemieux called Ms. 
Doherty to inform her that the portion of the warrant article concerning the director’s step increase 
would be removed because the Personnel Committee didn’t have enough information to conclude 
that the scope of the director’s position has increased. Ms. Lincoln reported that she spoke with a 
member of the Personnel Committee, who was not at the Personnel Committee meeting when they 
decided to remove the director’s step increase from the warrant article. That member then 
consulted the chairperson of the Personnel Committee who called an emergency meeting, which 
Unanimoulsy Approved by COA at 
December 10, 2019 meeting 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln attended, and supplied the committee with two pages listing the work put in to 
additional hours to what the director is paid for, as well as additional responsibilities the position 
has taken on.  According to Ms. Lincoln, three out of five members of the Personnel Committee 
attended the emergency meeting, and the Town Manager was also in attendance. Ms. Lemieux 
opined she thought the position should be increased from 11 to 13, as opposed to 14 for the 
warrant, to which the members of the Personnel Committee agreed.  Ms. Doherty opined she’s not 
opposed to a Step 13. Ms. Lincoln noted that no minutes of the Personnel Committee meetings have 
been posted since April 2019.  Ms. Lincoln also said she’d continue to pursue the matter after the 
Special Town Meeting if needed, and is also looking into changing the current title of COA Director 
to Director of Elder Affairs to better reflect the job description. Ms. Doherty thanked the board for 
their support.  
 
 Sand for Seniors and other Fire Dept. Programming: Ms. Doherty informed the board that the Sand 
for Seniors program had begun for the season, and that Captain Jim Ricci also has combination lock 
boxes for emergency entry available for those who need it.  
 
 Director Medical Leave: Ms. Doherty informed the board she will be out of work from December 13 
to the 31st due to surgery.  
 
 Town of Lunenburg Property Tax Work Off: Ms. Doherty reported that workers have handed in 
their time sheets, which are being processed up at Town Hall. Applications for 2020 are available to 
be filled out, and feature new positions. The Property Tax Work-Off Committee will meet again in 
January to assign positions to workers. 
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty described upcoming programs and events at the Eagle House.  
 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT:  Ms. Lincoln informed the board that the Ham and Bean Supper fundraiser 
brought in $1,200, and that the Supporters’ board is down two members.  Ms. Lincoln also recognized Pat Kennedy for 
sending out cards to people who are bereaved or ill. Ms. Burchfield added that she wants people to know that the Eagle 
House Supporters care about them.  
Ms. Lincoln said a few people have talked about whether there will be another Uptown Stroll, and has suggested that 
those interested in organizing the event to form a committee soon, and possibly schedule the Ham and Bean Supper to 
end the event.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lincoln said he’s been in contact with Lunenburg Police Chief Jim Marino who has been trying 
to contact the person responsible for removing the boulders  from Memorial Drive. 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:53 a.m., Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, December 10,  2019 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Amanda Koeck 