===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
March 10, 2020 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 
 
Present:  Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Pete Lincoln, 
Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Sarah Grant, Susan O’Sullivan 
Absent:  Cheryl Moisan, Jane Rabbitt, John Pesenti 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Michael Ray Jeffreys, Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Pat 
Kennedy 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln announced that the Eagle House was chosen as a pilot site by the 
Massachusetts Council on Aging with Empower Success Corps Fellows to become a “Discovery Site,” 
where recently retired people will be trained to use their professional skills as volunteers to assist the 
community in various ways. Ms. Doherty explained that the program requires two “transition 
navigators” to serve as job coaches, and to market the program, and has Lori-Ann Tessier and Susan 
O’Sullivan in mind to fill those spots.  
Ms. Lincoln also announced that Pat Kennedy will succeed Marie Burchfield as Council on Aging Liaison 
to the Eagle House Supporters. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo moved to approve the minutes of the February 10, 2020 COA 
meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Rebecca Lantry, Lunenburg Historical Commission, Community Preservation Law: Topic 
was not discussed as no one from the Historical Commission was in attendance. 
2. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: Topic not discussed due to lack of 
attendance. 
3. COA Bylaws vs. Policies and Procedures: Mr. Lincoln found some grammatical errors in the 
updated policies. Ms. Brown recalled a discussion from prior years she had been on the 
board about decreasing the amount of members on the board. Ms. Doherty handed out the 
van driver policies and a draft of guidelines for Eagle House Participation, which the board is 
to read and review for the next meeting. Ms. Doherty added that she would also like to 
submit the guidelines to Town Council to review.  
4. Director’s Report:  
 Ms. Doherty informed the board she has hired Property Tax Work-off participant 
Ann Penney to serve as a kitchen aide. Ann will be on both the town’s payroll as well 
as continue to participate in the property tax work-off program. 
 
 Ms. Doherty also informed the board that Eagle Scout candidate Alex Powers has 
completed his project and supplied the Eagle House with two handmade octagon 
shaped picnic tables, which allow wheelchair access. According to Ms. Doherty, Mr. 
Powers raised the money to build the tables by making dog biscuits and selling 
them, and also donated the surplus money he raised to the Eagle House Supporters.  
Mr. Jeffreys asked for Mr. Powers’s contact information so the Board of Selectmen 
could send along their appreciation for his good deed. 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
6/9/2020 meeting via Zoom. 
===PAGE 2===
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty informed the board that the former AC units in the old 
section of the building have been replaced with new units which provide AC as well 
as heat.   
Ms. Doherty reported that the rotted porch boards are to be replaced with Trex 
composite decking, and have been ordered and received, but the color of the Trex 
does not match the existing painted porch floor. The floor will be painted to match 
the Trex.  Mr. Lincoln asked if grit could be added to the paint to provide a non-slip 
surface to the porch.  
 
Ms. Doherty reported that she recently learned the renovation of the newer kitchen 
is being funded by the FY21 Capital Plan. 
 
Ms. Doherty informed the board that the green bench that used to sit on the porch 
has been discarded as it has rotted away after 22 years.  
 
Ms. Doherty also reported that she has moved the large retractable presentation 
shade from the old section of the building to the big room.  
 
Mr. Lincoln added that the shed will need a second coat of stain.  
 
Ms. Doherty also reported she’s spoken with Lunenburg Police Chief Jim Marino, 
and has found that Tanner Cole’s mother is against removing the small boulders 
along Memorial Drive. Mr. Jeffreys said that he is looking for a friendly way to treat 
the issue, and pointed out that the small boulders also pose a risk when plowing 
Memorial Drive after snow storms. Mr. Jeffreys also suggested the Council on Aging 
send a letter to Mr. Cole’s mother requesting removal of the small boulders. Ms. 
Doherty pointed out that when the Complete Streets project starts on Memorial 
Drive, there will probably be no room for the boulders anymore.  
 
Mr. Lincoln mentioned the idea of the new parking lot, and how much backlash the 
Supporters received when they tried to make it happen years ago, and asked about 
drainage for storm water runoff, and the issues it would cause for the schools when 
it is built. Ms. Doherty commented that it’s possible that grant money is available to 
take care of drainage as she’s been chosen to serve on a committee that addresses 
the risk associated with natural disasters, and they’ve been discussing how to 
prepare for storm water run-off drainage problems. There will be another meeting 
of that committee at the end of March. 
 
 Ms. Doherty also reported that she met with the new Parks and Recreation Director, 
and they discussed a few town-wide event ideas, as well as painting pickle ball 
regulation lines on the old tennis courts. 
 
 Senior Tax Work-Off: Ms. Doherty reported the committee has decided to raise the 
hourly wage of property tax work-off participants to minimum wage; however the 
maximum amount of money they can earn remains the same at $1,500 per year. 
Although the income eligibility requirement for the program has risen, applications 
are still being denied because the applicants, incomes are still too high, according to 
Ms. Doherty. 
===PAGE 3===
 Upcoming Events:  Ms. Doherty highlighted special events going on at the Eagle 
House for the month of March, and added that the Bridges Together program was 
canceled because there weren’t enough volunteers.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that the Supporters have cleared the 
cabinets of all outdated material in the old kitchen, and will keep one cabinet to store various items of 
general interest. Ms. Lincoln also reported that many monetary donations have been received in 
Lawrence (Lawrie) Montuori’s memory. Ms. Lincoln also thanked Ms. Kennedy for sending out sunshine 
letters to seniors who are ill, or going through challenging times. Ms. Kennedy urged all board members 
to let her know of anyone who is ailing, or who may be in need of a card in the mail to cheer them up. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Mr. Lincoln volunteered to write a letter to be read at the next meeting addressing 
the small boulders on Memorial Drive. Mr. Lincoln also commented that it’s time to make preparations 
for the next recipient of the Boston Post Cane.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT Ms. Lincoln thanked Mr. Jeffreys for standing up for the town’s seniors at Board of 
Selectmen meetings.  
Mr. Jeffreys commented that he has short and long-term goals. As for short-term, he’s looking for ways 
to make the town work environment better for employees, and that he’s working toward the 
development of a Citizen’s Award to recognize the members of the community who exemplify service to 
the community.  As far as long-term, Mr. Jeffreys is aiming to increase revenues, and provided using the 
old town dump for community solar as an example. Mr. Jeffreys also informed the board of a statewide 
program involving eighth graders and civic duty. And rhetorically inquired about what is the appropriate 
age to teach someone about civic involvement.   
 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:45 a.m., Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn the meeting. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, April 14, 2020 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 