===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
January 14, 2020 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Judy Tarbell, 
Sarah Grant, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent:  Jane Rabbitt, Pete Lincoln, Barbara Brown, John Pesenti 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln wished a happy birthday to those members born in January. Ms. Lincoln and Ms. Nowd 
gave updates on COA members struggling with their health. 
Ms. Lincoln suggested holding the discussion of COA board member orientation as well as policies and procedures until 
there are more board members present. 
Ms. Doherty informed the board that the Town is very close to hiring a new COA Van Driver for Thursdays and Fridays, 
and that the Kitchen Aide position has been advertised. 
Ms. Doherty also informed the board that Lunenburg’s Boston Post Cane holder Lucy Chartrand has passed away. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes of the December 10, 2019 meeting, Ms. Grant 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Building Report- HVAC: Ms. Doherty reported that the boiler and air conditioning units are 
being replaced. 
 
 FY21 Council on Aging Budget: The COA FY21 budget from the Town Manager totals $159,813 
to cover salaries, mileage, and supplies. Ms. Doherty is asking for an additional $5,000 from the 
Town this year for program expenses. Ms. Doherty explained that she won’t have the same 
grant opportunities this year as she has had in the past. Ms. Doherty will go before the Finance 
Committee on February 20, 2020 at Town Hall. Mr. Jeffreys inquired about Ms. Doherty’s ideas 
of a nutritionist at the Eagle House, which was discussed at a Board of Selectmen meeting 
concerning the Town’s five-year financial forecast. Ms. Doherty replied that she is still looking 
into job descriptions in order to create the position, that it would be a full-time, benefitted 
position, and that the creation of the position is in its infant stages at this time. Mr. Jeffreys also 
asked about what additional services could be provided at the Eagle House for people who 
aren’t completely independent, but also are not ready to move to an assisted living or nursing 
home facility. Ms. O’Sullivan commented that there is a certification process to go through in 
order to provide additional services, along with additional employees with salaries. Ms. Doherty 
added that people who come to the senior center are welcome to come with personal care 
attendants and home health aides if they need assistance with activities of daily living.  Ms. 
Doherty added that sometimes when outside companies hold programs at the Eagle House they 
offer respite care, and that currently, the senior center’s role in health care is for information 
and referral to places that provide the services that seniors need.  
 
 Town of Lunenburg Property Tax Work-off Program: Ms. Doherty reported the committee has 
received seven applications, and approved five.  Despite the increase in income eligibility, 
earnings, and positions for the program, not many people have applied. Ms. Doherty added that 
there is one person in the program that’s filling three positions. Ms. DiGiacomo commented that 
there may be many seniors who would be interested in volunteering in those positions, but they 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
February 10, 2020 meeting, 
===PAGE 2===
are not property owners and therefore not eligible for the program. Mr. Jeffreys added that he 
asked Town Manager Heather Lemieux to add more positons in the schools to give seniors an 
opportunity to work around students. 
 
 Bridges Together: The Bridges Together Program, designed to bridge the gap between seniors 
and school age children, has been put on hold this session for lack of volunteers, according to 
Ms. Doherty.  Ms. Nowd commented that January is a tough time to get people to commit, given 
the New England weather.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty listed scheduled upcoming events at the Eagle House.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported the Supporters have nominated Lori Ann Tessier to serve on 
their board, and there is still one vacancy. Ms. Lincoln added that Pat Kennedy is doing an excellent job sending out 
cards to those who are ill, grieving, etc. Ms. Burchfield encouraged people to let Ms. Kennedy know who might like a 
card from the Supporters, and added that it’s a nice change to get something in the mail other than bills and sales ads.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:   
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln thanked Mr. Jeffreys for suggesting to keep the warrant article as written at Special 
Town Meeting on November 12, 2019. As a result of Mr. Jeffreys’s suggestion, the director’s grade and step increase 
boosted the position from a Step 11 to a Step 14. 
Ms. Lincoln also asked Mr. Jeffreys if he would bring the boulders on Memorial Dr. to the Selectmen’s attention in hope 
of getting them removed. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:16 a.m., Ms. O’Sullivan motioned to adjourn, Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Amanda Koeck 