===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
February 9, 2021 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:39 a.m. Chairperson Deb Lincoln read a statement concerning the Open Meeting 
Law, and how all public meetings in Massachusetts are legally being held remotely.  This meeting was 
held via Zoom. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Jane Rabbitt, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, 
Diane Nowd, Peter Lincoln, Barbara Brown 
 
Absent:  Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Susan O’Sullivan, John Pesenti 
 
GUESTS:  Select Board member Michael Ray Jeffries 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln moved to approve the minutes from the October 13, 2020 meeting. 
Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: The board agreed they are not 
comfortable with redesigning the new board member orientation packet remotely, and 
would rather wait to meet face to face to discuss their options. Mr. Lincoln asked which 
board members are up for reappointment. 
 
2. COA Bylaws vs. Policies and Procedures: topic tabled until the board can meet in person. 
 
3. COA FY22 Budget Town of Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting 2/18/2021 @ 7 p.m.: 
Ms. Doherty showed her planned presentation to the board, which highlighted 
adjustments made to programs, various grant funding received, and pointed out that the 
COA would not be increasing the amount of money requested except for raises in salaries.  
 
4. Director Report: 
 COVID-19 Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the Town Manager allowed her to 
reallocate budget funds from paying instructors for formerly scheduled in-
person courses to pandemic-friendly events, such as drive-thrus, zoom 
meetings, and new banquet chairs that are easy to clean and sanitize. Ms. 
Doherty informed the board that the office staff has been assisting seniors with 
registering for a vaccine clinic held at Devens, as well as helping find 
appointments elsewhere when the vaccine could no longer be made available 
by the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health.  
 
 Bulk Mailing to Lunenburg Residents 60+: Ms. Doherty showed the board the 
postcard that was sent out from the Eagle House, which briefly described the 
services offered, and contact information.  
Unanimously approved by COA at 
April 13, 2021 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Building and Grounds Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the repair on the roof 
above the main entrance began in November, and had to be stopped because of 
the cold temperatures. The repairs will resume when the weather gets warmer.  
 
Ms. Lincoln added that she distributed a letter to the board  concerning the 
rocks that run along the side of the road on Memorial Drive across from the 
Eagle House. Before sending the letter to the people who put the rocks down, 
Ms. Lincoln was informed by the Town Manager via email that the owner of the 
property that lies under the rocks is still unknown. Ms. Lincoln will hold off on 
sending the letter until more information is shared. Mr. Jeffries commented that 
he thought the property owner would be known by now. 
 
 Town of Lunenburg Senior Tax Work-Off Program: Ms. Doherty informed the 
board that she has resigned from the committee. 
 
 FY22 Formula Grant Funding: Ms. Doherty informed the board that it’s been 
projected by the Massachusetts Councils on Aging that grant funds will be 
reduced to $9 per elder from $12. Ms. Doherty projected that if the funds are 
based on the new 2020 federal census numbers, the total amount of the grant 
would still be an increase from last year, considering there are far more people 
over the age of 60 living in town now as opposed to ten years ago when the 
census was last taken. 
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty highlighted upcoming drive-thru events, and a 
soft  re-opening of  the building for limited seating programs. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln informed the board that the Eagle House Supporters 
will be holding a pet contest fundraiser from February 27 to March 26, 2021.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:   
 
BOARD COMMENT :   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Mr. Jeffries informed the board that he met with the newly elected state 
delegation to discuss how taxes are affecting senior citizens in town, and that they are discussing ideas 
to increase the reimbursement amount for property tax work off programs, as well as creating a tax 
code to help keep seniors in their homes in their towns. 
 
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn at 10:37 a.m. Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
TBD 
 
 