===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
August 9, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:36 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, 
Jane Rabbitt, Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent:  Jacquelyn Dwyer, Jim McGuigan 
 
GUESTS: Select Board Liaison Lou Franco, COA Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marilyn Talley 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  none 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the July 19, 2022 
meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Lunenburg Tax Relief: Ms. Doherty spoke with Principal Assessor CJ Carroll who informed 
her that establishing tax relief for seniors is not a fast process, and pointed out that only two 
towns in Massachusetts actually do provide tax relief for their seniors. Mr. Franco added 
that the town has established a group consisting of Select Board members Tom Alonzo and 
Lou Franco, the Principal Assessor, the Town Manager, and Finance Director Karen Brochu. 
The group is taking into consideration who would be eligible in terms of age, income, and 
assets. Mr. Franco emphasized the importance of getting the relief to those who are most 
deserving, and most in need. Mr. Lincoln asked what other towns do provide tax relief to 
seniors. Mr. Franco responded that Wareham and Andover have tax relief, and suggested 
that the variables between those towns and Lunenburg are very different from each other, 
and Lunenburg will have to devise its own plan. Once the concept is finalized it will need to 
be reviewed by the Select Board and then approved at Town Meeting, and added to the 
Town Charter.  
 
2. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation Packet: Ms. Brown had copies of the 
packet printed, and distributed it to board members to edit. The packet will be discussed at 
the next meeting.  
 
3. Vision for FY23/Senior Center Logo: Ms. Doherty distributed several examples of new logos 
for the senior center, which look to drop the word senior in an attempt to dissolve the 
stigma around aging. Board members agreed that Lunenburg 50+ or Lunenburg Adult 
Activity Center is an improvement from Eagle House Senior Community Center.  
 
4. Publicity for Senior Center: To help draw attention to the Eagle House, board members 
agreed to create a column in the Lunenburg Ledger. Mr. Lincoln volunteered to write 
submissions periodically. Ms. Rabbitt suggested everyone on the board write something 
about their experience at the Eagle House, or the programs in which they participate.  
 
Minutes unanimously approved by 
the COA at September 13, 2022 
meeting.  
===PAGE 2===
 
5. Boston Post Cane: Ms. Doherty reported the last letter she sent out was to another resident 
born in 2022, not 1922.  
 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
 FY22 COA Report: Ms. Doherty is scheduled to give a presentation to the Select Board on August 
23, 2022. She will highlight the increase in programs and participants since FY21.  
 
 FY23 Formula Grant: Ms. Doherty has still not been informed as to whether the grant will 
account for 2020 census numbers. Ms. Lincoln suggested the Town should contribute more 
funding to the Eagle House so Ms. Doherty wouldn’t have to rely so heavily on grant funding, 
especially for employee compensation. 
 
 Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty is waiting on the wiring inspector to get capital projects started. 
 
 Building and Grounds: Ms. Doherty reported engineers drawing up plans for the new ADA patio 
were on site the day before. The freezer either needs to be repaired or replaced. Mr. Lincoln 
asked if any progress had been made on painting the porch. Ms. Doherty replied that a 
contractor has been hired, now she’s waiting to hear on approval of the of the work to be done.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty highlighted upcoming events at the Eagle House. 
 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Board Members welcomed Ms. Talley, and introduced 
themselves. Ms. Talley reported that the Woo Sox ticket raffle brought in $620. The next fundraiser 
they’re looking into is clothing collection for the Epilepsy Foundation. Ms. Talley also invited Ms. 
Doherty and Ms. Lincoln to their next meeting on August 16, 2022 at 10:00 a.m., the Supporters will be 
going over their finances at the meeting. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT Mr. Franco said he’d give an update on the COA at the Select Board meeting. Mr. 
Lincoln commented that in the past, the Select Board were in charge of choosing the Boston Post Cane 
recipient, and suggested looking into the possibility of going back to that.  
 
ADJOURNMENT At 11:00 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, September 13, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. at the Eagle House.  
 
 