===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
May 10, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Peter Lincoln, 
Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Jacquelyn Dwyer 
Absent:  Cheryl Moisan, Jane Rabbitt, Susan O’Sullivan, John Pesenti 
 
GUESTS:  COA Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Pat Kennedy 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln moved to amend the April 12, 2022 minutes to correct the members’ 
attendance, and also to read Ms. Sullivan’s motion as a one-time temporary appointment for two years 
for one seat. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New COA Board Member Orientation Package: More names have been added to the COA 
board member list. Board members also discussed the order of names to be displayed on 
the plaques. Ms. Lincoln will look into plaques that store 100 names.  
2. FY23 COA Board Member terms: Ms. Lincoln informed the board that the Select Board 
office has received reappointment forms from Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. O’Sullivan, Mr. Lincoln, and 
Ms. Tarbell.  Ms. Lincoln also informed the board that the Select Board approved to allow 
the board to reappoint members on a 4-4-3 appointment schedule.  
3. FY23 COA Board Officers: Mr. Lincoln nominated Ms. Lincoln to serve as Chairperson, and 
Jane Rabbitt as Vice Chairperson for FY23, Ms. Nowd seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
4. FY23 New Board Member Recruitment: Ms. Tarbell said she has someone in mind that 
would be a good fit. Ms. Lincoln encouraged other board members to think of people, or 
come up with ways to reach out to people who would be a good fit for the COA.  
5. Director’s Report: Ms. Doherty reported the new van driver started May 5, and so far 
everything is working out.  
 Council on Aging turns 55 celebration: Ms. Doherty will ask Supporters if she can 
use some of the $5,000 granted for the patio for the party instead. Members of 
the police and fire departments will run the grill, Ms. Doherty will rent tents, 
and supply tables and chairs. There will be an ice cream truck, live music, and 
the Supporters will have some sort of fundraiser. Ms. Lincoln will give a speech, 
as will someone from the Select Board. Ms. Doherty will also invite local 
members of the state delegation.  
 FY23 Formula Grant: Ms. Doherty reported that 2020 Census numbers have not 
been finalized, but an unofficial source comes in at 2,700, which should boost 
funding by $7,000. Ms. Doherty also informed the board that MCOA President 
Dave Stevens passed away.  
 Covid-19 Report: no report 
 Building and Grounds Report: Ms. Lincoln asked about the deadline for the 
neighbors to remove the rocks from town property. Mr. Lincoln asked when the 
Approved unanimously by COA at 
June 14, 2022 meeting.  
===PAGE 2===
porch would be repaired. Ms. Doherty informed the board that high school 
National Honor Society Students have helped clean up the grounds and also 
spread mulch.  
 Upcoming Events:  
o Memorial Day Ceremony, Monday May 30, 10:00 a.m. at Veterans 
Memorial Park.  
o Memory Café is back on June 24 with Officer McNamara and Hank the 
therapy dog. 
 
SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Kennedy reported that Supporters board members will be stuffing envelopes 
for their membership campaign, and letters will go out shortly after that. The Hannaford spare change 
fundraiser brought in $254. The Supporters’ next meeting will be June 3, at 10:00 a.m. at the Eagle 
House. There is still one vacancy on the board.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Dwyer thanked the board for welcoming her back. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 11:30 Ms. Dwyer motioned to adjourn, Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday June 14, 2020 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 