===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
March 8, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: Ms. Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Diane Nowd, Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, 
Barbara Brown, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent:  Jane Rabbitt, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, John Pesenti 
 
Guests: Eagle Supporters President Pat Kennedy   
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln declared a moment of silence for COA member Sarah Grant and Boston 
Post Cane recipient Alice Quinn, both of whom passed away since the January meeting.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. O’Sullivan motioned to approve the minutes from the January 11, 2022 
meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation Packet: Ms. Brown and Ms. Doherty 
worked together on developing a summary of the history of the Lunenburg Council on 
Aging. The board agreed to include a list of chairpersons on the board from its inception. 
The board also agreed to commemorate all members of the Council on Aging by listing their 
names on a plaque. Ms. Doherty suggested using money in the Council on Aging Gift Fund to 
purchase the plaque.  
2. FY23 COA Board Member Terms: Five terms are up this June: Mr. Lincoln, Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. 
Tarbell, Ms. O’Sullivan, and Mr. Pesenti. There is one year left of Ms. Grant’s term. Ms. 
Lincoln suggested making Mr. Pesenti an honorary member, as he wants to remain involved 
with the board as much as possible, but recognizes he may not be able to fulfill all the duties 
of a board member. Mr. Lincoln suggested he take the last year of Ms. Grant’s term, in order 
to fill that seat, and open up a full term to a prospective member. Mr. Lincoln, Ms. Tarbell, 
and Ms. O’Sullivan prefer to be re-appointed for another term. Ms. Lincoln visited Town Hall 
to see if they received any Talent Bank Forms, but there were none. Ms. Lincoln volunteered 
to get in touch with the Select Board to discuss staggering the terms as five out of eleven 
members’ terms are up in June.  
3. Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting/COA Budget Review 2/24/22: Ms. Doherty is 
requesting an $11,344.01 increase in the COA budget for FY23. The increase would put 
another $2,000 in the office supply line, $1,358 will go toward the new Meal Site Manager 
position, and $7,985 will go toward the Assistant Meal Site Manager position. Formula Grant 
funds and the municipal budget will fund the Assistant Meal Site Manager position.  Ms. 
Doherty highlighted outside funding from various grants in FY22, along with prospective 
grants for FY23. Ms. Doherty also reviewed senior center stats from FY21. 
4. FY21 Executive Office of Elder Affairs Report: Ms. Doherty informed the board that there is 
a new way of reporting to the EOEA, and restrictions have loosened on how funds are spent. 
Ms. Doherty also reported that the U.S. Census numbers did not come back as anticipated. 
The FY23 Formula Grant should come out to $33,000, based on the $12 per capita figure.  
Unanimously Approved by COA at 
April 12, 2022 meeting 
===PAGE 2===
5. FY23 COA Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty reported that the patio project has been pushed out to 
FY24. Ms. Doherty has applied for a $50,000 grant from AARP to fund the project.  
 
6. Director’s Report:  
 Ms. Doherty informed the board that retired driver Jim McGuigan has been filling in 
once a week while she tries to hire a replacement. Meanwhile, the Thursday/Friday 
driver has given his notice, and will stay on through the month of March. Monday 
van service has been suspended until another driver is hired. Ms. Doherty also 
looked into turning transportation over to MART, but riders would not be given the 
same level of service.  
 Ms. Doherty informed the board that the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors donated 
$1,000 to the Council on Aging Gift Fund. 
 Covid-19 Report: No report 
 Building and Grounds report: see above 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced upcoming events for March at the Eagle 
House 
  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: The Supporters’ next meeting is March 11. Ms. Kennedy informed 
the board that there is a fundraiser for the Supporters at Hannaford where people get the opportunity 
to donate their change on their way out of the store. Ms. Kennedy also said her board is hoping the 
police department holds the car show this summer so the Supporters can hold a bake sale at the event. 
The Supporters board is hoping to take on two new members, Marilyn Talley and Barbara Kolk.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  There has been no response from property owners about the rocks 
lining Memorial Drive.  
 
BOARD COMMENT:  none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:56 a.m. Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn, Ms. Brown seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, April 12, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 