===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
July 19, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:31 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Director Susan Doherty, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Jim McGuigan 
 
Absent:  Cheryl Moisan, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
GUESTS:  COA Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Pat Kennedy, Select Board Liaison Heather Sroka 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln motioned to accept the minutes from the June 14, 2022 meeting, Ms. 
DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New COA Board Member Orientation Package: Ms. Brown proposed removing the list of 
former COA members, along with the tri-fold about the Eagle House, as well as the contact 
list, and suggested handing those documents out separately from the packet. The rest of the 
board agreed. Ms. Brown is continuing to work on COA and Eagle House history.  
 
2. Vision for FY23: Ms. Lincoln expressed her thoughts on how the Council on Aging is 
perceived, and drew attention to remarks made by a member of the Select Board, the Town 
Manager, and that tax relief for seniors was not a high enough priority for the town in FY22. 
Ms. Lincoln’s proposed goal for the COA is to be more vocal and representative of the 
town’s senior population, and to show the distinction between events and activities that 
take place at the senior center, and the function of the COA. Ms. Doherty informed the 
board that any time she’s made a request of the Town Manager, she has worked with her, 
and the request has been granted. Ms. Lincoln added that being a COA member is more 
than coming to meetings at the Eagle House once per month, and suggested researching 
other COAs in surrounding towns to see what roles they fill in their communities. Ms. Sroka 
commented that one way the COA could make itself more visible is to sit on other 
committees in town, or attend meetings of the Finance Committee, School Committee and 
Select Board, etc.  Ms. Lincoln urged board members to think about how they could make 
the actions of the COA more visible, and seem more important in the eyes of the town, so 
they can discuss those ideas at the next meeting.  
 
3. Boston Post Cane: Ms. Doherty informed the committee that the next name on the list was 
actually that of someone born in 2021, not 1921. Ms. Doherty asked the Town Clerk to 
verify the names and dates of birth on the town list and get back to her with the name of 
the oldest resident of Lunenburg.  
 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
August 9, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 
4. Memorial Drive Boulders: Ms. Doherty reported that four of the eleven boulders that line 
Memorial Drive have been removed. The remaining seven boulders are not on town 
property.  
 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT:  
 FY23 Formula Grant/Salary Admin Plan (SAP) Revised Pay Schedule: Ms. Doherty reported that 
when the new Salary Admin Plan was approved at Annual Town Meeting, the wages in that plan 
were too high, $3 more per hour, for what Ms. Doherty budgeted for Formula Grant funds. Ms. 
Doherty spoke with the Town Accountant and Town Manager, and all agreed to cover the salary 
of the Assistant Meal Site Manager under municipal funds until the FY23 Formula Grant funds 
are decided. As of now the senior center is slated to receive $12 per elder; however, it is 
unknown whether population numbers will be based on the latest 2020 census data. Ms. 
Doherty also informed the board that she will be seeking to increase hours for the 
Administrative Assistant and Outreach Coordinator positions.  
 
 Capital Plan: Projects include: additional parking, generator, painting –interior and exterior, AC 
condensers, and the new patio. Ms. Doherty is working with the new DPW Director on details on 
those projects. 
 
 Building and Grounds: Ms. Doherty reported a senior property tax work-off person has been 
hired to take care of the weeding on the grounds.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Wang Theater tour, Company Bees, Zumba and Chair Yoga to start in 
September 
 
SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Kennedy is resigning as liaison, and Marilyn Talley will take over. The 
Supporters’ next fundraiser will involve collecting clothing donations for the Epilepsy Foundation. 
According to Ms. Kennedy the biggest issue the Supporters are facing is finding someone to replace their 
treasurer. The Supporters will have their financial meeting on September 16, 2022.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT at 10:58 a.m. Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, August 9, 2022, 9:30 a.m.  
 
 