===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
November 8, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:32 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Debbie Lincoln, Vice chairperson Jane Rabbitt, Betty 
DiGiacomo, Pete Lincoln, Barbara Brown, Jim McGuigan, Judy Tarbell, Susan O’Sullivan, Diane Nowd 
 
Absent:  Cheryl Moisan 
 
GUESTS:  Select Board member Lou Franco, COA Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marilyn Talley 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln announced that there is a vacancy on the Council on Aging. Mr. Lincoln 
added that if board members have someone in mind to fill the vacancy, they should first bring them to a 
COA meeting.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes from the October 11, 2022 
meeting. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
NEW BUSINESS:  
1. Town of Lunenburg Building Facilities Manager Paul Visconti/Capital Plan: Mr. Visconti was 
scheduled to appear before the COA, but he did not attend the meeting. Ms. Doherty 
informed the board that the parking lot project would go out for bid in January with hopes 
of breaking ground in Spring of 2023. The parking lot in the front of the building is getting 
paved, and there is work to be done on the roof.  
 
2. Holiday Party: The board agreed to celebrate the holiday season at the next meeting. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Vision for FY23/Senior Center Logo/LBA: The board will continue to look at new logos 
2. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation Package: Board members found several 
errors in the first draft of the packet. Ms. Lincoln reminded board members that this project 
was intended to include input from each and every member of the COA to make thing easier 
for incoming members. Board members also discussed the policies and procedures 
document, and decided to sign the latest copy of the document, and agreed to wait until the 
MCOA and EOEA finalize their discussions on COA board member guidance.  
It was discovered that not all board members were looking at the same version of the 
packet. Ms. Lincoln asked board members to take a look at the packet, and come back to 
the next meeting with constructive feedback.  
3. Boston Post Cane: Ceremony scheduled for Monday, December 12, 2022 at 3:00 p.m. at the 
Eagle House. Recipient to be interviewed at home.  
4. Volunteer/Legislature Breakfast: All COA members attended the breakfast. Board members 
agreed to think on how to attract more interest in the event.  Mr. Lincoln added that PACC 
camera people have trouble interviewing at events, and asked if they could use an office in 
the future.  
5. Tea Party Report: Ms. Lincoln reported that the this year’s tea party has raised the most 
money to date.  
Unanimously approved by COA at 
December 13, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
DIRECTOR’S REPORT: Ms. Doherty thanked the Eagle House Supporters for paying to put new felt on the 
pool table. Ms. Doherty also reported that the Montachusett Regional Planning Committee has reached 
out to her to participate in making the town of Lunenburg “Age-Friendly.” Ms. Doherty explained that 
since the town has already been designated as “Dementia Friendly,” there are only a few more boxes to 
check in order to become “Age-Friendly’” and asked if any board members are interested in joining the 
committee.  
 COA Finance Update: Ms. Doherty reported that Formula Grant funds exceeded her 
expectations.  
Ms. Doherty informed the board that she will be seeking more hours at Annual Town 
Meeting for the Administrative Assistant position as well as Outreach Coordinator, as 
well as creating a new part time Outreach position in order to stay open later at the 
Eagle House.   
Ms. Doherty explained she intends to move all the hours for the Assistant Meal Site 
Manager over to the municipal budget, and keep kitchen aide positions funded under 
the Formula Grant.  
 
SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Talley reported that the Epilepsy fundraiser will start in December. The 
Supporters will be reimbursed for donations by the pound, and will be taking donations through April at 
the TC Passios building. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Lincoln received a letter of resignation from Jacquelyn Dwyer 
who was filling in for the remainder of Sarah Grant’s term.  
 
BOARD COMMENT:  none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 11:36 a.m. Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn. Ms. Nowd seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, December 13, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 