===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
December 13, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:33 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Susan Doherty, Chairperson Debbie Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Jane Rabbitt, Pete Lincoln, 
Jim McGuigan, Susan O’Sullivan 
Absent:  Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Judy Tarbell 
 
GUESTS:  Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Select Board member Lou Franco 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  none 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes from the November 8, 2022 
meeting, Ms. O’Sullivan seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
NEW BUSINESS:  
1. COA Board Member Resignation: Barbara Brown submitted a resignation letter to Ms. 
Doherty. There are now two vacancies on the board. Ms. Lincoln did receive a Talent Bank 
form from Town Hall, but the interested party withdrew her application.  
 
2. COA Gift Fund Request: Ms. Doherty informed the board that there’s just under $10,000 in 
the fund, and requested to use $5,000 toward the ADA Patio project.  
Ms. O’Sullivan motioned to approve the use of funds in the COA Gift Fund for the ADA Patio 
project. Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
3. COA Board Member Town Email: Ms. Doherty distributed instructions for Town Email, and 
urged board members to log into their new MS Outlook email accounts.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Vision for FY23 /Senior Center Logo/Lunenburg Business Association: Ms. Doherty showed 
more new logo examples. Board members decided on a logo that says Lunenburg Adult 
Activity Center.  
2. New COA Board Member Orientation Package: Board members discussed the “Alphabet 
Soup of Aging” document in the packet, and decided to make additions and omissions. Ms. 
Lincoln suggested tabling the discussion to next month’s meeting when there are more 
members present.   
 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
 Building and Grounds Report:  
o ADA Patio: Ms. Doherty updated the board on the patio. There is $100,000 from the 
state, $100,000 from the FY23 Capital Plan, and Ms. Doherty has requested $80,000 in 
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds. Board members discussed potential cost 
cutting measures such as, pouring concrete rather than pavers, and consulting with 
Proctor’s Excavating as they’ve done several jobs in town. Board members also 
discussed hiring Monty Tech students to install the pavilion.  
 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
January 10, 2023 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Capital Plan: 
o Parking Lot: Ms. Lemieux informed the board that the Capital Planning Committee is 
unsure on the return on investment for the $150,000 parking lot request for FY24. A 
suggested alternative is extending the current Kids Kingdom parking lot further down 
Memorial Drive for additional parking.  Ms. Lincoln suggested the possibility of moving 
Kids Kingdom closer to the Primary School, or even to Marshal Park.  
 
o Roof: Ms. Lemieux reported that the roof repairs will not be made this year, and that 
there was some miscommunication with the Facilities Manager, who has since resigned.  
 
 FY24 COA Budget: Ms. Doherty informed the board that she will be seeking an increase in hours 
for the Outreach Coordinator, and Administrative/Transportation Coordinator positions in order 
to increase operating hours at the senior center to draw in working seniors. Ms. Doherty will 
also be seeking a part time outreach assistant for ten hours per week.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported, in Ms. Talley’s absence, that the Supporters 
have collected 66 bags of textiles so far for their fundraiser. Donations are taken on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. through April 2023.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lincoln commented that in the fifteen years he’s served on the COA, the board 
has always recruited its members. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:57 a.m., Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn, Mr. McGuigan seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, January 10, 2023 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 