===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
minutes
7-18-23
Some board members are still facing challenges sending and
. Lincoin asked board members to keep brain storming on
king for suggestions regarding the FY25 Capital Plan
herty gave an update on the patio project.
y has scheduled a Discovery Center event for September 13,
m. So far, the Boys and Girls Club, Alzheimer's Association,
es to advertise their volunteer opportunities.
has interviewed two people for the new part time outreach
nterview scheduled for a potential Assistant Meal Site
not attend the interview.
Lincoln reported she met with Town Counsel Adam Costa,
wer over any 501c3, and can only stop using the organization
Ty explained the group has decided to stay together and she
ther explained that she is working on scheduling some
inflict resolution in order to improve relationships among the
coln received a message from a Lunenburg resident that her
will be turning 100 at the end of the month. Ms. Lincoln
ions for the town's centenarians, and the board agreed. Ms.
's both the LAAC schedule as well as the family. Mr. Lincoln
own's centenarians. Mr. McGuigan seconded. On vote,
hamited ou 2,50 formational ps cards.
motioned to adjourn. Mr. McGuigan seconded. On vote,
. August 8, 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Minutes approve at 8/8/2023 COA meeting
Meeting Minutes
July 18, 2023
CALL TO ORDER: 9:36 a.m.
Present: Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Vice Chair Jane Rabbitt, Diane Nowd, Pete
Lincoln, Betty DiGiacomo, Susan O'Sullivan, Jim McGuigan, George Martin, Helen Balcom
Absent: Judy Tarbell, Cathy Beale
GUESTS:
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln welcomed Ms. Balcom to the board.
PUBLIC COMMENT: none
M.Usco seA de: On ote nine er egrove the minutes from the une 1,2023 meting.
NEW BUSINESS:
1. Cardiac Unit leaving Leominster Hospital: Ms. Lincoln informed board members that the
cardiac unit is moving away from the UMass Memorial healthcare system, and those offices
will now be located in Sterling and Worcester. This is an issue concerning many senio
ities rhose was dom steris the closest hospital formany. Transportatio wil also be
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. MART Connects: Ms. Doherty talked about the grant funded program administered via MART.
People of all ages in Lunenburg, Sterling, and Lancaster will be eligible for livery services in the
area at a low cost. Ms. Doherty, Finance Director Karen Brochu, and Keary Connors of MART
have devised a plan so seniors will be able to pay cash for their rides at the Lunenburg Adult
Activity Center.
2. Master Plan Survey: Ms. Lincoln reported she attended the Master Plan meeting, and learned
that Lunenburg is the third fastest growing town in Massachusetts. Ms. Lincoln informed the
board the meeting has been recorded and posted on YouTube.
3.
Senior Tax Relief: Ms. Doherty reported she received a letter from Town Manager Heather
Lemieux that she was notified that a hearing for the Home Rule Petition regarding Senior Tax
Relief has been scheduled for July 25, 2023. Written testimony may be submitted, and will be
accepted by the Joint Committee from July 25, 2023 until July 28, 2023 at 5:00 p.m. The bill
number is H.3911.
4. Council on Aging Board Member Orientation Packet: another final version will be distributed at
the August meeting.
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 2 1 2023
LONER OWN
CLERK OFFICE
