===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Judy Tarbell, Cathy Beale, Jim McGuigan, Susan O'Sullivan
Absent: Betty DiGiacomo, Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, George Martin
GUESTS: Eagle House Supporters President Pat Kennedy, Select Board Member Lou Franco, Lunenburg
resident Helen Balcom
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln informed the board that Ms. Balcom submitted a Talent Bank Form
expressing interest in the open seat on the COA.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
MINUTES APPROVAL: Mr. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes from the April 11, 2023 meeting.
Mr. McGuigan seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS:
1. Lunenburg Master Plan: Ms. Lincoln read a letter from Land Use Director Adam Burney
requesting representation from the COA on the Master Plan Steering Committee. Ms. Lincoln
volunteered to serve on that committee.
2. Nomination of Council on Aging Board Officers FY24: Ms. Beale nominated Ms. Lincoln to serve
as chairperson, and Ms. Rabbit to serve as Vice-Chairperson. Ms. O'Sullivan seconded. On vote,
motion carried. The board will vote on officers at their Annual Meeting June 13, 2023.
3. Council on Aging July Meeting Date Change: The July meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 18,
2023 at 9:30 a.m. at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Communication with Lunenburg Residents: Ms. Doherty reported the informational post
cards with new name and new hours will go out at the end of June.
2. Lunenburg Senior Tax Relief: Mr. Franco explained that the approval of senior tax relief at
Annual Town Meeting has given the power to the Select Board to petition the
Massachusetts General Court (a.k.a. State Legislature). The legislature will pass the petition
through various committees and consult with the Select Board. The process takes between
18 and 24 months.
3. New COA Board Member Orientation Packet: The board finalized changes to the last draft
of the packet. A new title page, and edits to two other pages will be handed out at the next
meeting, and the packet will be complete. Ms. O'Sullivan motioned to approve the COA
===PAGE 2===
DIRECTOR'S REPORT:
• Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty reported that the Facilities Manager is working on finding vendors for
the back-up generator for the activity center. Monty Tech students will begin working on the
kitchen in the new school year. The town received two bids on the patio project. The project
was awarded to Diversified Construction out of Amherst, Mass. The patio should be finished by
September 2023, with a ribbon cutting ceremony in October.
• Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty reminded board members of the MCOA board member training
scheduled for May 18, 2023 at the Fitchburg Senior Center. Ms. Doherty also talked about
prospective programs for evening hours beginning in July.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Kennedy reported that the clothing drive for the Epilepsy
Foundation brought in $2,557.20 for the Eagle House Supporters. The next fundraiser is selling a raffle
calendar for the month of June. Proceeds will be split between the Supporters and the Lunenburg Skate
Park.
ADJOURNMENT At 10:39 a.m. Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn. Ms. O'Sullivan seconded. On vote,
motion carried.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Annual Meeting, June 13, 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
