===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
April 11, 2023 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:34 a.m. 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Vice-Chairperson Jane Rabbitt, Susan 
O’Sullivan, Jim McGuigan, George Martin, Cathy Beale, Judy Tarbell, Deb Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, Betty 
DiGiacomo 
Absent:  Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd 
 
GUESTS:  Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Facilities Manager Chris Ruth, Select Board Member Lou 
Franco, COA Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marilyn Talley 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln informed board members that terms are up for Ms. Nowd, Ms. Moisan, 
and Mr. Martin, as he filled Jacquelyn Dwyer’s seat. Ms. Nowd, and Mr. Martin will seek reappointment. 
Ms. Moisan cannot commit to another term. Everyone on the board expressed their appreciation for 
Ms. Moisan’s years of service.  
Ms. Lincoln introduced new Facilities Manager Chris Ruth. 
Mr. Franco informed the board that the article for senior tax relief has been finalized in time for this 
spring’s Annual Town Meeting Warrant. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes from the March 22, 2023 meeting. 
Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
NEW BUSINESS: none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Discussion: Communication with Lunenburg Residents: Ms. Doherty has drafted an 
informational post card with the new Lunenburg Adult Activity Center logo to send out to 
residents.   
 
2. Discussion: Warrant Article for May Town Meeting/Senior Tax Relief: Ms. Lincoln wants 
the board to be informed about the Senior Tax Relief article so they can help people 
understand. Mr. Franco explained that if passed at Town Meeting, the concept of senior tax 
relief will be requested on the state level as a Home Rule petition. Ms. Lemieux added that 
Home Rule petitions can take between 18 months and 2 years to be decided.  
To be eligible for tax relief, property owners will need to be at least 65 years old, and live in 
town for 15 consecutive years before they apply. The applicant must not have any excessive 
assets, and must have applied for and receive the circuit breaker tax credit. The town will 
match the amount of the circuit breaker tax credit, which should be no more than $1,200. If 
the property owner is 70 years old, they must have already applied for the pre-existing 
exemption (Clause 41C). The application for senior tax relief must be filled out annually. Mr. 
Franco went on to explain that the relief will max out at $300,000 (1 percent of the levy). 
The funds will generate from all property taxes of those who are not eligible for senior tax 
relief, which has been estimated to cost approximately $50-$60 per household per year.  
 
3. COA Board Member Orientation Packet: The board made several changes to the latest 
document, and asked for a new draft to be printed reflecting those changes.  
Approved by COA at May 16, 2023 
meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
4. COA Board Member Email: All but one have established their new town email accounts. 
 
5. Lunenburg 300th Celebration: Ms. Lincoln informed the board that the 300th celebration 
committee will be meeting soon to brainstorm ideas. Ms. Lemieux added that there is an 
article on the town warrant to spend $5,000 on the celebration.  
 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT:  
 Capital Plan: Mr. Ruth reported that a bid package for the patio project will soon be 
published. Responses are due May 1. The project will be awarded to the lowest 
responsible bidder. Phase 1 of the project will take most of the summer.  
 
Mr. Ruth will be in contact with engineers to draw up new plans for additional parking. 
A new parking lot will be requested for a future capital plan.  
 
A bid package for the generator requested in the FY23 Capital Plan is about to go out for 
bid. 
 
 Building and Grounds: The kitchen rehab requested in the FY20 Capital Plan should get 
started in September of 2023 by Monty Tech students. Mr. Ruth is looking into plumbing 
adjustments to address a hot water issue.  
 
 Upcoming Events:  Ms. Doherty listed upcoming events 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Talley reported that the Supporters have collected 792 bags 
for their clothing drive fundraiser. The Supporters are recruiting volunteers to help load the truck on 
April 28, 2023. The next fundraiser is the June raffle calendar, which will be shared with the Lunenburg 
Skate Park. The calendars will go on sale May 1. The goal has been set to sell 300 calendars, which would 
bring in $3,000 if achieved.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Lincoln reminded the board that there will be one vacancy on the board come 
July 1.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
ADJOURNMENT Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn, Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, May 9, 2023, 9:30 a.m.  
 
 