===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lincoln thanked Lunenburg Select Board member, Lou Franco, and other volunteer town officials for all their efforts
with developing a Senior Tax Relief Plan for the Town of Lunenburg.
Ms. Lincoln welcomed and introduced George Martin to the board as a prospective member to the Council on Aging Board.
MINUTES APPROVAL Mr. Lincoln questioned a comment in the February minutes regarding the Eagle House Supporters
new board member. Ms. Talley responded that the new member is Nicole Waters and she will be the Assistant Treasurer.
Ms. DiGiacomo moved to accept the February 14, 2023, as presented. Mr. Lincoln seconded. All approved, motion carried
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Opinion from Town Council Regarding Offering Legal Advice: Ms. Lincoln stated that she had requested an
official document from Town Council inquiring why the Council on Aging cannot conduct a workshop to help
Lunenburg elders with filling out Tax Abatement forms. Attorney Adam Costa replied with a memorandum which
cautioned and recommended that the Council not assist taxpayers with any appellate process or offer guidance in
advance thereof, citing possible liability not only to the Council but to the Town as well. (See attached).
Discussion ensued among the board regarding Town Counsel advice and the board determined that only as private
citizens, they can help people fill out abatement forms and that they would not use Council on Aging resources or
act as representatives of the Council on Aging in any way.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1.
Discussion: Communication with Lunenburg Residents: Ms. Lincoln spoke about how to better communicate
with Lunenburg residents regarding Lunenburg Activity Center programs and services.
Ms. Doherty mentioned that there was a post card mailing done during the pandemic to Lunenburg households
with a person living there age sixty and older. Board members were shown a copy of that post card and agreed
that an updated version should be created and mailed to residents 50+.
2.
Discussion: Warrant Article for May Town Meeting/Senior Tax Relief: Mr. Franco reported that drafting the
Senior Tax Relief proposal has been a difficult process and still needs finishing touches applied before it can
become a warrant article for Annual Town Meeting. He stated that regarding eligibility for the program it has been
decided that a person must be a property owner and living in the home for at least 15 years. The credit will be
mirroring the Massachusetts Circuit Breaker Tax Program model of up to $1200.00 and will still need to pass at
Annual Town Meeting and also at the State level before it becomes official.
3.
Council on Aging Board Member Search: Prospective Council on Aging Board Member, introduced himself and
stated that he currently serves on the Lunenburg Capital Plan Committee and is a former member of the Lunenburg
Finance Committee.
A letter will be sent to the Select Board recommending the appointment of George Martin to the Council on Aging
Board.
4. Council on Aging Board Member Orientation Package: Ms. Lincoln requested that the board bring their
orientation packages to the April meeting for updates.
5. Council on Aging Board Members Town Email: Ms. Lincoln encouraged board members to continue working
with their Town emails and if assistance is needed, they should contact her.
6. Lunenburg 300th Celebration: Mr. Lincoln stated that although the 300th celebration will not happen until the year
2028, the board should begin thinking of how to involve the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center and suggested that
special monthly programs should be organized at the center to coincide with the celebration.
===PAGE 2===
• Building & Grounds Report
The center closed on March 14'h and 15th due to power outages and snow removal.
• The steam table which is no longer used was put out to auction on Municibid and sold for $525.
There is a new Facilities Manager for Lunenburg, Chris Ruth.
• Capital Plan has $90,000 reserved for a generator at the center. The Director will contact the
facilities manager to see what the status is on purchase and installation.
No updates on the recreation area bid packages. Ms. Doherty will contact the engineer to see what
the status is.
• Upcoming Events: The Discovery Center for Civic Engagement will be hosting a "Volunteer Job Fair' on
September 13, 2023, from 4-7PM at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center. Various Non-Profits will be invited to
attend to share with attendees' information on volunteer opportunities in their organizations.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT
Ms. Tally presented to the board the latest fundraising idea that they are working on in conjunction with the Lunenburg
Skate Park group. A calendar will be developed and sold containing prizes to be drawn on each day in the month of June
2023. If this campaign goes well, there is a potential for both the Supporters and Skate Park group to receive $3,000 each
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS None
BOARD COMMENT
Mr. Lincoln welcomed Ms. Beale and Mr. Martin to the Council on Aging Board and commented on the importance of being
a COA board member.
Mr. Lincoln stated that he would like to have all board members be present at the May meeting for a group photo.
Members were reminded that when a COA meeting is cancelled the policy is to reschedule it to the following week
ADJOURNMENT
Being no further business, Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Lincoln seconded.
All approved, motion carried.
Meeting adjourned at 10:55AM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
April 11, 2023, 9:30am
Respectfully Submitted
Susan Doherty, Director, Lunenburg Council on Aging
===PAGE 3===
Phone 978.463.7700
Fax 978.463.7747
www.mtclawyers.com
Millis Office
730 Main Street, Suite IF
Millis, MA 02054
Phone/Fax 508.376.8400
New Bedford Office
227 Union Street, Suite 606
New Bedford, MA 02740
FROM:
CC:
SUBJECT:
DATE:
ADAM J. COSTA, ES(
MEAD, TALERMAN &
COSTA, LLC
HEATHER LEMIEUX, TOWN MANAGER
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
OPINION ABOUT OFFERING LEGAL ADVICE
FEBRUARY 28, 2023
Reference is made to the above-captioned matter. In that connection, you have
inquired about the advisability of the Council on Aging conducting a workshop,
seminat or other informational meeting or gathering with respect to the process of
and procedure for appealing tax abatement requests recently submitted to the Board
of Assessors, if denied.
I would caution against and recommend that the Council not assist taxpayers with
any appellate process, or offer guidance in advance thereof. Proceedings before the
state's Appellate Tax Board (ATB) are quasi-judicial in nature; an explanation thereof
or assistance with preparing, submitting and/or presenting one's case to the ATB
will inevitably require the Council to give, or else could be interpreted as the Couricil
providing, legal advice.
The unauthorized practice of law in Massachusetts is
prohibited. See G.L c. 221, $ 41. Further, if advice or recommendation(s) by the
Council are relied upon to a taxpayer's derriment, liability could arise thetefrom, not
only for the Council but, consequently, for the Town generally.
Please let me know if you have further questions about the foregoing.
