===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Judy Tarbell, Cathy Beale, Jim McGuigan, Susan O'Sullivan, Helen Balcom, Cheryl Moisan, George Martin,
Diane Nowa, Betty DiGiacomo
Absent:
GUESTS: Eagle House Supporters President Pat Kennedy, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marilyn Talley,
Select Board Member Lou Franco
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
MINUTES APPROVAL: Mr. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes from the May 16, 2023 meeting.
Mr. McGuigan seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS:
1. MART Connects: Ms. Doherty informed the board of a transportation program offered by MART
to residents of Lunenburg, Sterling, and Lancaster. The program makes livery services available
in the area to residents of all ages, seven days a week. Ms. Doherty is working with MART and
the town's Finance Director to offer seniors an option to pay fare with cash. The program is
funded by a year-long grant.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Vote to Approve FY24 COA Officers: Mr. Lincoln motioned to accept the nominations of
Deb Lincoln as chairperson, and Jane Rabbitt as Vice-Chairperson. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded
the motion. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
2. Lunenburg Master Plan: Ms. Doherty is scheduled to meet with consultants regarding the
town's master plan.
3. Lunenburg Senior Tax Relief: Mr. Franco reported that the legislation for Senior Tax Relief
has been filed, and a hearing will be scheduled between now and February 2024.
4. COA Board Member Orientation Packet: Mr. Lincoln suggested further editing the COA
Policies and Procedures, and also found some grammatical and typographical errors in the
packet.
5. COA Town Email: Some members are having trouble sending messages from their account.
6. Lunenburg 300th Celebration: Board members discussed ways to display artwork so parents
and grandparents could come to the Eagle House to see.
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
• Capital Plan/Building and Grounds: Facilities Manager Chris Ruth explained that the old
•
septic system was not on the plans for the new patio being built behind the Eagle
House. As a result, construction was delayed because sand dug out from the area could
not be labeled as "clean material" and then removed. The Facilities Manager found a
===PAGE 2===
and Barbara Kolk has stepped in for that position. Ms. Talley announced that she is resigning from the
board. Ms. Kennedy added that Nicole Waters, who was learning about the financial side of the
Supporters, in order to take the reins from current treasurer Jim Hays, will resign the end of July. COA
board members discussed with Ms. Kennedy how the board will function with the recent resignations.
Ms. Doherty and Ms. Lincoln suggested the COA distance itself from the Eagle House Supporters, and
drew attention to the lack of civility at some Supporters meetings. Ms. Lincoln added that the
Supporters board has been dysfunctional for several years. Ms. Kennedy asked for some time to address
Ms. Doherty's and Ms. Lincoln's concerns. The next Supporters meeting is scheduled for September.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Rabbitt expressed concern over the status of the Eagle House Supporters. Ms.
Lincoln said she'd investigate any options the COA might have regarding the Supporters.
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT At 11:04 a.m. Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn. Ms. O'Sullivan seconded. On vote,
motion carried.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Tuesday, July 18, 2023
