===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Guests None
Announcements None
Public Comment:
Board Comment Mr. Lincoln expressed his disappointment with the decision from Town Hall that a member of
the COA would not be able to participate in the Director job interviews. Ms. O'Sullivan also echoed his
concerns.
Ms. Lockwood commented that she was very pleased that Lunenburg Public Access Cable will be there
recording the COA meetings from this day forward.
Minutes Approval It was moved and seconded to accept the minutes of the August 13, 2024, COA meeting.
All approved motion, carried
NEW BUSINESS
Boston Post Cane Celebration: Ms. Doherty informed the board that the new Boston Post Cane
recipient is Olga Ditommaso and after several conversations with Ms. DiTommaso's daughter it was decided
not to have an interview filmed at the home but continue with the presentation at the Lunenburg Adult Activity
Center (LAAC) on Monday September 16, 2024, at 1PM.
Special Town Meeting Article Establishment of Lunenburg Council on Aging Meal Site Revolving Fund:
Ms. Doherty stated that she has been collaborating with the Town Accountant and the Interim Town Manager
on preparing an article for November 12, 2024, Special Town Meeting (STM) to develop a revolving fund of
$16,000 for the purpose of purchasing food for the LAAC meal site. All board members were encouraged to
attend the STM to cast their votes.
Council on Aging Director Interviews: Ms. Lincoln stated that Ms. Doherty and herself met with the Assistant
Town Manager, Julie Belliveau and Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini where they discussed the revised
COA Director job description. At this meeting it was discussed that the COA will not be involved in the
interview process for the position and that the COA Chairperson will be allowed to sit in on the interviews but
will not be able to comment.
After due diligent discussion among the COA board members, it was moved and seconded to request to the
Interim Town Manager that a representative from the COA board be present and active at the COA Director job
interviews. All approved, motion carried.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Update FY26 Budget Requests: Ms. Doherty commented saying that the forecast did not look very good for
increases in budget line requests. If the requests for FY26 budgets are released before her retirement on
December 31, 2024, she will include in the FY25 COA budget a request for the increase of hours for the Meal
Site Manager from 19.5 to 26 hours per week. If the FY26 budget is not released before she leaves, she will
inform the new Director of the plan to include that request.
Ana Lockwood commented that her belief was that the Town is not in a bad financial situation. She stated that
the Town does have a very large amount of money in free cash. She believes that the town should start
===PAGE 2===
put together by professionals and the board should use it to compare information with the COA Board Member
booklet.
Volunteer Recognition/Cookout Friday September 20th 11:30AM: Discussion among the board members
was held about the event which included gift basket coordination, and COA board members arriving at 9:30AM
to help with set up. Police and Fire Departments will be manning the grill, and all food has been pre-ordered.
The singing State Trooper will arrive at 9:30AM and Ms. Doherty has mapped out the seating areas for the
guests. To date there are 110 people signed up for the event and any other names coming in have been
placed on a wait list.
ARPA Submissions: Ms. Doherty reported that the $2000 request for ARPA funds for sail shades was
withdrawn due to lack of information on the cost and vendor. Ms. Doherty and the Facilities Manager, Chris
Ruth, had a phone conference with New England Sail Shade company and the "ballpark" figure which was
given was $50,000-$60,000 for that project. It was suggested that this has the potential to become a future
capital plan project.
Regarding the Kiosk, and Rocking Chairs request, Ms. Doherty is waiting for a new PO from the Town
Accountant that will reflect the shipping costs which were not included in the ARPA request, before placing the
order.
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Capital Plan:
• Generator - The fuel tank for the generator is expected to be installed on September 15"
• Roof Repair - The bids for the roof replacement on the newer section of the building were received but
the lowest bid came in slightly above the cost of what was designated in the capital plan for funding.
The Facilities Manager and Interim Town Manager are working to find funds within the town to bridge
the gap.
• Parking Lot - The old parking lot plan that was developed back in the late 2000's was deemed
unusable to assist with the design of a new parking lot. The Facilities Manager will be contacting the
Civil Design Group, Dillis & Roy, for assistance with new plans. Ms. Lockwood mentioned that there is
a $50,000 line item in the Capital Plan for the COA parking lot and that the Facilities Manager should be
contacted about this.
• Flooring - Ms. Doherty made a request to the Facilities Manager to replace the carpeting and flooring
throughout the LAAC with a more durable material such as vinyl planking. He will research this further
and report back later. Ms. Lockwood commented and requested that an LLAC building budget request
be submitted to the Facilities Manager.
• Kitchen - Ms. Doherty reported that the Facilities Manager will be starting conversations with Monty
Tech again to discuss the remodel of the main kitchen.
• Sail Shades - Discussed under ARPA submissions
Building & Grounds Report:
Bocce Court - This project was finished on September 14" by a group of fourteen volunteers and is ready to be
used.
===PAGE 3===
Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced all upcoming events at the LAAC for the month of September
through the first week of October.
Eagle House Supporters Report: Ms. Doherty relayed that the next meeting for the Eagle House Supporters
will be on Friday September 13* at 10AM at LAAC. She will be submitting her requests for funding for the next
year in the amount of $15,000.
Notices & Communications: None
Board Comment: Ms. Christopher mentioned that she had reached out to Senator Cronin's office and to Ken
Jones at the Lunenburg Fire Dept. with her concerns about where the Lunenburg ambulance will transport
people now that Nashoba Hospital has closed. She was told that 911 patients will be transported to
Leominster Hospital and if requested and they can accommodate, they will go to Clinton Hospital.
All life-threatening cases will be transported to UMass Memorial in Worcester.
Mr. Lincoln thanked PAC television for agreeing to film the COA meetings and said that it is important to get the
COA information out to the public.
Adjournment: A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the regularly scheduled meeting to enter
executive session not to return to open session after executive session, pursuant to MGL c. Section 21(a),
paragraph 2 to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel.
All approved, motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 10:35AM
Respectfully submitted by Susan Doherty
