===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Meeting Minutes
November 12, 2024
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:30 am.
PRESENT. Debbie Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Director), Jane Rabbitt (Vice Chair), Peter Lincoln, Jim
McGuigan, Judy Tarbell, Elena Christopher, Cathy Beale, Diane Nowd, Susan O'Sullivan, & Ana Lockwood
EXCUSED Helen Balcom
GUESTS Lunenburg Select Board Chair Caesar Nuzzolo
ANNOUNCEMENTS Ms. Lincoln announced that her husband, Peter, is having medical issues. She said that it
may impact her ability to interview prospective directors.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Nuzzolo received an email from a concerned citizen regarding the Mart Warrant Article.
She expressed her interest in having the mileage limit extended to include Umass. Ms. Doherty reached out to
Scott Rich who handles the Mart Connect Program. Mr. Rich will investigate if the mileage area can be extended
and get back to Ms. Doherty.
BOARD COMMENT Ms. Christopher was questioning where the ambulance would take you if you called 911.
She contacted the Fire Department who told her that Leominster Hospital would be the first choice. If a patient did
not want to go there, then they could be transported to Clinton Hospital. However, Clinton is unable to care for
cardiac patients. According to Chief Sullivan, those patients could be transferred to either Emerson Hospital or
The COA Holiday party will be held at the next meeting on December 10".
MINUTES APPROVAL A motion was made and seconded to approve the October 8, 2024 minutes. All approved,
motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
1. MART CONNECT Article Special Town Meeting: Ms. Doherty asked Scott Rich from Mart Connects to
come to the Special Town Meeting this evening to answer public questions concerning the article. Mr. Rich
agreed to attend.
2. Special Town Meeting Article, Establishment of Lunenburg Council on Aging Meal Site Revolving
Fund: This article will be presented at Special Town Meeting this evening.
3. Process for Director Replacement: There are no interviews scheduled as of yet.
4. Eagle House Supporters Inc.: New recruits are meeting with existing members of the Eagle House
Supporters. They will decide at their next meeting whether or not they will be able to take over.
5. COA Sunshine Fund: The Board discussed having a COA Sunshine Fund. The purpose would be to spread
well wishes to those in need. A motion was made and seconded to approve the development of the COA
Sunshine Fund. All approved, motion carried.
Ms. Nowd volunteered to head up the Fund.
6. Tea Party Recap: This year's Tea Party was highly Successful. $2,983.00 was raised to benefit the Eagle
House. Ms. Lincoln complimented Ms. Balcom for all her efforts & contributions. Many thanks to all who
contributed.
7. Special Town Meeting Tuesday November 12, 2024 @ 7PM: Ms. Lincoln encouraged everyone to attend
the Special Town Meeting to support the two articles being discussed.
Mr. Nuzzolo reviewed the Salary Administration Plan updates.
===PAGE 2===
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Update FY26 COA Budget Requests: Ms. Doherty gave an update on the FY24 statistics and commented
that she'd like to make an appointment with the Selectboard to present these numbers before she retires.
2. MCOA Resource Guide for Council on Aging Board Members: Ms. O'Sullivan commented on how well
done the Resource Guide was. It was recommended that all new members of the Council receive a copy.
3. Parking Lot Update: Ms. Doherty said that Mr. Ruth presented the request for the parking lot plans to
Capital Plan. However, there has been no update.
4. ARPA Submissions: The kiosk and the rocking chairs have been received.
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Capital Plan:
• Generator - Has been installed & waiting for the company to start it up. A stockade fence will be installed
around it.
• Roof Repair - The installation of the new roof will begin next week.
• Flooring - The request for flooring will be submitted to Capital Plan in FY26.
• Kitchen - Ms. Doherty consulted with Mr. Ruth who didn't think the Kitchen would be completed this year.
• Bocce Court - The Mario Patacchiola sign was installed. However, it will need to be replaced due to a
spelling error.
• Outdoor Electrical - The electricity for outside is expected to be completed in the Spring of 2025.
• Window Washing-Ms. Doherty stated that the windows have been completed and look great.
UPCOMING EVENTS. Ms. Doherty reviewed the upcoming events for the remainder of November & December.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT - Previously discussed.
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS - None
BOARD COMMENT. - None
ADJOURNMENT A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting. All approved, motion carried.
The meeting adjourned at 10:40 am.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE - Next meeting: Tuesday, December 10, 2024 @ 9:30 AM.
Respectfully submitted by,
Michele Beauvais
