===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Agin g
Meeting Minutes
December 9 , 2025
CALL TO ORDER : Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order  at 9:3 9 am .
Present : Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair ), Diane Nowd, Jim 
McGuigan , Cathy Beale, Lou Franco, Jack Rabbitt , Elena Christopher , Ana Lockwood , 
Susan O ’Sullivan ,
Excused : Helen Balcom
Guests:  Deb Goodsell (COA Director) , Jennifer Warren-Dyment (Town Manager), 
Barbara Co u lo mbe  (Eagle House Supporter s ), Glenn McLeod (Select Board)
ANNOUNCEMENTS : Ms. Lincoln  reported that Anna Farrell from the Gateway C ity 
O rchestra share d info about the Rocking the Holidays concert at FSU  on 12/13/25.
PUBLIC COMMENT : none
BOARD COMMENT : Ms. Lincoln  thanked Mr. Rabbit for pr oviding  the packet on 
E lements of an E ffective T own B oard.
MINUTES APPROVAL : Passed over to allow more time to read minutes.  Ms. Lincoln  
offer ed  to also send minutes for future meetings.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Legislative Contingent - January : Ms. Lincoln reported that Representative 
Scarsdale, Representative Kus h merek  and Senator Cronin will be at the next 
meeting. Ms. Lincoln  would like questions for them to be brought to them ahead 
of time. She will collate and disseminate. 
2. Outreach vs . Assistant Director Position : Town Manager reported on the 
position and options for hiring for  either an Outreach Position or a n  Assistant 
Director which would absorb elements of the Outreach Position. She is asking for
the Board to provide feedback on what direction  they would like her to pursue. 
Ms. Goodsell reported that she has been working with Mr. Rabbitt on a flow chart 
of staffing and the needs of the department . Ms. Goodsell reported that she 
would be in support of an Assistant Director. Ms. Lockwood asked if this can be 
done before Town Meeting , and how would it  be fund ed . Town Manager  reported 
that she can post and fill this position , provided it is approved at the next Town 
Meeting. As to funding, that will be worked on if this is  the direction the Board 
would like to pursue. Ms. Lockwood reported that she has concerns that this may 
not be in the best interest of the seniors as it may take away from the availability 
of the Outreach Coordinator by transferring those responsibilities to operational 
tasks.   Ms. Nowd  noted that she believes we need to hire an Outreach 
Coordinator and have them here on a daily basis to meet the needs of the 
seniors. Ms. Christopher is concerned about having a long lapse of time without 
someone in the Outreach Position and her first concern is to get someone hired, 
and then at a later date to discuss the possibility of an Assistant Director . Fu rther 
discussion was that while there isn ’t information now , a desire was noted to 
===PAGE 2===
pursue seeking more information . Ms.  Beale motioned  to ask the T own to do 
the research for a job description and the funding necessary for an Assistant 
Director position.  S econded by  Mr. Franco . Vote was 9 in favor and one 
abstention.  Ms. Lockwood  ma d e a motion to urge that the Town move forward 
with finding a replacement for the Outreach Coordinator  position. Seconded 
by Ms. O ’Sullivan. Vote was unanimous in favor. 
3. Special Town Meeting – Article 12:  Mr. Franco reported that this Article was  to 
send a mailing that the warrant for Town Meeting  is available and give notice of 
where to pick up warrants in specific locations or online. Mr. Franco noted he had
concerns regard ing  the language of the article and how future boards may 
address this and the implications of that  for seniors.  Mr. Franco made a motion 
to work as a representative of the COA to consult with Town Manager  and 
S elect Board  regarding a way to find a resolution for this article. Seconded  by 
Ms. O ’Sullivan . Vote was u nanimous in favor.
CURRENT  BUSINESS
1. Financial Reports:  Ms. Goodsell  noted that most of budget is payroll  which is on 
target. For programs , supplies and other line items they are also on target for 
spending.  She reported that an offer has been extended and accepted for  a Meal
Site Manager. This person has been in the food industry for  10 years, most 
recently at another COA. The start date for this position is unknown at this time.
2. Caregiver Resource Connection : Final session  was held a few weeks ago. A 
comment was received  that the program was informative but not as advertised. 
The team will meet again after the holidays  to plan for future sessions.
3. Master Plan Update : Ms. Lincoln  received feedback from Ms. Duffy that she felt 
that other boards have noted that there is already tax relief and that most seniors 
prefer to stay in their home,  so she was seeking additional feedbac k . She 
welcomes a COA member to attend their upcoming meeting.
4. Update on local hospital services : N o new updates noted.  Looking forward to 
January ’s meeting with the Representatives. 
5. Lobby Furnishing : No changes from last meeting. Will be tabled until  the new 
year. 
6. 41A Update : Mr. Rabbitt reported this passed at the Special Town Meeting.
7. Festival of Trees – Thank you and Results:  Ms. Lincoln read a thank you letter 
from the  Pres id ent  of the Eagle House Supporters to the COA Board for their 
support of this fundraiser. 
8. COA Board Facebook Page : Is up and running. More content to come.
9. Feed back on By-laws : Tabled un til next month.
DIRECTORS REPORT
1. Up coming Pr ograms  and Ev ents : Ms. Goodsell reported on the connections 
made in the community through the Festival on Trees. She was thankful for all 
the community participation. Christmas Party is tomorrow night with 70 people 
attending. Director will be working with Fire Chief and staff on new program m ing  
on Fire Safety . There is a Historical Presentation on 12/12. Ms. Goods ell gave an
update on recent classes and detailed the upcoming events for the remainder  of  
===PAGE 3===
Dec em ber  into January , including adding an additional session of Chair Yoga 
with Rebecca .
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT : Festival of Trees . Ms. Coulombe thanked 
everyone who participated in making this a success and that  it raised almost $4k. The 
next fund raiser coming up will be a gift card frenzy .
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS : none
BOARD COMMENT : COA Board thanked Pauline Roy for her years as the Outreach 
Coordinator. Mr. Rabbitt  noted he got the newsletter by email , and if other s  want to 
subscribe they should. Questions for Rep Scarsdale should be submitted in two days to 
Mr. Rabbitt .
ADJOURNMENT : A motion to adjourn at 11:17  am  was made by Ms. Lockwood  and 
seconded  by  Mr. Franco . It passed unanimously.