===PAGE 1===
Minutes approved at the 9/9/25 COA Meeting 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                         
Meeting Minutes 
August 12, 2025 
 
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:33 am 
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Diane Nowd, Jim McGuigan, 
Cathy Beale, Lou Franco, Jack Rabbitt, Elena Christopher 
Excused: Helen Balcom, Susan O’Sullivan, Ana Lockwood 
Guests: Deb Goodsell (COA Director) 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Tea Party tickets are going on sale on August 19th for $30 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
BOARD COMMENT: none 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: postponed to next meeting.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
1. Century Club: Celebration for Fran Therrien will be on Sept 2nd at 10am. She is a long-
time member of the United Parish, Lunenburg Women’s Club, and the Girl Scouts. 
2. Women’s Club: Ms. Lincoln reported she has received calls with concern from Women’s 
Club members that the Friday closure would affect their meeting time. Those meetings 
will not be affected as Ms. Goodsell has offered to stay later those days.  
3. Unitil Concerns: Mr. Rabbitt noted that the attachment pieces for solar has had an 
increase in pricing. Ms. Lincoln will work on drafting a letter for Unitil. She is asking the 
board to forward any concerns they might have to her for enclosure in that letter.  
4. Assessment of Friday early closure: Ms. Lincoln noted she would like to address this in 
the September meeting, that way if any changes are to be made, they can be adjusted for 
enclosure in the November newsletter. Ms. Goodsell noted that as it gets darker earlier in 
the fall, it might make sense to close on Monday nights and reopen Friday afternoons.  
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Financial Reports: None this month 
2. Caregiver Connection Report: Ms. Beale reported that dates are being finalized for three 
Lunch and Learn sessions. The first will be on September 17th at lunchtime and will focus 
on effective caregiver roles and strategies for being an effective advocate and interacting 
with the healthcare system. Session two will focus on understanding advanced directives. 
That one will be in October and will be at dinnertime. Session three will focus on 
understanding and successfully interacting with the Health Care system. That session will 
be in November and will be at lunchtime. 
3. Updates on local hospital services: Legislation was signed by Governor Healy to 
allocate 5 million dollars emergency funding to North Central Fire Departments to 
stabilize the emergency response system and personnel.  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes approved at the 9/9/25 COA Meeting 
 
 
4. Report on Lula Lift/Elevator: Ms. Lincoln met with Chris Ruth, Facilities Director. He 
stated the following challenges: Lift will take up valuable space on the main floor. It would 
most likely trigger the rebuilding of both staircases due to egress code. It may also trigger 
electrical upgrades. Mr. Ruth recommended other options such as screening in the front 
porch. 
5. Bucky’s Corner: Ms. Beale and Ms. Rabbitt are looking at vendors. They will update 
further next month. 
6. Update on Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting: Master Plan Committee has provided the 
goals that fall under the purview of the Council on Aging. They would like a response by 
October 1st. Ms. Lincoln is looking for feedback from the Council to present to the Master 
Plan Committee. 
7. Sand for Seniors Program: This is being organized by Olivia at the Fire Department. DPW 
will be providing sand for town residents this coming winter. This program will be 
advertised at a later date. 
8. Building Permits for Seniors: no update at this time. 
9. Kiosk: Has been completed.  Ms. Lincoln thanked Mr. Lincoln, Ms. Roy, and DG Graphics 
for their efforts. 
10. Kitchen Staffing Update: Ms. Goodsell reported that interviews will be starting 
tomorrow.  
 
DIRECTORS REPORT 
1. Upcoming Programs and Events: Ms. Goodsell noted she would like to offer AARP tax 
services here at the LAAC, but volunteers are needed. Ms. Goodsell gave an update on 
recent classes and how they were received. Ms. Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events 
for the remainder of August, September and into October. September is a busy month 
with many activities coming up.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: none 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: Mr. Rabbitt reported that there are two people applying for 
the means tested exemption now. The deadline to apply for this program is September 3rd. He will 
put together a warrant article for the 41A deferral as it needs to be approved by the Town. Mr. 
Rabbitt noted he has been in contact with Terry from Clinton regarding the upcoming Dull Men’s 
Club. Questions were raised regarding flags honoring Veterans. This is believed to be coordinated 
by the select board. Ms. Lincoln will follow up with Mr. Nuzzolo for an update.  
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Rabbitt thanked the staff of the LAAC for keeping meals going these last 
18 weeks without a Meal Site Manager. 
 
ADJOURNEMENT A motion to adjourn was made by Ms Beale and seconded by Mr. McGuigan. It 
passed unanimously.  
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes approved at the 9/9/25 COA Meeting 
 
 
 
 