===PAGE 1===
  Minutes approved at the April 8, 2025 COA Meeting
 
  
 
LUNENBURG COUNCIL ON AGING 
Meeting Minutes 
March 11, 2025 
 
CALL TO ORDER  Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:36 am. 
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice chairperson)  Peter Lincoln, Diane Nowd,  
Elena Christopher, Susan O’Sullivan, Jim McGuigan, Helen Balcom, Cathy Beale, Ana Lockwood, Judy 
Tarbell. 
Announcements: none 
Guests: Chris Ruth 
Public Comment: None 
Board Comment: Peter Lincoln expressed his outrage that sand for seniors was eliminated this winter. 
He proposed that we make sure that sand is distributed next winter. 
Minutes Approval: Further discussion on emailing as opposed to mailing the meeting minutes. The 
intent is to email the minutes.  However,  March 11   Minutes will also be mailed until we are sure that 
everyone is able to download minutes on their computers at home. It was moved and seconded to 
accept the minutes of February 11, 2025 meeting. All approved. Motion was carried.  
New Business:   
1.  Chris Ruth Facilities update:  The fence around the generator has been installed and will be 
stained when the weather is warmer. 
The commercial kitchen should be done by the end of the week. 
The floor replacement will occur after July1, 2025. 
The  upper blinds in the large activity room have been installed. The electric controls need to be 
installed to finish the project.  
The lights are installed in the Pavilion and  extension lighting to the shed will be installed this 
Spring. 
2. As previously mentioned, the sand for seniors program will be planned well before next winter.  
3. Boston Post Cane award: The current candidate eligible for the Boston Post Cane Award  
declined the cane.  The next eligible candidate on the list is WWII Veteran Charles  Sanderson. 
He is eligible for the Cane award as well as entry into “The Century Club”. He will be honored at 
the Veteran’s Breakfast on April 11, 2025. 
Current Business: 
1. COA FY26 COA Budget was presented to the Town Manager and Finance Committee. 
2. Financial Reports (Quarterly-March, June, Sept. and December). The  Director of the Lunenburg 
Adult Activity Center (COA) will present Quarterly financial reports to the Town Manager and 
Finance Committee. 
3. Nashoba Valley Medical Center Hospital Work Group:  The group has been disbanded by the 
Governor of MA. No explanation as to why at this time. 
4. Update on Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting. The New Master Plan committee met last week. 
There are now people involved and it is starting up again. 
5. The 300th Anniversary Committee will meet March 28th at 6  pm at the Lunenburg Public Library.  
All are encouraged to attend. 
6. Parking Lot update: None at this time. 
Director’s Report: 
1. There are two more seats available on the bus to Foxwoods on Monday March 17, 2025 
2. Tuesdays Lunch and Learn- with Integrity Medicare Advisors March 18, 2025. 
3. “Libby” Presentation by the staff at the Lunenburg Public Library. 
4. The Program on the history of Lunenburg Schools has been postponed.  
===PAGE 2===
  Minutes approved at the April 8, 2025 COA Meeting
 
  
 
Eagle House Supporters Report: Nothing new to report. 
Notes and Communications: None 
Board Comment: 
  A COA Board member expressed that the Fire Department is staffed with full time employees, six days 
a week and it is staffed  on Sundays by on call firefighters.  She indicated the need for increasing the full 
time employees to seven days per week for the safety of our community. She also indicated that the 
Ambulance service brings revenue into the town. She urged all those in favor of this change to let the 
town manager know your feelings about this. 
Adjournment:  A motion was made  by Peter Lincoln and seconded by Susan O’Sullivan. It passed 
unanimously.  Meeting was adjoined at 10:19 AM. 
 
 
 
 
 