===PAGE 1===
Minutes approved at July 8, 2025 COA Meeting 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                         
Meeting Minutes 
June 10, 2025 
 
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:38am 
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Peter Lincoln, Diane Nowd, 
Elena Christopher, Susan O’Sullivan, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Ana Lockwood, Judy 
Tarbell 
Excused: Helen Balcom 
Guests: Jennifer Warren-Dyment (Town Manager), Barbara Coulombe (Eagle House 
Supporters Vice President), Deb Goodsell (COA Director), Jack Rabbitt, Lou Franco, John 
Silmi 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln announced that the Historical Society will be doing a 
presentation at the LAAC on 6/13 at 1pm, and the Planning board will hold two meetings on 
the MBTA Communities, both at the LAAC. Ms. Lincoln then introduced the Town Manager 
and thanked her for coming. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lockwood reported that she has been doing research on helping 
seniors with their building permits. The board indicated that they would like her to continue 
to pursue this topic and will add it to the next agenda. 
 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: Small adjustment needed to the spelling of one name. Mr. Lincoln 
moved to accept the minutes with the noted amendment. It was seconded by 
Mr.McGuigan. All approved, motion was carried.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
1. Election of Officers for FY ‘26: Mr. Lincoln moved that Ms. Lincoln and Ms. 
Rabbitt be appointed as Chair and Vice Chair for the COA Board for ‘25-’26. Ms. 
O’Sullivan seconded. All approved, motion was carried.  
2. Thank You’s: Ms. Lincoln noted that there are many people to thank for the work 
they are doing for the COA. Ms. Roy for the minutes, Ms. O’Sullivan for the plants for 
the pavilion, and the Health Care Advisory team for their work. Thanks to Central 
Mass Gardens, Dicks Market and Lakeview Nurseries for the donation of the plants. 
Ms. Lincoln also thanked Ms. Tarbell and Mr. Lincoln for their decades of service to 
the town and the COA. There are three applicants, John Cilmi, Lou Franco, Jack 
Rabbitt, for the open positions on the board and they introduced themselves. They 
will be meeting with the Select Board on June 17th. 
3. FY 27 Budget: Ms. Goodsell reported that her priorities for the FY 27 Budget are to 
advocate for a change in the job description of the Outreach Coordinator and have 
that position become Assistant Director/Outreach Coordinator, as well as to add a 
Program Coordinator. Town Manager spoke about the budgetary needs of the whole 
town and the need to start planning for FY ’27. They are creating a Tri-board 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes approved at July 8, 2025 COA Meeting 
 
committee with the Select Board, Finance Committee, and the School Committee. 
The boards will be tasked with looking for areas of efficiency and reducing 
duplication. Ms. Goodsell reported that she met yesterday with the Library and 
Parks, and they will be continuing to meet regularly to communicate on programing. 
There was discussion on the nomenclature of COA Board and COA Department and 
how those can be confusing. Ms. Lincoln will follow up with Town Manager on that 
at a later date.                    
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Financial Reports: Ms. Goodsell reported that most funds have been expended 
from the FY ’25 Budget and submitted those reports to the Board. 
2. Senior Advisory Team for Task Force for Healthcare: Ms. O’Sullivan reported that 
the team met and are recommending three Lunch and Learns, and to hopefully 
bring in speakers for those. 1. Caregiver Support and Advocacy, 2. Understanding 
Health Care Directives, and 3. Interacting with the Health Care System.  
3. Updates on local hospital services: There are no new updates at this time. UMass 
is still seeking permissions. 
4. Recap of Programs moved from the building: Two programs were moved to the 
library due to scheduling conflicts. A new life after loss group will begin in July here 
at the LAAC, and the Nashoba Grief Support will also be coming back if the hours 
are adjusted later in the meeting.  
5. Space Issues: The LAAC only has 2-3 rooms for programs. The Director will work to 
make sure programs are scheduled to not conflict. Ms. Goodsell reported that she 
would like to replace the couches in Bucky’s Corner with 3-4 tables with 4 chairs 
each thus accommodating more people and meeting a wide variety of needs. Mr. 
Lincoln noted that this space is special for the older seniors who are looking for a 
comfortable space. Ms. Lockwood noted that the chair appears to be of an 
institutional style, and we would lose the hominess of the space. Ms. Lincoln noted 
that the LAAC is a home away from home for many of our seniors and it is important 
to preserve that feel. Ms. Goodsell responded that she has been tasked with finding 
additional space and believes this is her only option for additional space. Town 
Manager noted that we may need to look at other options that might meet the 
sanitary needs of the space without losing the comfort and hominess of the space.  
6. Access to 2nd level update: Town Manager reported there is a process to look at 
adding a lift which starts by submitting it to the capital plan. The initial cost appears 
to be cost prohibitive, but several members noted price tags of under 100k. Mr. 
Lincoln made a motion to proceed with a study. Seconded by Ms. Lockwood. All 
approved, motion was carried. 
7. Update on Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting: none noted.  
8. Sand for Seniors Program: Ms. Goodsell reported that a meeting was held this 
morning and the DPW will have sand available for town residents this coming 
winter. The Sand for Seniors program will have some changes, and more 
information will be coming in the fall. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes approved at July 8, 2025 COA Meeting 
 
 
DIRECTORS REPORT 
Upcoming Programs and Events: Ms. Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events for the 
remainder of June and into the Summer.  She thanked the Board and all others who 
showed kindness with the passing of her father. Director reported that she is meeting with 
Library, Parks and Teen Center to see about areas of collaboration. MART rides will also 
continue at no cost for the time being. Ms. Goodsell will be bringing in Philip Arcidiacono 
will be offering one on one time for questions regarding elder law.  
Adjustment of Center Hours: Ms. Goodsell is looking at adjusting the hours of operation 
here at the Center. She would like to return to being open on Monday and Wednesday 
evenings as well as additional hours on other days. To balance the staffing the center 
would close at noon on Fridays. The Board agreed to trial this for a few months and see 
how it goes.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Current fundraiser running with Hannaford Helps 
selling bags and the Supporters will get a portion. One member has resigned but a new 
individual has expressed interest and will be voted on at the next meeting. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS none 
 
BOARD COMMENT Ms. Lincoln asked about the kiosk, and Ms. Goodsell reported that we 
were waiting on scheduling changes before printing those. Ms. Christopher noted 
concerns that she has with Philip Arcidiacono which were seconded by Ms. Lockwood. Ms. 
Rabbitt offered to assist with picking out furniture for Bucky’s Corner. Mr. Lincoln thanked 
the directors and board members he has worked with on his time with the Lunenburg COA. 
 
ADJOURNEMENT A motion was made and seconded. It passed unanimously. Meeting 
adjourned at 11:17am. 
 
 
 
 