===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Meeting Minutes
February 11, 2025
Minutes approved at the 3/11/25 Council on Aging Meeting
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:41am
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Peter Lincoln, Diane Nowd, Elena Christopher, Susan
O'Sullivan, Jim McGuigan
Excused: Helen Balcom, Cathy Beale, Jane Rabbitt, Ana Lockwood, Judy Tarbell
Guests: Michael Ray Jeffries (Lunenburg Select Board Vice Chair), Barbara Coulombe
(Eagle House Supporters Vice President)
ANNOUNCEMENTS none
PUBLIC COMMENT none
BOARD COMMENT Ms. Lincoln shared an email from another board member who
requested not to be named. The email stated that low-cost stamps may be counterfeit. Mr
Lincoln commented that he buys coils of stamps off ebay that he has been told are valid.
MINUTES APPROVAL Discussion on emailing minutes as opposed to mailing them was
tabled until a full board is present. It was moved and seconded to accept the minutes of
the January 13, 2025, meeting. All approved, motion was carried.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Michael-Ray Jeffries: Mr. Jeffries presented the work of the Municipal Building
Design Committee. He shared the history of the committee and their charge, and
the work they have done to create a consolidated Town Hall at 10 School St. That
building will be connected to the Ritter and will contain Town Offices and School
Services and Offices. The plan is to renovate the existing Town Hall into a Meeting
House.
2. Tax Advantages for Seniors: Ms. Lincoln encouraged everyone to watch the
Presentation from Feb 3, 2025, which is now available on the Lunenburg Public
Access YouTube Channel.
3. Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting: The committee has not met since April as the last
meeting didn't have a quorum. Next meeting is still TBD.
4. 300th Anniversary Committee: Ms. Lincoln encouraged all seniors to think about
ways to be involved in this celebration.
5. Boston Post Cane Award: Ms. Goodsell reported that the next recipient will be
Mary Bentley. She is working with the family to plan a celebration for April.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Nashoba Valley Medical Center: Ms. Lincoln reported that UMASS has agreed to
be a provider for NVMC, but the location is still unknown.
2. COA FY26 Budget: Ms. Goodsell reported that her budget for FY26 is level funded
from FY25 apart from contractual salary increases. The COA budget is also taking
on the Mart Connects program, and the town is transferring 20k to COA budget to
===PAGE 2===
cover that line item. Ms. Goodsell also reported that she is requesting to merge the
Assistant Meal Site Manager and Meal Site Manager, which are currently part-time
positions into one 36hr/week position which would allow for expanded meal
services. Discussion ensued regarding the Kitchen Aide positions and a request to
move them from Formula Grant Funding to the Town budget.
3. Financial Reports: Ms. Goodsell will be providing these to the board on a quarterly
basis with the first report coming in March.
4. Mart Connect/Worcester: Representative Scarsdale and Senator Cronin have
agreed to sign on to the letter written by the COA Board. The letter is currently
awaiting their signatures.
5. Parking Lot Update: Next steps are an architectural plan which is on the Capital
Plan for FY26.
DIRECTORS REPORT
Capital Plan: A plan is in the works to disguise the fencing around the generator.
Flooring: Current rugs in the building will be replaced by laminate flooring.
Kitchen Project: Work is progressing with a completion date anticipated to be within the
next month.
Building and Grounds: Window shades are anticipated in the near future.
UPCOMING EVENTS Ms. Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events for the remainder of
February and for March.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT Ms. Coulombe reported that they have two
additional members joining them. Their next meeting is scheduled for 3/5/25.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS none
BOARD COMMENT none
ADJOURNEMENT A motion was made and seconded. It passed unanimously. Meeting
adjourned at 10:56 am.
