===PAGE 1===
Minutes approved at  October 14, 2025  Meeting
Lunenburg Council on Agin g
Meeting Minutes
September 9 , 2025
CALL TO ORDER  Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9: 37 am
Present : Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Diane Nowd, Jim McGuigan , Cathy Beale, Lou 
Franco, Elena Christopher , Ana Lockwood
Excused:  Helen Balcom , Susan O ’Sullivan , Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair ), Jack Rabbitt ,
Guests:  Deb Goodsell (COA Director)  Barbara Co u lo mbe (Eagle House Supporters)
ANNOUNCEMENTS : non e
PUBLIC COMMENT : none
BOARD COMMENT : Ms. Lockwood reported that last week the School Committee 
shared that there was close to 600k  in unspent funds from  their FY25 Budget. She 
encouraged anyone to reach out to their public officials to express their thoughts on this.
MINUTES APPROVAL : July minutes motioned for approval by Ms. Lockwood , 
seconded by Mr. McGuigan . M otion passed unanimously. August minutes motioned for 
approval by Ms. Lockwood,  seconded by  Mr. McGuigan . Motion passed unanimously.
Motion to support Mr. Rabbitt  representing the COA to  work with the town towards the 
41A tax exemption by Ms. Lockwood , seconded by Ms. Beale . Approved unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Tea Party : all tickets are sold .
2. Volunteer Recognition : Ms. Goodsell reported that this will be held in the Spring 
to align with N ational V olunteer A ppreciation week.
3. Hometown Heros Program : Ms. Lincoln  noted that Jennifer Sanderson from the 
Historical Commission  is the lead for this project.
4. Historical Commission – Boston Post Cane:  Ms. Lincoln read a letter from the 
Historical Commission . They stated they have obtained a replica cane and would 
like to be part of future  Boston Post Cane celebrations.
O LD BUSINESS
1. Financial Reports:  Ms. Goodsell presented the current financial status.  
Discussion  on utilizing funds allocated for the Meal Site Manager to increase the 
nutritional services offered to seniors . Ms. Goodsell reported that she went before
the Tri-Board and presented the initial FY27 budget .
2. Caregiver Connection Report : First Lunch and Learn will be next week . There 
are a few signups currently,  but many more spots are available,  and Ms. Beale 
encouraged everyone to share this program to make sure all are aware of this 
presentation. 
3. New Hours – November:  Hours will change  in November to be open Monday 8-5 .
Wednesday will remain open late.  This change will stay in effect for the fall/winter
months. 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes approved at  October 14, 2025  Meeting
4. Updates on local hospital services : Ms. Lockwood reported that the s tate has 
allocated 5 million to the communities affected by the closure of Nashoba 
Hospital. Much is still unkno wn as to how that will dis bursed .
5. Bucky ’s Corner : Ms. Beale and Ms. Rabbitt came in to clean the furniture and in 
doing that moved the current furniture to the entrance area  and set up tables and 
chairs in Bucky ’s Corner. Ms. Beale indicated that this is a temporary change to 
see how it  works and is utilized. The pricing  they have received for  new furniture  
has been exorbitant. Ms. Lincoln shared the history of Bucky ’s Corner . She 
indicated that Mary Padula would be turning 100 this year on November 21 st . She
would like to consider having a Mary Padula day to honor  her achievements  and 
all she has done for th is  community.
6. Update on Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting : Ms. Lincoln reported they are 
meeting tomorrow night and would appreciate input. Ms. Lincoln reported there is
not a lot in the plan that pertains to se niors. Ms. Lincoln would like an assisted 
Living Facility  to be on the need to have  list , not the want to have  list. The Board 
indicated they support that change. Ms. Lockwood noted that she listened to a 
recent Planning Board meeting where it was discussed that one way the town 
can facilitate that that change would be through zoning .
7. Building Permits for Seniors:  Ms. Lockwood presented an outline of how this 
program could work. She spoke to the benefits this could provide outside of 
financial  savings, such as education and protection.
8. Kitchen Staffing Update : No update at this time.
DIRECTORS REPORT
1. Up coming Pr ograms  and Ev ents : Ms. Goodsell shared  that the Sand for Seniors
Program has been updated for this upcoming winter season , and the forms for 
that were presented to the board. Ms. Goodsell noted she  has been looking at a 
grant through Mass DOT to offer additional transportation services. She reported 
on the past trip to the Harwich Winery and the upcomin g trip s : Christmas Festival
at Mo heg an Sun and Absolute Queen  on the North Shore . Ms. Goodsell gave an 
update on recent classes and how they were received  and detailed the upcoming
events for the remainder of  September , Octo ber and into Novem ber .
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT : Ms. Coul o mbe  noted their information is 
available on Facebook  and flyers are posted . There are a number of trips and raffles  
both now and upcoming .
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS : none
BOARD COMMENT : none
ADJOURNEMENT  A motion to adjourn was made by Ms. Lockwood and seconded  by  
Mr. Franco . It passed unanimously.