
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                        
Meeting Minutes
October 14, 2025

CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order.
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Diane Nowd, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Lou Franco, Elena Christopher, Ana Lockwood, Susan O’Sullivan, Jack Rabbitt,
Excused: Helen Balcom
Guests: Deb Goodsell (COA Director) Ena Keo-Thompson (Eagle House Supporters), Ceasar Nuzzolo (Select Board Chair), Glenn McLeod (Select Board Member).

ANNOUNCEMENTS: A moment of silence was held for the passing of two century Club Members: Kay Previte and Mario Patacchiola.

Ms. Lincoln presented the town bylaw as it pertains to the Council on Aging. This was received in an email from Town Manager, but it was too late to add as an agenda item. Discussion around the roles of the Director and the Council on Aging Board were had. Ms. Lincoln asked the board to come to the next meeting with their thoughts on the bylaw. 

PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Keo-Thompson thanked the volunteers who participated in the Tea Party for all their work and their generous donation. She also shared the upcoming fundraising events for the supporters such as a toll booth and the festival of trees. 

BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln reported that her cardiologist is leaving Sterling Cardiology and moving back to Leominster Cardiology. Many people had been told that Leominster Cardiology was closed, and it appears that it is not. Mr. Rabbitt reported that he spoke with Representative Scarsdale and she was open to coming to a COA meeting but felt that Senator Cronin should also be extended that same invitation. Ms. Rabbitt reported that the Groton Music Center will be starting their free concert series on Wednesday afternoons again. Ms. Christopher thanked the board for sending flowers to her mother’s funeral. 

MINUTES APPROVAL: September minutes motioned for approval by Ms. Lockwood, seconded by Mr. McGuigan, passed unanimously. Mr. Franco made a motion to ratify the previous vote to authorize Mr. Rabbitt to work with the town towards the 41A tax exemption, seconded by Ms. O’Sullivan. Approved unanimously.

NEW BUSINESS
Tri-Board Report: Ms. Goodsell shared her report as presented to the Tri-Board. Ms. Lockwood responded that she had sent Ms. Goodsell questions after the last meeting that she would like addressed. She wants a high-level overview of staffing needs and a chance to work with the Director to collaborate on that plan. Ms. Lincoln asked board members to bring any feedback to the next meeting. Mr. Franco reported on the census numbers that the percentage of town residents who are age 50+ will be growing and it would be wise for the town to plan to provide for their needs in respect to housing, etcetera.
Tea Party Recap: Tea Party was successful and raised almost $4,000. Ms. Lincoln thanked all the volunteers for their support for this event. 
Thank Yous – Tea Party and Volunteers: Ms. Lincoln provided cards and asked for volunteers to write notes thanking all who participated in the Tea Party. She is also asking for volunteers to write notes thanking all the volunteers who help the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center.
Safe Shower Installation Assistance: Ms. Lincoln reported that she has recently upgraded her tub to a safe shower which was not without cost. She would like to look at programs to assist seniors in making these needed modifications. Ms. Goodsell reported that in the meantime Our Lady of the Lake has a program providing assistive equipment. Mr. Rabbitt encouraged a discussion with the Outreach Coordinator to see if there are programs currently available to assist with needed modifications. 
Representative Kushmerek’s Bill for Caregivers: Ms. Lockwood presented on the bill that Representative Kushmerek has co-sponsored towards providing support and relief for caregivers. 
41A Report: Mr. Rabbitt reported on the 41A Tax Deferral that is awaiting a vote to be added to the warrant for Special Town Meeting. This led to a discussion Mr. Rabbitt had with Representative Scarsdale regarding grants. A motion was made for the board to allow Mr. Rabbitt to work with the COA Director to explore grants by Ms. Lockwood, and seconded by Ms. O’Sullivan. All in favor, passed unanimously.
Padula Day: Ms. Lincoln reported that instead of a celebration she is recommending a citation from the Board of Selectman. She received a write-up from Mr. Ebersole and will forward that to Mr. Nuzzolo.

OLD BUSINESS
Financial Reports: None at this time. 
Caregiver Connection: Ms. Beale reported that the first class went well and was well attending. The next one will be on 10/21 at 4pm and Bill O’Connor will be presenting on Advanced Directives. 
Update on local hospital services: Ms. O’Sullivan reported that the Satellite Emergency Center in Groton MA is on schedule to open at the end of 2026, or the beginning of 2027.
Furnishings for lobby areas: Ms. Goodsell noted that the Rabbitts donated a tv which is now is the room for movies, and the tv that was in there is now on a rolling cart which gives us flexibility to move it as needed. A representative will be bringing a mobile showroom for the lobby furniture at a date to be determined.
Lunenburg Master Plan Update and Input: Ms. Lincoln reported that she has stepped down from the committee as she can no longer attend the meetings. If anyone else would like to join this committee she would be happy to speak to them after the meeting, 
Sand for Seniors Program: This program is in place for this year, and requests for the sand can be brought to the COA.

DIRECTORS REPORT
Upcoming Programs and Events: Ms. Goodsell noted that we are still looking for volunteers to be trained by AARP to assist with taxes, as we would like to offer that assistance. We are also offering foot care again by a doctor who will come here once a month. Ms. Goodsell gave an update on recent classes and detailed the upcoming events for the remainder of October, November and into December. 

EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Keo-Thompson noted that there are a number of trips, raffles and events both now and upcoming.

NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: Ms. Lincoln shared a letter from Fran Therrien. She thanked the board for the Century Club presentation.

BOARD COMMENT: New sign for hours will be completed by D&amp;G graphics and that will be posted on the kiosk before November. Ms. Lincon asked for a volunteer list and Ms. Goodsell will provide that. Ms. Rabbitt asked that it be noted what the person volunteered for, so that letters can be personalized.  Ms. Lincoln thanked the board for all their work and participation.

ADJOURNEMENT A motion to adjourn was made by Ms. Lockwood and seconded by Mr. Franco. It passed unanimously. 








Minutes approved at November 18, 2025 Meeting












