===PAGE 1===
Minutes approved at the 02/11/25 Council on Aging Meeting 
Lunenburg  Council  on Aging 
Meeting Minutes 
January 14, 2025  
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:37 a.m.  
PRESENT: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice Chair), Peter Lincoln, Judy 
Tarbell, Elena Christopher, Diane Nowd, Susan O’Sullivan,  Ana Loc kwood, Jim McGuigan 
EXCUSED: Helen Balcom, Cathy Beale 
GUESTS: Lunenburg Select Board Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Jack Rabbitt, Lou Franco, Eagle 
House Supporters President Ena Thompson , Vice President Barbara Coulombe 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln read a thank-you card from Susan Doherty. 
Mr. Franco announced that the Governor signed the bill for Senior Tax Relief on 1/06/25  
PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln announced that Channel 8 is now showing this meeting at 
9:30 p.m.  on Tuesdays and 11 p.m. on Saturdays.  These times are not conducive to 
Seniors being able to watch it, so Ms. Lincoln is going to request that they change the times 
to something earlier. 
MINUTES APPROVAL: There were two sets of minutes to approve. 1. Executive Session 
Minutes: a motion was made and seconded to approve the Executive Session Minutes.  All 
approved, motion was carried. 
2. A motion was mad e and seconded to approve the minutes from the Dec. 10, 2024.   
meeting.  All approved, motion carried.  
NEW BUSINESS : Jack Rabbit and Lou Franco gave a brief overview of the presentation 
they will be doing on 2/3/25 regarding property tax. 
CURRENT BUSINESS: Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting: No meeting was held so there is 
no update. A presentation happened at the Library on it, but it was not advertised or posted 
properly so it wasn’t an official meeting.  
300 th Town Anniversary: Ms. Lincoln is looking for things that the LAAC can do.  
Boston Post Cane: A recipient is still being sought. 
Nashoba Valley Medical Center: A letter was read regarding a subgroup that was formed 
to try to find resources to provide healthcare in the Nashoba Valley region. 
===PAGE 2===
FY26 COA Budget: the COA will be getting quarterly updates starting in March.  
COA FY24 Formula Grant: Another installment will be received in April 
Parking Lot Update:  There are some complications regarding adding parking for the 
Center, that have to do with having a new school planned in town.  
MART Connect/Worcester: Cesar Nuzzolo shared that a group is working on asking MART 
to provide rides to Worcester hospitals. A letter to that effect was read.  A motion was 
made and seconded, and was approved unanimously to accept the letter. 
Sunshine Club: Deb will put an item in the newsletter to ask people to forward names of 
people who need a card from the Sunshine Club to the COA. 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT: 
Capital Plan Fencing/Generator: A plan is in the works to disguise the fencing around the 
generator. 
Flooring: The areas with the rug will be replaced by laminate  
Kitchen: All the cabinets and appliances will be stainless steel to meet the current 
standards for a commercial kitchen. 
Buildings and Grounds Report Window shades: they will be coming in the future 
UPCOMING EVENTS:  Ms. Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events for the rest of January 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Nowd gave a brief overview of the cards she sent 
out.   
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: There is a new Supporters Group. Ms. Lincoln 
introduced Ena Thompson as the President and Barbara Coulombe as the Vice President.  
They both attended this meeting to present.  They currently have 7 members but can have 
as many as 10. Martha Sullivan is the Publicist, John Trainor and Nicole Waters are the 
Treasurer and Website Manage r, Debbie Consalvo will handle Correspondence, and Linda 
Vickery is the Secretary.  Linda will be utilizing Venmo for fundraising.  
BOARD COMMENT: Ana watched the most recent meeting of the Building Design 
Committee and said it was exciting to see things coming together. 
ADJOURNMENT: A motion was made and seconded.  It passed unanimously .  Meeting 
adjourned at 10:28 a.m.  
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: Next Meeting Feb. 11, 2025 at 9:30 a.m.  
===PAGE 3===
Respectfully Submitted: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 