===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Meeting Minutes
Date: January 13, 2026
CALL TO ORDER: Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:32 am.
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Diane Nowd, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale,
Lou Franco, Elena Christopher, Susan O'Sullivan, Jack Rabbitt
Excused: Helen Balcom and Ana Lockwood
GUESTS: Pete Lincoln, Debra Goodsell, Director; Barbara Coulombe, Eagle House Supporters; Caesar
Nuzzolo, Selectboard Chair
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Chairperson Lincoln read a thank you note for the recent donation made by the
COA Board to the Lunenburg Food Pantry. An additional note was received from Pauline Roy thanking
the board for their farewell gifts.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Lincoln spoke to the board regarding the importance of relationships. He spoke
of a personal relationship with his own grandmother and proceeded to pay tribute to Elsa Watson, who
worked at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Centerfor many years in the kitchen and the positive effect she
had on all those who knew her. He presented the LAAC with a framed picture of Elsa to be displayed at
Center.
BOARD COMMENT: Jack Rabbit brought to the attention of the board an idea for seniors to assist In the
school with students who may need support in reading. He read an article in the paper stating that the
3° grade was behind in reading. The board discussed and are in favor of exploring ways that the senlors
could benefit the students.
MINUTES APPROVAL: Motion was made and seconded to accept the November minutes as presented,
approved unanimously.
Motion was made and seconded to accept the December minutes as presented, approved unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS:
1. Welcome Senator Cronin & Representative Scarsdale: Due to other obligations Senator Cronin
and Rep. Scarsdale were unable to attend but will be rescheduled. Chairperson Lincoln stated
that the Board has received from its members some good suggestions for discussion for when
the contingency attends the February meeting. She encouraged members to continue to submit
questions and concerns that she can then forward to the contingent for review.
2. Personnel Update: Welcome to Brandie O'Toole, the new Meal Site Manager. There is an open
position for an Outreach Coordinator and a per diem Van Driver.
OLD BUSINESS:
1. Financial Report: None at this time.
2. Caregiver Resource Connection: Two upcoming programs include: Be a Better Listener on Feb.
10 at 11:30 lunch Included and WE CARE 365 on February 25 at 9:00 am breakfast included.
3. Special Town Meeting: Lou Franco will be meeting with Selectboard Chair, Caesar Nuzzolo, to
discuss.
===PAGE 2===
4. Updates on local hospital services: last report has the completion date for the UMass Groton ER
facility as late 2026
5. Lobby Furnishings: Furnishings have been chosen. The hold-up is waiting to make sure funding
is in place.
6. 41A Update: There will be a bulletin board at the Center with information regarding 41A and
other potential tax breaks for seniors.
7. COA Board Facebook page: Chairperson Deb Lincoln asked Board members to submit content
for the page if they come across any information, etc. of interest.
8. Feedback on By-laws: Selectboard Chair, Caesar Nuzzolo informed the board that the current by-
laws are outdated going back to when Council on Aging's were first introduced. The By-law
Committee will be meeting. It may be easier to start from scratch.
DIRECTOR'S REPORT: Director Debra Goodsell presented her report of upcoming programs and events
including Be A Better Listener, Eat Well, Feel Well: A Vegan Wellness Workshop, new additional Balance
Class has been added to the schedule, and an additional Stronger Senlors exercise program on
Wednesdays, February Heart Health Month, NP Lauren Parilla will present and educational program on
taking care of your heart as we age. Valentine's lunch will be held on Thursday, February 12 and will
include Musical "Love Song" Bingo. Mardi Gras will be celebrated on Feb. 17 at 11:30. WE CARE 365 will
be present on Feb. 25. Foot Clinic with Dr. Katie Jacboson will take place on Feb. 26. Reminder: the last
Friday each month is our Memory Café. This month's entertainment will be our own Country Line
Dancers. February's Café will have Bunnies from Good Pickin Farm.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Vice President of the Eagle House Supporters, Barbara Coulombe
presented a list of all the upcoming trips that the group is sponsoring and also noted that there are two
upcoming Fundraisers belng promoted, A Gift Card Frenzy Bingo and a Pickleball tournament.
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:
BOARD COMMENT: Chairperson Deb Lincoln suggested that the COA Board take its own minutes. It was
suggested that Board Members take turns monthly. It was also suggested that the Board look into Al
options. The board will reconvene with more information at the next meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
ADJOURNMENT: A motion was made and seconded and meeting was adjourned at 10:36 am
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: Next Meeting: Tuesday, February 10, 2026, at 9:30 am
