===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
November 2, 2020 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Blatt, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
Members Absent: Matthew Allison 
Architects:  Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux 
Community Guests: Michelle Belleza BGC, Brett DeBraga BGC, Tom Alonzo 
 
Public Comment: Michelle Belleza from the Boys and Girls Club wanted to remind the committee that 
the TCP would be a great opportunity for the Boys and Girls Club. BGC is a valuable resource with 
potentially 200 kids to become great young adults and a service that provides the community. Brett 
DeBraga echoed Michelle’s comments and the need for expansion and consolidation of the Boys and 
Girls Club. Corinne Scouten stated the importance of the food pantry being located at the TCP building. 
A parent, Heather, stressed the importance of the 9th and 10th graders having a separate space in the 
Boys and Girls Club and the importance of the gym usage for children. Tom Alonzo stated he was 
concerned, that it is not this groups responsibility, and here we are that we do not have enough space to 
house everybody. We are going to have another vacant building and TCP was designed for kids. He also 
stated he does not want to leave people out. The Boys and Girls club are hampered by their own 
success. Here is an opportunity for them to expand and we should consider utilizing the Ritter building.    
Dave Passios stated he does not disagree with the previous speakers. Bottom line, the school districts 
needs have mushroomed into a good percentage of the building that was not seen 3-5 years ago. Due to 
the priorities set, this is what we have for a floor plan for approval and for the departments to approve.  
There is such a tangled we to try to relocate another entity to fit the Boys and Girls Club. We have done 
the best we can with the charge we can. Possibly the Selectmen can steer another option but it is 
outside our committee. David Blatt stated the committee knows his opinion of the Boys and Girls Club. 
School needs took over much space, and according to the school they cannot use the other buildings. 
Brian Lehtinen stated he agrees with what Dave Passios said, and that these outside organizations would 
still have access to these public spaces and that these outside organizations can look into using these 

===PAGE 2===
other buildings such as the Ritter. Also that the Selectmen and Town Manager can move organizations 
after the completion and that there is not enough space. We also need the space for all age groups and 
the Boys and Girls club is just one of those groups. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated we as a committee 
reached out to the community organizations and the BGC was a part of the plan and we wanted to 
accommodate them because of what they offer the community. But we were squeezing all other areas 
to accommodate BGC and we need to make sure we meet the foreseeable future needs. The main 
takeaways he has heard is we trust the town manager and school superintendent on the need for co-
location. The superintendent also stated that the Ritter was not a realistic space for their confidential 
space needs and the ACE program needed to be co-located with the director of special education. Also 
the extended day program was needed for parents with younger children. When we looked at storage 
and more meeting room space and tried to prioritize the space, needs for PACC, but we were not 
satisfactory meeting anyone’s needs. We were able to achieve every town department’s needs. He 
stated that he knows the town is committed to children and the BGC and it saddens him that we are not 
able to fit the needs of the BGC and it is unfortunate we were not able to make it happen. Greg Roy 
stated he echoes what the committee members said and he would add that we communicate to the 
Boys and Girls Club that it is sad that we are not able meet the program needs and it is a tough decision 
to prioritize the way we did and it is not in any way intended to give any kind of message to say that the 
Boys and Girls club is not an important or significant part of the community.  
Committee Reorganization: We have a new member, planning board member, Matthew Allison. Tabled 
reorganization. 
Review and Approve Schematic Design: Tom Lam submitted the schematic design to town department 
heads for approval. Then we will enter the next phase of more specifics. This current design was about 
adjacencies and we are not at the end of the process. Tom Lam got sign offs from everyone except the 
town clerk who has been busy with the election. Schools and PACC sent comments on design 
development issues to be addressed later in the next phase. Plumbing fixtures have not been 
determined yet.  Brian Lehtinen stated he had no major concerns but did mention a family bathroom 
that people could access was discussed prior and would be nice to see in the design. David Blatt talked 
about town clerk storage being removed from the conference room, meeting room #3 storage, and the 
basic floor plan looks fine, pending the bathroom review. Dave Passios agrees the basic floor plan looks 
good and the after the bathrooms get adjusted we could use extra space for storage or future office 
space. Mr Passios would like to have a serious conversation later about the commercial kitchen and 
discuss with the board of health. Greg Roy stated there are more cost decisions that will come into play 
in the design development stage and the floor plan looks good. Dave Passios asked if we have fine tuned 
the parking. Ed said we will fine tune the parking and we will still be looking at it.  Dave Blatt asked if we 
can see the comments from departments on their sign off. The reception area for the schools would like 
to be closed. PACC is looking at other studios for internal changes and more design development. David 
Blatt asked about the location of ACE. Tom mentioned storage was used to separate spaces. Brian 
Lehtinen stated he talked to the superintendent and she had no concerns.  Brian Lehtinen also 
mentioned the senior center and library building in Townsend has a commercial kitchen. Greg Roy 
stated he can look into having someone come. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated he has done a commercial 
kitchen in Cambridge and got his certification for managing kitchens and has a better understanding 
now.  He also stated that the town clerk had stated the design was good with her and he was able to see 
her space needs and after hour needs.  Dave Passios inquired about the doors for offices. Tom Lam 
===PAGE 3===
stated it depends on occupancy and the doors on the ends will take care of the needs, so many doors in 
suites will not be needed, but can be considered in the design development. Ed stated 49 people or 
more we need 2 doors. Dave Passios said classrooms having direct access to outside is advantageous to 
those groups. David Blatt made a motion to accept and approve the schematic design and departmental 
adjacencies, meeting rooms, as presented. Seconded by Dave Passios. No discussion. Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, Dave Blatt aye, Dave Passios aye, and Greg Roy aye. Motion passes.  
Tom Lam stated we know can look at the level of renovation that will take place and the engineers can 
start that narrative. Ed stated we will have a better understanding of level 2 or level 3 soon. Parking 
requirements will also be tweaking during the design development stage. Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
commented the label for the town clerk is labeled as town manager in orange in the ledger on the right.  
Town Meeting Presentation Preparation: Next meeting on Monday the 9th we will focus on this. Tonight 
Tom has a draft that we can look at prior to next week’s meeting. Tom reviewed the slides for the 
presentation. Greg Roy stated that someone in the committee will introduce the project and give a 
history lesson on where we have come and then turn it over to Tom to give this presentation. Dave 
Passios stated the scans are important and shows all the work getting to this point. Also that we should 
talk to the town moderator on how to proceed to have architects present. Greg Roy stated the article is 
stated so that it can be presented by architects. The town will have to move that article to hear the 
presentation. The town manager stated the town manager would typically allow that and that she 
would let him know that is the case. Brian Lehtinen stated initially he thought TCP committee should list 
the areas they come from, expand the list to include the Lions Club and the Grange and making a long 
list of community involvement. Also if the tiny prints and tables are on the presentation people will not 
be able to read it. Dave Blatt said we should keep the slides simple. Us as a group can talk more about 
the process and why we made these tough decisions and that we took in a lot of input. Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys stated that it would be beneficial to have a handout of the schematic design. Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys stated he would include a reference to the signoffs by departments. We also have to think 
about the people who will not attend. He also mentioned traffic is a concern with a portion of the town. 
Greg Roy agreed there should be a handout and it needs to be given to the town clerk as people check 
in. This year, due to Covid, we should not have boards of schematics out where people could gather. 
Greg Roy stated he will have an outline that we can discuss as a committee at our next meeting. Dave 
Blatt mentioning hours meeting with departments may be better than a small print table. Brian Lehtinen 
added that adding parking should fall into the traffic flow discussion. Greg Roy stated that due to the 
nature of the update article we are not asking them to fund it and there will be another day for those 
discussions and we can be cautious about getting into the weeds in this forum.  
Community Outreach: Greg stated we would like to get the schematic design on the website. David Blatt 
mentioned the Ledger articles and maybe inviting them. Brian Lehtinen mentioned sharing it to 
Facebook and reaching as many people as we can. Dave Blatt asked if we could get a list of community 
Facebook pages. Brian Lehtinen stated he could share a list with the community.  
New Business: None 
Review and Approve Minutes: None 
===PAGE 4===
Future Meeting Schedule: Next Monday, November 9th at 5:30pm. Town Meeting after that, and we will 
not need to call a meeting as we will not be voting. Past town meeting we will be meeting on Monday, 
November 30th at 5:30pm.  
Public Comment: Dave Passios congratulated the committee for its work and pulling through, listening 
to everyone’s needs, and getting to the product. It has been an enjoyable process and he is looking 
forward to the work ahead. Greg Roy stated it has been a pleasure working with all the committee 
members current and past as well as the architects and is looking forward to the next steps.  
David Blatt made a motion to adjourn at 7:13pm, Dave Passios seconded. Brian Lehtinen aye, Dave 
Passios aye, David Blatt aye, Greg Roy aye.  
Meeting adjourned at 7:13 P.M.  
 
 