===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
November 30, 2020 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Blatt, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen 
Members absent: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew Allison 
Architects:  Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux  
Community Guests: Corrine Scouten, Lions club 
Meeting called to order at 5:31pm. 
Public Comment: Corrine Scouten congratulated the committee and architects on a great presentation, 
handouts, and space for the community pantry. She asked the committee to reach out to her if there are 
any questions. Greg Roy asked if Corinne had any feedback or heard any feedback from her 
membership. Corinne stated she did not have feedback but there was a lot of excitement and 
understand there is a lot of hurdles. David Blatt stated the Boys and Girls Club was disappointed but 
understood. Greg Roy stated he was also disappointed. It was not a pleasant decision and hoped they 
didn’t see it in any way projecting no confidence. Greg Roy stated he was bummed it didn’t work out. 
Greg Roy stated he got a call from the new DPW director in preparation for capital planning asking about 
our project. The new DPW director came in with a plan to protect buildings and fix any small things. 
Greg Roy stated he encouraged the new DPW director to reach out to Dave Passios.  
Update from Design Team: 
Tom Lam stated spring town meeting is the expectation.  The architects plan to capture what 
information is needed from the town or the committee. The architects stated they were able to get the 
information from the DPW about the traffic information and daily occupants at the TCP building so they 
are able to finish the traffic study. The architects discussed the proposed list of deliverables, including 
the construction cost estimate. Tonight is meeting number 10. Civil engineers will have a developed site 
plan. Architecture will include demo plans, exterior elevations, ceiling, flooring, wall types, and design 
narratives.  The architects gave an update on the building code as a level 3 under renovations. 
Additional deliverables include exterior and interior approach, typical finishes, materials, doors, security, 

===PAGE 2===
AV components, toilet configurations, and lighting.  The architects stated the importance of 
communication with the departments during the week of December 7th. The architects recommend 
meeting with the committee the week of December 21st. The architects stated this meeting would be to 
refine and finalize alternates and pricing, secondary prices, assumptions, inflation, furniture, soft costs, 
and if the town plans to re-use anything.  The architects stated another meeting for the week of January 
4th for final project deliverables submitted to the town by end of January 2021, and end of the project. 
This would include hazmat, environmental, traffic; an all in one document/report.  The first Saturday in 
May is the annual town meeting. The warrant would be mid-March. Greg Roy stated that would be 
enough time to prepare and prepare for the town meeting including community outreach.  David Blatt 
stated he would not be available for the first week of January. He also stated we should make sure to 
have a working meeting just us to discuss tradeoffs. Tom Lam stated the architects plan to continue 
talking to department heads and December 14th report back to the committee on design concepts and 
turn vision into reality.  
Meeting schedule was adjusted to Meeting number 3 the week of January 4th and meeting number 4 to 
the week of January 18th.  Cost estimate the week of January 18th with an internal committee meeting 
the week of January 11th.  The week of January 25th a group workshop and meeting after that for the 
final cost estimate. Funding article presented with cost to vote on receiving funding.  Finishing the 
report in January gives February for internal town discussions and get the article in and plug in final 
numbers.   
Future Meeting Schedule:  Greg Roy asked committee members for their availability.  The committee 
will plan to meet on Monday, December 14th and then Thursday, December 17th at 5:30pm and cancel if 
needed.  
Dave Passios asked the architects if the level 3 status could be changed with design changes. The 
architects stated this level was due to the percent of the building that was being renovated. The building 
space being renovated is greater than 50% of the space. The architects will need to look into more 
disciplines that level 3 requires and also comply with level 1 and 2. The architects also stated the new 
roof also triggers structural.    
Review and Approve Minutes: Minutes from September 29, 2020, November 2, 2020, and November 9, 
2020 were approved unanimously.  
Public Comment: none  
Dave Passios made a motion to adjourn, Brian Lehtinen seconded. Brian Lehtinen aye, Dave Passios aye, 
David Blatt aye, Greg Roy aye.  
Meeting adjourned at 6:33 P.M.  
 
 