===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
September 29, 2020 6pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Blatt, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
Members Absent: none  
Architects: Dave Kelley, John Ings, Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux, John Londa, Dr Kate Burnham 
Community Guests: Michelle Belleza, Corinne Scouten, Steve Walker, Lunenburg Ledger 
 
Public Comment: School Superintendent Dr Burnham noted she and her staff met with Tom earlier in 
the day and discussed workflow and several missing spaces, namely, the HR/Finance office and archived 
storage. She added that there is no room for future expansion.  Tom added that there is insufficient 
space for extended day care, roughly 3,000 SF off. Dr. Burnham noted that if there is not enough space 
in the TCP for the School Dept. that maybe they should look for another building to relocate to.  
Project Scope and Priorities: As noted in the previous meeting, there were more program needs than 
the space available in the building. Committee members discussed different priorities and decided to 
use the next scheduled meeting to finalize the priorities to determine which programs should be 
included in the project. Also, “needs” vs “wants” need to be prioritized. The original building study had 
surplus space with a building wing being demolished. The current programming exceeds the building’s 
square footage. David Blatt suggested that the committee get together to make final decisions on the 
building layout.  There should be adequate space for future growth for the departments assigned to this 
building. Town Hall needs 2,000 SF archival storage.  DAI noted that should final decisions not be made 
soon, there would be potential need for additional committee meetings beyond the 7 that are in the 
contract.  Timeline:  Tom noted DAI planned to complete the design development cost estimate by the 
end of October so the committee could report to the town in the November Town meeting. Without a 
direction from the town on the final program, it would be unlikely for DAI to complete the estimate by 
end of October. Committee members noted it would be important to take the time to deliberate on the 
design. It was discussed if DAI was contractually required to complete the project by November. The 
original contract stated that “all deliverables to the town, including the design development drawings 

===PAGE 2===
and the various noted reports and opinion of probable costs were to be completed by July 17, 2020” 
with attendance at the November Town Meeting being the conclusion. Due to COVID, the project was 
delayed. Subsequent discussions with the committee suggested that DAI was committed to complete 
the tasks for the November Special Town Meeting.  
Site Plan Review: The committee liked the one-way access drive around the building with the parking 
shown on the side and in the rear. Retaining green space and possibly creating a ‘recreational’ space to 
the Northwest of the building (in the rear V of the building) was considered advantageous by the 
committee. It was determined that the existing gravel area to the north should be turned into a formal 
parking area. There were multiple opinions on the configuration and size of the existing gravel parking 
area. A configuration that allows for vehicles to enter and exit from the main driveway is required. 
Landscaping is to be provided in the parking lot in the gravel area so that there is not a large parking lot 
appearance. Additional angled parking is to be provided across from the library and eliminate the 
existing parallel parking spaces. Locations for accessible parking spaces were discussed.  Landscaping is 
to be provided in front of the new visitor parking spaces. in front of the building. The committee asked 
how storm water was going to be addressed and MAI responded with either subsurface 
detention/infiltration or connection into the existing drainage system Greg Roy is going to get MAI the 
drainage report and associated plans for the Middle/High School. A school bus drop-off area will be 
located near the boiler building. Access for fire trucks and buses around the perimeter of the building 
and through the associated parking was discussed.  Plan review meetings were set up with users to 
finalize the program and discuss room adjacencies and flow within the department. DAI/LiRo met with 
representatives from, the town manager’s office, the office of school superintendent, PACC, assessors, 
planning, building commissioner, DAI/LiRo exchanged email clarifications from BOH, building 
commissioner, and conservation committee.  Tom requested the information to establish the occupancy 
load of the building defined by the building code. The three options discussed included: seminars- setup 
with chairs but without tables, meetings- setup with tables and chairs, and group event- standing only. 
Gymnasium would be used as an activity space not a meeting room. It is currently being used for 
pickleball and wellness classes,  BCCL for sports activities, and by town clerk for election. David Blatt 
mentioned it would not be used for town meetings. A raised floor or stage located in Conference Room 
was discussed with opposing views. It was agreed that Conference Room #3 should become tables and 
chairs storage and could be smaller, allowing Conference Room #4 to expand. Areas and use for meeting 
rooms are stated below:  Conference #1: 319SF. Tables and chairs. Conference #2: 620SF. Tables and 
chairs. Conference #3: becomes tables and chairs storage. Conference #4: 2,000SF + half of #3 200SF. 
Classrooms or seats. Conference #5: swapped with storage next to Custodian closet. 292NSF. Tables and 
chairs. Conference #6: 1046SF. Classrooms or seats. Heather Lemieux noted there could be up to 3 
meetings during the same evening that would require conference rooms. Committee members will 
make final decisions about the conference rooms during their next meeting. Committee suggested to 
evaluate program to identify duplicate spaces and streamline space use. Some suggestions included: 
Reduce total area of archival storage by re-evaluating how current archives are stored. Review 
redundant spaces: historic commission office, Board of Appeals located in planning. Shared offices for 
select board members and state representatives can use conference room. Post meeting note: Storage 
inventory:  #1: West wing and front inside corner- 354SF. Remove existing vault  #2: Next to IT- 266SF.  
#3: Current “stage”- 650SF plus floor above 650SF. #4: North wing- 1,046SF v. Dedicated departmental 
storage are located in the following departments: 1. School Superintendent and Special Services 2. 
Extended Day 3. Boys and Girls Club 4. Town Clerk, includes vault 5. Planning Department 6. Building 
===PAGE 3===
Department 7. Treasurer/Finance 8. Town Manager 9. Veterans Affairs- storage in office 10. Assessors 
11. Board of Health Page 4 of 4 12. PACC 8.  
Future Meetings: October 6, 2020 at 5:30PM- for building committee members only - to finalize the 
building program. October 14 at 5:30PM. October 22 at 5:30PM 
Minutes: The committee reviewed and approved minutes from February 26, 2020, and March 11, 2020, 
approved unanimously with 1 abstention by Michael-Ray Jeffreys. 
Discussion took place that we would need a new clerk because of a new vacancy, Tanner Cole resigned 
from the committee as the planning board representative. 
Public Comment: none 
Meeting adjourned at 8:58 P.M.  
 
 