===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
December 14, 2020 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew Allison 
Members absent: David Blatt 
Architects:  Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: John Londa  
Community Guests: Jon Hogue 
Meeting called to order at 5:33pm. 
Public Comment: Greg Roy stated Mr. Hogue stepped up and expressed interest in joining the 
community, submitted a talent bank form, and the Select Board will consider his appointment in 
January.  
Update from Design Team: 
Tom Lam stated he had different meetings with the departments he also would like to touch base with 
the committee on the toilet count and he has a list of questions regarding construction or operational 
costs. The last piece on some images of the exterior entrances and signage for new branding.  He stated 
he has to leave at 7 PM for a birthday dinner. He plans to review the working document of the flooring, 
ceiling, walls, doors, lighting, millwork, audio visual, and finishes. 
Tom Lam still needs to meet with the clerk and finance. Are there certain standards for finishes? Tom 
Lam has a few questions to prepare the cost estimator. In regards to civil engineering what is the limit of 
the work in the start and stop the level of degradation that would warrant pavement: driveways and 
sidewalks. Is there a desire to mill and overlay pavement driveways and sidewalks around the area. 
Dave Passios inquired about ADA compliance. Greg Roy stated in his opinion touch as much as we need 
to for the building.  Greg Roy said the road to Mass Ave into the site is new from the school project. 
Dave Passios stated the traffic study has issues of missing things on the driveway coming in from 2A like 
sidewalks but he agrees that this is not in this projects scope.  Greg Roy stated we want to deal with the 
parking and improvements to the building, surrounding sidewalks, bring to current code, but not extras.  
Michael Ray Jeffrey said we recently approved for funding it comes right up to the building and the 
architects should check with the town manager. 

===PAGE 2===
Tom stated the civil engineers will send back a draft to the committee to verify and architects will check 
with the town manager before sending draft. 
Matthew Allison acquired about the property line.  Can we get an ANR out of this?  Greg Roy asked if we 
can get this building on a separate parcel in this process?  Greg Roy asked for a quick review or sketch 
and how it might look.  Matthew Allison would like a recorded parcel delineation. Greg Roy asked first 
for a zoning scrub. Matthew Allison stated that portion was done already.  Ed DiSalvio stated said he 
would talk to engineering and ask about a specific property line and owned by the town.  Dave Passios 
mentioned care and custody as well. 
Tom Lam mentioned a lot of windows have been replaced and we will plan to replace just what we need 
to. Many exterior classroom doors will be replaced by windows.  Roof and accessories plan to be 
replaced.  John Londa confirmed the roof was built in 1986 and is in need of replacement.  Ed DiSalvio 
also stated that our plan was to replace the roof.  Interior furniture and furnishings were discussed.  
Dave Passios stated most furniture to be re-used. Matthew Allison and Greg Roy concurred. Greg Roy 
said if we know we need it, and we limit what we buy to what we need. Michael-Ray Jeffreys agreed.  
Matthew Allison said bid alternatives should be considered as a wish list and used. Greg Roy stated use 
as much as we have, only buy what we need, and add some back in if we come in under bid.   
Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated he concurred with the discussion. Tom Lam stated he would reach out to 
the department heads on current needs and the expectation that their furniture will come with them.  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated the need will be in storage area, IT, and PACC budget.  Greg Roy said PACC 
has the budget to outfit their space.  Dave Passios mentioned basic gross space for schools. Tom Lam 
mentioned the school area spaces will move their furniture and architecturally they will have new 
ceilings and lights, but keep walls and give a fresh coat of paint and do a cost estimate of replacing the 
floors.  same furniture floor walls.  Ed DiSalvio stated hard and soft costs will be put together, during 
construction process will be when we develop alternate bid options. 
Brian Lehtinen mentioned hazardous materials and asbestos flooring in the school areas. Ed DiSalvio 
stated that was one of his questions. Do you want the building 100% abated? The town already has a 
plan for mitigation. Or abatement when we touch something. 
Greg Roy stated he assumed we would abate it.  Ed DiSalvio stated you may not want to chase the lead 
paint. Michael-Ray Jeffreys said all areas with children should have no lead paint or asbestos and any 
space that staff are working in there should be no asbestos. It could prove to be cost effective to leave 
the other areas. Matthew Allison stated when it comes time to tear down the building it will need to be 
abated, except lead paint. Matthew Allison stated to abate the asbestos and any areas of lead paint that 
will be occupied. Greg Roy agreed and we should not leave dangling hazmat and will be costly in the 
future.  John Londa stated the cove base all around the classroom and adhesive is seventy years old and 
would recommend to take it out.  Greg Roy said just get rid of it. Brian Lehtinen stated it is a selling point 
to the community. Greg Roy stated it would not go over well presenting this to the public and to 
Matthew Allison’s point, the building has a life expectancy and the cost will not get cheaper. 
Ed DiSalvio asked should we go with the middle of the road product pricing instead of the high end? 
Tom Lam mentioned the cost estimator will identify this and we can identify this before the final report 
is given.   Greg Roy stated on some significant things like flooring and counters that will take a lot of 
abuse and would like to see some life cycle cost analysis. Dave Passios agreed, finishes in high traffic 
areas we may want to go with something that will hold up a lot better and the architects should make 
those assumptions and we can adjust if necessary. Tom Lam asked if transaction windows should be 
uniform. Greg Roy stated his preference would be uniform but if there are compelling reasons it should 
be considered.  Matthew Allison stated Michael-Ray Jeffries left and he is leaving at 6:30pm.  Dave 
Passios stated in regards to the windows, security, safety, and consistency should be considered. Brian 
Lehtinen stated he would like to see the architects go back to the users and the committee has lost a 
===PAGE 3===
quorum.  Greg Roy stated we will have a working session with the committee on Thursday then meet in 
January. Dave Passios agreed. 
Tom Lam suggested joining for the first 30 minutes to explain the toilets and also explain project sheets 
and images for the entrances. Ed DiSalvio will plan to attend to discuss the traffic study and stated that 
it should go to DPW for future work.   
 
Meeting was adjourned due to lack of a quorum at 6:32 PM. 
 
 