===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
June 16, 2021 5:30pm 
Members Present: David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Kristina Masaitis, Matthew 
Allison, David Blatt, Greg Roy 
Members absent: none 
Architects:  none 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux  
Community Guests: none 
 
Meeting called to order at 5:35pm. 
 
Public Comment:  Chair introduced newest member Kristina Masaitis  
 
Review Scope of Work/Contract from DiGiorgio: 
Greg Roy stated he wanted to talk through the scope of work. Tom Lamm is no longer with DiGiorgio 
and Ed DiSalvo would be our project manager. The contract will be executed July 1. Discussion took 
place on whether the building would be 2 or 3 floors and that 38 feet was the general maximum height.  
Discussion also took place on multiple floors and how that would now look in regards elevators, 
necessity for a gym, town offices, noise, security, separate access, and movement children in the 
building.  Discussion took place on whether a garage or a walk in 2nd floor would make sense. There was 
discussion that the scope of the work would not include a garage as the committee is looking for a like 
kind estimate of a new building of the same uses for the citizens to make an educated decision on 
moving forward with the TCP building.  
Discussion took place on the 60 day timeline and the minimal scope of work and we would push for 
November town meeting. Greg Roy stated we owe the town a funding article for renovation. Discussion 
took place whether there should be additional articles on funding a rebuild. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated 

===PAGE 2===
the select board would have a funding article for the old primary lot by November, request to demolish 
and create a park and that the land use director stated if the town hall was moved to the primary lot it 
would be all paved with parking and drainage and not viable and limited. Discussion took place on the 
order of articles.  
Greg Roy and the town manager would communicate with the architects 1) in person, 2) rendering 
outside, 3) materials provided 48 hours in advance, 4) 60 day timeline.  
The town manager verified the 38 feet maximum height.  
Review and Approve Minutes:  
Dave Passios motioned to approve the minutes for May 26th, seconded by Michael-Ray Jeffreys. 
Matthew Allison, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Kristina Masaitis, aye, Brian Lehtinen, aye, David Blatt, aye, 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, Greg Roy, aye. 
 
Correspondence to and from the Committee: none 
 
Future Meeting Schedule: July 7th and July 28th at 5:30pm  
 
Public comment: Greg Roy stated we would plan to meet in person. The town manager stated it was up 
to each committee and requires public access and you could do a hybrid. 
 
Dave Passios made a motion to adjourn, Michael-Ray Jeffreys seconded at 6:39pm. Roll call vote: 
Matthew Allison, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Kristina Masaitis, aye, David Blatt, Michael-
Ray Jeffreys, aye, Greg Roy, aye. 
 