===PAGE 1===
TCP Building Design Committee 
Gregory Roy, Chair 
David Blatt, Vice-Chair                 T: 978-582-4144  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Member                F: 978-582-4148 
Brian Lehtinen, Member         17 Main Street, P.O Box 135 
David Passios, Member        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Member 
 
TCP Building Design Committee Minutes 10/6/21 
 
Members Present: Gregory Roy, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Brian Lehtinen, David Passios, 
Kristina Masaitis  
Members Absent: 
Architect: John Zychowicz 
Town Employees: Megan Lordan 
Community Guests: 
Call to Order: 5:33 
Public Comment: None 
Public Comment from Committee Member: None 
Input to/update from DiGiorgio  
Bathrooms were added to the town side of the building. There was a kitchen and bathrooms also added to 
the children’s program side of the building as well as storage to act as a buffer between the two sides of 
the building. The children’s side is now at 5,800 square feet.  
Discussion on what the committee would like to see changed about current design.  
Dave Passion talks about shortening the children’s wing and the second elevator were brought up.  
Michael-Ray Jeffries talks about wants to switch the town manager suite with the Veterans Association so 
that it is in the corner of the building and more private. Also wants to switch meeting room #2 with 
conference room#1 to accommodate town employees. Also talked about changing bathrooms int eh 
children’s area to be more secure and easily accessible to employees to make sure student to teacher ratio 
isn’t compromised. Also has concerns with the kitchen access from the meeting room and that is should 
be accessed through the multipurpose room. Wants to pay for a range hood for stove now as it will be 
very hard to add it afterwards. 
Kristina Masaitis also brought up concerns about bathrooms in the extended day and whether or not it will 
affect staff’s ability to watch the students.  
===PAGE 2===
Greg Roy makes a motion to Approve Plan given by DiGiorgio Seconded by Michael Ray Jeffreys and 
Dave Passios Gregory Roy aye, David Blatt aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, David 
Passios aye, Kristina Masaitis aye 
Talks about parking. There is a want to add more parking closer to the building as well as an area that 
could be overflow for the school. Talks of making sure that the access to parking is taken into account 
while creating a pan. Greg Roy shows his plan for parking and talks about moving the building 15 feet 
back. 
Motion to adopt Greg Roy’s parking plan made by Dave Passios with caveat of adding spacing/ moving 
spaces around to make sure that there is enough handicap parking. Second by Brian Lehtinen. Floor open 
for discussion.  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys is not in favor. Wants to have more discussion on the parking area around the 
school part. Motion is withdrawn.  
Public Outreach: 
Talks of when outreach to the community should be done and where it should be posted. Discussion of 
having a meeting a week or two before town meeting to inform the public.  
Future Meetings: 
10/13/21, 10/20/21, 10/27/21 
Public Comment: None 
Public Comment Committee:  
Meeting adjourn Motion by Greg Roy, Moved by Michael-Ray Jeffreys and Seconded by David Passios.  
Gregory Roy aye, David Blatt aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, David Passios aye, 
Kristina Masaitis aye 