===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
June 6, 2022 6:00pm 
Members Present: Kristina Masaitis, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, David Blatt, Greg Roy, Peter 
Beardmore  
Members absent: Matthew Allison 
Town Employees: none 
Community Guests: Anthony Sculimbrene, APDC representative 
Meeting called to order at 6:03pm. 
1. Public Comment:  None 
2. Review Draft Position on Storage Needs and child-related services 
Storage position for the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee was discussed and a draft will 
be shared with the members. Peter Beardmore asked if there is a timeline. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated 
this is a high priority for the town manager but we do not have a contract in place and we expect as we 
go into the fall we will have a better understanding of storage needs.  Peter Beardmore stated we have 
new information about digitizing and disposal of documents but there is additional opportunities that 
we were not aware of before the capital planning project and this will be a lot of work. Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys agreed and that we need a total storage space needs from the town offices and the schools and 
we will have a better understanding of what needs to be saved and in a couple months we will know but 
the schools haven’t started. Peter Beardmore stated there are long term and short term storage needs 
where some departments will need files in their office and the data we have is old.  Michael-Ray Jeffries 
stated we are really focused on the long term storage as a need to address.  Greg Roy agreed this is a 
very good thing to address. Brian Lehtinen agreed the public did not want to create a high cost new 
space for storage in a new building and how to fund school storage. Capital planning was stated as the 
schools best option to address storage needs.  
3. Discuss Criteria for Program Utilization  
 

===PAGE 2===
Michael-Ray Jeffries asked how do we re-evaluate requests? Greg Roy stated we are taking another look 
at way we prioritize space in our project. When we did it before we invited the various Lunenburg 
groups outside of town offices and then we all came up with a ranking and we did an average. When we 
ran out of space we cut off the list. It was a hard process because there was more need than we had 
space.  We filled the space we had a available but not an analysis of our true need and would this be 
different if we didn’t start with a large building. We also need to look closely at storage space, use, and 
each department space needs. Kristina Masaitis asked about digitizing requirements. Michael-Ray 
Jeffries stated this requirement would be required by departments so we are able to share with the 
public what is required to keep a paper copy. Anthony Sculimbrene stated if you look at the numbers, 
what the staff has asked is reasonable. 150 square feet is a gsa standard, and a middle of the road 
approach is 200 square feet for offices, totaling 12,500 square feet, much different than 55,000 square 
feet and would be a cost closer to $9 million.  Town hall and Ritter could also satisfy the administrative 
requirements. Peter Beardmore stated his approach was pressing needs and how much money we have 
and what buildings we have and created 7 priorities: Budget, addressing school and town offices, 
preserve our precious historical buildings, minimize impact during construction, address PACC, address 
educational programming space, and address community space.  Kristina Masaitis stated tax payers are 
going to be hesitant because of the cost no matter what. Peter Beardmore stated we need town 
manager, the select board and finance committee to all be on board. Brian Lehtinen stated the previous 
priority list from previous minutes: Town Offices, School Department Offices, PACC, School Programs, 
Community Kitchen Lions, and Boys and Girls Club. David Blatt agreed we need to know the budget and 
work backwards and also decide if we are combining schools and town. David Blatt believes the Ritter is 
the most historic building and the town hall is an old church that the church did not want. David Blatt 
questioned whether we can move the school programming component to a new Turkey Hill building. 
David Blatt stated priority list: town offices, school office, and administrative offices only, and they do 
not need to be in the same building. It was mentioned that crossing the street is not good for our 
employees. Michael-Ray Jeffries stated his priorities are administrative offices, a gym and a kitchen, 
extended day needs a long term plan.  
 
4. Member Presentations: Ideal Scenarios for Ritter, Town Hall, and TCP  
 
Brian Lehtinen stated his ideal scenario was based on cost savings. New build if people really want it. 
Then use the old primary land with community center with PACC but no kitchen or gym, no school 
programming or offices to save funds. Use capital funds to renovate other buildings for schools and TCP 
torn down. Town hall for rental space or community space. Utilize school spaces for school 
programming. Or if not a new build, build a new Turkey Hill where TCP is located and renovate Turkey 
Hill for town offices and school spaces as the building is a newer building than TCP.  
Michael-Ray Jeffries stated he recently walked in Turkey Hill and agreed Turkey Hill is almost move in 
ready, checks the box for gym and kitchen, a significant abatement, new plumbing, 2nd floor has 
asbestos ceiling tiles, electrical panel upgrade, but new electricity may not be a challenge, has a 
separate entrance and can be partitioned. Boiler room is adequate, but no AC. Turkey Hill could be 
converted in phases rather than a large renovation such as TCP. It also has a first and second floor 
already. Michael-Ray Jeffries also stated TCP land is not an ideal place for a school. Michael-Ray Jeffries 
also stated putting school offices in Ritter.  
Peter Beardmore put his priorities in order: Restore Ritter and Town hall, begin construction on a 
purpose build municipal building (Ritter and town hall offices) on a budget of $10-15 million, 15,000-
25,0000 location of 635 Mass Ave, 30 School St or TCP, then retrofit Ritter to meet needs of School 
Administration and possibly ACE. Build a PACC studio and Office on a budget of $1-1.5 million, possibly 
===PAGE 3===
preserve a small amount of space of TCP and demolish unused space, until schools decide where to 
replace Turkey Hill.  
Greg Roy stated his ideal list would be build a new town hall at school street property, including a space 
for PACC, including Ritter and town hall offices, then renovate Ritter for school administration and add 
on if needed and add functionality, shared parking and walkable, renovate town hall for meeting space 
and other leasable spaces and lions club, keep school programs with the schools, and have them be 
more sustainable programs. TCP becomes the new Turkey Hill and envisions current Turkey Hill as fields.   
Kristina Masaitis stated her scenario would be all town offices in Ritter and open town hall for town 
space like farmers market, boys and girls club and rent it out to people who need space. TCP could be 
used for lions club, recreational program, and after school programming, and demolish wings as needed. 
School offices could be in a separate space in TCP. PACC could be given space in TCP possibly near the 
garage.  
David Blatt stated an additional to Ritter could hold all offices. Let the town vote to build a new school 
and renovate Turkey Hill would be an ideal scenario to have a vote pass. Peter Beardmore stated that 
the distance of Turkey Hill campus not as walkable and beneficial for eagle house and boys and girls club 
as TCP for gym and kitchen space.  
We will pick up the conversation at our next meeting to figure out the best way forward. Michael-Ray 
Jeffries stated he will provide these in a condensed document.  
Anthony Sculimbrene stated we should look at memorial drive as a community area and facilities. 
Renovating is always cheaper than new and cost of demolition is always there. PACC does not need a 
studio but the equipment needed and in 2029 with Comcast’s help we may not need a studio to stream.  
5. Discussion on Committee Communications and Public Outreach: Peter Beardmore discussed the 
finance committee and that they are looking at potential projects like the funding and budgeting of what 
we discussed tonight. The finance committee will not act without this committee and select board and 
Peter Beardmore would like to see a budget that the committees and town manager agree on. Greg Roy 
stated he agrees that we need a budget from the select board through the finance committee and we 
should not be making it. Michael-Ray Jeffries stated the select board will be reviewing their financial 
policies in August and we need to be more methodical on life span on our inventory and long range 
planning and senior tax relief.   
 
6. Old Business: Agenda Requests and Action Items: None 
 
7. Review and Approve Minutes: Michael-Ray Jeffries stated staff support is months behind and asked 
Brian Lehtinen to take the minutes. May 16th minutes were discussed and a motion was made to 
approve by Peter Beardmore, seconded by Kristina Masaitis. The motion was withdrawn due to lack of 
members who have not read the minutes or were not present at the May 16th meeting.  
 
8. Future Meeting Schedule: Next meeting will be Jun 27th and July 18th, 2022.  
 
9. Public Comment: None 
  
10. Adjourn: 
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, made a motion to adjourn,  seconded by Greg Roy at 8:28pm. Roll call vote: 
Anthony Sculimbrene, aye, David Blatt, aye, Peter Beardmore, aye, Greg Roy, aye, Kristina Masaitis, aye 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye. 