===PAGE 1===
  
  
  
LUNENBURG MUNICIPAL  
BUILDING DESIGN COMMITTEE 
 
 
 
     MEETING NOTICE 
 
Monday, March 7, 2022 – 6:00 PM 
AGENDA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel. The recording of this meeting will be available on the Lunenburg Public Access 
YouTube channel within 24 hours. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, this public meeting is being conducted remotely. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely:  
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 792 
737 0353#.  If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID 
is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app 
users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. Public participation is encouraged, and public comments may be 
permitted on regular agenda topics in addition to the public comment periods, at the discretion of the Chair.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be 
brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. Public participation is encouraged, and public comments 
may be welcome during committee member discussions, at the discretion of the Chair. 
 
6:00 PM - Call to Order 
1. Public Comment 
a. Public 
b. Committee Members 
 
2. Discussion on calendar and execution of charge 
a. Brainstorm: Major milestones and/or phases 
b. Brainstorm: Steps required to achieve or complete major milestones and/or phases 
c. Identify needed information/documents 
 
3. Discussion on Committee Communications and Public Outreach 
a. Prepared updates, findings, positions, and questions to appointing boards 
b. Social Media Engagement 
c. Notices and Bulletins in the Lunenburg Ledger or on Public Access Television 
d. APDC Advisor 
 
4. Discuss Potential Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
a. Progress Update 
b. Design Development Funding 
  
978-582-4144      Fax 978-582-4148 
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chair, Select Board  
David Blatt, Vice-Chair, Community Member 
Brian Lehtinen, Clerk, School Committee 
Peter Beardmore, Finance Committee 
Matthew Allison, Planning Board 
Gregory Roy, Community Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Community Member 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
  
  
  c. Disposition of TCP Parcel 
 
5. Old Business 
a. Correspondence to and from the Committee 
b. Action Items / Needed information 
 
6. Review & Approve Minutes 
 
7. Future Meeting Schedule 
First and third Monday of each month, at 6PM 
a. March 21, April 4 
b. Reschedule April 18 Meeting 
 
8. Public Comment 
a. Public 
b. Committee Members 
 
9. Adjourn 