===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
October 21, 2024 5:30pm 
 
 
Members Present: Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, David Blatt, Kristina Masaitis, 
Matthew Allison, Tom Gray 
 
Members absent: David Blatt, Greg Roy 
 
Town Employees: Chris Ruth 
 
Community Guests: Anthony Sculimbrene  
 
Meeting called to order at 5:30pm. 
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys received an email regarding the RFP questioning the process. The RFP 
is framed that everything happens under the supervision of the town manager and that 
interviews are followed by the decision of the procurement officer which is the interim town 
manager and select board and we will comply with the process. 
 
Chris Ruth, the facilities manager gave an update on the status of the TC Passios building. 
The option to use the building for temporary offices is no longer viable; the leaks and heating 
system are the main concerns. Closing off the back section would be ideal and then 
abatement process could start. The likely scenario for office space would be to add the 
addition to the Ritter building first, then renovating town hall and Ritter. Anthony 
Sculimbrine asked about the approximately $300,000 for roof repairs.  Due to the schools 
looking to leave the building, the town decided to put the money on hold. The vast majority 
of the 38 year old roof does not have asbestos. The gymnasium and cafeteria will stay open as 
long as possible.   There were concerns that the cost to renovate TCP will limit the possibility 
to renovate Ritter, Town Hall, add to the Ritter, and to build a new Turkey Hill School. TCP 
is also at an operating loss and potentially a rent increase for the schools. The schools will 
likely leave the building and it will be vacant and at a total loss on operating costs.  
APDC article on action on the Brooks house was discussed. 
13 companies have requested documents. Questions from firms came in and they asked about 
whether there could be a site visit. The committee said we should allow for site visits. Some 
firms asked about previous studies, Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated he would prefer to wait until 
after a firm was picked due to the amount of material. The ranges of costs of projects were 
discussed. The committee agreed to keep it the same.  

===PAGE 2===
There will be a brief update at fall special town meeting. Michael-Ray Jeffries will reach out 
to Finance committee on the 24th of October for an update. Other committees will also need 
to have updates.  
 
 
Motion to adjourn by Thomas Gray at 6:42pm, seconded by Matthew Allison, unanimously 
passed. 
 