===PAGE 1===
        2026 
LUNENBURG SENIOR CITIZEN PROPERTY  
T AX WORK-OFF PROGRAM APPLICATION 
*3rd Quarter Real Estate Tax Abatement  
Return applications to:  Julie Belliveau Asst. Town Manager/Human Resource Director 
Town Hall, 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
CONFIDENTIAL 
Name of applicant              
Address               
Phone numbers (home & cell)            
Birth date        Email          
Social Security Number (required)           
 
RULES & GUIDELINES 
* Applicant must be 60 years of age or over at time of application 
* Applicant must own and occupy the property for at least one year. Only one (1) applicant per real estate  
  tax paying household may apply  
* Hourly rate is $15.00 per hour; earn up to a $1500.00 abatement 
* Hours are exempt from State taxes only. Earnings are subject to Federal and Medicare tax withholdings   
  and are also subject to OBRA if participant is not receiving a pension from either Worcester Regional  
  Retirement or Massachusetts State Teachers Retirement 
* All required paperwork must be completed before any work is done 
* Final amount earned will be applied to your 3rd quarter real estate taxes 
* The Town of Lunenburg is mandated by state law to do a CORI (criminal background check) on any  
   person who works with the Town 
* Applicants must provide verification of useable gross income in order to be considered for the program   
  (prior year 1040 income tax return required) 
* Applicants must apply and be accepted annually for participation in the program 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY 
GRANTED       DENIED      
REASON FOR DENIAL            
PENDING              
PLACEMENT              
LOCATION              
ASST. TM SIGNATURE:           

===PAGE 2===
INCOME INFORMATION  
In order to be considered for this program, applicants must provide  
prior year 1040 Income Tax Return 
If proper proof of income is not attached to the application,  
the Town of Lunenburg reserves the right to reject the application  
All information is kept strictly confidential and not shared with any other department.   
 
Please CHECK yes or no 
• I (and or spouse/or other) own and occupy a home in Lunenburg as my primary residence 
(minimum 1 year)  
YES   NO    
 
• I receive a tax bill in my name (and or spouse/other) 
YES   NO    
 
• I meet the income guidelines listed below (please check household/amount that applies) 
ONE PERSON HOUSEHOLD:  $50,000         
TWO PERSON HOUSEHOLD: $75,000    
 
Do you have any physical restrictions or needs which may affect any position—i.e., physical 
requirements, seasonal, schedule, hours of day (duration and/or number of hours), frequen-
cy, etc.  Please explain 
              
              
               
 
List any relevant experience and skills:          
               
               
If I qualify for the Property Tax Work-Off Program, I understand I may earn up to a maximum of 
$1,500 per household, less applicable taxes and OBRA, to be applied to my 3rd quarter tax bill. 
 
The above statements are true to the best of my knowledge. 
 
SIGNATURE:        DATE:      
 
 
===PAGE 3===
The following department requests have been made for the Property Tax Work-Off Program.  Please  
indicate which areas you would like to apply for.  List preference (1) first choice, (2) second choice,  
(3) third choice. 
 
(   ) 1.  Board of Health 
                 Position: Clerical – filing  and reorganizing. No heavy lifting. 
      Flexible schedule Monday – Thursday 2 hours per week 
(   ) 2.  Building Department Board   
Position: Clerical – Filing, Photo Copying, Stuffing Envelopes 
General office skills, bending, standing for short periods of time and knowledge of filing system. 
 
(    )  3.  Zoning Board of Appeals  
      Position: Clerical—Filing & Stuffing Envelopes 
      General office skills, bending, standing for short periods of time and knowledge of filing system. 
        
(   ) 4.   Council on Aging 
                  Position:  Meals on Wheels Driver – Deliver MOW to Lunenburg residents 1-2 days 
                  per week (approximately 1.5 hrs. per day) Must use own vehicle and have a valid driver’s license.             
                  (3 positions available) 
     
(   )  5.  Council on Aging   
                 Position: Custodial— Sweeping and & washing of building floors, emptying waste  
     baskets, cleaning kitchen & bathrooms. Ability to lift, bend, walk, reach  (Tues & Thurs afternoon  
     3:00 - 5:00 pm)   
 
(   )  6.  Council on Aging  
                 Position: Gardener— (Seasonal) Able to lift, bend, walk, and reach. Skilled with outdoor gardening  
                 equipment such as rakes, wheel barrels, electric trimmers, & shovels. Watering plants. Knowledge  
                 of regional outdoor plants and how to trim shrubs and plants. 
 
(   )  7.  Library   
      Position:  Children’s Room Assistant— Book sorter. Good organizational skills, knowledge &  
      familiarity with children’s books. Positive attitude. Must be able to bend and lift books. (2 positions  
      available) 
 
(  ) 8.  Library  
     Position: Janitorial/Handyman /Landscaping— Self-organizing/managing. Knowledge of basic  
     maintenance. Must be flexible. Must be able to bend/lift & have good mobility   
 
(    ) 9.  Library  
          Position: Gardener— (Seasonal) Able to lift, bend, walk, and reach. Skilled with outdoor gardening  
                 equipment such as rakes, wheel barrels, electric trimmers, & shovels. Watering plants. Knowledge  
                 of gardening, landscaping, grounds keeping, and native species. 
  
(    ) 10. Sewer Dept./DPW   
Position:  Clerical – Filing/Stuffing envelopes 8 times per year, filing, some data entry. 
Requires detail-oriented, reliable, flexible schedule, administratively minded, able to stand or sit for 
long periods. Must be able to lift 15lb. boxes for storage. 
 
 (   ) 11. Treasurer/Tax Collector  
       Position: Clerk – Shredding, Filing, Mailing, Data Entry, Binding after 2PM 
  
(    )     12. Lunenburg Assessors Office  
  Position: General Office Work—Filing, Shredding, Large Mailing Projects 
 
(    )     13. Town Manager’s Office 
  Position: Administrative Support—Filing, organizing, document formatting. Requires the ability to    
 maintain confidentiality. Organizational skills. 
===PAGE 4===
(    )     14. School Department (all schools)  
  Position: Lunch Monitor— monitor children during the lunch period 
 
  LMHS 10:45am-1:00pm 
  THES 10:45am-1:00pm 
   PS 10:45am-1:00pm  
(    )     15. School Department (all schools) 
  Position: Arrival/Dismissal Assistance—Provide adult supervision outside the school as students 
arrive and are dismissed 
  
  LMHS arrival 7:30-7:55am; dismissal 2:20-2:45pm 
  THES arrival 8:40-9:00am; dismissal 2:50-3:20pm 
   PS arrival 8:45-9:05am; dismissal 3:00-3:35pm 
(    )     16. School Department (TCP) 
  Position: TCP Greeter—Sit inside TCP vestibule to open the door for visitors and have them sign 
 in (days or evenings) 
 
  Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:45am and 3:15pm  
 
(    )     17. School Department (LMHS)   
       Position: LMHS Greenhouse Assistant—Assist with the plants in the greenhouse 
 
  Flexible days/hours during school vacation weeks in December, February, and April (school 
calendar is  posted on the district website); summer between mid-June and mid-August  
 
(    )     18. School Department (all schools)   
       Position: Clerical support—Assist with clerical duties in the schools or school administration office 
 
  TCP Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:00am and 5:30pm 
  PS Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:30am and 4:00pm 
  THES Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:30am and 4:00pm 
  LMHS Flexible days/hours M-F between 7:30am and 3:30pm 
(    )     19. School Department    
       Position: Gardener—Planting and tending the school garden areas 
   
  Flexible days/hours April-November  
 
(    )     20. School Department (all schools)   
       Position: Decorator—Assist with seasonal or monthly theme decorating in the schools 
 
  TCP Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:00am and 5:30pm 
  PS Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:30am and 4:00pm 
  THES Flexible days/hours M-F between 8:30am and 4:00pm 
(    )     21. School Department (all schools)   
       Position: Recess duty—Monitor children for appropriate behavior and safety during the recess  
      period at Turkey Hill 
 
  LMHS 11:30am-1:00pm 
  THES 10:45am-1:00pm 
  PS 10:45am-1:35pm 
 
   
===PAGE 5===
(    )     22. School Athletic Department    
       Position: Athletic Assistant— Provide assistance for athletic field and equipment preparation 
 
 LMHS flexible days/hours in the afternoon and evening  
 
(    )     23. School Department    
       Position: Classroom helper—under the direction of the classroom teacher supporting classroom              
                  management and assisting students with various academic activities (including reading to  
       children) 
  PS flexible days/hours M-F between 9am-3pm 
  THES flexible days/hours M-F between 9am-3pm 
(    )     24. School Department    
       Position: Tutor— Provide students will help in needed academic areas 
 
  PS flexible days/hours M-F 9am-4pm 
  THES flexible days/hours M-F 9am-4pm 
  LMS flexible days/hours M-F 8am-3:30pm 
 
 
 
Do you have any restrictions or needs which may affect any position – i.e., physical requirements, seasonal  
schedule, hours of day (duration and/or number of hours), frequency, etc.  Please explain 
 
               
 
               
 
               
 
 
 
 
List any relevant experience and skills:           
 
               
 
               
 
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                
   Print Name              Signature            Date 