===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Police Department 
 
Policy Number: 
4.39 
Subject:  
Reserve Officer Program 
 
Issue Date: 
12/01/2020 
Revision Date(s): 
1/18/2022; 2/15/2022 
Effective Date:  
12/01/2020 
Massachusetts Police Accreditation 
Standards Referenced: 
16.3.1; 16.3.2; 16.3.3; 16.3.4; 16.3.5; 16.3.6,  
16.3.7 
Issuing Authority: 
 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel 
 
 
Page 1 of 10 
 
 
I. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS AND GUIDELINES 
Reserve officers are sworn police officers who work on a less than full time basis. They are 
given law enforcement authority and enforcement power, as well as responsibilities to the 
community, equivalent to those of full-time officers.  The selection process for reserves is the 
same as for full time officers. Reserve officers are considered “employees” when applying 
department directives, rules, and regulations.  
 
II. POLICY 
It is the policy of this department that:  
A. Reserve officers receive training as specified by the Massachusetts Municipal Police 
Training Committee pursuant to M.G.L. c.41, §96B.  This will include both recruit and 
in-service standards. 
 
III. DEFINITIONS 
A. Reserve Officer: A sworn officer who works less than full time.   
B. Sworn:   Those members of the department, full and part time, who are duly sworn and 
vested with police power under M.G.L. Chapter 41, Section 98.  Sworn personnel have 
the authority to make a “full custody” arrest (as opposed to a citizen’s arrest).  
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 10 
 
IV. PROCEDURES [16.3.1] 
A. Reserve Officers 
1. AUTHORITY: Reserve officers are sworn officers who work less than full time. For 
further information, see Department Policies & Procedures 4.15 Authority and 
Responsibility. 
2. SELECTION: The selection criteria for reserve officers are the same as those for full-
time officers. For further information, see the department policy 4.37 Hiring Process 
[16.3.2] 
3. TRAINING 
a. The police department requires all sworn reserve officers to complete a recruit 
academy training program specified by the Massachusetts Municipal Police 
Training Committee prior to any routine assignment in any capacity in which the 
reserve officer is allowed to carry a weapon or is in a position to make an arrest. 
For further information, see the department policy on Training and Career 
Development. [16.3.3] 
b. Reserve Officers must complete a minimum of 256 hours of Field Training with 
the Department.  
c. Reserve officers shall receive in-service training specified by the Massachusetts 
Municipal Police Training Committee. For further information, see the 
department policy on Training and Career Development. [16.3.5] 
d. Reserve officers shall be trained in use-of-force policies and tested for weapons 
proficiency with the same frequency as full-time officers. For further information, 
see the department policy on Use of Force. [16.3.6] 
e. Reserve Officers must be able to perform the duties that are outlined in the 
Essential Functions of a Police Officer. [Policy 4.35]  Refer to Appendix A.  
4. LIABILITY INSURANCE: Reserve officers are provided with public liability 
protection under applicable laws equal to that provided to full-time officers. [16.3.7] 
5. UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT  
a. Reserve officers shall wear the same uniforms and equipment as full-time 
officers. See the department policy on Uniforms and Equipment. [16.3.4] 
b. Uniforms shall be purchased at the cost of the Reserve Officer. 
c. Firearms and ammunition shall be issued by the Lunenburg Police Department. 
d. Duty Belt, Holsters, Magazine Pouches, O.C. Holder, Taser Holster, and 
Handcuff case shall be issued by the Lunenburg Police Department.   
6. BENEFITS AND INSURANCE 
a. Reserve officers killed in the line of duty shall be eligible for death benefits.1 
 
 
 
 
 
                                       
1 M.G.L. c. 32, §100A 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 10 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
I. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS POLICE OFFICER TASK LIST 
 
A. Patrol and Incident Response 
 
1. Provide back-up to other police personnel. 
 
2. In response to a report of child abuse, observe and evaluate the physical or mental 
condition of the child, notify the appropriate agencies, and/or place the child in 
protective custody to protect the child from physical or mental harm. 
 
3. Respond to a crime in progress and secure the area to effect an arrest. 
 
4. When confronted with victim(s), conduct patient assessment and administer immediate 
care to prevent further injury, trauma, or death. 
 
5. Communicate/negotiate with a hostage taker to reduce his/her anxiety and prevent the 
loss of life pending arrival of hostage negotiator. 
 
6. Appraise the situation, separate individuals, and discuss the grievances to restore order 
at a domestic dispute. 
 
7. Use communications equipment (e.g., radio, computer, telephone) to exchange 
information relative to official duties (e.g., reporting status and location to dispatcher, 
maintaining contact with other agencies). 
 
8. Operate a Department vehicle at a high rate of speed, using emergency lights and siren 
and maintaining public safety, to respond to emergency calls for service. 
 
9. Request assistance from other police personnel. 
 
10. Respond to an alarm, secure area, and inspect for entry to protect life and property and 
apprehend the violator or violators. 
 
11. Participate in a large scale coordinated search for one or more persons (e.g., escapees, 
mental patients, lost people, etc.) to locate or apprehend the person(s). 
 
12. Separate individuals in a fight or disturbance (not a domestic dispute) to restore order 
and minimize injury to those individuals or property. 
 
13. Operate a Department vehicle under non-emergency conditions within a specific 
geographic area to observe and detect unusual activities or circumstances, or violations 
of the law in order to deter crime and provide service to the public. 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 10 
 
14. Protect one or more persons (confidential sources, witnesses, etc.) to provide for the 
safety and security of the person(s) and the public. 
 
15. Respond to incidents requiring your presence as specified in Departmental policies. 
 
16. Maintain current information such as names, faces, and previous arrest records of 
known criminals believed to be in the area. 
 
17. Observe and check entrances to buildings and premises to maintain security of 
property. 
 
18. Identify a person as disturbed (e.g., mentally, emotionally) or incapacitated (e.g., drunk, 
epileptic) and detain that person in order to provide for placement. 
 
19. Erect physical barriers, bodily serve as a barrier, issue verbal commands, and/or utilize 
the necessary degree of authority to effect the safe, peaceful, and orderly flow of a 
crowd of people. 
 
20. Patrol a specific geographic area on foot to observe and detect unusual activities or 
circumstances, or violations of the law. 
 
21. Serve on special details to help maintain peace (e.g., abortion demonstrations, animal 
rights).  
 
B. Traffic Enforcement 
 
1. When outside of vehicle (e.g., making a traffic stop), monitor pedestrian or vehicular 
traffic to reduce risk of injury to self or others and take evasive action when necessary. 
 
2. Conduct field sobriety tests to determine probable cause for breath or blood test and/or 
arrest for alcohol or drug use. 
 
3. Protect an accident scene to allow for a determination of the facts of the accident. 
 
4. Direct/reroute traffic, place emergency signaling devices (e.g., flares) or take other 
necessary action to ensure a safe and orderly flow of traffic when confronted with 
unusual traffic conditions (e.g., accidents, stoplight out, parades). 
 
5. Determine the status (e.g., stolen, disabled) of a stopped or abandoned vehicle, 
including checking for inhabitants (e.g., children, victims). 
 
6. Estimate vehicle speed visually or use speed detection equipment (e.g., radar, lydar, 
vascar, stopwatches) to determine the speed of a vehicle. 
 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 10 
 
7. Stop vehicles for cause and check for required documents, defective equipment (e.g., 
headlights, tires), and other violations to issue citations or warnings and to aid in the 
safe and legal operation of vehicles on the road. 
 
8. Issue a citation to a traffic violator. 
 
9. Impound or supervise impounding of equipment or vehicles left on the roadway. 
 
C. Investigations 
 
1. Identify and collect evidence at a crime scene to preserve that evidence for use in an 
investigation. 
 
2. Protect a crime scene from contamination by controlling access to the scene and 
erecting physical barriers to preserve the evidence of a crime. 
 
3. Document the elements of a crime and identify potential witnesses and suspects to 
produce a prosecutable case. 
 
4. Evaluate evidence (e.g., article, substance) to determine its relationship to an 
investigation. 
 
5. Transport evidence to various locations (e.g., lab, court), maintaining an unbroken 
chain of custody. 
 
6. Canvass the neighborhood, asking questions of persons in order to locate and identify 
one or more witnesses, victims, or suspects of a crime. 
 
7. Inspect a suspected controlled substance to make a preliminary determination of its 
identity and request further lab tests as needed. 
 
8. Determine the probable facts of the incident from examination and comparison of 
statements and other evidence. 
 
9. Interview and take written statements from the general public, witnesses, victims, or 
suspects to obtain and record information pertinent to the enforcement, regulatory, and 
service functions of the Department. 
 
10. Evaluate individuals to determine their credibility and/or manner in which they should 
be handled (e.g., during interrogations). 
 
11. Identify assets for potential seizure at a crime scene. 
 
12. Observe one or more persons, places, and/or things to collect information and evidence 
of criminal activities. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 10 
 
D. Arrest-Related  
 
1. Display or discharge a Department approved firearm to protect self and/or the public. 
 
2. Display or utilize a Department issued non-firearm weapon (baton, spray) in a 
defensive manner to control one or more persons in accordance with Department 
policy. 
 
3. Search one or more persons for weapons, fruits of a crime, or contraband to effect an 
arrest, protect oneself and the public, and/or to obtain evidence. 
 
4. Search a vehicle for weapons, fruits of crime, or contraband to effect an arrest, protect 
self and the public, and/or to obtain evidence. 
 
5. Distinguish between felony and misdemeanor classifications when making arrests. 
 
6. Search a building for individuals, weapons, fruits of a crime, or contraband to effect an 
arrest, protect self and the public, and/or to obtain evidence. 
 
7. Physically restrain or subdue a violent or resisting individual or arrestee to protect self, 
the person being restrained, and the public, or to effect custody of an arrestee. 
 
8. Determine applicability of Miranda when arresting and detaining suspects. 
 
9. Signal a felon to stop (e.g., emergency light, siren, P.A.) in order to effect an arrest or 
contain the felon and await backup. 
 
10. Make judgments about probable cause for warrantless searches. 
 
11. Operate a Department vehicle at a high rate of speed, maintaining public safety and in 
compliance with Departmental pursuit policy, to pursue and apprehend one or more 
violators. 
 
12. Determine whether suspects require medical attention. 
 
13. Physically restrain or control a non-violent individual or arrestee to protect self, the 
person being restrained, and the public, or to effect custody of an arrestee. 
 
14. Ensure prisoners are held and detained in compliance with Departmental policy and 
applicable statutes. 
 
15. Legally force entry into building to apprehend suspect and/or evidence. 
 
16. Record the arrest of an individual (e.g., fill out forms, photograph) to document that 
arrest and possible detention. 
 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 10 
 
17. Pursue a suspect or violator on foot. 
 
18. Review computer and/or booking sheet to obtain information about booked suspects 
(e.g., criminal history, outstanding warrants). 
 
19. Make recommendations for strip or body cavity search. 
 
20. Transport person(s) (e.g., witness, victim), maintaining safety, for some official 
purpose. 
 
E. Evidence/Property Management 
 
1. Ensure the secure storage of evidence and property in the designated location. 
 
2. Ensure the maintenance of chain of custody for evidence. 
 
3. Release property or evidence to authorized individuals. 
 
F. Record and Report Management 
 
1. Write narrative reports (e.g., incident reports, intelligence reports) providing complete, 
accurate and consistent information. 
 
2. Summarize in writing the statements of witnesses and complainants. 
 
3. Fill in forms requiring specific information accurately and completely. 
 
4. Record information required by Department guidelines in proper logs. 
 
5. Document incoming communications (e.g., requests for information, training) and 
communicate that information to other personnel as necessary. 
 
6. Maintain logs (written and/or computerized) of activities occurring during the shift 
(e.g., accidents, significant incidents) to maintain a record. 
 
G. Court 
 
1. Appear and testify as a witness in an official proceeding (e.g., traffic court, trial, Civil 
Service hearing) to assist in fulfilling the Department's role in the judicial and 
administrative process. 
 
2. Review search and arrest warrants prior to presentation to judge or prosecutor for 
signing. 
 
3. Review and discuss the details of a specific investigation with prosecutor to plan 
investigatory strategy, prepare for a court presentation, etc. 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 10 
 
4. Prepare search or arrest warrants. 
 
H. Community Relations 
 
1. Communicate with neighborhood youths to facilitate police-community relationships 
and deter criminal behavior. 
 
2. Participate in cooperative operations (e.g., Task Forces, executing warrants) to address 
community conditions and crime. 
 
3. Contact the immediate family of an individual (in person) or notify uniformed 
personnel to provide information to the family concerning that person's injury or death. 
 
4. Attend meetings (e.g., community meetings, concerned citizens) to discuss and 
exchange information, address problems, coordinate and develop plans of action, etc. 
 
5. Provide information upon request to individuals and groups (e.g., business people, 
neighborhood groups) to increase awareness of potential victimization and deter crime. 
 
6. Provide assistance and information to civilians seeking help (e.g., directions, 
explanations of municipal codes and ordinances, referrals to other Department 
personnel or other agencies/entities). 
 
7. Maintain current information about available social agencies and their roles for use in 
referring citizens seeking help. 
 
8. Discuss police actions with relatives of prisoners or complainants. 
 
I. Police Department Property Management 
 
1. Clean and inspect weapons. 
 
2. Conduct inventory of assigned vehicles and equipment to ensure that necessary 
equipment is available when needed. 
 
3. Recognize vehicle and/or equipment damage or malfunctions(s) and ensure that 
necessary repairs are performed. 
 
4. Maintain clothing and personal equipment to satisfy inspection requirements. 
 
5. Maintain personal copies of Departmental directives as required by Department policy. 
 
J. Supervision 
 
1. Attend or conduct roll call. 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 10 
 
2. Determine whether or not to terminate vehicle pursuits based on location of pursuit, 
weather, severity of crime, etc. 
 
3. Visit hospital to check on officers involved in shooting incidents. 
 
4. Ensure investigative activities (e.g., court affidavits, court-ordered surveillance, 
searches) are executed in compliance with legal requirements. 
 
5. Monitor radio traffic to keep informed of personnel activities and ensure proper 
assignment (e.g., need for backup, reassignment of officers). 
 
6. Monitor subordinates who have contact with seized property (e.g., narcotics). 
 
7. Attempt to resolve conflicts that arise between subordinates. 
 
8. Field check activities of subordinates to monitor performance and compliance with 
Department policies, procedures and applicable laws. 
 
K. Command 
 
1. Assume command at hostage/barricaded suspect situations pending arrival of 
command staff and specialized units.  
 
2. Establish staging area at serious incident scene for briefing of personnel, etc. pending 
arrival of the command staff and specialty units.  
 
3. Direct evacuations to ensure the safety of police personnel and the public. 
 
4. Recognize emergency situation and implement emergency mobilization plan.  
 
5. Monitor police activity by radio. 
 
6. Assume command at incident scene during routine situations, issue assignments, 
orders, and instructions to personnel to coordinate, direct, and assist them with their 
activities (e.g., rerouting traffic, securing crime scene, evidence collection). 
 
7. Attend briefings to discuss tactical plans and assignments when required. 
 
L. Internal/External Communications and Coordination  
 
1. Monitor police activity by radio. 
 
2. Notify dispatcher of special conditions that may affect or are affecting sector 
operations as required by Department procedures. 
 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 10 
 
3. Communicate with other Department personnel informally to discuss and exchange 
information (e.g., intelligence), address problems, etc.  
 
4. Monitor and respond to routine communications (e.g., phone).  
 
5. Consult with superior to provide/receive assistance with assigned operational 
activities and keep him/her apprised of potential developments/problems.  
 
6. Request documents in records systems (e.g., pictures, criminal histories, etc.). 
 
7. Notify other Police Department units of unusual situations and conditions as 
necessary and appropriate.  
 
8. Contact other police Departments and law enforcement agencies (e.g., FBI) for 
information and assistance. 
 
9. Communicate with individuals from other city/state/federal agencies/entities to 
exchange information and accomplish work objectives.  
 
10. Respond to requests for information from superior personnel.  
 
11. Answer investigative inquiries from other law enforcement agencies or refer inquiry 
appropriately.  
 
12. Contact outside agencies and organizations (e.g., social service agencies) for 
information. 
 
M. Research and Planning 
 
1. Read and review professional literature, technical journals, and newsletters to 
determine their application to Division operations and to keep abreast of current 
practices and developments. 
2. Make suggestions to improve the effectiveness or efficiency of Department units. 
 
N. Professional Development 
 
1. Participate in in-service training and recertification programs including firearms, 
policies, and practical/tactical exercises (e.g., defensive tactics) to receive information 
and develop skills.  
2. Read and keep up-to-date on federal, state, and local statutes/ordinances and court 
decisions to ensure appropriate enforcement and investigatory activities. 
3. Read internal reports and training materials to keep current on procedures and issues.  
4. Read and keep up-to-date on Departmental policies and procedures to ensure 
appropriate enforcement, investigatory, and administrative activities. 
5. Read outside literature (e.g., texts and journals) to keep current on law enforcement 
topics. 