===PAGE 1===
Docusign Envelope ID: 79E79F48-BF56-4A8F-826E-884093625AFC
Name of Bidder/Company
Signature of Corporate Officer
Date
SPECIMEN AGREEMENT
The following provision shall constitute an agreement between the Town of Lunenburg acting by and through its
School Committee. hereinafter referred to as "Town," and Dex Bus Scivice INC.
_, hereinafier referred
lo as "Contractor," effective as of the first day of July 1, 2025. In consideration of the mutual covenants
contained herein, the parties agree as follows:
Article I: SCOPE OF WORK:
The Contractor shall perform all work, furnish all equipment, labor, supplies, permits and materials necessary to
complete the following work described in this Agreement, the Invitation to Bid, and Specifications.
Article 2: TIME OF PERFORMANCE:
The Contractor shall commence work under this Contract on July 1, 2025, and shall complete the work outlined in
Article 1 above by June 30, 2028. At the sole discretion of the Lunenburg Public Schools an additional one (1)
year contract extension may be granted for the 2028/2029 school year and an additional one (1) year contract
extension may be granted for the 2029/2030 school year. If the Contract term exceeds one year continuation of
the Contract beyond the first year is subject to appropriation. If sufficient funds are not appropriated or othervise
available, the Town shall cancel the Contract pursuant to G.L. c.30B, $12(d).
Article 3: COMPENSATION:
The Town shall pay the Contractor for the performance of the work outlined in Article 1 in accordance with the
prices specified on the Contractor's Bid Form. Payment shall be made monthly over the course of the ten months
of the school year.
Article 4: CONTRACT DOCUMENTS:
The following documents form the Contract and all are as fully a part of the Contract as if attached to this
Agreement or repeated herein:
1.
The Agrecment
2.
Amendments, change orders, or other changes mutually agreed upon between the parties
3.
The INVITATION FOR BIDS FOR SCHOOL BUS TRANSPORTATION
4.
The Contractor's Response to the Invitation to Bid including a completed Bid Form.
In the event of conflicting provisions, those provisions most favorable to the Town shall govern.
Article 5; CONTRACT TERMINATION:
The Town may suspend or terminate this Contract by providing the Contractor with ten (10) days written notice
for reasons outlined as follows:
Failure of the Contractor, for any reason, to fulfill in a timely and proper manner its obligations under
this contract.
2.
3.
Violation of any of the provisions of this Contract by the Contractor.
A determination by the Town that the Contractor has engaged in fraud, waste, mismanagement, misuse of
funds, or criminal activity with any funds provided by this Contract.
Article 6: INDEMNIFICATION:
The Contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Town's officers, agents, and all employees from
and against claims arising directly or indirectly from the Contract. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for
Invitation for Bids: School Bus Transportation
Page 31
===PAGE 2===
Docusign Envelope ID: 79E79F48-BF56-4A8F-826E-884093625AFC
all local laxes
or contributions imposed or required under the Social Security, Workers' Compensation. and
income tax laws. Further, the Contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Town with respect to any
damages, expenses, or claims arising from or in connection with any of the work performed or to be performed
under this Contract. This shall not be construed as a limitation of the Contractor's liability under the Contract or
as otherwise provided by law.
Article 7: AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS:
The compensation provided by this Agreement is subject to the availability and appropriation of funds.
Article 8: APPLICABLA LAW:
The Contractor agrees to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and orders of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts
as well as ordinances or by-laws relating to the completion of this Contract. Such laws.
regulations, orders, ordinances or by-laws may include, but are not limited to non-discrimination laws; prevailing
wage laws; the protection of work, property, persons and employees. The Contractor shall procure and pay forall
permits, licenses, and approvals required to fulfill this Contract.
Article 9: ASSIGNMENT:
The Contractor shall not make any assignment of this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Town.
Article 10: AMENDMANTS:
All amendments. change orders or any changes to the provisions specified in this Contract can only occur when
mutually agreed upon by the Town and Contractor: Further, such amendments, change orders, or changes shall be
in writing and signed by officials with authority to bind the awarding authority. Additionally. all amendments,
change orders and changes shall be approved by the Town Accountant prior to execution by the authority of the
awarding authority. No amendment, change order. or change to the Contract shall be made until after the written
execution of the amendment, change order, or change to the Contract by both parties. All amendments. change
orders and changes to this Agreement shall be in accordance with M.G.L. c.30B. $13.
Article 11: INSURANCE:
The Contractor shall carry insurance as described in the Bid Specifications. The Contractor is required to furnish
a certificate of liability insurance naming the Town as an additional insured in the amount set forth in the Rid
Specifications.
Article 12: BONDS:
The Contractor is required to furnish performance and payment bonds in an amount equal to 100% of the contract
price. Said surety must be authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Article 13: NOTICES:
All notices hercunder shall be given to the Town and the Contractor at the following addresses and shall beby
first class mail or in hand delivery
To the Town:
Lunenburg School Committee
1025 Massachusetts Avenuc
I.unenburg, MA 01462
To the Contractor:
Dec Bus Service Inc
33 Great Rore
Copy to:
Town Manager
17 Main Street
Invitation for Bids: School Bus Transportation
Page 32
===PAGE 3===
Docusign Envelope ID: 79E79F48-BF56-4A8F-826E-884093625AFC
P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Pursuant to M.G.L. c62C$49A, I certify under the penalties of perjury that I have complied with the laws of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts relating to taxes.
043054564
Social Security Number or Federal Identification Number
DEL BUS SCENE IN
Signature of Individual or Corporate Name
By:
Corporate Officer (if applicable)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed on the day and year first
Town of Lunenburg, School Committee
Acting by and through the Director of
Administration and Finance
Contractor
DRE BUS SEAVE ANE
PRESIDENT LIM
Title
APisighedbyas to availability of Funds:
Ezequiel Ayala, Ir
5/23/2025
Invitation for Bids: School Bus Transportation
Page 33