===PAGE 1===
FIRST AMENDMENT TO SPECIMEN AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG
AND
DEE BUS SERVICE, INC.
WHEREAS, based upon certain undertakings and agreements on the part of Contractor and the
Town, and subject to the terms of this Amendment, the Parties do hereby agree to modify the
Agreement as set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, for valuable consideration, the reccipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged and for mutual promises and covenants set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:
1.
Bonds.
The requirement to furnish payment and performance bonds shall be amended to provide that the
Contractor shall furnish performance and payment bonds totaling 100% of the contract price for
one year, for the faithful performance of the Agreement in that year, at the start of each year of the
Agreement. The Contractor shall post the bond before July 1 of each year of the Agreement. The
company must be authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
licensed by the Massachusetts Division of Insurance and acceptable to the Town Counsel.
2.
Other Terms and Conditions of Agreement.
All other terms and conditions of the original Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force
and effect except as specifically modified herein.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the Parties have caused this Amendment to be executed by their
respective authorized officers) or agents) on the date set forth below.
THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG
SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Acting by and through the Director of
Administration and Finance
Auer Slam 5/5/25
Signature
CONTRACTOR
5/15/25
Date
By:
Signature
Print Name: Robert Dee
Print Title: President
===PAGE 2===
ADDITIONAL SERVICES
Any work which the Client wishes the Consultant to create which is not specified in the SERVICES Section
of this agreement will be considered an additional service. Such work shall require a separate Agreement
and payment separate from and above that specified in this Agreement.
CANCELLATION
In the event that services are postponed or cancelled at the request of the Client, Consultant shall have the
right to bill for work completed through the date of that request for all program years if a Form 471,
Description of Services Ordered and Certification Form, has been successfully submitted for those program
years, while reserving all rights under this Agreement. The billing rate will be 10% of the amount shown
on the Funding Commitment Decision Letter for each relevant program year. If additional payment is due,
this shall be payable within Thirty (30) days of the Client's notification to stop work or within Thirty (30)
days after receipt of the Funding Commitment Decision Letter. In the event of cancellation, the Client shall
assume responsibility for all collection of legal fees necessitated by default in payment.
CONFIDENTIALITY
Consultant and its representatives will protect the confidential status of any information provided by, from
or on behalf of the Client in the process of completing services for Client and will agree to any procedures
Client normally requires for such protection.
The undersigned agrees to the terms of this agreement on behalf of his or her organization. No responsibility
will be accepted for digital or photocopied signatures.
On behalf of the Client:
Juse the siened)
Susan Gilson (Please Print)
On behalf of the Consultant:
file ofel
Nichole O'Neal
12/3/24
_(Date)
finer and Finança
Lunenburg Public Schoal
11/27/2024
President