===PAGE 1===
Contract
between the
Lunenburg Education Association
And
The Lunenburg School Committee
July 1, 2024 June 30, 2027
===PAGE 2===
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
Article I
Article II
Article III
Article IV
Article V
PAGE NO.
Article VI
Article VII
Article VIII
Article IX
Article X
Article Xl
Article XII
Article XIII
Article XIV
Article XV
Article XVI
Article XVII
Article XVIII
Article XIX
Article XX
Article XXI
Article XXII
Article XXIII
Article XXIV
Article XXV
Appendix A
Appendix B
Appendix C
Appendix D
Preamble...
Grievance Procedure
Leave Policy ......
Conditions............
School Events For Parents During The
School Year .........
Class Size.....
Notification of Openings (Teaching Personnel) ....
Teacher Assignments
Non-Teaching Duties
Teaching Load .....
Group Insurance And Tax-Sheltered Annuities ....
Voluntary Termination of Employment.
Sick Leave Bank..
Sabbatical Leave/Professional Leave.
Joint Meetings .....
Payroll.
Criteria Governing Advancement Between Degree
Schedules and Professional Improvement.
Reduction in Force
Association Business...
Salaries
Course and Conference Reimbursement .....
Evaluation ..........
Department Head & Building Leadership Team
Management Rights.
Duration
Personal Leave Request.
Salary Schedules......
Evaluation...
Coaches and Stipends..
2
9
10
10
11
12
12
13
13
14
15
17
17
20
21
23
24
26
28
28
29
29
32
33
35
59
===PAGE 3===
ARTICLE I
PREAMBLE
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 1781 of Chapter 149 and as amended by
Chapter 763, Acts of 1965 of the General Laws of Massachusetts and Chapter 150E, Acts
of 1973 of the General Laws, the SCHOOL COMMITTEE of the school system of
LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the
COMMITTEE), and the LUNENBURG EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
sometimes referred to as the ASSOCIATION), hereby agree to a new three-year contract
to be in effect from July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027
A. Recognizing that our prime purpose is to provide education of the highest possible
quality for the children of Lunenburg, and that good morale within the teaching staff
of Lunenburg is essential to achievement of that purpose, we, the undersigned
parties to this Contract, declare that:
1. Under the laws of Massachusetts, the COMMITTEE, elected by the citizens of
Lunenburg, has final responsibility for establishing the educational policies of
the public schools of Lunenburg
2. The Superintendent of Schools of Lunenburg (hereinafter referred to as the
SUPERINTENDENT) has responsibility for carrying out the policies so
established.
3. The teaching staff of the Public Schools of Lunenburg has the responsibility for
providing for the schools education of the highest possible quality.
4. Fulfillment of these respective responsibilities can be facilitated and supported
by consultations and free exchange of views and information between the
COMMITTEE and the SUPERINTENDENT, and the teaching staff in the
formulation and application of policies relating to wages, hours, and other
conditions of employment for the teaching staff; and so,
5. To give effect to these declarations, the following principles and procedures are
hereby adopted.
SCOPE
B.
For the purposes of collective bargaining pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 150E, the
Lunenburg School Committee (the "Committee") recognizes the Lunenburg
Education Association (the "Association") as the exclusive collective bargaining
representative of professional employees including the positions of: teacher,
guidance counselor, school psychologist, occupational therapist, speech and
1
===PAGE 4===
language pathologist, Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) and nurse, but
excluding all administrators, members of other bargaining units, night school
personnel, principals, substitutes, confidential, casual, managerial employees, and
all other employees of the Lunenburg Public Schools.
This Agreement shall be interpreted so as to be gender neutral in its application.
Wherever the masculine gender is used, it shall also include the feminine, and
wherever the feminine is used, it shall include the masculine.
ARTICLE I
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The purpose of this Article is to provide an orderly method for the settlement of
grievances, which are disputes between the parties over a claimed violation of a
specific provision of this Agreement. Grievances must be processed in accordance
with the following steps, time limits, and conditions set forth in this article.
Grievances should be treated confidentially to the extent appropriate under the
B. Grievances concerning suspensions may be brought under the procedure set forth in
this Article. However, should an employee elect to pursue any statutory arbitration
remedy, including arbitration pursuant to M.G.L.c.71, §42D, such arbitration shall
be the exclusive remedy for the discipline at issue.
C. All grievances filed at Steps 1 and 2 of the grievance procedure must be sufficiently
specific to enable the District to understand the contractual basis of the grievance,
the facts supporting it, the date of the occurrence(s), and the remedy sought.
D. All days shall refer to calendar days unless otherwise specified. School days are
days on which school is in session. Business days are calendar days that are not
weekends or state holidays.
E. The Steps of the Grievance procedure shall be as follows:
INFORMAL STEP:
Employees may attempt to resolve their concerns informally with their immediate
supervisors before invoking the formal grievance procedure. However, pursuit of
an informal resolution will not extend any of the timelines set forth in the formal
procedure.
STEP 1:
The employee or the association shall submit the grievance in writing to the
Principal within 15 business days of the date that the employee or the Association
knew or, reasonably should have known of the occurrence giving rise to the
2
===PAGE 5===
grievance. The Principal and the Association shall meet within 5 business days of
when the grievance was presented. The Principal shall respond in writing within 5
business days of the hearing.
STEP 2:
If the grievance is not resolved in Step 1, the Association may appeal it by giving a
written notice of such appeal to the Superintendent of Schools within 10 business
days after the answer of the Principal is due. The Superintendent and the
Association shall meet within 5 business days to discuss the grievance. The
Superintendent shall respond in writing within 5 business days of the hearing.
STEP 3:
If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, the Association may request a hearing
before the School Committee, by submitting a written request, which may include a
written summary of the basis of the grievance, to the Superintendent within 10
business days of the date the Step 2 response is due. The Superintendent will
present the request to the School Committee in executive session at the next
available meeting and shall communicate the School Committee's decision to the
Association in writing within 5 business days of the decision.
If the decision is a
denial of the request, then the Superintendent's written notification of the denial to
the Association shall serve as the District's Step 3 response for the purposes of this
Article. The School Committee shall decline to hear personnel matters when it
determines that the subject matter of the grievance falls outside of the Committee's
jurisdiction. The School Committee shall notify the Association in writing of a
decision not to hear the grievance. Should the School Committee agree to hear the
grievance, the hearing will be held at or before the next available meeting after the
meeting at which decision to hear the grievance is made. If the School Committee
elects to have a subcommittee hear the grievance, then the hearing shall be
scheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the parties. Thereafter, the Committee's
written Step 3 response shall be due within 30 business days after the hearing.
STEP 4: Arbitration
1. If the dispute or grievance is not settled in the foregoing steps and it involves
the claimed violation of an arbitrable provision of this Agreement, then the
Association may seek arbitration by filing a written demand for arbitration with
the American Arbitration Association.
The demand shall be filed with the
American Arbitration Association within 15 business days of the District's
answer in Step 2, unless Step 3 review has been requested, in which case, the
demand must be filed within 15 business days of the District's answer in Step 3.
2. The arbitration proceeding will be conducted under the rules of the American
Arbitration Association. The hearing locale shall be Lunenburg, MA, unless
otherwise agreed by the parties. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to
add to, subtract from, modify, change or alter any of the provisions of this
Agreement. The award shall be final and binding on the School District, the
3
===PAGE 6===
Association, and the grievant. The decision of the arbitrator shall not violate
any statutes of the Commonwealth, or regulations pursuant to such statutes.
3. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding and may be reviewed in
court under G.L. c.150C, or on the grounds that the award: (1) is arbitrary or
capricious, or (2) misinterprets or misapplies any provision of the law. The
dispute, as stated in the request for arbitration, shall constitute the sole and
entire subject matter to be heard by the arbitrator, unless the parties agree in
writing to modify the scope of the hearing. A dispute that was not raised in the
grievance may not be raised in arbitration. The arbitrator may not hear evidence
or argument with respect to matters that are not arbitral under this agreement.
F. The parties agree to follow each of the foregoing
steps in the processing of
grievances; and if at any step the District fails to give its written answer within the
time limit therein set forth, the grievance shall be deemed to be denied, and the
Association may appeal the grievance to the next step at the expiration of such time
limit. Failure of the Association at any step to process according to the time limits
set forth herein shall mean that the Association has waived the grievance, and the
right to proceed further.
G. The Association may file a grievance affecting employees in two or more school
buildings at Step 2, provided that it meets the time lines specified in Step 1.
ARTICLE I
LEAVE POLICY
A.
SICK LEAVE:
1. For personal illness of the teacher, or a member of the teacher's immediate
family which necessitates the teacher's absence from school, each teacher shall
be entitled to earn twelve (12) sick leave days per year. Unused sick leave days
can be accumulated to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) days.
2. The superintendent, at their discretion, may require certification by a physician
after five (5) consecutive days of sick leave.
3. For purposes of this section "immediate family" is to be construed as spouse
and children, spouse's children, mother, father, grandparent, grandchild, sister,
brother, parent-in-law, or any other person who resides within the same
4. Accumulation of sick leave will start with the beginning of the most recent
period of continuous full-time employment at Lunenburg.
B. DEATH IN THE FAMILY:
1. In the event of the death of a spouse or child, ten (10) bereavement days will be
granted. (Revised 24-27)
4
===PAGE 7===
2. For death in the immediate family of the teacher, an absence up to five (5)
calendar days will be granted without loss of pay or other leave benefits.
3. The immediate family is to be construed as spouse and children, mother, father,
grandparent, grandchild, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law or any
other person who lives within the same household.
4. In the event of death of other close relatives, one (1) day will be granted.
5. In the event of the death of other close relative, two (2) additional days may
be granted by the Superintendent if travel in excess of 120 miles is
required. (Revised 24-27)
C. TEMPORARY LEAVES-OF-ABSENCE:
1. Each employee is entitled to a maximum of three (3) personal days per year for
the purpose of attending to personal or family business, which cannot be
conducted outside of school hours. Requests for personal days must be made
in writing to the principal at least 48 hours before the day of the proposed
absence.
The form on which requests for personal days are to be made is
attached hereto and incorporated herein as if set forth in full as Appendix A to
this Agreement.
2. Personal days will not be granted generally during the first five (5) days of the
school year, during the last five (5) days of the school year, or immediately
preceding or following school vacation periods or holidays (these are
"blackout" or restricted days).
3. Unrestricted Personal Day, Employees who have a minimum of twenty (20)
years of service in Lunenburg as of June 30 shall be entitled to use of one (1) of
their personal days on the "blackout"/restricted days during the following
school year, excluding orientation day and the first and last day for students.
Proper notification must be sent to the building Administration before
September 30. No more than one educator can take a restricted day per
building; if necessary, approval will be based on seniority. Requests for days
off submitted after September 30 will be allowed if no one else has put in for
the requested day. Requests received after September 30 will be handled on a
first come first serve basis.
4. If the employee wishes to use a personal day for personal illness or illness in
the immediate family or emergency, the requirements for 48 hours' notice will
be waived.
5. Unused personal days at the end of the school year shall be added to sick leave,
subject to the maximum accrual set forth in Article Ill, Section A.
D.
JURY DUTY:
Employees will be granted leave to attend jury duty in accordance with applicable
law.
E.
MILITARY LEAVE:
Employees will be granted military leave in accordance with applicable state and
federal laws.
5
===PAGE 8===
F. Statutory Leaves (FMLA, MPLA, and SNLA)
1. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any unit member may
exercise his or her rights to take Family and Medical Leave or Military Family
Leave pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ("FMLA"), if he or
she has worked 1250 hours in the last twelve (12) months, in accordance with the
FMLA. Likewise, employees may exercise their rights to take Small Necessities
Leave pursuant to the Massachusetts Small Necessities Leave Act ("SNLA"), or
parental leave pursuant to the Massachusetts Parental Leave Act ("MPLA").
2. The FMLA is a federal law that provides for up to twelve (12) weeks of unpaid
leave each year for the birth, adoption or placement of a child; the serious health
condition of the employee or an immediate family member; or to attend to certain
qualifying exigencies connected with having a family member deployed to active
military service. In addition, the FMLA allows up to twenty-six (26) weeks of
leave in a single twelve (12) month period to care for covered military service
members who becomes ill or injured in the line of duty while on active duty in the
military.
3. The SNLA is a state law that provides up to twenty-four (24) hours per year of
unpaid leave to attend to certain responsibilities regarding the educational
advancement of the employee's child, accompanying an employee's child to routine
medical or dental appointments, or accompanying an elderly relative of the
employee to routine medical or dental appointments, or appointments for other
professional services related to the elder's care, such as interviewing at nursing or
group homes.
4. The MPLA provides an employee who has been employed for 3 months as a
full-time employee with 8 weeks of unpaid (except as provided below) parental
leave for giving birth or for the placement or adoption of a child as further defined
in the statute. If the employee provides two-weeks' notice of their intent to return
and returns at or before the expiration of 8-weeks, their right to return to the same
or similar position is protected, as further detailed in the statute.
5. Although the statutory leaves are unpaid, employees with available qualifying paid
leave benefits will receive paid leave. Qualifying paid leave means leave that
would be available for use for the purpose for which it is being taken in the absence
of the statute. For example, a leave taken in connection with the employee's own
illness (including medically documented disability resulting from childbirth),
qualities for the use of sick leave, while leave to care for another sick person
qualifies for sick leave only to the extent that sick leave for family illness is
available. Parental leave that is not taken in connection with any disability of the
teacher would not generally be eligible for sick leave, except as detailed in the
following section. If an employee qualifies for FMLA, MPLA or SNA leave, the
District has the right to designate applicable paid leave as FMLA, MPLA OF SLA
leave. Leave entitlement will be calculated on a rolling 12-month basis. The
===PAGE 9===
District shall have the right to establish rules and regulations concerning the use of
Family and Medical Leave and Small Necessities Leave that are consistent with
those laws and do not conflict with specific provisions of this Agreement. Leaves
under the FMLA and MPLA will run concurrently. If both parents work for the
District, they are together entitled to the FMLA/MPLA statutory leave amount in
the aggregate.
G. Availability of Pay for Statutory Leaves and Availability of Additional Unpaid
Leave (Revised 24-27)
The statutes referenced above provide for unpaid leave in the amounts indicated in
the sections above and in the laws and regulations referenced. The statutes provide
that the question of whether leave will be paid is governed by the policies of the
employer. In this case, the policies of the employer pertaining to paid leave are
embodied in this Agreement. This section clarifies and sets forth the situations and
amounts of paid leave available to be used concurrently with the statutory leaves
described above.
1. Childbirth and Pregnancy Related Leave. In addition to applicable state and
federal law, parental leave (birth, non-birth, and adoption) employees shall be
granted twenty (20) days of paid leave. Employees may supplement these
twenty (20) days with forty (40) days of accrued (sick, personal) time. (Added
24-27)
2. a. Employees seeking parental leave shall provide written notification to the
school district within sixty (60) calendar days before the start of the leave.
Employees may take a year leave of absence at their discretion. That year shall
include the twenty (20) days of paid leave, and may be supplemented with up to
forty (40) days of accrued leave. All other time shall be unpaid. Any employee
availing themselves of this benefit must pay the employee portion of the health
insurance premium.
b. For employees electing to take a year leave, the leave shall occur in the
semester in which the child arrives plus the following semester. For members
electing to take a year leave and whose arrives in June, July or August, leave
shall occur the next fall and spring semesters. (Added 24-27)
4 Family Sick Leave. Employees who access FMLA or SNA qualifying leave in
connection with the illness of a family member may access paid leave only as set
forth here.
a. Employees may access paid personal leave, if available, for SNA leave.
b. For FMLA leave taken for the illness of a family member (approved in
accordance with the District's FMLA policy and procedures, employees
may access their own accrued unused sick leave in order to be paid for part
of the leave. (Revised 24-27)
7
===PAGE 10===
c. In all cases under this provision the source of leave shall be limited to the
employee's own accrued unused sick leave, not sick leave bank or any
other source of leave.
d. In all cases under this provision the source of leave shall be limited to the
employee's own accrued unused sick leave, not sick leave bank or any
other source of leave.
ARTICLE IV
CONDITIONS
A. THE CONTRACT YEAR:
The teachers' contract covers the period starting as close to September Ist as
administratively and educationally feasible, but not later than the day after Labor
Day, and continues for one hundred eighty-two (182) working days with a one
hundred eighty-third day only as necessary as determined by the Superintendent
with suggestions provided by the L.E.A. This contract may not be invoked for
more than one hundred eighty three 183 working days. (This is based on one
hundred eighty (180) days of children being in school).
Annual teachers' salaries earned in the ten month period will be spread over a
twelve-month period extending from September 1 through August 31st. A teacher
employed during the year may be paid on a ten-month or twelve-month basis upon
mutual agreement with the Superintendent of Schools; otherwise, salaries will be
paid on a twelve-month basis.
* An exception to this article would be first year teachers whose
contract year is one hundred eighty-four (184) working days.
B. LENGTH OF SCHOOL DAY:
A teacher's day (the "work day") will begin at least fifteen (15) minutes before the
start time for students. At the end of the students' school day (the "school
day"),and upon completion of all professional responsibilities (which may include
but are not limited to: before and after school help for students, parent meetings,
faculty meetings, professional development, programs, grade level meetings and
subject meetings, etc.), teachers may leave at their discretion. With advance notice
to teachers of at least twenty-four (24) hours, school principals may periodically
rearrange the before school and after school requirements to accommodate before-
school and/or after school faculty grade level, and subject area meetings and
planning sessions. Attendance at normal faculty, mandatory professional
development, and teacher orientation meetings will not be required in excess of
forty (40) minutes beyond the normal work day, and shall not exceed an average of
8
===PAGE 11===
four (4) meetings per month unless mutually agreed upon by the administration and
faculty.
C. OPENING AND CLOSING TIMES OF SCHOOL DAY:
Opening and closing times of schools will be determined by the administration. The
school day shall not exceed seven (7) hours and five (5) minutes.
D. COMPENSATION AND OTHER CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT:
Subject to the provisions of this Contract, the wages, hours, and other conditions of
employment applicable on the effective day of the Contract shall continue to be
applicable.
E. SCHOOL CALENDAR:
1. In the interest of facilitating a more flexible School Calendar, efforts will be
made by the School Committee to start the school year as close to September
1st as administratively and educationally feasible.
2. That the Lunenburg Education Association be consulted on changes in the
Calendar but respecting the right of the School Committee to alter it, when
emergencies arise.
F. CLASSROOM PERIODS:
In the practice of good school administration, the school administrator will consult
with faculty members affected before the number of scheduled periods or length of
classroom periods within the normal school day are altered.
G. STAFF DEVELOPMENT DAYS:
The School Committee will schedule five (5) staff development days per year.
The meetings will be scheduled between 7:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. with consideration
for after school activity schedules customary to the building and grade level.
The administration and the faculty will plan the agenda cooperatively.
ARTICLE V
SCHOOL EVENTS FOR PARENTS DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR
The parties agree the interests of Lunenburg parents, teachers, and students will be best
served by providing opportunities for school events for parents during the school year.
A. PARENT-TEACHER CONFERENCES:
1. Principals may schedule parent-teacher conferences in a way that, in their
9
===PAGE 12===
judgment, best meets the needs of teachers, students, and parents.
Conferences may be scheduled through a combination of early release time,
and meeting time in the evening for a total of six hours.
2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, conferences will continue to be scheduled
when necessary in individual cases when agreed upon by the parent and
teacher, or required by the administration, based on a parent, teacher or
administrator request. Such conferences will be held at mutually agreeable
times.
B. OTHER SCHOOL EVENTS FOR PARENTS:
In addition to the above, the Principal may schedule one additional evening
meeting for the purpose of a parent open house. Meetings for this purpose will not
exceed two hours or extend beyond 9 p.m. unless extended at the discretion of the
individual teachers.
ARTICLE VI
CLASS SIZE
The Committee and the Association recognize that Class Size is an important factor in
ood education, and the Committee will, subject to space availability and all othe
ducational considerations, ensure that class size is conducive to an effectiv
aching/learning atmosphere. Special attention will be given to such areas as: bas
oups. shop classes, and laboratory sections. However, the final decision on class siz
rests with the Committee.
ARTICLE VII
NOTIFICATION OF OPENINGS (Teaching Personnel)
When there are vacancies within the District (defined as positions that the District
posites a nil, identin posious tie fired an poet, se pond positions, new
B. Posting may be accomplished by posting the information in the central office, and
in at least one location in each building and by sending an e-mail to all affected
staff on their district e-mail accounts.
Notices of vacancies will be posted for 7 calendar days, prior to the position being
filled. If it is necessary to make a decision sooner than the posting period will
allow, then the Superintendent may seek a waiver of the 7 days from the
Association President.
D. The NOTICE OF OPENING will include:
1. A brief job description including the scope of the work and the salary
provisions.
10
===PAGE 13===
2. Date the work is to begin.
3. Any other information deemed pertinent to a given position.
4. Deadline date for receipt of applications.
E.
Notification over the summer shall be accomplished by e-mail as described above.
If a vacancy occurs after August 15, then notice to employees shall be by e-mail or
by an internet website advertisement.
F. Candidate interviews shall be conducted for the following stipended positions:
dean of students, building leadership team, department head, nursing coordinator,
curriculum coordinators, and mentor coordinator.
ARTICLE VIII
TEACHER ASSIGNMENTS
A. Teachers (other than newly appointed teachers) will be notified in writing of their
programs for the coming school year, including the schools to which they will be
assigned, the grades and/or subjects that they will teach, and any special or unusual
classes that they will have, as soon as practicable and under normal circumstances
not later than August 1st
!. Wherever practicable, teachers will be given verbal
tentative notice of such assignments by the close of the school year. If changes are
made in teachers' programs after notification, they will be notified in writing as
soon as possible, or no less than 2 weeks prior to implementation.
In order to assure that pupils are taught by teachers working within their areas of
competence, teachers will not normally be assigned, except temporarily or for good
cause, outside the scope of their teaching certificates and/or their major or minor
fields of study.
Changes in grade assignment in the elementary schools and in subject assignment
in the secondary schools will normally be voluntary. When involuntary transfers
are necessary, a teacher's area of competence, major and/or minor field of study,
quality of teaching performance, and length of service in the Lunenburg School
System will be considered in determining which teacher is to be transferred.
Teachers being involuntarily transferred will be transferred to comparable positions
as far as is reasonably possible. The reassignment and utilization of teachers within
a school building by the principal will not be considered a transfer. Teachers
reassigned will be provided with at least 2 weeks notice, and an opportunity to meet
with the principal if they so request.
D. An involuntary transfer will be made by written notice to the affected teacher,
stating the reasons for the transfer. The teacher shall be given an opportunity to
meet with the Superintendent. In the event a teacher objects to the transfer, upon
written request of the teacher, the Association will be notified in writing as to the
specific reasons for the transfer and the Superintendent will meet with the
Association representatives and the teacher involved to discuss the transfer.
11
===PAGE 14===
E.
In arranging schedules for teachers who are assigned to more than one school, an
effort will be made to limit the amount of inter-school travel. As such, teachers will
be notified of any changes in their schedules as soon as practicable. Teachers will
be reimbursed, upon request, at the IRS rate for mileage between buildings when
required to travel to more than one building during the school day due to their
assignments. Teachers assigned to positions requiring daily travel between schools
will be reimbursed $250 based upon the mileage traveled between the buildings.
Payment will be made at the end of the fiscal year in lieu of individual payments for
mileage.
F.
Notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary, the final decision on all
assignments and transfers rests with the Superintendent of Schools.
Teacher assignments will be made without regard to race, creed, color, religion,
nationality, sex, sexual orientation, disability, age or marital status.
ARTICLE IX
NON-TEACHING DUTIES
The Committee and the Association acknowledge that a teacher's primary responsibility
is to teach and that his energies should, to the extent reasonably practicable, be utilized to
this end. The Committee has no present intention to make any substantial increase in the
non-teaching duties that would affect a wide segment of teachers, and should
circumstances change, would do so only after negotiation with the Association. On the
other hand, the Committee recognizes that it may be desirable to relieve teachers of other
non-teaching duties than now provided for in each building and, accordingly, will study
additional methods and means designed to provide that in each building more of the
teacher's time may be devoted to activities of direct benetit to students. Issues arising
with respect to interpretation or application of the above, while they may be "grievances"
under this Agreement, shall not be arbitrable. Building leadership, administrators and
LEA building representatives, will work together to create a mutually agreeable duty
schedule. Non-teaching duties shall include: morning and afternoon bus, arrival and
dismissal (classroom and hall), drop-off and dismissal, recess, lunch, study hall and
advisory/homeroom. (Revised 24-27)
ARTICLE X
TEACHING LOAD
A. All teachers shall have a duty-free lunch period. All teachers will have at least a 20
minute lunch period.
B. All classroom teachers and special service teachers shall have a duty-free
preparation period each full work day. Intended largely for preparation, these
12
===PAGE 15===
periods shall be equal in time length to that of instructional periods in the workday
provided each building. Academic subject area middle school and senior high
school teachers (grades 6-12), will not normally be assigned more than five (5)
instructional periods per work day and one (1) period some other duty. Modified
block scheduling may be utilized at the high school, which will result in teachers
teaching an extended period once every day.
While exceptions to the above may be made on either a temporary or regular basis,
it is agreed that any such exception shall be rare.
C. Classroom teachers in grades K-5 will be entitled to no less than one 40-minute
preparation period per day. Pre-School teachers will be provided preparation time
between the morning and afternoon sessions, and after the afternoon session for no
less than 30 minutes each.
D. Special area teachers shall not normally be required to teach outside their area of
specialization (i.e., music, art, physical education, industrial arts, and home
economics).
ARTICLE XI
GROUP INSURANCE AND TAX-SHELTERED ANNUITIES
A. All teachers covered by this Contract shall be eligible to participate in the present
Group Insurance Plan in accordance with the provisions of said Plan in force and
effect for employees of the Town of Lunenburg or in any comparable plan
subsequently established to cover solely employees of the Town of Lunenburg. The
Committee and the Association will each designate two (2) persons to represent
them on a study committee to report on the issue of "jointly managed trusts" as a
vehicle for providing health insurance coverage to members of this bargaining unit.
The report of this committee is not binding on either party, and the issue may be
raised by either party in subsequent contract negotiations.
B. Teachers shall be eligible to participate in a Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plan or a Tax-
Sheltered Mutual Plan established pursuant to appropriate federal, state and local
laws, by December 1st of each school year.
ARTICLE XII
VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Voluntary termination of employment from the Lunenburg School System will be by a
written notice of at least thirty (30) days, except in the month of August and September,
when a sixty (60) day notice is required.
13
===PAGE 16===
ARTICLE XII
SICK LEAVE BANK
A. A Sick Leave Bank will be established for use by qualified members whose sick
leave accumulation is exhausted through prolonged illness and who require
additional leave to recover from an extended illness.
B. Each member of the bargaining unit, school administrators, superintendent of
schools, assistants, upon the accumulation of twenty (20) sick days at the start of a
school year, become eligible for membership in the Sick Leave Bank. Membership
in the bank is mandatory and upon accrual of required days, members will
automatically contribute two (2) sick days initially and one (1) sick day each
succeeding year until each member has contributed five (5) days. Members will be
able to request to draw from the bank upon completion of the first contribution of
two (2) days. (Revised 24-27)
In the event that the accumulation of bank days falls below three hundred fifty (350)
days, members shall contribute additional days as deemed necessary by the Sick
Leave Bank Committee.
C. Any Sick Leave Bank days shall be carried over to successive years.
D. The Sick Leave Bank shall be administered by a Sick Leave Bank Committee
consisting of two (2) School Committee Designees and two (2) members of the Sick
Leave Bank designated by the teachers' association. The Superintendent will serve
as an ex-officio (non-voting) member of the committee.
E. Application for benefits shall be made in writing to the Sick Leave Bank Committee
prior to the point at which the employee's sick leave is exhausted as herein before
provided, and shall be accompanied by a doctor's certificate as to the need for and
anticipated extent of extended recovery time from the illness.
F. A prolonged illness will be construed to be one, which causes the employee to be
absent from work twenty (20) consecutive school days. Recurrence of an illness
must be diagnosed by the doctor as being related and/or a continuation of the
original illness. Under this provision, the twenty (20) prolonged illness days may
be waived.
If a member's sick days are exhausted because of a prolonged illness, any additional
days needed for other illnesses will be considered on an individual basis provided a
doctor has certified the need for such days.
H. The initial grant of sick leave by the Sick Leave Bank Committee to an eligible
employee shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
Additional entitlement may be extended by the Sick Leave Bank Committee upon
demonstration of need by the applicant.
14
===PAGE 17===
J. Subject to the foregoing requirements, the Sick Leave Bank Committee will
determine the eligibility for the use of the Bank and the amount of leave to be
granted. The following general criteria shall be considered by the Committee in
administering the Bank and in determining the amount of leave:
1. Medical evidence of serious extended illness.
2. Prior utilization of eligible sick leave.
3. Longevity.
The decision of the Sick Leave Bank Committee with respect to eligibility and
entitlement shall be final and binding and not subject to appeal.
K. Upon return from extended sick leave during which benefits were received through
the Sick Leave Bank, the recipient shall be entitled to commence a new
accumulation of individual sick leave in accordance with the provisions of the
collective bargaining agreement on the same basis as other teachers.
ARTICLE XIV
SABBATICAL LEAVE/ PROFESSIONAL LEAVE
A. Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools, a Sabbatical Leave for
a full or one-half school year may be granted by the School Committee for:
1. Advanced study at an approved college or university; or
2. For independent research to teachers who have completed seven (7)
consecutive years of service in the Lunenburg School System, where such
experience would, in the opinion of the Committee, increase the teacher's
professional ability.
B. Personnel requesting such leave must submit their applications, in writing, to the
Superintendent of Schools not later than January 15th of the school year preceding
the school year for which the leave is requested. Applications for sabbaticals must
indicate the scope and area of the study of independent research to be undertaken as
well as specifically indicating how such leave will benefit the Lunenburg School
System. Action shall be taken on all such requests as soon as possible and not later
than April 15th. A second or third such leave shall not be authorized until a teacher
shall have re-established eligibility by serving another period of seven (7) years.
C.
No more than two (2) teachers involved with half year leaves or one teacher
involved with a full year leave from the total school system will be absent on
sabbatical leave during any one school year. No more than one teacher shall be
absent at any one time.
D. Successful applicants will receive one-half (1/2) of the salary to which they would
have been entitled provided that that amount when coupled with any scholarship,
grant, or aid, shall not exceed the regular salary to which they would have been
15
===PAGE 18===
entitled.
E. Before accepting such sabbatical leave, the teacher shall enter into a written
agreement to return to active service in the Lunenburg School Department for a
period of at least twice the length of such leave. A teacher who does not fulfill this
agreement shall have agreed in writing to pay the Town the amount of salary
received for the sabbatical provided that the teacher may be released from such
payment if his failure to serve twice the length of the leave is due to disability, death
or if he is discharged from his position by the School Committee.
F. A teacher returning from sabbatical leave shall be placed on the step of the salary
schedule he would have attained had he remained in the school system. He shall
not be entitled to sick leave or other benefits while on leave.
G. A progress report should be submitted to the Superintendent by the recipient at the
midpoint of the leave. Upon completion of the leave, the recipient shall submit a
written report to the Superintendent containing transcripts of all college and
university work done while on leave, together with any other pertinent or
interpretive materials considered essential to an evaluation of his program.
H. Recipients shall not engage in remunerative work unless approved in writing by the
Superintendent while on leave except when scholarships and fellowships in
approved colleges and universities which do not interfere with the prescribed
program of professional improvements are allowed.
I.
In the case where there are several applications for the sabbatical leave, the
Superintendent may appoint an evaluation committee, which would screen the
applicants and report its findings to him.
The recommendation of the
Superintendent shall be made on the basis of the value of the proposed leave to the
educational system of Lunenburg.
J.
(Professional Leave) - Upon the application of a member of the bargaining unit and
the recommendation by the Superintendent, the School Committee or its designee
may grant to such member of the bargaining unit, leave without pay for such term,
upon such condition and for such purpose as the School Committee or its designee
shall determine. The purpose for which a member of the bargaining unit shall
submit his application for such unpaid leave may include, but shall not be limited
to:
1. Advanced study;
2. Participation in an exchange-teaching program in another state, territory or
country;
3. Participation in a cultural program related to his professional
responsibilities;
4. Participation in a public office to which he has been elected or appointed;
5. Participation as MTA/NEA elected or appointed office and for such other
purposes as may be allowed under the laws of the Commonwealth;
16
===PAGE 19===
6. Career exploration.
Any request for leave pursuant to paragraphs 2 and/or 3 above must be submitted on
or before March 1st of the school year preceding the year in which the leave is to be
taken. Requests for leave for advanced study must be submitted on or before April
1st of the school year preceding the year in which the leave is to be taken.
Any member of the bargaining unit granted an unpaid leave-of-absence shall retain
those benefits accrued prior to the period of his leave which are permitted by statute
and the policies of the School Committee; provided, however, that the period of any
such leave shall not be included in the computation of seniority of any member of
the bargaining unit, nor shall the taking of any such leave be deemed to affect any
prior-accrued seniority.
Any request for leave pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and/or 3 above must be submitted
at least one year in advance of the effective date.
ARTICLE XV
JOINT MEETINGS
The Lunenburg Education Association Executive Board and the Superintendent will meet
monthly to discuss educational issues.
ARTICLE XVI
PAYROLL
A. PAYROLL REGULATIONS:
The Association and the Superintendent will consult annually prior to the
close of school to establish the pay dates for the upcoming school year.
The first full paycheck will be paid on the first Friday after the start of
school on which the Town issues a payroll.
In the event that a scheduled pay date falls on a holiday, or during a
vacation period, the check will be mailed the Thursday preceding to the
teacher's home.
4.
The Superintendent of School shall have the right to determine the salary
schedule placement for newly hired employees without reference to actual
experience, subject to the agreement of said employee, as a part of the
hiring process. Full credit shall be given for degree status at the time of
Thereafter, such employee shall move through the steps based on
experience, course work, and/or degree earned during their employment in
the Lunenburg Public Schools as provided in this contract.
Step Increases, In order to advance to the next step on the salary scale,
17
===PAGE 20===
employees must work or be in a paid status for at least 90 school days in a
school year. Days used from the sick leave bank will not be applied
toward the calculation of the 90 paid school days.
5.
In order to receive salary credit for degrees and/or course work, written
notice must be given to the Superintendent of Schools no later than
November 15 of the school year prior to the school year in which salary
credit for such degrees or course work is to be effective. Except as
described below, all necessary transcripts or evidence of degree
obtainment and/or completed course work must be received by the Office
of the Superintendent no later than the end of the workday on June 15 to
be eligible for a change of salary schedule placement for the start of the
next school year.
Individuals enrolled in a Summer 1 class who need to complete that Class
to be eligible for a change in Salary schedule placement must submit
initial paperwork by June 15 but may request an extension to submit their
transcripts and evidence of degree obtainment up until July 15. It is
understood and agreed, however, that by taking advantage of this
extension the School Committee cannot guarantee that the lane change
will be in effect for the start of the next school year. Changes will be
processed as quickly as possible, and retro will be provided if necessary.
No changes of salary schedule placement will be made unless proper
notice has been given and all supporting documentation has been received
as set forth above.
The employer may establish stipends for work to be performed outside of
the contractual work year on a voluntary basis. The establishment of such
stipends and/or the employment of persons to perform such work shall not
be subject to collective bargaining and/or the grievance or arbitration
provisions of this contract except as to an allegation that an employee was
involuntarily required to perform such work.
B. SUMMER PAYROLL:
Teachers leaving the employ of the school system will receive their
accumulated summer pay in a lump sum on or before June 30th.
Teachers remaining in the school system may receive their accumulated
summer pay in a lump sum if they have so requested, in writing, to the
Payroll and Benefits person by June 1st of each year. This also will be
paid on or before June 30th.
SALARY PRORATION:
Salaries for teachers entering or leaving the school system during the
18
===PAGE 21===
school year will be figured at a daily rate of 1/183rd of the total annual
In the event that more than 185 days of school attendance for
papils are mandated by the State and more than 173 (184 days for first
year teachers) working days are required of the teachers, additional salary
will be paid on a proration of the annual salary at 1/183rd per diem.
Deductions for days of absence over the allotted sick leave are made in
accordance with the above procedure. Such deductions are adjusted in the
July payroll period or upon termination of service during the school year.
3.
All extra-curricular and co-curricular activities, established by the
administration and approved by the School Committee shall be
compensated pursuant to the after school activities schedule attached to
and incorporated in this Agreement. Said compensation shall be treated in
all respects as regular compensation, including, but not limited to being
subject to deductions required by the Massachusetts Teachers Retirement
System.
The administration, in its posting of such positions, shall set forth the
maximum number of hours to be worked for each such position.
4.
Curriculum Development will be paid at a rate determined between the
teacher and the Superintendent but not less than the pro-rated amount
based on the current Bachelor minimum salary.
D. PAYROLL WITHHOLDINGS:
1.
By law, deductions must be withheld for both federal and state income
taxes.
2.
By law, deductions of 5% for service prior to January 1, 1975; 7% for
service effective January 1, 1975; 8% for service effective January 1,
1984; and 11% for service effective September 2001 must be withheld
from salary for teachers' retirement.
Voluntary withholdings currently in practice are:
a.
Blue Cross-Blue Shield or Health Maintenance Organization
premiums
b.
C.
d.
e.
Teachers' Association dues
Tax Sheltered Annuities
Accident and Health Insurance
Teachers will be allowed to participate in the Town of Lunenburg
Section 125 Cafeteria Plan pursuant to the provisions of Section
125 of the Internal Revenue Code:
Employee contributions to group health insurance will be
19
===PAGE 22===
2)
made in pre-tax dollars;
Employees may voluntarily participate in a Medical Care
Account Plan (MEDCAP) and/or a Dependent Care
Account Plan (DECAP) subject to all applicable laws and
regulations; it is understood that MEDCAP and DECAP
are funded by employee contribution in toto, and that
withdrawal from either during the plan year is prohibited
under ordinary circumstances. All requirements and
procedures set forth in the Summary Plan Description
concerning benefits apply to MEDCAP and DECAP.
E. DUES DEDUCTION:
1.
2.
The District agrees to certify to the Treasurer of Lunenburg, all payroll
deductions for the payment of dues to the Association duly authorized by
employees covered by this Contract. If employees revoke their
authorization, the District will take immediate steps to cease the deduction
at the next certification to the Treasurer
In the event that the District is made a party to any litigation involving this
provision, the Association agrees to hold the District harmless and
indemnify it in full for any judgments, which are entered against the
District, provided that the District will agree to utilize the services of an
attorney chosen by the Association
ARTICLE XVII
CRITERIA GOVERNING ADVANCEMENT BETWEEN DEGREE SCHEDULES
AND PROFESSIONAL IMPROVEMENT
A. Courses must be taken from accredited institutions of higher education. Courses are
to be subject content oriented in the teacher's field or be prerequisites tor an
approved graduate degree program or deemed beneficial to the applicant in their
particular Lunenburg assignment.
B. Approval of a given course on the prescribed form must be received from the
Superintendent of Schools prior to taking the course if it is to receive credit for
salary purposes. There is no limit on the number of classes that can be taken,
however, unless a teacher is enrolled in a formal degree or licensure program, only
nine (9) credits may be applied per year for purposes of advancing on the salary
schedule. Teachers seeking to apply more than nine (9) credits in a year must
provide evidence of their enrollment in a degree or licensure program. Credits
earned over nine (9) but unable to be applied may be rolled over and submitted the
following year.
C. All courses, whether district-based courses or otherwise, offered by degree granting
20
===PAGE 23===
institutions will be acceptable if the provisions of "A" and "B" above are met.
D. CRITERIA FOR REIMBURSEMENT:
1. The Committee will pay the reasonable expenses (including fees, meals, lodging
and/or transportation) incurred by teachers who attend workshops, seminars,
conferences or other professional improvement sessions at the request of the
School Administration and with the advance approval of the Superintendent of
Schools.
2. Teachers must present a receipt bill for payment.
E. Professional development activities shall be coordinated through the Professional
Development Committee, subject to the approval of the Director of Professional
Development and Superintendent of Schools.
ARTICLE XVIII
REDUCTION IN FORCE
A. This section does not apply to teachers without Professional Teacher Status. No
professional status Teachers shall be laid off while there is a non-Professional
Teacher Status Teacher whose position the Professional Status Teacher is
licensed/certified to fill.
In the event of any reduction in the force of employees with professional teacher
status, the criterion defined below will be used to select those to be laid off, except
where the Superintendent determines that substantial performance variations, the
presence or absence of special experience or training, or other substantial
educational considerations exist, in which case the Superintendent shall determine
which employee shall be laid off.
C.. Academic disciplines are:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
Biology
Business
Chemistry
Early Childhood
Earth Science
Elementary
English
Foreign Language
General Science
Health
History/Social Sciences/Social Studies
Instructional Technology
Latin
Library
Mathematics
Middle School
21
===PAGE 24===
17.
Music
18.
Physical Education
19.
Physics
20.
Reading
21.
School Guidance Counselor
22.
School Nurse
23.
School Psychologist
24.
School Social Worker/School Adjustment Counselor
25.
Specialist in Speech, Language, and Hearing Disorders
26.
Teacher of Students with Moderate Disabilities
27.
Teacher of Students with Severe Disabilities
28.
Teacher of the Visually Impaired
29.
Technology/Engineering
30.
Visual Art
31. BCBA (added 24-27 - was included prior, but not on list)
D. Seniority shall be defined as continuous unbroken service in a professional
educational position in Lunenburg (either in or out of the bargaining unit) from the
date of appointment to any such position and including the time spent on leave-of-
absence whether paid or unpaid, up to and including two total years.
In the event two (2) or more persons are tied, the tie breaker, in order shall be:
1. Degree Status;
2. More years of total teaching experience;
3. Lottery.
Annually, but no later than October 15th, the parties will have either agreed upon a
seniority list or identified the persons with respect to whom there is disagreement.
Any such disagreements will be resolved in one arbitration pursuant to the
Expedited Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.
E. In the case of any layoff or reorganization, layoffs will be made, in the judgment of
the Superintendent, based on the best interests of the students, and the qualifications
of the teachers.
1. If the position to be eliminated in a particular department is held by a professional
status teacher, that teacher may displace a non-professional status teacher;
provided, that the professional status teacher is properly licensed for the position
he or she seeks to assume.
2. As between teachers with professional status who are properly licensed for a
position that remains after a reduction or reorganization, layoff decisions shall be
based upon qualifications. Qualifications shall include, primarily, indicators of
performance as defined herein and the best interests of students, and shall also
include, experience in the subject matter/area and grade levels, professional
training, educational background, other active and inactive licenses held, other
materials in the personnel file, and the anticipated needs of the school district.
22
===PAGE 25===
System-wide seniority within academic disciplines, as defined above, shall be
considered as a tiebreaker among teachers whose qualifications are no different
using the criteria in this Article.
3. Indicators of performance shall include: ratings from 2 or more performance
evaluations (except that no distinction shall be made between evaluations that
meet or exceed performance standards); disciplinary history; attendance; and
commendations/awards. These are not to be considered an order of priorities but
are identified to indicate that a judgment will be made if and when reductions
become necessary with each of the above factors being given appropriate weight.
F. Laid off employees with Professional Teaching Status will retain recall rights for a
period of two (2) years from the effective date of their layoff. (August 31 is the
effective date of a layoff for an employee scheduled for layoff status the next school
year.)
In the event a vacancy occurs in a position for which an employee with recall rights
is then currently qualified pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c. 71S. 38G will be
offered that position. In the event there are two or more employees who are so
qualified, the criteria for selection between them will be applied as set forth in
section 1. above. Such employee(s) shall be notified of the opening by certified mail
to the then last address of record, and the employee shall have ten (10) calendar days
from the date of mailing to notify the Superintendent in writing of his/her acceptance
of the position. Failure to do so notify terminates all rights under this recall
provision.
Recalled employees shall be restored all benefits and seniority, but they shall not
accumulate benefits or seniority while on recall status.
Laid off employees may continue group health and life insurance during the recall
period as permitted under applicable law by reimbursing the town the total premium
cost. Failure to forward premium payments to the town during the period of layoff or
refusal to return to employment upon recall will terminate all rights under this
Article.
ARTICLE XIX
ASSOCIATION BUSINESS
A. The School Committee will grant up to five (5) days in total for Association
business to attend the MTA annual meeting. The Association will reimburse the
District the cost of substitutes.
B. The School Committee shall allow the LEA President and Contract Manager to not
be assigned duties in order to respond to emails and phone calls, and to
communicate or meet with union membership. (Revised 24-27)
23
===PAGE 26===
ARTICLE XX
SALARIES
A. For the duration of the July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2027 Agreement, the salary scale in
effect on June 30, 2024 shall be amended as follows:
1. Salary Schedules for 2025-2027 (Teachers, Nurses, Athletics & Stipends).
a. FY25: Appendix B, 2.5% adjustment to salary schedule Apply 2.5%
adjustment to Athletic and Extra Curricular Salary Schedule
b. FY26: Appendix B, 4% adjustment to salary schedule Apply 4%
adjustment to Athletic and Extra Curricular Salary Schedule
c. FY27: Appendix B, 3.5% adjustment to salary schedule Apply 3.5%
adjustment to Athletic and Extra Curricular Salary Schedule
2. Effective July 1, 2022, a new step 13 will be created that is $1,000 above Step 12.
The flat dollar amount of $1,000 will be added to step 12 after the COLA has been
applied to create the new step 13. Members on step 12 as of FY22 who are eligible
to advance to the next step will advance to step 13 effective July 1, 2022. Members
will advance from step to step, including step 13, as set forth in Article XVI.
3. Effective July 1, 2023, the flat dollar amount of $500 will be added to step 13 (atter
the COLA has been applied).
4. Effective June 30, 2024, the flat dollar amount of $250 will be added to step 13.
5. Step increases and lane changes shall be honored in accordance with the terms of
6. Salaries for additional duties performed in connection with Activities and Athletics
shall be amended as outlined in (a) above.
B. SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGIST AND GUIDANCE COUNSELORS SALARY
DIFFERENTIALS:
1. A $400.00 differential was adopted for the Lunenburg Public Schools
Psychologist.
2. A $200.00 differential was adopted for Guidance Counselors.
C. GUIDANCE PERSONNEL - SPECIAL NEEDS PERSONNEL
REMUNERATION BEYOND TEACHERS' NORMAL SCHOOL YEAR:
In the event it is felt to be necessary for Guidance and Special Needs personnel to
work beyond the number of days required of all other teaching staff, they will
receive additional remuneration on a prorated per diem basis at the rate of 1/183rd
of their annual base salary. This additional time will be subject to the prior approval
of the Superintendent of Schools.
D. CRITERIA GOVERNING COACHES SALARY:
New coaches will come into the assignment at the Step 1 rate; however, the
Committee reserves the right to place a new coach on another step on the basis of
previous experience in a comparable assignment in other school systems.
24
===PAGE 27===
The salaries for Coaches are set forth in the salary schedules attached hereto and
incorporated in this Agreement. Unless otherwise negotiated, stipends and coaches?
salaries shall receive the agreed upon COLA increase applied to the salary
schedules in section A of this Article. (Revised 24-27)
E. Salaries for after school activities, extracurricular activities and department heads
and other co-curricular work are contained in this contract.
F. LONGEVITY:
Members of Unit A that have completed a minimum of 30 years of continuous
service to the Lunenburg Public Schools shall receive a longevity increase. This
longevity payment will be added to the base salary and paid regularly in all payroll
checks at the rate of 4%. (Revised 24-27)
15 to 19 years:
20 to 24 years:
25 or more years:
Add $1,900.00 to Step 13 for teachers who have completed
15 years of teaching service before the start of school year in
the Lunenburg Public Schools
Add $3,800.00 to Step 13 for teachers who have completed
20 years of teaching service before the start of school year in
the Lunenburg Public Schools
Add $5,700.00 to Step 13 for teachers who have completed
25 years of teaching service before the start of school year in
the Lunenburg Public Schools
H. NURSING COORDINATOR:
The nursing coordinator position will be posted and appointed annually by the
District. The nursing coordinator will perform duties as assigned by the
Superintendent.
I.
J.
SERVICE RECOGNITION PROGRAM:
Effective July 1, 2021, the Service Recognition Program will be phased out. No
new applications will be accepted. Bargaining unit member already enrolled in and
receiving payments under this program, including the four (4) members accepted
for this program for FY22, will continue receiving payments until such members
have received their total $15,000 payout. By the end of FY24, all payments
anticipated or due under this program will be satisfied and the Service Recognition
Program will be eliminated.
RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM:
A teacher who upon retirement from the district after a minimum of twenty (20)
25
===PAGE 28===
K.
years of service in Lunenburg has accumulated 100 sick days will be entitled to a
one-time payment up to $8,500 based on a daily amount of eighty-five dollars
($85.00) per day for up to a maximum of 100 days, payable before June 30th.
(Revised 24-27)
1. The employee must provide the Superintendent's Office with a written notice of
retirement by December 15'" in the school year prior to the intended date of
retirement.
2. The employee may not use more than twelve (12) sick days in any one year of
their final two (2) years. Exemptions from this requirement during the final two
(2)years of service will be sick leave used due to documented hospitalization,
surgery, or long-term illness of the employee or immediate family member (as
defined in Article Ill, section B).
1. National Board Certified Nurses will advance on the salary grid to "Masters".
(Added 24-27)
2. Educators with a CAGS, second Masters, or nurses with Masters and Board
Certification will be placed at MA+45. (Added 24-27)
ARTICLE XXI
COURSE AND CONFERENCE REIMBURSEMENT
A. COURSE REIMBURSEMENT:
The reimbursement total paid to all bargaining unit members in any fiscal year
under this provision shall not exceed thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00). The
fiscal year will be divided into two reimbursement periods with the total split into
equal pools of fifteen thousand dollars $15,000.
• Courses taken from July to December will be eligible for reimbursement in
March. Deadline to submit reimbursement documentation to the Business
Office for March reimbursement is January 15.
• Courses taken from January to June will be eligible for reimbursement in
September. Deadline to submit reimbursement documentation to the
Business Office for September reimbursement is July 15.
• Individuals who miss a submission deadline or submit late documentation
will be eligible for and will have their request for reimbursement processed
as part of the next cycle.
Any remaining money in the pool following the first round of reimbursements will
be carried over to the second reimbursement period. In the event funds remain
following the second round of payments, they will be made available to Bargaining
Unit Members for additional course reimbursements. In the event requests exceed
available pool funds, reimbursements will be apportioned to staff as equally as
possible. Unexpended course reimbursement funds, not to exceed $5,000.00 will be
carried over to the following school year.
26
===PAGE 29===
In-house courses offered at reduced costs of $225.00 or less are not eligible for
reimbursement; however, these courses will continue to be counted toward degree
status advancement. Individuals may elect to receive a Lunenburg credit for these
courses which can be applied to degree status advancement solely in Lunenburg.
Each Bargaining Unit Member will be eligible to receive reimbursement for tuition
and fees for courses completed with a passing grade of B or better at an accredited
four year college and/or university up to a maximum of nine hundred dollars
($900.00) per course, subject to the following conditions:
1. All courses must be approved in advance by the Superintendent of Schools
or his/her designee and must support the teacher's primary teaching
responsibility in Lunenburg.
2. A final grade report along with payment verification must be submitted to
the Superintendent's office not later than January 15th to be eligible for the
first round of reimbursements and not later than July 15th for the second
round of reimbursements.
3. To qualify for reimbursement, Bargaining Unit Members must continue to
be actively employed in the Lunenburg Public Schools during the school
year following the completion of said courses. Should a bargaining unit
member fail to return to the employ of the Lunenburg Public Schools full
reimbursement of all funds awarded to that member must be made within
thirty (30) days of the termination date.
B. CONFERENCE REIMBURSEMENT:
The reimbursement total paid to all bargaining unit members in any fiscal year
under this provision shall not exceed sixteen thousand dollars ($16,000.00). This
pool will support both conference and substitute costs. The fiscal year will be
divided into two reimbursement periods with the total split into equal pools of eight
thousand dollars ($8,000). All substitute fees for individuals attending conferences
are to be paid from this pool. Conferences attended from July to December will be
eligible for reimbursement in January (last pay of the month). Conferences
attended from January to June will be eligible for reimbursement in September (last
pay of the month). Any remaining money in the pool following the first round of
reimbursements will be carried over to the second reimbursement period. In the
event funds still remain following the second round of payments, they will be made
available to Bargaining Unit Members for additional conference reimbursements.
Each Bargaining Unit Member will be eligible to receive reimbursement up to a
maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per conference, subject to the following
conditions:
. All conferences must be approved in advance by the Superintendent o
chools or his/her designee and must support the teacher's primary teaching
responsibility in Lunenburg.
27
===PAGE 30===
C.
2. Payment verification must be submitted to the Superintendent's office not
later than December 30 of the current fiscal year to be eligible for the first
round of reimbursements and not later than July 30 for the second round of
reimbursements.
3. Employees may also submit for approval, subject to the same conditions and
limitations provided in
this section for conferences, requests for
reimbursement of dues paid by the employee for membership in content area
professional organizations and societies.
CPI CERTIFICATION AND RE-CERTIFICATION
CPI Certification and Re-Certification will be offered during the school day for
those required to have such certification as a condition of employment, and for
those individuals designated by a building Principal to be part of a school's "crisis
ARTICLE XXII
EVALUATION
Educator Evaluations shall be conducted in accordance with the instruments and
procedures contained in Professional Educator Standards of the Lunenburg Public
Schools which contains the procedures and instruments used to evaluate Educators. A
standing joint sub-committee of Administrators appointed by the Superintendent and
Educators appointed by the Association will meet at least annually for the purpose of
updating the evaluation system during the term of this agreement. Recommendations of
the joint sub-committee will be subject to approval by the School Committee and the
Association membership, respectively. The document Professional Educator Standard of
the Lunenburg Public Schools is hereby incorporated into this document as Appendix C.
ARTICLE XXIII
DEPARTMENT HEAD AND BUILDING LEADERSHIP TEAM
These assignments have been amended in their job responsibilities set by the
administration for these assignments.
Department Head
• Department Chairs will meet prior to the start of the school year for a total of 6
hours, weekly (before or after school) with the building principal, and monthly
(before or after school) with the building principal. Department Heads will
have one class in their 5-block schedule to be used as release time for their
Department Head duties. One of these release time blocks should be used for
the weekly meeting with the building principal (if possible).
• Participation in Advisory will be required, if needed.
28
===PAGE 31===
Building Leadership Team
• The building leadership team will meet the principal prior to the start of the
school year or during the first week of school for a total of 6 hours, and twice a
month (before or after school) for one hour from September through June, or
once a month for two hours from September to June according to group
consensus annually. A schedule for meeting dates shall be set over the summer
for inclusion on the district-wide calendar.
• The principal will have the discretion to select the members of the leadership
team with the intention that the make-up of this group represents each grade
level as well as special areas and special education. In the event a group is
inadequately represented in a case where the principal has not selected an
applicant who would represent that area, the Association or member may seek
an appeal to the Superintendent, whose decision shall be final.
ARTICLE XXIV
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Association affirms that the Committee is a public body established under and with
powers provided by the statutes of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and nothing in
this agreement shall be deemed to derogate from, or impair, any power, right, or duty
conferred upon the Committee by statute or any rule or regulation of any agency of the
Commonwealth. As to every matter not specifically mentioned or not provided for in this
agreement, the Committee retains all powers, rights and duties that it has by law and may
exercise the same at its discretion, without any such exercise being made the subject of a
grievance or arbitration proceeding hereunder.
ARTICLE XAV
DURATION
A. This Contract shall continue in effect from July 1, 2024 up to and including June 30,
2027 and shall thereafter automatically renew itself for successive terms of one year
each unless by the November Ist next prior to the year of expiration, either the
Committee or the Association shall have given the other written notice of its desire to
modify or terminate this Contract.
B. As to every matter not specifically mentioned or provided for in this Agreement, the
COMMITTEE has the powers and duties conferred upon it by law and may act upon
the same without being subject to arbitration under this agreement provided, however,
this article shall not be construed to mean that any employee who may be aggrieved by
the exercise of any such power by the COMMITTEE shall be prevented from
protesting and taking up such matter with any superior, including the SCHOOL
COMMITTEE, with a view towards securing a modification or revocation of the
29
===PAGE 32===
action protested, further provided, however, that any decision thereafter made by the
SCHOOL COMMITTEE which does not involve the interpretation or application of
the agreement with respect to such matter shall be final.
C. The contract may be reopened for negotiation provided the parties mutually agree and
for the limited purpose of negotiating over Appendix B Athletic Salary Stipends,
and/or Extra Curricular Salary Schedule and/or Appendix C Evaluation. The purpose
of these negotiations will be to update the stipend list by adding or deleting outdated
positions, increasing or decreasing the salaries of existing stipends, adding new
stipends or modifying the evaluation. Any member of the collective bargaining unit
may request the creation of a stipended position. Such a request shall be made before
January 1s. Requests shall include:
1. A Statement of purpose for the position
2. An estimate of student participation or student benefit
3. Suggested Stipend Tier with justification.
30
===PAGE 33===
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this CONTRACT have caused these present to
be executed by their agents hereunto duly authorized, and their seal to be affixed hereto
as of the date first above written:
Signatures on file at the Office of the Superintendent.
LUNENBURG EDUCATION
ASSOCIATION:
Mang ale
Toothy Heap
Secretary
Dawn Again
LUNENBURG SCHOOL
COMMITTEE:
Chairperson
Vice-Chairperson
carchambauet
Secretary
Lee PRooki
Member
Date signed:
31
===PAGE 34===
Appendix A
Lunenburg Public Schools
Personal Leave Request
Date filling out form:
Name:
School:
Date and Day of Week of Requested Leave:!
Date:
_Day of Week:
I am requesting personal leave on the above date(s) for the purpose of attending to personal or
family business, which cannot be conducted outside of school hours
Employee signature:
Date submitted to administrator:
The above leave is approved as having been requested in accordance with the terms of the
Collective Bargaining Agreement in affect between the Lunenburg School Committee and the
Lunenburg Education Association.
Approval date by administrator:
Administrator signature:
Superintendent Signature*:
* Superintendent signature will be required when a request is during the first five days of the school year,
during the last five days of the school year, or immediately preceding or following school vacation periods
or holidays. This form will be forwarded from the building administrator to the Superintendent's Office to
review for approval.
i Requests for personal days must be received in writing at least 48 hours in advance of the date the leave is
to be taken. If the employee wishes to use a personal day for personal illness or illness in the immediate
family or emergency, the requirements for 48 hours notice will be waived.
" An employee may not be required to provide a more detailed statement of reasons when requesting personal leave,
except in the case of requesting a restricted day from the Superintendent.
32
===PAGE 35===
Appendix B
Salary Schedules
FY 25 Salary 2.5% COLA
Steps Bach
B+15
B+30
Masters M+15 M+30 M+45 M+60 M+75
1 50,790 53,398 56,004
58,613 61,219 63,825
66,431
69,037
71,644
2 52,962 55,570 58,175
60,783 63,389 65,997
68,602
71,210
73,668
3 55,135 57,740 60,349
62,956 65,562 68,168
70,775
73,381
75,988
4 57,310 59,917 62,521
65,126 67,733 70,339
72,946
75,554
78,160
5 59,479 62,087 64,692
67,299 69,906 72,512
75,120
77,726
80,331
6 61,653 64,259
66,867
69,473 72,077 74,684
77,294
79,899
82,503
7 63,825 66,431 69,037
71,644 74,253 76,855
79,463
82,071
84,675
8 65,997 68,602 71,210
73,814 76,423 79,030
81,634
84,243
86,850
9 68,168 70,775 73,381
75,988 78,596 81,204
83,808
86,415
89,022
10 70,339
72,946 75,554
78,160 80,767 83,374
85,980
88,587
91,192
11 72,512 75,120 77,726
80,331 82,942 85,545
88,151
90,760
93,366
12 77,079 79,700 82,318
84,938 87,560
90,176
92,796
95,417
98,036
13 78,883 81,504
84,122
86,742 89,364 91,980
94,600
97,221
99,840
FY 26 Salary 4.0% COLA
Steps Bach
B+15
B+30
1
52,822 55,534
58,244
2
55,080 57,793 60,502
57,340
60,050 62,763
4 59,602
62,314
65,022
5
61,858 64,570 67,280
64,119
66,829
69,542
7 66,378
69,088 71,798
8 68,637 71,346 74,058
9 70,895 73,606 76,316
10 73,153 75,864 78,576
11
75,412
: 78,125 80,835
12
80,162
82,888 85,611
13 82,038
84,764 87,487
Masters M+15
M+30
M+45
M+60
M+75
60,958 63,668
66,378
69,088
71,798
74,510
63,214 65,925
68,637
71,346
74,058
76,615
65,474 68,184
70,895
73,606
76,316
79,028
67,731 70,442
73,153
75,864
78,576
81,286
69,991|72,702 75,412
78,125
80,835
83,544
72,252 74,960 77,671
80,386
83,095
85,803
74,510 77,223 79,929
82,642
85,354
88,062
76,767 79,480 82,191
84,899
87,613
90,324
79,028 81,740 84,452
87,160
89,872
92,583
81,286 83,998 86,709
89,419
92,130
94,840
83,544 86,260
88,967
91,677
94,390
97,101
88,336 91,062
93,783
96,508
99,234 101,957
90,212 92,939 95,659
98,384 101,110 103,834
FY 27 Salary 3.5% COLA
Steps Bach
B+15
B+30
1 54,671 57,478 60,283
2 57,008
59,816 62,620
3 59,347
62,152 64,960
4 61,688
64,495 67,298
5 64,023
66,830 69,635
Masters M+15
M+30
M+45 M+60
M+75
63,092 65,896
68,701
71,506
74,311
77,118
65,426 68,232
71,039
73,843
76,650
79,297
67,766 70,570 73,376
76,182
78,987
81,794
70,102 72,907
75,713
78,519
81,326
84,131
72,441 75,247 78,051
80,859
83,664
86,468
33
Doctorate
74,253
76,423
78,596
80,767
82,942
85,111
87,282
89,454
91,628
93,800
95,971
100,655
102,459
Doctorate
77,223
79,480
81,740
83,998
86,260
88,515
90,773
93,032
95,293
97,552
99,810
104,681
106,557
Doctorate
79,926
82,262
84,601
86,938
89,279
===PAGE 36===
66,363
69,168 71,976|
7 68,701 71,506 74,311
8 71,039 73,843 76,650
9 73,376 76,182 78,987
10 75,713 78,519 81,326
78,051 80,859
83,664
12 82,968 85,789
88,607
13 84,909 87,731 90,549
74,781|77,584 80,389 83,200
86,003
88,806
77,118 79,926 82,727
85,534
88,341
91,144
79,454 82,262 85,068
87,870
90,679
93,485
81,794 84,601 87,408
90,211
93,018
95,823
84,131 86,938 89,744
92,549
95,355
98,159
86,468 89,279 92,081
94,886
97,694 100,500
91,428 94,249 97,065
99,886 102,707 105,525
93,369 96,192 99,007 101,827 104,649 107,468
91,613
93,950
96,288
98,628
100,966
103,303
108,345
110,286
34
===PAGE 37===
APPENDIX C
EVALUATION
1) Purpose of Educator Evaluation
A) This contract language is locally negotiated and based on M.G.L., c.71, 8 38; M.G.L.
c.150E; the Educator Evaluation regulations, 603 CMR 35.00 et seq.; and the Model
System for Educator Evaluation developed and which may be updated from time to time
by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. See 603 CMR 35.02
(definition of model system). In the event of a conflict between this collective bargaining
agreement and the governing laws and regulations, the laws and regulations will prevail.
B) The regulatory purposes of evaluation are:
i) To promote student learning, growth, and achievement by providing Educators with
feedback for improvement, enhanced opportunities for professional growth, and clear
structures for accountability, 603 CMR 35.01(2)(a);
ii) To provide a record of facts and assessments for personnel decisions, 35.01(2)(b);
iIi) To ensure that every school committee has a system to enhance the
professionalism and accountability of teachers and administrators that will enable
them to assist all students to perform at high levels, 35.01(3); and
iv) To assure effective teaching and administrative leadership, 35.01(3).
2) Definitions (* indicates definition is generally based on 603 CMIR 35.02)
A) *Artifacts of Professional Practice: Products of an Educator's work and student work
samples that demonstrate the Educator's knowledge and skills with respect to specific
performance standards.
B) Caseload Educator: Educators who teach or counsel individual or small groups of
students through consultation with the regular classroom teacher, for example, school
nurses, guidance counselors, speech and language pathologists, and some reading
specialists and special education teachers.
C) Classroom teacher: Educators who teach preK-12 whole classes, and teachers of
special subjects such as art, music, library, and physical education. May also
include special education teachers and reading specialists who teach whole classes.
D) Categories of Evidence: Multiple measures of student learning, growth, and
achievement, judgments based on observations and artifacts of professional practice,
including unannounced
observations of practice of at least ten (10 ) minutes; and additional evidence relevant to
one or more Standards of Effective Teaching Practice (603 CMR 35.03).
35
===PAGE 38===
E) *Educators): Inclusive term that applies to all classroom teachers and caseload
educators, unless otherwise noted.
F) *Educator Plan: The growth or improvement actions identified as part of each
Educator's evaluation. The type of plan is determined by the Educator's career stage,
overall performance rating, and the rating of impact on student learning, growth and
achievement. There shall be four types of Educator Plans:
i) Developing Educator Plan shall mean a plan developed by the Educator and the
Evaluator for one school year or less for an Educator without Professional Teacher
Status (PTS); or, at the discretion of an Evaluator, for an Educator with PTS in a new
assignment.
il) Self-Directed Growth Plan shall mean a plan developed by the Educator for one or two
school years for Educators with PTS who are rated proficient or exemplary.
ill) Directed Growth Plan shall mean a plan developed by the Educator and the Evaluator
of one school year or less for Educators with PTS who are rated needs improvement.
iv) Improvement Plan shall mean a plan developed by the Evaluator of at least 45
school days and no more than one school year for Educators with PTS who are rated
unsatisfactory with goals specific to improving the Educator's unsatisfactory
performance. In those cases where an Educator is rated unsatisfactory near the close of
a school year, the plan may include activities during the summer preceding the next
school year.
G) *ESE: The Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.
H) *Evaluation: The ongoing process of defining goals and identifying, gathering, and
using information as part of a process to improve professional performance (the
"formative evaluation" and "formative assessment") and to assess total job effectiveness
and make personnel decisions (the "summative evaluation"').
I) *Evaluator: Any person designated by a superintendent who has primary or
supervisory responsibility for observation and evaluation. The superintendent is
responsible for ensuring that all Evaluators have training in the principles of supervision
and evaluation. Each Educator will have one primary Evaluator at any one time
responsible for determining performance ratings.
i) Primary Evaluator shall be the person who determines the Educator's performance
ratings and evaluation.
ii) Supervising Evaluator shall be the person responsible for developing the Educator
Plan, supervising the Educator's progress through formative assessments, evaluating
the Educator's progress toward attaining the Educator Plan goals, and making
recommendations about the evaluation ratings to the primary Evaluator at the end of
the Educator Plan. The Supervising Evaluator may be the primary Evaluator or his/her
36
===PAGE 39===
designee.
ili) Teaching Staff Assigned to More Than One Building: Each Educator who is assigned
to more than one building will be evaluated by the appropriate administrator where the
individual is assigned most of the time. The principal of each building in which the
Educator serves must review and sign the evaluation, and may add written comments. In
cases where there is no predominate assignment, the superintendent will determine who
the primary evaluator will be.
iv) Notification: The Educator shall be notified in writing of his/her primary Evaluator
and supervising Evaluator, if any, at the outset of each new evaluation cycle. The
Evaluator(s) may be changed upon notification in writing to the Educator.
J Evaluation Cycle: A five-component process that all Educators follow consisting of 1)
Self Assessment; 2) Goal-setting and Educator Plan development; 3) Implementation of
the Plan; 4) Formative Assessment/Evaluation; and 5) Summative Evaluation.
K) *Experienced Educator: An educator with Professional Teacher Status (PTS).
M) *Family: Includes students' parents, legal guardians, foster parents, or primary
caregivers.
L) *Formative Assessment: The process used to assess progress towards attaining goals
set forth in Educator plans, performance on standards, or both. This process may take
place at any times) during the cycle of evaluation, but typically takes place at mid-cycle.
M) *Formative Evaluation: An evaluation conducted at the end of Year 1 for an Educator
on a 2- year Self-Directed Growth plan which is used to arrive at a rating on progress
towards attaining the goals set forth in the Educator Plan, performance on Standards and
Indicators of Effective Teaching Practice, or both.
N *Goal: A specific, actionable, and measurable area of improvement as set forth in an
Educator's plan. A goal may pertain to any or all of the following: Educator practice in
relation to Performance Standards, Educator practice in relation to indicators, or
specified improvement in student learning, growth and achievement. Goals may be
developed by individual Educators, by the Evaluator, or by teams, departments, or
groups of Educators who have the same role.
O) *Measurable: That which can be classified or estimated in relation to a scale,
rubric, or standards.
P) Multiple Measures of Student Learning: Measures must include a combination of
classroom, school and district assessments, student growth percentiles on state
assessments, if state assessments are available, and student MEPA gain scores. This
definition may be revised as required by regulations or agreement of the parties upon
37
===PAGE 40===
issuance of ESE guidance expected by July 2012.
Q) *Observation: A data gathering process that includes notes and judgments made
during one or more classroom or worksite visits(s) of at least ten (10 ) minutes by the
Evaluator and may include examination of artifacts of practice including student work.
An observation will occur in person. Classroom or worksite observations conducted
pursuant to this article must result in feedback to the Educator. Normal supervisory
responsibilities of department, building and district administrators will also cause
administrators to drop in on classes and other activities in the worksite at various times as
deemed necessary by the administrator. Carrying out these supervisory responsibilities,
when they do not result in targeted and constructive feedback to the Educator, are not
observations as defined in this Article.
R) Parties: The parties to this agreement are the local school committee and the
employee organization that represents the Educators covered by this agreement for
purposes of collective bargaining ("Employee Organization/Association").
S) *Performance Rating: Describes the Educator's performance on each performance
standard and overall. There shall be four performance ratings:
§ Exemplary: the Educator's performance consistently and significantly exceeds the
requirements of a standard or overall. The rating of exemplary on a standard indicates
that practice significantly exceeds proficient and could serve as a model of practice on
that standard district-wide.
§ Proficient: the Educator's performance fully and consistently meets the
requirements of a standard or overall. Proficient practice is understood to be fully
satisfactory.
§ Needs Improvement: the Educator's performance on a standard or overall is below
the requirements of a standard or overall, but is not considered to be unsatisfactory
at this time. Improvement is necessary and expected.
§ Unsatisfactory: the Educator's performance on a standard or overall has not
significantly improved following a rating of needs improvement, or the Educator's
performance is consistently below the requirements of a standard or overall and is
considered inadequate, or both.
T) *Performance Standards: Locally developed standards and indicators pursuant to
M.G.L. c. 71, § 38 and consistent with, and supplemental to 603 CMR 35.00. The
parties may agree to limit standards and indicators to those set forth in 603 CMR
35.03.
U) *Professional Teacher Status: PTS is the status granted to an Educator pursuant to
M.G.L. c. 71, § 41.
38
===PAGE 41===
V) Rating of Educator Impact on Student Learning: A rating of high, moderate or low
based on trends and patterns on state assessments and district-determined measures.
The parties will negotiate the process for using state and district-determined measures
to arrive at an Educator's rating of impact on student learning, growth and achievement,
using guidance and model contract language from ESE, expected by July 2012.
W) Rating of Overall Educator Performance: The Educator's overall performance rating
is based on the Evaluator's professional judgment and examination of evidence of the
Educator's performance against the four Performance Standards and the Educator's
attainment of goals set forth in the Educator Plan, as follows:
i) Standard 1: Curriculum, Planning and Assessment
ii) Standard 2: Teaching All Students
iii) Standard 3: Family and Community Engagement
iv) Standard 4: Professional Culture
v) Attainment of Professional Practice Goal(s)
vi) Attainment of Student Learning Goal(s)
X) *Rubric: A scoring tool that describes characteristics of practice or artifacts at
different levels of performance. The rubrics for Standards and Indicators of Effective
Teaching Practice are used to rate Educators on Performance Standards, these rubrics
consists of:
i) Standards: Describes broad categories of professional practice, including those required
in 603 CMR 35.03
il) Indicators: Describes aspects of each standard, including those required in 603
CMR 35.03 iii) Elements: Defines the individual components under each indicator
iv) Descriptors: Describes practice at four levels of performance for each element
Y) *Summative Evaluation: An evaluation used to arrive at a rating on each standard,
an overall rating, and as a basis to make personnel decisions. The summative
evaluation includes the Evaluator's judgments of the Educator's performance against
Performance Standards and the Educator's attainment of goals set forth in the
Educator's Plan.
Z) *Superintendent: The person employed by the school committee pursuant to M.G.L.
c. 71 §59 and §59A. The superintendent is responsible for the implementation of 603
CMR 35.00.
AA) *Teacher: An Educator employed in a position requiring a certificate or license as
described in 603 CMR 7.04(3)(a, b, and d) and in the area of vocational education as
39
===PAGE 42===
provided in 603 CMR 4.00. Teachers may include, for example, classroom teachers,
librarians, guidance counselors, or school nurses.
BB) *Trends in student learning: At least two years of data from the district-determined
measures and state assessments used in determining the Educator's rating on impact on
student learning as high, moderate or low.
3) Evidence Used In Evaluation The following categories of evidence shall be used in
evaluating each Educator:
A) Multiple measures of student learning, growth, and achievement, which shall include:
i) Measures of student progress on classroom assessments that are aligned with the
Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks or other relevant frameworks and are comparable
within grades or subjects in a school;
il) At least two district-determined measures of student learning related to the
Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks or the Massachusetts Vocational Technical
Education Frameworks or other relevant frameworks that are comparable across grades
and/or subjects district-wide. These measures may include: portfolios, approved
commercial assessments and district-developed pre and post unit and course assessments,
and capstone projects. One such measure shall be the MCAS Student Growth Percentile
(SGP) or Massachusetts English Proficiency Assessment gain scores, if applicable, in
which case at least two years of data is required.
ill) Measures of student progress and/or achievement toward student learning goals set
between the Educator and Evaluator for the school year or some other period of time
established in the Educator Plan.
iv) For Educators whose primary role is not as a classroom teacher, the appropriate
measures of the Educator's contribution to student learning, growth, and achievement
set by the district. The measures set by the district should be based on the Educator's
role and responsibility.
B) Judgments based on observations and artifacts of practice including:
i) Unannounced observations of practice of at least ten (10) minutes.
ii) Announced observation(s) for non-PTS Educators in their first year of practice in a
school, Educators on Improvement Plans, and as determined by the Evaluator.
iii) Examination of Educator work products.
iv) Examination of student work samples.
C) Evidence relevant to one or more Performance Standards, including but not
limited to: i) Evidence compiled and presented by the Educator, including:
40
===PAGE 43===
(a) Evidence of fulfillment of professional responsibilities and growth such as
self-assessments, peer collaboration, professional development linked to goals in the
Educator plans, contributions to the school community and professional culture;
(b) Evidence of active outreach to and engagement with families;
ii) Evidence of progress towards professional practice goal(s);
ill) Evidence of progress toward student learning outcomes goal(s).
iv) Student and Staff Feedback - see # 23-24, below; and
v) Any other relevant evidence from any source that the Evaluator shares with the
Educator: Other relevant evidence could include information provided by other
administrators such as the superintendent.
4) Rubric
The rubrics are a scoring tool used for the Educator's self-assessment, the
formative assessment, the formative evaluation and the summative evaluation
5) Evaluation Cycle: Training
A) Prior to the implementation of the new evaluation process contained in this article,
districts shall arrange training for all Educators, principals, and other evaluators that
outlines the components of the new evaluation process and provides an explanation of
the evaluation cycle. The district through the superintendent shall determine the type
and quality of training based on guidance provided by ESE.
B) By November 1st of the first year of this agreement, all Educators shall complete a
professional learning activity about self-assessment and goal-setting satisfactory to the
superintendent or principal. Any Educator hired after the November 1st date, and who
has not previously completed such an activity, shall complete such a professional
learning activity about self-assessment and goal-setting within three months of the date
of hire. The district through the superintendent shall determine the type and quality of
the learning activity based on guidance provided by ESE.
6) Evaluation Cycle: Annual Orientation
A) At the start of each school year, the superintendent, principal or designee shall
conduct a meeting for Educators and Evaluators focused substantially on educator
evaluation. The superintendent, principal or designee shall:
i) Provide an overview of the evaluation process, including goal setting and the educator
plans.
ii) Provide all Educators with directions for obtaining a copy of the forms used by the
41
===PAGE 44===
district. These may be electronically provided.
ili) The faculty meeting may be digitally recorded to facilitate orientation of
Educators hired after the beginning of the school year.
7) Evaluation Cycle: Self-Assessment
A) Completing the Self-Assessment
i) The evaluation cycle begins with the Educator completing and submitting to the
Primary or Supervising Evaluator a self-assessment (see evaluation timeline) or within
four weeks of the start of their employment at the school.
ii) The self-assessment includes:
(a) An analysis of evidence of student learning, growth and achievement for students
under the Educator's responsibility.
(b) An assessment of practice against each of the four Performance Standards of
effective practice using the district's rubric.
(c) Proposed goals to pursue:
(1st) At least one goal directly related to improving the Educator's own professional
practice. (2nd) At least one goal directed related to improving student learning.
B) Proposing the goals
i) Educators must consider goals for grade-level, subject-area, department teams, or other
groups of Educators who share responsibility for student learning and results, except as
provided in (i) below. Educators may meet with teams to consider establishing team
goals. Evaluators may participate in such meetings.
i) For Educators in their first year of practice, the Evaluator or his/her designee will meet
with each Educator (see evaluation timeline or within four weeks of the Educator's first
day of employment if the Educator begins employment after September 15th) to assist
the Educator in completing the self-assessment and drafting the professional practice and
student learning goals which must include induction and mentoring activities.
iii) Unless the Evaluator indicates that an Educator in his/her second or third years of
practice should continue to address induction and mentoring goals pursuant to 603
CMR 7.12, the Educator may address shared grade level or subject area team goals.
iv) For Educators with PTS and ratings of proficient or exemplary, the goals may be team
goals. In addition, these Educators may include individual professional practice goals
that address enhancing skills that enable the Educator to share proficient practices with
colleagues or develop leadership skills.
42
===PAGE 45===
v) For Educators with PTS and ratings of needs improvement or unsatisfactory, the
professional practice goal(s) must address specific standards and indicators identified
for improvement. In addition, the goals may address shared grade level or subject area
team goals.
8) Evaluation Cycle: Goal Setting and Development of the Educator Plan
A) Every Educator has an Educator Plan that includes, but is not limited to, one goal
related to the improvement of practice; one goal for the improvement of student
learning. The Plan also outlines actions the Educator must take to attain the goals
established in the Plan and benchmarks to assess progress. Goals may be developed by
individual Educators, by the Evaluator, or by teams, departments, or groups of
Educators who have similar roles and/or responsibilities. See Sections 15-19 for more
on Educator Plans.
B) To determine the goals to be included in the Educator Plan, the Evaluator reviews the
goals the Educator has proposed in the Self-Assessment, using evidence of Educator
performance and impact on student learning, growth and achievement based on the
Educator's self-assessment and other sources that Evaluator shares with the Educator. The
process for determining the Educator's impact on student learning, growth and
achievement will be determined after ESE issues guidance on this matter. See #22, below.
C) Educator Plan Development Meetings shall be conducted as follows:
i) Educators in the same school may meet with the Evaluator in teams and/or
individually at the end of the previous evaluation cycle (see evaluation timeline) or at
the start of the next academic year to develop their Educator Plan. Educators shall not
be expected to meet during the summer hiatus.
ii) For those Educators new to the school, the meeting with the Evaluator to establish the
Educator Plan (see evaluation timeline) or within six weeks of the start of their
assignment in that school.
iii) The Evaluator shall meet individually with Educators with PTS and ratings of needs
improvement or unsatisfactory to develop professional practice goal(s) that must address
specific standards and indicators identified for improvement. In addition, the goals may
address shared grade level or subject matter goals.
D) The Evaluator completes the Educator Plan (see evaluation timeline). The Educator
shall sign the Educator Plan within 5 school days of its receipt and may include a
written response. The Educator's signature indicates that the Educator received the
plan in a timely fashion. The signature does not indicate agreement or disagreement
with its contents. The Evaluator retains final authority over the content of the
Educator's Plan.
9) Evaluation Cycle: Observation of Practice and Examination of Artifacts -
Educators without PTS
43
===PAGE 46===
A) In the first year of practice or first year assigned to a school:
i) The Educator shall have at least one announced observation during the school year
using the protocol described in section 11B, below.
il) The Educator shall have at least four unannounced observations during the school year.
B) In their second and third years of practice or second and third years as a non-PTS
Educator in the school:
i) The Educator shall have at least three unannounced observations during the school year.
10) Evaluation Cycle: Observation of Practice and Examination of Artifacts -
Educators with PTS
A) The Educator whose overall rating is proficient or exemplary must have at
least one unannounced observation during the evaluation cycle.
B) The Educator whose overall rating is needs improvement must be observed
according to the Directed Growth Plan during the period of Plan which must include at
least two unannounced observations.
C) The Educator whose overall rating is unsatisfactory must be observed according to
the Improvement Plan which must include both unannounced and announced
observation. The number and frequency of the observations shall be determined by the
Evaluator, but in no case, for improvement plans of one year, shall there be fewer than
one announced and four unannounced observations. For Improvement Plans of six
months or fewer, there must be no fewer than one announced and two unannounced
observations.
11) Observations
The Evaluator's first observation of the Educator should take place by November (see
evaluation timeline for date). Observations required by the Educator Plan should be
completed by May (see evaluation timeline for date). The Evaluator may conduct
additional observations after this date.
The Evaluator is not required nor expected to review all the indicators in a rubric
during an observation.
A) Unannounced Observations
i) Unannounced observations may be in the form of partial or full-period classroom
visitations, Instructional Rounds, Walkthroughs, Learning Walks, or any other means
deemed useful by the Evaluator, principal, superintendent or other administrator.
il) The Educator will be provided with at least brief written feedback from the Evaluator
within 3-5 school days of the observation. The written feedback shall be delivered to
the Educator in person, by email, placed in the Educator's mailbox or mailed to the
44
===PAGE 47===
Educator's home.
ill) Any observation or series of observations resulting in one or more standards
judged to be unsatisfactory or needs improvement for the first time must be followed
by at least one observation of at least 30 minutes in duration within 30 school days.
B) Announced Observations
i) All non-PTS Educators in their first year in the school, PTS Educators on
Improvement Plans and PTS educators during the year of formative assessment at the
discretion of the evaluator shall have at least one Announced Observation.
(a) The Evaluator shall select the date and time of the lesson or activity to be
observed and discuss with the Educator any specific goal(s) for the observation.
(b) Within 5 school days of the scheduled observation, upon request of either the
Evaluator or Educator, the Evaluator and Educator shall meet for a pre-observation
conference. In lieu of a meeting, the Educator may inform the Evaluator in writing of the
nature of the lesson, the student population served, and any other information that will
assist the Evaluator to assess performance
(1st) The Educator shall provide the Evaluator a draft of the lesson, student conference,
IEP plan or activity. If the actual plan is different, the Educator will provide the
Evaluator with a copy prior to the observation.
(2nd) The Educator will be notified as soon as possible if the Evaluator will not be able to
attend the scheduled observation. The observation will be rescheduled with the Educator
as soon as reasonably practicable.
(c) Within 5 school days of the observation, the Evaluator and Educator shall meet for
a post observation conference. This timeframe may be extended due to unavailability
on the part of either the Evaluator or the Educator, but shall be rescheduled within 24
hours if possible.
(d) The Evaluator shall provide the Educator with written feedback within 5 school
days of the post-observation conference. For any standard where the Educator's
practice was found to be unsatisfactory or needs improvement, the feedback must:
(1st) Describe the basis for the Evaluator's judgment.
(2nd) Describe actions the Educator should take to improve his/her
performance. (3rd) Identify support and/or resources the Educator may use in
his/her improvement. (4th) State that the Educator is responsible for
addressing the need for improvement.
45
===PAGE 48===
12) Evaluation Cycle: Formative Assessment
A) A specific purpose for evaluation is to promote student learning, growth and
achievement by providing Educators with feedback for improvement. Evaluators are
expected to make frequent unannounced visits to classrooms. Evaluators are expected to
give targeted constructive feedback to Educators based on their observations of practice,
examination of artifacts, and analysis of multiple measures of student learning, growth
and achievement in relation to the Standards and Indicators of Effective Teaching
Practice.
B) Formative Assessment may be ongoing throughout the evaluation cycle but typically
takes place mid-cycle when a Formative Assessment report is completed. For an
Educator on a two year Self-Directed Growth Plan, the mid-cycle Formative
Assessment report is replaced by the Formative Evaluation report at the end of year
one. See section 13, below.
C) The Formative Assessment report provides written feedback and ratings to the
Educator about his/her progress towards attaining the goals set forth in the Educator Plan,
performance on Performance Standards and overall, or both
D) No less than two weeks before the due date for the Formative Assessment report,
which due date shall be established by the Evaluator with written notice to the Educator,
the Educator shall provide to the Evaluator evidence of family outreach and engagement,
fulfillment of professional responsibility and growth, and progress on attaining
professional practice and student learning goals. The educator may provide to the
evaluator additional evidence of the educator's performances against the four
Performance Standards.
E) Upon the request of either the Evaluator or the Educator, the Evaluator and the
Educator will meet either before or after completion of the Formative Assessment
Report.
F) The Evaluator shall complete the Formative Assessment report and provide a copy to
the Educator. All Formative Assessment reports must be signed by the Evaluator and
delivered face to-face, by email or to the Educator's school mailbox or home.
G) The Educator may reply in writing to the Formative Assessment report within 5
school days of receiving the report.
H) The Educator shall sign the Formative Assessment report within 5 school
days of receiving the report. The signature indicates that the Educator received
the Formative Assessment report in a timely fashion. The signature does not
indicate agreement or disagreement with its contents.
I As a result of the Formative Assessment Report, the Evaluator may change the
activities in the Educator Plan in a face-to-face conference with the educator
46
===PAGE 49===
J) If the rating in the Formative Assessment report differs from the last summative
rating the Educator received, the Evaluator may place the Educator on a different
Educator Plan, appropriate to the new rating.
13) Evaluation Cycle: Formative Evaluation for Two Year Self-Directed Plans Only
A) Educators on two year Self-Directed Growth Educator Plans receive a Formative
Evaluation report near the end of the first year of the two year cycle. The Educator's
performance rating for that year shall be assumed to be the same as the previous
summative rating unless evidence demonstrates a significant change in performance in
which case the rating on the performance standards may change, and the Evaluator may
place the Educator on a different Educator plan, appropriate to the new rating.
B) The Formative Evaluation report provides written feedback and ratings to the
Educator about his/her progress towards attaining the goals set forth in the Educator
Plan, performance on each performance standard and overall, or both.
C) No less than two weeks before the due date for the Formative Evaluation report, which
due date shall be established by the Evaluator with written notice provided to the
Educator, the Educator shall provide to the Evaluator evidence of family outreach and
engagement, fulfillment of professional responsibility and growth, and progress on
attaining professional practice and student learning goals. The educator may also provide
to the evaluator additional evidence of the educator's performance against the four
Performance Standards.
D) The Evaluator shall complete the Formative Evaluation report and provide a copy to
the Educator. All Formative Evaluation reports must be signed by the Evaluator and
delivered face to-face, by email or to the Educator's school mailbox or home.
E) Upon the request of either the Evaluator or the Educator, the Evaluator and the
Educator will meet either before or after completion of the Formative Evaluation
Report.
F) The Educator may reply in writing to the Formative Evaluation report within 5 school
days of receiving the report.
G) The Educator shall sign the Formative Evaluation report within 5 school days of
receiving the report. The signature indicates that the Educator received the Formative
Evaluation report in a timely fashion. The signature does not indicate agreement or
disagreement with its contents.
H) As a result of the Formative Evaluation report, the Evaluator may change the
activities in the Educator Plan.
I) If the rating in the Formative Evaluation report differs from the last summative
rating the Educator received, the Evaluator may place the Educator on a different
47
===PAGE 50===
Educator Plan, appropriate to the new rating.
14) Evaluation Cycle: Summative Evaluation
A) The evaluation cycle concludes with a summative evaluation report. For Educators on
a one or two year Educator Plan, the summative report must be written and provided to
the educator by June (see evaluation timeline for date).
B) The Evaluator determines a rating on each standard and an overall rating based
on the Evaluator's professional judgment, an examination of evidence against the
Performance Standards and evidence of the attainment of the Educator Plan
goals.
C) The professional judgment of the primary evaluator shall determine the overall
summative rating that the Educator receives.
D) For an educator whose overall performance rating is exemplary or proficient and
whose impact on student learning is low, the evaluator's supervisor shall discuss and
review the rating with the evaluator and the supervisor shall confirm or revise the
educator's rating. In cases where the superintendent serves as the primary evaluator, the
superintendent's decision on the rating shall not be subject to review.
E) The summative evaluation rating must be based on evidence from multiple
categories of evidence. MCAS Growth scores shall not be the sole basis for a
summative evaluation rating.
F) To be rated proficient overall, the Educator shall, at a minimum, have been rated
proficient on the Curriculum, Planning and Assessment and the Teaching All Students
Standards of Effective Teaching Practice.
G) No less than four weeks before the due date for the Summative Evaluation report,
which due date shall be established by the Evaluator with written notice provided to the
Educator, the Educator will provide to the Evaluator evidence of family outreach and
engagement, fulfillment of professional responsibility and growth, and progress on
attaining professional practice and student learning goals. The educator may also
provide to the evaluator additional evidence of the educator's performance against the
four Performance Standards.
H) The Summative Evaluation report should recognize areas of strength as well as
identify recommendations for professional growth.
I) The Evaluator shall deliver a signed copy of the Summative Evaluation report to the
Educator face-to-face, by email or to the Educator's school mailbox or home no later
than June (see evaluation timeline for date.
J The Evaluator shall meet with the Educator rated needs improvement or
unsatisfactory to discuss the summative evaluation. The meeting shall occur by June
48
===PAGE 51===
(see evaluation timeline).
K) The Evaluator may meet with the Educator rated proficient or exemplary to
discuss the summative evaluation, if either the Educator or the Evaluator requests
such a meeting, the meeting shall occur by June (see evaluation timeline).
L) Upon mutual agreement, the Educator and the Evaluator may develop the
Self-Directed Growth Plan for the following two years during the meeting on the
Summative Evaluation report.
M) The Educator shall sign the final Summative Evaluation report by (see evaluation
timeline). The signature indicates that the Educator received the Summative Evaluation
report in a timely fashion. The signature does not indicate agreement or disagreement
with its contents.
N) The Educator shall have the right to respond in writing to the summative evaluation
which shall become part of the final Summative Evaluation report.
O) A copy of the signed final Summative Evaluation report shall be filed in the
Educator's personnel file.
15) Educator Plans - General
A) Educator Plans shall be designed to provide Educators with feedback for
improvement, professional growth, and leadership; and to ensure Educator
effectiveness and overall system accountability. The Plan must be aligned to the
standards and indicators and be consistent with district and school goals.
B) The Educator Plan shall include, but is not limited to:
i) At least one goal related to improvement of practice tied to one or more
Performance Standards;
ii) At least one goal for the improvement the learning, growth and achievement of the
students under the Educator's responsibility;
iii) An outline of actions the Educator must take to attain the goals and benchmarks to
assess progress. Actions must include specified professional development and learning
activities that the Educator will participate in as a means of obtaining the goals, as well
as other support that may be suggested by the Evaluator or provided by the school or
district. Examples may include but are not limited to coursework, self-study, action
research, curriculum development, study groups with peers, and implementing new
programs.
C) It is the Educator's responsibility to attain the goals in the Plan and to participate in
any trainings and professional development provided through the state, district, or other
providers in accordance with the Educator Plan.
49
===PAGE 52===
16) Educator Plans: Developing Educator Plan
A) The Developing Educator Plan is for all Educators without PTS, and, at the
discretion of the Evaluator, Educators with PTS in new assignments.
B) The Educator shall be evaluated at least annually.
17) Educator Plans: Self-Directed Growth Plan
A) A Iwo-year Self-Directed Growth Plan is for those Educators with PTS who have an
overall rating of proficient or exemplary, and after 2013-2014 whose impact on student
learning is moderate or high. A formative evaluation report is completed at the end of
year 1 and a summative evaluation report at the end of year 2.
B) A One-year Self-Directed Growth Plan is for those Educators with PTS who have an
overall rating of proficient or exemplary, and after 2013-2014 whose impact on student
learning is low. In this case, the Evaluator and Educator shall analyze the discrepancy
between the summative evaluation rating and the rating for impact on student learning
to seek to determine the cause(s) of the discrepancy.
18) Educator Plans: Directed Growth Plan
A) A Directed Growth Plan is for those Educators with PTS whose overall rating
is needs improvement.
B) The goals in the Plan must address areas identified as needing improvement as
determined by the Evaluator.
C) The Evaluator shall complete a summative evaluation for the Educator at the end of the
period determined by the Plan, but at least annually, and in no case later than June 10th.
D) For an Educator on a Directed Growth Plan whose overall performance rating is at
least proficient, the Evaluator will place the Educator on a Self-Directed Growth
Plan for the next Evaluation Cycle.
E) For an Educator on a Directed Growth Plan whose overall performance rating is not
at least proficient, the Evaluator will rate the Educator as unsatisfactory and will place
the Educator on an Improvement Plan for the next Evaluation Cycle.
19) Educator Plans: Improvement Plan
A) An Improvement Plan is for those Educators with PTS whose overall rating is
unsatisfactory.
B) The parties agree that in order to provide students with the best instruction, it may be
necessary from time to time to place an Educator whose practice has been rated as
unsatisfactory on an Improvement Plan of no fewer than 45 school days and no more
than one school year. In the case of an Educator receiving a rating of unsatisfactory near
50
===PAGE 53===
the close of one school year, the Improvement Plan may include activities that occur
during the summer before the next school year begins.
C) The Evaluator must complete a summative evaluation for the Educator at the
end of the period determined by the Evaluator for the Plan.
D) An Educator on an Improvement Plan shall be assigned a Supervising Evaluator (see
definitions). The Supervising Evaluator is responsible for providing the Educator with
guidance and assistance in accessing the resources and professional development
outlined in the Improvement Plan. The primary evaluator may be the Supervising
Evaluator.
E) The Improvement Plan shall define the problem(s) of practice identified through the
observations and evaluation and detail the improvement goals to be met, the activities
the Educator must take to improve and the assistance to be provided to the Educator by
the district.
F) The Improvement Plan process shall include:
i) Within ten school days of notification to the Educator that the Educator is being
placed on an Improvement Plan, the Evaluator shall schedule a meeting with the
Educator to discuss the Improvement Plan. The Evaluator will develop the
Improvement Plan, which will include the provision of specific assistance to the
Educator.
ii) The Educator may request that a representative of the Employee
Organization/Association attend the meeting(s).
ili) If the Educator consents, the Employee Organization/Association will be informed
that an Educator has been placed on an Improvement Plan.
G) The Improvement Plan shall:
i Define the improvement goals directly related to the performance standard(s) and/or
student learning outcomes that must be improved;
ii) Describe the activities and work products the Educator must complete as a
means of improving performance;
iii) Describe the assistance that the district will make available to the Educator; iv
Articulate the measurable outcomes that will be accepted as evidence of
improvement;
v) Detail the timeline for completion of each component of the Plan, including at a
minimum a mid-cycle formative assessment report of the relevant standard(s) and
51
===PAGE 54===
indicators);
vi) Identify the individuals assigned to assist the Educator which must include
minimally the Supervising Evaluator; and,
vii) Include the signatures of the Educator and Supervising Evaluator.
H) A copy of the signed Plan shall be provided to the Educator. The Educator's
signature indicates that the Educator received the Improvement Plan in a timely
fashion. The signature does not indicate agreement or disagreement with its contents.
I) Decision on the Educator's status at the conclusion of the Improvement Plan.
i) All determinations below must be made no later than June 1. One of three decisions
must be made at the conclusion of the Improvement Plan:
(a) If the Evaluator determines that the Educator has improved his/her practice to the
level of proficiency, the Educator will be placed on a Self-Directed Growth Plan.
(b) In those cases where the Educator was placed on an Improvement Plan as a result of
his/her summative rating at the end of his/her Directed Growth Plan, if the Evaluator
determines that the Educator is making substantial progress toward proficiency, the
Evaluator shall place the Educator on a Directed Growth Plan.
(c) In those cases where the Educator was placed on an Improvement Plan as a result of
his/her Summative rating at the end of his/her Directed Growth Plan, if the Evaluator
determines that the Educator is not making substantial progress toward proficiency, the
Evaluator shall recommend to the superintendent that the Educator be dismissed.
(d) If the Evaluator determines that the Educator's practice remains at the level of
unsatisfactory, the Evaluator shall recommend to the superintendent that the Educator be
dismissed.
20. Timelines - Shown at the end of Appendix C
21. Career Advancement
A) In order to attain Professional Teacher Status, the Educator should achieve ratings of
proficient or exemplary on each Performance Standard and overall. A principal
considering making an employment decision that would lead to PTS for any Educator
who has not been rated proficient or exemplary on each performance standard and overall
on the most recent evaluation shall confer with the superintendent by May 1. The
principal's decision is subject to review and approval by the superintendent.
B) In order to qualify to apply for a teacher leader position, the Educator must have
had a Summative Evaluation performance rating of proficient or exemplary for at least
the previous two years.
52
===PAGE 55===
C) Educators with PTS whose summative performance rating is exemplary and, after
2013-14 whose impact on student learning is rated moderate or high, shall be
recognized and rewarded with leadership roles, promotions, additional compensation,
public commendation or other acknowledgement as determined by the district through
collective bargaining where applicable.
22. Rating Impact on Student Learning Growth
ESE will provide model contract language and guidance on rating educator impact on
student learning growth based on state and district-determined measures of student
learning by July 15, 2012. Upon receiving this model contract language and guidance,
the parties agree to bargain with respect to this matter.
23. Using Student feedback in Educator Evaluation
ESE will provide model contract language, direction and guidance on using student
feedback in Educator Evaluation by June 30, 2013. Upon receiving this model contract
language, direction and guidance, the parties agree to bargain with respect to this
matter.
24. Using Staff feedback in Educator Evaluation
ESE will provide model contract language, direction and guidance on using staff
feedback in Administrator Evaluation by June 30, 2013. Upon receiving this model
contract language, direction and guidance, the parties agree to bargain with respect to
this matter.
25. Transition from Existing Evaluation System
A) The parties may agree that 50% or more of Educators in the district will be
evaluated under the new procedures at the outset of this Agreement, and 50% or fewer
will be evaluated under the former evaluation procedures for the first year of
implementation of the new procedures in this Agreement.
B) The parties shall agree on a process for identifying the Educator Plan that each
Educator will be placed on during the Educator's first year being evaluated under the new
procedures, providing that Educators who have received ratings of unsatisfactory or its
equivalent in the prior year will be placed on Self-Directed Growth or Improvement Plans
at the sole discretion of the Superintendent.
C) The parties agree that to address the workload issue of Evaluators, during the first
evaluation cycle under this Agreement in every school or department, the names of the
Educators who are being placed on Self-directed Growth Plans shall be literally or
figuratively "put into a hat." The first fifty (50) percent drawn shall be on a 1-year
Self-directed Growth Plan and the second fifty (50) percent shall be on a 2-year Plan.
C) The existing evaluation system will remain in effect until the provisions set forth in
53
===PAGE 56===
this Article are implemented. The relevant timeframe for adopting and implementing
new systems is set forth in 603 CMR 35.11(1).
26. General Provisions
A) Only Educators who are licensed may serve as primary evaluators of Educators.
B) Evaluators shall not make negative comments about the Educator's performance, or
comments of a negative evaluative nature, in the presence of students, parents or other
staff, except in the unusual circumstance where the Evaluator concludes that s/he must
immediately
and directly intervene. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to limit an administrator's
ability to investigate a complaint, or secure assistance to support an Educator.
C) The superintendent shall ensure that Evaluators have training in supervision and
evaluation, including the regulations and standards and indicators of effective teaching
practice promulgated by ESE (35.03), and the evaluation Standards and Procedures
established in this Agreement.
D) Should there be a serious disagreement between the Educator and the Evaluator
regarding an overall summative performance rating of unsatisfactory, the Educator may
meet with the Evaluator's supervisor to discuss the disagreement. Should the Educator
request such a meeting, the Evaluator's supervisor must meet with the Educator. The
Evaluator may attend any such meeting at the discretion of the superintendent.
D) The parties agree to establish a joint labor-management evaluation team which shall
review the evaluation processes and procedures annually through the first three years of
implementation and recommend adjustments to the parties.
E) Violations of this article are subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures. The
arbitrator shall determine whether there was substantial compliance with the totality of
the evaluation process. When the evaluation process results in the termination or
non-renewal of an Educator, then no financial remedy or reinstatement shall issue if there
was substantial compliance.
+
EVALUATION TIMELINE: Non-Professional Teacher Status
uperintendent, principal or designee meets with evaluators and educators t
xplain the evaluation proces
COMPLETED
BY:
September 15
54
===PAGE 57===
Evaluating fores comes is id is ducate osit pit 0 pm 28 and.
Educator submits self-assessment and proposed goals
(MA DESE 1; 2A goal form)
Evaluator meets with educators in teams or individually to establish educator plans.
Educator plan may have been established at summative evaluation report meeting in
the previous school year (MA-DESE 2B plan form)
Educator submits plans incorporating any feedback (MA-DESE 2B plan form)
Evaluator approves educator plans
Evaluator should complete first observation of each
educator (unannounced observation form)
Educators in their first 3 years in the district will meet with their evaluator and if
desired, their mentor, at the mid-way point of the school year. A targeted
conversation/sharing of work around power standards will take place at this meeting.
This meeting, its notes and observations will serve as the basis for the formative
September
30 - October
16
October 16
October 16-
Nov 3
November 3
November 13
November 17
December 18
anuary 1:
Evaluator should complete mid-cycle formative assessment reports for educators on
one-year plans. (MA-DESE 4A Formative Assessment Report)
Evaluator holds formative assessments meetings if requested by either evaluator or
educator
Educator; after review with their mentor, submits final evidence on all goals and
priority elements. (Artifact Cover Page I, II, III, IV; goals forms)
February 9
February 16
Evaluator completed summative evaluation report. (MA-DESE 5 Summative
evaluation report)
April 29
(except for SLG
which will be
due on May 31)
June 4 (or five
days prior to last
day of school)
June 4-11
Evaluator meets with educators whose overall summative
evaluation ratings are needs improvement or are unsatisfactory
Evaluator meets with educators whose ratings are proficient or exemplary at
request of evaluator or educator
June 4-11
Educator signs summative evaluation report and adds response, if any, within 5
school days of receipt
Last day of
school
55
===PAGE 58===
EVALUATION TIMELINE:
Professional Teacher Status on 1 year plan
Superintendent, principal or designee meets with evaluators and educators to
explain the evaluation process
Evaluator meets with the educator to assist in the self-assessment and goal setting
process. Goals must include data that can be collected prior to April 28.
Educator submits self-assessment and proposed goals. (MA-DESE 1; 2A goal form)
If choosing a different goal from the suggested district-wide goal it will need to b
ubmitted by November 1 to allow meeting/discussion with evaluator if needed
Evaluator meets with educators in teams or individually to establish educator plans.
Educator plan may have been established at a summative evaluation report meeting in
the previous school year. (MA-DESE 2B plan form)
Educator submits plans incorporating any feedback. (MA-DESE 2B plan form)
Evaluator approves educator plans.
Evaluator should complete the first observation of each
educator. (unannounced observation form)
Educators who are on a one-year directed growth/improvement plan, after review with
their mentors if applicable, submits mid-cycle evidence on all goals and priority
Educators who are on a one-year plan not due to a directed growth/need for
improvement (i.e. significant role change), engage in a targeted conversation/sharing of
work around goals/power standards with the evaluator. This meeting, its notes and
observations will serve as the basis for the formative assessment.
Evaluators should complete mid-cycle formative assessment reports for educators on
one-year plans. (MA-DESE 4A formative assessment report)
Evaluator holds formative assessments meetings if requested by either evaluator or
educator
Educator submits final evidence on all goals and priority
elements. (Artifact Cover Page I, II, III, IV; goals forms)
COMPLETED
BY:
September 15
September
30 - October
16
October 16
October 16 -
November 3
November 3
November 13
November 17
December 18 -
January 12
February 9
February 16
Evaluator completed summative evaluation report. (MA-DESE 5)
Evaluator meets with educators whose overall summative evaluation ratings are
needs improvement or are unsatisfactory
April 29
except for SLI
hich will be due
on May 31)
June 4
June 4-11
56
===PAGE 59===
Evaluator meets with educators whose ratings are proficient or exemplary at
request of evaluator or educator
Educator signs summative evaluation report and adds response, if any, within
school days of receipt
EVALUATION TIMELINE:
Professional Teacher Status with 2 year
plans (FORMATIVE - year 1)
Superintendent, principal or designee meets with evaluators and educators
to explain the evaluation process
Educator submits self-assessment and proposed goals (MA DESE 1; 2A
goal form)
Evaluator meets with educators in teams or individually to discuss goals
and support educator plans
Educator complete educator plans (MA-DESE 2B plan form)
Evaluator complete unannounced observations)
Educators completing formative evaluations (end of year I) submit work on
goals and priority elements to be agreed upon by the educator and evaluator.
(Artifact Cover Page I,II,III,IV; goals forms)
Evaluator completes formative evaluation report (MA-DESE 4B)
Evaluator conducts formative evaluation meeting, if any
Educator signs formative evaluation report and adds response, if any,
within 5 school days of receipt
57
June 4-11
Last day of
school
COMPLETED BY:
September 15
October 16
October 16 - November 3
November 13
Any time during the
2-year evaluation
cycle
May 10
(except for SL.G which will
be due on May 31)
5 days prior to the
last day of the school
year
By last day of the
school year
By last day of school
year
===PAGE 60===
EVALUATION TIMELINE:
Professional Teacher Status with 2 year
plans (SUMMATIVE - year 2)
Superintendent, principal or designee meets with evaluators and educators to
explain the evaluation process
Educator submits self-assessment (MA-DESE 1)
If educator goals remains the same as in year 1, write "same goal" in
MA-DESE 2A form
If educator goal has changed from year 1, complete full
MA-DESE 2A form
valuator meets with educators in teams or individually to discus
nd support educator plan
Educator complete educator plans (MA-DESE 2B)
Evaluator complete unannounced observation(s)
Educators completing summative evaluations submit work pertaining to all
goals and priority elements (Artifact Cover Page I,II,III,IV; goals forms)
Evaluator completes summative evaluation report (MA-DESE 5)
Evaluator conducts summative evaluation meeting, if any
Educator signs summative evaluation report and adds response, if any,
within 5 school days of receipt
COMPLETED BY:
September 15
October 16
October 16 -
November 3
November 13
Any time during the
2-year evaluation
April 29
(except for SLG which
will be due on May 31)
June 6
June 6-11
By last day of
school year
===PAGE 61===
Coaches Stipends
There will be a determination made by the (Superintendent or designee) to hire additional
coaching assistants based on student participation. In the event that an assistant coach is
not listed on the salary schedule, then the assistant will be hired at 60% of the first step of
the head coaching position in that particular sport.
Effective 2024-2025 School Year
Step 2
Step 3
2.50% Step 1
Football (Head Coach)
Football (Assistant)
Freshman Football
Field Hockey (Varsity)
Field Hockey (Jr. Varsity)
Soccer (Varsity)
Soccer (Junior Varsity)
Cross Country
Basketball (Varsity)
Basketball (Jr. Varsity)
Basketball (Freshman)
Unified Basketball
Hockey (Varsity)
Hockey (Jr. Varsity)
Baseball (Varsity)
Baseball (Jr. Varsity)
Softball (Varsity)
Softball (Jr. Varsity)
Winter Indoor Track
(Varsity)
Winter Indoor Track (Jr.
Varsity)
Spring Track (Varsity)
Spring Track (Jr. Varsity)
Unified Spring Track
Winter Weight
Summer Weight
Golf
Tennis
Fall Cheerleading
Winter Cheerleading
LMS Head Football
Coach
Step 4
Step 5
$4,472
$2,209
$1,535
$2,652
$1,736
$2,652
$1,736
$2,652
$3,095
$2,182
$1,535
$1,061
$3,095
$2,182
$2,652
$1,736
$2,652
$1,736
$2,652
$1,535
$2,652
$1,736
$1,061
$1,535
$1,535
$1,736
$1,736|
$1,535
$1,535
$1,535|
$4,993
$2,545
$1,736
$3,070
$1,938
$3,070
$1,938
$3,070
$3,613
$2,443
$1,736
$1,228
$3,613
$2,443
$3,070
$1,938
$3,070
$1,938
$3,070
$1,736
$3,070
$1,938
$1,228
$1,736
$1,736
$1,938
$1,938
$1,736
$1,736
$1,736|
$5,519
$2,864
$1,938
$3,508
$2,139
$3,508
$2,139
$3,508
$4,135
$2,705
$1,938
$1,403
$4,135
$2,705
$3,508
$2,139
$3,508
$2,139
$3,508
$1,938
$3,508
$2,139
$1,403
$1,938
$1,938
$2,139
$2,139
$1,938
$1,938
$1,938
$6,017
$3,361
$2,439
$4,009
$2,638
$4,009
$2,638
$4,009
$4,634
$3,206
$2,439
$1,603
$4,634
$3,206
$4,009
$2,638
$4,009
$2,638
$4,009
$2,439
$4,009
$2,638
$1,603
$2,439
$2,439
$2,593
$2,593
$2,439
$2,439
$2,439
$6,651
$3,916
$2,963
$4,581
$3,170
$4,581
$3,170
$4,581
$5,226
$3,752
$2,963
$1,832
$5,226
$3,752
$4,581
$3,170
$4,581
$3,170
$4,581
$2,963
$4,581
$3,170
$1,832
$2,963
$2,963
$3,123
$3,123
$2,963
$2,963
$2,963
59
===PAGE 62===
LMS Asst Football
Coach
LMS Field Hockey
Coach
LMS Cross Country
Coach
LMS Spring Coach
LMS Cheerleading
Coach
LMS Basketball Coach
4.0%
Football (Head Coach)
Football (Assistant)
Freshman Football
Field Hockey (Varsity)
Field Hockey (Jr. Varsity)
Soccer (Varsity)
Soccer (Junior Varsity)
Cross Country
Basketball (Varsity)
Basketball (Jr. Varsity)
Basketball (Freshman)
Unified Basketball
Hockey (Varsity)
Hockey (Jr. Varsity)
Baseball (Varsity)
Baseball (Jr. Varsity)
Softball (Varsity)
Softball (Jr. Varsity)
Winter Indoor Track
(Varsity)
Winter Indoor Track (Jr.
Varsity)
Spring Track (Varsity)
Spring Track (Jr. Varsity)
Unified Spring Track
Winter Weight
Summer Weight
Golf
Tennis
Fall Cheerleading
Winter Cheerleading
LMS Head Football
Coach
Step 1
$1,281
$1,535
$1,550
$1,550
$768
$1,535
$1,484
$1,736
$1,754
$1,754
$869
$1,736
$1,685
$1,938
$1,958
$1,958
$978
$1,938
Effective 2025-2026 School Year
Step 2
Step 3
$4,651
$2,298
$1,596
$2,758
$1,806
$2,758
$1,806
$2,758
$3,219
$2,269
$1,596
$1,103
$3,219
$2,269
$2,758
$1,806
$2,758
$1,806
$5,193
$2,647
$1,806
$3,193
$2,016
$3,193
$2,016
$3,193
$3,757
$2,541
$1,806
$1,277
$3,757
$2,541
$3,193
$2,016
$3,193
$2,016
$5,739
$2,979
$2,016
$3,649
$2,224
$3,649
$2,224
$3,649
$4,300
$2,814
$2,016
$1,459
$4,300
$2,814
$3,649
$2,224
$3,649
$2,224
$2,758
$3,649
$1,596
$2,758
$1,806
$1,103
$1,596
$1,596
$1,806
$1,806
$1,596
$1,596
$1,596|
$3,193|
$1,806
$3,193
$2,016
$1,277
$1,806
$1,806
$2,016
$2,016
$1,806
$1,806
$1,806
60
$2,016
$3,649
$2,224
$1,459
$2,016
$2,016
$2.224
$2,224
$2,016
$2,016
$2,016
$2,185
$2,439
$2,463
$2,463
$1,218
$2,439
$2,709
$2,962
$2,992
$2,992
$1,483
$2,962
Step 4
Step 5
$6,257
$3,496
$2,536
$4,169
$2,743
$4,169
$2,743
$4,169
$4,819
$3,334
$2,536
$1,668
$4,819
$3,334
$4,169
$2,743
$4,169
$2,743
$4,169
$2,536
$4,169
$2,743
51,668
$2,536
$2,536
$2,697
$2,697
$2,536
$2,536
$2,536
$6,917
$4,073
$3,082
$4,764
$3,297
$4,764
$3,297
$4,764
$5,435
$3,902
$3,082
$1,906
$5,435
$3,902
$4,764
$3,297
$4,764
$3,297
$4,764
$3,082
$4,764
$3,297
$1,906
$3,082
$3,082
$3,248
$3,248
$3,082
$3,082
$3,082
===PAGE 63===
LMS Asst Football
Coach
LMS Field Hockey
Coach
LMS Cross Country
Coach
LMS Spring Coach
LMS Cheerleading
Coach
LMS Basketball Coach
$1,333
$1,596
$1,612
$1,612
$799
$1,596
$1,543
$1,806
$1,824
$1,824
$904
$1,806
$1,752
$2,016
$2,036
$2,036
$1,017
$2,016
$2,273
$2,536
$2,562
$2,562
$1,267
$2,536
$2,817
$3,081
$3,111
$3,111
$1,542
$3,081
3.50% Step 1
Football (Head Coach)
Football (Assistant)
Freshman Football
Field Hockey (Varsity)
Field Hockey (Jr. Varsity)
Soccer (Varsity)
Soccer (Junior Varsity)
Cross Country
Basketball (Varsity)
Basketball (Jr. Varsity)
Basketball (Freshman)
Unified Basketball
Hockey (Varsity)
Hockey (Jr. Varsity)
Baseball (Varsity)
Baseball (Jr. Varsity)
Softball (Varsity)
Softball (Jr. Varsity)
Winter Indoor Track
(Varsity)
Winter Indoor Track (Jr.
Varsity)
Spring Track (Varsity)
Spring Track (Jr. Varsity)
Unified Spring Track
Winter Weight
Summer Weight
Golf
Tennis
Fall Cheerleading
Winter Cheerleading
Effective 2026-2027 School Year
Step 2
Step 3
$4,814
$2,378|
$1,652
$2,855
$1,869
$2,855
$1,869
$2,855
$3,331
$2,349
$1,652
$1,142
$3,331
$2,349
$2,855
$1,869
$2,855
$1,869
$2,855
$1,652|
$2,855
$1,869
$1,142
$1,652
$1,652
$1,869
$1,869
$1,652
$1,652
$5,375
$2,740
$1,869
$3,304
$2,087
$3,304
$2,087
$3,304
$3,889
$2,630
$1,869
$1,322
$3,889
$2,630
$3,304
$2,087
$3,304
$2,087
$3,304
$1,869
$3,304
$2,087
$1,322
$1,869
$1,869
$2,087
$2,087
$1,869
$1,869
$5,940
$3,083
$2,087
$3,776
$2,302
$3,776
$2,302
$3,776
$4,451
$2,912
$2,087
$1,510
$4,451
$2,912
$3,776
$2,302
$3,776
$2,302
$3,776
$2,087
$3,776
$2,302
$1,510
$2,087
$2,087
$2,302
$2,302
$2,087
$2,087
Step 4
Step 5
$6,476
$3,618
$2,625
$4,315
$2,840
$4,315
$2,840
$4,315
$4,988
$3,451
$2,625
$1,726
$4,988
$3,451
$4,315
$2,840
$4,315
$2,840
$4,315
$2,625
$4,315
$2,840
$1,726
$2,625
$2,625
$2,791
$2,791
$2,625
$2,625
$7,159
$4,215
$3,190
$4,931
$3,412
$4,931
$3,412
$4,931
$5,625
$4,039
$3,190
$1,972
$5,625
$4,039
$4,931
$3,412
$4,931
$3,412
$4,931
$3,190
$4,931
$3,412
$1,972
$3,190
$3,190
$3,362
$3,362
$3,190
$3,190
61
===PAGE 64===
LMS Head Football
Coach
LMS Asst Football
Coach
LMS Field Hockey
Coach
LMS Cross Country
Coach
LMS Spring Coach
LMS Cheerleading
Coach
LMS Basketball Coach
$1,652
$1,379
$1,652
$1,669
$1,669
$827
$1,652
School
Activity
LHS
LHS
LHS
TIER I
Senior Class Advisor
Student Council
TIER II
Musical Director
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LMS
Marching Band Director
All School Play
Junior Class Advisor
After- school Detention
Science Olympiad
Science Olympiad
ILMS
LMS
THES
Student Government (6-8)
Yearbook
Nature's classroom
Coordinator
$1,869
$1,597
$1,869
$1,887
$1,887
$936
$1,869
$2,087
$1,814
$2,087
$2,107
$2,107
$1,053
$2,087
$2,625
$2,352
$2,625
$2,651
$2,651
$1,311
$2,625
$3,190
$2,916
$3,188
$3,220
$3,220
$1,596
$3,188
2024-2025
2025-2026
2026-2027
2,477
2,477
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
1,939
2,576
2,576
2,666
2,666
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,016
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
2,087
62
===PAGE 65===
District
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
District
LHS
ILHS
LHS
LMS
LMS
After-school Music Lesson
Program Coordinator
TIER III
Sophomore Class Advisor
1,939
Freshman Class Advisor
1,508
1,508
Marching Band Assistant
Director
Jazz Band Director
1,508
1,508
After-school Chorus (Acapella
Director)
National Honor Society
Multicultural Festival Director
TIER IV
1,508
1,508
1,508
Competitive Class Play
(Sophomore)
Competitive Class Play
(Junior)
Competitive Class Play
(Senior)
Jazz Band Director (LMS)
Washington DC Trip
Coordinator
TIER V
1,127
1,127
1,127
1,127
1,127
63
2,016
1,568
1,568
1,568
1,568
1,568
1,568
1,568
1,172
1,172
1,172
1,172
1,172
2,087
1,623
1,623
1,623
1,623
1,623
1,623
1,623
1,213
1,213
1,213
1,213
1,213
===PAGE 66===
LHS
Mock Trial
LHS
LHS
LHS
World Hunger Task Force
Percussion Director
Color Guard Director
THES
883
883
883
883
883
Girls on the run (per season)
TIER VI
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LMHS
LMS
LMS
LMS
LMS
LHS
LHS
Outdoor Adventure Club
Art Club
French Club
Spanish Club
Best Buddies
Gaming Club
Latin Club
Gaming Club
Math Team
Best Buddies
Ski Club
TIER VII
Knights Herald
SADD
757
757
757
757
757
757
757
757
757
757
757
630
630
LHS
LHS
LMS
Yearbook Accounts Manager
Photography Club
Photography Club
630
630
630
64
918
918
918
918
918
787
787
787
787
787
787
787
787
787
787
787
655
655
655
655
655
951
951
951
951
951
815
815
815
815
815
815
815
815
815
815
815
678
678
678
678
678
===PAGE 67===
LMS
LMS
LMS
THES
Newspaper / Literary
Magazine
Art Club
Drama Club
Drama Club
THES
THES
Newspaper/ Literary Magazine
Art Club
Kindergarten Screening
Primary School Coordinator
District
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
LHS
ILHS
LHS
LMS
LHS
IMS
LMS
THES
Curriculum Task Force *
TIER VIII
Science Club
Math Club
Anime Club
SWAT club
Talent Show
Current Events
Big Sibs Club
Big Sibs Club
GSA Club
GSA Club
Talent Show
Talent Show
630
630
630
630
630
630
630
630
504฿
504
504
504
504
504
504
504
504
504
504
504
LHS
Service Learning Club
LMS
Service Learning Club
THES
Service Learning Club
504
504
504
65
655
655
655
655
655
655
655
655
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
524
678
678
678
678
678
678
678
678
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
543
===PAGE 68===
Primary School Service Learning Club
THES
Coding Club
THES
Rubix Cube Club
TIER IX
THES
Spelling Bee Coordinator
THES
After school Instructor*
Primary School After school Instructor *
SYSTEM TIER
District
Mentor Coordinator
504
504
504
215
215
215
6,006
524
524
524
224
224
224
6,246
543
543
543
232
232
232
6,465
District
Graduate Course Developer
with Instruction
District
District
LMHS
Graduate Course Instructor
Mentor Team Member *
Committee Chair, NEASC **
LMHS
Standard Chairs, NEASC **
LMHS
District
District
LHS
Clerks & Editors, NEASC **
ELL Coordinator
Nursing Coordinator
Department
Heads/Instructional
Leaders *
4,659
3,727
2,208
1,201
721
721
2,113 base +
230/person
2,113 base +
230/person
2198 base+
239/person
2198 base+
239/person
2,113 base +
230/person
2198 base+
239/person
66
4,845
3,876
2,296
1,249
750
750
2275 base +
247/person
2275 base +
247/person
2275 base +
247/person
5,015
4,012
2,377
1,293
776
776
===PAGE 69===
LMS
Teacher Support Team RTI *
THES
Teacher Support Team RTI *
Primary School Teacher Support Team RTI*
Early Childhood & Preschool
Primary School Process Coordinator
District
Webmaster
LHS
Webmaster
LMS
Webmaster
THES
Webmaster
Primary School Webmaster
539
754
754
3,231
1,616
1,616
1,077
1,077
1,077
LHS
Technology Support (Power
school)
1,077
LMS
THES
Technology Support (Power
school)
Technology Support
Primary School Technology Support
1,077
1,077
1,077
District
Wellness Advisory Council
Chairperson
1,077
District
Diversity Advisory Council
Chairperson
District
District
Process Coordinators *
Title 1 Grant Manager
1,077
3,231
3,231
67
560
784
784
3,360
1,680
1,680
1,120
1,120
1,120
1,120
1,120
1,120
1,120
1,120
1,129
3,360
3,360
580
812
812
3,478
1,739
1,739
1,159
1,159
1,159
1,159
1,159
1,159
1,159
1,159
1,159
3,478
3,478
===PAGE 70===
District
Curriculum Content Liaisons
LMS
Curriculum Core Lead
Teachers
District
Professional Development
Committee
LMS
Building Leadership Team*
THES
Building Leadership Team *
Primary School Building Leadership Team *
LMS
Dean of Students
District
Google apps and Technology
Integration Coordinator
THES &
Primary
After school Activities Program
Coordinator (per session)
ILHS
Saturday Detention (per day)
* Represents a Multiple Position Stipend
** Overrides the contract language
District
Literacy Team
754
1,077
538
1,292
1,292
1,292
5,385
2,154
269
75
Early Childhood Literacy
Primary School Support Team
District
Curriculum Task Force
Coordinator
538
1,293
5,385
68
784
1,120
560
1,344
1,344
1,344
5,601
2,240
280
78
560
1,344
5,600
812
1,160
579
1,391
1,391
1,391
5,797
2,319
290
81
579
1,391
5,797
