===PAGE 1===
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR THE LUNUNBURG PARAPROFESSIONAL UNIT
BETWEEN
AFSCME COUNCIL. 93, AFL-CIO, LOCAL 503
AND
THE LUNENBURG SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The Lunenburg School Committee (the "District" or the "Committee") and AFSCME Council 93, Local 503 "the
Union") hereby agree to this memorandum of agreement for the Lunenburg Paraprofessional unit to be in effect
from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2028. Except as modified in this Memorandum, the terms and conditions of
the previous contract will be carried forward into the new contract.
1. Article VI-Compensation
I. Addition to Section 6-1 at end of first sentence as follows:
Beginning in FY26, a salary scale restructure will occur for all paraprofessionals from an hourly wage
previously to salary. Previously, wage columns were assigned to employees based on education and a step
based on experience. The recently settled contract (FY26-FY28) resulted in a restructured salary schedule that
now includes four columns: 1) High School; 2) Associates: 3) Bachelors; 4) Bachelors with License. The
appropriate assignment to a column on the salary schedule will be aligned to the most recent degree attained.
Past experience will govern step placement. Returning employees will advance a step from their placement in
the previous year. Employees will advance a step each July I which is the beginning of the fiscal year.
II. Addition to Section 6-4 at end of paragraph as follows:
Per the salary schedule:
In FY26, an additional step was added to the salary scale of Step 9;
In FY27, an additional step was added to the salary scale of Step 10;
In FY28, an additional step was added to the salary scale of Step 11
III. Revise first sentence in Section 6-10 as follows:
Employees shall have the option to have their pay divided into twenty-two (22) or twenty-six (26) pay cycles.
If an employee wishes to change their payroll election, they must do so by August IS.
IV. Addition of (c) to Section 6-10 as follows:
Employees who use more than their earned accrued time, sick or personal, will have their pay docked in that same
pay period.
Employees whose biweekly salary is insufficient to pay for their regular deductions, (insurances, dues etc.) due to
docked pay, will be required to pay for their missed deductions, either by doubling deductions in the next pay, or if
on an extended leave, by check payable to the Town.
===PAGE 2===
2. Article VIII.-Sick Leave
I. Addition under Section 8-1 as follows:
Accruals for all paraprofessionals including personal time will now be calculated in days rather than hours as calculated
in previous agreements. Paraprofessionals may use their sick and personal time by the hour if needed and deductions will
be based on a 6.5 hour day.
For the district:
Anthony Sculimbrene, School Committee Chair
Laura Brzozoski, School Committee Vice-Chair
Amanda Gilman, Secretary
For the Association:
Jin au
George Yapp, Member
Emily Young, Member
; A. Fatera
• fauna, Superilenten