===PAGE 1===
BlueCross
BlueShield.
MIA-
es communices since 1182
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
ACCESS BLUE
NEW ENGLAND SAVER
MIlA Town of Lunenburg
Plan-Year Deductible: $2,000/$4,000
3:58
TAP INTO YOUR HEALTH PLAN
MyBlue is your online member account that makes
understanding and using your health plan simple.
+V
MYBLUE
MASSACHUSETTS
Track claims
and benefits
Find personalized
care options
View your
member ID card
Get started
Sign in or create an account today. Download the app or visit bluecrossma.org.
This health plan meets Minimum Creditable Coverage Standards for Massachusetts residents that
went into effect January 1, 2014, as part of the Massachusetts Health Care Reform Law.
An Association of Independent Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans
===PAGE 2===
YOUR CARE
This plan gives you the option to go directly to a specialist or any doctor in the
HMO Blue New England network without a referral. Just show your Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Massachusetts ID card and receive care. However, some services
do require authorization. See your benefit description for details.
Primary Care Provider (PCP)
When you enroll in this health plan, you must choose a primary care provider. Be
sure to select a doctor who is accepting you and your family members as new
patients and participates in our network of providers in New England. For children,
you may designate a participating network pediatrician as the PCP.
For a list of participating PCPs or OB/GYN physicians, visit the Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Massachusetts website at bluecrossma.org; consult Find a Doctor
at bluecrossma.com/findadoctor; or call the Member Service number on your
ID card.
If you have trouble choosing a doctor, Member Service can help. They can give
you the doctor's gender, the medical school the doctor attended, and whether
there are languages other than English spoken in the office.
Your provider may also work with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts
regarding Utilization Review Requirements, including Pre-Admission Review,
Concurrent Review and Discharge Planning, Prior Approval for Certain Outpatient
Services, and Individual Case Management. For detailed information about
Utilization Review, see your benefit description.
Your Deductible
Your deductible is the amount of money you pay out-of-pocket
each plan year before you can receive coverage for certain benefits under
this plan. If you are not sure when your plan year begins, contact Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Massachusetts. Your deductible is $2,000 per individual
membership (or $4,000 per family membership). The entire family deductible
must be satisfied before benefits are provided for any one member enrolled
under a family membership.
Your Out-of-Pocket Maximum
Your out-of-pocket maximum is the most that you could pay during a plan year
for deductible, copayments, and coinsurance for covered services. Your
out-of-pocket maximum for medical and prescription drug benefits is $6,450
per member (or $12,900 per family).
Emergency Room Services
In an emergency, such as a suspected heart attack, stroke, or poisoning,
you should go directly to the nearest medical facility or call 911 (or the local
emergency phone number). After meeting your deductible, you pay a copayment
per visit for emergency room services. This copayment is waived if you are
admitted to the hospital or for an observation stay. See the chart for your
cost share.
Telehealth services are covered when the same in-person service would be
covered by the health plan and the use of telehealth is appropriate. Your health
care provider will work with you to determine if a telehealth visit is medically
appropriate for your health care needs or if an in-person visit is required. For a list
of telehealth providers, visit the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts website
at bluecrossma.org. consult Find a Doctor, or call the Member Service number
on your ID card.
Your Virtual Care Team
Your health plan includes an option for a tech-enabled primary care delivery
model where virtual care team covered providers furnish certain covered
services. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for exact
coverage details.
Value Care Offering Coverage
Your cost share may be waived for initial visits for designated in-person and
telehealth office visits for certain outpatient services. These services may
include: primary care provider office visits; mental health or substance use
treatment (including outpatient psychotherapy, patient evaluations, and
medication management visits); chiropractor services; acupuncture services;
physical and/or occupational therapy services; or services rendered by a
dietitian/nutritionist specialist. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for
Service Area
The plan's service area includes all cities and towns in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, State of Rhode Island, State of Vermont, State of Connecticut,
State of New Hampshire, and State of Maine.
When Outside the Service Area
If you are traveling outside the service area and you need urgent or emergency
care, you should go to the nearest appropriate health care facility. You are
covered for the urgent or emergency care visit and one follow-up visit while
outside the service area. See your benefit description for more information.
Dependent Benefits
This plan covers dependents until the end of the calendar month in which
they turn age 26, regardless of their financial dependency, student status, or
employment status. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for exact
coverage details.
===PAGE 3===
Covered Services
Your Cost
Preventive Care
Well-child care exams
Preventive dental for children under age 12 (one visit each six months)
Routine adult physical exams, including related tests
Routine GYN exams, including related lab tests (one per calendar year)
Mental health wellness exams (at least one per calendar year)
Routine hearing exams, including routine tests
Hearing aids (up to $2,000 per ear every 36 months for a member age 21 or younger)
Routine vision exams (one every 24 months)
Family planning services-office visits
Outpatient Care
Emergency room visits
Office or health center visits, when performed by:
• Your PCP, OB/GYN physician, nurse midwife, limited services clinic, or by a physician assistant or
nurse practitioner designated as primary care
• Other covered providers, including a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated as
specialty care
Mental health or substance use treatment
Outpatient telehealth services
• With a covered provider
• With the designated telehealth vendor
Chiropractors' office visits
Acupuncture visits (up to 12 visits per calendar year)
Short-term rehabilitation therapy-physical and occupational (up to 60 visits per calendar year*)
Speech, hearing, and language disorder treatment-speech therapy
Diagnostic x-rays and lab tests
CT scans, MRIs, PET scans, and nuclear cardiac imaging tests
Home health care and hospice services
Oxygen and equipment for its administration
Durable medical equipment-such as wheelchairs, crutches, hospital beds
Prosthetic devices
Surgery and related anesthesia in an office or health center, when performed by:
• Your PCP, OB/GYN physician, nurse midwife, or by a physician assistant or nurse practitioner
designated as primary care
• Other covered providers, including a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated as
specialty care
Surgery and related anesthesia in an ambulatory surgical facility, hospital outpatient department,
or surgical day care unit
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
All charges beyond the maximum after deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
$150 per visit after deductible
(copayment waived if admitted or for an observation stay)
$20 per visit after deductible
$35 per visit after deductible
$20 per visit after deductible
Same as in-person visit
$20 per visit after deductible
$35 per visit after deductible
$35 per visit after deductible
$35 per visit after deductible
$35 per visit after deductible
Nothing after deductible
$125 per category per service date after deductible
Nothing after deductible
Nothing after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible**
20% coinsurance after deductible
$20 per visit*** after deductible
$35 per visit*** after deductible
$250 per admission after deductible
Inpatient Care (including maternity care)
General or chronic disease hospital care (as many days as medically necessary)
Mental hospital or substance use facility care (as many days as medically necessary)
Rehabilitation hospital care (up to 60 days per calendar year)
$500 per admission after deductible
$500 per admission after deductible
$500 per admission after deductible
Skilled nursing facility care (up to 100 days per calendar year)
$500 per admission after deductible
*No visit limit applies when short-term rehabilitation therapy is furnished as part of covered home health care or for the treatment of autism spectrum disorders or Down syndrome.
** Cost share waived for one breast pump per birth, including supplies.
*** Copayment waived for restorative dental services and orthodontic treatment or prosthetic management therapy for members under age 18 to treat conditions of cleft lip and cleft palate.
===PAGE 4===
Covered Services
Prescription Drug Benefits*
At designated retail pharmacies
(up to a 30-day formulary supply for each prescription or refill**
Your Cost
Through the designated mail service or designated retail pharmacy
(up to a 90-day formulary supply for each prescription or refill)**
After deductible
$10 for Tier 1
$25 for Tier 2
$50 for Tier 3
After deductible
$20 for Tier 1
$50 for Tier 2
$110 for Tier 3
Generally, Tier 1 refers to generic drugs; Tier 2 refers to preferred brand-name drugs; Tier 3 refers to non-preferred brand-name drugs.
Cost share may be waived, reduced, or increased for certain covered drugs and supplies.
Get the Most from Your Plan: Visit us at bluecrossma.org or call 1-800-782-3675 to learn about discounts, savings, resources, and special programs
available to you, like those listed below.
Wellness Participation Program
Fitness Reimbursement: a program that rewards participation in qualified fitness
$300 per calendar year per policy
programs or equipment (See your benefit description for details.)
Weight Loss Reimbursement: a program that rewards participation in a qualified
$300 per calendar year per policy
weight loss program See your benefit description for details.)
Mind and Body Wellness Program
Reimbursement for participation in the Mind and Body Wellness Program
$300 per calendar year per policy
(See your benefit description for details.)
S 24/7 Nurse Line: Speak to a registered nurse, day or night, to get immediate guidance and advice. Call 1-888-247-BLUE (2583). No additional charge.
QUESTIONS?
For questions about Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, call 1-800-782-3675,
or visit us online at bluecrossma.org.
Limitations and Exclusions. These pages summarize the benefits of your health care plan. Your benefit description and riders define the full terms and conditions in greater detail. Should any questions
arise concerning benefits, the benefit description and riders will govern. Some of the services not covered are: cosmetic surgery; custodial care; most dental care; and any services covered by workers'
compensation. For a complete list of limitations and exclusions, refer to your benefit description and riders. Note: Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc. administers claims payment only and does
not assume financial risk for claims.
*Registered Marks of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. © 2026 Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc., or Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts HMO Blue, Inc.
004706605(4/26) JB