===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
Members Present:
Member absent:
September 21, 2010
John Romano, Chairperson
Elizabeth Murphy, Member
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member
Susan Szocik, Vice-Chairperson
Sheila Lumi, Member
Also Present:
Eugene Capoccia, Executive Director
Prior to the Board opening the meeting there was a large amount of tenants
present that asked to speak to the Board. Marsha Fregeau asked to speak or
behalf of the residents. She wished to thank the Board for adopting the non
smoking policy. Many of the residents clapped to show appreciation and
support.
Ms. Fregeau also wanted to make the Board aware of the resident's
appe seinets the spoke on that tier take plate in ear k
Housing Authority Staff for the professional matter renovations were taking
place.
Mr. Capoccia then gave the residents an update of the construction plans.
There were some concerns expressed regarding the domestic hot water.
Mr. Capoccia indicated that he would be back to check on the hot water
personally.
The Chair declared a quorum present at 7:00 p.m. and began the meeting.
September 21, 2010 meeting were presented. On a Motion by Elizabeth
Murphy, seconded by Deborah Christen; the minutes were approved as
presented. All were in favor.
===PAGE 2===
The Executive Director provided his report. He presented a contract from
Great Bridge Developers of Lunenburg. He explained the In-Town Landing
Housing Development is seeking to enter into a contract with the Housing
Authority to verify eligibility for 17 of the 65 units. These 17 units are
required to meet the low income eligibility requirements as defined by HUD.
On a motion by Elizabeth Murphy; seconded by Debra Christen the Board
voted to authorize Mr. Capoccia to pay staff in order to accomplish the goal
and a small portion of the fee would go to the Housing Authority.
Mr. Capoccia spoke about the construction. Members of the Board seemed
pleased with the progress that was visible.
Mr. Capoccia then went over the Financial Report. In general he indicated
hat the Housing Authority was ahead of budget. All categories of
'xpenditures were within the budgeted amount and further income was up
by just over $0,000.00 for the first eight months of the year. On a motion by
Elizabeth Murphy and seconded by Deb Christen, the Financial Report was
approved, all in favor.
Then Mr. Capoccia presented the following motions;
RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF
CHANGE ORDER NUMBER ONE IN CONJUNCTION
WITH THE MODERNIZATION WORK
AT THE PEARL BROOK DEVELOPMENT (667-1)
WORK PLAN 1004; DHCD PROJECT NUMBER 162008
Whereas:
Whereas:
Resolution 201005
The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the need to sign a Change
Order Number One in conjunction with the modernization work at
the Pearl Brook Development (667-1) and,
This Change Order Number One will increase the contract by
$24,328.00.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED,
===PAGE 3===
RESOLVED,
SECONDED,
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board of Directors
uthorizes the Chair or the Executive Director to sign the Chang
Order Number One in conjunction with the modernization work
he Pearl Brook Development (667-1) and now being undertake
y the Department of Housing and Community Development an
Motion made by Deborah Christen to authorize the signing of the
Change Order Number One by the Chair or Executive Director ir
conjunction with the modernization work at the Pearl Brook
evelopment (667-1) currently being undertaken by t
unenburg Housing Authority and the Department of Housing at
Elizabeth Murphy seconded the motion, and the motion was passed
unanimously.
Being no further business, on a motion by Deborah Christen, seconded by
Elizabeth Murphy, the Board voted to adjourn the meeting at 8:30 PM. All
were in favor.
