===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
Members Present:
September 20, 2011
Susan Szocik, Chairperson
Elizabeth Murphy, Vice Chair
Amaryllis Leet, Member
Sheila Lumi, Member
Deborah A:H. Christen, Member
Also Present:
Eugene Capoccia, Executive Director
A number of tenants were present. Tenants mentioned obtaining a first aid
kit for the Community Room, which the Executive Director informed had
already been purchased and would be available shortly. Tenants had no
other comments.
At 7:10 p.m. the Chair declared the meeting opened. Minutes of the
July 19, 2011 meeting were presented. On a Motion by Susan Szocik,
seconded by Amaryllis Leet; the minutes were approved as presented. All
were in favor.
The Executive Director provided his report. Mr. Capoccia brought the Board
up to date on the renovations and insurance settlement. The upcoming Pearl
Brook Open House was also discussed and a date of October 20, 2011 was
selected.
The Board brought up concerns from several tenants about pets in the
Community Room. The Board voted to ban all pets from the Community
Room. This motion is in result of tenants requests. Tenants had previously
voiced concerns that due to allergies, tripping over leashes and other
concerns, pets should not be allowed in the community room.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Capoccia then went over the Financial Report. He noted that the
Housing Authority was doing well. Income for the first eight months was up
almost $40,000. The need for operating subsidy was down by more than
$56,000. He indicated that if the Housing Authority continues to do well it
will be ahead of the budgeted projections. On a motion by Sheila Lumi;
seconded by Elizabeth Murphy, the Financial Report was approved, all in
favor.
Then Mr. Capoccia presented the following motion;
RESOLUTION FOR APPLICATION AND CERTIFICATE OF
PAYMENT NUMBER 16 IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE
MODERNIZATION WORK AT PEARL BROOK DEVELOPMENT
(667-1)
DHCD PROJECT 162008, WORK PLAN 1004
Resolution 201116
Whereas:
Whereas:
The Lunenburg Housing Authority has received from the
contractor, Construction Dynamics, a Certificate for
Partial Release of Retainage and Application and
Certificate of Payment Number 16 in conjunction with
the modernization work at Pearl Brook Development
(667-1), and
The amount of payment number 16 is $8,400.00,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED,
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board of
Directors authorizes the Executive Director or Assistant
Executive Director to sign the Certificate for Partial
16, and any future application and certificate of payments
" approval) in conjunction wit
the modernization work now being undertaken by the
===PAGE 3===
RESOLVED,
Department of Housing and Community Development
and the Lunenburg Housing Authority.
Motion made by Elizabeth Murphy to authorize the
Executive Director oï Assistant Executive Director to
sign the Certificate for Partial Release of Retainage and
Certificate of Payment Number 16, and any future
pplication and certificate of payments received prior t
inal Completion (contingent upon the architect's an
DHCD's
approval) in conjunction with the
modernization project currently being undertaken by the
Lunenburg Housing Authority and the Department of
Housing and Community Development.
SECONDED,
Sheila Lumi seconded the motion and the motion was
passed by a unanimous vote.
Mr. Capoccia mentioned the upcoming 14" Annual Holiday Luncheon
invitation from the Bemis Associates Inc.
Being no further business, on a motion by Amaryllis Leet, seconded by
Susan Szocik, the Board voted to adjourn the meeting at 8:45 PM. All were
in favor.
