===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING 
 
January 23, 2014 
 
 
 
Members Present:  Elizabeth Murphy, Chairperson 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Amaryllis Leet, Member 
Paul Doherty, Member 
 
Members Absent:  Sheila Lumi, Member 
 
Also Present:  Peter Proulx, Assistant E.D. 
    Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
     
 
Resident Comments: 
 
The analog equipment for the TV has failed. 
Peter - Three companies no longer work on it.  Comc ast costs about 
$90/month which is a little high.  We are looking for a bundle package. 
 
How are things suppose to work during a snowstorm?  Peter - Keith blows 
the horn, but will wait until Gatsby arrives .  There was one incident where 
Gatsby arrived three hours later (tenants moved cars). 
 
There was a car that was hit.  They were told not t o call police as it was 
private property.   Gatsby is taking responsibility. 
 
Two people didn’t move their cars.  Keith shoveled around them; he 
shouldn’t have to.  Peter – he was probably being nice. 
 
The Chair opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m. and declared a quorum present.   
There were no minutes from the previous meeting; th ey will be available for 
the next meeting. 
 
There was some discussion on the Gatsby contract, e tc.  The board was 
asked when the town stopped sanding?  We will verif y this with Mr. 
Capoccia. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Proulx went over the Director’s Report.  All is  well; fully occupied.  
Year-end financials will be available in February.  Reserves are at 51.81%. 
 
He next went over the facilities report.  Again, we  are at 100% occupancy.  
Same number of work orders as previous month.   
 
There was a good turnout of residents at the Capita l Improvement Plan 
meeting held recently.  Many of the ideas from the residents will be covered 
through the operating budget.  This is a five year plan with a three year 
budget (FY 13/14/15).  Plans for capital improvement are as follows: 
 
•  FY13 – parking lot resurfacing 
•  FY14 – which actually ends June 2014 – camera secur ity system.  No 
more than 16 on the Community Building; to be monitored at LHA. 
•  FY15 – carpet replacement in apartments 
•  FY16/FY17 – kitchen replacements and some common ha lls.  Drafty 
windows in apartments.  FY17 is contingent upon DHCD allocations. 
 
Member Doherty asked how the numbers were determined.  Peter explained.  
Member Doherty asked about the back patio/concrete.   Peter said he was 
looking into that; might have other money available for that. 
 
The following resolution was presented: 
 
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE APPLICATION FOR CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT PLAN – FORMULA FUNDING TO DHCD 
 
Resolution 201401 
 
Whereas:  DHCD will annually provide a given amount  of capital 
development funding through a “formula funding” 
allocation to address deficiencies and deferred 
maintenance issues identified  and, 
 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the ne ed to 
submit an application for Capital Improvement Plan 
(CIP) to DHCD for the years 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 
2017 and, 
 
Whereas:  A meeting was held with the tenants on January 16, 2014 
for their comment and input as required by DHCD. 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2.                            January 23, 2014 
===PAGE 3===
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
 
That the members of the Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Board of Commissioners have reviewed and approved 
the five year Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) Formul a 
Funding for years 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 a s 
presented and further authorize the Executive Direc tor to 
submit the application to DHCD. 
 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Member Doherty to authoriz e the 
Executive Director to submit the application for Ca pital 
Improvement Plan (CIP) Formula Funding, as proposed , 
to DHCD. 
 
SECONDED,  Member Leet seconded the motion, and the motion was  
passed by a unanimous vote. 
 
Mr. Proulx explained the pipe burst of Friday, January 3 
rd .  He showed some 
photos to the board along with a piece of the damag ed pipe.  It was a team 
effort.  The fire department, electrician, Keith, L HA personnel (both office 
and maintenance) all worked together.  Serve Pro ar rived Saturday morning 
at 8:00 a.m.  Tenants either went to stay with a re lative or to a hotel.  
Everyone was back by Monday afternoon except for on e who chose to stay 
with a relative longer and was back in the apartmen t Thursday.  Pizza and 
soda was provided to the displaced tenants in the C ommunity Room.  The 
insurance company was contacted and everything will  be covered except for 
the $1,000 deductible.  Chair Murphy commented that  there seemed to be a 
good response from LHA. 
 
There being no further business; on a motion by Cha ir Murphy, seconded by 
Vice Chair Christen, the meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3.                            January 23, 2014 