===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
September 18, 2014  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     Peter Proulx 
 
Resident Participation: 
 
A. A resident asked what the snow plowing schedule will be.  A meeting will 
be planned in October to have the resident give input on this subject. 
B. A resident asked if the weeds around the sign an d the bank near the entry 
of parking lot could be removed. 
C. A resident asked if the pine trees at the back p arking lot could be cut. 
D. A resident stating that some residents are smoki ng in their apartments. 
E. A resident asked if they will be getting new lig hts. The Executive Director 
stated that the Authority has new LED bulbs that can be given t residents. 
F. A resident stated that the exterior porch lights  are out at Buildings J and K 
G. A resident stated that some residents have had i tems stolen from their 
unlocked cars and suggested that all residents lock their cars. 
H. A resident stated that the grass along the edge of the driveway is dead.  
The executive Director stated that in the spring the Authority will cut out 
the grass along the edge and install mulch. 
I. A resident stated the back parking lot is not ve ry well lit at night. 
J. A resident stated that the development was suppo sed to have an 
emergency generator and thought it had already been purchased. The 
Executive Director stated that when the renovations had been done the 
funds for the generator were removed in order to complete other work 
items. 
===PAGE 2===
K. A resident asked what they should do if the powe r goes out and they do 
not have a car.  The Executive Director stated that should call 911 for 
assistance and another resident stated that the Town has a shelter at 
Turkey Hill that opens for heat. 
L. A resident asked if the pine trees at the back p arking lot will be cut before 
winter.  The Assistant Director stated that he would have an arborist look 
into whether it will make sense to cut the trees. 
M. A resident asked about the requirement for rent recertification paper to be 
submitted to the Authority. The Executive Director stated that it must be 
done once a year and that all resident in Lunenburg get recertified at the 
same time each year. 
N. A resident wanted to thank the Executive Directo r for listening to their 
concerns. 
 
 
 
1. The Chair opened the Meeting at 6:30 p.m. 
 
2. Minutes: 
 
Deborah Christen made a motion to accept the minutes of the June 
19, 2014 Meeting.  Elizabeth Murphy seconded the motion, the 
motion was unanimously approved. 
 
3. The Executive Director presented the Executive D irector’s Report 
All units occupied, tree trimming ongoing, computer budget revision 
and the DHCD budget guidelines were discussed. 
 
4. The Executive Director presented the Financial R eport 
 
Caroline Fortin made a motion to accept the Financial Report as 
submitted, Deborah Christen seconded the motion; the motion was 
unanimously approved. 
 
5. The Assistant Executive Director presented the F acilities Report. 
 
6. Resolutions :   
===PAGE 3===
The Executive Director presented the Revised Income Limits for 
Admission & Fair Market Rents for Continued Occupancy (Public 
Housing Notice 2014-15).  Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to 
accept the Revised Income Limits for Admission & Fair Market Rents 
for Continued Occupancy (Public Housing Notice 2014-15) as 
presented, Caroline Fortin seconded the motion; the motion was 
unanimously approved. 
 
The Executive Director presented the 2014 Budget Certification 
Revision 1 for review.  Deborah Christen made a motion to accept 
the 2014 Budget Certification Revision 1 as presented, Elizabeth 
Murphy seconded the motion; the motion was unanimously 
approved. 
 
 
7. No Other Correspondence. 
 
8. No Resident Participation Requested 
 
Deborah Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 6:50 pm, Elizabeth 
Murphy seconded the motion; the motion was unanimously approved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 