===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
November 20, 2014  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
     Paul Doherty, Member 
     Amaryllis Leet, Member   
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     Peter Proulx, Recording Secretary 
 
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  Should the Community Room be locked.  The Executive  Director said that if 
the residents would like, we can keep it locked at all times.  We will have 
Keith unlock the door and lock it when he leaves. 
•  Parking at back lot – two cars do not pull in all t he way because of pine 
needles; makes it hard for other residents to park safely. 
 
The Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.   
 
Minutes: 
 
Paul Doherty made a motion and Caroline Fortin seco nded, to accept the 
minutes of October 23 
rd .  All in favor, motions passed unanimously. 
The Executive Director Report: 
A.  Update of a resident that moved to the Leominster Summit Program. 
B.  A Lunenburg resident is moving from upstairs to dow nstairs.  The three 
vacancies will be filled shortly.  Rent collection is in very good shape. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Financial Report:   
The Executive Director went over the financial report. 
A.  He compared the ten month statement to the proje cted FY15 budget, 
including a description of the state’s budget guidelines/process.  DHCD only 
issued the guidelines on November 14, 2014.  Althou gh the guidelines are 
out, the signature page for the budget is still not available so signatures will 
be garnered at a future date. 
B.  Reserves are just over $66,000 which is a 71.53% reserve. 
C.  The Executive Director then compared the ten mo nth revenue and 
expenses to the FY15 proposed budget. 
Board members asked questions and made comments on Employee Benefits, 
Insurance and areas that were budgeted more or less than the approved 3%. 
The board and the Executive Director discussed the salary and facilities line items.  
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to accept the financ ial report, Paul Doherty 
seconded and all were in favor, motion passed unanimously. 
The Executive Director gave a full report on Net Me tering.  The Lodestar proposal 
was explained and the board discussed it.  The Exec utive Director provided a 
review of the net metering process including the cr edits that are involved.  The 
Executive Director recommended that the net metering contract does not go over 
70% of the annual electric usage.  The board discus sed the program details.  The 
Executive Director explained that the Lunenburg Hou sing Authority would be 
retaining 25% of the savings.  The board discussed the land to be used and 
transmission requirements. 
Paul Doherty made a motion to approve the net metering contract with Lodestar.  
Deborah Christen seconded the motion; all were in f avor and the motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
The Vice Chair presented the following resolutions: 
 
RESOLUTION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT 
FOR SNOW & ICE REMOVAL 
 
Resolution Number 201407 
 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has reques ted and received 
bids for the removal of snow and ice at 131 White S treet for 
the 2014/2015, 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 seasons with  an 
option for an additional 3 season renewal (see attached list of 
vendors)  and, 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board of Direc tors 
authorizes the Chairman and the Executive Director to award 
and enter into said contract with the lowest respon sible 
bidder, Lakeview Nurseries, 308 Electric Avenue, Lu nenburg, 
MA 01462. 
 
RESOLVED,  Motion made by Caroline Fortin to authorize the awarding and 
signing of any and all appropriate documents in con nection 
with the snow and ice removal contract or the 2014/ 2015, 
2015/2016 and 2016/2017 seasons. 
SECONDED,  Motion was seconded by Paul Doherty and all were in favor.  
 
2015 4001 OPERATING BUDGET 
RESOLUTION 201408 
 
WHEREAS: The Lunenburg Housing Authority is require d by DHCD to 
submit an approved 4001 Operating Budget for State- Aided 
Housing for Fiscal Year 2015 and, 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board authoriz es 
submission of the 4001 Operating Budget for State-A ided 
Housing for Fiscal Year 2015 to the Department of H ousing and 
Community Development, as directed by DHCD and 
recommended by the Executive Director, 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Amaryllis Leet to submit t he 2015 Operating 
Budget for State-Aided Housing of the Lunenburg Hou sing 
Authority to the Department of Housing and Communit y 
Development. 
SECONDED,    Paul Doherty seconded the motion, and the motion was passed 
by a unanimous vote.   
The Executive Director explained the Executive Dire ctor Screening Committee.  
Elizabeth Murphy was appointed to the committee. 
Deborah Christen made a motion to adjourn the meetin g at 7:15 p.m.  Caroline 
Fortin seconded and the meeting was adjourned.  The next meeting will be held in 
January 2015. 
  
 
 
 
 