===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
March 20, 2014  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Amaryllis Leet, Member 
     Sheila Lumi, Member 
     Paul Doherty, Member 
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     Peter Proulx 
 
Resident Participation: 
 
A. A resident requested a status as to the plan for  the planting boxes. The 
 Executive Director replied that the boxes will be replanted this year and 
 that a buffer will be installed between the family  and elderly apartments. 
 
B. A resident asked if it would be possible to use organic materials for 
 pesticide/herbicide and fertilizer treatments or t o have a list of the 
 chemicals that are being used.  The Executive Dire ctor stated that he will 
 look into organic materials and will get informati on on the chemicals being 
 used. 
 
C. A resident noted that John used to water all of the residents planting and 
 wondered if Keith would now be doing that.  The Ex ecutive Director 
 responded that the Director of Facilities Manageme nt would schedule a 
 meeting with all of the residents to discuss plant ing and their management. 
 
D. A resident inquired as to the availability of fu nding to replace kitchen 
 cabinets and flooring.  The Executive Director res ponded that there is 
 funding in place but that it will take some time t o follow State Laws on 
===PAGE 2===
 Procurement before the new cabinets are installed.   The new cabinets 
 would include a cabinet over the refrigerator. 
 
E. A resident noted that the stairways need to be s wept and washed.  A 
 member of the Board suggested an outside company t o do them all at 
 once.  The Executive Director stated that he will follow up to make sure 
 they get cleaned.   
 
F. A resident stated that the exterior doors do not  open or close properly.  
 The Executive Director stated that he will follow up to make sure they are 
 addressed. 
 
1. The Chair opened the Meeting at 6:38 p.m. 
 
2. The Chair allowed the Executive Director to intr oduce Susan Honeycutt 
 from the fee accounting firm of Fenton & Ewald.  S usan Honeycutt 
 reviewed the financial situation of the housing au thority for the fiscal year 
 ending December 31, 2013.  It was stated that the housing authority has 
 never been in this good of a financial condition a nd that for the first time 
 ever a positive balance was achieved in the utilit y accounts.   
 
3. The Executive Director presented the Financial R eport for the period ending 
 February 28, 2014 and reviewed the document with t he Board.  Checks 
 and statements were reviewed and signed.   
 
4. The Chairman discussed the need for hallway clea ning and plantings and 
 suggested a non-profit type approach such as the U nited Way Day of 
 Caring.  
 
5. Resolution 201402 Certification of Compliance wi th State Lead Laws was 
discussed.  Paul Doherty made a motion to approve Resolution 201402,  
the Motion was seconded by Deborah A.H. Christen, the Motion was 
unanimously approved. 
 
6. Resolution 201403 for Accounting Services was di scussed.  Paul Doherty 
made a motion to approve Resolution 201403, the Motion was seconded 
by Sheila Lumi, the Motion was unanimously approved. 
===PAGE 3===
7. Resolution 201404 to Approve Amendment #2 to the  Contract  for Financial 
Assistance between the Lunenburg Housing Authority and the  Department 
of Community and Development 5001 was discussed.  Paul Doherty made a 
motion to approve Resolution 201404, the Motion was seconded by 
Deborah A.H. Christen, the Motion was unanimously approved. 
 
8. The Board reviewed and executed the Year End Fin ancial Statements 
 Certification, the Budget Certification, the Admin istrative Fee Certification 
 and the Highest Salary Certification. 
 
9. No New Business. 
 
10. No Correspondence. 
 
11. The Chair presented the minutes of the January 23, 2014 Monthly Meeting.  
 Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to accept the Minutes as presented, 
 seconded by Paul Doherty; the motion was unanimous ly  approved.  
 
12. Being no further business; on a Motion by Debor ah A.H. Christen, seconded 
 by Paul Doherty, the Meeting adjourned at 7:22 p.m.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 