===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
January 22, 2015  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
     Amaryllis Leet, Member   
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     Peter Proulx, Recording Secretary 
 
Members Absent:   Paul Doherty, Member 
 
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  A resident wanted to know why half a tree was out o n the lawn, branches 
were still there.  Also, residents had asked last w inter for the brick patio to 
be cleared (only one swipe was done); ice not clear ed and someone could 
fall.  The Executive Director/Assistant E.D. said they would look into this.   
•  A resident stated that the new windows are allowing  cold air into the 
apartments.  Assistant E.D. asked residents to call this in as a  work order so 
we can look into the real issue.  
•  A resident asked how much noise other residents hav e to put up with during 
the day.  She stated that the man downstairs is saw ing wood all day long in 
his apartment.  The E.D. asked the resident to call the office or t alk with 
Evelyn (unit in question is A-4).  
•  A resident questioned lights and residents paying i f bulbs go out.  The E.D. 
said it was the tenant’s responsibility for all lig hts in the apartments (ceiling 
and lamps).  He noted that if the tenant had the bu lb, we would put it in for 
them at no charge.  If we buy the bulb, the tenant pays.  
•  A resident stated that 3 out of 4 lights outside at  Building F were out.  
Resident said they called in and also talked to Kei th.  The E.D. asked the 
tenant to call it in and ask for the work order #.  
•  
A resident said that her screen door doesn’t lock; there is nothing there to 
lock onto.  The E.D./Asst. E.D. said to call in for a work orde r and ask for the 
work order #.  
•  A resident stated that the tall light out back some times goes on and off 
(around 9:30 p.m.).  The E.D. said it could possibly be the filament going.  
 
===PAGE 2===
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:50 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the November 20, 2014 meeting were presented; Caroline Fortin    
    made a motion to accept the minutes; Deborah Christen seconded.  All were in     
    favor, the motion passed unanimously. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
The E.D. went over some of the highlights for Lunenburg during his 25 years at  
the Leominster Housing Authority. 
A.  The Community Room was totally renovated. 
B.  A new septic system was installed. 
C.  The development was in deplorable condition, DHCD a warded $1.8M for 
modernization. 
D.  First housing authority to go smoke-free. 
E.  Sprinklers were installed in all buildings. 
F.  During the ice storm of December 2008, staff was on duty. 
G.  During the fire of May 2008, staff was on duty. 
H.  Net metering is moving ahead with two backup sites (Ashburnham/ 
Fitchburg) if Ashby falls through. 
    
4.  Financial Report:   
The Executive Director went over the financial report. 
A.  Year-end financials may be available for the Februa ry meeting (takes 
longer to do).  Usually ask the Fee Accountant to c ome to the board 
meeting yearly during February or March to answer a ny questions from 
the board.  Caroline asked if it is an audited stat ement.  The E.D. said the 
auditor usually does, has been about four years since last done. 
B.  State centralized waiting list coming; two-three months away. 
C.  Pg F2 – 11 months in the reserves are at 68%; prett y good. 
D.  Pg F3 – Rents were budgeted at $360/month; actual w as $368/month.  
Income was budgeted at $422/month; actual was $442/ month (up $12K).  
Total admin was budgeted at $86.90/month; actual wa s $87/month.  
Utilities were budgeted at $157/month; actual was $ 153/month.  Utilities 
were lowered substantially with the new heating system. 
E.  Leominster hired a plumber (to replace a maintenanc e person who 
retired) which saves money for all four housing aut horities.  Next time, 
we will hire an electrician. 
F.  We are up some $47K through the first 11 months. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 2.                                                                            January 22, 2015     
 
===PAGE 3===
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to accept the financ ials.  Amaryllis Leet 
seconded; all were in favor. 
5.  Facilities Report: 
The Assistant E.D. went over the facilities report. 
A.  All units are occupied through the end of December. 
B.  Most work orders are completed within the same day. 
C.  No modernization on-going. 
6.  Resolutions: 
The following resolutions were presented by the Chair: 
 
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE APPLICATION FOR CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT PLAN – FORMULA FUNDING TO DHCD 
 
Resolution 201501 
 
Whereas:  DHCD will annually provide a given amount  of capital 
development funding through a “formula funding” all ocation to 
address deficiencies and deferred maintenance issue s identified  
and, 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the ne ed to submit an 
application for Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to D HCD for 
the years  2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and, 
Whereas:  A meeting was held with the tenants on January 6, 2 015 for 
their comment and input as required by DHCD. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the members of the Lunenburg Housing Authority  Board 
of Commissioners have reviewed and approved the fiv e year 
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) Formula Funding for years 
2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 as presented and fu rther 
authorize the Executive Director to submit the appl ication to 
DHCD. 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 3.                                                                            January 22, 2015     
 
===PAGE 4===
RESOLVED, Motion made by Deborah Christen to author ize the Executive 
Director to submit the application for Capital Improvement 
Plan (CIP) Formula Funding, as proposed, to DHCD. 
 
SECONDED,  Caroline Fortin seconded the motion, and the motion  was 
passed by a unanimous vote. 
RESOLUTION FOR CERTIFICATION OF 2014 COMPLIANCE  
WITH NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR FEDERAL  
AND STATE LEAD PAINT LAWS  
 
Resolution 201502 
 
 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the ne ed to be in 
compliance with notification procedures for Federal  and State 
lead paint laws as follows: 
1.  Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations a t 40 
CFR 745 Subpart F “Disclosure of Known Lead-Based 
Paint and/or Lead-Based Paint Hazards Upon Sale of Lease 
of Residential Property”,  
2.  Massachusetts Department of Public Health Lead Pois oning 
Prevention and Control regulations at 105 CMR 460.725, 
3.  EPA regulations at 40 CFR 745 Subpart E “Residential 
Property Renovation” , and 
4.  Massachusetts Division of Occupational Safety De-le ading 
and Lead-Safe Renovation Regulations at 454 CMR 22.00. 
Whereas: the Lunenburg Housing Authority is maintai ning proper record-
keeping related to such requirements. 
Whereas:  DHCD has mandated that housing authority boards cer tify the 
compliance. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That members of the Lunenburg Housing Authority Boa rd of 
Commissioners certify that the Lunenburg Housing Authority is 
in compliance with notification procedures mentione d above 
and that the Lunenburg Housing Authority is maintai ning 
proper record-keeping related to such requirements for year 
2014. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
===PAGE 5===
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 4.                                                                            January 22, 2015      
RESOLVED, Motion made by Caroline Fortin for certif ication of compliance 
with the notification procedures for Federal and State Lead 
Paint Laws. 
SECONDED,  Elizabeth Murphy seconded the motion, and the motio n was 
passed by a unanimous vote. 
7. Board Members were given information on the Mass NAHRO Board Member 
Certification Program which provided dates and locations of sessions (if members 
were interested in attending). 
 
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to adjourn the meeti ng at 7:30 p.m.  Caroline 
Fortin seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
===PAGE 6===
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 5.                                                                           January 22, 2015      