===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
August 20, 2015  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Amaryllis Leet, Member   
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
        
Also Present:   Peter Proulx, Secretary 
     Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
Members Absent:   Paul Doherty, Member 
       
 
  
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  Board member asked about possibility of installing a power/automatic door 
to the community room.  They witnessed a tenant having difficulty with the 
door.  The E.D. will look into this. 
•  Thank you for light bulb, asked for one, everything lit up now.   
•  When will windows be fixed so they don’t leak, water coming in (lost 
curtains).  The E.D. informed tenants that this was due to ice dams.  Roofs 
and windows should be fine, water could be from the ice dams.  
Resident/Apt A-1 asked about replacing the large windows.  The E.D. noted 
this item will be in next year’s Capital Improvement Plan; he will ask 
DHCD to take a look. 
•  Do we have to pay for pets?  The E.D. stated there was a pet deposit and 40 
pound maximum for dogs.  
Snakes/reptiles allowed?  The E.D. will check into this. 
Dogs as service animals be larger?  The E.D. stated yes, with certification. 
•  How many parking spaces per unit?  One resident uses 3 spaces. 
The E.D. stated one vehicle per unit; he will look into resident that parks 
both a car (#20) and a motorcycle, also has a friend that parks on property. 
•  Please trim bushes at frond door.  The E.D. will talk with Tony to have 
bushes trimmed as needed. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
•  Who cleans community room?  The E.D. replied maintenance cleans the day 
before the meeting; he will discuss with Tony/Keith about cleaning 
community room on regular basis. 
•  Alarms went off – waited 15-20 minutes, then called  911.  Was carbon 
monoxide alarm, told to leave unit; needed new battery. 
•  Dumpster – top left open, people not bagging trash,  side doors can’t always 
be opened.  The E.D. will look into.  
•  Keith said he would ask for new dumpster.  Didn’t pick up for 4-5 days, 
smells.  Can it be cleaned?    Smelly trail when truck leaves too.  Peter – yes, 
cleaned once a year.  
•  Vent behind stove.  Took down to clean, can’t clean it.  The E.D. asked 
tenant call the office for a work order, will send Keith. 
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:40 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the May 21, 2015 meeting were pre sented; amended to change 
last line in Section 4. Financial Report “Paul Dohe rty made a motion” (from 
“Motion made a motion”). Elizabeth Murphy made a mo tion to accept the minutes 
with amendment; Caroline Fortin seconded.  All were  in favor, the motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
A. MART is adding a stop at Pearl Brook. 
B. Board member training – the Inspector General of fice will hold the 
training  
on a Monday or Friday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.  We hav e asked them to come 
to Leominster; at least one board member from each housing authority will 
have to attend (starting in November). 
C. Leominster has leased an additional 1500 sq. ft.  of office space at 90 
Main St.  The Finance and Leased Housing Department s will move into this 
space; we will also gain 10 parking spaces. 
D. With the move, two apartments currently being us ed for office space will 
be converted to fully accessible units. 
E. Sterling Housing Authority held a cookout for it s residents on Saturday, 
July 18 
th , it was well attended.  
F. Fitchburg has adopted a smoke-free policy which will be effective 
September 1 st  at three elderly developments.  Residents will not  be able to 
smoke on their balconies. 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 2.                                                                            August 20, 2015     
 
===PAGE 3===
 
4.  Financial Report (June/July): 
A.  Reserves are at 67%.  Incredible, moving up quickly. 
B.  We may want to think about purchasing an emerge ncy generator through 
reserves or year 3 of capital funding. 
C.  Remodeling kitchen sink, faucet, cabinets.  Als o hall carpets if a tripping 
hazard. 
D.  Page F3 – Bottom line is $10,222.  Utilities ar e over by $10,000.   
E.  We have no vacancies at this time.          
 
Caroline Fortin asked how often the CIP is submitte d.  The E.D. replied every 
year.  He will send a copy of the current CIP to th e board members.  The E.D. 
noted we went out to bid for ice melt.       
 
Elizabeth Murphy asked what the Administrative Other included.  The E.D. replied 
it was a hodge podge of everything, paper, etc.  He will send a list of breakdown to 
the Chair, noted half way through the year we spent $6,000.   
 
Deborah Christen made a motion to accept the financ ials.  Elizabeth Murphy 
seconded; all were in favor. 
 
5.  Facilities Report: 
No report this month, the E.D. apologized. 
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to adjourn the meeti ng at 7:05 p.m.  Amaryllis 
Leet seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 3.                                                                            August 20, 2015     
 
 