===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
March 26, 2015  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Paul Doherty, Member 
     Amaryllis Leet, Member   
         
Also Present:   Peter Proulx, Secretary 
     Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
     Sue Honeycutt, Fenton & Ewald 
 
Members Absent:   Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair  
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
 
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  A resident wanted to know if anyone was ever going to wash the outside 
windows.  She has been here six years on the second  floor.    Peter replied 
that it would be put on the list; possibly with an extension pole Keith could 
do.  
•  A resident asked if next winter the space near the mail boxes could be 
widened. 
•  A resident commented on a pole light in the back parking lot. 
•  A resident had a complaint about her neighbor.  The y have a lot of stuff on 
the porch, people going by her area and her things are being moved.  
Resident said she called Evelyn, but nothing happen ed.  They are partying; 
beer and marijuana and other people present.  Peter said he would ask 
Evelyn to look into this matter.  
•  A resident asked why the community room doors were not always locked; 
deadbolt on back door? 
•  A resident asked if the family units were allowed t o use the laundry room.  
Evelyn was supposed to have sent a letter to the fa milies.  Peter replied he 
will check with Evelyn.  
•  A resident asked if the windows would be fixed next  year.  Peter asked the 
tenant to call him tomorrow.  
 
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:42 p.m.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2. The minutes of the January 22, 2015 meeting were presented; Elizabeth Murphy    
    made a motion to accept the minutes; Paul Doherty seconded.  All were in     
    favor, the motion passed unanimously. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
 A.  DHCD snow initiative – a little extra money to  help with snow removal.   
We had an outside contractor come in to help remove  snow and also 
                          
someone to help shovel.  We received approximately $1400. 
B.  Net metering – Lodestar is moving forward; wait ing for approval from 
the   
      town of Ashby. 
C.  Assistant Executive Director – we are down to t wo finalists who will 
meet   
     with the Leominster H.A. Chair next week.  We then hope to hire 
someone    
     within a few weeks.   
    
4.  Financial Report:   
 Sue Honeycutt (Fenton & Ewald) was here; annually reviews the year-end 
financials with the board.  Sue started by saying L unenburg H.A. did very 
well for 2014.  Reserve balance is $88,000; almost at 62%.  We are moving 
in the right direction.  Housing authorities lose t heir subsidy if reserves go 
over 100%.  One of the big differences in the finan cials is in employee 
benefits (health insurance); last maintenance emplo yee had, current one 
doesn’t.  Everything else looks great, it’s been a good year.  Elizabeth 
Murphy asked about the unrestricted “OPEB” on page 2.  Sue explained the 
funding mechanism for health insurance for employee s.  The board thanked 
Sue for coming in. 
 The Executive Director went over the January 2015 financials.  Reserves 
were at 62.45%; we are in good shape.  Rents were b udgeted at $350/per 
unit per month; actual rents collected were $392. P aul Doherty made a 
motion to accept the financials.  Amaryllis Leet seconded; all were in favor 
 
5.  Facilities Report: 
The  E.D. went over the facilities report. 
A.  All units are occupied through the end of February. 
B.  Most work orders are completed within the same day. 
C.  No modernization on-going.  The capital plan was ap proved by DHCD 
today.  Carpeting/flooring to start soon. 
Elizabeth Murphy asked if there was any permanent d amage to the roof.  Peter 
replied that there was little staining, need repair/painting (6 units). 
 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 2.                                                                            March 26, 2015     
 
 
6.  New Business: 
The following resolution was presented by the Executive Director: 
 
RESOLUTION FOR ACCOUNTING SERVICES 
Resolution 201503 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority requires a  fee accountant to 
assist the agency in maintaining compliance with both State and 
Federal financial requirements and, 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has used t he firm of Fenton, 
Ewald & Associates, P.C. for a number of years and,  
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority is satisfi ed with the 
performance of Fenton, Ewald & Associates, P.C. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
 That the Lunenburg Housing Authority enter into a contract for 
Accounting services with Fenton, Ewald & Associates , P.C. for 
the period January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Elizabeth Murphy to enter into contract for 
accounting services. 
SECONDED,  Paul Doherty seconded the motion, and the motion wa s passed 
by a unanimous vote. 
7.  No other correspondence. 
 
8.  No old business. 
 
9.  No resident participation was requested for this meeting. 
 
Peter presented the year-end certifications to the board; all board members signed. 
 
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to adjourn the meeti ng at 7:12 p.m.  Paul 
Doherty seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 3.                                                                            March 26, 2015     
 
  