===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
October 22, 2015  
 
 
Members Present:   Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chai r 
Amaryllis Leet, Member   
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
Paul Doherty, Member 
 
        
Also Present:   Peter Proulx, Secretary 
     Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
Members Absent:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
 
   
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  A resident asked if we will have the same snow plow  company this year; can we 
have a meeting beforehand.  The E.D. replied we will have a meeting in November  
to discuss the horn system, etc.  It was confusing last year with a new company, 
hopefully better this winter.  
•  A resident asked what Keith uses to clean the windo ws; you can’t see through 
them.  The E.D. replied that he uses a Windex product; pos sibly leaving a residue.  
Will check with Keith.  
•  A resident asked if Keith needed help mowing the la wn; adding the grass is high, 
apples all over, stuff growing along the sidewalks;  can he lower the blades.  The 
E.D. will discuss with Tony and Keith.  
 
1. The Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:36 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the August 20, 2015 meeting were presented.  Paul Doherty asked if 
the parking issue had been resolved; the E.D. repli ed it was.  Amaryllis Leet asked about 
the pets; the E.D. replied that under 760 CMR there  is a 40 pound limit and a $160 pet 
deposit.  With a reasonable accommodation, a compan ion animal of any type is allowed.  
Caroline Fortin made a motion to accept the minutes  with amendment; Paul Doherty 
seconded.  All were in favor, the motion passed unanimously. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
 A. Leominster is moving forward with no-smoking at  Anne O’Connor, Sunset 
Towers will be next.   
 B. No-smoking surveys are back for Sterling. 
A. MART is adding a stop at Pearl Brook. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
4.  Financial Report: 
 A. We are in good condition. 
 B.  Page F2 – Reserves are at 70.53%. 
C.  Page F3 – We are $16,177 to the good.  
 
Paul Doherty made a motion to accept the financials . Caroline Fortin seconded; all were 
in favor. 
 
5.  Facilities Report: 
 We received 23 work orders for the month of Septem ber; 16 were completed 
within 24 hours. 
6.  Old Business – None 
7.  New Business: 
 The following resolutions were presented: 
The E.D. went over the Capital Improvement Plan for  the next five years.  We have 
scheduled windows at the 705’s in 2019; tenants com plained at the CIP meeting); it is 
possible to do these earlier.  Net metering credits will be coming soon.   
Caroline Fortin asked if the carpet/kitchen (2016) would be all done at the same time.  
The E.D. explained that carpeting will only be replaced in apartments based on need.   
Paul Doherty added that the back patio work should be done for water issues, etc.  The 
E.D. replied it would be eventually, we have a few items to improve on there. 
 
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE APPLICATION FOR CAPITAL I MPROVEMENT 
PLAN – FORMULA FUNDING TO DHCD 
 
Resolution 201504 
 
Whereas:  DHCD will annually provide a given amount  of capital development 
funding through a “formula funding” allocation to a ddress 
deficiencies and deferred maintenance issues identified and, 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the ne ed to submit an 
application for Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to D HCD for the 
years 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 and, 
Whereas:  A meeting was held with the tenants on October 7, 2 015 for their 
comment and input as required by DHCD. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 2.                                                                           October 22, 2015     
 
===PAGE 3===
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the members of the Lunenburg Housing Authority  Board of 
Commissioners have reviewed and approved the five y ear Capital 
Improvement Plan (CIP) Formula Funding for years 20 16, 2017, 
2018, 2019 and 2020 as presented and further author ize the 
Executive Director to submit the application to DHCD. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Paul Doherty to authorize the Executive Director to 
submit the application for Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) Formula 
Funding, as proposed, to DHCD. 
SECONDED,  Amaryllis Leet seconded the motion, and the motion was passed by 
a unanimous vote. 
 
The E.D. went over the 2016 budget stating that we received an $8,000 subsidy last year 
for snow and computers; we do not expect any subsid y next year.  Insurance and pension 
are up a little; we have no control over that.  The  budget has a basic 3% increase across 
the board on everything else. 
  2016 4001 OPERATING BUDGET  
 
RESOLUTION 201505 
 
WHEREAS: The Lunenburg Housing Authority is require d by DHCD to submit an 
approved 4001 Operating Budget for State-Aided Hous ing for Fiscal 
Year 2016 and, 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
 
 That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board authori zes submission 
of the 4001 Operating Budget for State-Aided Housin g for Fiscal 
Year 2016 to the Department of Housing and Communit y 
Development, as directed by DHCD and recommended by  the 
Executive Director, 
 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Deborah Christen to submit  the 2016 Operating 
Budget for State-Aided Housing of the Lunenburg Hou sing Authority 
to the Department of Housing and Community Development. 
 
SECONDED, Caroline Fortin seconded the motion, and the motion was passed by a 
unanimous vote.   
 
Deborah Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeti ng at 6:58 p.m.  Amaryllis Leet 
seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 3.                                                                            October 22, 
2015     
 