===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA (virtual meeting held) 
 
November 19, 2020 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Chair  
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Jon Hogue, Member 
 
Members Absent:   None 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
 
a. Chair Linda McDonald asked for a roll call of members present:  Deborah Christen-present, Jon 
Hogue-present, Linda McDonald -present. Also present were Benjamin Gold, Executive Director ; 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director  and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative Assistant.  The Chair 
declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.   
 
b.  The minutes of the October 29, 2020 meeting were presented.    Deborah Christen made a motion 
to approve the minutes; Jon Hogue  seconded. Deborah Christen -aye, Jon Hogue -aye, Linda 
McDonald-aye; all were in favor and minutes were accepted. 
 
c. Opportunity for Public Comment:  For the record there were no individuals calling in. 
 
3.  Financial Report – October 2020  
a. Page F2 - Healthy reserves at 74.77%. 
b. Page F3 – Doing well with shelter rents; $23,000 to the good (ten months in).  Utilities over a 
little; maintenance labor over due to COVID cleaning  and other items . We are t o the good 
with contract costs.  No concerns.     
 
Jon Hogue moved to approve the October 2020 financial report.  Linda McDonald seconded. 
Deborah Christen-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Linda McDonald-aye              
 
4.  Administration:   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
 
Septic System Replacement (Fish #162031) – Construction documents completed; permit signed to 
get project going.  Will go out to bid during the winter; installation in the spring/summer. 
 
Work Order Report – 26 routine work orders received, all completed; 4 emergency work orders , all 
completed.  Possibly be going to deferred work orders again.  There are no concerns at this time. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Brief discussion on condition of Community Room decking.  Maintenance did some work on it a 
couple months ago; will get status on rotted boards. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received 13 standard applications in October; seven elderly and six family. There is a significant 
number of applicants on the waiting list as turnover is low.   There w ere no lease-ups and no 
vacancies in October.  We are currently at 100% occupancy and doing very well. 
5.  Unfinished Business – None.  
6.  New Business:   
Resolution 2020 14 Approval of DHCD CFA Amendment #9 .   Contract for financial assistance 
between the Lunenburg Housing Authority and DHCD.  This is for $10,000 COVID funding which 
does not affect our formula funding.  Motion made by Deborah Christen to approve Resolution 
202014; Jon Hogue seconded .  Jon Hogue-aye, Deborah Christen -aye, Linda McDonald -aye; all in 
favor and motion passed. 
7.  Other Correspondence – DHCD Public Housing Notices: 
 PHN 2020-33 COVID 19 Response Updated Recommendations 
 PHN 2020-34 Guidance on Regulations Regarding Family Members of LHA Board Members 
& Employees 
 PHN 2020-35 Regulatory Waiver Regarding Senior Wage Exclusion  
 PHN 2020-36 Revision to PHN 2018-03: Changes to HAFIS Budget and Operating Statement 
Forms for LHAs with Solar Power Net Meter Credit Contracts 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
 Update on Management Agreements – Applied to manage two housing authorities (Templeton 
and Clinton).  Our staff went through two rounds of interviews and both decided to hire their 
own Executive Directors rather than being managed by another ho using authority.  We will 
watch for other opportunities for us. 
 
8.  Resident Participation:  None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments:  None 
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Jon Hogue made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  6:45 p.m.; Linda McDonald  seconded. Jon 
Hogue-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye with all in favor the meeting adjourned.   
The next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, December 17th. 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                        November 19, 2020 