===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA (virtual meeting held) 
 
September 24, 2020 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Chair  
Karin Menard, Vice Chair 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Jon Hogue, Member 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
 
a. Chair Linda McDonald  asked for a roll call of members present:  Karin Menard – present, 
Deborah Christen – present, Jon Hogue – present, Linda McDonald – present. Also present were 
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director ; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director  and Denise Ivaldi, 
Administrative Assistant. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.   
 
b.  The minutes of the August 20, 2020 meeting were presented.    Karin Menard made a motion to 
approve the minutes; Jon Hogue  seconded.  Deborah Christen – aye, Karin Menard – aye, Linda 
McDonald – aye, Jon Hogue – aye; all were in favor and minutes were accepted and approved. 
 
c. Opportunity for Public Comment:  For the record there were no individuals calling in. 
 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
 
a.  COVID -19 Update – We hope to be back on -site with meetings soon.  We continue to do the 
same routine, sanitizer station on -site, remaining our distance, taking phone calls and meet ing 
outside if needed with applicants.  
 
b.  Management Agreements – Every now and then, Executive  Directors retire.  We have our eyes 
open for another smaller housing authority that we may be able to take over management.  We are 
looking at a couple but they may want their own E.D.  We will keep the Board posted as we go 
along. 
Board asked what housing authorities we may be looking at; currently Templeton and Clinton.  Brief 
discussion on the benefits including procurement aspect, centralized office, some staff going to 
different sites, efficiencies. 
 
3.  Financial Report – August 31, 2020 – Ben Gold 
a.   Page F2 – Healthy reserve at 67.84%.   
b.   Page F 3 – Doing very well with shelter rents, eight months in  rents projected at  $156,157; 
actually received $174,637.  We are over $18,000 to the good, very pleased.   Net Meter/ Utility 
credits will even out over time.  Maintenance Labor over due to overtime for COVID, maintenance 
coming in four times over the weekend for sanitizing (once in the morning, once at the end of each 
day).  We are looking into receiving funds from the State for COVID expenses.  Surplus of $3,518; 
doing well financially. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Sue Honeycutt  will join our meeting next month for any specific questions on finances.  Brief 
discussion on where salaries fall on the financial report and whether we are allowed to hire residents 
to do work.  Deborah Christen made a motion to accept the  August financial report. Karin Menard 
seconded.  Deborah Christen – aye, Karin Menard – aye, Jon Hogue – aye, Linda McDonald – aye; 
all were in favor and financial report was accepted. 
 
Agreed Upon Procedures (AUP) Audit for December 31, 2019 – one of our large audits for the year.  
This was a desk audit covering rent collections, wage reconciliation, accounts payables, inventory, 
procurement, asset management and subsidy.  We had no exce ptions in the areas reviewed, looks 
good. 
 
4.  Administration:   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
 
Replacement of Underground Wiring for Fire Alarm Panel (Fish #162030) – Project completed. 
 
Septic System Replacement (Fish #162031) – Three tanks and a leaching field are being installed at 
the three family buildings .  Construction documents approved by DHCD, will bid out in winter or 
early spring. 
 
FY2020 Health & Safety Exterior Lighting (Fish #162034) – Installing new lighting in front parking 
lot and a couple in the rear.  On-going, almost complete. 
 
Work Order Report – 20 routine wo rk orders received, 17 completed; 2 emergency work orders, 
both completed.   
 
Brief discussion on septic system and distance from units to the field; 50-100 feet from the last 
building.  No issues with pumping foreseen, no pumping system in place. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received  ten standard applications in August – nine (9) elderly/young disabled and  one (1) 
family.  We have 881 elderly and 2,025 families on the waiting list.  There were three lease-ups, two 
elderly and one family; one vacancy in August.  We are currently at 100% occupancy. 
 
5.  Unfinished Business – None.  
6.  New Business:  The Chair presented the following resolutions: 
Resolution 202012 Approval of Proposed Annual Plan for FY 2021 for Submittal to DHCD.  This is 
in connection with the public meeting we just had with Steve Larry and Adam.  Motion made by Jon 
Hogue to approve Resolution 202012.   Karin Menard seconded the motion; Jon, Karin, Deb, Linda 
all were in favor. 
Resolution 202011 Approval to Adopt Revised Tenant Personal Property Policy – This resolution is 
tabled as the policy is still under revision. 
Ben Gold informed the Board that we will no longe r have a resolution for quarterly unrecoverable 
debt write-offs if there are none for that quarter.  There were no unrecoverable debt write-offs for the 
quarter ending September 2020 ; he will let the Board know if there are no balances for those 
quarters. 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
===PAGE 3===
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                        September 24, 2020 
 
 
7.  Other Correspondence:   
 DHCD PHN 2020 -29   Allocation of Supplemental Funding for Coronavirus Response -     
Memo on how DHCD will distribute funds and how public housing authorities can access 
them, documenting their use.  These funds are associated with any COVID-related expenses. 
 
8.  Resident Participation:  None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments:  None 
9.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Karin Menard  made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  6:54 p.m.  Jon Hogue  seconded; Karin 
Menard – yes, Deborah Christen – yes, Jon Hogue – yes, Linda McDonald – yes and the meeting 
was adjourned with all in favor.   
The next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, October 22nd. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3                                        September 24, 2020 
 