===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REMOTE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
September 23, 2021 
 
Members Present:       Members Absent:   
Jon Hogue, Chair       None 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Linda McDonald, Treasurer  
Catherine Clark, Assistant Treasurer 
Stanley Randall, Town Appointed Tenant Board Member 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order 
 
a.  Chair Jon Hogue  asked for a roll call of members present: Deborah Christen -present, Linda 
McDonald-present, Catherine Clark -present, Stanley Randall -present, Jon Hogue -present.  Also 
present were Benjamin Gold, Executive Director; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Directo r and 
Denise Ivaldi, Administrative Assistant. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting 
at 2:16 p.m.   
b.    Stanley Randall questioned the minutes of the June 22nd meeting in regards to the Personal Property 
Policy Resolution.  He stated the minutes reflected items on the deck and should have been under the 
deck.  It was noted that those minutes had already be en approved at the August meeting.  There was 
discussion on flowers and policies set. Deborah Christen made a motion to accept and approve t he 
minutes of the August 19, 2021 meeting.   Linda McDonald seconded and upon roll call vote  with 
Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald -aye, Jon Hogue -aye, Catherine Clark -aye, Stanley Randall -
no; the minutes were accepted and approved by a 4 to 1 vote in favor. 
c.   Opportunity for Public Comment:   
• There were no comments during this time but earlier during the Annual Plan Public Hearing, a 
resident, Lourdes, asked about the smoking policy and the results of the tenant survey.  She also 
asked what areas were considered common areas.  The Executive Dir ector noted that it is 
difficult to police smoking when staff is not there 24 hours a day; we are trying to have 
minimized smoking on site.  The housing authority will put “no smoking” signs up in the 
common areas until the policy is approved by the Board and a smoking area is put in place. 
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
• COVID Update – The housing authority has done everything possible to keep tenants safe.  It 
has worked as we have no known cases.  The community room was closed temporarily, along 
with community rooms at all other housing authorities.  We put sanitizing stations out, installed 
touchless faucets, sent packets to tenants with masks, etc.  We held vaccination clinics in 
Leominster for the 1 st and 2 nd doses as well as offered transportation.  The State is now 
concerned with the Delta Variant and issued a PHN regarding commun ity room closings, 
leaving it up to the housing authority. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
• Governor’s Appointee Seat – Congratulations to Deb. 
• Welcome to Stan Randall, Town Appointed Tenant Board Member 
• Mass NAHRO conference held this past weekend.  Was nice to see people, network and gain 
insight on things going on around the State. 
 
A resident, Louise, wanted to say she was very happy Leominster offered a vaccination clinic.  She is 
more than willing to participate for the booster shot and come to Leominster  again if another clinic is 
offered for Moderna.   
 
3.  Financial Report – August 2021  
• Reserves are at 96.88%, doing very well.  The Assistant E.D. had a list of items being purchased 
with some of the reserve money to bring it down to 60/65%.  We are using some money for sidewalk 
repairs, multiple trip hazard repairs, gutter repair and Rennai hot water servicing with a resolution for 
approval later in the meeting. 
• Shelter rents are doing well; a little behind due to an eviction a few months ago.   
• Maintenance is doing very good; maintenance labor, supplies and contract costs are all to the 
good.  Extraordinary maintenance expenses for flooring, vacancies and COVID labor. 
• No concerns at this time. 
 
Stanley Randall questioned line 4191 and wanted explanation – after reviewing the financials to see 
what he was referring to; it was noted he was looking at a page in the Annual Plan.  That can be 
addressed during discussion on the resolution later in the meeting. 
 
Motion to approve the August 2021 financial repor t made by Linda McDonald ; Deborah Christen  
seconded.  Linda McDonald-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Catherine Clark-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Stanley 
Randall-no and financials were accepted and approved with a vote of 4 to 1.   
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie 
 
667-1 Community Room Decking and Handrail Replacement (Fish #162036) – Bids were due on 
August 27th.  We received three bids; low bidder was FRG Contractor Corp in the amount of $21,950. 
 
23 routine work orders received, 14 completed; 3 emergency work orders, all completed.    
 
Linda McDonald asked if a breakdown of the types of work orders from the previous month could be 
included on this report. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold 
We received 13 standard applications in August; 7 elderly/young disabled and 6 family. We have 1,189 
elderly/young disabled and 3,114 families on the waiting list.  We are at 100% occupancy.  There were 
no lease-ups or vacancies in August. 
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                          September 23, 2021 
 
===PAGE 3===
6.  New Business 
Resolution 2021-15 Approval of Community Room Deck Repairs, DHCD Fish #162036 .  Bids 
were due by 2:00 p.m. Friday, August 27 th.  We received three bids; bid tab and memo from RCAT 
Project Manager included.  FRG Contractor Corp was low bidder with base bid of $21,950. 
Recommend Board approval.  Stanley Randall asked if this project included the small deck at the back 
of the building where the fire alarms are.  Also, whether the width would be the same or could it be 
shortened to have more space for cars to pass.  No, there were other options being discussed for that 
area including a pre-cast stair/walk as the residents don’t use.  Will be using Trex decking, not wood 
and the width will be the same.  
 
Motion made by Linda McDonald  to approve Resolution 202 1-15; Deborah Christen  seconded.  
Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Catherine Clark-aye, Stanley Randall -
aye and motion passed with a 5 to 0 vote in favor. 
 
Resolution 2021-16 Approval of Rennai Hot Water System Servicing .  Bids are due Wednesday, 
September 29th.  This is a Proprietary System and not a lot of authorized servicers.  We reached out to 
the manufacturer and Rennai suggested someone out of the area with scope of work to include taking 
the system apart, cleaning and changing the filters for $15,000.  We followed procurement regulations; 
we may not receive other bids but if a bid comes in lower, we would go with that.  Brief discussion on 
the original system and how tenants really liked it; just needs to be serviced.   
 
Motion made by Linda McDonald to approve Resolution 2021 -16; Catherine Clark seconded.  Linda 
McDonald-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Catherine Clark-aye, Stanley Randall-aye and 
motion passed with a 5 to 0 vote in favor. 
 
Resolution 2021-17 Approval of FY 2022 Annual Plan Submittal to DHCD.  The Annual Plan was 
presented before the meeting in a Public Hearing.  This resolution is to formally approve.  Regarding 
Stanley Randall’s question earlier on line 4191 (which is part of the budget), that amount is money for 
a Tenant Organization.  Lunenburg does not have one but if they had a formal Tenant Organization, 
they would receive that amount to spend.  The money comes from DHCD, if there is no LTO the money 
is not released and cannot be used for anything else.  No further discussion.   
 
Motion made by Deborah Christen  to approve Resolution 2021 -17; Linda McDonald  seconded.  
Deborah Christen-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Linda McDonald-aye, Stanley Randall-aye and motion passed 
with a 4 to 0 vote.  Catherine Clark lost connection while vote was being taken. 
 
7.  Other Correspondence – The Executive Director reviewed 
• PHN 2021-18 Continued COVID-19 Vigilance in light of Delta Variant and increasing 
transmission rates 
• PHN 2021-19 Treatment pf One-time Benefit to Families Receiving TANF Cash Assistance 
or TAFDC 
 
8.  Resident Participation –   None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments – None 
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Linda McDonald made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  3:00 p.m.; Deborah McDonald seconded.  
With all in favor the meeting adjourned.  The next meeting will be held Thursday, October 21, 2021. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3                  September 23, 2021 
 