===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REMOTE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
 
August 19, 2021 
 
Members Present:   Jon Hogue, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Linda McDonald, Treasurer  
Catherine Clark, Assistant Treasurer 
 
Members Absent:   None 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
 
a.  Chair Jon Hogue  asked for a roll call of members present: Deborah Christen -present, Linda 
McDonald-present, Catherine Clark -present, Jon Hogue-present.  Also present were Benjamin Gold, 
Executive Director ; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Directo r and Denise Ivaldi, Admin istrative 
Assistant. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.   
b.  Catherine Clark made a motion to accept and approve t he minutes of the June 24, 2021 meeting.   
Linda McDonald seconded and all were in favor. 
c.   Opportunity for Public Comment:   
 Tenant waiting on results for smoking survey.  Wanted to know definition of common area 
and whether smoking and drinking were allowed there.  Smoking endangers the health of 
others and a group gathers outside the community  room.  Prior policy was adopted in 2010, 
the survey the housing authority initiated was to try and involve residents in actions we take 
with policies.  Appreciate the tenant’s advocacy on this issue. 
 Tenant wanted to know the intent of amending the Person al Property Policy if one didn’t 
already exist.  There was a previous policy adopted in 2020, changes made primarily dealing 
with storage and plants; will discuss further under New Business.  Tenant asked the Board to 
hold off approving.  The Executive Dir ector explained that we are putting garden/flower beds 
out back for tenants.  We had some previously, tenants stopped using and taking care of and 
area became overgrown with weeds so they were removed.  Adam Gautie added the concern 
for vents outside the u nits for water heater exhausts, crawl space and gas meters which could 
cause possible fire and carbon monoxide issues.  Tenant was thanked for their thoughts on this 
policy. 
 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
 COVID Update – Virtual meeting meetings will be held for the foreseeable future.  We are 
waiting on information on booster shots; see if we can offer clinics again.  DHCD PHN came 
out late this afternoon on the Delta Variant focusing on continuing protocols, up to housing 
authority if we want to close community room again. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 Town Appointed Tenant Board Member – The BOS should be appointing a tenant to this seat 
in the coming week.  Cathy Clark mentioned the BOS email sent to all Board members stating 
Mr. Stan Randall is a candidate for the seat and inviting the Board to participate in their 
meeting with the seat appointment on the agenda.  Deborah Christen noted this is under the 
Acts of 2014 and took a while to implement legislature. 
 Governor’s Appointee Seat – We received an email that a letter is coming August 30 th 
appointing Deborah Christen to this seat.  Congrats Deb! 
 Juneteenth Independence Day – This was brought to the Leominster Board and tabled for 
more information be approving. 
 Mass NAHRO conference September 19-22 is still happening with masks required. 
 
3.  Financial Report – June/July 2021 (reviewed July) 
 Reserves are at 105.66%.  We will be reducing in the coming month by $20,000.  Shelter rents 
were budgeted for $152,000; actual was $145,031.  We are behind a little due to an eviction 
and a tenant who hasn’t paid rent in a while.   Administrative is doing fine.  Utilities are doing 
fine; DHCD handles.  We are waiting to receive our net metering credits after September. 
 Maintenance Labor is doing well.  Materials, supplies and contract costs are doing well.  
Other housing authorities tend to go over a lot on this item, so we are happy.  We didn’t 
budget for extraordi nary maintenance expenses so we are behind $12,417 which is fine. 
Money was spent on unit turnovers and COVID money running through this line item.   
 Bottom line, we are $21,851 to the good with no concerns. 
 
Chair Jon Hogue asked how the $20,000 was being  spent.  Adam Gautie stated there was a lot of 
tenant concern with the hot water system, taking a long time to get hot water.  The system was a 
DHCD sustainability project to save energy, over time it needs to be cleaned and serviced.  A Rennai 
Rep came out two weeks ago to determine what could be done to make it a better system.  He gave an 
estimate of $15,000 to take the system apart, clean and change the filters.  We can also redo the faucet 
aerators which are energy saving now and replace with regular a erators to increase water flow.  
Another complaint tenants had were drafts in the storm doors so we will consider that too.  Deborah 
Christen remembers when the Rennai system was put in, the tenants were all happy with getting hot 
water much faster than the old system.  The system just needs to be kept up. 
 
Motion to approve the June and July  2021 financial repor ts made by Linda McDonald ; Catherine 
Clark seconded.  Jon Hogue -aye, Deborah Christen -aye, Linda McDonald -aye and financials were 
accepted and approved. 
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
 
Septic System Replacement , Family Units (Fish #162031) – Project completed.  Resolutions for 
Substantial and Final Completion to approve later in meeting.  The engineer, Gerson and Scott all 
said the contractor did a great job and everything looks great. 
 
667-1 Community Room Decking and Handrail Replacement (Fish #162036) – Out to bid August 
11th with bids due August 27th with a cost estimate of $20,000. 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                                  August 19, 2021 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Work Order Report (June/July) – 61 routine work orders received, 52 completed; 6 emergency work 
orders, all completed.    
 
Chair Jon Hogue asked if the generator was still in motion to get quotes.  Adam Gautie spoke with 
the designer two weeks ago, still working on it.  We were going to use reserves but there is an open 
Formula Funding project that we will now use instead. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received  19 standard applications in July; 11 elderly/young disabled and 8 family . We are at 
100% occupancy.   
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
6.  New Business 
Resolution 2021-10 Approval of Tenant Personal Property Policy.  Previously approved and adopted 
on August 21, 2020.  DHCD had a template which we tailored for Lunenburg Housing.  Based on the 
feedback from a tenant meeting, changes were made.  There will be no storage allowed on decks with 
the exception of bicycles and wheelchairs, other reasonable accommodation requests will be 
reviewed. 
There is a compromise for tenants to have outdoor potted plants.  Maintenance has to mow grass and 
plow snow and we want to make it easier for him to get his job done  without plant overgrowth.  He 
takes pride in the complex and is a great groundskeeper.  After the policy is approved, we will walk 
the grounds. 
 
There was discussion on whether the housing authority could purchase large potted plants for the new 
deck and let the tenants maintain.  Turkey Hill Gardeners maintain the village in the town center and 
do a great job; maybe they would come and check things out at our complex.  The MART bus takes 
tenants to areas in town.  The Church has a vegetab le garden in center as does the Senior Center.  
These are all areas those tenants looking to be involved could contribute.  Personal items left in the 
community room refrigerator should have dates on the items, place a note on the fridge.  Should have 
a system for food being dropped off with individual there to receive and schedule for tenants to pick 
up. 
 
Motion made by Deborah Christen to approve Resolution 202 1-10 Tenant Personal Property Policy ; 
Linda McDonald seconded.  Deborah Christen-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Linda McDonald-aye, Catherine 
Clark-aye and motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
 
Resolution 2021-11 Approval of Amended By-Laws. We had previously discussed changing the time 
of the meeting to 2:00 p.m.  Also, Section 1, Article 2 states there are six members, that should be 
changed to 5 members.  The by-laws also call for a Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer.    Motion made 
by Deborah Christen  to approve the 2:00 p.m. time change and 5 -member board.   Jon Hogue  
seconded.  Deborah Christen -aye, Linda McDon ald-aye, Catherine Clark -aye, Jon Hogue -aye and 
motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
 
Linda McDonald nominated herself as Treasurer; Catherine Clark would be the Assistant Treasurer.  
Deborah Christen made a motion to appoint Linda McDonald as Treasurer and Catherin Clark as 
Assistant Treasurer.  Jon Hogue seconded and all were in favor. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3                                                  August 19, 2021 
 
 
Resolution 2021 -12 Approval of Certifica te of Substantial Completion, 705 -1 Septic System 
Replacement, DHCD Fish #162031.  When project is 95% complete, a 5% retainage is held until 
punch list items are completed .   Motion made by Catherine Clark to approve Resolution 2021 -12; 
Linda McDonald  seconded.  Deborah Christen -aye, Catherine Clark -aye, Jon Hogue -aye, Linda 
McDonald-aye and motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
 
Resolution 2021-13 Approval of Certificate of Final Completion, 705 -1 Septic System Replacement, 
DHCD Fish #162031.  No Discussi on.   Motion made by Catherine Clark to approve Resolution 
2021-13; Linda McDonald seconded.  Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye, Catherine Clark-
aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Catherine Clark-aye, Linda McDonald-aye and motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
 
Resolution 2021 -14 Approval of Quarterly Unrecoverable Debt Write -Offs, 705 -1 Septic System 
Replacement, DHCD Fish #162031.  Individual decided we were charging too much and starting 
paying half of the rent.  They went to a nursing home, failed to pay rent .  The eviction moratorium 
prevented us from filing for eviction but at the end of the year we were able to.  They took items they 
wanted and abandoned the unit.  We can take to the Collection Agency and see if they will accept 
rather than go through the c ourt and spend more money.   Another tenant moved out and didn’t pay 
rent balance.  We do not have security deposits or last month’s rent at the housing authority, rent is 
paid month to month with a 30 -day notice to vacate.   Motion made by Deborah Christen to approve 
Resolution 2021-14; Linda McDonald seconded.  Deborah Christen-aye, Catherine Clark -aye, Linda 
McDonald, Jon Hogue-aye and motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
 
 
7.  Other Correspondence – No Discussion 
 PHN 2021-11 End of COVID-19 State of Emergency and LHA Operations 
 PHN 2021-12 Agreed Upon Procedures (AUP) Program Updates 
 PHN 2021-13 Updates to Performance Management Review 
 PHN 2021-14 CHAMP Fair Housing PMR Criteria 
 PHN 2021-15 Mandatory Data Reporting 
 PHN 2021-16 Board Member Attendance Application Reminders 
 PHN 2021-17 Reasonable Accommodation Policy 
 
8.  Resident Participation –   None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments – None 
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Deborah Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  7:25 p.m.; Linda McDonald seconded.  
With all in favor the meeting  adjourned.  The next meeting will be held Thursday, September 23, 
2021 at the new 2:00 p.m. time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 4                          August 19, 2021 