===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA (virtual meeting held) 
 
March 25, 2021 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Chair  
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Jon Hogue, Member 
 
Members Absent:   None 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
 
a. Chair Linda McDonald  asked for a roll call of members present: Jon Hogue -present, Deborah 
Christen-present, Linda McDonald -present. Also present were Benjamin Gold, Executive Director ; 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Directo r and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative Assistant.  The Chair 
declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 5:37 p.m.   
 
b. The minutes of the February 18, 2021 meeting were tabled until next month.     
 
c. Opportunity for Public Comment:  For the record there were no individuals calling in. 
 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
 COVID Update – Residents from Lunenburg Sterling and W. Boylston came to Leominster to 
get their first dose of the vaccine. on March 2 nd. We had 26 residents/caretakers from 
Lunenburg participate.  The second dose will be given on March 31 st.  Transportation was 
provided, everything went well. 
 Virtual Mass NAHRO Legislative Day was held on March 23 rd – Discussed budget and 
pending legislation; we met with some legislators. 
 Virtual Mass NAHRO conference – if interested in registering, contact Denise. 
 Lunenburg smoking policy to be updated; brief discussion. 
 
3.  Financial Report – January and February 2021  
 
Page F2 – Two months into the year, reserves are high at 98%; working on some projects to use some 
of this money.  One project is the Community Room generator discussed previously. 
Page F3 – We are a little behind in rents; doing fine with the subsidy.  Utilities a little high due to 
winter but should even out over the course of the year.  Ordinary maintenance to the good; materials 
and supplies with $200 of budget.  Scott doing a great job; lot of complements.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Non-routine expenses          Extraordinary expenses, includes COVID expenses and flooring 
We are $4700 to the good; no concerns. 
Motion to approve the January and February 2021  financial report s made by Jon Hogue ; Deborah 
Christen seconded.  Jon Hogue-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye and financials were 
accepted and approved. 
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
 
Septic System Replacement (Fish #162031) – We received seven bids.  Low bid from Glenn Hines 
out of Leominster for $163,00 which is in line with the cost estimate.  Resolution later in the meeting. 
 
667-1 Community Room Decking and Handrail Replacement (Fish #162036) – Still in pla nning 
phase; July/August timeframe. 
 
Generator – Working with  our RCAT Project Manager to find a DHCD house doctor who is pre -
approved by DHCD; waiting to hear back.   
 
Work Order Report – 21 routine work orders received, 20 completed; 7 emergency work orders , all 
completed. Scott is doing a good job. 
 
Discussion on whether there is air conditioning in the units. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received  12 standard applications in February; eight elderly and four family. There are 1,052 
elderly and 2,660 families on the waiting list.  There were no lease-ups and no vacancies in February.  
We are currently at 100% occupancy with one waiver but should be leasing the unit up shortly. 
5.  Unfinished Business – None.  
6.  New Business 
Resolution 202 1-4 Approval of Low Bid, DHCD #162031 Septic System Replacement at White 
Street 705-1.  We received seven bids ; Glenn Hines of Leominster was low  bidder.  The Designer 
checked references and everything came back good.  Motion made by Deborah Christen to approve 
Resolution 2021-4; Jon Hogue seconded.  Deborah Christen-aye, Jon Hogue -aye, Linda McDonald-
aye and motion passed with a 2 to 0 vote. 
 
Resolution 2021-5 Approval of Accounting Services Contract for January to December 2021.  We are 
satisfied with their services.  Motion made by Jon Hogue  to approve Resolution 202 1-5; Deborah 
Christen seconded.  Jon Hogue -aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye and motion passed 
with a 2 to 0 vote. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                              March 25, 2021 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
7.  Other Correspondence – DHCD Public Housing Notices were reviewed: 
 PHN 2021-02 – Notice of Funding Availability – Resident Service Coordinator.  We reached 
out to see if we would be eligible for our consortium of Lunenburg, Sterling and W. Boylston 
and possibly partner with Holden Housing Authority as well.  Leominster already has a 
resident service coordinator.  There are only ten awards available and will be competitive.  
 PHN 2021-03 – DHCD Guidelines for Local Housing Authority Hiring of Executive Director.  
Not applicable to Lunenburg. 
 
8.  Resident Participation –   None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments – None 
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Linda McDonald  made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  6:00 p.m.; Jon Hogue  seconded. Jon 
Hogue-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye with all in favor the meeting adjourned.   
The next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, April 22, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3                                        March 25, 2021 