===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REMOTE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
October 21, 2021 
 
Members Present:      Members Absent:   
Jon Hogue, Chair      Catherine Clark, Assistant Treasurer 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Linda McDonald, Treasurer  
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1.  Meeting called to order 
a.  Chair Jon Hogue  asked for a roll call of members present: Deborah Christen -present, Linda 
McDonald-present, Jon Hogue-present, Catherine Clark-absent.  Also present were Benjamin Gold, 
Executive Director ; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Directo r and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative 
Assistant. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 2:02 p.m.   
b.    Deborah Christen made a motion to accept and approve t he minutes of the September 23, 2021 
meeting.   Linda McDonald seconded and upon roll call vote with Jon Hogue-aye, Linda McDonald-
aye, Deborah Christen-aye and the minutes were accepted and approved by a 3 to 0 vote. 
c.   Opportunity for Public Comment – For the record there were no callers.   
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
a.   Town Appointed Tenant Member Seat is available, encourage everyone to apply.  We have all heard 
the terrible news about Stan Randall’s passing the weekend after our last meeting.  Stan was our most 
recent member and a fervent advocate for his fellow tenants.  He would have been a helpful addition 
to our Board.  The E.D. then asked for a few seconds of silence for Stan. 
b.   Chair Jon Hogue is moving and resigning from the Board; this is his last meeting.  The E.D. thanked 
Jon for serving and said he was sorry to see him leave.  He has been a great addition to the Board and 
we enjoyed having him.  Chair Hogue said he enjoyed his t ime here; everyone does a great job.  He 
shares that when he goes around town.  Linda McDonald said they wish him the very best; the Board 
thanked him. 
c.   All Housing Authorities are looking to gain ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) funds.  Advocacy 
actions included sending letters to local legislators to discuss our need for funding.  We invited 
representatives out to visit and tour the site; Representative Danillo Sena and Senator John Cronin met 
with the Executive Director, Assistant E.D. and Director of  Facilities.  They took a 45 -minute walk 
around the complex and looked at a vacant unit; it was a nice experience.  Pearl Brook is a nice complex 
but there are always items to address  especially inside the units.  Representative Michael Kushmerek 
is scheduled to come out November 1st for a tour.  Chair Hogue stated that Mike Kushmerek is a really 
nice guy; he has been in City Council meetings on CDBG; he’s been a big supporter of the shelter and 
he cares. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
3.  Financial Report – September 2021  
• Reserves are at 101.5% which is too high . We have a lot of expenses that will come out of 
reserves including power washing at the family units, sidewalk repairs, a tractor purchase and a 
smoking gazebo which will be discussed later in the meeting.  Reserves should come down by the end 
of the year. 
• Shelter rents are behind due to an eviction and vacancies.  Administrative Other is a little 
behind. 
• When we look at the bottom line, we are $17,316 favorable which is good news; we are in good 
shape.  No concerns at this time. 
Motion to approve and accept the September 2021 financial report made by Linda McDonald; Deborah 
Christen seconded.  Linda McDonald-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, and financials were 
accepted and approved with a vote of 3 to 0.   
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie 
 
667-1 Community Room Decking and Handrail Replacement (Fish #162036) – Adam Gautie, Gerson 
Cintron and RCAT project manager Jim Turner held a pre-construction meeting with the contractor.   
We discussed the material and accepted the contractor’s sample of Trex decking.  The contractor is 
ordering and decking should be in the first week of November.  Once the project is started, it should be 
complete in two weeks. 
 
Update on the Generator – This will be a modernization project once the Annual Plan is finalized and 
submitted to DHCD; the Board approved the Plan at last month’s meeting.  DHCD will then activate 
the project and we will receive funding .  We are working with the designer who has two potential 
generator, Kohler and Generac; we will move forward with the Kohler.  We hope to have the concrete 
pad installed before the ground freezes and the generator in as soon as possible after, hopefully before 
the winter. 
 
45 routine work orders received, 33 completed; 10 emergency work orders, all completed.    
 
If you recall, last month the Board has requested a breakdown of the various work orders; we have 
added this to the bottom of the report.  The Board said it was nice to see and interesting to keep an eye 
on everything; it gives them an idea of what a non-emergency work order is. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold 
We received 15 standard applications in September; 7 elderly/young disabled and 8 family. We have 
1,259 elderly/young disabled and 3, 276 families on the waiting list.  There were no lease -ups or 
vacancies in September. We are at 100% occupancy.  We do have one vacancy in October which will 
be reflected in next month’s report.  We are ready to fill but waiting on unit to be finished; should be 
leased in November. 
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                          October 21, 2021 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
6.  New Business 
Resolution 202 1-18 Approval of Revised No -Smoking Policy .  We conducted a survey with all 
elderly residents and asked if they preferred no smoking or a having designated smoking area.  The 
results were provided in the Board’s packet with an overwhelming response for a smoking shed.  The 
new policy will reflect no smoking in the unit or on the porches.  The previous policy stated smoking 
was allowed on the porches as long as it didn’t interfere with neighbors.; this was confusing for tenants. 
We will place a gazebo at the back of the complex as the designated smokin g area away from the 
buildings. 
 
At this time a tenant called in; the Board allowed the tenant to speak.  Tenant asked about the BTUs 
allowed for air conditioners; hers is 5,000 BTU.  Adam Gautie stated that Pearl Brook does not currently 
have an AC policy  but one will be coming out shortly.  The maximum will be 10,000 BTU so she 
should be all set.  The tenant asked about the coin machine for laundry.  Adam Gautie stated this was 
discussed with the current vendor; they do not have a coin machine but use an “add value” card where 
you can add money to the card.  The “add value” card is being used at the Leominster complexes.  Since 
Pearl Brook is a small complex, the cost of laundry may go up with the “add value” card.  We will 
discuss further with the vendor.  The tenant said that would be great; the Board thanked her for her 
time. 
 
The Board returned to the No-Smoking Policy with a brief discussion on enforcement always being a 
challenge especially in the winter.  Marijuana and vaping being included in the policy so all bases were 
covered.   
 
Motion made by Deborah Christen  to approve the no -smoking policy ; Linda McDonald seconded.  
Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, and motion passed with a 3 to 0 vote in 
favor. 
 
7.  Other Correspondence – The Executive Director reviewed 
• PHN 2021-20 FY2022 Local Housing Authority Budget Guidelines.  This PHN discusses the 
budget guidelines and the 4% increase in ANUEL for 2022. 
 
8.  Resident Participation –   None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments  
      Jon Hogue said he would miss working with everyone.  The Board thanked Jon and appreciated all 
his knowledge. 
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Linda McDonald made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 2:27 p.m.; Deborah Christen seconded.  With 
all in favor the meeting adjourned.  The next meeting will be held Thursday, November 18, 2021. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3                          October 21, 2021 
 