===PAGE 1===
Page  | 1 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                                         November 17, 2022 
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING  
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
November 17th, 2022 
 
Members Present:        Members Absent:  
Deborah A.H. Christen, Chair      None  
Linda McDonald, Vice Chair      
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member 
Dale Proulx, Treasurer 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Jade Tavares, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects 
 
1.  Meeting Called to Order 
a. Vice Chair Deborah Christen asked for a roll call of members present: Linda McDonald-
present, Deborah Christen-present, Wayne Caron-present, and Dale Proulx-present. Also 
present were Executive Director Benjamin Gold, Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie, 
and Administrative Assistance/Special Projects Jade Tavares. The Vice Chair declared a 
quorum present and opened the meeting at 2:00p.m.   
b. The minutes of October 20th, 2022 were presented. With no discussion, Vice Chair made a 
motion to approve the minutes; Tenant Board Member seconded, with all in favor. 
c. There was an opportunity for public comments: 
a. Tenant stated there should be an extra container for trash, as it becomes “piled up” in 
the front when tenants do not throw the trash to the back. Tenants discussed how 
cardboard boxes are not being “broken down” before being thrown in the trash. 
b. Tenants talked about cars (tenants and visitors) speeding in the complex. Tenants 
explained the delivery trucks speed as well. Tenant Board Member stated he has 
spoken with the UPS drivers about this concern. Tenants asked for a speed limit sign 
to be posted. Assistant Executive Director agreed to follow up. 
c. Tenants talked about some cars are parking on the lawn; tenants discussed about other 
tenants using the visitors parking spots. Tenants asked about the additional parking. 
Assistant Executive Director stated two parking spots in the back lot will be seasonal; 
Maintenance will be putting up the signs. Assistant Executive Director stated 
Maintenance is working on the new handicap parking in the back. 
 
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
a. MassNAHRO Fall Conference – Executive Director talked about the conference. 
b. Election of Officers – The Executive Director asked for nominations for a full slate of officers 
or individual nominations. Board Member Dale nominated Deborah A.H. Christen as Chair, 
Linda McDonald as Vice Chair and himself as Treasurer. Tenant Board Member seconded, 
with all in favor. 
c. There was a discussion of holding a COVID19 Booster Clinic. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page  | 2 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                                         November 17, 2022 
3.  Financial Report  
a. Reserve is healthy at 60.94%. We are 10 months in and going well. Total Ordinary 
Maintenance is to the good; Extraordinary Maintenance is in the deficit. Overall finances look 
pretty good with no concerns. 
b. Treasurer asked about the front cover letter of the financials. Executive Director stated Sue 
Honeycutt of Fenton, Ewald and Associates PC had reported they are legally required to 
provide the cover letter, as they do not perform audits. Executive Director explained Sue 
Honeycutt gathers the information from the Director of Finance and checks to ensure 
everything is correct and that it is in accordance with the agency. Executive Director 
explained this information is then presented it in readable format for the Board Members to 
review.  
c. The financials of October 2022 were reviewed. Treasurer made a motion to approve the 
October, 2022 financials as presented; Vice Chair seconded, with all in favor. 
 
 
4.  Administration   
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Assistant Director 
 
667-1 Community Room Generator (FISH# 162040) This project was tabled due to excessive 
cost of bids received. 
 
667-1 Intercom System (FISH# 162041) DHCD hired Hesnor Engineering as the designer. 
This project is now in the design phase. We conducted a site walkthrough with Hesnor on 
9/2/222. DHCD has combined this project with 667-1 – Replace Federal Pacific Electric Panel 
(FISH#162044), an ARPA targeted award, to be more cost effective. This is in the planning 
stage and Hesnor engineering is in the design phase. 
 
Walkway repairs (FISH# 162042) The construction documents are completed. We will be 
bidding this project over the winter for spring 2023 construction. The plan is to connect all of 
the walkways and upgrade the patio area. 
 
667-1 Tree Removal (FISH# 162043) The Lunenburg Conservation Commission approved 
the RDA application on 11/02/2022. They also approved the emergency removal of three dead 
trees at the end of the rear parking lot; those three trees have since been removed. The official 
paperwork from the Lunenburg Conservation Commission has been submitted to DHCD.  
 
 
Work Order Report: 
1. For 667: There was a total of 22 with 21 completed and 1open. Out of these, 5 were 
Emergencies and have been completed.  
2. For 705: There was a total of 1 Non-Emergency and has been completed. 
 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Executive Director 
We received 17 Standard Applications (14 Elderly/Young Disabled and 3 Family). We have 
1,929 Elderly and 4,921 Family applicants on the waiting list. There was 1 lease-ups and 1 
vacancy in October. We are at 95.83% occupancy for Elderly (2 Empty units - 0 Waiver = 2 
Vacancies). We are at 100% occupied for Family (0 Empty unit – 0 Waiver = 0 Vacancy). 
Overall occupancy is at 96.30%. 
===PAGE 3===
Page  | 3 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                                         November 17, 2022 
 
5. Unfinished Business 
a. Lunenburg Conservation Commission regarding removal of dead and dying trees. 
 
6. New Business 
    a. There was a discussion held regarding holding a meeting in December. Treasurer motioned to 
not have a December Board Meeting; Vice Chair second, with all in favor. 
 
7. Other Correspondence 
a. DHCD PHN 2022-21 Reservation & Modernization Resource for LHA-owned Section 8 NC/SR 
Developments 
 
8. Motion to Adjourn 
There being no further business, Tenant Bard Member made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 
2:36p.m. Vice Chair seconded and with all in favor the meeting was adjourned.  Next meeting will 
be held in January, 2023. 
 