
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING 

131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA 
April 25, 2024

Members Present:								Members Absent:
Dale Proulx, Chair								None
Linda McDonald, Vice Chair			
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member
Nicole Waters, Treasurer
Deborah A.H. Christen

Also Present:				
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director
Jade Tavares, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects
Moises Ramos, Housing Manager Satellite Locations
Jessica Davies, Assistant Housing Manager Satellite Locations

Meeting Called to Order
Chair Dale Proulx asked for a roll call of members present: Linda McDonald-present, Wayne Caron-present, Nicole Waters-present, and Deborah A.H. Christen-present. Also present, were Executive Director Benjamin Gold, Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects Jade Tavares, Housing Manager Satellite Locations Moises Ramos, and Assistant Housing Manager Satellite Locations Jessica Davies. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 2:00 p.m.  
The minutes of March 21, 2024 were presented. With no discussion, Treasurer made a motion to approve the minutes; Vice Chair seconded, with all in favor.

Executive Director Report 
The Executive Director discussed the Open Meeting Law and will provide a document for the Board Members to review at the next board meeting. The Executive Director discussed the Board Member Training, which some of the Board Members accounts were locked; Executive Director to follow up. Administrative Assistant/Special Projects Jade Tavares mailed out a booklet, of the Board Member Training, to each board member to refer to. The Executive Director discussed the Ethics Training and the MassNAHRO Tuition Assistance Program. The Executive Director to attend NERCNAHRO conference in June. The Executive Director talked about management agreements.

Financial Report 
The financials of March, 2024 were reviewed. Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to approve the March, 2024 financials as presented; Tenant Board Member seconded, with all in favor.

Administration  
Modernization/Work Order Report – Assistant Director

667-1 Intercom System/Federal Pacific Panel Replacement – FISH#162041
Change order #1 work is underway to change the unit range receptacles to 4-wire.  Expected completion is in June, 2024.

The Board Members discussed the project and were satisfied with the update provided. The Board Members officially approved Resolution 2024-5, which was conditionally approved, at the last bard meeting on 3/21/2024.

Work Order Report:
For 667: There was a total of 13 with 12 completed and 1 open. Out of these, 1 was an Emergency and has been completed. 
For 705: There was a total of 3 with 2 completed and 1 open. Out of these, 1 was an Emergency and has been completed. 

State-Aided Housing Report – Executive Director
We received 13 Standard Applications (6 Elderly/Young Disabled and 7 Family). We have 2,955 Elderly and 6,117 Family applicants on the waiting list. There were 0 lease-ups and 1 vacancy in March. We are at 97.92% occupancy for Elderly (2 Empty unit – 0 Waiver = 2 Vacancy). We are at 100% occupancy for Family (1 Empty unit – 1 Waiver = 0 Vacancy). Overall occupancy is at 96.23%.

Unfinished Business – None 

New Business – None

Other Correspondence – None

Motion to Adjourn
There being no further business, Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting 2:25p.m. Tenant Board Member seconded and with all in favor the meeting was adjourned.






Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes								                      April 25, 2024




Page |  PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2










