
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF ANNUAL MEETING 

131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA 
October 16, 2025

Members Present:						Members Absent:
Dale Proulx, Chair						Nicole Waters, Treasurer
Linda McDonald, Vice Chair					Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member

Also Present:				
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director
Jade Tavares, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects
Suzanne Bonney, Director of Finance
Moises Ramos, Housing Manager Satellite Locations

Meeting Called to Order
Chair Dale Proulx asked for a roll call of members present: Dale Proulx-present, Linda McDonald-present, and Deborah A.H. Christen-present. Also present were Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie, Administrative Assistant/Special Projects Jade Tavares, Director of Finance Suzanne Bonney, and Housing Manager Satellite Locations Moises Ramos. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 1:30p.m. 
There was a discussion of the Annual Plan:
Tenant stated she is happy with the new windows.
There will be “parcel boxes” installed once the intercom project is finished.
Turnover expenses
The existing maintenance plan is working well.
Policies are up to date.
There were questions about the proposed Annual Plan Budget from the board. Assistant Executive Director to follow up. 

New Business
Resolution 2025-7 Approval of Annual Plan for Fiscal Year 2026. Motion made by Vice Chair to “attentively” approve the Annual Plan for Fiscal Year 2026. The Board Members requested Assistant Executive Director to follow up with Finance for clarification, which will be presented at the next board meeting. Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen seconded the motion, with all in favor.

Motion to Adjourn
There being no further business, Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 1:56p.m. Vice Chair seconded and with all in favor the meeting was adjourned.






Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Annual Meeting Minutes								                      October 16 2025




Page |  PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2










