===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 300TH ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE MINUTES 4/28/25
Members present: Michelle Belleza, Laura Brzozoski, Cathy Clark, Debbie Lincoln, 
Tony Sculimbrene, Chris Sullivan, Bill Tyler, Caesar Nuzzolo
Members Absent: Lois Filiau, Dawn Johnson
Guests: Paulette Beardmore, Jeanne Dupre, Ana Lockwood
The 300th Committee will represented at the Town Fair on May 10th. Thanks to Chris 
Sullivan, the $40 entry fee was waived. Laura, Bill, Caesar, Paulette, and Jeanne 
oﬀered to be present at the event. Bill will bring memorabilia the Historical Society has 
from the 250th and 275th celebrations. Laura can supply tent. There will be signup 
sheets for volunteers for 300th events as part of the Tricentennial Team. 
Chris will set up an email: lunenburg1728@gmail.com
Paulette Beardmore and Jeanne Dupre have submitted applications to serve on the 
Committee.
Tony motioned for approval of 12/9/24 minutes, seconded by Cathy with amended 
venue and corrected spelling of Laura’s name. The motion was approved 
unanimously.
As a followup to the resignation from the Committee of Chairman Peter Lincoln, Vice 
Chair Bill Tyler said he would consider being Co-Chair, but was not interested in 
serving as Chair. The Committee deferred electing a Chair until further investigation 
could be done as to who might be willing to serve in that capacity.
Bill Tyler reported a meeting he had with Fire Chief Pat Sullivan, Jim Lattanzi and Pete 
and Debbie Lincoln. Jim oﬀered his tree farm as a place to have a bonﬁre. Chief 
Sullivan indicated diﬃculty with staﬃng for such an event; Jim could cover that with 
Fitchburg and volunteers, also he has ample water supply and parking. It seems as 
though this is a great possibility for our event.
Guest Ana Lockwood brought up the possibility of using Whalom Lakefront as a 
venue using local businesses for parking and having shuttle buses.
The motion to adjourn at 8:19 by Laura, seconded by Tony was unanimously 
approved.
The next meeting is scheduled for August 25 at 7:00 at the library.

===PAGE 2===
