===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 300TH ANNIVERSARY MINUTES - APRIL 27, 2026
MEMBERS PRESENT: Michelle BellezaLaura Brzozoski, Cathy Clark, Jeanne Dupre, Lois Filiau, Dawn Johnson, Debbie 
Lincoln, Maura Lizek, Chris Sullivan, Bill Tyler, Caesar Nuzzolo, SB Liaison
Members Absent:  Paulette Beardmore
Debbie Lincoln was in contact with Paul Watts, who will be our point person for the Shriners for the parade. We are on 
their calendar for 9/10/28. No payment is necessary until the day of the parade. We should contact him again at the 
beginning of next year. Bill Tyler also has contact info. The price has now risen from $10,000 to $12,000 and will likely be 
$15,000 by 2028. Pete and Debbie Lincoln will cover expenses.
Pete Lincoln ran First Knight last time and has volunteered to be a resource for the time.
Maura Lizek has a Lunenburg, Vermont rock for the cairn, and is working on one from Germany. Nancy Beach has Nova 
Scotia contacts. There is a Lunenburg, Virginia County if we want to pursue that.
Lois Filiau has created a beautiful 300th ﬂower. It was voted to be sold at the Town Meeting for a minimum donation of 
$5.00, and also to have available at all town events, such as the Vendor Fair and the Car Show to raise awareness of the 
300th.
Can we add Applepay and other forms of credit pay so folks don’t have to use cash? Caesar will check on how 
donations can be made through the Town.
The minutes were accepted with the change of date.
First Knight pyrotechnics were discussed. Is there a company willing to do ﬁreworks at midnight for only 5 or 10 
minutes? Ask Chris Ruth if he could do them. Is it worth the money?
Would we do buttons as we did last time?
It was decided to have a short presentation at Town Meeting (5 slides or so) and also collect feedback for volunteers and 
what people want to have for events. Chris will work on a QR code.
Debbie will work with the COA on a Senior Calendar in the line of “Calendar Girls.”
There was a new logo submission form Hailee Attori and the Committee voted to use hers. Could it be used for the 
button?
The giant birthday cake is being refurbished by Lowell and we will take it when ﬁnished. Possible storage DPW?
Topics for next meeting:
	 Calendar of events
	 Volunteer activities
	 Uses of logo
	 Advertising	 
	 Fund raising
	 Merchandise
	 Time Capsule Contents
	 First Knight
Meeting was adjourned at 8:23.
Next meeting June 1st at the Eagle House.

===PAGE 2===
