===PAGE 1===
 
Supporting a Commonwealth of Communities 
mass.gov/DLS | P.O. Box 9569 Boston, MA 02114-9569 | (617) 626-2300 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MUNICIPAL GLOSSARY 
 
DIVISION OF LOCAL SERVICES 
 
JANUARY 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
Supporting a Commonwealth of Communities 
mass.gov/DLS | P.O. Box 9569 Boston, MA 02114-9569 | (617) 626-2300 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 1 
Abatement – A reduction or elimination of a real or 
personal property tax, motor vehicle excise, fee, 
charge, or special assessment imposed by a 
governmental unit. Granted only on application of the 
person seeking the abatement and only by the 
committing governmental unit.  
Accelerated New Growth  – MGL c 59 § 2A(a) is a 
local option statute that allows a community to value 
and assess new growth ( i.e., new construction or 
other physical additions to real property) occurring by 
June 30 for the fiscal year beginning Ju ly 1. This 
local adoption law, commonly referred to as Chapter 
653, allows the community to assess improved 
parcels, which ensures the property owner pays his 
fair share of the cost of government operations for 
the fiscal year beginning July 1 rather than a year 
later. 
Advance Refunding of Debt  – This occurs when 
new debt is issued to replace or redeem old debt 
before the maturity or call date of the old debt. Under 
these circumstances, the proceeds of the new debt 
must be placed in escrow and used to pay i nterest 
on old, outstanding debt as it becomes due and to 
pay the principal on the old debt, either as it matures 
or at an earlier call date. (See Refunding of Debt, 
Current Refunding of Debt) 
Agency Fund  – One of the four types of fiduciary 
funds. It is u sed to report resources in a purely 
custodial capacity by a governmental unit. Agency 
funds generally involve only the receipt, temporary 
investment, and periodic transfer of money to fulfill 
legal obligations to individuals, private organizations, 
or othe r governments. For example, certain 
employee payroll withholdings typically accumulate 
in an agency fund until due and subsequently 
forwarded to the federal government, health care 
provider, and so forth. 
Amended New Growth  – When the assessors 
discover inadvertently omitted properties that would 
have been new growth, they may submit an 
Amended Tax Base Growth Report (Form LA -13A) 
to BLA before setting the tax rate for the next fiscal 
year. BLA will certify the amount of any additional tax 
base growth and n otify BOA. BOA will then 
recalculate the community’s levy limit and notify the 
assessors of the new base for the purposes of 
calculating the succeeding year’s levy limit. 
Amortization – The gradual repayment of an 
obligation over time and in accordance wit h a 
predetermined payment schedule. 
Appellate Tax Board (ATB) – Appointed by the 
governor, the ATB has jurisdiction to decide appeals 
from local decisions relating to property taxes, motor 
vehicle excises, state -owned land  valuations, 
exemption eligibility , property classification, and 
equalized valuations. 
Appropriation – An authorization granted by a town 
meeting, city council or other legislative body to 
expend money and incur obligations for specific 
public purposes. An appropriation is usually limited 
in amount and as to the time period within which it 
may be expended. 
Arbitrage – As applied to municipal debt, the 
investment of tax-exempt bonds or note proceeds in 
higher yielding, taxable securities. Section 103 of the 
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Code restricts this 
practice and requires (beyond certain limits) tha t 
earnings be rebated (paid) to the IRS. 
Arm’s Length Sale  – A transfer of property 
ownership between a willing seller not under 
compulsion to sell and a willing buyer not under 
compulsion to buy. The sale price is the amount of 
money, or its equivalent, t hat probably would be 
arrived at through fair negotiations taking into 
consideration the uses to which the property may be 
put and allowing a reasonable time for exposure to 
the market. 
Assessed Valuation  – A value assigned to real 
estate or other property  by a government as the 
basis for levying taxes. In Massachusetts, assessed 
valuation is based on the property's full and fair cash 
value as set by the Assessors. (See Ad Valorem; Full 
And Fair Cash Value) 
===PAGE 4===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 2 
Assessment Date – The date property tax liability is 
fixed. In Massachusetts, property taxes are 
assessed as of the January 1 prior to the fiscal year. 
Assessors determine the physical status of taxable 
real and personal property, its ownership, fair cash 
value, and usage classification as of that date. B y 
local option (MGL c. 59 § 2D), the physical status of 
real property on June 30 is deemed to be its 
condition on the previous January 1. 
Assessment Sale Ratio (ASR) – Property assessed 
value divided by sales price. Expresses the 
relationship between the a ssessed value of a sold 
property and its most recent sales price. The ASR is 
instrumental in BLA’s certification of municipal 
property values completed every five years. 
Audit – An examination of a community's financial 
systems, procedures, and data by a c ertified public 
accountant (independent auditor) resulting in a 
report on the fairness of financial statements and 
local compliance with statutes and regulations. The 
audit serves as a valuable management tool  for 
evaluating a community’s fiscal performance. 
Audit Committee – A committee appointed by the 
select board, mayor, or city council with specific 
responsibility to review a community's independent 
audit of financial statements and address all issues 
relating to it, as well as those outlined in the 
accompanying management letter.  
Audit Management Letter  – An independent 
auditor's written communication to government 
officials, separate from the community's audit. It 
generally identifies deficient areas, if any, and 
presents recommendations for improving accounting 
procedures and other internal controls. 
Audit Report – Prepared by an independent auditor, 
an audit report includes: (a) a statement of the audit’s 
scope; (b) explanatory comments as to the 
application of auditing procedures; (c) findings and 
opinions; (d) financial statements and schedules; 
and (e) supplem entary comments, 
recommendations and statistical tables. It is very 
often accompanied by a management letter. 
Available Funds  – Balances in the various fund 
types that represent nonrecurring revenue sources. 
As a matter of sound practice, they are frequent ly 
appropriated for unforeseen expenses, capital 
expenditures, or other one -time costs. Examples of 
available funds include free cash, stabilization funds, 
overlay surplus, water surplus, and retained 
earnings. 
Balance Sheet  – A statement that discloses th e 
assets, liabilities, reserves, and equities of a fund or 
governmental unit as of a specified date. 
Bank Qualified – When a municipality issues 
$10,000,000 or less in bonds or notes in a calendar 
year, these issuances are designated as “bank 
qualified.” T he bank that purchases the security 
receives a tax deduction (80% of the interest cost) 
for this type of purchase. This deduction makes bank 
qualified bonds and notes attractive purchases. 
Betterments (Special Assessments)  – Whenever 
part of a community be nefits from a public 
improvement or betterment ( e.g., water, sewer, 
sidewalks, etc.), special property taxes may be 
assessed to that area’s property owners to 
reimburse the governmental entity for all or part of 
the costs it incurred to complete the projec t. Each 
property parcel receiving the benefit is assessed a 
proportionate share of the cost, which may be paid 
in full or apportioned over a period of up to 20 years. 
If spread over the years, the community adds one 
year’s apportionment along with one year ’s 
committed interest computed from October 1 to 
October 1 to the associated tax bills  until the 
betterment has been paid. 
BLA – Bureau of Local Assessment 
Block Grant – A federal grant of money awarded by 
formula under very general guidelines that allow 
grantees broad latitude in spending activities.  
BOA – Bureau of Accounts 
Boat Excise – In accordance with MGL c. 60B, this 
is an amount levied on boats and ships in li eu of a 
personal property tax for the privilege of using the 
state’s waterways. Assessed annually as of July 1, 
===PAGE 5===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 3 
the excise is paid to the community where the boat 
or ship is usually moored or docked. 
Bond – A means to raise money through the 
issuance of de bt. A bond issuer/borrower promises 
in writing to repay a specified sum of money, 
alternately referred to as face value, par value or 
bond principal, to the buyer of the bond on a 
specified future date (maturity date), together with 
periodic interest at a specified rate. The term of a 
bond is always greater than one year. (See Note) 
Bond and Interest Record (Bond Register) – The 
permanent and complete record maintained by a 
treasurer for each bond issue. It shows the amount 
of interest and principal coming due each date and 
all other pertinent information concerning the bond 
issue. (See Debt Statement) 
Bond Anticipation Note (BAN) – Short-term debt 
instrument used to generate cash for initial project 
costs with the expectation the debt will be replaced 
later by permanent bonding. Typically issued for a 
term of less than one year, BANs may be reissued 
for up to 10 years, provided principal repayment 
begins after two years (MGL c. 44 § 17).  
Bond Authorization – The action of town meeting 
or a city council auth orizing the executive branch to 
raise money through the sale of bonds in a specific 
amount and for a specific purpose. Once authorized, 
issuance is by the treasurer upon the signature of the 
mayor or the board of selectmen. (See Bond Issue) 
Bond Counsel – An attorney or law firm engaged to 
review and submit an opinion on the legal aspects of 
a municipal bond or note issue. 
Bond Issue – The actual sale of the entire, or portion 
of, the bond amount authorized by a town meeting or 
city council. 
Bond Premium  – The difference between the 
market price of a bond and its face value (when the 
market price is higher). A premium occurs when the 
bond’s stated interest rate is set higher than its true 
interest cost (the market rate). Premiums received at 
the time of sale  must be used to pay project costs 
and reduce the amount borrowed by the same 
amount or be reserved for appropriation for purposes 
for which debt has or may be authorized for an equal 
or longer period than the original loan. Additions to 
the levy limit for a Proposition 2 ½ debt exclusion are 
restricted to the true interest cost incurred to finance 
the excluded project. If the premium is not used to 
pay project costs and reduce the amount of a debt -
excluded borrowing, the annual debt exclusion must 
be adjusted to reflect the true interest rate. 
Bond Rating (Municipal) – A credit rating assigned 
to a municipality to help investors assess the future 
ability, legal obligation, and willingness of the 
municipality (bond issuer) to make timely debt 
service payments. Stated otherwise, a rating helps 
prospective investors determine the level of risk 
associated with a given fixed -income investment. 
Rating agencies, such as Moody's and Standard & 
Poor’s, use rating systems that designate a letter or 
a combination of letters and numerals, where AAA is 
the highest rating and C1 is very low. 
Bonds Authorized and Unissued  – Balance of a 
bond authorization not yet sold. Upon completion or 
abandonment of a project, any remaining balance of 
authorized and unissued bonds may not be used for 
other purposes but must be rescinded by town 
meeting or the city council to be removed from 
community's books. 
Bulk Sale of Tax Receivables  – A community may 
make bulk assignments of its delinquent property tax 
receivables and liens to third parties (MGL c. 60 § 
2C). DLS recommends municipal officers discuss 
whether to use this authority and what receivables 
would be assigned.  
Bureau of Accounts (BOA) – A bureau within the 
Division of Local Services charged with overseeing 
municipal execution of financial management laws, 
rules and regulations. 
Bureau of Local Assessment  (BLA) – Bureau 
within the Division of Local Services charged with 
overseeing municipal execution of state laws, rules 
and regulations involving real and personal property 
assessments. BLA is also responsible for 
===PAGE 6===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 4 
determining equalized valuations and overseeing the 
valuation of state-owned land. 
Capital Asset – Any tangible property used in the 
operation of government that is not easily converted 
into cash and that has an initial  useful life extending 
beyond a single financial reporting period. Capital 
assets include land and land improvements; 
infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, water and 
sewer lines; easements; buildings and building 
improvements; vehicles, machinery and equ ipment. 
Communities typically define capital assets in terms 
of a minimum useful life and minimum initial cost.  
Capital Budget – An appropriation or spending plan 
that uses borrowing or direct outlay for capital or 
fixed asset improvements. Among other information, 
a capital budget should identify the method to 
finance each recommended expenditure (e.g., tax 
levy or rates) and identify those items that were not 
recommended.  
Capital Improvement Program  – A blueprint for 
planning a community's capital expenditures that 
comprises an annual capital budget and a five -year 
capital plan. It coordinates community planning, 
fiscal capacity, and physical development. While all 
the community’s needs should be ide ntified in the 
program, there is a set of criteria that prioritize the 
expenditures. 
Capital Outlay – The exchange of one asset (cash) 
for another (capital asset) with no ultimate effect on 
net assets. Also known as "pay as you go," it is the 
appropriation and use of available cash to fund a 
capital improvement, as opposed to incurring debt to 
cover the cost. 
Capital Outlay Expenditure Exclusion  – A 
temporary increase in the tax levy to fund a capital 
project or to make a capital acquisition. Such an 
exclusion requires a two-thirds vote of the selectmen 
or city council (sometimes with the mayor's approval) 
and a majority vote in a communitywide referendum. 
The exclusion is added to the tax levy only during the 
year in which the project is being funded and ma y 
increase the tax levy above the levy ceiling. 
Cash Book – A source book of original entry that a 
treasurer is required to maintain for the purpose of 
recording municipal receipts, adjustments to 
balances, deposits to municipal accounts, and 
disbursements through warrants. 
Categorical Grant  – A type of intergovernmental 
payment that is characterized by extensive 
restrictions on the uses to which the funds may be 
“spent” by the recipient government. 
Chapter 70 School Aid  – Chapter 70 refers to the 
school funding formula created under the Education 
Reform Act of 1993 by which state aid is distributed 
through the Cherry Sheet to help establish 
educational equity among municipal and regional 
school districts. 
Chapter 90 High way Funds – State funds derived 
from periodic transportation bond authorizations and 
apportioned to communities for highway projects 
(MGL c. 90 §  34). Chapter Land  – Forest, 
agricultural/horticultural, and recreational lands 
classified, valued, and taxed according to MGL c. 61, 
61A, and 61B. Land is valued at its current use rather 
than the full and fair cash value. The commercial 
property tax rate is applicable for land defined under 
these chapters, unless the community adopts a local 
option provision with in each chapter to apply the 
open space rate. 
Cherry Sheet – Named for the cherry-colored paper 
on which they were originally printed, the Cherry 
Sheet is the official notification to cities, towns, and 
regional school districts of the next fiscal year’s state 
aid and assessments. The aid is in the form of 
distributions, which provide funds based on formulas 
and reimbursements that provide funds for costs 
incurred during a prior period for certain programs or 
services. 
Cherry Sheet Assessments – Estimates of annual 
charges to cover the costs of certain state and 
county programs.  
Cherry Sheet Offset Items – Local aid that may be 
spent without appropriation in the budget but which 
must be spent for specific municipal and regional 
school district programs. Current offset items include 
===PAGE 7===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 5 
racial equality grants, school lunch grants, and public 
library grants. (See Offset Receipts) 
Classification of Real Property  – Assessors are 
required to classify all real property according to use 
into one of four classes: reside ntial, open space, 
commercial, and industrial. Having classified the real 
property, local officials are permitted to determine 
locally, within limits established by statute and the 
Commissioner of Revenue, what percentage of the 
tax burden is to be borne b y each class of real 
property and by personal property owners.  
Classification of the Tax Rate  – Each year, the 
select board or city council vote whether to exercise 
certain tax rate options. Those options include 
choosing a residential factor (MGL c. 40 § 56), and 
determining whether to offer an open space 
discount, a residential exemption ( c. 59, §  5C), 
and/or a small commercial exemption (c. 59, § 5I) to 
property owners. 
Code of Ethics – The provisions and requirements 
of MGL c. 286A pertaining to the st andards of 
behavior and conduct to which all public officials and 
employees are held. (See State Ethics Commission) 
Collective Bargaining – The process of negotiating 
workers' wages, hours, benefits, working conditions, 
etc., between an employer and some o r all of its 
employees, who are represented by a recognized 
labor union. 
Commitment – This establishes the liability for 
individual taxpayers. For example, the assessors' 
commitment of real estate taxes fixes the amount the 
collector will bill and collect from property owners. 
Community Preservation Act (CPA) – Enacted as 
MGL c. 44B in 2000, the CPA permits cities and 
towns accepting its provisions to establish a 
restricted fund from which monies can be 
appropriated only for a) the acquisition, creation and 
preservation of open space; b) the acquisition, 
preservation, rehabilitation, and restoration of 
historic resources; c) the acquisition, creation, 
preservation, rehabilitation, and restoration of land 
for recreational use; d) the acquisition, creation, 
preservation and support of community housing; e) 
the rehabilitation and restoration of open space or 
community housing that is acquired or created using 
monies from the fund; and (f) a municipal affordable 
housing trust. Acceptance requires town meeting or 
city council approval or a citizen petition, together 
with referendum approval by majority vote. The local 
program is funded by a local surcharge up to 3 
percent on real property tax bills and matching 
dollars from the state generat ed from registry of 
deeds fees. 
Community Preservation Fund  – A special 
revenue fund established pursuant to MGL c. 44B to 
receive all monies collected to support a CPA 
program, including but not limited to, tax surcharge 
receipts, proceeds from borrowings, funds received 
from the state, and proceeds from the sale of certain 
real estate. 
Computer Assisted Mass Appraisal (CAMA) 
System – An automated system for maintaining 
property data, valuing property , and ensuring tax 
equity through uniform valuations. 
Conservation Fund  – A city or town may 
appropriate money to a conservation fund, which 
may be expended by the conservation commission 
for lawful conservation purposes as described in 
MGL c. 40 § 8C. The money may also be expended 
by the conservation commission for damages arising 
from an eminent domain taking provided that the 
taking was approved by a two -thirds vote of city 
council or town meeting. 
Contingent Appropriation  – An appropriation that 
authorizes spending for a particular purpose only if 
subsequently approved in a voter referendum. Under 
MGL c. 59 §  21C (m), towns may make 
appropriations from the tax levy, available funds , or 
borrowing contingent on the subsequent passage of 
a Proposition 2½ override or exclusion question for 
the same purpose. If initially approv ed at an annual 
town meeting, voter approval of the contingent 
appropriation must occur by September 15. 
Otherwise, the referendum vote must occur within 90 
days after the town meeting dissolves. The question 
may be placed before the voters at more than on e 
election, but if the appropriation is not approved by 
===PAGE 8===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 6 
the applicable deadline, it is null and void. If 
contingent appropriations are funded through 
property taxes, DLS cannot approve the tax rate until 
the related override or exclusion question is resolved 
or the deadline passes, whichever occurs first. 
Contingent Debt  – Debt that is not in the first 
instance payable as a direct obli gation of the 
governmental unit  but has been guaranteed by a 
pledge of its faith and credit. The obligation to pay by 
the gu arantor arises upon the default of the 
borrower. An industrial revenue bond guaranteed by 
a municipality would constitute contingent debt. 
Contingent Liabilities  – Items that may become 
liabilities as the result of conditions undetermined at 
a given date, such as guarantees, pending law suits, 
judgments under appeal, unsettled disputed claims, 
unfilled purchase orders, and uncompleted 
contracts. 
Corporations Book  (the Corp Book) – Annually 
updated and published by DLS , the Corp Book 
provides a listing of the domestic and foreign 
corporations doing business in Massachusetts as of 
January 1 that are subject to a tax or excise under 
MGL Chap. 59 (local property tax), 60A (motor 
vehicle excise), or 63 (corporation excises). The 
listing provides useful information to assessors about 
the taxable s tatus of businesses located in the ir 
community. 
Cost Approach  – A method used to estimate the 
present market value of an existing property by 
calculating the current cost to rebuild it, then 
adjusting the cost downward for depreciation based 
on the property's actual age. Land is valued 
separately and added to the de preciated 
replacement cost. 
Current Refunding of Debt  – The process of 
immediately applying proceeds of refunding debt to 
redeem the old debt. That is, the maturity date on the 
old debt coincides with the issuance date of the new 
borrowing obligation. (See  Refunding of Debt and 
Advance Refunding of Debt) 
Cyclical Inspection Program – A cyclical 
reinspection program involves completing an interior 
and exterior inspecti on of all property over a 
multiyear period, not exceeding nine years. 
Data Collection  – Process of inspecting real and 
personal property and recording its attributes, 
quality, and condition. 
Debt Authorization  – Formal approval by a two -
thirds vote of town meeting or city council to incur 
debt, in accordance with procedures stated in MGL 
c. 44 §§ 1, 2, 3, 4a, 6-15. 
Debt Burden  – The amount of debt carried by an 
issuer usually exp ressed as a measure of value 
(e.g., debt as a percentage of assessed value, debt 
per capita, etc.). Sometimes debt burden refers to 
debt service costs as a percentage of the total 
annual budget. 
Debt Exclusion – An action taken by a community 
through a referendum vote to raise the funds 
necessary to pay debt service costs for a particular 
project from the property tax levy  but outside of the 
limits under Proposition 2½. By  approving a debt 
exclusion, a community calculates its annual levy 
limit under Proposition 2½, then adds the excluded 
debt service cost. The amount is added to the levy 
limit for the life of the debt only and may increase the 
levy above the levy ceiling. 
Debt Limit  – The maximum amount of debt a 
municipality may authorize for qualified purposes 
under state law. Under MGL c. 44 § 10, debt limits 
are set at 5 percent of EQV. By petition to the 
Municipal Finance Oversight Board, a community 
can receive approv al to increase its debt limit to 10 
percent of EQV. 
Debt Service – The repayment cost, usually stated 
in annual terms and based on an amortization 
schedule, of the principal and interest on any 
particular bond issue. 
Debt Service Fund – Governmental fund type used 
to account for the accumulation or resources for, and 
the payment of, general long-term debt principal and 
interest. In Massachusetts, these are only allowed by 
special legislation. 
===PAGE 9===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 7 
Debt Statement – A report that local treasurers are 
required to file with DLS showing the authorized and 
issued debt, retired debt, and interest paid by a 
community during the prior fiscal year, as well as 
authorized but unissued debt at year -end. Also 
known as the "Statement of Indebtedness." 
Deferred Revenue – Amounts that do not meet the 
criteria for revenue recognition. Also, earned 
amounts that are not yet available to liquidate 
liabilities of a current period. 
Deficit – The excess of expenditures over revenues 
during an accounting period. Also refers to the 
excess of the liabilities of a fund over its assets. 
Deficit Bonds  – Long-term borrowing vehicle 
intended to fund operating deficits and available to 
cities and towns only through special legislation. 
Demand Notice  – When a tax b ill becomes past 
due, the collector sends a demand notice requesting 
payment. The collector is required to issue a demand 
before initiating a tax taking. 
Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education (DESE) – State department providing 
resources to scho ol administrators, teachers, 
students and parents in Massachusetts. The DESE 
Finance section deals with a wide range of school 
finance issues and takes a major role in determining 
state aid to municipalities for education via the Local 
Aid projects that make up the Cherry Sheet process. 
Deputy Collector  – A vendor empowered to take 
enforcement and collection actions on behalf of a 
community’s collector. 
Designated Unreserved Fund Balance  – A 
limitation on the use of all  or part of the expendable 
balance in a governmental fund. 
DLS – The Dep artment of Revenue’s Division of 
Local Services 
Emergency Spending – MGL c. 44 § 31 allows a 
community to spend in excess of appropriation in 
cases of major disasters that pose immediate threats 
to the health or safety of people or property, following 
an emergency declaration by the Governor or two -
thirds vote of the council or select board  and the 
approval of the Director of Accounts. 
Encumbrance – A reservation of funds to cover an 
obligation arising from a purchase order, contract, or 
salary commitment  chargeable to, but not yet paid 
from, a specific appropriation account. 
Enterprise Fund  – Authorized by MGL c. 44 §  
53F½, an enterprise fund is a separate accounting 
and financial reporting mechanism for municipal 
services for which a fee is charged in exchange for 
goods or services. It allows a community to 
demonstrate to the public the portion of a service’s 
total costs recovered through user charges and the 
portion subsidized by the tax levy, if any. With an 
enterprise fund, all costs of service delivery --direct, 
indirect, and capital --are identified. This allows the 
community to recover total service costs through 
user fees if it chooses. Enterprise accounting also 
enables communities to reserve the "surplus ," or 
retained earnings , generated by the enterprise 
operation rather than closing this out to the general 
fund at year -end. Services that may be treated as 
enterprises include, but are not limited to, water, 
sewer, hospital, and airport services.  
Equalized Valuations (EQVs) – An estimate of the 
full and fair cash value (FFCV) of all property in the 
state as of a certain taxable date. EQVs have 
historically been used as a variable in distributing 
some state aid accounts and in determining county 
assessments and other costs. The Commissioner of 
Revenue, in accordance with MGL c. 58 § 10C, is 
charged with the responsibility o f biennially  
determining an equalized valuation for each city and 
town in the state. 
Excess and Deficiency  (E&D) – Also called the 
"surplus revenue" account, this is the amount by 
which cash, accounts receivable, and other assets 
exceed a regional school district’s liabilities and 
reserves as certified by the Director of Accounts. The 
calculation is based on a year -end balance  sheet 
submitted to DLS by the district’s auditor, 
accountant, or comptroller. E&D is not available for 
appropriation until certified by the Director of 
Accounts. 
===PAGE 10===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 8 
Excess Levy Capacity  – The difference between 
the levy limit and the amount of rea l and personal 
property taxes actually levied in a given year. 
Annually, the select board  or city council must be 
informed of excess levy capacity and their 
acknowledgment must be submitted to DLS when 
setting the tax rate. 
Exemption – A discharge, establi shed by statute, 
from the obligation to pay all or a portion of a property 
tax. The exemption is available to particular 
categories of property or persons upon the timely 
submission and approval of an application to the 
assessors. Properties exempt from ta xation include 
hospitals, schools, houses of worship, and cultural 
institutions. Persons who may qualify for exemptions 
include disabled veterans, blind individuals, 
surviving spouses, and seniors. 
Exemption Date – Real estate tax exemption status 
is determined as of July 1. All qualifying factors must 
be met as of that date. 
Expenditure – An outlay of money made by a 
municipality to provide the programs and services 
within its approved budget. 
Federal Aid Anticipation Note (FAAN) – Short-
term debt instrument used to generate cash with the 
expectation that the debt will be paid from anticipated 
federal aid. As  with a note, FAANs  are typically 
issued for a term of less than one year and are full 
faith and credit obligations. 
Fiduciary Funds – Repository of mo ney held by a 
municipality in a trustee capacity or as an agent for 
individuals, private organizations, other 
governmental units, and other funds. These include 
pension (and other employee benefit) trust funds, 
investment trust funds, private -purpose trust funds, 
and agency funds. 
Field Review Audit  – A review of assessment 
valuation methods and support documentation by 
the BLA performed as a prerequisite to a five-year 
certification of property values. 
Finance Control Board  – A board created by 
special legislation and comprised of state officials to 
oversee the financial management of a community, 
which may have received deficit borrowing 
authorization or state loans to finance operating 
deficits. 
Financial Advisor – An individual or institution that 
assists municipalities in the issuance of tax exempt 
bonds and notes. The public finance department of 
a commercial bank or a non -bank advisor usually 
provides this service. 
Financial Disclosure Law – MGL c. 268B requires 
certain individuals, officials and candi dates for 
elected office to file stateme nts of financial interests 
with the State Ethics Commission. 
Financial Statement – A presentation of the assets 
and liabilities of a community as of a particular date, 
most often after the close of the fiscal year. 
Fiscal Year (FY) – Since 1974, the Commonwealth 
and municipalities have operated on a budget cycle 
that begins July 1 and ends June 30. Since 1976, the 
federal government fiscal year has begun on 
October 1 and ended September 30. In each case, 
the designati on of the fiscal year is that of the 
calendar year in which the fiscal year ends.  
Fixed Assets – Long-lived, tangible assets, such as 
buildings, equipment and land , obtained or 
controlled as a result of past transactions or 
circumstances. 
Fixed Costs  – Costs legally or contractually 
mandated, such as retirement, FICA/Social Security, 
insurance, debt service, or interest on loans. 
Foundation Budget – The spending target imposed 
by DESE for each school district as the level 
necessary to provide an adequate education for all 
students. 
Free Cash  – Remaining, unrestricted funds from 
operations of the previous fiscal year , including 
unexpended free cash from the previous year, actual 
receipts in excess of revenue estimated  on the tax 
recapitulation sheet, and unspent amounts in budget 
line items. Unpaid property taxes and certain deficits 
reduce the amount that can be certified as free cash. 
===PAGE 11===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 9 
The calculation of free cash is based on the June 30 
balance sheet, which is submitted by the 
community's auditor,  accountant, or comptroller. 
Free cash is not available for appropriation until 
certified by the Director of Accounts. (See Available 
Funds) 
Full and Fair Cash Value  – The Massachusetts 
Supreme Judicial Court defines f air cash value as  
the "fair market va lue, which is the price an owner 
willing but not under compulsion to sell ought to 
receive from one willing but not under compulsion to 
buy. It means the highest price that a normal 
purchaser not under peculiar compulsion will pay at 
the time, and cannot exceed the sum that the owner 
after reasonable effort could obtain for his property. 
A valuation limited to what the property is worth to 
the purchaser is not market value. The fair cash 
value is the value the property would have on 
January 1 of any taxable  year in the hands of any 
owner, including the present owner.”  (Boston Gas 
Co. v. Assessors of Boston, 334 Mass. 549, 566 
(1956)) 
Full Faith and Credit Obligations – A pledge of the 
general taxing powers for the payment of 
governmental obligations. Bonds c arrying such 
pledges are usually referred to as general obligation 
or full-faith-and-credit bonds. 
Full Measure and List  – An inspection program 
completed by assessors to maintain up -to-date 
property records. Propertie s are literally measured 
and re listed in the assessors' records with any 
changes in cond ition since the last inspection. Also 
referred to as a cyclical inspection program, BLA 
recommends a full measure and list be completed 
once in every nine-year cycle. 
Fund – An accounting entity with a self-balancing set 
of accounts that is segregated for the purpose of 
carrying on identified activities or attaining certain 
objectives in accordance with specific regulations, 
restrictions, or limitations.  Within a fund, financial 
resources and activity (asset s, liabilities, fund 
balances, revenues, and expenditures) are 
accounted for independently. Examples of funds 
include the general fund and enterprise funds.  
Fund Accounting – Organizing the financial records 
of a municipality into multiple, segregated loc ations 
for money. Communities whose accounts are 
organized according to the Uniform Municipal 
Accounting System (UMAS) use multiple funds. 
Fund Balance – The difference between assets and 
liabilities reported in a governmental fund. Also 
known as fund equity.  
General Fund – The fund used to account for most 
financial resources and activities gove rned by the 
normal town meeting or city council appropriation 
process. 
General Fund Subsidy  – Most often used in the 
context of enterprise funds. When  the reve nue 
generated by rates or user fees  is insufficient to 
cover the cost to provide a particular service, general 
fund money is used to close the gap in the form of a 
subsidy. The subsidy may or may not be recovered 
by the general fund in subsequent years. 
General Ledger (GL) – The accountant's record of 
original entry, a general ledger is a set of numbered 
accounts used to track financial transactions and 
prepare financial reports. Each account is a distinct 
record summarizing each type of  asset, liability, 
equity, revenue and expense. A  chart of 
accounts lists all the accounts in the general ledger. 
General Obligation Bonds  – Bonds issued by a 
municipality that are backed by the full faith and 
credit of its taxing authority. 
Government Finance Officers Associ ation 
(GFOA) – A nationwide association of public finance 
professionals. 
Governmental Accounting Standards Board 
(GASB) – The ultimate authoritative accounting and 
financial reporting standard -setting body for state 
and local governments. 
Governmental Exte rnal Investment Pool  – An 
arrangement that commingles money of multiple, 
legally separate entities and invests in an investment 
portfolio on the participants’ behalf . A pool can be 
sponsored by an individual government, jointly by 
===PAGE 12===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 10 
multiple governments, or by a nongovernmental 
entity. An example is the Massachusetts Municipal 
Depository Trust. 
Governmental Funds  – Funds generally used to 
account for tax -supported activities . There are five 
different types of governmental funds: general, 
special revenue , capi tal project , debt service, and 
permanent. 
Grant Anticipation Notes (GAN) – Short-term, 
interest-bearing notes issued by a government to 
raise capital to be repaid by grant proceeds  
anticipated at a later date. GANs  allow the recipient 
of the grant to begin carrying out the purpose of the 
grant immediately. 
Home Rule – Refers to the power of municipalities 
to r egulate their affairs by bylaws /ordinances or 
home rule charters subject to certain limitations. 
Home Rule Charter – An alternative, under MGL c. 
43B, to create a charter commission by which cities 
and towns may create, adopt, revise and amend 
local charters. 
Income Approach  – A method of estimating 
property value by converting  anticipated net rental 
revenue generated by the property into an indication 
of market value. Used primarily to value 
commercial/industrial properties and apartment 
buildings, which are normally bought and sold on the 
basis of their income producing capabilities. 
Indirect Cost – Costs of a service not reflected in 
the operating budget of the entity providing the 
service. The matter of indirect costs arises most 
often in the context of enterprise funds. An example 
of an indirect cost of providing water service would 
be the value of time spent by non-water-department 
employees who process water bills. A determination 
of these costs is necessary to analyze the total cost 
of service delivery.  
Informational Guideline Release (IGR) – Provided 
on the DLS website, IGRs are DLS publications that 
outline a policy or administrative procedure  or that 
provide a law update related to municipal finance. 
Inside Debt – Municipal debt incurred for purpos es 
enumerated in MGL c. 44, §  7 and within the 
community's debt limit, which is an amount no higher 
than fiv e percent of the community’s equalized 
valuation. Because this type of  borrowing is below 
the debt limit , it is referred to as inside debt. (See 
Outside Debt) 
Interest – Compensation paid or to be paid for the 
use of money, including amounts payable at periodic 
intervals or discounted at the time a loan is made. In 
the case of municipal bonds, interest paymen ts 
accrue on a day -to-day basis but are paid every six 
months. 
Interest Rate – The interest payable, expressed as 
a percentage of the principal available, for use during 
a specified period of time. It is always expressed in 
annual terms. 
Interim-year Valuation Adjustment  – State law 
requires that local assessed value s reflect market 
value every year. Every five years, BLA reviews and 
certifies that an individual comm unity's assessed 
values meet this  standard. In between these five-
year revaluations, a community must complete an 
annual analysis to determine whether an interim-
year value adjustment is warranted and report the 
results to BLA. Depending on market conditions and 
property value trends, adjustments may increase or 
decrease values or leave them unchanged. 
Internal Service Fund  – A municipal accounting 
fund used to accumulate the cost of central services, 
such as data processing, printing, postage, and 
motor pool. Costs or charges to an internal service 
fund are then allocated to other departments or funds 
within the governmental unit. 
Investments – Securities and real estate held for the 
production of income in the form of interest, 
dividends, rentals, or lease payments. The term does 
not include fixed assets used in governmental 
operations. 
Joint Labor Management Committee (JLMC) – 
The JLMC’s purpose is to mediate police officer or 
fire fighter collective bargaining disputes with 
municipalities when negotiations reach  impasses. 
===PAGE 13===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 11 
The JLMC only enters a collective bargaining 
process when petitioned to do so by either party or 
by both parties acing jointly. 
Land Court – Established in 1898, the Land Court 
has the exclusive jurisdiction to foreclose rights of 
redemption on a property in tax title. 
Land of Low Value (MGL c. 60 § 79) – After 90 days 
from the date of a tax taking, the treasurer may work 
with the assessors to pursue a land of low value 
foreclosure through DLS, an alternative foreclosure 
procedure to seeking a Land Court decree. Annually, 
DLS publishes the maximum valuation of parcels 
qualifying for the land of low value foreclosure 
procedure. 
Land Schedule – Typically developed by assessors 
and revaluation consultants, this is a table  used to 
arrive at consistent assessed values for land within 
defined neighborhoods.  
Legal Opinion (re: debt issuance) – An opinion by 
an attorney or law firm that bonds have been legally 
issued by a public body, and, usually, that the bonds 
are exempt from federal income taxes and some 
Massachusetts taxes under existing laws, 
regulations, and rulings. 
Levy – The amount a community raises through the 
property tax. The levy can be any amount up  to the 
levy limit, which is re established every year in 
accordance with Proposition 2½ provisions. 
Levy Ceiling – A levy ceiling is one of two types of 
levy (tax) restrictions imposed by MGL  c. 59 § 21C 
(Proposition 2½). It states that, in any year, the real 
and personal property taxes imposed may not 
exceed 2½ percent of the total full and fair cash value 
of all taxable property. Property taxes levied may 
exceed this limit only if the commun ity passes a 
capital exclusion, debt exclusion, or special 
exclusion.  
Levy Limit – A levy limit is one of two types of levy 
(tax) restrictions imposed by MGL c. 59 §  21C 
(Proposition 2½). It states that the real and personal 
property taxes imposed by a ci ty or town may only 
grow each year by 2½ percent of the prior year's levy 
limit, plus new growth and any overrides or 
exclusions. The levy limit can exceed the levy ceiling 
only if the community passes a capital expenditure 
exclusion, debt exclusion, or special exclusion.  
Lien – A legal claim against real or personal property 
to protect the interest of a party (e.g., a city or town) 
to whom a debt is owed ( e.g., taxes). In the case of 
real property, the lien in favor of a municipality 
automatically arises each January 1, but it must be 
secured through other action.  
Lien Date – The date a lien arises on real property 
to protect the municipality’s right to payment of taxes. 
Property tax liens arise by law on the January 1 
assessment date. The lien is secured when the 
collector makes a tax taking and places the property 
in tax title. Unless the lien is secured, it expires if five 
years elapse from the January 1 ass essment date 
and the property is transferred in the meantime.  
Line-item Budget  – A budget that stratifies 
spending into categories  of greater detail, such as 
supplies, equipment, maintenance, or salaries, as 
opposed to a program budget. 
Line-item Transfer – The reallocation of a budget  
appropriation between two line items within an 
expenditure category (e.g., salaries, expenses). 
Employed as a management tool, line -item transfer 
authority allows department heads to move money 
where a need arises for a simi lar purpose without 
altering the bottom line. Whether or not line -item 
transfers are permitted depends on how the budget 
is presented (i.e., its format) and what level of budget 
detail town meeting approves. 
Local Aid – Revenue allocated by the state to cities, 
towns, and regional school districts. Estimates of 
local aid are transmitted to cities, towns, and districts 
annually by the Cherry Sheets.  Most Cherry Sheet 
aid programs are considered general fund revenues 
and may be spent for any purpose, subject to 
appropriation. 
Local Receipts – Locally generated revenues other 
than real and personal property taxes. Examples 
include motor vehicle excise, investment income, 
hotel/motel tax, fees, rentals, and charges.  
===PAGE 14===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 12 
Long-term Debt  – Community borrowing, or 
outstanding balance at any given time, involving 
loans with a maturity date of 12 months or more. 
(See Permanent Debt) 
Massachusetts Certified Public Purchasing 
Official (MCPPO) – A certification and designation 
program for public officials responsible for municipal 
procurements in Massachusetts. (See Uniform 
Procurement Act) 
Massachusetts Municipal Depository Trust 
(MMDT) – An investment program, founded in 1977 
under the supervision of the State Treasurer, in 
which municipalities may pool excess cash for 
investment. 
Massachusetts School Building Authority 
(MSBA) – Administers the state program that 
reimburses cities, towns, and regional school 
districts varying percentages of their school 
construction costs depending on the community’s or 
district’s wealth and the category of reimbursement. 
Material Weakness – An audit term for a significant 
deficiency in a community’s internal financial 
controls. It is a reportable condition (internal control 
weakness) of such magnitude as to potentially result 
in material misstatements of financial condition. 
Maturity Date – The date that the principal of a bond 
becomes due and payable in full. 
MGL – Massachusetts General Laws 
Minimum Required Local Contribution – The 
minimum that a city or t own must appropriate from 
property taxes and other local revenues for the 
support of schools (Education Reform Act of 1993). 
Minimum Residential Factor (MRF) – 
Massachusetts’ law allows for a shift of the tax 
burden from the residential and open space clas ses 
of property to the commercial, industrial and 
personal property classes (CIP). The MRF, 
established by the Commissioner of Revenue, is 
used to make certain the tax burden shift complies 
with the law. If the MRF would be less than .65, the 
community can not make the maximum shift and 
must use a CIP factor less than 1.50 percent. Under 
specified conditions, some communities may use a 
CIP factor of up to 1.75 percent.  
Motor Vehicle Excise  – A locally imposed annual 
tax assessed to owners of motor vehicles registered 
to address es within the community ( MGL c.  60A). 
The excise tax rate is set by statute at $25.00 per 
$1,000 of vehicle value. 
Multiple Regression – A technique for valuing real 
property that uses an equation generated through 
sales analysis to estimate the value of unsold 
properties. 
Municipal(s) (As used in the bond trade) -
"Municipal" refers to any state or subordinate 
governmental unit. Municipals (i.e., municipal bonds) 
include not only the bonds of all political 
subdivisions, such as cities, towns, school districts, 
and special districts but also bonds of the state and 
agencies of the state. 
Municipal Bond Insurance – An insurance policy 
that guarantees the interest and principal on a bond 
issue will be paid as scheduled. The municipal bond 
insurer will pay the debt whether or not the default 
was caused by an economic crisis or a natural 
disaster. 
Municipal Charges Lien  – For delinquent water 
(MGL c. 40 §§ 42A-F), sewer (MGL c. 83 §§ 16A-F), 
and trash (MGL c. 44 §  28C(f)) charges, a 
community may lien these amounts on the property 
tax, provided the enabling legislation is accepted and 
a certificate of acceptance is on file at the Registry of 
Deeds. For other unpaid local charges and fees, a 
community may adopt MGL c. 40 § 58 separately for 
each purpose in order to lien each upon the property 
tax. The lien is created by recording a listing of a 
particular type of charge or fee (by parcel of land and 
by name) at the Registry of Deeds. 
Municipal Finance Oversight Board  – This board 
(consisting of the attorney general, state treasurer, 
state auditor, and director of accounts) approves use 
of qualified bonds and certain other municipal 
borrowings and other actions.  
===PAGE 15===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 13 
Municipal Revenue Growth Factor (MRGF) – An 
estimate of the percentage change in a municipality's 
revenue growth for a fiscal year. It represents the 
combined percentage increase in the following 
revenue components: automatic 2½ percent 
increase in the levy limit, estimated new growth, 
change in selected unrestricted state aid categories, 
and the change in selected unrestricted local 
receipts (Education Reform Act of 1993). 
Net School Spending (NSS) – School budget and 
municipal budget amounts attributable to education, 
excluding long -term debt service, student 
transportation, school lunches , and certain other 
specified school expenditures. A community’s NSS 
funding must equal or exceed the NSS Requirement 
established annually by the Department of 
Elementary and Secondary Education ( Education 
Reform Act of 1993). 
New Growth – The additional tax revenue generated 
by new construction, renovations and other 
increases in the property tax base during a calendar 
year. It does not include value increases caused by 
normal market forces or revaluations.  
Nonrecurring Revenue Source  – A one -time 
source of money available to a cit y or town. By its 
nature, a non recurring revenue source cannot b e 
relied upon in future years, and therefore, such funds 
should not be used for operating or other e xpenses 
that continue from year to year.  
Note – A short -term loan, typically with a maturity 
date of a year or less. 
Official Statement  – A document prepared for 
potential inv estors containing information about a 
prospective bond or note issue and the issuer. The 
official statement is typically pub lished with the 
notice of sale and sometimes called an offering 
circular or prospectus. 
Offset Receipts  – A local option that allows  a 
particular department’s estimated receipts to be 
earmarked for the department’s use and 
appropriated to offset its annual operating budget. If 
accepted, MGL c. 44 §  53E limits the amount of 
offset receipts appropriated to no more than the 
actual receipts collected for the prior fiscal year. The 
Director of Accounts must approve any use of a 
higher amount before appropriation. Actual 
collections that are greater than the amount 
appropriated close to the general fund at year-end. If 
actual collections are less, the deficit must be raised 
in the next year’s tax rate. 
OPEB (Other Postemployment Benefits)  – Many 
public employees earn benefits over their years of 
service that they do not receive  until after their 
government employment ends. While pensions are 
the most common of these , other p ostemployment 
benefits generally include combinations of health, 
dental, vision, and life insurances. These are 
provided to eligible retirees and sometime to their 
beneficiaries, and a s a group, are referred to  as 
OPEB. 
Operating Budget  – The plan of proposed 
expenditures for personnel, supplies, and other 
expenses for the coming fiscal year. 
Other Amounts to be Raised (as detailed on the 
Tax Recap) – Amounts not appropriated but raised 
through taxation. General ly, these are locally 
generated expenditures ( e.g., overlay , teacher pay 
deferrals, deficits), as well as state, county, and other 
special district charges. Because they must be 
funded in the annual budget, special consideration 
should be given to them whe n finalizing budget 
recommendations to the city council or town 
meeting. 
Outside Debt  – Municipal borrowing for purposes 
enumerated in MGL c. 44, § 8. Since this d ebt is not 
measured against a community's debt limit per c. 10, the 
borrowing is outside the debt limit and therefore referred to 
as outside debt. (See Inside Debt) 
Overlapping Debt  – A community's proportionate  
share of the debt incurred by an overlapping 
government entity, such as a regional school district, 
regional transit authority, etc. 
Overlay (Overlay Reserve , or Allowance for 
Abatements and Exemptions)  – An account that 
funds anticipated property tax abatements, 
exemptions, and uncollected taxes. Additions to the 
===PAGE 16===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 14 
overlay reserve need not be funded by t he norm al 
appropriation process but instead raised on the tax 
rate recapitulation sheet.  
Overlay Deficit  – A deficit that occurs when the 
abatements and statutory exemptions charged to the 
overlay during a fiscal year exceed  the account 
balance. Overlay deficits must be provided for in the 
next fiscal year.  
Overlay Surplus  – Any balance in the overlay 
account in excess of the amount remaining to be 
collected or abated ca n be transferred to this 
account. Within 10 days of a written request by the 
community’s chief executive officer, the assessors 
must provide a certification of the excess amount of 
overlay available to transfer, if any. Overlay surplus 
may be appropriated for any lawful purpose. At the 
end of each fiscal y ear, unused overlay surplus is 
closed to s urplus revenue; in other words, it 
becomes a part of free cash.  
Override – A vote by a community at an election to 
permanently increase the levy limit. An override vote 
may increase the levy limit no higher than the levy 
ceiling. The override question on the election ballot 
must state a purpose for the override and the dollar 
amount.  
Override Capacity  – The difference between a 
community's levy ceiling and its levy limit. It is the 
maximum amount by which a community may 
override its levy limit. 
Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILOT) – An agreement 
between a municipality and an enti ty not subject to 
taxation, such as a charitable or educational 
organization, whereby the organization agrees to 
make a voluntary payment to the municipality. By 
law, a city or town must make such a payment to any 
other community in which it owns land used for public 
purposes. 
Pension (or other employee benefit) Trust Funds 
– A fiduciary fund type used to report resources that 
are required to be held in trust for the members and 
beneficiaries of defined benefit pension plans, 
defined contribution plans, oth er postemployment 
benefit (OPEB) plans, or other employee benefit 
plans. 
Pension Cost – A measure of the periodic cost of an 
employer’s participation in a defined benefit pension 
plan. 
Pension Plan – An arrangement for the provision of 
pension benefits to employees upon their 
retirements. All assets accumulated are used to pay 
benefits (including refunds of member contributions) 
to plan members or beneficiaries, as defined by the 
plan’s terms. 
PERAC (Public Employee Retirement 
Administration) - Oversees and  directs the state 
retirement system and administers benefits for 
members. 
Permanent Debt  – Borrowing by a community 
typically involving a debt service amortization period 
of greater than one year. (See Long-term Debt) 
Permanent Funds – A fiduciary fund ty pe used to 
report resources that are legally restricted to the 
extent that only earnings, and not principal, may be 
used for purposes that support the reporting 
government’s programs (that is, for the benefit of the 
government for i ts citizenry ). An example is a 
cemetery perpetual care fund. 
Personal Property  – Movable items not 
permanently affixed to, or part of , the real estate. It 
is assessed separately from real estate to certain 
businesses, public utilities, and owners of homes 
that are not their primary residences. 
Preliminary Tax  – The tax bill for the first two 
quarters of the fiscal year , sent by communities on  
quarterly tax billing cycle s or on annual preliminary 
billing systems. The tax bill is sent by July 1 and can 
generally be no greater than 50% of the amount due 
in the previous fiscal year. 
Principal – The face amount of a bond, exclusive of 
accrued interest. 
Private-purpose Trust Funds  – A fiduciary trust 
fund type used to report all trust arrangements (other 
than those properly reported in pension trust funds 
===PAGE 17===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 15 
or investment trust funds), under which the principal 
and income benefits individuals, private 
organizations, or other governments. An example is 
a scholarship fund. 
Pro Forma Recap Sheet  – The Tax Recap s heet 
that communities on semiannual tax billing cycle s 
submit to DLS when seeking to send  optional 
preliminary tax bills for the first half of the fiscal year. 
This is done either because a community is in a  
recertification year or has a valuation -related delay  
in setting the tax rate. 
Proposition 2½  – A state law enacted in 1980, 
Proposition 2½ regulates local property tax 
administration and limits the amount of revenue a 
city or town may raise from local property taxes each 
year to fund municipal operations. 
Purchase Order  – An official document or form 
authorizing the purchase of products and services. 
Qualified Bond  – A program unique to 
Massachusetts for municipalities with marginal credit 
ratings, in which the State Treasurer pays the debt 
service directly from a community’s local aid, thereby 
reinforcing the security of the bond and improving its 
marketability. The Municipal Finance Oversight 
Board authorizes issuance of these bonds under c. 
44A. 
Five-year Certification – The Commissioner of 
Revenue, through BLA, is required to review local 
assessed values every five years to certify that they 
represent full and fair cash value. Refer to MGL c. 40 
§ 56 and c. 59 § 2A(c). 
Raise and Appropriate – A phrase used to identify 
an expenditure’s funding source as money 
generated by the tax levy or other local receipt. 
Real Property – Land, buildings, and the rights and 
benefits inherent in owning them. 
Receipts Reserved for Appropriation  – Proceeds 
earmarked by law and placed in separate accounts 
for appr opriation for particular purposes. For 
example, ambulance charges may be appropriated 
to offset expenses in providing ambulance services. 
Receivables – An expectation of payment of an 
amount certain accruing to the benefit of a city or 
town. 
Reconciliation of Cash – The process whereby the 
accountant and treasurer compare records to 
confirm available cash in community accounts. 
Reconciliation of Receivables  – The process 
whereby the accountant and collector compare 
records to confirm the amount of outstanding taxes. 
Records Disposition Schedule – Published by the 
Secretary of State's Records Management Division 
and pursuant to MGL c. 66, these guidelines on 
municipal records inform local officials as to how long 
and in what form  records must be maintained  and 
identifies those that may be lawfully disposed. 
Recurring Revenue Source  – A source of money 
used to support municipal expenditures, which by its 
nature can be relied on, at some l evel, in future 
years. (See Nonrecurring Revenue Source) 
Refunding of Debt – Transaction whereby one bond 
issue is redeemed and replaced by a new bond issue 
under conditions generally more favorable to the 
issuer. (See Current and Advance Refunding of 
Debt) 
Requisition – Form used by the requesting 
department when ordering pr oducts and services 
from external vend ors. This document generates a 
purchase order. 
Reserve Fund – An amount (not to exceed 5 percent 
of the tax levy for the preceding year) set aside 
annually within a community’s budget to provide a 
funding source for ex traordinary or unforeseen 
expenditures. In a town, the finance committee can 
authorize transfers from this fund for "extraordinary 
or unforeseen" expenditures. Other uses of the fund 
require budgetary transfers by town meeting. In a 
city, transfers from this fund may be voted by the city 
council upon recommendation of the mayor. 
Residential Exemption – A municipality can grant a 
residential exemption of a dollar amount that cannot 
exceed 35 percent of the average assessed value of 
===PAGE 18===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 16 
all residential class prop erties. The exemption 
reduces, by the adopted percentage, the taxable 
valuation of each residential parcel that is a 
taxpayer's principal residence. Granting the 
exemption raises the residential tax rate and shifts 
the residential tax burden from moderatel y valued 
homes to apartments, summer homes , and higher 
valued homes. 
Residential Factor  – Adopted by a community 
annually, this governs the percentage of the tax levy 
to be paid by property owners. A residential factor of 
“1” will result in the taxation of  all property at the 
same rate (single tax rate). Choosing a factor of less 
than one results in increasing the share of the levy 
raised by commercial, industrial and personal 
property. Residential property owners will thereby 
pay a proportionately lower sh are of the total levy. 
(See Minimum Residential Factor) 
Retained Earnings  – An equity account reflecting 
the accumulated earnings of an enterprise fund, 
which may be used to fund capital improvements, 
reimburse the general fund for prior -year subsidies, 
reduce user charges, or provide for enterprise 
revenue deficits (operating losses).  
Revaluation – The assessors of each community 
are responsible for developing a reasonable and 
realistic program to achieve the fair cash valuation of 
property in accordance with constitutional and 
statutory requirements. The nature and extent of that 
program depend s on the assessors’ analyse s and 
consideration of many factors, including, but not 
limited to, the status of the existing valuation system, 
results of an in-depth sales ratio study, and accuracy 
of existing property record information. Every five 
years, assessors must submit propert y values to 
DLS for certification. Assessors must also maintain 
fair cash values in the years between certifications 
so that each taxpayer in the community pays his or 
her share of the cost of local government in 
proportion to the value of property  they ow n. (See 
five-year Certification) 
Revenue Anticipation Borrowing  – Cities, towns, 
and districts may issue temporary note s in 
anticipation of taxes (TANs) or other revenue 
(RANs). The amount of this type of borrowing is 
limited to the total of the prior year's tax levy, the net 
amount collected in motor vehicle and trailer excise 
in the prior year, and payments made by the state in 
lieu of taxes in the prior year. According to MGL c. 
44 § 4, cities, towns, and districts may borrow for up 
to one year in anticipation of such revenue. 
Revenue Anticipation Note  (RAN) – A short-term 
loan issued to be paid off by revenues, such as tax  
collections and state aid. RANs  are full faith and 
credit obligations. (See Tax Anticipation Notes, Bond 
Anticipation Notes) 
Revenue Bond – A bond payable from and secured 
solely by specific revenues and thereby not a full 
faith and credit obligation. 
Revenue Deficit  – The amount by which actual 
revenues at year-end fall short of projected revenues 
and appropriation turn backs and are in sufficient to 
fund the amount appropriated . U nless otherwise 
funded, a revenue deficit must be raised in the 
following year's tax rate. 
Revolving Fund – A fund that a llows a community 
to raise revenues from a specific service and use 
those revenues without appropriation to support the 
service.  
Rollback Taxes  – Back taxes that become due 
when land valued, assessed and taxed under MGL 
c. 61, 61A or 61B  no longer qualifies as actively 
devoted to the purposes specified in each chapter. 
Sale of Cemetery Lots Fund – A fund established 
to account for proceeds of the sale of cemetery lots. 
The proceeds may only be appropriated to pay for 
the cost of the land, its care and improvement or the 
enlargement of the cemetery under provisions of 
MGL c. 114 § 15. 
Sale of Real Estate Fund  – A fund established to 
account for the proceeds of the sale of municipal real 
estate other than proceeds acquired through tax title 
foreclosure. MGL c. 44 §  63 states that such 
proceeds shall be applied first to the retirement of 
debt on the property sold. In the absence of such 
debt, funds may generally be used for purposes for 
===PAGE 19===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 17 
which the city or town is authorized to borrow for a 
period of five years or more. 
Sales Comparison Approach  – A method of 
estimating the value of property by comparing 
verified data about similar properties that have 
recently sold or are offered for sale on the open 
market and adjusting for differences from the 
subject, or unsold, property. 
Schedule A  – A statement of revenues, 
expenditures, and other financing  sources, uses, 
changes in fund balance, and certain balance sheet 
account information prepared annually by the 
accountant or auditor at the end of the fiscal year. 
This report is based on the fund account numbers 
and classifications contained in the UMAS manual. 
Short-term Debt – The outstanding balance, at any 
given time, on amounts borrowed with maturity dates 
of 12 months or less. (See Note) 
Single Audit Act – For any community that expends 
$750,000 or more per year in federal grant awards, 
the Single Audit Act establishes audit guidelines that 
reduce to only one the number of annual audits to be 
completed to satisfy the requirements of the various 
federal agencies from which grants have been 
received. 
Small Commercial Exemption  – A property tax 
classification option that allows  a community to 
exempt up to 10 percent of the value of a Class 
Three, c ommercial parcel . The parcel must be 
occupied by a small business and have an assessed 
valuation of less than $1 million. In effect, the option 
shifts the tax burden from parcels occupied by small 
businesses to those occupied by other commercial 
and industrial taxpayers. Eligible small businesses 
have an average annual employment of no more 
than 10 people.  
Special Assessment – (See Betterments) 
Special Assessme nt Exemption  – Full discharge 
from the payment of betterments and special 
exemptions, granted only to government properties 
occupied for public purposes. 
Special Exclusion  – For a few limited capital 
purposes, a community may exceed its levy limit or 
levy ceiling without voter approval. Presently, there 
are two special expenditure exclusions: 1) water and 
sewer project debt service costs that reduce the 
water and sewer rates by the same amount; and 2) 
a program to assist homeowners to repair or replace 
faulty septic systems, remove underground fuel 
storage tanks, or remove dangerous levels of lead 
paint to meet public health and safety code 
requirements. In the second special exclusion, 
homeowners repay the municipality for the cost plus 
interest apportioned  over a period of time, not to 
exceed 20 years (similar to betterments). 
Special Revenue Fund  – Funds, established by 
statute only, containing revenues that are earmarked 
for and restricted to expenditures for specific 
purposes. Special revenue funds inclu de receipts 
reserved for appropriation, revolving funds, grants 
from governmental entities, and gifts from private 
individuals or organizations. 
Stabilization Fund – A fund designed to accumulate 
amounts for capital and other future spending 
purposes, alth ough it may be appropriated for any 
lawful purpose (MGL c. 40 § 5B). Communities may 
establish one or more stabilization funds for different 
purposes and may appropriate any amounts into 
them. A two -thirds vote of town meeting or city 
council is required to establish, amend the purpose 
of, or appropriate money from a stabilization fund. A 
majority vote of town meeting or city coun cil is 
required to appropriate  money into a stabilizati on 
fund.  
State Aid Anticipation Note (SAAN) – A short-term 
loan issued in anticipation of a state grant or aid 
(MGL c. 44 § 6A). 
State Ethics Commission – This state agency was 
established to foster integrity in government and 
promote public trust. The Co mmission enforces a  
code of ethics and the Financial Disclosure Law.  
State House Notes  – Debt instruments for cities, 
towns, counties, and districts certified by the Director 
of Accounts. Payable annually, they are usually 
===PAGE 20===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 18 
limited to maturities of five ye ars and principal 
amounts of $2,250,000. The notes are particularly 
attractive to smaller communities because 
certification fees are low, they require neither full 
disclosure nor official statement s, and they are 
issued in a short period of time. 
State Receivership – (See Finance Control Board) 
Supplemental Tax Assessments on New 
Construction (MGL c. 59 § 2D) – A community may 
make pro rata assessments on the value of 
improvements that are greater than 50 percent of the 
billed value , excluding the land valu e, when an 
occupancy permit is issued after January 1 (MGL c. 
59 § 2D). This provision allows a community to issue 
a bill (back to the date of occupancy between 
January 1 - June 30) for the current fiscal year on 
qualifying property improvements, resulting  in 
additional general revenue . These improvements 
would be included in the subsequent year’s new 
growth calculation. 
Surety Bond – A performance bond that protects a 
municipality against financial loss arising from a 
breach of public trust by an employee who collects 
money on its behalf. 
Surplus Revenue  – The amount by which cash, 
accounts receivable, and other assets exceed 
liabilities and reserves. 
Tailings – Unclaimed municipal funds in the custody 
of a municipality, which are retained in a repository 
(referred to as a tailings account ) until eventual 
disposition (MGL c. 200A). Tailings include 
unclaimed tax refunds , uncashed payroll checks, 
vendor payments yet to clear, etc. 
Tax Anticipation Notes (TAN) – A short-term note 
issued to provide cash to cov er operating expenses 
in anticipation of tax proceeds. 
Tax Increment Financing Exemption  (TIF) – In 
accordance with MGL c. 59 § 5(51), a property tax 
exemption negotiated between a community and a 
private developer, typically implemented over a 
period up t o 20 years, and intended to encourage 
industrial/commercial development. 
Tax Maps  – Used to determine the location of 
properties, indicate the size and shape of each 
parcel, and show their relation to features that affect 
value. Maps also provide a complete inventory of all 
land parcels, helping to minimize the problems of 
omitted parcels and duplication of listing. Also 
referred to as assessors' maps. 
Tax Possession  – Once a tax title has been 
foreclosed in Land Court, the treasurer records the 
decree at t he Registry of Deeds as a municipally 
owned property, which thus becomes  a tax 
possession. For a property issued a Land of Low 
Value affidavit by DLS, the municipality must hold an 
auction prior to it becoming a tax possession. 
Tax Rate  – The amount of property tax stated in 
terms of a unit of the municipal tax base; for example, 
$14.80 per $1,000 of assessed valuation of taxable 
real and personal property. 
Tax Rate Recapitulation Sheet (the Tax Recap) – 
The document a city or town submits to DLS to set a 
property tax rat e, t he recap shows all estimated 
revenues and actual appropriations that affect the 
property tax rate. It should be submitted to DLS by 
September 1 (in order to issue the first -half 
semiannual property tax bills before October 1) or by 
December 1 (to issue actual tax bills on or before 
December 31 in a quarterly community or a 
semiannual community issuing annual preliminary 
tax bills). 
Tax Title (or Tax Taking)  – A collection procedure 
that secures a municipality’s lien on real property and 
protects its right to payment of overdue property 
taxes. Without a taking, the lien expires if five years 
elapse from the January 1 assessment date and the 
property has been transferred to another owner.  
Tax Title Foreclosure – The procedure initiated by 
a city or town treasurer in Land Court, or through the 
land of low value process, to obtain legal title to real 
property already in tax title and o n which property 
taxes are overdue. The treasurer must wait at least 
six months  from the date of a tax taking to initiate 
Land Court foreclosure proceedings (MGL c. 60 §  
65). 
===PAGE 21===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 19 
Tax Title Redemption – The payment by a property 
owner of all overdue taxes, fees, charges, other 
costs, and interest on real property that the 
municipality had placed in tax title. The taxpayer's 
right to redeem terminates when the treasurer 
receives a Land Court decree or land of low value 
affidavit, records the affidavit, and holds an auction. 
Temporary Debt – Borrowing by a community in the 
form of notes and for a term of one year or less. (See 
Short-term Debt) 
Trust Fund – In general, a fund for money donated 
or transferred to a municipality with specific 
instructions on its use. As custodian of trust funds, 
the treasurer invests and expends such funds as  
stipulated by trust agreements, as directed by the 
commissioners of trust funds , or by town meeting. 
Both principal and interest may be used if the trust is 
established as an expendable  trust. For 
nonexpendable trust funds, only interest (not 
principal) may be expended as directed. 
Turnover Sheet  – A form  completed by municipal 
departments that accompanies the physical tr ansfer 
of departmental revenues  (or bank de posit slips 
reflecting revenues) to the treasurer. 
Uncollected Funds  – Recently deposited chec ks 
that are included in an account's balance  but drawn 
on other banks and not yet credited by the Federal 
Reserve Bank or local clearinghouse to the bank 
cashing the checks. These funds may not be loaned 
or used as part of the bank's reserves, and they are  
not available for disbursement. 
Underride – A vote by a community to permanently 
decrease the tax levy limit. It is the exact opposite of 
an override.  
Undesignated Fund Balance  – Monies in the 
various government funds as of June 30 that are 
neither encumbered nor reserved and are therefore 
available for expenditure once certified as part of free 
cash. (See Designated Fund Balance) 
Unfunded OPEB Liability  – This is the difference 
between the value assigned to the benefits (other 
than retirement) already ea rned by a municipality’s 
employees and the assets the local government will 
have on hand to meet these obligations. (See OPEB) 
Unfunded Pension Liability – This is the difference 
between the value assigned to the retirement 
benefits already earned by a mun icipality’s 
employees and the assets the local retirement 
system will have on hand to meet these obligations. 
The dollar value of the unfunded pension liability is 
redetermined every three years and driven by 
assumptions about the interest rates at which a  
retirement system's assets will grow and the rate of 
the pensioners’ future costs of living increases. (See 
Pension Plan) 
Uniform Municipal Accounting System (UMAS) – 
UMAS succeeded  the statutory accounting s ystem 
(STAT) and is regarded as the professional standard 
for municipal accounting in Massachusetts. As a 
uniform system for local governments, it conforms to 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), 
offers increased cons istency in reporting and 
recordkeeping, and enhances  the comparability of 
data among cities and towns. 
Uniform Procurement Act  – MGL c. 30B 
establishes uniform procedures for local government 
to use when contracting for supplies, equipment, 
services, and real estate. 
Unreserved Fund  Balance (Surplus Revenue 
Account) – The amount by which cash, accounts 
receivable, and other assets exceed liabilities and 
restricted reserves. It is akin to a "stockholders’ 
equity" account on a corporate balance sheet. It is 
not, however, available for appropriation in full 
because a portion of the assets listed as "accounts 
receivable" may be taxes receivable and 
uncollected. (See Free Cash) 
Valuation – The legal requirement that a 
community’s assessed value on property must 
reflect its market, or full and fair, cash value. 
Warrant – An authorization for an action. For 
example, a town meeting warrant establishes the 
matters that may be acted on by that town meeting. 
A treasury warrant authorizes the treasurer to pay 
specific bills. The assessors’ warrant  authorizes the 
===PAGE 22===
Department of Revenue/Division of Local Services 
 
Municipal Finance Glossary 20 
tax collector to collect taxes in the amounts and from 
the persons listed. 
Water Surplus – For water departments operating 
under MGL c. 41 §  69B, any unspent water 
appropriations or revenues in excess of  estimated 
water receipts close out to a water surplus account. 
Water surplus may be appropriated to fund water -
related general and capital expenses or to reduce 
water rates. 
Waterways Improvement Fund  – An account into 
which 50 percent of the receipts from boat excises 
and mooring fees impos ed under MGL c. 91 § 10A 
are deposited. Appropriation of these proceeds is 
limited to certain waterway expenses outlined in 
MGL c. 40 § 5G. 
 
 
 
 