===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes 
March 30,2009 - Amended April 8,2009 – Added D. Blatt to Members attending 
 
Present:   Members:   S.Marsden, P.Slattery, E. Sund, 
Lisa Krowitz, C.Zivojinovic, S.DiCampo, D. Blatt 
 
  Town Liaison:  M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault 
  Alternate:   J. McQuaid 
 
1.  Meeting was called to order by Kathryn Herrick Town Clerk, who distributed 
Open Meeting and Conflict of Interest law info. 
2.  Ms. Herrick swore in attending members, liaison s and alternate. 
3. Motion was made by P.Slattery to nominate S.Mars den as Committee Chairman. 
 Motion was seconded and approved unanimously. 
4.  Motion was made by E.Sund to nominate P. Slatte ry as Secretary. 
 Motion was seconded and approved unanimously. 
5.  Each Committee member introduced themselves wit h a brief background 
statement. An email address listing was circulated to enable contact. 
6.  M. Benson shall be the coordinating liaison for  the Town. 
7.  S. Marsden briefly outlined and discussed Energ y Code By-Law models that exist 
along with alternate energy sources. 
8.  Following a brief discussion of the need for a Town Building Inventory, 
P.Slattery distributed a draft Town Building Inventory Form for review, comment 
and amendment. M. Benson will formalize the document and provide copies to 
Town liaison members for completion. 
9.  M. Benson made the Committee aware of directive s from the State which require 
 Wind Energy By-Laws to be available as a matter of  right to citizens. Lunenburg 
presently requires a Special Permit from the Planning Board. Marion noted that 
the State advises it should be handled as part of the Planning Board Development 
Review process and requested a letter from the Committee to the Planning Board 
denoting same. Motion was made, seconded and passed unanimously. P. Slattery 
will provide the letter by 3/31 for the Planning Board meeting. 
10. J. Londa and J. Breault reviewed a grant opport unity for an Energy Audit of Town 
buildings. John and Jim to work toward application letter for 4/15 submittal.  
11.  M. Benson asked Committee to review the Wind E nergy By-Law which is 
available on Town website 
12.  J. McQuaid discussed Unitil packet of informat ion which is available for 
customer use. She will provide a sample packet at the next meeting. 
13.  M. Benson will provide a web link to Green Act  for members. 
14.  Meeting schedules and availabilities were disc ussed. It was decided to meet next 
on Wednesday April 8 
th  at 6PM.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 