===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
December  8, 2009 
  
Present:   Members:  S.Marsden, P.Slattery, D. Blatt, S.DiCampo, E. Sund,  
  Town Liaison: M. Benson, J. Londa,  
  Alternate:  J. McQuaid 
  Absent: L. Krowitz,  C.Zivojinovic, J.Breault 
 
1.  Scheduled guest David Demers was ill and will reschedule appearance for a later date to 
talk about Fire Prevention Regulations as they relate to roof top solar panel installations.    
2. Minutes of 12/1 workshop were approved and initialed. 
3. Kelly Brown Worcester County Regional Rep from DER has followed up with 
information. M. Benson has had trouble opening it but will report on content.  
4.   M. Benson advised of dedication of Town of Princeton Wind Turbine installation which 
will provide 40% of Town’s power. 
5. J. Londa reported that solar grant request has been submitted to Boston. 
6. M. Benson will contact new Town Tech Director, Nancy Strong, to enable web page 
access for J. McQuaid. 
7.  J. McQuaid to contact MassSave about obtaining kilowatt meters for the Town residents 
and have them distributed on a borrowing basis through the Library.  
      8.  D. Blatt reported on cash incentives for recycling initiatives. 
      9.   D. Blatt reported on feasibility of small scale solar or residential installations of 
solar noting that with the Commonwealth Solar fund depleted for large projects,   
 practicality is limited. 
10. E. Sund reported that he had received the first building permit issued for a wind 
 Turbine in Town following the passage of the wind energy bylaw.  
11.  S. Marsden will make an update presentation to the Selectmen in January   
 outlining accomplishments and activities of Commission. 
12.  J. McQuaid reported on conversation with Town Manager about possible 
 availability of up to $3,000 for recycling education initiatives. M. Benson & J.   
 McQuaid will do further follow-up with Town Manager  
13.  A solar hot water link is need for the website. L. Krowitz and J. McQuaid will   
 work to enable it. 
14.  D. Blatt reported on availability of wind testing equipment that could facilitate 
 identifying wind studies for potential Town wind turbine sites. Equipment cost is  
 in a range of $2,000-$3,000. He will research and report further info at next  
 meeting. 
15.  Future meeting schedule: January 12, 2010 @ 6:30PM 
16.  Meeting adjourned at 8:00PM 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
   