===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Allernale.
Absent:
J. cadil
S.Marsden, D. Blatt, S.DiCampo, C.Zivojinovic,
1. M. Benson reported on conversation with assigned consultant. He advised that we
keep working ahead with projects as presented. Stretch Code was noted as an
ongoing consideration but no directives are in place.
2. P. Slattery & M. Benson reported on information received from S. DiCampo
relative to web site containing Acronyms, a sample disclaimer and solar links to
other web sites. M. Benson has forwarded the information to the Committee.
3. J. McQuaid needs to be able to access the web site. M. Benson will make the
necessary arrangements with D. Dufresne to enable same.
4. J. Londa reported that the D.O.E.R. approval of solar project has been received
and an advertisement for bids is expected this week related to Turkey Hill Middle
School and the Public Safety building projects.
5. M. Benson will have L. Klaft prepare a news release about receipt of D.O.E.R.
approval.
6. E. Sund gave a brief Wind Energy project update noting that G.E. is the only
company currently doing single station wind turbine installations. E. Sund and D.
Blatt will consult further with each other.
7. M. Benson reported that the Town Meeting wind and solar by-law updates are in
the hands of the Town Counsel for review. A November public hearing will be
scheduled and advertised. Fall Town meeting is December 1,2009.
8. P. Slattery reported that in spite of multiple attempts to contact Bill Gustus,
nothing has been forthcoming about meetings of the Utility Task Force. He will
make another attempt through Laura at the Town Hall.
9. M.Benson advised of changes in State Ethics Laws and the need for all members
of Town Committees, Commissions and Boards to take a test. More information
to follow as it becomes available.
10. Next week's meeting will concentrate on web page design, layout and content. M.
Benson will invite Mrs. Zivojinovic to attend.
11. Workshop adjourned at 5:00PM
But Pattery
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary
