===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Green Community Task Force
Meeting Minutes
September 2, 2009
Present:
Members:
S.Marsden, P.Slattery, Lisa Krowitz,
D. Blatt, S.DiCampo, C.Zivojinovic, Lisa Krowitz,
Town Liaison: M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault
Alternate:
J. McQuaid
Absent:
E. Sund
Guest:
J. Carroll - Moss Hollow Solar
1. M. Benson advised Committee of upcoming Mass. Dept. of Energy Resources
seminar on 9/16/09 at MRPC.
2. M. Benson advised of receipt of Energy Grant award. Her efforts in coordinating
and securing it were acknowledged and congratulated by the Committee.
3. Minutes of 8/4/09 meeting were approved as presented.
4. J. Carroll of Solar Energy Business Associates / Commonwealth Solar provided
physical samples of photo-voltaic panels and provided a demonstration and
description of their use. He provided web links for solar information and
discussed various commercial building models for adapting solar arrays. Moss
Hollow Solar will prepare a proposal for the Committee's review dealing with
solar installations on Lunenburg's town buildings.
5.
J. Londa will meet with J. Carroll to develop proposal criteria for review.
6. J. Londa reported on status of pending energy audit grant proposal.
7. Committee discussed at length the Educational Web Site. Lunenburg Online will
be the vehicle used. Committee reviewed design criteria and content of website.
Web links as well as disclaimers will be incorporated into website. Website
subcommittee expects within 2 weeks to have the site ready to launch. Sub-
committee will prepare a web site preview and have it available at M. Benson's
office for Committee members to stop in and review prior to actual launch date.
8. P. Slattery was nominated and voted to represent this Committee as the liaison to
the Utility Task Force. M. Benson shall notify task force of appointment.
9. J. McQuaid presented a handout of information from UNITIL for a MassSave
booklet. Motion was made by P. Slattery, seconded and approved to have J.
McQuaid secure 50 booklets.
affected by zoning height restrictions.
11. Meeting adjourned at 8:55PM
Kespectfully submitted.
de Palliu
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 2 0 2009
LUNENBURG TOWE
CLERK OFFICE
