===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
March 2, 2010 
  
Present:   Members:           S.Marsden, P.Slattery, D. Blatt, , L. Krowitz, E. Sund  
     C.Zivojinovic  
Town Liaison:   M. Benson, J. Londa,  
   Alternate:   J. McQuaid 
   Absent:  S.DiCampo, J. Breault 
   Guests:  P. Schwarz, L.P.Roy, E. Studer 
 
1.  J. McQuaid showed UNITIL flyer for Kilowatt met ers  borrowing program to be displayed at the 
Library. Town Hall, etc.  She will also add info to website.  Six meters will be available. Release 
date target is April 22 
nd  which is Earth Day. 
2.  Minutes were reviewed and approved for 2/2/2010 meeting.  
3. J. McQuaid reported on a national grid program f or recycling refrigerators that are still 
serviceable and running.  
4.   J. Londa reported on the Energy Use software p rogram he is working with and progress to date 
with data entry.  
5. A “Stretch Energy Code Outreach Forum”, PowerPoi nt presentation was made by  P. Schwarz, 
L.P.Roy, & E. Studer the Green Community Committee’s Planning Assistance Consultants. The 
focus, as requested, was centered on the application of the Stretch Code and its requirements and 
ramifications for local building projects if adopted.   
6.  Group discussed the criteria requirements for b ecoming a Green Community. The 20% energy 
reduction plan for municipal buildings was discussed at length. 
7.  The consultants advised that the baseline start ing point should probably be 2007 which would 
mandate compliance within 5 years, by 2012.   
8.    The concern voiced by the Committee about what would happen if by 2012 we demonstrated less 
than a 20% saving was explained by the consultants and they assured that the Town would not be 
penalized or required to return grant monies if the threshold was not reached as it is a target. 
9.    E. Studer – Planning Consultant, advised that  he will prepare a written submittal for criteria #3 
related to the required baseline inventory and 20% reduction program. He will submit it to F. 
Schwarz who will interface with M. Benson.  
     10.   Future meeting schedule: to be determined 
     11.   Meeting adjourned at 9:15PM 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 
 
 