===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
April 27, 2010 
  
Present:   Members:           S.Marsden, P.Slattery, E. Sund, S.DiCampo , C.Zivojinovic, 
    J. McQuaid  
Town Liaison:   J. Londa 
       
1.  Minutes were reviewed and approved for 3/16/2010 meeting.  
2.  Motion was made and seconded to elevate J. McQuaid from Alternate to Member status. Motion 
passed unanimously. P. Slattery as acting Chairman, welcomed J. McQuaid as a full member of 
the Task Force filling the open position created by a recent resignation. 
3.  P. Slattery read a press release about the Appleworks Building in Harvard and the work 
accomplished with their photo voltaic panel installation.  
4.  J. McQuaid reported on recycling initiatives; a poster by Unitil; and an Earth Year program from 
Waste Management which makes available up to $3,000 grants to cities and towns as a recycling 
outreach program.  
5.   S. DiCampo is still working on a report update  regarding photo voltaic panel use possibilities.  
6.  C.Zivojinovic reported on his study of the stre tch code noting that further work is needed. His 
expectation is that it will eventually be approved but the full impact of its effect on Commercial 
construction is still uncertain.  
7.    E. Sund gave a wind energy update. In conversations with the Town Manager it was suggested 
that she may be able to aid in securing funding for the necessary wind study. The Task Force 
should urge Kerry to pursue available funds.  
8.    J. Londa noted receipt of a $20,000 grant for consulting services related to energy reduction.  
9.  J. Londa reported on progress with the Energy B aseline project. Data entry is proceeding well and 
Town Department heads are being contacted to provide required information for the database. 
10.  J. McQuaid reported that the recycling contract expires in June 2011. Currently it calls for a flat 
cost for solid waste and recycling. Future contracts should reflect separated bids. A Town 
Recycling Committee may be a considered future option. 
11.  S. Dicampo questioned if some of the technical schools in the area might not be good source of   
        intern manpower to assist in Task Force endeavors. U. Lowell and Worcester Tech were  
        mentioned. 
      12.   Future meeting is scheduled 5/26  at 6:30PM. 
      13.   Meeting adjourned at 7:45 PM 
 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 
 