===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1.9
ple
Green Community Task Force
August 25, 2010, 6:30 PM
Ritter Memorial Building
Londa, James Breault, Marion Benson
Absent: Patrick Slattery, Carl (Ernie) Sund
New Solar Projects: Chair described his research for solar fields. He is working with Representative Jennifer Benson
who is filing legislation so a local resident can achieve the energy credits through solar to receive pay back from the
local provider. UNITIL only allows a certain percentage, which is quickly achieved by the municipalities. A meeting
has been set up to discuss a Town solar field with the Town Manager. Mr. Marsden also discussed other alternative
energy devices. Noted a small wind turbine, which can be set on poles, are less noisy and inexpensive. Ms. Benson
to check bylaw.
Wind Sampling Equipment: Mr. Blatt did not give his report before he left the meeting.
Vehicle Count: Mr. Breault gave a report on vehicle count that is applicable under the Act. Discussion ensued on
past Vehicle Rotation. It was noted if the Town becomes a Green Community under the Act, rotation of vehicles
cannot be done.
Recycling Update: Ms. McQuaid reported on the recycling of Styrofoam. Noted the centers close by; however, she
will research drop off places in Town. Postal centers will take back the "peanuts". Also noted that cardboard can now
be picked up curb side. Discussion ensued on the recycling of florescent light bulbs. Mr. Londa said they could be part
of the annual electronic drive. Resolution is needed on how to obtain and use containers. Ms. McQuaid is to talk to
Waste Management and research other avenues. Publicity was also discussed to get the "word" out to the general
public, e.g. television, newspaper, web site.
Solar Roofing: Mr. Londa explained the solar panels on the Middle School and showed a sketch on the locations.
Cost is approx 7.5 cents per kilowatt. A slight problem with the paperwork is being corrected.
Green Community Action Plan: General consensus that there needed to be clarification. VHB has contacted Ms
Benson and will call to set a date for discussion. Tasked for review: Chapters 1 & 2 - Ms. Benson, Chapter 3 - Mr.
Londa, Chapter 4 - Mr. Breault, Chapter 5 - Mr. DiCampo.
General Discussion: Status of Stretch Code in relation to new Building Code and Energy Code.
Next Meeting: September 14, 2010, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building
Adjournment: Motion, Mr. DiCampo, Second, Ms. McQuaid, Motion passed, adjourned at 8:40 PM.
Green task force/minutes 2010/08.25.10
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 17 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
