===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
May 26, 2010 
  
Present:   Members:           S.Marsden, P.Slattery, E. Sund, J. McQuai d  
Town Liaison:   M. Benson, J. Londa 
       
1.  Minutes were reviewed and approved for 4/27/2010 meeting.  
2.  An update on the Stretch Code status was discussed. M. Benson presented a plan showing which 
Mass. cities and towns had adopted it. C.Zivojinovic continues to study the effect for the 
Committee. P. Slattery & S. Marsden related conversations with various Town and City officials 
who had adopted the code noting that there was nowhere near the in-depth discussion and 
analysis given, in many cases, as Lunenburg has done. It was also noted that none of the allocated 
money for being a Green Community has been distributed. The general expectation is that the 
Stretch Code will be proposed for adoption at a Fall Town Meeting. 
3.  P. Slattery advised that because of the attitude among cities & towns, that it’s all about getting the 
money, it will be proposed and adopted by a majority of cities & towns, regardless of its practical 
effects.  
4.  J. McQuaid reported on recycling initiatives including a matching grant of $750. Grant deadline 
is June 2 
nd.   Committee approved application for grant. M. Benson will write a letter. 
5.  J. McQuaid advised that as part of a town wide recycling program Lunenburg can use the 
Townsend facility. 
6.   It was reported that the need for Hers raters as a component of the Stretch Code may be removed 
by Jan. 1 st .  
7.    E. Sund gave a wind energy update. It was voted and approved to send a letter to the Town 
Manager requesting an amount of $70,000 for a wind study as she previously suggested that she 
may be able to aid in securing funding for the necessary wind study. M. Benson to do letter to 
Kerry Speidel. Approval through the State is a 2-3 year process. 
8.    E. Sund gave a progress report on his personal wind turbine noting that it is still being fine tuned. 
His system stores energy in batteries and at this point it hasn’t reached a level to compensate for 
the lack of darin on the batteries. 
9.    J. Londa noted That his contact with the State for Mass Energy Insight had left the Dept. and no 
new hire has occurred as of this time.  
10.  J. Londa reported on progress with the Energy Baseline project. All accounts are now entered in 
the Mass Energy Insight program. Department heads need to manually input data into the system 
as the next step. It was suggested that a letter be sent to State Rep., J. Benson relative to having 
Unitil assist with making account information interface more readily with software requirements 
as is the case with other utility companies. 
      11.  Future meeting is scheduled 8/25/10  at 6:30PM. 
      12.  Meeting adjourned at 7:50 PM 
 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 
 
 
 
 