===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Tall
dont
Green Community Task Force
Meeting Minutes
September 14, 2010
mas ey.
трь
Present:
Members:
Town Liaison: M. Benson
1. Minutes were reviewed and approved for 7/19/2010 meeting.
2. M. Benson advised of a conversation with M. Sauvegeau regarding latest Building Code revisions
and their effect on the Stretch Code. The new 8' edition of the IBC Code is now in effect and as
predicted has stronger requirements than the previous code with the anticipated resultant effect of
an increase in Stretch Code requirements - although no action has been taken yet. Expectation is
that the Stretch Code may still be proposed for adoption at the Spring Town Meeting but is
pending further developments.
A brief discussion of the Town Web Page content was held. M. Benson continues to work with
the webmaster. J. McQuaid will access the web page and provide updates.
4. A review of the Town Consultant's preliminary report was held. M. Benson will contact the
Consultant to arrange for him to meet with the Task Force. M. Benson to advise of schedule.
5. S. Marsden reported that the Selectmen have voted to proceed with the Power Provider RFP for a
solar project at the former landfill. The project contract would be a 20 year term.
6. P. Slattery will discuss the matter of solar powered trash compactors at the lakefront with the
Town Manager. If a letter is necessary he will follow through with same.
7. No report was available regarding wind sampling equipment. S. Marsden will report at a future
meeting on efforts to contact WPI to determine if a student led project with professor certification
would provide a validated wind study for funding through MEC.
J. McQuaid reported on a Unitil program for schools where low income families receive a special
discount.
Y 8. Future meeting to be scheduled and Committee advised.
' 8 9. Meeting adjourned at 7:50 PM
respectfully submitte
; Mattle
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 17 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
