===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Discussion Notes 
October 5, 2011 
 
Present: Members D. Blatt, N. Sullivan 
Town Liaisons J. Londa, M. Benson 
The above did not constitute a quorum.  Chair decided on discussion only. 
 
1. Solar Field/Borrego Solar -  J. Londa reported that  after waiting a length of time , Town Counsel 
approved lease documents.  An inter-connection application had been sent to U NITIL.  UNITIL decided a 
supplement review is necessary.  M. Benson noted that Borrego will have to go through a Develop ment 
Plan Review according to the Solar Bylaw.  Problem is the plans are not finalized until U NITIL approves 
size of project.  
 
2. M. Benson gave report on the plan submitted by MASS PV1, LLC (EosolAmericas). A submittal under 
the Solar Bylaw has been pres ented and is in third-party review.  A Tech Meeting was held on 9 -28-11.  
Plans and additional data  are available in the Planning Office.   Applicant will supply training for Police, 
Fire and DPW.  
 
3. D.  Blatt discussed the presentations that will be made  to the  administration and the  public.  An 
appearance before the Finance Committee has been requested on October 13, 2011.  D . Blatt  will 
present and welcomes any other member to be in attendance.  A presentation will be given to the Board 
of Selectmen on November 1, 2011.  D . Blatt will present the five criteria that the Town will have to 
accomplish to become an official Green Community.  A public presentation  will be held on November 
17, 2011 at the Town Hall on television.  All members will be involved as well as speakers from the State.   
Invitations will be sent to other communities and to engineers and developers.  The Task Force will be 
looking for audience participation for feedback.  The purpose is to have informed voting participants at 
Town Meeting.   
 
4. Next meeting date set for November 2, 2011 at 7:00 PM.  Meeting adjourned at 8:10 PM.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Marion M. Benson, Liaison 
 
GCTF/minutes 2011/10.05.11 