===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2011
Present: Members
Town Liaisons
D. Biatt, Z. Cutting, S. DiCampo, J.(McQuaid, N. Sullivan,
J. Londa
1. D. Blatt called the meeting to order at 7:04 P.M. The minutes for 8/1/2011 were reviewed
and approved.
2. Landfill Solar Project -J. Londa noted that Town Counsel is moving forward with the Borrego
contract. They prefer to change the wording to "assessed value" for the purchase of the
system at the end of the contract instead of $1.00 however the GCTF questioned that
decision. Unitil has a 9/14/11 deadline for a decision on the Interconnect. There is still no
site plan or size determination.
3. Green Community Update- J.Londa made a list by building of possible energy savings to
comply with the 20% reduction required as part of becoming a Green Community. As of now
natural gas and electricity usage are automatically uploaded with the State program; diesel
and fuel oil need to manually uploaded. D. Blatt brought samples of energy plans from the
State's website. The Building Performance Institute has a slide show and Q/A which can be
uploaded to the Town's website. They also can do energy test and blower door testing.
4. A public television workshop will be scheduled to explain the details of the Green
Community designation and the Stretch Code. Someone from the State should be present to
assist with the Questions and Answers. D.Blatt suggested the first to be on October 26th
about "How to become a Green Community" and what we've done to date. The second
should be on the Stretch Code maybe in early November. The deadline for FY2012
Applications needs to be determined.
S. DiCampo noted that Bolton voted "No" on the Stretch Code; he was unsure how Belmont
voted. It would be good to know why towns are voting against it. Towns are now working to
different standards because of new Codes.
4. Recycling- J.Londa said that it's unclear why the schools have extra costs since the new
Casella contract started. There was no response from the Town Manager or Head of DPW
regarding townwide styrofoam recycling.
5. Schools- The THMS solar panels are now producing energy. Perhaps website access is
available for educational purposes. The lighting upgrade has been completed.
6. Next meeting date set tentatively for October 3, 2011 at 7:00 P.M. to review materials for the
public forum. Meeting adjourned at 8:36 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
oanne McQuaid, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV - 7 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
