===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
January 11, 2011 
  
Present:   Members:          S.Marsden, P.Slattery, S.DiCampo, D.Blatt  
Town Liaison:   M. Benson, E. Sund, J. Londa 
Guest:   Neal Sullivan 
       
1. Minutes were reviewed and approved for 11/16/2010 meeting. 
2. S. Marsden advised that Courtney Zivojinovic  has notified him that he is leaving the Green 
Communities Task Force due to schedule conflicts.   
3. M. Benson introduced Neal Sullivan who is interested in being a member of the Green 
Communities Task Force.  Discussion was held to acquaint him with the history, topics and 
function of the Task Force. M. Benson shall notify the Selectmen that Mr. Sullivan has been 
endorsed by the Task Force to fill the opening created by E. Sund becoming a liaison. Two other 
openings exist. One to fill the C. Zivojinovic opening and one to fill the position of Alternate 
which has remained unfilled since the appointment of J. McQuaid as a full member.  
4. Two additional names were put forth for consideration to fill the vacancies - Zachary Cutting and 
Fernando Siera. P. Slattery will meet with each to introduce them to the Task Force functions to 
insure action by the Selectmen in early February.  
5. M. Benson advised that action was being taken by the Selectmen to hire a web page design firm 
to improve content, layout and access.   
6.  A lengthy discussion was held regarding the solar RFQ as it applies to the Power Provider RFP 
solar project at the former landfill which qualifies as a “brown field  project”.  J. Londa requested 
direction on a number of issues to finalize the RFQ. M. Benson will work with Town Manager  to 
secure a copy of the DEP Closure and Enforcement Order; as well as a plan of the landfill gas 
venting which is available from the Assessors/ DPW. A Google Earth overview map is also 
required. The size of the project is tentatively felt to need 30 acres of the existing 42 acre site to 
insure a facility capable of generating 2MW of power.   
7. D. Blatt spoke about getting a paper recycling dumpster in a convenient Town location near the 
Center.   
8.  S. Marsden will follow through with MRPC regarding his contact of WPI to determine if a 
student led project with professor certification would provide a validated wind study for funding 
through MEC.  
9. Discussions of upcoming seminars and webinars were held. S. Marsden to attend webinar this 
week on solar photovoltaic installations. 
10.   A notice about a new State, solar, residential hot water heating program will be posted on the     
web site. M. Benson to have J. McQuaid add that to Task Force web page. 
       11.  Future meeting scheduled for February 1st, 2011 at 6:30PM 
       12.  Meeting adjourned at 8:15 PM 
 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 