===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1D.
Green Community Task Force Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2011
Present: Members - P.Slattery, J. McQuaid, E .Sund, N. Sullivan, Z. Cutting, Steven DiCampo
Town Liaisons- M. Benson, I. Londa fo
1. P. Slattery called the meeting to order at 7:02 P.M. The minutes for 3/9/2011 were
reviewed and approved.
2. M.Benson informed us that EOSOL Americas will make a presentation to the
Gulf on 6/ 6/ 11 regarding a 120 acre solar field on Chase Road. Members
were directed to their website for background information: www.eosolamericas.com
3. P.Slaterry reported on the meeting with the Board of Selectmen on 5/17/11. They
conditionally approved a motion to move forward with the RFP for the Youngs Road
landfill solar field pending the approval of the GCTF. Net metering is still an unknown
factor but the cost of electricity (.078/KWH) would be locked in for 20 years for
substantial savings to the Town.
E. Sund noted that the Board of Selectmen acknowledged all of J. Londa's work on the
project. Only one bid was received from Borrego Solar. They will use two separate
areas on the site and coordinated the connection to Unitil. The Town could purchase
the system after 20 years for $1.00. If approved, net metering should continue for the
lifetime of the project as determined by the State DPU and produce additional
revenue for the Town.
S. DiCampo made a motion that the Green Community Task Force recommend to the
Town Manager to enter into contract with Borrego Solar for the proposed solar field
on the Town landfill negotiating for a reduced price for electricity and confirmed net
metering while utilizing the resources of the Green Community Task Force to
accomplish these goals. The motion was seconded and passed unanimously. J. Londa
and Z.Cutting will meet with the Town Manager to help with negotiations.
4. S. DiCampo made a motion to table the discussion on solar hot water until the next
meeting. Seconded and passed.
5. M.Benson reported that the Montachusett Energy Plan is two-thirds completed. The
data will indicate future energy needs of the region.
6. P.Slattery also reported to the Board of Selectmen that the GCTF is preparing an
Article for the Fall Town Meeting regarding the Green Communities Act. Acceptance
of the Stretch Code is still problematic. A public presentation will be made with
information on the pros and cons of acceptance. The Town and residents can do
many "Green" initiatives without the formal designation. Members should bring a list
of pros and cons to the next meeting for discussion.
6. Our next meeting will be on 6/6/11 at 7:00 P.M. D. Blatt will chair the meeting.
7. Meeting adjourned at 8:35 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 07 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
