===PAGE 1===
 
Green Community Task Force Minutes 
February 6, 2012 
 
 Present:    Members    D. Blatt, J. McQuaid, E. Sund 
                  Advisors     M.Benson, J. Londa 
 
1. Joint Meeting with Lunenburg Planning Board called to order at 6:34 P.M. by T. Bakaysa    
      and D.Blatt. 
2. The Planning Board would like input from the Green Community Task Force regarding 
the Town solar bylaw. M. Benson provided a handout of the Model As-of Right Zoning Bylaw, 
which is the only current one from the State. 
T. Bakaysa said that the Planning Board met with Unitl last week regarding procedures for 
large-scale solar projects. They are only required to accept Net Metering up to 1% cap for 
residential and 2% for municipal projects. D.Blatt said that if more power is produced than net 
metering limits  the power can be wholesaled. 
 3.   Regarding the proposed solar field on the Youngs Road landfill D.Blatt noted that the GCTF 
       is gathering all the financial information and Unitil approval before presenting the project 
       for review to the PB. He suggested that if proposed large scale solar projects defined the scope      
       of their projects (size and interconnect application) prior to seeking approvals from town 
       officials that if would provide much needed information required to make informed decisions.  
4. T. Bakaysa asked D.Blatt for suggestions on setbacks for ground mounted solar installations. 
D. Blatt offered an idea of doubling the size of the array. E.Sund noted the difference between 
commercial and residential solar applications. T.Bakaysa questioned if the size of residential 
ground mount projects could be limited. 
5. M.Benson accepted a copy of the Pioneer Valley Planning Commission on Bylaw Writing  
submitted by a visitor. 
6. At 7:07 the Joint meeting with the Planning Board ended and the GCTF meeting  
continued. 
7. Solar Landfill Project: J. Londa said that Borrego has the contract back from Town Counsel    
and should hear from Unitil by 1/14/12 regarding the interconnect. On 10/18/12 the estimated  
cost to upgrade the lines was $200,000.00 but they will be giving a more accurate cost soon.  
The project size is still at 1.5 MW. The Development Plan Review needs to proceed through the 
Planning Board to the Building Inspector.  The landfill site includes both Commercial and 
Residential zones. 
8.   The THMS solar project has produced 4,000 kW of power in January. 
9.   D. Blatt will write a series of articles for the Ledger addressing “What is in it for you, the  
      taxpayer”.  They will start in late March. J. Londa stressed that there is indeed a financial  
      impact to the Town through savings in energy reduction and grants to achieve that goal. 
      An informational sheet on energy produced and savings realized from the THMS solar project     
      would reinforce that point. 
10.  J. Londa is working on compiling at list of suggested lighting upgrades on a town wide basis   
      that would be suitable for  Energy Performance Contracts to help reduce cost. 
11. The next meeting date was not established. 
     Meeting adjourned at 7:30 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
 
Joanne McQuaid 