===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
3. Kelly Brown was present to review our progress with the Green Community
Designation Application. October 30th is the deadline for submission.
4. The baseline will probably be the year after the PV was activated on the THMS,
'12-13. In order to calculate the energy use of the new proposed HS/MS complex
K. Brown said we should only use the existing square footage portion of the current
high school not any additional space. An annual review of our plan is required and we
can change the energy reduction plan as needed depending on the outcome of the
Town vote on the new school. The deadline for funding grant submissions is the end
of January. If approved we would get $145,000 plus an additional $10,000 for PV
generation. Next year we could apply for $200,000 in competitive grants
5. K. Brown reviewed the information to be submitted and made recommendations on
areas to change or modify. Even small changes of 1-2% can add up but we need to
document how the energy savings are calculated. She noted that the Public Safety
Building and the Library use a great amount of energy and recommended an energy
audit be preformed. A conversion to natural gas would be beneficial. J.Breault will
follow up on the possibility and feasibility.
6. We will need to assign a contact person from the group to upload the documents,
perhaps J.Londa or M.Benson. As of 9/5/13 our new Point of Contact person at the
DOER will be Joanne Bassette. She can offer preliminary consultation from now until
October 1st. Criteria #3 is the most complex. The information in Tables 1-4 is very
important especially the supporting data. A narrative about the proposed new school
complex should be included. About 50% of the information is completed; we need the
audits and energy consumption figures from the architect.
7. J. Londa made a motion that we approve the Fuel Efficiency Vehicle Policy. All in
favor. A letter of approval from the Selectmen and School Superintendent will be
required for the application submission.
7. The next meeting will be in September, date TBD later. Adjourned at 8:16 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
parame In Quaial
Joanne McQuaid
