===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
3. Stretch Code: D. Blatt was told by Building Inspector M.Sauvegeau that on 7/1/13 a new
code will be in place (2012 IEEC),stronger than the current Stretch Code, which may not be
revised until Fall 2013. M.Sauvegeau has no objection to the Stretch Code.
Robert Garrity of Mass Climate Action Network spoke regarding the Stretch Code in
Massachusetts. Fears are that it will kill new growth and be harder to sell homes. His
presentation showed that it really hasn't affected home sales and might actually be helping
as people realize the benefits of the new energy codes. The IEEC is a prescriptive method
(built to set of regulations) and the Stretch Code is performance based (using a blower door
test). S. DiCampo commented on renovations, only the part of the project that is being
touched must follow the code. As for the proposed new school building J. Londa said it
should be built as energy efficiently as possible.
If adopted at Town Meeting it can be delayed for 6 months and enforcement for another 6
months giving builders 1 year to adjust. The Town can also opt out of the program at a later
date if it is proving to be detrimental to the community. D. Blatt will confirm this with Kelly
Brown and also the amount of grant money that would be available (possibly $170,000 first
year than a competitive bid round in following years). M. Garrity pointed out that that there
is also a new fire sprinkler code going into effect but not related to the Stretch Code. J.
McQuaid will research how other towns have used their grants. The money might be able
to fund reimbursements for HERS rater inspections. D.Blatt paid $250.00 for this service
and also received 50 free CFL bulbs. Normally the utility company will reimburse the
homeowner but Unitil is not participating.
4. Other Projects: Exterior lighting at the THMS and Primary buildings is being converted
to LED for $16,700.00, saving 82% in energy use with a payback in 4.6 years.
J.Londa suggested that another possible use for the grant money would be to convert the
exterior lighting at the Public Library. He presented a list of additional suggestions.
5. Other Business: Steve DiCampo formally announced his resignation from the Task
Force. D. Blatt thanked him on behalf of all for his years of service.
6. Next meeting set for April 29th at 6:30 a the Ritter Building.
Meeting Adjourned at 8:44 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Read meete
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
