===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Minutes July 1 , 2013
Present: Members: D. Blatt, J. McQuaid, N. Sullivan
               Advisors:  J.Breault  , J. Londa
1.Meeting called to order at 6:35 P.M.  The minutes from 4/29/2013 were approved.
2.D.Blatt requested a review of the Green Community Application and status of projects 
to date. J. Breault noted that at the Public Safety Building the exterior lights (but not 
the pole lights) were being changed to LED and interior lights from T-12 to T-8ʼs with 
assistance from Unitil. They will be looking into doing the parking lot lights at the 
Public Library next.  It may be possible to get an energy audit for the Library also 
through Unitil.
   D.Blatt wondered if an Energy Performance Contract such as is being used in Littleton    
   could be applied toward the 20% energy reduction requirement and if the Grant could 
   be used for this measure. J. Londa stated that the Town would have to reduce the  
   amount of electricity and gasoline by 20% (measured in BTUʼs not dollar amount) and 
   a credit might be available from the solar PV system at THMS. We could go back 2 
   years in reporting but then we only have 3 years to attain the goal.  
   In order to proceed all energy cost ( oil, diesel, gas) for the Town Buildings needs to 
   be uploaded to the Mass InSight website. The street lights will not be included     
   because the Town doesnʼt own them. The goal is to have all this information by the 
   next meeting so we can establish a baseline year and then develop a plan to move 
   forward.  D.Blatt wondered if the Finance Committee would have any input on a plan.
3.D.Blatt spoke with the Building Inspector about the new building code in effect. 
Because the energy code has been increased signiﬁcantly the Stretch Code will not 
be increased.
4.J.Londa presented a draft policy for the Application regarding the use/replacement of  
   vehicles.  An accurate and veriﬁed list of non-exempt vehicles needs to be attained. 
   The goal is to replace all of them within 10 years within the Capital Plan. It was sent to 
   all departments with vehicles and the Town Manager for review. Also to be counted as 
   energy reduction is limiting “idle time” for vehicles waiting in pick-up lines.
5.Possible projects: J. Breault suggested the heating system at the DPW; perhaps and  
   exterior wood burner to utilize wood collected from tree removal along the roads and/
   or solar PV applications.  Also improvements could be made at the Eagle House.
6.A discuss about the title of our group was brought up by D.Blatt who will speak to the  
   Town Manager about “task force” vs. “committee”.
7.Next meeting Wed. 7/31/13 at 6:30 P.M. at the Ritter Building. Adjourned at 7:37 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Joanne McQuaid