===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
GREEN COMMUNITIES TASK FORCE
PS -David Blatt, Chair
go Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
Zachary Cutting, Member
MY -Neal Sullivan, Member
C Michael Conway, Member
John Londa, Advisor
James Breault, Advisor
Tel: 978-582-4147 ext 5
Fax: 978-582-4353
INCORPORA
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Minutes for 10/15/2014
Present: D. Blatt, M.Conway, J.Londa, McQuaid, N. Sullivan
1. Meeting called to order at 6:33 P.M. The Minutes from 3/25/14 and 7/15/14 were approved.
2. Update of Grant Application projects - Air compressor and VFD drive projects are completed
but J. Londa stated no funds have been received by Town Hall from the DOER. The quote
that J. Breault received for all the Town buildings was higher than estimated for the Grant but
all the school building projects were under budget. The rebates still need to be added in.
3. Feasibility Study for the Public Safety Building oil to gas conversion -The quote to prepare it
came in at $2,500.00. It would detail the scope of work, cost and possible savings. N. Sullivan
proposed that we approve and submit the quote to the DOER. J.McQuaid seconded. Approved
4. Unitil and National Grid incentives - The companies meet with J.Londa, J. Breault and D.Blatt
to discuss the new school complex. There are more incentives to change out the lighting; the
more incentives the higher the gain. Currently fluorescent lights are specified. It would be
more cost effective to install energy efficient fixtures during construction than to change them
later. J.Londa said the electrical portion of the contract is currently out to bid, due by the end
of October. LED lighting listed as "Alternative 1". The Contractor can choose from 3 types in
each level recommended by the Architect. The School Building Committee can only influence
the decision by selecting "Alternative 1" however, the MSBA will most likely reduce their
contributions by the percentage of what was saved in incentives. We can send a letter to the
School Building Committee with our recommendations.
5. J. Londa suggested we may need to update our planned projects depending on the outcome of
the Building Re-Use Committee's report to the Select Board. Some projects may no longer be
worthwhile endeavors and others may need addressing. Updated reports on oil usage by the
Town are needed. We need to submit Quarterly Reviews and an Annual Report to DOER.
6. Primary School- discussion passed over.
7. Other- The State has approved an increase in net metering. J.Londa looking into a Request For
Proposal for a solar installation on the new school complex.
J.McQuaid will confer with the DPW about the installation of the Green Community signs.
8. Next meeting date: TBD. Meeting adjourned 7:32 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Granne the Quart
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 30 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
