===PAGE 1===
  GREEN COMMUNITIES TASK FORCE  
 
  
David Blatt, Chair                                                                               960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary                                                                             Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Zachary Cutting, Member                                                                               Tel:978-582-4147 ext 5                                                                                          
Neal Sullivan, Member                                                                                    Fax: 978-582-4353 
Michael Conway, Member                                                                              Adam Burney, Advisor 
                                                                                                                         John Londa, Advisor                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         James Breault, Advisor 
Minutes for 12/23/2014  
Present: D. Blatt, M.Conway, J.Londa, McQuaid, N. Sullivan 
Observers: Robin Venezia (Library Trustee), Maryellen Ramstack 
1.Meeting called to order at 6:32 P.M. The Minutes from 10/15/14 were approved. 
2.Status of current projects - Library: J.Londa noted that the timer is not working and the 
outside lights are on during the day. K. Walker has taken over maintenance in J.Breault’s 
absence. Guardian Energy Systems provided a quote for the bollard and pole lights and the 
Public Safety Building exterior lights but both were higher than estimated. ($10,018/ Library 
and $14,066/PS). A second quote from North East Electrical Supply was still over the 
estimated price ($6,300/ Library and $11,000/PS). A third quote will be coming from Dierock 
Electric. Guardian was asked to re-quote the project by 1/9/15. DMH Electric will probably 
do the installation. The fixtures will remain the same but the lights will be changed to LED. 
Three written quotes are needed before awarding. 
Library Trustee, Robin Venezia , expressed concern that due to the rising cost, the Library 
needs to reduce their electrical usage. They appreciate having the exterior lights replaced and 
wondered if anything could be done with the interior ones. J. Londa noted that currently there 
are 18 up lights using 400 W. If retrofitted they could save 14,446 kWh/yr; possibly a 
$3-4,000. saving per year. It was suggested that the Trustees and staff know the building the 
best and should go through the building to see which lights can be left off, at least during 
some time periods and where motion sensors might be utilized. K. Walker could make 
adjustments. D.Blatt said that Green Community Grant money is available as well as utility 
incentives. R. Venezia noted that the Library is in charge of their own budget but contracted 
with the Town plan for the next 2 years with a fixed rate. 
    N. Sullivan asked if we were all comfortable with the current bidders, could we approve  
    selecting the lowest bidder prior to our next meeting? D.Blatt motioned that we approve the  
    money required, up to $17,300.00 for the Library and Public Safety Building lighting projects  
    but go with the lowest bidder. Also to be provided at the same time are the repairs to the     
    Library timer clock for $500.00 Seconded by N.Sullivan.  Approved. 
    When the lights are actually installed we need to submit photos or contact local media to   
    promote public awareness.  

===PAGE 2===
3. Next Projects to Fund: We were under the estimated budgets for the first set of projects.  
    J.Londa noted that since then new products (ie: LED replacements for fluorescent bulbs,   
    Phillips instant start ballast) are being developed that would make other projects more feasible.   
    To date $17,402. was approved, less $7,140. in rebates resulting in $10,262. actually spent. 
  
    D.Blatt motioned to approve funding for envelope tightening at THMS ($1,000.) and the Eagle  
    House ($2,000.) Seconded by J.McQuaid. Approved. The DPW will have to obtain quotes and  
    contact Mass Save for assistance. 
    Eagle House Interior Lighting: A survey is needed; a room by room list of all lighting fixtures,    
    quantities and photos. Perhaps only bulbs rather than whole fixtures need to be replaced. Mass  
    Save can perform the survey. 
4. D. Blatt suggested posting request in the Lunenburg Ledger to give local contractors an  
    opportunity to bid on the Grant projects. N. Sullivan commented that timing was critical for  
    the current projects; we should stay with current bidders for now. Going forward we could   
    solicit input from local contractors. 
5. Solar by-law: Current bylaws provide for large scale solar and small residential based systems  
    but not for mid-size projects. Current setbacks are for double the dimension of the arrays on   
    all sides.  M. Ramstack mentioned that the DOER minimum setback is 50’. M.Conway noted  
    that a 3 MW systems would utilize about 15 acres. J. Londa suggested that maybe it could be  
    scaled according to the size of the lot. N. Sullivan questioned if the property was not zoned  
    commercial, could they sell power? J. McQuaid  noted that the visual impact on abutters needs  
    to be considered. M.Conway said that we should first look at the wording already proposed by    
    the Planning Board. Agreed to further discuss at next meeting. 
6. Updates: The School Building Committee has approved the LED lighting upgrade option for   
    the new school building.  J.Londa said the cost would be $50,000 less utility rebates. He is  
    sending out a RFP for solar on the roof as well as the DPW annex building and possibly the  
     main DPW building. N.Sullivan suggested considering Electric Vehicle recharging stations.  
    The Green Community road signs have still not been located. J.McQuaid will go to Town Hall  
    to look for them. 
7. Next meeting should include A. Burney,; possibly 1/13/15. Need to confirm date. 
    Meeting adjourned 8:30 P.M. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary 