===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
GREEN COMMUNITIES TASK FORCE
Void
JirQuaid
David Blatt, Chair
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary.:
Zachary Cutting, Member
Neal Sullivan, Member
Michael Conway, Member
John Londa, Advisor
James Breault, Advisor
MBURG
Tel: 978-582-4147 ext 5
Fax: 978-582-4353
INCORPOSE
Minutes for 7/15/2014
Present: D. Blatt, M. Conway, Z. Cutting, J McQuaid, N. Sullivan, J. Londa
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenbur EC LIVED & FILED
OCT 1 6 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1. Meeting called to order at 6:30 P.M. No Minutes were available for approval.
2. Review of Grant Application projects to determine the order of completion to match the
approved funding (25% of Grant = $39,250.00). Utility incentives need to be refunded to
Contractor of project. J. Londa stated no funds have been received by Town Hall yet. They
are creating a line item for accounting purposes. As of 6/24/14 the Grant Coordinator said we
were okayed to proceed.
3. Managing projects and allocating funds: Motion by Z.Cutting to combine the VFD drives and
air compressor replacement for THMS to maximize the rebate from Unitil. Motion seconded
by N. Sullivan. Approved. Motion by N. Sullivan to approve the light replacements, time
clock and photo eye at the Library and light replacements at the Public Safety, as estimated
not to exceed 10% of the total cost including the rebates. Motion seconded by Z.Cutting.
Approved. M. Conway will create an Excel spread sheet of projects and expenses.
Next Priorities: Envelope tightening at the Eagle House and THMS, and light
replacements at Eagle House. To proceed with the heat conversion at the Public Safety
complex a company is needed that will conduct a feasibility study for $5000.00. J.Londa will
contact a company for a proposal to do the study and create an estimated cost. Unitil will
extend the gas line down from Walmart for a price.
4. J.Londa noted that the energy baseline is now one year old and should be available for the
annual review for the next meeting so we can revise the Energy Reduction Plan.
5. Review Town Employee Energy Policy and timetable: D.Blatt said that according to the
Lunenburg Ledger the Selectmen did not approve the Energy Plan. No other information was
available at this time.
6. Community Education Update: Display is ongoing at the Town Library.
7. Next meeting date: TBD, mid September.
8. Meeting adjourned 7:30 P.M.
Respectfully submitted
Joanne McQuaid
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
