===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
David Blatt, Chair
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
Zachary Cutting, Member
Neal Sullivan, Member
Michael Conway, Member
GREEN COMMUNITIES TASK FORCE
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Tel:978-582-4147 ext 5
Fax: 978-582-4353
Adam Burney, Advisor
John Londa, Advisor
James Breault, Advisor
Minutes for 1/20/2015
Present: D. Blatt, A.Burney, M.Conway, J.Londa, McQuaid, N. Sullivan (at 7:15 PM)
Observers: Maryellen Ramstack, Dick Mailloux (Library), Venezia (Library), Jay Simeone (Finance)
1. Meeting called to order at 6:32 P.M. The Minutes from 12/23/14 were approved.
2. Public Safety and Library Project Update- J. Londa obtained 3 quotes for both: Guardian $16,683,
N.E. Electric $17,300 and Di-Rock $9,800. All are retro-fits of existing fixtures, new timers were not
included. The bid will go to Di-Rock and have them look at the timer replacement at the same time as
the exterior lights.
3. Library, New Interior Project: D.Blatt asked the Library Trustees to look at the current interior light-
ing configuration to see when lights are needed to be on. Fixture changes may be needed especially
up lights in main hall. The Library Trustees said that Guardian looked at the interior lights, only quot-
ing bulb replacement, They also noted that the heating system is problematic. K. Walker needs to
check it daily to make sure it is running. The 10 yr old furnace may need replacing as well as the
building energy management system. J. Londa noted that it would cost approximately $70,000 to re-
place it. The same company installed the energy system at the Primary school and he's till chasing
problems 10 years later. D. Mailloux said to never worked well. The GCTF will review the quotes
and Return on Investment (ROL) once available and submit them to the DOER.
4. Eagle House- Interior Lighting: D. Blatt made a survey of the existing lights noting that the office fix-
tures seem to be in the wrong position for best lighting of work stations. J. Londa has access to a
light meter to test lumen output. J.McQuaid reminded them to check with Unitil for rebates. D. Blatt
noted that the Town Manger needs to contact MassSave for an energy assessment for attic insulation.
A. Burney noted that the work does not need to go out to bid but we will need to use a Unitil ap-
proved vendor.
5. Solar By Law - A. Burney said that the Planning Board will not even have it on their agenda until
March. It won't be ready for Town Meeting until Late 2015 or Spring 2016.
6. GCTF webpage - J. McQuaid noted that the content is 2-3 years old, as well as the information on the
cable access page. The Members need to review the material and make suggestions for changes.
===PAGE 2===
7. New items - J.L.onda updated us on the Baseline. Another Quarterly Report is due soon. He will start
the draft copy. The photo with the Green Community road signs is still needed. (They still have not
located so new ones may need to be ordered.) A questionnaire for the DOER also needs to be com-
pleted.
8. D. Blatt meet with the Town Manager. A suggestion was made that the GCTF come under the direc-
tion of the TM so a quorum is not necessary for meetings. The Energy Policy still needs to be ap-
proved as part of 20% Reduction plan. The GCTF discussed the need for a new mission now that we
have become a Green Community. What do they want us to do? Will we have any authority to com-
plete projects? A. Burney suggested that maybe they lack knowledge about the projects we are work-
ing on.
9. Re-Organization- D. Blatt noted that he needs to step down as Chair. J.McQuaid submitted her resig-
nation but will stay on temporarily until replacement can be found.
10.Meeting Adjourned at 7:45 PM to join Selectman's meeting. No new meeting date set.
Respectfully Submitted,
Joanne he Said
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
