===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
David Blatt, Chair
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
Zachary Cutting, Member
Neal Sullivan, Member
Michael Conwav. Member
GREEN COMMUNITIES TASK FORCE
NEURG
INCORPORA
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Tel:978-582-4147 ext 5
Fax: 978-582-4353
Adam Burney, Advisor
John Londa, Advisor
James Breault, Advisor
Minutes for 3/18/2015
Present: D. Blatt, Z. Cutting, J.Londa, McQuaid, N. Sullivan
Observers: Jay Simeone (Finance Committee)
1. Meeting called to order at 6:04 P.M. The Minutes from 1/20/15 were approved.
2. Public Safety and Library Project Update- J. Londa said that Di-Rock submitted the projects to Unitil
and they are awaiting approval to begin work. Z.Cutting suggested getting "Before" pictures.
3. Eagle House- Interior Lighting: J. Londa noted that some new fixtures are necessary because re-
placement bulbs didn't work with the current ballast. Also some need dimmer switches. The project
can proceed in 2 phases: ones with bulbs and ones with fixtures. There is only enough in the Grant to
pay for the bulbs, not an electrician. The electrician will have to put in a bid for the labor. J. Londa
will submit the bid to the vendor. The MassSave rebates will be applied automatically. A motion was
made by D.Blatt to approve the interior lamp replacements minus all the fluorescent tube fixtures
with the DOER Grant money. N. Sullivan seconded. All approved. D.Blatt suggested that Phyllis
Luck of the Select Board and Doreen Noble, the Eagle House Director need to contact Mass Save for
a Energy Assessment prior to the envelope tightening portion of the project. J.McQuaid will follow
up with them.
4. Library, New Interior Project: J.Londa reported that of the 4 timer clocks in place, 2 are out of service
and need to be reactivated. Di-Rock will try to put them back online. Some exterior lights need to be
on from dusk to dawn and others have broken lamps so they can't be tested and are running 24/7 now.
J. Londa felt that if we start woking on the lights we should finish fixing them. He suggested remov-
ing the ballast and replacing the bulbs. Z. Cutting pointed out that replacing the lamps is going out-
side the scope and we won't capture the energy savings. Only $500.00 has been budgeted for the
timers. N. Sullivan pointed out that the Library's input on fixtures is important. He motioned that as
long as Di-Rock is close to the $500.00 budget for T & M that they fix the 2 exit lights by the Chil-
dren's Garden on timers. Second by Z. Cutting. Approved
J. Londa noted that the Library is not currently operating as designed, and is not functioning properly.
After using a light meter he determined that some areas are over lit. J. Simeone suggested we schedule
a workshop with the Library trustees to review current lighting practices.
===PAGE 2===
5. New Projects:
- Possible re-lamping of THMS proposed by J. Londa. The ballast were done in 2009. No new fixtures
will be needed, only lamps and they can be replaced by the staff.
- Replace emergency lights at the Primary School. D. Blatt suggested making 2 projects for it: small
lights and large ones.
- D. Blatt noted that we still need to submit the oil to gas conversion for the Public Safety Building
- J. McQuaid will check with J. Rodriquez for any other potential projects.
- J.LOnda is waiting on a RFP for a 300 kw solar roof installation on the new school (Power Purchase
Agreement) which is about 40% of the energy cost.
6. Meeting adjourned 7:40 P.M. Next meeting TBD.
Respectfully Submitted,
Joanne TeQuaid
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary
