===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Green Communities Task Force
TEMBURG
David Blatt, Chairmans
Greg Bittner
Neal Sullivan
Liz Murphy
*
INCORPOR
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 2 0 2017
LUNENBURG 1'!;
960 Massachusetts Avette OF:
Lunenburg MA 01462
Tel: 978-582-4147 Ext 5
Fax 978-582-4353
Adam Burney, Advisor
John Londa, Liaison
Jim Breault, Liaison
Minutes for October 4, 2017
Present: David Blatt- Chair, Greg Bittner, Neal Sullivan, Liz Murphy, John Londa, Heather
Lemieux - Town Manager
Meeting was Called to Order at 6:30 PM.
Minutes from March 29, 2017 meeting were reviewed. G.B. made a motion to approve, N.S.
seconded.
No Public Comment
J. Londa provided a copy of the draft annual report. The report was reviewed and areas to be
updated were discussed. The report needs to be submitted by December 11, 2017 to be eligible
for the next grant round. It was noted that the only issue we might have related to the report is
our list of new residential should have HERS ratings and some of this data is missing, from the
Building Department report. J. Londa reported he will work on vehicle listing updates, following
up with the Building Department report and updating baseline data for the annual report.
Recommendations for upcoming projects for the next grant round were discussed. Turkey Hill
envelope and roof projects as well as lighting at the school were raised as well developed-
shovel ready projects with an estimated $70,000 cost. Town Hall also has significant potential
for energy improvements. J. Londa also recommended pursuing a public safety building
assessment, either with the CADMAS(sp?) or perhaps MRPC could develop a similar project.
H. Lemieux will compile a "wish list" for town buildings with department input for the committee
to review with return on investment in mind. List will need to be available by early November.
MRPC has reached out and reported they have a grant to develop new projects. H. Lemieux
volunteered to act as liaison with MRPC and invite them to the next task force meeting.
Discussion was had regarding the Task Force's status as a task force or committee. The Chair
suggested that selectman develop a charter for the task force to become a committee. Our
charge is to reduce energy consumption by 20% but this is not clearly stated in a charter.
Having support of selectmen can help convey the importance of this work to town departments
and changing the charter provides an opportunity to articulate this support. J. Londa suggested
the Task Force draft a charter for review by the selectmen. Any ideas for the charter should be
===PAGE 2===
emailed to the Chair. It was suggested the Town Manager could act as liaison to other
departments to assist in this work, as well as developing a presentation of the work to inform
others.
The next meeting date was set as November 8th, 2017 at 6:30 PM. MRPC will be invited to
attend.
L.Murphy motioned to adjourn, N. Sullival seconded the motion at 7:45 PM.
Respectfully Submitted,
Elizabeth Murphy
