===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
David Blatt, Chairman
Greg Bitter 40
Neal Sullivan
Liz Murphy
RECEIVED & FILED
Town of Lunenburg
Green Communities Task Force
CYBURG
INCORPOR
NOV 1 3 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg MA 01462
Tel: 978-582-4147 Ext 5
Fax 978-582-4353
Adam Burney, Advisor
John Londa, Liaisor
Jim Breault, Liaison
Minutes for March 29, 2017
Present: David Blatt, Greg Bittner, Neal Sullivan, Liz Murphy, John Londa, Heather Lemieux
Meeting was Called to Order at 6:30 PM.
Minutes from December 20, 2016 meeting were reviewed and approved unanimously.
No Public Comment
First Funding Round Projects were reviewed, J. Londa reported the last projects were fully
complete, inspected by Unitil and release of energy efficiency incentives would follow. There
was one change order-for 8 primary school and 8 library light fixtures.
Two lighting issues are still outstanding at the library. One, lighting in one room is too bright and
needs dimmer switch, and two, retrofit kits were installed but had a loud fan, they were returned.
DMH, the electrical contractor is likely willing to work with us, but funding deadline is end of
March and Library Trustees would like to make the decisions on the projects. J. Londa thought
he found a bulb that is quiet and may satisfy the Trustees, at a cost of $220 per bulb. We have
enough funding left to purchase one bulb. D.Blatt will ask the Dept. of Energy Resources if we
can use the remaining funding to purchase a bulb as a trial.
Discussion was had regarding the decision making process and authority to implement projects
in various public buildings. D. Blatt proposed either selectmen give support and formal authority
to this board to implement green projects, or the board awards funding based on scope of work
proposed by the body representing the public building in question.
Next steps for First Round Projects- DOER visits projects and gives final approval. We will
return the balance of $382.13 in this year's funding round if DOER does not allow us to use
funds to try one bulb that may suit the library's needs.
L. Murphy shared information from the City of Fitchburg regarding their costs and experiences in
converting streetlights to LED. Fitchburg purchased 3080 lights from Unitil at a cost of
$300,000, ($17 per light) in order to convert to LED. $1,000,000 was spent to convert the lights
to LED, including networking the lights. A $275,000 rebate was awarded by Unitil. The annual
costs went from $157 per light when Unitil owned, to $90 when the City owned them, to $35
after LED conversion.
Heather was able to report Lunenburg's street light count at 333
lights of varying wattage with annual costs of $122 per light. Our FY 18 budget projects a cost of
$129 per light. J. Londa reminded the board that asking for a price for the acquisition of street
===PAGE 2===
lights with Unitil starts a negotiation clock and we should not begin that process before we are
ready.
It is likely to cost the equivalent of one years lighting bill to purchase the lights. It was
suggested that net metering credits be used for the purchase. If that is allowable, grant funds
could then be used to do the conversion. Motion was made by G. Bittner, seconded by N.
Sullivan to ask selectmen to investigate whether net metering credits can be used to purchase
the street lights.
New Projects for FY18- Discussion was had regarding future projects at specific buildings.
There was some question about return of investment for oil to gas conversion at the public
service building The Board could seek suggestions from the Building Reuse Committee as well.
Brief discussion was also had regarding bringing in a consultant to help develop projects for the
next grant round. Project expeditors through utility companies will complete assessments, we
can seek this assistance to inform decisions. Below is a list of potential projects for 2018
funding:
Turkey Hill Middle School envelope project-ready to proceed
Lighting conversion at the schools- ready to proceed
~ Town Hall and the Ritter Building,- heating and air sealing- need energy assessment first
-Street light conversion- need to acquire first
- Senior Center air sealing and attic insulation- talk to MassSave first
A motion was made by D. Blatt, seconded by N. Sullivan to request energy audits by Unitil for all
town buildings. H. Lemieux will contact John DiNapoli for energy assessments.
John Londa presented an Annual Report from the Building Inspector of New Construction and
HERS ratings for each new project. Based on this, our Energy Conservation Measure, Criteria
3- we are down 6.3% from our 2013 baseline with a weather normalized basis if 4.4%. Criteria 4
involves the purchase of fuel efficient vehicles. We received feedback from Fire but not Police,
and all vehicles purchased to comply with the policy.
G. Bittner motioned to adjourn, L. Murphy seconded the motion at 7:45 PM.
Respectfully Submitted,
Elizabeth Murphy
