===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INCO
some sunna, widison
Jim Breault, Liaison
Minutes for February 27, 2018
Present: David Blatt- Chair, Greg Bittner, Neal Sullivan, Liz Murphy, John Londa, Heather
Lemieux -Town Manager, Karen Chapman - Principal Planner at MRPC, John DiNapoli - Unitil
Representative
RECEIVED & FILED
Meeting was Called to Order at 6:34 PM.
No Public Comments
AUG 0 8 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
John DiNapoli presented information regarding converting lights to LED, and/or purchasing the
streetlights. Using tariff information, they can project cost savings for LED conversion. The
town would be responsible for unappreciated costs of the assets, costs of removing the old
lights and installing new lights, but not the cost of the bulb itself. We would also need to
estimate costs of police details for the work. John reports it would take 3-4 weeks to analyze
the data. This is an informal inquiry, the Town Manager would need to email John to advise if
we are purchasing or staying with unitil to provide maintenance of the lights. It was noted these
lights are not kept in stock and we need to consider time to order the LED lights. If we want to
use a bulb not on Unitil supply list, we would need to provide info to Unitil so engineers could
review specifications. A member of the public asked if conversion could be phased in based on
age of the bulbs; with oldest first. J. L mentioned this will not allow us to reap the most savings
as quickly as possible, a consideration for the grant. The Town Manager will send the request to
Unitil to perform the tariff investigation/audit.
The proposed project spreadsheet was reviewed next. The Turkey Hill envelope project
proposal was handed out by J.L., the return on investment for this is 9.6 years. The Turkey Hill
lighting project ROl is 4.7 years with the rebate. John Londa will oversee the school projects.
The project team for non-school projects will be Heather Lemieux and Jack Rodriquenz. The
expectation is to complete projects by the end of the year. Karen noted that the grant allows for
administrative costs of up to 10% for project management expenses.
The energy source audit summary was reviewed, the total combined ROl for these projects is
4.2 but some individual projects have ROl's as long as 12.4 years and DOER can pick and
===PAGE 2===
to buy them and apply for the next grant to convert the lights.
G.B. reported on the process to become a committee. We would request to the Town Manager
to start that process. After some discussion, it was agreed, there is not a need at this time but it
would be good to get a few more members on the task force.
G.B. motioned to adjourn, N.S. seconded the motion. The meeting was adjourned at 7:55 PM.
De
Respectfully Submitted,
Elizabeth Murphy
