===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Jill Dicalit, Ladisoll
Green Communities 3.12.20
Call to order 6:33
In attendance were David Blatt, Neal Sullivan, Liz Murphy, John Londa, Karen Chapman
D.B. briefed the group on the BOS meeting, good response from board of selectmen, warrant to
either change LED or purchase will go to town meeting. It was noted that there was no option
to do nothing at least.
Possible Projects for Karen to review and propose for grant application submission :
Kit sent Karen a list of projects possible for grant application, including itemizing appliances at
various buildings.
Library- envelope study- weatherization contractor would come in. They are not allowing for
weatherization audits so out this is not an option. Recessed LED lights - grant doesn't allow just
bulb replacement, would need to be whole fixture. An additional boiler- would need a study first,
is also not an option. Staff room has a, fridge, stove, range and microwave- the fridge could be
could be replaced with the grant.
Senior Center-dishwasher, generator, disposal, dishwasher are ok. Also AC system, possibly
switch to mini split but might need audit
Teen Center- fridge, microwave, A/C heat Pump (two floors)- fridge would be eligible, would
need audit.
Teen Center is an indirect water tank that is apartment size, could do a domestic hot water tank
without an audit. Could do a high efficiency hot water heater- indirect. Also no insulation for
heat & hot water pipes in the basement, could potentially do without audit.
Town Hall- vote for move to TC Passios in fall. There are heat system issues but we would
need an audit to proceed. Two mini fridges, and microwaves, the fridges are eligible.
Ritter Building- fridge, microwave, electric water heater. We could do the fridge and electric
water heater. Could also add controls to the hot water system so the circulation isn't running
24/7.
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 09 2020
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
-
===PAGE 2===
Whalom Beach House- it's not eligible, not on existing list of buildings
Building Operator certification training for up to two staff members- we'd like to apply for this.
One from town buildings, one for schools. Karen will get the costs for training.
PD is looking to buy two hybrid vehicles, SUV interceptors, PD will need a quote and when they
will be purchased, the remaining funds will have to come from the capital plan. It looks like they
will be purchased in FY21
Animal Control Officer- minivan- stripped down van $26k. Ford Expedition will go away- this
isn't going to be grant funded but will save over existing.
Will need to get installation quotes for the hot water tank- energy star will do a rebate. Will need
make and model of existing and proposed for fridges and dishwashers.
Schools projects:
Lunenburg Primary School, domestic hot water upgrade, 2 60 gallons, or perhaps the smaller,
for 100 gallon capacity- didn't see energy star rebates on them. Carrying 9K as cost, includes
installation, purchase and ventilation, looking at either 96% efficiency or 90%, would like to get
something at least 94% efficiency, 96 is more gallons then needed.
Lunenburg Middle High School- LED conversion in kitchen and receiving area- would be an
edge lit flat panel.
Turkey Hill School- replace 20 year old two-door reach-in fridge with the same. Replace
convection oven and milk cooler -both are 50 years old
Total project costs 31, 155-total project savings $2877. It will pay for itself over 10 years.
Karen, needs all the paperwork that John has in order to complete the grant application. John
will forward paperwork to her. Kit will need to get a model number for all of the fridges. Well
need estimates for installation and savings for hot water tank replacements. We could look at
energy star narratives on potential savings for the application or efficiency comparisons from old
to new. We need Kit to figure these out. David will try to figure out the cost savings for the teen
center. Whatever calculators are used online, screenshot it so it can be attached to the grant.
We could try to put a few items in with the expectation that they will follow up with a request for
additional information when reviewing the application.
Dave will send an email to Kit, Jack, Heather, and explain what we need, and why- and that we
can't do the envelope work because of lack of audits. We'll need quotes with sizing and costs.
If we have a huge air compressor at DPW can we go smaller to save energy? Need info by
===PAGE 3===
We will also apply for admin fees in grants.
Motion to adjourn, NS scorned- LM- 7:40 PM.
Respectfully Submitted,
Liz Murphy
