===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
CLERK OFFICE
Green Communities meeting 2.27.20
In attendance: Neil Sullivan, David Blatt, John Londa, Liz Murphy, Heather Lemieux -Town
Manager
Meeting was called to order at 6:30
Meeting called to order at 6:10
Motion to approve minutes 2.6.20 and 6.5.19 N.S, Second L.M.
Grant application- any items to be proposed must go to her by the Monday before the
application is due. March 27, 5PM is the due date. John L. Is going to provide projects for
schools. We will consult with Kit on public safety building
Sept. 26- letter from Unitil to purchase or rent, 86K for purchase. Between June 2019 and Jan
of 2020, cost to buy lights went up over 3K, John DiNapoli reported they replace one fifth of
lights each year and that is why the price has gone up. They do not give a list of lights replaced
to the town, per Heather.
Costs will be 45K to 46,700 to convert to LED
Referring to spreadsheet handout- 4 different types of lights. Why do we have different lights?
John D. Reports, they replace what is there. Is there reason for higher wattage on some of the
lights? D.B reports we could add to savings by requesting lower wattage bulbs. Heather
recommends asking public safety to review and potential changes on light wattage.
If Unitil converts our town bill would go from 72,600 per year to 41,000
Reviewing the spreadsheet again, Total yearly electric charge if we own lights, luminaire charge
is the "rental fee" unitil changes light.
If the town wants to apply for a grant for the conversion, the town must own the lights. New cost
for Unitil to convert and maintain- 46K, we recoup the cost in 18 months.
Consulted with the City of Fitchburgs's maintenance contractors- they have had two contractors
since their conversion. Costs range from 15K to 50K. The costs can be high in Fitchburg
because they have some very decorative light poles, every time a decorative light pole is hit, the
===PAGE 2===
Heather reiterates her apprehension of the ability of depts and staff to take on additional work,
even just looking at bidding maintenance agreements, take calls, call maintenance contactor.
Heather is in favor of Unitil conversion, funding with town money. We have to consider if we
have capacity to take on that much savings with current net metering. J.L. Reports it could go
to T.C. Passios. There are schools that can use them. We have about 40K in net metering
credits.
D.S asked if we can submit an article for warrant or does the selectman have to do this?
Heather reports, the selectboard would have to decide if they put the article into the warrant.
We could propose two articles, one with Unitil and one to purchase and use a maintenance
contact. D.B. Suggested savings could be put in a part time position. J.L. Suggests we work
with selectboard to understand what they want and not have two proposals at the town
meetings. We should be prepared to present recommendations to the Selectboard.
There is also a third option, can we use a consultant to manage the process, there is a
consultant who does this work for many towns. We would still have to procure his services.
D.B. will refine this again and will prepare a powerpoint. The bottom line will be saving $25K.
With the town having just hired an assistant town manager, it may free up some time for the
Town Manager to take on procurement work related to this project. All three board members
present agree our recommendation should be to make the purchase. D.B. Will include a 20
year projection of savings, buying vs. renting.
New Projects- J. L.provided a handout.
Primary School- domestic hot water conversions, not HVAC projects, because it doesn't require
an audit. Our current hot water heaters are 420 gallon tanks. During the months the heating
system is off, we use 100 gallon light duty. Both are 15 years old. We do need redundancy in
case one fails. The proposal is to replace both with two 60-75 gallon high efficiency gas fired
heaters. Would be looking for vendors to come in and replace water heaters, modify gas and
hot water lines, reinsulate and piping, modify digital controls to enable, monitor, and report
alarms for failure. Proposed vendor is Energy Source. J. L estimates about $20K with
equipment, labor etc. The savings is reducing hot water production and additional efficiency of
high efficiency heaters. Vendors would come in to provide estimated savings and ROl. This is
in our capital plan and saves energy and cost. D.B. asked if we could do instant hot water
heaters, but J.L. reports we have to have a recirculating loop.
-
===PAGE 3===
GIl
could work and her vehicle is on the capital plan. Karen reports hybrid police vehicle grants are
5K. PD has been replacing vehicles every year or so probably is something on capital plan.
Another option, Electric Charging station- would be a nice thing to have. It has to be publicly
accessible.
DPW- We could look at air compressors-high efficiency air compressors are on the list. We
know they have compressors there.
Air dryers are also an option.
Building Operator Certification training- could send Kit, maybe someone from schools. J.L. has
taken a course, it's a week long, good course.
Karen will email kit to discuss some of the potential projects he could suggest. Perhaps we can
get a copy of the capital plan.
Public safety carport reconfiguration-can we add solar priority 15.
Senior Center kitchen remodel- 22K
Ritter Kitchen remodel- 12K
Police vehicle two police vehicles - priority 4 and 6
Senior center kitchen is priority 16 out of 21
Ritter is 19 or 21
Animal control vehicle- priority 8 26K
Action items-
Karen email Kit and Cc Jack
Dave will email heather and powerpoint for selectmen and check on any
recommendations/suggestions from the Town for upcoming projects.
Next meeting March 12th. 6:30
Motion to adjourn- 7:54. LM, second NS.
Respectfully Submitted,
Liz Murphy
