===PAGE 1===
Green Communities Meeting 
 
Opened 6:23 
 
Present: Jon Londa, Karen Chapman, David Blatt, Neil Sullivan, Robert Oliva, David Passios, 
Jay Simeone 
 
No public comment 
No minutes to review 
 
The town received a letter from Unitil with the cost of $89,161.56 for purchase of streetlights.  
We are also trying to get a list from Unitil on when light and arms were last replaced to have a 
better sense of age when we go out to bid.  MAPC suggested towns need to look at potential 
old corroded wiring that needs replacing.  Should factor this into projected costs. 
 
Unitil gave us a copy of the December bill with all of the lights.  Out of the $6000 bill for the 
month, $4327 is maintenance 2021 is for the actual electricity.   
 
Karen reported April 9 is the next round of grant funding and we’d have to have all work done, 
paid and reported by February12th.   
If we miss April 9, the next opportunity would be October 8th.  Rob and John- would we be able 
to complete the school and appliance purchases by then?  Rob is a little concerned it couldn’t 
be completed by that time.  Particularly any work at public safety where work needs to be done 
with a contractor.  The Public safety building has a form related to retro commissioning repairs 
that the vendor needs to fill out and send to Heather.  Heather has not received that. 
 
John described the Building Operator Certification course that he went through 3-4 years ago.  
We have a slot for someone from the town side and the school side to take the course.  Rob 
said he’ll look at it and if it's something he can do, he’ll do it.  John talked to colleagues about 
someone taking the class but it hasn’t gotten confirmation.  He will follow up.   
 
At the Teen Center David is working on activities there but would be hard pressed to complete 
by February. 
 
John is working on an LED retrofitting project at schools.  After installing, a couple went out, and 
more are on order.   
 
Also, at the schools, a double convection oven and new reach-in cooler is in.  The milk cooler is 
coming in next week.  Disposal of the coolers will need to be done and then the project is 
complete.   
 
Earlier discussions included hot water tank replacement at Primary School but once reviewed, 
the cost, at 30K, was prohibitive.  We won't be able to do this with these funds.  This potential 
project should get cancelled from this grant round.   
===PAGE 2===
Heather asked- if a project ran under estimate- can we reappropriate/reallocate?  Karen reports 
that competitive grants are not eligible to reallocate but will check with Kelly.  Heather reports 
she has an email from Jane that we can shift funds around within our projects.   
 
Timeline for purchase- We’d like to get info on the age of infrastructure from Unitil before 
purchase. Should we look to do this ASAP or wait for more info? Unitil’s attorneys are still 
working on a sale agreement. Liz suggested minimizing the time we own lights before the grant 
is approved for the retrofit.  Karen- suggests we RFP first to have the costs of retrofitting then 
apply for grant, and make the purchase at that time of getting grant.  There is also an effort by 
members to audit street lights, for adequate lumination and whether they are currently working.  
Robert suggests we don’t try to go brighter on any lights so we don’t get complaints from 
residents who see the light as too bright.  He suggests don’t make too many changes on lights.  
Karen suggests trying to get geocoded coordinates- MRPC can make a map of each pole.   Rob 
worked in Gardner and did retrofit, the contract there was $580 per light replacement.  Dave is 
going to reach out to MAPC who now does consulting about light procurement.  Sent a booklet 
on development of scope of work for retrofitting streetlights.  
 
John wants to remind all, we have net metering credit going against this.  Once we own lights, 
we need to move net metering credits, maybe to public safety.  We would then save that money 
otherwise spent on electricity.  We will also have savings in maintenance charges of 4000 per 
month by until.   
 
Upcoming tasks:  
Chair asks that we look over the documents sent from MAPC about converting street lights and 
putting together an RFP.  
We’d likely need to have projects complete by August and reports done and submitted to apply 
in October.   
Rob has a copy of the contract from Gardner for retrofit and will get that to us.   
 
 
Meeting in February.   
 
Motion to adjourn -NS- LM second.  7:24PM.   
 
 