===PAGE 1===
Green Communities Meeting Minutes 
12.8.22 
 
In attendance DB, MS, LM, C.H, D.P guest- Kim, Heather L on zoom, guest George Woodbury 
via phone.   
6:05 call to order 
 
Prospective consultant, George Woodbury gave us a proposal with a scope of work.  DB 
showed the  proposal from George on screen.  This proposal could be incorporated into a 
standard contract by the Town.  #3 on the proposal could be taken out.   
 
Matt proposed we  get more clarity on what #7 includes-  “assist with coordinating post project 
maintenance”. 
 
Each item in the proposal was discussed- item 3 is the pilot for different lights.  We suggest we 
don’t do the pilot.  George suggested we consider glare reduction or no glare reduction.  
Diffuser creates spillover light.  DP asks George the percentage of clients that use the diffuser- 
per George -25%.  George stated Leicester and Warwick RI have the diffusers .  DB reports 
we’d rather go look at other communities and check out how those diffusers look than pilot it 
here.   
 
DB asked what #7 entails.  It means assisting in the contract preparation for a post-install 
contract for maintenance for a period of time.   
 
DB asked Heather to give us details of additional lights we found in the final assessment - she 
said 19.  The total number is 346.  We found more lights we weren't paying for then lights we 
were being charged for that didn’t exist. It’s a net positive to the town. 
 
DB asked what the next step is.  George said he will send someone to come up to do an audit 
of all of the lights and map the whole system, then George will get the audit and prepare the 
report after the audit is complete.   
 
If all the stars alight, how long a process is this?  Will will be able to go out to bid in January.  
The project could be completed in April.  The only other issue is lead time on the product.  
Certain products have a 38 week lead time, some would be quicker. The difference in product 
price could be 60-80 per fixture.   
DP reports, we applied for a grant assuming we would need to do soup to nuts including 
monitoring and we shouldn’t have to penny pinch.  George also reported he could sit down with 
us through the holidays to go over the specifics of the products and which products we want to 
go with.  MS asked if weather or season is an issue for installation.  George said no, unless we 
have weather events. 
 
George suggests the critical path is getting the product locked in so we can get it ordered as 
soon as possible to deal with lead time.   
===PAGE 2===
George will be up here for other projects and would like to meet with us at the same time.  We 
are looking at the last two weeks of Dec.    
 
DB asked, what about adding lights if PD says we should have a new one at specific locations 
for safety.  It's the cost of arm and light, but also Unitil has to review and see if they have to do 
“make ready work”.  This would be about $400.  George reports we have more than enough 
money to be flexible.   
 
Regarding maintenance- we could do a three year contract  if that’s standard.  Heather stated 
we could start with a one year contract with an option to extend for 3 if we like the contractor.    
 
KD asked what part of the street light is being replaced, CH reported it's just the light fixture but 
possibly some arms if they need it.  DP said he still believes we should replace the arms.  
George doesn’t necessarily agree but we can discuss with him.  Sometimes the arms can be 
long and heavier and need two trucks.  This might be a handful of lights that require this.   
 
LM mentioned that Fitchburg had an opportunity to add a device to the light poles as the fixtures 
were being installed that would allow for a future broadband mesh network and we may want to 
consider this.  DB explained these devices are like repeaters.  
 
DB mentioned Karen Chapman sent some info on an Energy Efficiency Block Grant opportunity 
for us to look at. 
 
LM asked about the landfill solar farm idea which was a topic raised by Selectboard member 
Jeffreys.  It's up to Mr. Jeffreys to find out if solar on top of the landfill is feasible.   
 
DP noted that coming up, the school dept has a number of projects that they will need to 
undertake and that they may be eligible for green communities including a condenser boiler, the 
primary school is looking at mini splits- multiple.  Need to continually remind them that green 
communities is an opportunity when they do projects.  Sewer Dept and Facilities may have 
projects too.  
 
DP mentioned the Capital plan for  FY24-FY33 might be a source of projects.  LM asked if 
window replacement is an eligible green community use.  DP said he has not heard much 
savings results from the window improvements,  CH reported his company that works with utility 
companies is just starting to do windows, so this may mean the tide is starting to turn with 
respect to incentives for them.   
 
Next meeting, week between Christmas and NewYears if this still works for George.   
 
Motion to approve minutes from 10.19.22 - DP motion- LM second, approved unanimously.   
Motion to adjourn DP, second MS, approved unanimously.   
 