===PAGE 1===
Green Communities 3.6.23 
 
In attendance David Blatt, Chris Holden, Liz Murphy, Kim Duffy via zoom 
George Woodbury, consultant  
Matt Snyder and David Passios joined late, 7:20, 7:25. 
 
The meeting was called to order 7:09  
 
The meeting started with George discussing where we are today; the design is completed and 
the incentive paperwork has been forwarded to Unitil.  The incentive is expected to be about 
33K.  Total cost of materials is 65k plus whatever we spend on mast arms.  We are going to 
order 25 mast arms through Prism, at $135 per arm so another $3500 for those.  We will have 
good quality used arms available through Prism and if we don’t need all of the 25 mast arms 
they will buy them back.  
 
Heather indicated they need to do a formal bid process and that will take a little time as they 
have to advertise through the central register.  We thought we could do three quotes.  Instead it 
will be a month to two months to get bids in. George had provided bid documents to Heather.  
Heather did ask to have a convo with George about it. Dave asked if we will get more responses 
by putting it in the general registry, George said no, likely will get some we’ve never heard of.   
 
George reported his concern about getting low bidders who we’ve never heard of and we get 
stuck accepting their bids, then later need to change orders. David will try to have a convo with 
Heather tomorrow to speak to her about trying to not go the central register route.  All said yes, 
and suggested he listen to what her concerns are.  If procurement requires the published bid, 
let's get it moving as quickly as possible.  If possible, set up a meeting with George. 
 
 
David asked if George is ordering the lights in April.  George reported he is still waiting for the 
vendor to provide the price.  Prism, a collaborative of 27 communities, which George is a part 
of, operates on a standard of 12%.  They have significant buying power- David asked if we can 
buy from them. George wasn’t sure. 
 
David noted we have the contract with George completed.  George noted the audit work was 
paid recently. 
 
Next Steps. 
Matt asked if we can use funds saved to pay for extras.  David reported we didn’t bid on that.   
George was able to negotiate with until for greater saving on the lights.  George estimated the 
new bill will cost both 15K a year.  We can ask the town if they would fund an item in the general 
fund to pay for maintenance or upgrades as a result of the savings.   
 
  
 
===PAGE 2===
Kim asked what the used arms from Prism means?  They have good  arms after having 
replaced all mast arms in a particular town. Kim mentioned not creating added waste by 
replacing arms that don’t need to be replaced.  Also George will buy extra heads so we have 
extra parts.   
 
It was noted that the risk of the public bid is an unknown vendor being low bid.  We all support 
George working with the RFP to tighten up qualifications and specifications to ensure change 
orders are less likely to happen. Are we asking for the contractor to perform the maintenance 
service?  Prior we discussed that being a potential part of the contract. We should consider 
keeping it separate if we publicly bid.  George reported that one advantage of the public bid is 
we can accept a responsive bid even if we only receive one bid, but with some companies not 
doing this, George might be hard pressed to get three quotes for the labor.   
 
If we do everything right, and get this finished, what projects are next. If we can get this done by 
the end of the fiscal year, we can go for the October grant round.  Otherwise we have to wait 
until next year.  We have a new facilities manager in town that just started and the school lost 
their facilities manager, not sure if they’ve hired a new manager.  Hopefully we will have projects 
to apply for.  
 
Town Hall will eventually not be the town hall, so Turkey Hill could potentially expand or get 
replaced on TC Passios property and the Turkey Hill school becomes an admin building.  Plan 
B is to add onto Ritter, and leave Town Hall as a meeting place.   
 
We could work on the senior center- attic insulation.  Primary School and High School are 
relatively new.  Last round was Public Safety building and DPW.  Matt asked if we could use our 
funding to create green space when the old primary school is torn down.  We need the long 
term building use plan to decide our next projects.   
 
Motion to adjourn by Liz Murphy, second by Matt Snyder.  8:22PM 
 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Liz Murphy 
 
 
 
 
 