
Town of Lunenburg

3362461140017500

GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE
Lunenburg, MA 01462

David Blatt, Chair 
David Passios, Vice Chair
Kim Duffy, Clerk
Matt Snyder, Member
Chris Holden, Member

Meeting Minutes
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE
 Monday, February 3, 2025, 5:30 PM
Zoom Meeting

Attendance:
Members Present (Remote): David Blatt, David Passios, Matt Snyder, Kim Duffy, Chris Holden (joined at 5:39pm).

Call to Order: 5:33 pm

Agenda
	Discussion
	Review and approve any pending meeting minutes
	Meeting Minutes from Monday, December 9, 2024 7:30 PM approved by roll call vote: Kim Duffy, Matt Snyder, Dave Passios, David Blatt, Chris Holden (5-0 Aye).
	Public Comment
	None
	Municipal Energy Manager Grant
	New grant deadline: March 7, 2025 for a technical assistant award for $15k to help identify programs for next round of funding applications.

Categories: energy resiliency, HVAC (elementary school might be ok because would require major brick renovations), ASHRAE Level 2, energy savings performance contract, public water supply/wastewater treatment facilities, retro-commissioning, proposed zero-energy building. community-shared solar, solar PV and battery storage energy system on municipal/school/water district property.

David Blatt to reach out to Kelly from Green Communities for assistance.

	New Programs that could be available in 2025
	Will find out at the end of Feb/early March if we received any grant money for grant submitted in Fall 2024.

School improvements will be prioritized this year in town.

	Styrofoam program update
	Tyler Proteau provides update: Met with Lunenburg Hannaford management, 40ft locked container to be housed outside Hannaford (initial container cost: $1500-3000) will be placed for white shipping bulk styrofoam (each pickup cost: $500). TP to look into a grant to cover costs.

Box Funding:
-David Blatt: small cost to drop off to cover cost
-Matt Snyder: possibly a sponsor to cover the initial cost

Dropoff Options:
-Inside drop point (preferred option)
-Back of store in bin

Q&amp;A:
Matt Snyder: What is done to the styrofoam?
Tyler Proteau: Melted and recycled into plastics for raw material
David Passios: Could Matt (Recycler) attend a meeting to discuss?
Tyler Proteau: Maybe
David Passios: Reach out to recycling contacts in town for grant help if needed.
Matt Snyder: Are the other sites that have this implemented?
Tyler Proteau: No, but would have to check

Need:
-What type and size bags would be provided to put the styrofoam in? Would want to keep cost down/lower than normal trash
-Flyer for public info for what is allowed in container: white, clean styrofoam (no dirty, no labels, tape, colored foam, or peanuts)

	Committee Make-Up
	Request to Select Board to change 2 Associate members to 2 Alternate members (to allow for quorum and voting if quorum is not met with regular members)

Dave Passios: Motions to allow David Blatt to Request to Select Board to change 2 Associate members to 2 Alternate members (to allow for quorum and voting if quorum is not met with regular members). 
Roll call vote: Kim Duffy, Matt Snyder, Dave Passios, David Blatt, Chris Holden (5-0 Aye).

	Timeline for Next Meeting
	March 3, 2025 @ 6pm via Zoom.

	
Meeting Adjourned: David Passios left meeting remotely at 6:31pm. Matt Snyder motioned to adjourn, Chris Holden seconded motion. Vote by roll-call: Kim Duffy, Matt Snyder, Chris Holder, David Blatt (4-0 Aye). Meeting adjourned at 6:36pm.












