===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
 
 
David Blatt, Chair  
David Passios, Vice Chair 
Kim Duffy, Clerk 
Matt Snyder, Member 
Chris Holden, Member 
 
Meeting Minutes 
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE 
 Monday, June 2, 2025, 7:00 PM 
Zoom Meeting 
 
Attendance: 
Members Present (Remote): David Blatt, Kim Duffy, Chris Holden, Dave Passios 
Call to Order: 7:02 pm 
 
Agenda Discussion 
Review and approve any 
pending meeting minutes 
Meeting Minutes from April 7, 2025 will be reviewed prior to next meeting for 
approval. 
Public Comment None 
Energy Audit for Turkey 
Hill Update 
Funding approved for Lunenburg Primary School; waiting for school to end to 
install HVAC upgrades. 
 
Turkey Hill is next priority. Weatherization needed (single pane windows, etc.) 
Gas is National Grid; gas-powered system currently. National Grid & Schools 
(Chris Stevens, School Facilities Director) will need to connect. Administration 
will move out of TC Passios and move to Turkey Hill. Chris Ruth (Facilities 
Director) does not have any other projects currently; mentioned audit for Public 
Safety Building. 
 
Styrofoam program update No update 
 
Committee Make-Up 3 new members possible; Dave Blatt will attend Select Board meeting to discuss 
new members. 
 
Alternate vs associate members. Currently associate member spots but would like 
to change them to alternates. Need Select Board approvals. 
 
Need to verify committee term expirations. Per Lunenburg town website: “The 
Committee shall be composed of 5 regular members serving three-year terms 
appointed by the Select Board and two associate members. Two members shall 
initially be appointed to a three-year term, two members shall initially be 
appointed to a two-year term, and one member shall initially be appointed to a 
one-year term. After the initial term, all regular members shall serve a three-year 
term. The associate members shall be appointed to a three-year term.” 
Timeline for Next Meeting July 7, 2025 via Zoom 
 
Meeting Adjourned: Dave Passios made a motion to adjourn the meeting; Chris Holden seconded. Approved by 
roll call vote to adjourn. Meeting adjourned at 7:36pm. 