===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
 
 
David Blatt, Chair  
David Passios, Vice Chair 
Kim Duffy, Clerk 
Matt Snyder, Member 
Chris Holden, Member 
 
Meeting Minutes 
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE 
 Monday, April 7, 2025, 7:00 PM 
Zoom Meeting 
 
Attendance: 
Members Present (Remote): David Blatt, Kim Duffy, Chris Holden, Matt Snyder, Dave Passios 
 
Other Attendees:  
Town: Kate Burnham (Lunenburg School Superintendent), Susan Gilson (Lunenburg School 
Director of Administration and Finance), Chris Stevens (Lunenburg Facilities Manager) 
 
Utility: Matt O’Keefe (Unitil) and Ilsa McIntyre (Mass Save – Heat Pump Support Team Program 
Manager), Alex Briggs (Heat Pump Support Team Specialist), Justin Bates (Heat Pump Support 
Team) 
 
Call to Order: 7:01 pm 
 
Agenda Discussion 
Review and approve any 
pending meeting minutes 
Matt Snyder made a motion to approve the minutes from the following meeting: 
March 3, 2025. David Blatt seconded. Approved by roll call vote. 
Public Comment None 
Heat Pump Consultation 
Services 
Matt O’Keefe (Unitil) and Ilsa McIntyre (Mass Save – Heat Pump Support Team 
Program Manager), Alex Briggs (Heat Pump Support Team Specialist), Justin 
Bates (Heat Pump Support Team) 
 
Dave Blatt: Lunenburg needs to complete the Energy Audit for Turkey Hill 
Elementary School (129 Northfield Road) and Public Safety Building (655 
Massachusetts Avenue) to continue with weatherization and HVAC upgrades. 
 
Ilsa McIntyre: Explains MassSave Energy Consultation (HVAC/heat pumps, 
weatherization) for municipal buildings. 
 
Alex Briggs: Presents Consultation Report – copy will be provided. Suggest 
geothermal might be better for Turkey Hill vs mini-splits. Temperature 
imbalances could be remediated by weatherization. Asks about currently energy 
pull/heat load. 
Dave Blatt: 106,000 kW 
 
Chris Holden: Asks about a comparative analysis of the various system types 
(mini-splits/air source heat pumps, variable refrigerant heat pumps, geothermal 
heat pumps) 
 
===PAGE 2===
Dave Blatt requests timelines. Matt O’Keefe and Ilsa McIntyre ask about town 
processes for approvals. Dave Passios describes capital planning process – Town 
Manager coordinates projects and funding. Matt O’Keefe describes the fastest 
turnaround would be estimates by August, ready for October grant cycle, next 
year for project initiation. Weatherization is not required for Mass Save funding, 
but is required for Green Communities Competitive Grants. 
 
Dave Blatt asks what next steps are. Ilsa McIntyre can contact National Grid to 
get energy assessment, can help find a contractor to get quotes (3 recommended), 
then determination of which system is best. Dave Blatt questions contractor 
selection prior to system assessment and weatherization determination. Ilsa 
McIntyre says National Grid will determine weatherization improvement  during 
energy assessment. Weatherization improvements could impact the system 
selection/efficacy and 70% covered by Utility. 
 
Styrofoam program update No update – grant search still in progress. 
 
School HVAC Upgrade 
Project and Grant 
Green Communities Competitive Grant fully approved for 2025. 
 
Kate Burnham: Held emergency meeting with School Committee to vote to 
amend capital planning projects to utilize funds for Lunenburg Primary School 
HVAC improvements (approved). Town Meeting will also need to approve 
funds. Costs for projects might come in higher than approved funds. 
 
Dave Passios asks about vendor commitment to quote and what if the 
grant/approved funds fall short. Kate Burnham explains additional funds are 
limited and vendor is reluctant to lock-in cost for project. Project would need to 
be completed prior to late August. 
 
Dave Blatt asks about solar panels on Turkey Hill. Kate Burnham says the solar 
company went bankrupt and no one currently owns the panels or knows if they 
are properly net metering. Need to re-allocate solar credits to other buildings. 
Dave Passios suggests that Chris Stevens connects with George Woodbury from 
LightSmart Energy Consulting. If the new quote exceeds maximum budget 
(170k), committee might need to re-consider project and withdraw so other grants 
can be applied for. Grant writing services was returned to budget by Town 
Manager. 
 
Committee Make-Up Alternate vs associate members. Currently associate member spots but would like 
to change them to alternates. Need Select Board approvals. 
Timeline for Next Meeting May 5, 2025 via Zoom 
 
Meeting Adjourned: Matt Snyder made a motion to adjourn the meeting; Dave Passios seconded. Approved by roll 
call vote to adjourn. Meeting adjourned at 8:31pm. 
 