===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
7:30 PM Thursday March 21, 2019 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Present: M. Allison, A. Snow, R. Stober, J. Marzuca 
Guests: D. Guerin, Director of the Science Department at LHS 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:32pm.   
R. Stober moved to accept the minutes of December 20, 2018, A. Snow 2nd, J. Marzuca 
abstained, all aye. 
 
D. Guerin gave a description of what she does at the school, specifically in the greenhouse.  
AgCom had paid $300 two years ago for the cost of bussing students to the Boston Flower 
Show.  A. Snow moved we pay $300 for bussing this year, R. Stober 2nd, all aye.   We shared 
past discussions by the commission about the new greenhouse.  S. Harp was not present and 
there was no web page presentation.  M. Allison began LCFM discussion by stating he received 
an email from H. Bowen today informing of her resignation as market manager, effective 
immediately.  A. Snow stated that Acton has a producer only market and distributed 2 versions 
of suggested addition to the LCFM rules about resale of goods and farm visits.  The members 
agreed to include the version allowing up to 25% resale and required farm visits.  A. Snow 
moved, R. Stober 2nd to approve and include version #2 in the updated LCFM application/rules, 
all aye.  A. Snow announced that Harvard will not be holding a farmers market this year.  He 
also reported on discussions with Lunenburg DPW and MDOT about placement of a banner 
over 2A.  It is permissible following certain criteria.  Discussion followed about reaching out to 
other Town groups to gauge interest and financial support for such undertaking.  A. Snow also 
mentioned a discussion with DPW and their approval to place market signs at existing ‘Right To 
Farm’ (RTF) signs entering Lunenburg.  M. Allison announced the next meeting of the Grange is 
April 5, 2019 where we will be receiving our new charter.  He also reported on the determination 
by Town Manager and Counsel that the bag ban will not apply to the LCFM as long as it 
operated outside.   
 
A. Snow moved to adjourn, R. Stober second, adjourned at 9:23pm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Arthur Snow, Vice-Chair  
Ryan Stober, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
-VACANCY-, Member 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 