===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
February 20, 2020 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Present: M. Allison, R. Stober, G. Burns, J. Marzuca, M. Fontaine, Y. Fusaro,  
   M. Holman, K. McClellan 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:03pm.   
 
General discussion began welcoming Maryrae Holman and Kira McClellan, and discussion of 
their interests and involvement with agriculture. 
 
R. Stober corrected a spelling error in the minutes of September 19, 2019 and moved to accept 
the minutes of Sept as revised, Oct and Nov as presented.  G. Burns 2 
nd , all aye 
 
Mention was made of interested party for Economic Development Committee and warrant 
articles were discussed by mention only. 
 
The market managers presented the commission with proposed additions and revisions to the 
2020 market rules and application as previously discussed.  The opening day was moved up to 
the last Sunday in May, the time and fees remained the same.  Discussion included pros and 
cons of starting earlier.  G. Burns moved we accept the 2020 LCFM rules and regs.  G. Burns 
2
nd , all aye. 
 
There was a group discussion on all the ongoing agenda items for the benefit of potential new 
volunteers.  Discussion moved to what was involved, the difference between member and 
alternate, and how one goes about the application and appointment process.  Each decided to 
apply.  R. Stober moved that Maryrae Holman be recommended for appointment as a member.  
G. Burns 2 
nd , all aye.  G. Burns moved that Kira McClellan be recommended for appointment as 
alternate.  J. Marzuca 2 nd , all aye. 
 
Next meeting set for March 19. 
 
R. Stober moved to adjourn, J. Marzuca 2nd, adjourned at 8:39pm. 
 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Ryan Stober, Vice-Chair  
Greg Burns, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
-VACANCY, Member 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 