===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
September 17, 2020 
Zoom Meeting 
 
Present: M. Allison, R. Stober, J. Marzuca, M. Holman, K. McClellan 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:05pm.   
 
Public Comment/Open Discussion: none 
 
Reorganization: R, Stober nominated M. Allison for chair, J. Marzuca 2nd.  Roll call, all aye. 
J. Marzuca nominated R. Stober for vice-chair, M. Holman 2nd.  Roll call, all aye. 
R. Stober nominated J. Marzuca for clerk, M. Holman 2nd.  Roll call, all aye. 
 
-Farmers Market report:  M. Allison, official bathroom keeper, reported market is going very well.  
There were 19 vendors for last 3 weeks.   
-Economic Development Comm. appointment was discussed.  R. Stober asked if the Select 
Board had even mentioned it.  M. Allison responded not to his knowledge. 
-BrightFarms application was discussed.  Discussion was had on the potential impact to local 
farmers.   
-Letter to town officials, RE: farm complaints.  M. Holmans draft was reviewed and discussion 
had on who to send it to.  R. Stober moved to approve the letter, J. Marzuca 2nd.  Roll call, all 
aye. 
-Draft a flyer:  M. Holman suggested single sheet, tri-fold with map of farms on one side.   
-Farm inspections: Discussion included protocol for farm/ barn inspections, backyard chickens 
and coops, farm/animal complaints, animal control officer (ACO), livestock vs. pets, field driver 
and pound keeper appointments. 
-Lanni Orchard request for infrastructure:  Jerry Lanni had requested sewer extension from 
Sewer Commission, Select Board, Planning Board, and had reached out to AgCom for any 
assistance.  Sewer service would significantly improve the ability for commercial agriculture on 
the 70 acres in Agricultural Preservation Restriction (APR) 
-Public market:  Review of ability to have year round market space. 
-Bylaw references to farm size:  Review of 5ac vs. 2ac farm size requirement. 
-AgCom holding land:  Review of other commissions, discussion of what would be needed, and 
mention of current bid process of Town owned Ag fields. 
-Farm map:  Discussion on types of farms shown on map vs. farm listing. 
 
Next meeting set for October 15, 2020. 
 
R, Stober moved to adjourn, J. Marzuca 2nd.  Roll call, all aye.  Adjourned at 8:21pm. 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Ryan Stober, Vice-Chair  
Greg Burns, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
Maryrae Holman, Member 
Kira McClellan, Alternate 
Stephanie Schofield, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 