===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
February 17, 2022 
Zoom Meeting 
 
Present: M. Allison, R. Stober, K. McClellan, M. Fontaine, Thomas Jordan, Sharon Jordan 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:07pm.   
 
General discussion: K. McClellan gave an update on the avian flu. 
 
M. Fontaine updated the commission on the upcoming market.  Due to time constraints the 
members present felt it appropriate to allow the market managers to publish an updated digital 
application that we can finalize and approve at our next meeting.   
 
The chair announced receipt of a new talent bank form and introduced Thomas Jordan.  He and 
his wife keep horses at 77 Burrage Street, loves the rural nature and wants to give back to the 
Town.   
 
Discussion on expanding membership from 5 to 7 members was focused on the increase from 3 
to 4 members for a quorum.  As numerous meetings recently had not been held due to not 
having quorum, members felt we should move the issue to old business.   
 
Discussion on existing regulations focused on the letter prepared by the commission last year 
asking for clarification.  The chair emailed the letter May 2021 to the Building Commissioner, 
Animal Control officer, Administrator for the BOS and Town Manager, chair of the BOS, the 
Town Manager, Administrator for the BOH, chair of the BOH and the Police Chief.  No response 
has been received to date.   
 
M. Fontaine rejoined us with new information on the market.  The proposed changes were much 
more involved than initially reported.  Members present requested the management team poll 
vendors on the changes and report back at our next meeting. 
 
Sharon Jordan, 77 Burrage Street, asked about the status of the Open Space Plan and farms, 
specifically, what is a farm?  M. Allison gave his understanding of the activity of farming, which 
is protected by right-to-farm, versus a parcel of land called a farm enrolled in chapter 61. 
 
Next meeting set for March 17, 2022. 
 
R. Stober moved to adjourn, K. McClellen 2nd.  Rollcall, all aye.  Adjourned at 8:01pm. 
 
 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Ryan Stober, Vice-Chair  
Greg Burns, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
Maryrae Holman, Member 
Kira McClellan, Alternate 
Stephanie Schofield, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 