===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair  
Maryrae Holman, Vice-Chair 
Jennifer Duffy, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
Vacancy, Member 
Kira McClellan, Alternate  
Vacancy, Alternate 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
February 16, 2023 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
 
Agricultural Commission Members and Attendance 
Function Name Attendant  
Chair Matthew Allison ✔ 
Vice-Chair Maryrae Holman ✔ 
Clerk Jennifer Duffy  ✔ 
Member Jorge Marzuca ✔ 
Member Vacancy   
Alternate Kira McClellan   
Alternate Vacancy   
Market Manager Mike Fontaine ✔ 
Public Ryan Boudreau ✔ 
  
Agenda: 
No. Topic Notes 
1 Call to Order Meeting Commencement Time: 7:05pm  
2 Public Comment/Open Discussion Low Places Ranch obtained license to sell chicks. Will be 
offering chicks this spring 
3 Farm complaints A. Boudreau has a neighbor who has 
expressed displeasure with a rooster's 
crowing. Located in district A.  
4 Review/Approve Minutes Jen made a motion to approve the minutes from the 
following meetings: Jan 19, 2023  
Maryrae seconded 
Commission unanimously approved 
5 Farmers market update -Seasonal Facebook Survey preferred Sundays 10am-1pm  
Maryrae and Jen to start contacting vendors 
===PAGE 2===
Farmers' Market Application is complete and ready for 
vendors  
6 New Business:   
  Town Caucus and Town meeting warrant Discussion to add to goals aligning town and state farm 
acreage requirements 
  Resignations and vacancies One member vacancy must be filled by someone who is 
involved in agriculture as a primary source of income. One 
alternate vacancy does not require primary involvement in 
agriculture. 
  Review tote bag design Cotton bags with print screening to be decided at future 
meeting 
  Outreach for market manager(s) and/or 
farm vendors 
Ask Select Board to advertise openings for market 
managers 
7 Unfinished Business:   
  Review and approve 2023 AgCom goals Jen made a motion to approve the agricultural commission 
goals presented on Jan 19, 2023  
Maryrae seconded 
Commission unanimously approved 
  
Agricultural Commission 2023 Goals: 
1.        Hold 10 meetings of the agricultural commission 
during the 2023 calendar year 
2.        Review and approve all meeting minutes by the end 
of the following meeting 
3.        Present to the Select Board and drive a town meeting 
article to align town farm acreage requirements with the 
state farm acreage requirements 
4.        Raise awareness for Lunenburg agriculture on 
available grants, eligibility, and how to apply 
5.        Sign up 10 vendors Lunenburg Farmers’ Market  
6.        Support community members pursuit of agriculture 
7.        Mediate, advocate, educate, and/or negotiate farming 
issues  
  Lufa Farms, New interest in Brightfarm 
permit/location 
No new information 
  AgCom holding land No new information 
  Discussion on existing regulations for 
farms and farming in Lunenburg 
No new information 
  Community gardens No new information 
  Farm inspections No new information 
  Hats, t-shirts, bags, marketing for AgCom 
& market 
No new information 
  Bylaw references to farm size –Town 
meeting article 
No new information 
  Map of Lunenburg Farms No new information 
8 Committee reports: Economic 
Development Comm., Planning Board, 
Building reuse 
No new information 
===PAGE 3===
9 Public Comment/Open Discussion No public comment 
10 Set Next Meeting Date Maryrae made a motion to move the next meeting to 
Wednesday, March 15th  
Jen seconded 
Commission unanimously approved 
March 22, 2023 7:00pm 
11 Adjourn Meeting Adjournment Time: Jen Motion to adjourn; Jorge 
seconds. Commission unanimously approved 9:19pm 
  
 