===PAGE 1===
Minutes of  9/18/23-  Master Plan Committee Inaugural Meeting
Attendee s- Adam Burney (Land Use Director),  Evan Watters (Finance Com.), Karin 
Menard (Parks), Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging), Tim Willsmer (Planning Board), 
Dick Mailloux ( Trustees of Library), Lou Franco (Select Board), Joeci Gilcrest (Economic
Development ), Jerry Reid  (resident), Rami el Samahy ( OverUnder Consultant), and 
Foteini Boul iari (RKG Consultant)
COMMITTEE ORGANIZ ATION -
Nominations for Chair – Joeci  Gilchrest volunteered and was  nominated for Chair. 
There was a s econd  and a  roll call vote which was unanimous .
Nominations for Vice-Chair – Tim W illsmer volunteered and was  nominated for Chair. 
There was a s econd  and a  roll call vote which was unanimous .
OVERVIEW OF MASTER PLAN PROGRESS  – Adam s ta ted  the Master Plan is 
governed by general laws and is ideally reviewed every 10 years. The p rocess takes 2 
years to complete so the review could re alistically be done e very 15- 20 years. The 
Master Plan is a living document  which set s  lofty goals and objections to achieve a 
vision  for the town. They have r etained OverUnder Associates and R KG  as consultants 
to lead the process.  R ami  (OverUnder)  introduced his company and d escribe d  how the 
plan is put together . They will l ook at the town , make recommendations  and l ay out a 
suggested roadmap. The p lanning process consists of discovery, recommendations  and
the report. The  process  b egan in April and they are still in the discovery phrase. They 
w ant to have more community engagement  by attending events such as the Farmer ’s 
Market s  and Homecoming . A website called planlunenburg.com  is being developed and 
will serve as a clearing house for information  about the Survey and the next public 
meeting in late October /early November . They requeste d to have a steering committee 
comprised of town representative s to test their ideas. Adam stated the steering 
committee is the champion of the p lan  and the next public meeting will  show some of 
things they have documented about Lunenburg.  Rami added they will develop  a  
community engagement plan and existing conditions report. He w ant s  to get discussions
going  through various exercises to work on g oals and a vision  for the town .
DISCUSSION OF MEETING SCHEDULE  – The committee discussed options for a 
meeting schedule and Jo eci  suggested  once a month in the evening. The consensus 
was to meet the 1 st  Thursday of the month  at 6pm.  The group d iscuss ed t iming for the 
next p ublic meeting . Kar in s uggest ed advertising the meeting at Homecoming and 
hold ing it so on  after .
COMMITTEE COMMENT  -  Dick noted the  library went through a S trategic P lan , 
look ing  at the community as a whole and where the library board should be headed. The
Plan is on the library website and he is interest ed  to see what will come out of it.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Tony Sc ulimbre ne  (Architectu ral Prese rvation District C om .) 
stated he is  interested , as an engineer,  in the plan  and had some q uestions . He  asked 
where the Community Engagement Plan is located and Rami  replied they have 
discussed it with P lanning B oard but has not been posted yet. The website will be u p 
and running  in 2 weeks.  Tony asked if the survey process will be active or passive  and 
Rami replied  there will be active recruitment at many events. Tony inquired  why  there is 
a legislative require ment for a Master Plan every 10 years but it is not  being met by 
===PAGE 2===
communities. Adam replied it is an unfunded mandate and the s tate does not enforce it. 
R ami added that more funding has been released recently to encourage master 
planning. Also it is important for Lunenburg to  do a plan because it is moving from a 
rural community to something else. They need to f igure out collective values  and  identify
initiatives to move the community forward. Tony also asked h ow the steering committee 
was formed and Adam replied the P lanning B oard put out a charge and solicited 
volunteers from the committees listed. There will be 6 A t- L arge members , with 2  
appointed and 15 committee members .
Motion  made and seconded to adjourn at 6 :58pm .
A  Roll Call Vote was taken and was un animous . 
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk