===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
       
Kim Duffy, Chair             David Niose (Library Trustee) 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair                          Glenn Mcleod (Select Board) 
Gerald Reid, Clerk       Emily Young (School Committee) 
Timothy Willsmer (Planning Board)      Sondria Harp (At Large) 
Deb Lincoln (Council on Aging)                            Teddy Doucette (Conservation Commission) 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
Wednesday, September 10, 2025  ∙  6:00 PM 
Ritter Building, Lower Level – 960 Massachusetts Ave, Lunenburg, MA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is 
being recorded and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, 
please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and 
remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion" to create 
audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI 
Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby notified that 
this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of 
the meeting. This meeting will be held remotely via the Zoom platform. Members of the public are 
welcome to attend this meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or 
participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or 
terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public 
meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81690819364?pwd=k8OPDdJbLs9OPZdVJndAWFtiA3THur.1 
or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (877)-853-5257 and enter Webinar ID: 816 9081 9364. If 
you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No 
participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. The 
agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by 
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Public Comment 
3. Committee Comment 
4. Vacant Seats (Zoning Board of Appeals, Member At Large) 
5. Meeting Minutes Review/Approvals 
a. July 23, 2025 
b. August 13, 2025 
c. August 27, 2025 
6. Review any new committee’s feedback on recommendation draft 
7. Next steps of Master Plan – info session, special town meeting 
8. Public Comment 
9. Committee Comment 
10. Adjournment 
