===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission 
Meeting Minutes, January 19, 2016 
Approved: 2-9-16 
Richard McGrath- Chair 
Jim LaVeck- Vice Chair 
Cullen Dwyer- Recording Clerk 
 
7:10 Meeting called to order with all members present. 
 
Mr. Dwyer was not able to print out the minutes from the previous meeting, so approval of 
minutes was forestalled until next meeting. 
Members discussed ideas generated from the APD site-visit on 1-16-16.  Mr. Dwyer presented 
notes on his own reflections from the site visit, which the board agreed would be helpful moving 
forward. (See supporting document “Reflections from Site Visit, 1-16-16”) 
The board recognized that many repairs and improvements that would effect the overall 
appearance of the building would not require a building permit, and therefore would fall under 
exemption 6b of the bylaw.  Mr McGrath resolved to learn what needs or does not need a 
building permit. 
The board agreed that it should consider specific topics before drafting design design guidelines 
for the APD, including: 
Roofs: shingles and materials, dormers and roof additions, skylights, solar panels, windmills, 
vents, heat traces, chimneys, roof pitch, antennas and communication improvements, weather 
vanes, cupolas. 
Facades and sides visible from public way: siding (clapboards, aluminum, vinyl, brick and 
stucco), windows, doors, decks, porches, balconies, steps, railings, exterior lighting, patios, 
walkways, trim, ballisters, foundations. 
 
For Design Guidelines regarding signs, the board must first review the Village District Bylaw to 
see what guidance that document offers. 
 
Design guidelines will be written to cover the majority of cases.  The APDC will retain the right to 
make exceptions to preserve the unique historical character of a building. 
 
The appeals process described in section 13 of the bylaw is still unclear to the board, and 
requires further research. 
 
The board will meet again at 7PM in the Ritter Building on 2-9-16 
 
8:30PM Meeting Adjourned.  
Respectfully submitted, 
Cullen Dwyer, Recording Clerk  