===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission 
 
Chair: Richard McGrath 
Vice Chair: Jim LaVeck 
Clerk: Cullen Dwyer 
Member: Brian Corcoran 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, March 8th, 2016 
 
Richard McGrath opened the meeting and called the board to order at 7:08PM 
 
The Committee welcomed new member Brian Corcoran 
 
Minutes from the meeting on 1-4-16 were voted on and approved 
 
Richard McGrath reported on his visit to the building inspector, who told him that all work 
requires a building permit other than repairs, fences under six feet tall, and sheds/play-
structures of less than 200 square feet. 
 
Jim LaVeck suggested that the APDC build its own website, explaining the powers and duties of 
the APDC. 
 
The board discussed the guidelines from the Ipswich APDC.  They provide a valuable 
framework.  The Lunenburg APDC will need to strengthen section IV, to give specific treatment 
of topics like roofs, sheathing, foundations etc.  It will need to give specific recommendations, 
tell property owners what to avoid, and explain what the APDC forbids.  The Ipswich APDC 
guidelines contain photographs and examples of important historic buildings.  A similar review 
was deemed valuable for the Lunenburg guidelines.  To that end, Richard McGrath will contact 
the assessor’s office for existing information and photographs, and recover the existing 
materials gathered for Lunenburg’s Survey of Historical and Architectural Resources (work in 
progress). 
 
The board then turned to the Lunenburg APDC bylaw and discussed the details of the 
application process: what forms were needed, when and how property owners would be 
contacted, time frames, and how internal and official documents would be stored and recorded. 
 
Using the Ipswich guidelines as a model, the board members will each individually draught 
Lunenburg’s guidelines for sections I and II, and compare draughts at the next meeting. 
 
Next meeting set for 3-29-16 
 
Adjourned, 8:40PM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Cullen Dwyer, Recording Clerk, Lunenburg APDC 