===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission 
 
Chair: Richard McGrath 
Vice Chair: Jim LaVeck 
Clerk: Cullen Dwyer 
Member: Brian Corcoran 
Member: Matthew Kehrer 
 
Meeting Minutes: Tuesday May 24th, 2016 
 
Call to Order: 
Chairman McGrath opened the meeting at 7:04 PM 
 
Review of Minutes: 
Minutes from the meeting on 4-26-16 were reviewed.  McGrath made a motion to approve the 
minutes as read, and LaVeck seconded the motion.  The board voted approval. 
 
The unapproved minutes from the meeting on 3-29-16 were not printed out and McGrath tabled 
their approval until the next meeting. 
 
Public Comment: 
None. 
 
New Business: 
McGrath informed the board that, though it is still not entirely prepared, the APD bylaw is now 
operational.  The APDC will begin accepting applications for Certificates to Alter.  Richard will 
prepare forms for applications to be reviewed and approved before the next meeting. 
 
Old Business: 
The board reviewed the latest draught of the flow chart prepared by Corcoran.  This involved a 
close reading of sections 7 and 8 of the bylaw, much discussion and interpretation of how the 
wording in the bylaw would be codified in regular procedure. 
It was recognized that stone walls were specifically protected in the bylaw, but that demolition of 
a stone wall would probably not require a building permit, and would therefore be exempted 
from APDC oversight.  The board recognized that special procedures would be needed to deal 
with these situations. 
 
The board reviewed design guidelines contributed by members in fulfillment of section 9 of the 
bylaw.  Hard copies were distributed covering topics of roofs, cellars and foundations, temporary 
buildings, and alternate versions of sections 1 and 2 of the guidelines.  The board agreed to 
read these over and discuss them at the next meeting. 
 
Motion to adjourn: LaVeck, second: Corcoran, unanimous vote to adjourn at  8:50 PM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Cullen Dwyer, recording clerk 