===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
Richard McGrath- Chair 
Jim LaVeck- Vice Chair 
Cullen Dwyer- Recording Clerk 
Meeting Minutes, January 4
th , 2016 
7:15PM- meeting called to order with all three members present.  Also present was Selectman Bob 
Ebersol to assist the Commission at its first meeting. 
Officers were elected by unanimous vote: 
 Richard McGrath- Chair 
Jim LaVeck- Vice Chair  
Cullen Dwyer- Recording Clerk  
Certain errata were noticed in the town bylaw as ratified: 
1)  The bylaw states that the APD consists land within the Lunenburg Village District or 
within the Lunenburg Historical District (or both).  The map attached to the bylaw 
shows the APD as only the Historic District.  Mr. Ebersol commented that the map 
currently attached to the bylaw stands and defines the district.  Land Use Director 
Adam Burney is currently working to draw a corrected map.  
2)  There is certain confusion in the wording of the bylaw as to how many members the 
APDC shall have: five or six.  
3)  In section 8, one passage reads “thirty(45) days”.  The passage should read “forty-
five(45) days”. 
The bylaw will need to be amended to correct these mistakes at the Town Meeting in May 2016. 
There was also discussion regarding the APDC having less than its proposed number of members.  Mr. 
Ebersol commented that the BoS was concerned that having too many residents of the APD on the APDC 
might lend an anti-development bias to the board.  At present the BoS has no viable additional 
candidates for the APDC. 
Since “Demolition by Neglect” is forbidden by the bylaw, there was some discussion of how we would 
enforce this rule, and whether the intentions of the violator might be a factor in the enforcement.  No 
conclusions were reached. 
The Commission recognized its obligation to provide design guidelines for alterations of existing 
contributing properties in the APD.  These must be brought before public hearing and accepted by the 
BoS within 180 days of this meeting.  McGrath agreed to contact Mass Historic to obtain an example of 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
historic design guidelines.  LaVeck agreed to contact the Town of Ipswich and research other towns with 
historic preservation bylaws to see if he could find a set of guidelines to serve as our model. 
The Commission also resolved to meet on Saturday the 16 th  at 8AM for a site visit of the APD, to help the 
APDC formulate design guidelines.  Mr. Ebersol recommended that the APDC inform the police of its 
intentions and to carry identification. 
Mr. Ebersol also suggested that all members acquire and use Town of Lunenburg email addresses for all 
APDC-related business. 
The APDC agreed to have its next meeting on Jan 19 
th , 2016 at the Ritter Building.  McGrath agreed to 
contact the police about the site visit, and to contact the Town Clerk to post the next meeting. 
8:30PM Meeting Adjourned.  
 
 