===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INCON
MAR 2 0 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Meeting Minutes
Tuesday February 13th, 2017
Ritter Building
Call to Order: At 7:00PM
Present: Chairman McGrath, Corcoran, LaVeck and Dwyer
Administrative Review: Gary Burton appeared to discuss alterations to his property at 944 Massachusetts Ave: the Franklin S.
rancis house. The commission encouraged him to preserve certain interior features as well as existing windows, and explaine
hat replacement windows would need to be presented and reviewed on the application for a CTA. The applicant desires exterio
alterations in keeping with the architectural style of the house that pose no problems of compliance with the APD bylaw.
Communications: Chairman McGrath received notice from the office of the Attorney General regarding Mr. Rogers' complaint.
Since he did not follow up on the matter, the Attorney General assumed the matter settled and closed the case.
McGrath also contacted Mr. Skelly at Mass Historic regarding the Brooks house and the primary school. These buildings are in
danger of being demolished. The town manager has held recent workshops to solicit public input on how the downtown should
be managed, including the fate of town-owned properties. Many have said that the cost of bringing these buildings up to code is
prohibitive, and that they should be torn down. McGrath hoped to learn a remedy or counter-argument to this point.
Old Business: McGrath met with Public Works director Rodriquenz regarding signage for the APD. Rodriquenz said that he
might provide installation for free, advised on the cost of materials and best locations. McGrath will need to approach the BoS
and town manager to request funding, and will require permission from the state for signs on route 2A. Dwyer suggested that the
signs be mounted on the same posts as the historic district signs.
New Business: LaVeck and Corcoran expressed concern regarding the condition of the house at 53 Lancaster on the corner of
Whiting. The property may be in the process of demolition by neglect, and it therefore falls upon the APDC to address the mat-
ter. McGrath motioned to investigate, LaVeck seconded and the motion carried unanimously. After discussion on the best way to
handle the situation, it was decided that Dwyer would begin the process by sending a letter to the owner asking to inspect the
Concern was raised regarding a possible conflict of the APD bylaw with another law encouraging green energy. The commission
debated the APD's rights and obligations to regulate solar panels on or around contributing properties. McGrath will ask building
inspector Andrew Hudson for clarification on the law.
===PAGE 2===

