===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission 
 
Chair: Richard McGrath 
Vice Chair: Jim LaVeck 
Clerk: Cullen Dwyer 
Member: Brian Corcoran 
Member: Matthew Kherer 
 
Meeting Minutes: Tuesday February 21st, 2017 
 
 
meeting open and called to order at 7:02 with LaVeck, Corcoran and Dwyer present. 
 
Minutes from January were not reviewed, since only two members were present who were at 
that meeting. 
 
Amory Phelps was present with Jeff Smart of J.Smart Contracting, 
(Jsmartcontracting@gmail.com (978)771-1934) and presented plans to restore the home of 
Amory Phelps at 123 Leominster Rd after it had been struck by a reckless driver.  Though the 
process for obtaining a Certificate to Alter was still not in place, the building inspector desired 
the approval of the APDC.  Mr. Smart presented plans to restore the house using antique and 
historically appropriate materials and methods.  The Commission voted to approve the plans, 
and signed the building permit. 
 
Further discussion ensued regarding the Guidelines: 
 
LaVeck questioned the concept of Historic Value based on “known history associated with the 
property”, and asked by what authority it would be invoked.  Members present agreed that the 
known history of a property would remain a valid basis for Historic Value.  This principle would 
mostly be invoked by the APDC as justification for the importance of the preservation of a 
property.  The APDC would need to support their argument by referencing authorities such as 
the Lunenburg Historic Commission, Massachusetts Historic Commission, the Lunenburg 
Historic Society, and publications such as “the History of the Turkey Hills” 
 
LaVeck also felt the guidelines required greater clarity on the filing fee for a Certificate to Alter.  
Shall there be a separate fee for the APDC?  Dwyer agreed to discuss this with Land use 
Director Adam Burney, and the Commission would revisit the question at our next meeting when 
the chair was present. 
 
After some discussion, members present decided that our guidelines should place emphasis on 
alterations to contributing properties that are visible from the public right-of-way.  This decision 
has basis in both the APD bylaw and the way that it was presented at town meeting when it was 
adopted.  Therefore this concept shall be retained in the guidelines as part of the description of 
Historic Value. 
 
Members present agreed that there shall be three main sections of the guidelines: 
 
Section 1: Introduction and explanation of the APD’s purpose. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Section 2: The rules explaining what is or is not permitted. 
Section 3: A description of the application process. 
 
In the latest version of the guideline, the section of temporary building had been abbreviated to 
omit the rules on size and time limits, which are exactly the parameters that the bylaw requires 
the rules and guidelines to spell out.  Members present agreed to write new rules for exempt 
status of temporary buildings based on size and duration, as well as position and other factors.  
Questions were raised regarding the inclusion of above ground swimming pools and play 
structures as temporary buildings, but the resolution was tabled until the chair was present. 
 
LaVeck agreed to re-type and re-format the Guidelines in its current state, accepting changes. 
 
Next Meeting: March 21st, 2017. 
 
Adjourned: 8:36 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Cullen Dwyer, recording clerk 