===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
18 INCORP
APR JU 2U10
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Meeting Minutes
Tuesday March 20th, 2018
Ritter Building
Call to Order: At 7:00PM
Present: Chairman McGrath, Corcoran, LaVeck and Dwyer
Review of minutes: Minutes from February 13th, 2018 were read and unanimously approved.
Administrative Review: Leslie Sziabady appeared to defend his application for a CTA at 920 Massachusetts Avenue. The
application was to replace the asphalt-shingle roof with another of the same sort. The commission readily approved the applica-
LaVeck felt that reviewing applications like Sziabady's was an inefficient use of time. He proposed a review of recent applica-
tions in three months time to consider ways of amending the guidelines streamlining the application process for situations like
this. The commission concurred.
Old Business: McGrath met with DPW director Jack Rodiquenz regarding the posting of signs to mark the APD. Rodiquenz
recommended that the signs be larger than those that McGrath originally proposed. McGrath will note the size and type of signs
used in other towns' districts and size accordingly. The DPW will provide posts and installation. The signs themselves would
normally be manufactured by D&G graphics in Fitchburg. The DPW has a budget for signs, which could be used for this project
with the town manager's approval. State approval will not be required for signs along route 2A. Rodiquenz was concerned
about "sign pollution" and recommended that historic district and APD signs be combined on one post.
McGrath also plans to help with restoration of the town pound: the gate will be sanded, painted and provided with a lock. Brush
will be trimmed back and certain trees may be removed if they appear to be threatening the structure.
Dwyer discussed his comparison of the current APD bylaw with the model bylaw suggested by Mass. Historic. He felt the current
bylaw was okay for now, and that more time would be needed to discuss and agree on any changes. LaVeck had also reviewed
the bylaws and agreed that it was too complex to propose a new bylaw for the spring town meeting. He also thought a 24-month
delay should be considered.
Dwyer also presented a letter to be sent to the owner of 53 Lancaster, which appears to be in the process of demolition by ne-
glect. The letter was approved with certain edits.
===PAGE 2===
Adjourned: 8:02 PM
