===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday October 8th, 2019 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:00PM with all members present. 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on September 10th were read and approved.  Ron Dion was present to clarify that he was not a pro-
fessional builder. 
Correspondence: 
The Town Manager sent an electronic letter to the APDC to clear up the confusion over the APD bylaw.  She explained that the 
town clerk made a formatting error when the bylaw was sent to the Attorney General’s office, obscuring parts of the document 
including the definition of Demolition by Neglect.  She also acknowledged that LaVeck had noticed the omission and notified her 
at that time.  She is currently taking measures to correct the issue.  She had discussed the matter with Town Council, who was of 
the opinion that the error would not affect the validity of the law passed at Town Meeting. 
McGrath sent letter to Paul Holtz at Mass Historic asking for advice on economic feasibility of renovating a building like the Old  
Primary School and bringing it up to modern building codes. 
New Business 
Ron Dion was present to discuss the Primary School.  He had followed Select Board meetings, carefully reviewed the Vertex 
study, and personally inspected building.  He had found few real problems with the building in the report or in his inspection.  
Dion said that claims of mold contamination and the dilapidated state of building are greatly exaggerated by certain members of 
the select board.  He also discovered the building permit for last roofing job 20 years ago.  He expressed annoyance at lack of 
basic maintenance on the building.  Dion also said it was very well-built and has unique historical character for the town center. 
LaVeck noted that K Adams was preparing a warrant article for the Special Town Meeting on November 12th 2019 for a non-
binding resolution to demolish the Old Primary School. 
The Special Town Meeting conflicted with the APDC regular meeting time, so the board voted to reschedule the meeting for No-
vember. 
The planning board included discussion of the Brooks House with the APDC on their 9-23-2019 agenda.  The APDC was notified 
via the Lunenburg email system, but for various reasons no members of the APDC attended the meeting.  Chairman McGrath 
will contact them to express interest in meeting at later date. 
Old Business: 
APDC signs: the board reviewed a map of the APD and agreed where signs should be located: NW of 71 Highland; 15/27 Oak; 
NE of 125 Chestnut; East of 1044 Mass Ave, (none on Whiting); North corner of Rolling Acres and Lancaster; South of 123 

===PAGE 2===
Leominster; W of 860 Mass ave; McGrath will indicate positions on a map and send the map and addresses to the DPW and 
Town Manager. 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, November 5th, 7:30PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 8:07PM