===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday June 11th, 2019 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:03PM 
Present:  Chairman McGrath, Corcoran, LaVeck and Dwyer 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on May 14th were read and approved. 
Correspondence: 
McGrath had stopped at the town manager’s office to inquire if there was any plan of action to bring the town into compliance 
with the APD bylaw regarding Demolition by Neglect of the Old Primary School.  LeMieux sent a courteous reply, but gave no 
indication that any decision had been made, or course of action intended on the matter.  The APDC concluded that it had better 
explore other options to preserve historic properties owned by the town. 
McGrath also spoke with Mr. Rodriquenz of the DPW about the Old Primary School, who informed him that he had done a walk-
through with and architect some years ago, and found the basic structure sound.  But even at that time he felt that the interior 
would need to be gutted.  He had no funds or resources allocated for the preservation of the building. 
New Business: 
Officers were elected for the year.  By unanimous vote, Richard McGrath will remain Chair, James LaVeck Vice-Chair, and Cullen 
Dwyer recording clerk. 
LaVeck noted that the Ritter Building sign was missing. 
Old Business: 
McGrath presented an updated design for the APD road signs.  Some did not care for the font used.  Dwyer proposed to present 
various fonts to choose from for the next meeting. 
  
Old Primary School and Brooks House:  With still no action from the Town Manager’s office or the Select Board, the APDC dis-
cussed strategies for preserving disused town properties.  LaVeck reported that he would be joining the Capitol Planning com-
mission this year.  He believed that all available funds were spoken for this year, but that funds for the maintenance of historical 
town properties could possibly be allocated from the general fund in 2020.  He will learn more about the process in the coming 
months. 
Corcoran believed it might be helpful to get a contractor’s estimate for the work needed to preserve the roof, parapet and down-
spouts of the Old Primary School.  McGrath agreed, and will get permission from the DPW for the contractor to inspect the prop-
erty, and also for volunteers to clear vegetation. 

===PAGE 2===
As care of town properties is officially the duty of the town manager, LaVeck intended to speak with Town Counsel.  He wanted to 
review the APDC charter, and get advice on the extent of its charge and whether or not it would be overreaching its authority by 
getting a contractor to estimate the costs of repair and upkeep of the Old Primary School. 
As the town had voted to authorize the Select Board to sell the Brooks House building, town manager LeMieux said she intended 
to draw up a bid package to sell the house.  Dwyer opined that the house was of greatest historical value left in its present loca-
tion.  He agreed to review the video from the joint workshop with the Select Board, and record the details that were discussed 
regarding selling the house for use as a private residence in its original/current location.  McGrath agreed to talk to Mr. Burney 
regarding the same.  Regarding the bid package, the APDC agreed to inform LeMieux that removal of the building would not be 
allowed without stipulations; namely: that the house would remain under the jurisdiction of the APDC’s CTA application process, 
regardless of where it was moved to, that the house would remain in the town, and that possession of the house would revert 
back to the town if the conditions imposed were not fulfilled within a certain period of time. 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, July 9th, 7PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 8:27PM