===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday March 14th, 2019 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:00PM 
Present:  Chairman McGrath, Corcoran, LaVeck and Dwyer 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on March 12th were read and approved. 
New Business: 
Charles and Sally Dyer appeared to support their application for a CTA at 876 Massachusetts Avenue.  The application was to 
reroof their barn with either colored steel roofing or asphalt shingle.  The barn is of peg and beam construction.  It age is un -
known, but the barn was moved to its current location sometime after the civil war.  The commission approved the application as 
written, with the option to use either roofing material. 
Mike Brule appeared to support an application for the house at 92 Leominster Road.  The alteration would be a like-for-like re-
placement of the architectural shingle roof.  He brought photographs and sample materials to support the application.  The appli-
cation was lately submitted, since the posting of the agenda.  As a procedural matter, LaVeck motioned that the APDC deliberate 
on the matter.  Corcoran seconded and the motion passed.  Approval of the application then likewise passed.  Chairman Mc -
Grath agreed to put “Review of CTA’s” as a regular feature on future agendas, so that the Commission could deliberate on any 
applications that come before it. 
Old Business: 
McGrath reported that he had been coordinating with D & G graphics on the design of the signs for the APD.  He intended to 
confer with Rodriquenz regarding selection of materials. 
  
Old Primary School:  The Commission conferred on its observations from the site visit on  4-4-19.  Kit Walker of the DPW had 
shown the commission around the building and discussed his efforts to preserve it as well as ongoing problems he faced.  The 
BoS and town Manager had taken no action to comply with the APD bylaw regarding Demolition by Neglect.  The Commission 
unanimously agreed to draft a letter to the BoS and Town Manager, and to send a copy to the DPW as well.  The letter shall in-
form them that action on this matter is overdue, and include a list of items that specifically require immediate attention. 
Next Meeting: May 14th, 7PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 7:50PM 
