===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Anthony Nicastro, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Richard McGrath, member  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 1, 2022 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, McGrath, Sculimbrene, Lloyd,  
Review of Minutes: Review of Minutes from August 4, 2022; accepted by all present 
Public Comment: Will wait to discuss at Ritter CTA 
Correspondences:  
1) None – Mailbox was checked 
2) 2 Public hearings coming up 
a. 2 Lancaster Rd– Meeting on 12 Sept 6:05PM Town Hall 
b. 93 Main Street CTA 
New Business:  
1) 94 Main Street CTA – Window Replacement 
a. Application incomplete. Need to know what windows are new/historic.  What replacement 
windows will look like. Construction Details needed. Chair will notify the applicant. Within 5 
business day requirement. 
Old Business: 
 
1) Ritter CTA – Need to check to see if there is a response from Town 
a. Public Comment - - Mrs. Marjorie Boggio – has worked out of Ritter building since 
2009.  Wants to give daily worker input to the APDC.  Employees have to deal with 
unusually cold temperatures, causing it to be difficult to operate and complete daily 
tasks. 
b. Questions asked about maintenance of facility windows (None in 13 years, or longer) 
and heating system.  Mini splits do not provide evenly distributed heat in winter. 
c. Discussed speaking with Town Facilities director to discuss how heating would be 
larger issue and storm windows are more of an issue than windows. 
 
2) Lunenburg Municipal Design 
a. Discussion on how to use town facilities.  Pasios – Demo (Parcel), Town Hall will be 
community building, Ritter -   30 School St – Site of new Town Hall, Brooks House – 
Demo / Waste of money, storage, leased commercial space 
b. Heading to a path of New Town Hall, Demo parts of Pasios 
c. Brooks House – town voted against selling town property 
===PAGE 2===
 
3) By-Law Review 
a. Changes – Will work with Adam about verbiage on Warrant for Town Meeting 
i. Para B: Applications “must be” submitted in accordance with instructions on 
the ‘Application for Certificate to Alter’ 
ii. Para C: Delete Sentence 1 replace with after 14 days after published 
1. Delete Sentence 5 replace with “90 days from submittal” 
b. Approval of CTA without public hearing in guidelines verbiage 
c. After approval of proposed by-law changes, edits to guidelines and applications 
d. Changes submitted by Sculimbrene are clear and simple – run by lawyer 
e. Motion to approve changes submitted by McGrath, Seconded by Lloyd – All Approved 
 
Other Business: None 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
 
Adjourned: 8:55 PM 
 
 
 
 
  