===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Anthony Nicastro, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 6, 2022 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, McGrath, Sculimbrene, Lloyd,  
Review of Minutes: Not conducted -  
Public Comment: None 
Correspondences:  
1) None – Mailbox was checked 
New Business:  
1) Approved CTA for 94 Main St, Michael Batson Applicant was present 
Old Business: 
1) Ritter Building 
a. Concern of what will be found when project starts demo and repairs.  
b. Mbr Sculimbrene wanted to make a point that maintenance and preservation are keys to 
the success of Architectural preservation. 
c. Discussed various issues with windows and the climate control issues in the building 
and working conditions. 
i. Mini-splits and high ceilings a larger issue than the windows. 
d. The debate over the ability to preserve the building itself over preserve the windows.  
Town needs to see value and investment into the infrastructure. 
e. Town manager – storm windows are not in the preview of the APDC, replacement 
windows can be replaced. 
i. Response: losing the historical value of the facility, based on necessity, are there 
other alternatives to look at. 
f. Want to get an independent assessment of how we could achieve the same energy rating 
with retaining the existing windows. 
g. New windows – lifespan (15-20 years no maintenance) /  
h. How do we restart process 
i. New estimates by next week 
ii. If no agreement between sides, can we lose the facility itself 
 
2) Town Warrant Article – Town Manager, Facilities Manager and Selectman Alonzo present for 
debate 
a. Do we withdraw it. 
i. When bylaw is proposed, the entire bylaw is eligible to be modified 
===PAGE 2===
ii. Vote on using the condensed version of the article 
1. Mbr Sculimbrene call to vote (Mbr D, S, M, L all for for) 
iii. Debate over the change of “must” to “shall” 
iv. Debate over the time window for proposal decision (65vs75vs90). 
v. Vote on using the condensed version pending resolution of if Select board’s 
power to use full bylaw (Mbr Sculimbrene call to vote: Mbr D, M L for / Mbr S 
nay) 
vi. Town manager agrees that clock should start at point of finalized proposal. 
vii. Looking to cut out town clerk from process 
1. Town Manager – Will look at process 
 
 
Other Business: None 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, October 13, 2022 
 
Adjourned: 9:19 PM 
 
 
 
 
  