===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Anthony Nicastro, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Richard McGrath, member  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, August 4, 2022 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, McGrath, Sculimbrene, Lloyd,  
Review of Minutes: Review of Minutes from July 7, 2022; accepted by all present 
Public Comment: Mrs. Marshall, (Capt Jones House) requesting if solar paneling would be something the 
APDC would consider before requesting submittals from contractors. Asked about landscaping if that is 
something the committee considers. 
Correspondences:  
1) None – Mailbox was checked 
New Business:  
1) ccc 
Old Business:  
1) Ritter CTA – More detail added when rejecting CTA.  Sight specific guidelines that we used to 
justify rejection. 
a. Town concerned about window rejection, committee discussed sending a letter to ask 
for towns support in keeping with APDC’s mission and purpose. 
b. Ask known national historic preservation organization (Main Street) for New England 
network connections for networking and advising 
c. August 9 Select Board Meeting to discuss appeal to APDC CTA rejection 
 
2) Townhall CTA- No response back from CTA approval with conditions. Will see what proposal 
says from contractor. 
 
3) Website Content – Clerk says send updates to Ellen to make updates. Mr McGrath has some 
needed updates, will send to the chair. 
 
4) APD Inventory – Update inventory, Mr. Lloyd will make copies and distribute to the committee. 
 
5) Brooks House – should be kept in place and rehabbed,  
a. Town wants it moved to alternate location. No easements, no parking. Planning board 
open to discussion, but not easy.   
b. Letter to the Town, worried about demolished by neglect, should offer suggestions 
c. House is on school lot, information requested from planning board, no response 
d. Chair will contact planning board and get on their agenda for lot discussion 
===PAGE 2===
 
6) Bylaw Review 
a. Good progress made so far, make bylaw brief, run by guidelines 
b. Finding CTA on website is not easy 
c. Seeking Building Commissioner insight on CTA process 
d. Streamline application process 
i. File at Town Clerk and Land Use Office 
Other Business: None 
Next Meeting: Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, September 1, 2022 
 
Adjourned: 8:48 PM 
 
 
 
 
  