===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Cullen Dwyer, Chairman   
Richard McGrath, Vice Chair     
William Lloyd, Clerk 
Anthony Sculimbrene, member 
Nathan Lockwood, member 
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday April 11th, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:44 with McGrath, Dwyer, and Lockwood present. 
Public Comment: None 
Review of minutes: 
The minutes for the March 7th meeting were read aloud and approved with the following alterations: McGrath was present, the 
name of Amory Phelps was misspelled, and it should be included in the minutes that the APDC agreed to take no action 
regarding the window replacement at the Phelps house without a CTA. 
Correspondence: 
The Massachusetts historic commission contacted McGrath and communicated its seven-year plan, which was read aloud.  
Lockwood mentioned the benefits of a community preservation act to achieve some of the goals therein.  Discussion followed 
and it was agreed that a CPA would be beneficial to the goals of the APDC as well. 
Old Business: 
Ritter Building Renovations: Dwyer explained that he had communicated with the Select Board and explained that the APDC 
awaits a new application for a CTA, but there has been no reply so far. 
Building Inspector: Per previous meeting discussion, Dwyer reached out to the Building Inspector to discuss a revised application 
process involving closer coordination with the building department, and also to ask about enforcement measures.  No reply so 
far. 
Bylaw Review: building on previous discussions regarding the intent, purpose, and workings of the APD bylaw, Lockwood offered 
to draft a revised bylaw for review at the July meeting. 
New Business: 
Lockwood contacted Rob Bowen, one of the owners of the Old Methodist Church at 50 Main Street.  Deterioration of the steeple 
remains a concern.  Mr. Bowen never received our previous letter expressing the APDC’s concern, and asked when it was sent 
and to what address?  He also inquired if grants were available to historic preservation work, and if the APDC could recommend 
any contractors for the work?  Dwyer agreed to contact him and answer his questions. Bowen explained that he recently had the 
building painted, and did some other structural repairs.  He had plans to repair the slate roof, and had gotten a bid from a 
contractor to repair the steeple. 

===PAGE 2===
Report from Historical Commission: 
The Lunenburg Historical Commission is seeking a grant to update the town’s inventory of “K-houses”, or buildings noted on the 
1838 Kilburn map.  They intend to use the grant to hire a professional to do the work. 
The Commission is currently researching the history of black persons residing in Lunenburg. 
The Commission had no meeting in March due to an outbreak of COVID-19, but intends to present its military veterans’ banner 
project at the next regular meeting of the APDC. 
Other business:  
Dwyer will pursue setting up the next meeting in the Ritter basement where there is equipment that will enable the meeting to be 
on ZOOM. 
A CTA application from Ted Gaudet was received at the meeting, regarding re-roofing the house at 876 Massachusetts Ave.  
Lockwood and Dwyer were prepared to approve the application, but McGrath was concerned about the lack of detail in the 
description of the work.  Members present agreed to approve it provisionally, pending the outcome of McGrath’s further 
investigation. 
Next Meeting: May 2nd, Ritter Building basement, 7:30PM 
Close of meeting: 9:06PM