===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation DistrictCommission 
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chair    
William Lloyd, Clerk   
Richard McGrath, Member        
Nathan Lockwood, Member 
Vacancy     
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:43 pm, 8 August 23. It was to be recorded in accordance with the Open 
Meetings Law, with the chair (Anthony Sculimbrene) addressing the attendees and reminding them that not all items 
listed on the agenda may be discussed, and other topics not listed may also be brought up for discussion. 
The chair welcomed Chris Ruth and Damon McQuaid to the meeting. As there were no members of the general 
public present at this time there were no comments. 
 
Approval of 11 July 23 Meeting Minutes was requested by the chair. They had been prepared and distributed by 
William Lloyd prior to his departure for business abroad. Richard McGrath moved and Nathan Lockwood provided 
a second. There was no discussion about the minutes and they were accepted. 
 
The chair advised the members of the commission that he had corresponded with the architect by phone to discuss 
the Ritter project and to get an idea as to when the project would be ready for review and what was being proposed 
in the way of changes from what the APDC had seen and disapproved in 2022.  
 
Certificate to Alter, 960 Massachusetts Ave (Ritter Building) discussion included comments from the chair 
regarding the completeness of the CTA application. There were emails sent between the chair and Chris Ruth and 
the chair and Adam Burney as well as emails from Damon McQuaid. The chair had questioned whether or not all of 
the materials indicated on the CTA had been delivered to the APDC for their review. Ultimately, all of the 
information was received by email except for a description of the window frame color. And as such the CTA was 
thought not to be complete. However, as colors are exempt from review by the APDC the CTA was deemed to be 
complete.  
A debate ensued regarding the window color. The chair believed the windows should be white to maintain the 
historic character of the building and to match the other buildings in the district. Nathan, another committee 
member, mentioned that the windows in the district were mostly white due to being vinyl replacements. Damon 
defended the choice of black windows, stating that it would create a contrast with the brickwork and that it was a 
common choice for historic preservation projects. The committee discussed the importance of distinguishing the 
windows of the addition from the original building and the need to maintain the character of the historic structures. 
Thhe committee debated whether a public hearing was necessary. Nathan Lockwood argued that the application was 
complete and that the committee should not delay the project. The chair on the other hand, believed that a public 
hearing was necessary in order to comply with the Architectural Preservation District Bylaw. The committee 
eventually agreed to declare the application complete pending the submission of minor updates discussed during the 
meeting. They also agreed to schedule a public hearing within 45 days of today’s meeting to provide an opportunity 
for public input. 
 
The APDC meeting concluded with discussions on property owner notification, public outreach, and modifications 
to the guidelines and certificate to alter. The committee also briefly mentioned the work plan for the upcoming fiscal 
year. The next meeting, scheduled for September 12th, will be a public hearing to further discuss the Ritter 
renovation project. 
Recorded by, 
Nathan Lockwood with assistance from AI and Tony Sculimbrene 