===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, June 6, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:49 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, Sculimbrene, Lloyd, Lockwood 
Public Comment:  
Community Preservation Act – briefed by Rebecca Lantry - - signed into state law in 2000, 0.5- 3% 
matching funds from state based off of taxes on property tax. There was no vote in Lunenburg in 2002. 
There is an effort to put back on ballet in 2024, multiple local towns have moved forward on enacting 
it. 
Review of Minutes:  
Meeting Minutes for May, Sculimbrene voted to approve, seconded by Mbr Lloyd; approved by Dwyer, 
Sculimbrene, Lloyd; Lockwood & McGrath abstained 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Karen McCarthy (Admin Assistance) for new website. Looking for pictures to associate with the 
APDC for the new website.  
Old Business: 
 
1) National Historical Tax Credit program for facility rehabs, up to 20% federally 
a. Has to be in the historical district, or on a historical register.  Will pass on information 
to the condo owner to help assist with repairs.  Could have additional credit from the 
state. 
New Business: 
 
1) New Facility Manager Chris Ruth 
a. Looking forward to the new working relationship with him. 
b. Hired new architect to redo plans for Ritter building, will update with new wheelchair ramp 
and window restoration / replacement plan. 
c. Parks commission, wanting to save the man-made cave from 86 years ago. 
d. Saved 3 pallets of bricks from old primary school to be used for new park 
e. Talking about his background and future 
i. Has experience with historic buildings, main concern is the town hall. 
ii. What will be his advice to master planning effort that starts in June 
===PAGE 2===
iii. Concern of once you open a historic facility, you open it up to additional work, and 
needs.  The master plan needs to factor in care and maintenance moving forward. 
f. Informed him that the APDC goal is to keep historical buildings in current state as a standard 
and restore as needed. 
2) Motion to approve CTA 993 Massachusetts Ave by Member Sculimbrene, seconded by Lockwood, 
approved by all present (Lloyd, Sculimbrene, Lockwood, and Dwyer) 
3) Voted Member Sculimbrene as new chair, and Lloyd to continue as clerk, voted yay by all members 
present. 
 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, July 11, 2023 
 
Adjourned: 9:11 PM 
 
 
 
 
  