===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, October 10, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7: PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
1) Introduction with Mr. Brian Gingras 
a. Introduced APDC committee members 
Review of Minutes:  
Meeting Minutes for September meeting nomination for approval my Mbr McGrath, seconded by Mbr Lloyd.  
Voted approved by all members present.  Will be reviewing August minutes at the October meeting. 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Post from Freedoms Way Grant Program 
a. Looking to see if this something that a resident in need might be able to use to support renovations 
and improvements. 
Old Business: 
 
1) Town Master Plan Meeting 
a. Steering Committee chair, Jocey G 
b. Mbr Sculimbrene attended as town resident and made comment about ensuring important 
facilities (Ritter, Pasios) are taking into consideration with the 10-year master plan. 
2) Boucher / Mailer 
a. Mbr Sculimbrene provided a draft to review of mailer sample 
b. Want to involve the homeowners in the APDC and encourage 
3) District historical markers 
a. Added value to the district and encourages foot traffic 
b. Walking tour that used to be conducted by elementary school 
c. Digital means added to plan 
 
New Business: 
 
1) Mr. Gingras discussion 
a. Demolition by neglect conversation 
i. Lancaster Ave house, within the APD but resident is not able to sustain or repair 
ii. By-law in question was put in to play to protect historical structures in the APD, by -law 
states that the town should take legal action if other enforcement methods do not result in 
action by the resident. 
1. What do we have in our disposal to enforce the act of demolition by neglect 
a. Can not use zoning code 
===PAGE 2===
b. Cise and desist is next step 
c. Asking town to use legal counsel to bring resident to court 
d. Court is very expensive and time consuming 
e. Unpleasant aspect of residents that does not have means to repair, can 
push resident to sell structure verse repair of structure. 
b. New state energy code – 1 Jan - 50% or more of renovation leads to need to bring entire structure 
up to code 
c. Property Maintenance Code / Nuance By-law – Lunenburg does not have one 
i. Can issue fees 
ii. Another layer of enforcement 
iii. Can seek volunteers to help volunteer to conduct repairs 
iv. Suggest Meeting with Town Council about By-law 21D enforcement which can issue 
fines up to $300 per day/per violation 
2) Approved Town Hall renovation Spring ’22 (Condition with chimney repairs) 
a. APDC wanted to see estimate for the repairs (Estimated 70K, came in at 300K)  
b. Worried about approved Ritter building estimate 
 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, November 14, 2023 
 
Adjourned: 8:38 PM 
 
 
 