===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, 7 November 2023 
Via Zoom Meeting 
Call to Order: At 7:43 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Nathan Lockwood, Richard McGrath 
Public Comment:  
None 
Review of Minutes:  
 The minutes for the October and August 2023 meetings are still under development. Sculimbrene asked 
for Nathan to provide the data from the August meeting. He will touch base with William Lloyd to see if the 
October minutes can be reviewed and approved at the December meeting.  
Correspondences: 
  
 There was no correspondence to report. 
Current Business: 
 
1) The CTA for 912 Massachusetts Ave roof replacement was discussed. Given the nature of the 
work the chair had informed the applicant through town staff that work could proceed. Nathan 
Lockwood moved to ratify the replacement of the roof shingles with Richard McGrath offering 
the second. The ratification was approved. 
2) There was discussion about how to allow for routine work to proceed quickly and yet still follow 
the APD bylaw. There was consensus to revise the current notification process of planned work 
with the APDC and to seek support from the Building Commissioner to enforce that requirement 
via the building permit process. Sculimbrene will follow up with the Building Commissioner to 
determine why there was no CTA or notification for roofing work done at the property just east 
of 912 Massachusetts Ave. 
3) A meeting is scheduled with Town Counsel on 16 November, 1:40-2 pm, to discuss APDC 
authority with regard to demolition by neglect.  
Old Business: 
 
1) Sculimrene provided a report of the presentation made by the Master Plan consultant on 2 November. 
Comments made by the consultant and those in attendance were supportive of historic preservation 
activity in Lunenburg. Sculimbrene will continue to monitor the planning process as there is no 
representation from the Historical Commission or the APDC on the Steering Committee. 
===PAGE 2===
2) Work on the notification of residents in the APD, a brochure and modifications to the guidelines and 
the CTA continues. Sculimbrene reported that he had reached out to Cullen Dwyer via text and email 
to see if could share any information regarding the brochure but had not heard back from Cullen. He 
will follow up with him by phone. 
3) Richared McGrath asked to include an agenda item at the APDC’s December meeting for a report on 
the Hometown Heroes banners that are being developed by the Historic Commission. 
 
Closing Public Comments: 
 
1) None 
 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, 12 December 2023, 7:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Adjourned: 8:24 PM 
 
Submitted by: 
 
Tony Sculimbrene 
Chair 
 
 
 
 
  