===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, July 11, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath 
Public Comment:  
None 
Review of Minutes:  
Meeting Minutes for June, Sculimbrene voted to approve, seconded by Mbr Lloyd; approved by  
Sculimbrene, Lloyd; McGrath abstained 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Heritage Area information card. 
Old Business: 
 
1) Chair Sculimbrene has taken a few pictures to submit for the APDC website. 
2) Ritter Building 
a. Old photo provided proof that some windows were not original 
b. Plan to include black on black windows – would move farther away from original 
window design to keep historical look. 
c. Chair Sculimbrene will reach out to the new architect to ask about the design process 
and status. 
 
New Business: 
 
1) Made contact with New Building Inspector Brian Gingras 
a. Talked about him attending the August or September meeting 
b. Suggested sending out a mailer for all homes in the APDC zone 
2) New Member solicitation 
a. Going to look at recruiting a member within the APDC zone 
3) Master Plan input 
a. Initial meeting could not attend, with ask about next meeting date/time & location 
4)  Setting goals and efforts for this year 
a. Main point of effect will be to update ‘certificate to alter’.  Moving to a digital submittal.  
Next will be the guidelines. 
b. Goal is to keep certificate to alter in simple terms to avoid any guidelines changes. 
===PAGE 2===
5) The push for Community Preservation Act 
a. Spring would be recommended time to raise the question to the town. 
b. Needs to include all town committees, veterans, sewer dept, ect. to get all town committees 
on the same page of the benefits of the plan. 
c. Will ask town council and historical committee members about the feasibility and allowed 
work that can be tied to the Community Preservation Act. 
6) Historical Banners 
a. On hold for a few months for committee availability. 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, August 8, 2023 
 
Adjourned: 8:10 PM 
 
 
 
 
  