===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, April 9, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) March 12, 2024 – Motion to approve by Member McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
 
New Business: 
 
1) Looking at the topic of solar regulations in the town 
a. APDC would like to be involved in the conversations but will continue to stay within our 
guidelines for work within the APDC 
b. Will also check with Village District to see what is included on the subject of solar 
2) 925 Mass Ave 
a. Presentation tomorrow about future plan for 925 Mass Ave 
b. Want to have a clear role for the APDC with planning for that location, advisory role vs Village 
District design guidelines. 
3) Meeting Schedule has officially changed to 2nd Thursday of the month. 
 
Old Business: 
 
1) Revised APD guidelines have been sent to the town manager and the chair of the Select Board (Michael-
Ray Jefferies) 
a. No response back yet 
b. Want to move to a smart form that is able to be accessed via the website 
2) Recruiting New Member 
a. Chair had discussion with Kim Duffy to join. 
3) 50 Main Street 
a. Mbr Lockwood was able to talk to one of the residents.  Roof repair was recently completed, but 
steeple was not included.  Asked about fixing the steeple to a state of sustainability, not an 
===PAGE 2===
extravagant repair.  Talked about resources to help, contractors that have experience in 
restoration of items like the steeple.  
b. Can we come up with a list of contractors that specialize in restoration 
c. Can we come up with a list of tax breaks/rebates to help with restoration 
d. No timeline set, but needs/expectations have been acknowledged 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) 763 Mass Ave proposed demo 
a. Developer has purchased the house and plans to demo and build 3 duplexes 
i. Currently has an 18-month delay of demolition  
b. Can look at APDC expansion of the district lines, to what scale/distance 
c. Will look at what a new district map would look like. 
2) 53 Lancaster Ave 
a. The current owner doesn’t have the resources to maintain the home but there may be a prospective 
buyer who would purchase the home and restore it while offering the current resident the right to a 
life estate. Mbr McGrath is going to followup on this potential way to avoid demolition by neglect 
of an historic home within the APD.  
 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, May 9, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:25 PM 