===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, August 8, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:36 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) June 13, 2024 - Motion to approve by Member McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all 
2) July 11, 2024 - Motion to approve by Member McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
2) Received new detailed MPS guidance document for building codes and historic preservation. Will send out 
to committee.  Great reference on how to apply building codes to historical preservation.  Will also send to 
Brian Gingras. 
 
New Business: 
 
1) 985 Mass Ave 
a. Determination of applicability – intend to use like materials for repair and submitted a historical 
photo and plan to comply with historical photo. 
b. Front porch columns have given way and had to remove material and prop up roof until 
construction can begin. 
c. Motion to approve the DOA by member McGrath, seconded by Lockwood: Approved by All  
 
2) Notification Letter 
a. Was waiting on revised by-law and see if that was the time to send out the mailer.   
i. More work needs to done on by-law and guidelines 
ii. Expanded the APDC is the most important piece 
iii. Motion to send out letter by member McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by 
McGrath/Lloyd/Sculimbrene, Lockwood abstained – Motion Passes 
iv. Member Sculimbrene will inquire about mailing list from town and process for 
acquiring postage. And will clean up letter and attachments before mailing out. 
b. Member Lloyd created a draft brochure to add to the mailer. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Old Business: 
 
1) Preservation of the Brooks House 
a. Member Lockwood would like to propose a warrant to have select board to create parking for the 
use of the facility and add recommendations for future use, ie sale to private citizen. 
b. Will the Lunenburg Municipal design committee design hold up action on the Brooks House.  Will 
bring up our proposal at the next design meeting. 
c. Motion by Member Lockwood to engage with Town Council to find best way to proceed, 
seconded by McGrath, Approved by All – Motion Passes 
d. Issued of concern, town giving up land, parking, driveway 
2) 763 Mass Ave 
a. Member McGrath has spoken with Brian Gingras, developer has a few on-going projects in town 
and might busy.  But has said they plan to purchase the property. Still in Demo-Delay status 
3) Townhall / Ritter Renovations 
a. Town recently put out for bid for some projects, detailed plan for marshal park and new roof for 
the adult activates center. 
b. Concern that the Townhall and Ritter is not getting the needed attention , member Sculimbrene 
will meet with the new select board chair and express out concerns. 
c. Would need to see a revised estimate for work to be completed 
4) 50 Main Street 
a. Member Lockwood spoke with one of the owners, they were gone for the summer, but will call 
one of the companies that the APDC recommended 
5) Town Council Meeting 
a. Would like to discuss the Brooks House and the merger of the APDC and Historical Commission. 
Concern about conflicting regulations of both groups. Looking for a September meeting date. 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:05 PM 