===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, March 12, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) February 14, 2024 – Motion to approve by Member McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Communication with Brian Gingras (Building commissioner) 
a. No land use director, which is critical to town business 
b. Hired contractor and temp hire (Jocie) to fill the gap 
New Business: 
 
1) Cupola from old gas station at 925 Mass Ave 
a. Is similar to old cupola at historical society that was lost in fire.  Wants to salvage it before demo 
of the gas station. 
2) Solar Panel Installation 
a. Two houses recently had solar panels installed with building permits, but are within the APDC, 
and the council was not involved. 
b. Mass law does not allow the restriction of any solar projects 
c. Need to codify the APDC position and ability to regulate or will the planning board have the lead 
in controls or regulations with future solar installs. 
d. Mbr Lockwood motions to commission to adjust guidelines to ease solar installation as a future 
guideline change, seconded by Mbr McGrath – Amended verbiage by Mbr Lloyd - Approved by 
all members 
e. Chair will discuss with legal council and Planning Board. 
 
Old Business: 
 
1) Recruiting New Member 
a. Chair had discussion with Kim Duffy to join the APDC, wants to discuss moving meeting to first 
or second Thursday for reoccurring meeting. 
2) APD Property Owner notification 
a. Once the new guidelines are approved, a mailer will go out to all households withing the APD.  
===PAGE 2===
b. Fee to post a public notice is $40 which will be the starting point for any future fees for a CTA. 
c. Approved Guidelines will create a new CTA and a new form for easy submittal.  
d. Motion to approve guidelines by Chair, Seconded by Mbr McGrath, Approved by All,  
3) 50 Main Street 
a. Mbr Lockwood was not able to reconnect with owner of the condo association. Recommend a 
one-on-one meeting with the owner verse a call to bring to council meeting. Mbr Lockwood will 
try and set up the one-on-one meeting. 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, April 9, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:25 PM 