===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 17, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) Tanner Cole – Discussion about DoA 990 Mass Ave 
a. Recently purchased house, and plans to remodel.  Not making any major alterations to 
exterior, most work will be done on the interior. 
b. Chimney was an add on in the 1970’s and wants to remove it as part of the renovation.  There 
is water coming in around the chimney and will also need space for connection to town sewer 
line. 
c. Will be trying to match existing exterior in spring after making it water tight for the winter. 
Will provide more details in the spring to the APDC for approval. 
d. Motion to approve DoA by Member Sculimbrene, seconded by Lloyd, approved by all –  DoA 
Passes! 
 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) August 8, 2024 - Motion to approve by Member Sculimbrene, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all 
2) September 12, 2024 - Motion to approve by Member Sculimbrene, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Carter Teranzini – Ritter will be going back out to bid, will phase the Ritter building to Roof/exterior 
repairs, then windows, and handicap ramp will be tabled to a later date.  Hoping that it will go back out to 
bid soon. 
 
New Business: 
 
1) None  
Old Business: 
 
1) Merger of the APDC and Historical Commission 
a. Town council is looking into the bylaws that govern the APDC and see if that bylaw can be 
absorbed by the Historical Commission. Will also need to research to see if the State Attorney 
General was aware of the APDC bylaws being passed.  Also needs approval to complete the 
research.   
===PAGE 2===
b. Motion to consider a merger with the Historical Commission keeping all ADPC regulations in 
place.  Will be dependent on the legal review and eventual town warrant. 
i. Motion by Member Sculimbrene, Seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all –  Motion Passes! 
ii. Motion to approve Carter Teranzini’s modifications to the article X submitted by the 
APDC, motioned by Member Lockwood, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all – Motion 
Passes! 
 
2) Preservation of the Brooks House 
a. Town will look at exploring options for the Brooks house, and will be on the town meeting in 
May. 
i. Will coordinate with Carter on current status, did it make it as a warrant? 
ii. Does seem that the property is already owned by town vs school board. 
 
3) Lunenburg Municipal Building design committee 
a. Request for Proposal has been put out for bid for the 10% design 
4) 763 Mass Ave 
a. No update at this meeting 
 
5) 50 Main Street 
a. No update at the meeting 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) Will discuss with new land use director about APDC mailers and the Brooks house . Will invite to one of 
our meetings. 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, November 14, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:10 PM 