===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, May 9, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, members  Lockwood, McGrath, 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) 9 April 24 Meeting – Motion to approve by Member McGrath, seconded by Lockwood, Approved by all 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Chair met by text and email with Chris Ruth to determine the status of the Town Hall and Ritter projects. 
Ruth did not have any defined plan to move the projects forward. Chair will send another note to Ruth and 
the Town Manager asking for a plan to move the projects forward. 
 
Public Hearing: 
1) The hearing convened at 7:54 pm. The chair described the purpose of the Public Hearing as reviewing and 
approving the Architectural Preservation District Design Guidelines. He provided a summary of those 
changes and requested comments from the public and members of the APDC. There were none. A motion 
to approve the revised guidelines was made by Lockwood with a second from McGrath. They were 
approved unanimously by a roll call vote of Sculimbrene, Lockwood and McGrath. 
2) The chair brought the public hearing to a close. 
 
New Business: 
 
1) Sculimbrene and Lockwood met with Town Counsel to discuss expansion of the Architectural Presevation 
District (APD). Counsel advised it was possible but would require a vote at Town Meeting. The issue of 
solar panel installs on historic properties in the APD. Counsel indicated that public law encourages solar 
installs with few restrictions. Offering financial incentives to property owners to assist with historic 
preservation work on historic properties would require special legislation and a vote at Town Meeting. 
Counsel was not aware of any community in the state that offers such incentives and more research would 
be needed.. 
2) There was discussion among the members of the APDC regarding a potential merger of the Historic 
Commission and the APDC. Additional research would be needed prior to pursuing such a plan. 
a.  
3) 925 Mass Ave 
a. The chair provided an update on the meeting hosted by the Town Manager with various officials 
on the subject property. While outside of APDC jurisdiction (the building is not 75 years old) the 
===PAGE 2===
chair offered his support for reuse of the existing building. He did have concerns about the 
potential clean up standards as all of the necessary environmental screening and evaluation work 
has not been completed. The consultant hired by the town via a state program will prepare a final 
recommendation on use of the site for consideration by the Select Board. 
 
 
Old Business: 
 
1) 50 Main Street-a list of contractors for the property owner to consider for repairs is still pending. 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) 763 Mass Ave proposed demo-Member McGrath provided an update on the property. No action has been 
taken by the owner as required by the Demolition Delay letter issued by the Historical Commission.  
 
Public Comment: There was none. 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, 13 June, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:29 PM by motion from Lockwood, second by McGrath and approved by all. 