===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, August 14, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 10 July minutes by Lockwood, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) 3 Main Street Determination of Applicability (DoA) 
a. Received by Chair Sculimbrene and forwarded it to committee 
b. Facility has had numerous window replacements in the past.  Submittal looked like a solid 
window, and in line with past replacements.  The building has already been heavily updated and 
no concerns with update. 
c. Motion to approved by McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all. 
d. Will wet sign DoA and upload to OpenGov.com 
2) Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee 
a. APDC had previously voted to recommend to the town to appoint member of the APDC to the 
committee. 
b. Prior to requesting the position to be added, the select board asked for an APDC member to join 
the LMDC. 
c. Motion to approve member Sculimbrene to represent the APDC on the LMDC by member Lloyd, 
seconded by McGrath, approved by all.  
3) Master Plan Steering Committee (MPSC) 
a. Committee is very far behind, Kim Duffy (Chair of MPSC) is working hard to get back on track 
with past quorum issues 
b. Have about 100 recommendations that will be consolidated down to about 8 main goals to work 
on. These 100 recommendations were sent out to around 40 different boards and committees 
within the town to review and provide input respective to their committee. 
c. The APDC members will review the questions at own leisure and discuss at the September 
meeting and vote on committees’ feedback to the MPSC. 
d. Lunenburg having the town planner position vacant has had an impact on progress of the 
committee. 
e. Went almost a year without quorum, it is a 15-member committee and now has a set quorum of 5. 
===PAGE 2===
f. Concern about amount of town feedback, have received approximately 800 individual inputs so 
far. Consultant have started to draft report that will be due in October. 
g. Discussion on items 
i. Town green off of Memorial Drive 
1. Gazebo that has been the unofficial town gathering space but is not functional 
due to traffic/parking limitations.  Can add green space but not impacting the 
current use of TC Passios. 
ii. Walking business center of the town 
1. Future use of TC Passios /  
2. Need growth of population to add to walkability into town center. 
4) Public Access Channel (PAC) has asked to interview committees to give input on the activities.  
 
Old Business: 
 
1) APDC Historical Commission Merger 
a. Met with town counsel about the merger, the Monday after our last meeting.  He is working on a 
consolidate merger plan for the two committees. Was unaware of some of the ease of efforts to 
join. 
2) 763 Mass Ave Street 
a. No update 
3) 50 Main Street 
a. Member Lockwood’s recommends that we send a formal letter inviting them to out next meeting 
to discuss way forward. Will see what response we get, and make next steps as needed. 
4) Need to discuss the extension of the historic district farther down Mass Ave. at next meeting.  
a. Extending to the cross street to Chestnut, or police station  
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, September 11, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:31 PM
 