===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation DistrictCommission 
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chair    
William Lloyd, Clerk   
Richard McGrath, Member        
Nathan Lockwood, Member 
Vacancy     
 
 
 
Notice of Meeting 
8 May 2025, 7:30 PM 
Ritter Building Basement Conference Room 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded 
and will be broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel. The recording of this meeting will be available on the 
Lunenburg Public Access YouTube channel within 24 hours. The following information is also provided for citizens to 
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353?omn=81370473911 Meeting ID: 792 737 0353  Additionally, please be 
advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the 
Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the 
subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom 
application.  You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or 
following the conclusion of the meeting. Participants via Zoom may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
Public participation is encouraged, and public comments may be permitted on regular agenda topics in addition to the 
public comment periods, at the discretion of the Chair. The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the 
meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken because of these discussions. Not all 
items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent 
permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
AGENDA 
1. CALL TO ORDER  
 
2.  PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
3.  MINUTES APPROVAL  
 10 April 2025 Meeting Minutes 
  
4. CORRESPONDENCE 
  
5. CURRENT BUSINESS 
 Annual Town Meeting  
o Brooks House sale/lease report 
o Lunenburg Municipal Building Project 
o OpenGov.com review and approval process 
 Historical Commission/Architectural Preservation District Commission merger update 
o Reappointments for 2025-2028 Term (Sculimbrene and Lloyd?) 
 
6. OLD BUSINESS 
 Status of Town Hall and Ritter repair projects 
 Status of 763 Mass Ave 
 50 Main Street (Old Methodist Church) 
 Work Plan for Fiscal Year 2023-24 
o APD Property Owner notification (Status of mailing) 
o Brochure/Public Outreach and Communication 

===PAGE 2===
 
7. CLOSING PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
8.  NEXT MEETING: 12 June  2025, 7:30 PM (NOTE- subject to change due to Master Plan Public Meeting) 
 
9.  ADJOURNMENT 