===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, July 10, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:33 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 12 June minutes by McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) Historical Commission – APDC Merger 
a. Have not seen any progress.   Chairman Sculimbrene has reached out to town council and town 
manager to follow up.  Concern that time is running short to make it to special town meeting.  
Should we bring up a citizen request to try to approach this from another angle ? 
b. Proposal will be for the Historical Commission to absorb the duties of the APDC and enforce 
council’s goals. 
c. Town manager has stated that town council has several items pending.  Another member of town 
expressed that this item should be brought up at the by-law review meeting that meets every five 
years, and will meet in 2025. (Looks at all town by-laws, reviews and makes any needed changes) 
d. Will continue to pursue current way forward, but will be open to merger being pushed into the by-
law review.  
 
2) APDC Budget 
a. Remainder of last year’s APDC budget was pushed towards the Hometown Heros project. 
  
3) Municipal Building Design Committee (MBDC) 
a. Proposal for a member of the APDC to be on the committee. 
b. Motion to recommend the Select Board to appoint a member of the APDC to the MBDC by 
member Lloyd, seconded by McGrath, approved by all members. 
c. Seems like there is interest in the Brook’s House from the school committee. 
 
Old Business: 
 
1) Ritter Building 
===PAGE 2===
a. Have completed most of the work. Currently working punch-list items. Fixed all the slate, 
repaired all gutters, and wood around the roof perimeter, lined gutters with a rubber coating.  
 
2) 763 Mass Ave Street 
a. No update 
3) 50 Main Street 
a. No update 
4) Historical Commission 
a. Hometown Heros presentation to Select board, was received well by all. 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, August 14, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:01 PM
 