===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 11, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 14 August minutes by Mcgrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) 1 Main Street Determination of Applicability (DoA) 
a. Motion to update the record for the previous DoA to change address from 3 Main St to 1 Main St 
as it shows on the Town GIS map.  Motion by McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, Approved by all 
members. 
b. New DoA with three new renovations, to include new shutters, fiberglass windows lintel, and 
fiberglass cupola on the roof. 
c. Motion to approve new DoA, motion to approve by member Lloyd, seconded by Lockwood, 
approved by all. 
2) Master Plan Steering Committee (MPSC) 
a. Member Sculimbrene reading of the APDC comments to the request for input from town 
committees for the MPSC 
i. Town green – Additional population is needed to add density to the center to increase 
walk ability.  Current gazebo is not historic, but APDC does understand that the location 
is not ideal due to safety, traffic, and limited parking and would support a change.  
ii. Town Center – Increasing population could affect historical structures in the town center. 
Village district by laws has more influence on the guide development of that area. Demo 
of T.C. Passios or a partial demo could be considered; however, the Brooks House should 
not be considered for demo but slated for reuse. 
iii. Montion to approve comments to MPSC by Lloyd, seconded by McGrath, Approved by 
all. 
3) APDC and Historical Committee merger 
a. Adam Costa has handed off the paperwork to another member of the firm to ensure we have the 
warrant finished before the deadline to have it posted for November town meeting.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Old Business: 
 
 
1) 763 Mass Ave Street 
a. Historical commission sent a certified letter to owner, to address the demolition by neglect.  Letter 
was returned to sender with no contact made. 
2) 50 Main Street 
a. Member Sculimbrene has drafted a formal letter to the owner of 50 Main St to invite them to our 
next meeting or we could hold a separate meeting at a date or time of their convenience.   
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:09 PM 