===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, January 16, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 14 November minutes by Mbr Lloyd, seconded by McGrath, approved by all mbrs 
2) Motion to approve 12 December minutes by Mbr Lloyd, seconded by McGrath, approved by all mbrs 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
New Business: 
 
1) Introduction of new Land use director for Lunenburg, Christopher Reilly. 
a. Has held several positions in planning roles 
b. Has experience in demo delay, historical builds 
c. Three key issues 
i. Bring experience to the position 
ii. Wanted a more hands-on role of planning 
iii. On-going master plan – involvement and guidance 
2) Cyrus Kilburn Survey 
a. Historical commission has hired a consultant to do a survey of all housing and key town locations 
that were all on the original town survey. 
b. Will allow future addition to the historical register 
c. Will be completed this year 
3) Town pound 
a. Needs some tree removal and stones replaced 
b. Gate also needs some work, and want to add historical sign 
c. Believe the work can be completed by volunteers 
d. Was created in 1760’s 
4) Hometown Heros Project 
a. Still on-going, will be mainly focused within the APDC 
Old Business: 
 
1) APDC and Historical Commission Merger 
===PAGE 2===
a. Chairman Sculimbrene spoke with Counsel Teranzini, he is concerned with the APDC bylaws 
affecting the entire town.  Town Council will need to review any past Massachusetts AG’s 
approval of the APDC bylaws. 
i. Will town be willing to enforce the bylaws throughout the town. 
ii. Can do a review of prior decisions made by the state for the town of Lunenburg 
b. By-law was changed around the same time as the town counsel switched out.  Was there a lapse in 
the review.  Ultimately, we need to receive what is approved by state AG.  
i. Motion to have all discussion with/about town counsel held in executive session by Mbr 
Lockwood, seconded by McGrath, approved by all. 
c. Several key factors with the merger, such as the historical commissions standing in state 
regulations and guidelines – Can the two bodies merge and still run as required by state law. 
d. Town Land Use Director is willing to assist with the drafting the new by-laws, will be discussed 
with Carter Teranzini. 
e. Lockwood – will work with Riely and planning board 
i. Cannot take for granted the other stakeholders in town 
ii. Extend the APDC to Mass Ave/Chestnut St 
iii. Concern about appearance of the merger by residents, such as will one council’s views 
make the other more difficult. 
iv. Wants to focus on modifying the guidelines for update, and extending the district 
boundaries. 
v. Mass Ave - Concern about spot zoning to include certain properties. 
 
2) Lunenburg Municipal Planning Committee 
a. Taylor and Burns has the award for design 
i. Mbr Sculimbrene is worried that the design is flawed and has not included school 
superintendent and town manager inputs. – Wants to pause design. 
ii. Micheal Ray-Jefferies does not know if he will pause the design 
iii. Land Use also had concerns about design 
iv. Historical Society had issues with size of the addition, also would having a free -standing 
new town hall at location of old Primary school by well received by the town.  
v. Recommendation to have school superintendent, town manager, and design team all 
come to the table together with committee.  -  Will not be well received by town if 
committee can’t agree. 
1. Can have a smaller footprint with better design considerations 
2. Any APDC issues will be brought to the full commission before any formal 
objections to the design from the APDC. 
 
3) Determination of applicability 
a. Recommend to upgrade to digital format – building permits already use system. 
i. Will have to register for the opengov.com site. 
ii. Will remain a paper version for those who need them. 
iii. Will provide a historical ledger of transmittals. 
iv. Will have to include verbiage in the guidelines to use the open.gov site. 
b. Need to keep digitalization in line with the rest of towns processes and plans– keep chain of 
command/custody in town regulations. 
c. Commission agreed to use opengov.com. 
 
4) Town Hall & Ritter Renovations 
a. Both contacts have been awards. 
b. Town hall chimneys are Phase I of the process. 
c. Ritter Building schedule has not been released as of today’s meeting. 
 
5) Brooks House 
a. Is in the hands of the Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee. 
b. Concern still exists about it not given enough planning towards a thorough design.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6) 762 Mass Ave 
a. No new information 
 
7) 50 Mass Ave 
a. Talked to other members of the condo association, will need more follow up 
b. Town member from the historical commission family had previously donated to the prior church 
i. Federal grants for 2025 have opens up 
 
8) Owner Notification – on hold until merger decision. 
 
9) Historical Commission 
a. Working with cemetery commission restoring Goodrich cemetery plot –  Work in spring of 2025 
b. Will provide expertise and oversight of work, also recommend a plaque to acknowledge the 
interned people and area. 
c. Town looking at taking another area of eminent domain for the other lost cemetery. 
 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, February 13, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:59 PM 