===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, March 13, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 13 February minutes by Member Sculimbrene, seconded by Lloyd, approved 
unanimously. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) Lunenburg Municipal Planning Committee 
a. Short meeting – Chair was not present. 
b. Brooks house is on the agenda for next week. 
c. No work on putting Brooks house on the warrant. 
d. Concern expressed about what will be shown on PowerPoint to town and potential cost to town. 
 
2) Open Gov 
a. Determination of applicability has not yet been posted to the website. 
 
3) APDC and Historical Commission Merger 
a. Member Sculimbrene has been in communication with the Town Manager, who was able to get 
ahold of Town Counsel. 
b. Town Manager does not want to put this on the warrant, town counsel’s input made it sound like 
the process will be much more difficult. 
c. Town Manager will inform town counsel that warrant will not go forward and that he needs to 
work with the APDC to work on plan. Will invite town counsel to our next meeting. 
 
4) Future meeting 
a. Zoom capable meetings expire 31Mar2025 
b. Will adapt next meeting as needed 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
5) Town Hall 
a. There is a weather vane in the attic that needs to be put up 
i. Chris Ruth said there is some roof repairs that need to happen before the vane can go 
back up. 
ii. Could be years out if added to the main Ritter/Town Hall project 
b. One chimney is complete, was evaluated by member McGrath. 
i. Second chimney work is on-going 
ii. Same crew will then start work at the Ritter  
 
6) 763 Mass Ave 
a. Is going to be developed as a two family home. 
 
7) 50 Main State 
a. Member Lockwood, obtained a new point of contact, Duval, and has reached out to him. 
 
8) Historical Society  
a. Study is complete, research is ongoing, looking to add several properties and locations in town 
 
9) Brooks House 
a. Member Sculimbrene was able to get a tour of the house.  House is in good shape, the fire escape 
and door are only major issues that were of concern. 
 
Other Business: None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, April 10, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:00 PM
 