===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, December 11, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:39 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Minutes will be voted in January 8th meeting. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) 50 Main Street 
a. Letter to owner will be completed over the holiday break. Will have to send to multiple members 
of the trust. 
2) Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee 
a. Is gaining some momentum.  New members and committees are being represented.  
b. Making good progress, two main issues 
i. Consolidating location of town staff – Want to move all to Ridder Building.  Moves have 
not been decided but is still in the discussion phase. 5 of 7 members are not in favor of a 
new building.  Saving the Ritter and Town Hall have big implications that fall under the 
APDC purview. 
ii. 1963 Addition – adding space to existing addition without an additional large addition to 
the building footprint. An elevator would be needed to maintain ADA capabilities. 
iii. Will use GSA square footage for town office personal planning. 
iv. Will need to get rid of chair lifts, and replace with full elevators. 
c. Comments 
i. Lockwood 
1. Streamline workflow, reducing paper is a large cost savings. Town clerk is the 
only office that is required to keep paper records. Can positions be turned into 
remote positions. 
2. Brooks house – has any progress with that facility - - Brooks house is not part of 
the LMBDC. 
 
3) Master Plan Steering Committee 
===PAGE 2===
a. Will have a draft final master plan proposal before the holiday break.  Will go to planning board 
for review.  Brooks house came into conversation multiple times during the meeting.  The town 
voted on either to sell or lease the Brooks House. 
b. Lockwood Motion to represent the APDC to meet with the Select Board to discuss status and 
efforts to meet the intent of the town vote on the Brooks House. 
i. Lloyd, Aye, Lockwood, Aye, and Sculimbrene Aye - - Motion Passes 
c. Sets the stage for various boards to discuss issues that will come up over the next 10 years . 
i. Zoning issues are one of the largest issues that the master plan committee will run into. 
ii. Nice to have items like a refresh of the town center 
iii. Want the maintain Lunenburg as a “right to farm” community 
iv. Community projects, (4 in ten years) 
1. Town Admin 
2. Turkey Hill 
3. Marshal Park 
4. TC Passios 
v. Town will have to take on more debt to be able to pay for this initiative. Remove 
inefficacies to make progress. 
 
 
 
Old Business: None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, January 8, 2026 
 
Adjourned: 8:18 PM 