===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, June 12, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:33 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 10 April minutes by Lockwood, seconded by McGrath, Approved by all. 
2) Motion to approve 08 May minutes by Lockwood, seconded by McGrath, Approved by all. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) Jones House 
a. House siding replacement, plan to replace with like Hardie Board to match. 
b. Motion to approved by Lockwood, seconded by Lloyd, approved by all 
 
2) 936 Mass Ave 
a. There was a question on the drawings that were submitted on opengov.com, not enough detail to 
move forward on the decision. 
i. Some items in question are exterior finishes, windows, location of building on the site. 
b. Contractor’s comments (Yankee Restorations) 
i. There is a main house, and an attached barn set back off of the house. 
ii. Man-cave to be added on the second story, and a livable area on the first. 
1. Framing to add walls, exterior would be hardy board 
2. Replacing 2nd floor window, 1 for 1 matching Anderson windows. 3 windows 
added to front, will have existing barn door refinished and used as a window 
block. 
3. Deck added with French doors to the back of the house 
4. Other side will also have doors added and old horse windows removed. 
5. Matching existing floors on 1st floor with new floor boards on the 2nd floor 
iii. Field stone foundation, and some concrete.  Will dig under and add Lally columns to 
shore up to hold additional load of addition.  
iv. Committee Comments 
1. Changes to exterior not seen from the street, will save existing foundation. 
2. Is the barn door staying on the exterior, Yes. 
3. Did updated drawings meet the need the of town for building permit. 
===PAGE 2===
4. Motion to approved by member McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, approved by all. 
v. Contractor asked about a future plan for a garage on the property.  Wanted to verify 
process for a new structure is the same for a renovation. 
3) APDC Budget 
a. It was not realized that the $5K was an annual budget.  Was reduced to $500 annually. 
b. Could be used for Home Town Heros. Question was asked if there any funding in historical 
society for this; yes, there are some funds aside for that project. 
c. Motion to donate remaining prior year funds to support the project, seconded by McGraph, 
approved by all. 
d. Motion to approve spending up to $100 to purchase materials for the APDC mailers. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
1) APDC and historical merger 
a. Spoke with Adam Costa about merger, comment from a concerned town m ember about doing a 
by-law review before moving forward with the merger 
i. Asked Adam to have a conversation with the Town Manager to gauge the input from the 
town.  There are three options, one there is no change, second option is that the historical 
commission takes over APDC responsibilities, or third is APDC expands to cover the 
entire town. 
2) Brooks house 
a. Town thinks there is potential for the house to get leased. 
b. The Lunenburg Municipal Planning Committee, will go back to select board and ask guidance on 
what will be the way forward. 
c. Need a plan from the town so we can put plan on warrant for vote in November.  
3) 50 Main Street 
a. Has some bids in. Will have a more detailed response at next meeting. 
4) 763 Main Street 
a. Still in demo delay, no response back from the owner. Will send a formal letter to owners in 
Florida. 
5) Historical Commission 
a. Bill in the legislature to take away power to deny a demolition and only place a demo delay. 
b. Whiting and Lancaster 
i. Spoke with owner about roof falling apart, there is a buyer interested. Mbr McGrath built 
an estimate to repair property, to include demo garage, septic and a lot of rot removal.  It 
is estimated that the cost of repairs would equal or exceed the value of the house. Told 
owner she needs to do some roof repairs. Will have another update next month. 
c. Historical Commission 
i. Asked to bring back The Boston Post Cane to the oldest member of the town and passed 
to the eldest town resident. 
ii. Will ask the select board to approve reinstating the program. 
d. Hometown Heros briefing to the select board this month. 
e. Looking for sites for new historical markers. 
f. Town Wide survey is still on-going, a lot of houses on Kilburn map are getting recorded, survey 
also opens town to government grants. 
6) Lunenburg Master Plan Committee 
a. Quorum for meetings is 8, which is leading to continuous meeting cancelations.   This is limiting 
the committee ability to meet and accomplish any work. 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, July 10, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:15 PM
 