===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 13, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 16 January minutes by Mbr McGrath, seconded by Lloyd, approved by all mbrs 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
New Business: 
 
1) A 
Old Business: 
 
1) Lunenburg Municipal Planning Committee 
a. Size of space is too large for the employee ratio planning factor. 
b. Large price tag of $22 million. 
c. Design is currently live on the town page for comments. 
d. Work still needs to be done on Ritter and Town Hall. 
i. Work is ongoing on chimney project at Town Hall. 
ii. Gutters and slate repairs at Ritter are planned but delayed due to weather. 
iii. Windows are included in the $22M project if it gets funded. 
e. Member Lloyd’s comments - If the project is too large can the town create al-la-crate where we 
can fund part of work to be completed. 
f. Mbr Lockwood’s comments – Do not want to miss the opportunity to make progress in town’s 
future.  School and other departments are dependent on this progress for their future success.  This 
will include a concentration on saving and improving historical buildings (Ritter, Town Hall)  
i. New design will not change the view lines of the main roads in town center. 
g. Mbr McGrath’s comments – Nothing to add 
h. Mbr Sculimbrene’s comments – Concern that the proposed new facility is twice as large as 
originally programed.  Schools plan to move into Turkey Hill for Superintendent and ACE 
program. Drawings show the potential for rain/snow/foliage collection in alcoves in new design.  
i. Will ensure private comments are not represented as the APDC position on committee. 
ii. Brooks House is on the agenda for next week’s meeting. Would the Brooks House be 
better cared for under the economic development. 
===PAGE 2===
 
2) Open Gov 
a. Determination of applicability will be uploaded to the site. 
b. Big push to move any items that need to be routed within the town to move to opengov.com 
c. Will provide an archive of the records and is a great way to streamline the process. 
i. Will keep a paper form as a backup. 
3) APDC and Historical Commission Merger 
a. Member Sculimbrene met with Kathy Herag. The APDC was approved by State AG in 2015, and 
reapproved after a resubmittal in 2019, which included ‘demolition by neglect’ language.   
b. Previous Town manager (Carter) had a plan to dissolve the APDC and create an Architectural 
Preservation Distract Oversight Committee (APDOC) within the Historical commission. 
c. Town manager requested that all warrant articles be submitted by the end of January. Followed up 
via call, and will be submitted as regular warrant.  Still awaiting a response from Adam Costa, no 
response as of today meeting. 
d. APDC members will be added as alternates to the Historical Commission, consolidating two 
groups (10 and 5 members) into one 10-member body with broader oversight. 
e. Extension of the APDC rules town wide would be easier to implement after the merger.  Moving 
forward with a step-by-step process. 
f. The goal is to maintain a clear breakdown of the required areas of expertise within the future 
APDOC. 
4) Town Hall 
a. One chimney is complete and will be evaluated by Member McGrath.  
5) 763 Mass Ave 
a. No update 
6) 50 Main State 
a. No update 
7) Brochure and mailer 
a. Still on hold 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) Historical Commission update 
a. Phase 1 of the historical survey is complete, met with Historical Society. The team located the 
original project portfolio for the designer. 
2) Mbr Sculimbrene did a tour of T.C. Passios 
a. Building is wasting heat and utilities due to large unused spaces. 
b. Two large boilers in basement, used to heat old high school. 
c. Lions Food pantry is in there, and gym that is used. 
d. The LMC needs to review all occupied and available spaces. 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, March 13, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:28 PM 