===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
  
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
 
 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice- Chairman 
William Tyler , Clerk    
 
Minutes 
November 29, 2018 Meeting 
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:05 pm by Clerk, William Tyler . Chairman May 
was unable to attend due to illness. Other members there were Vice Chair 
Lorraine Mendoza. 
 
Minutes of the October 11, 2018 meeting were read and with no errors or 
omissions, motion made by Com. Mendoza to accept the minutes as written, 
seconded by Com. Tyler , accepted unanimously. 
 
A letter was read into the minutes, from George Reichard who made a $2,500.00 
donation to the Commission for the purpose of signs for both Cemeteries listing 
the Rules and Regs. Supt. Holman will get some quotes for the cost. The 
$2,500.00 will be put in a special account so that we may draw from it to have the 
signs and granite posts purchased. 
 
The Town Manager informed Com. Tyler that the new FaceBook page was up and 
running. He will begin posting photos of past projects and new projects such as 
the new Cemetery building. 
 
The Grant application for the ADA handicap ramp, railings and parking lot at 
North Cemetery was submitted to the Town Manager. She informed us that we 
should hear whether the Grant was approved or not sometime in December . 
 
Discussion on Cemetery rates were passed over until a later time. 
 
The Commissioner signed vouchers for Casella Waste Systems- (dumpster), 
Powell’s (loam and seed), Triumph Modular (storage container) and Lunenburg 
Ledger (add for Columbarium), totaling $1,967.87. 
 
Discussion with Supt. Holman concerning the beginning of construction on the 
new garage on Holman St. After much discussion it was decided to go ahead 
with the foundation portion of the building. The building permit is active until 
April, but the Commission felt that we should not wait until Spring and take 

===PAGE 2===
advantage of the good weather . A motion was made by Com. Mendoza to accept 
the low bid of $6 ,146.00 from R.A. Powell Construction for the excavation work 
needed for the foundation, and a low bid from P .D. Boucher for the foundation 
itself for $7,625.00, seconded by Com. Tyler. With no further discussion the 
motion passed unanimously. 
 
Discussion on the progress of the Fall clean-up at both Cemeteries with Supt. 
Holman. Due the early snow, progress is somewhat behind where it should be. 
With the help of the Worcester County Sheriff’s Dept. hopefully it can be finished 
up soon. 
 
There was discussion on placing an add in the Fitchburg Sentinel for the 
Columbarium. It was decided to wait for the time being. The price will be $50.00 
an insertion. 
 
Com. Tyler attended a meeting of the Charter Review Committed on Nov. 28, 
2018 to submit the proposed changes we had discussed at an earlier meeting. 
There is a Public Hearing on the proposed Charter changes on Jan. 9, 2019. 
 
Lastly, Sandy Chester inquired about the Wreaths Over America , which puts a 
wreath over every Veteran’s grave. With 1,400 veterans it isn’t feasible for us to 
participate. 
 
Next Meeting- Jan 10, 2019 
 
With no further items on the agenda, a motion was made by Com. Mendoza to 
adjourn, seconded by Com. Tyler , with no further discussion meeting was 
adjourned at 9:10 pm. 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
William Tyler , Clerk 