===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Meeting Minutes 
Wednesday, June 12, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA   
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 PM by Chairman, Tyler, other members present were Lorraine 
Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, Cemetery 
Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from May 09, 2019 meeting.  Upon a motion by Chairman, Tyler – to accept the 
minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
 Chairman Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence from anyone.  
Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating, “Yes.”  Jeanne Mayo would like to know if the 
Cemetery Commission would buy back a plot that she owns at this time?  Chairman, Tyler stated that 
the Cemetery Commission does not buy back the plots that have been previously sold.  The owner can 
either donate the lot back to the Cemetery Commission or have another member of the family or friend 
purchase the plot that was sold.  Carol Robbins was sent a brief text from Todd Holman, 
Superintendent regarding the bench that was placed without permission.  This bench is a liability and 
cannot sit where it is at this time.  A solution will be presented face-to-face – granite bench with 
engraving may cost up to $500.00.  The Cemetery Commission will work on a win-win solution for this 
family.  
 
 Chairman Tyler stated that there was nothing new to report on the Cemetery Building – only that the 
building construction must begin before the November 29th timeframe.  The Alumni Association will 
donate a portion of the plaque for Lance May – past Chairman, Cemetery Commissioner.   
 
 Chairman Tyler had a brief discussion regarding decorations and expansions of burial plots in both 
cemeteries.  The last letter was sent certified to Lucia Marcil – regarding the grave site.  Todd Holman, 
Superintendent has taken down the decorations.  Chairman, Tyler has stated – “there will be no more 
certified letters being sent to individuals, as the Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Rules and 
Regulations have been posted at each cemetery and on-line.” 
 
Brief discussion – there were no complaints about the North and South Cemeteries on Memorial Day 
Weekend.  Everything was neat and tidy for this holiday weekend.  Thank you Todd Holman, 
Superintendent, for all your support and help accomplishing this task. 
 
Commissioner Nancy Foss Yasko has been working with Ramaker and the new upgrade software.  
There were a few glitches, but overall – everything went very smoothly.  Commissioner Nancy Foss 
Yasko, will be working with Todd to understand what items have changed in the new upgrade. 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
Further discussions – Chairman Tyler will be reaching out to Jack Rodriquenz, Director of DPW – 
regarding summer help for Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent and what is needed going forward 
for the FY21 Budget for summer help going forward.  There also needs to be a discussion regarding the 
hedges, as they are looking untidy at this time. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman Tyler, 
seconded by Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 8:00 PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  