===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss - Yasko, Clerk 
 
 
Cemetery Commission Minutes 
November 14, 2019 Meeting 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, Ma 
 
 
      The meeting was called to order by Chairman Tyler at 6:30 PM, with 
Commissioners Foss-Yasko and Mendoza and Cemetery Supt. Holman present. 
  
      The only correspondence was from Sharon Clark, who mentioned to the Supt. 
how nice the Cemetery grounds looked. 
 
      Minutes were reviewed from our October 10, 2019 meeting. There were no 
errors or omissions, and a motion was made to accept the minutes and was 
seconded. With no further discussion, it was voted unanimously to accept. 
 
     In Old Business, there was no further work done on the new building, other 
than the outside being painted by Chair Tyler and Supt. Holman. Any material 
that is delivered to the site will be covered and protected for the Winter , if 
construction doesn’t begin soon. The only change to the FY21 Budget was the 
inclusion of the $9600 quote from Lakeview for the hedge work. The Rules and 
Regulation update has been completed and uploaded to the Town website.  
 
    In New Business, vouchers were signed for Maki’s, Concrete Solutions, 
Sentinel add and Casella. The new Ramaker software was discussed, and after a 
lengthy discussion as to how to best proceed with the data entry, it was decided 
to postpone the subject until a later meeting. At the moment, there is $25,183.85 
left in the FY20 appropriation. 
 
     A quote from R. A. Powell Construction was submitted to the DPW Director for 
inclusion into the Capital Plan for FY21. This quote was for the parking lot 
expansion and paving at the North Cemetery Mausoleum and Niche Wall. This 
quote was in the amount of $19,578.00 
 

===PAGE 2===
    The Supt. in his report stated that the prisoners will be at North Cemetery the 
week of November 18 to help with the leaf clean -up. Chair Tyler will send a letter 
of thanks to Sheriff Evangelidis.  
 
    It was decided that the Commission would not meet in December , as is our 
usual policy. The next meeting will be in Jan 2020 at a date TBD.  Commissioner 
Yasko will be remotely participating, as she is out of the area until April. 
 
   With no further business before the Board a motion was made to adjourn and 
duly seconded. With no further discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 8:10 
PM 
 
Respectfully submitted 
William Tyler , Chairman 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 