===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Minutes 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday, March 7, 2019 
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
1023 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA   
7:00 PM 
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM by Chairman Tyler, other members present were Lorraine 
Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, Cemetery 
Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from meetings of February 14th and February 26, 2019.  Upon a motion by Chairman 
Tyler – to accept the minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved 
unanimously.  
 
Commissioner Chairman Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence 
from anyone.  Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating “there was no new 
correspondence at this time.” 
 
Old Business: 
 
Discussion with the possibility of Charter changes from 3 members to 5 members of the Cemetery 
Commission.  Commissioner Chairman Tyler explained that with the Open Meeting Law – it is difficult 
moving forward with only three members.  Commissioner Tyler would speak directly to the Charter to 
see how to proceed with this request.  Commissioners Vice-Chair Mendoza, and Nancy Foss Yasko, 
agreed unanimously.  
 
Discussion on Cemetery building and what the commission’s next steps are.  Commissioner Chairman 
Tyler, is helping with the process of confirming other bids with regards to the building supplies etc.  At 
a later date, the project manager at Monty Tech will be asked to attend a meeting to go over plans 
regarding the time-line and what to except going forward with the creation of this Cemetery building. 
 
Commissioner Nancy Foss Yasko, had a brief discussion on the Cemetery 5-Year Plan.  A draft copy 
was provided to each member to review and discuss changes at future meetings.  This will be an on-
going document until the plan is finalized. 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Chairman, Tyler explained rules of the Lunenburg’s Town Caucus on March 11, 2019.  Commissioner 
Foss Yasko will need to be voted on, so that she may be placed on the Town’s ballot in May, 2019.  
There will be several town residents that will be attending this meeting on behalf of Commissioner 
Nancy Foss Yasko. 
 
New Business: 
 
Discussion on ATM Warrant article – After discussion, a motion was made to appropriate $35,000.00 
from the Sale of Lots Account to fund annual expenses and cost of materials for the new Cemetery  
Building, by Comm. Mendoza. Seconded by Chair Tyler, and voted unanimously in favor. 
 
A brief discussion on Memorial Fund – Lance D. May dedication – the funds will be asked to come from 
the Lunenburg Memorial Fund, Chairman Tyler will send a letter asking for a donation. The 
Lunenburg Alumni Fund is another organization that may be willing to donate as well. 
 
Discussion on proper disposal of duplicated headstones – research is still on-going on the 
proper/respectful way to dispose these headstones.   
 
A brief discussion on Reichart’s generous donation for signage at both the North/South Cemeteries – 
next meeting agree on rules and regulations.  Possible rules to include:  Dogs on leash, no throwing out 
rubbish on cemetery grounds, no dead flowers or dog waste thrown into the woods, open dawn to dusk.  
Research from other towns will be reviewed/discussed on what needs to be included on the new 
Cemetery rules and regulations signs. 
 
Superintendent Holman - nothing new to report at this time. 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman, Tyler, 
seconded by Commissioner Foss Yasko.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 9:05 
PM. 
 
Next meeting will take place on April11, 2019. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  