===PAGE 1===
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission – Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, August 08, 2019 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA   
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 PM by Commissioner Chairman, Tyler, other members present 
were Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  Also present was Todd Holman, 
Cemetery Superintendent. 
 
Minutes were read from June 12, 2019 meeting.  Upon a motion by Chairman, Tyler – to accept the 
minutes as written, seconded by Vice-Chair Mendoza, minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
Chairman, Tyler started the meeting asking if there had been any new correspondence from anyone.  
Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent, replied stating, “Yes.”  Pauline Wells and the Robbs Family 
sent a lovely thank you note to Todd personally.  Chairman, Tyler stated that receiving this kind of 
correspondence is always nice to see.  Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chair, and Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
agreed. 
 
Chairman, Tyler stated that there was nothing new to report on the Cemetery Building at this time.  
Chairman, Tyler and Todd Holman, Superintendent would be meeting with the Masonry Instructor 
from Monty Tech – regarding Phase 1 and what date they would begin in September, 2019?   
 
Chairman, Tyler had a brief discussion on what the official size of a headstone should be in both 
cemeteries – North and South.  The size should be as follows:  32 inches for headstone – 8 inches for the 
base – the total should be not more than 40 inches total.  Motion to approve, Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk 
seconded the vote and were approved unanimously.  
 
Chairman, Tyler stated that the Cemetery Commission may want to include an advertisement in a 
future newspaper for Columbarium Update on Budget.  A motion for $200.00 was approved 
unanimously.  
 
Discussion on if the Cemetery Commission needs to change the website address on our new signs?  The 
motion to not change the website address at this time was approved unanimously.  Chairman, Tyler 
stated that if we have to add rules to the signs, then we can change the address at that time. 
 
Further discussions - Chairman, Tyler will be reaching out to Jack Rodriquenz, Director of DPW – 
regarding summer help for Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent and what is needed going forward 
for the FY21 Budget for summer help going forward.  There also needs to be a discussion regarding the 
hedges, as they are looking untidy at this time. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 | P a g e  
 
 
 
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made to adjourn by Chairman, Tyler, 
seconded by Nancy Foss Yasko, Clerk.  With no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 8:15 PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Nancy Foss Yasko, MBA  
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission, Clerk  