===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss - Yasko, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday, January 16, 2020 - 6:30 pm 
Lunenburg DPW Building Conference Room 
520 Chase Road  
Lunenburg, Ma. 
 
The meeting was called to order by Chair Tyler at 6:30 PM with Commissioners 
Mendoza and Superintendent Holman present. Commissioner Yasko was 
participating remotely.  
 
There was no public comment or correspondence. 
 
The minutes from the November 14, 2019 meeting were reviewed and a motion 
was made to accept as written by Commissioner Mendoza, seconded by Chair 
Tyler . It was voted unanimously by roll call vote to accept. 
 
Under old business it was noted that the ADA Grant Proposal for the handicap 
ramp at North Cemetery was not approved and the Capital Plan request for the 
redesign and paving of the North Cemetery parking lot was ranked number 21 
out of 21 requests. Chair Tyler is going to attend the next CPC meeting to explain 
the request in more detail. 
 
In new business, Selectman Jeffries had inquired about Winter burials in the 
past as to why we don’t bury in the Winter . It was decided to have Chair Tyler 
draft a response to this question which will be discussed at a future meeting. The 
Spring ATM was discussed, pertaining to our annual appropriation. Commission 
members were given figures as to what remains in our FY 20 appropriation and 
what remains to be expended in FY 20. We will discuss at February meeting to 
come to an agreement as to what our FY 21 appropriation will be. Chair Tyler 
noted that the Warrant for ATM opens on January 14th and closes on March 16th. 
The Town Report was also discussed as the submission from the Commission is 
due on February 15th, 2020. Superintendent Holman and Chair Tyler met with 
Police Chief Marino about signage for both Cemeteries on speed limit signs. It 
was decided to have signage noting Safety Zone and speed limit 20mph. Chief 
Marino will follow-up with the DPW Director .  
 
Tentative date for next meeting is February 13th 2020 
 

===PAGE 2===
With no further business before the Commission, a motion was made by 
Commissioner Mendoza to adjourn, seconded by Chair Tyler . On a roll call vote it 
was voted unanimously to adjourn at 7:00 PM 
 
Respectfully submitted 
William Tyler 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 