===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairman 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday, May 20, 2021- 6:30 pm 
Via Zoom 
 
Meeting was opened at 6:30 PM by Chairman Tyler . Commissioners Yasko and 
Dorren were present along with DPW Director Oliva. 
 
There was no public comment. 
 
DPW Director Oliva updated the Commission on the progress in preparing the 
Cemeteries for the upcoming Memorial Day holiday. Crews would be in both 
Cemeteries providing help to the Superintendent to insure they are ready. He 
also discussed the North Cemetery parking lot project, and explained the 
engineered plans were complete and an RFP would be published in the Ledger 
and also distributed to local contractors. There is a critical timeline involved as 
the project needs to be started and finished by the end of the fiscal year in order 
to qualify for the ADA grant of $32,000.00. He also updated the Commission on 
the seasonal positions that were approved at the ATM. Job openings and 
descriptions would be advertised soon. Chair Tyler asked about the timeline for 
getting the hedges at North Cemetery cleaned out and trimmed. Director Oliva 
stated that he would work with the Superintendent to get some bids on the work 
to hopefully be done after July 1st. Lastly, since in person public meetings are 
able to be conducted after June 15th, due to the lifting of Covid 19 restrictions, 
convenient times were discussed, and it was thought that afternoons would be 
the best times. No exact time was set. 
 
The next order of business was to re-organize the board as there is a new 
member . The following seats on the Commission were duly nominated and 
seconded- William Tyler , Chairman- Nancy-Foss Yasko, Vice Chairman and David 
Dorren, Clerk. After a roll call vote, all seats were voted unanimously in favor . 
 
The minutes from the April 22, 2021 meeting were reviewed and with no errors or 
omissions, a motion was made and duly seconded to accept the minutes as 
written. A roll call voted in favor unanimously. 
 
In old business, the dog problem at North Cemetery involving people not picking 
up after their dogs was brought up again, as the problem has begun again after a 
few weeks of it not being an issue. After discussion, it was decided to make 

===PAGE 2===
another public plea on our Facebook page for help in identifying the individual 
responsible, if they happen to see it happening. Video surveillance is an option 
as well that will be researched along with the proper signage. In other old 
business, a thank you letter as sent to the Superintendent of Monty Tech, 
thanking the students and instructors for the great job on the new building. 
 
In new business a voucher was presented to the Commission for authorization to 
pay the following four vendors totaling- $912.95. Lakeview for hydroseeding the 
area around the new building, Needam Electric Supply for wiring to the overhead 
door , Doors Unlimited for remote control device for the same overhead door and 
lastly Unitil for electric service to the building. After July 1, 2021, this electric 
charge will be paid from the DPW Cemetery Supplies account. 
 
The final Cemetery Accounts report for FY 21 from the Financial Director were 
reviewed and discussed. Commission Dorren inquired about donations to the 
Gift account and Chair Tyler thought there would not be any issues involved if a 
donation wanted to be given from another organization. 
 
Tentative date for the next meeting is June 24, 2021 at the DPW Conference 
Room at a time TBD. 
 
With no further items on the agenda, a motion was made and duly seconded to 
adjourn and by roll call vote was affirmative. Meeting was adjourned at 7:51 PM 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
William Tyler , Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 