===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler , Chairman 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
Nancy Foss - Yasko, Clerk 
 
Cemetery Commission Minutes 
April 22, 2021 Meeting 
Via Zoom 
 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 pm by Chairman Tyler, with Commissioners Yasko and Mendoza 
along with DPW Director Oliva present. 
There was no public comment. 
The first order of business was to approve the minutes of the February 18, 2021 meeting. The minutes 
were read and with no additions or corrections, were approved unanimously. 
Director Oliva gave an update to the Commission on the building project and reported that it is essen-
tially done, with the final grading and hydroseeding done recently. The front will be cleaned up when 
time allows, and the container moved to the back of the building. 
The North Cemetery parking lot expansion project is waiting on the final engineering plans, and hope-
fully would be put out to bid soon, as there is a June 30th deadline looming for the grant funding to be 
expended. Director Oliva said he would speak with the Town Manager to see if an extension is possible 
and also to see if we could bypass the bid process and possibly solicit some bids from local contractors. 
Also discussed with the Director was the stump grinding to be completed at the Goodrich family burial 
yard. Once he has a number on the remaining balance in the maintenance budget for the cemeteries, he 
will let us know. 
Chairman Tyler brought up the issue of the grass condition at both cemeteries, as grub damage is preva-
lent in many areas. The possibility of a grub treatment program was discussed, and Director Oliva stated 
that he would work with the Superintendent to come up with a plan. Further plans on restoring the 
grass will be made once the grubs have been eliminated. 
Commissioner Yasko asked about the condition of some of the roads in the cemetery as there are nu-
merous cracks developing. Director Oliva stated that he would take a look at the problem areas and dis-
cuss at a future meeting. 
The cost for the final grading at the Holman St. garage came in at $5900.00. Powell was willing to do the 
work now while they had a window to get it done but will not bill us until after July 1st. The hydroseeding 
was done by Lakeview and cost $700.00 and will have to paid from the FY 21 appropriation. 
Two vouchers, one in the amount of $14,423.93 for the final billing on the garage project that will come 
from the FY 21 appropriation and one for $512.00 for the new cemetery department sign, which will 

===PAGE 2===
come from our gift account, was duly motioned to pay, and voted unanimously. This will leave $1108.67 
in the FY 21 appropriation account and $209.39 left in the gift account. 
An issue involving a dog problem at North Cemetery was discussed pertaining to a certain area that dog 
owners are not picking up after their dog. A camera may be put up to try and get an identity of the per-
son or persons. 
Lastly, Chairman Tyler suggested that we send a letter of thanks to Monty Tech for their help in the con-
struction of the new garage on Holman St. He will draft a letter and discuss at the next meeting. 
Before adjournment, Chairman Tyler thanked Lorraine Mendoza for her 6 years of service to the Com-
mission and the town as she is not running for re-election. Commissioner Yasko echoed those comments 
as well.  
Next meeting to be determined as the Town elections are May 15, 2021 and once a new commissioner 
is sworn in, we will schedule a meeting at which time the Commission will be re-organized. 
Motion to adjourn was made, duly seconded and with no further discussion, meeting was adjourned at 
7:22 pm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
William Tyler, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 