===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
  
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
 
 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice- Chairman 
William Tyler , Clerk 
 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday January 10, 2019 
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
1023 Mass Ave 
Lunenburg, Ma. 
7:00 pm 
 
Meeting was called to order by Comm. Tyler at 7:00 pm. Members present were 
Vice-Chair Lorraine Mendoza, Clerk William Tyler and Supt. Todd Holman. 
 
Public Comment made by Dave Passios noting Comm. Tyler’s comments at the 
BOS meeting regarding the service of the late Lance May and also his remarks at 
the Charter Review Committee public hearing. He also suggested that we look at 
participating in Wreaths Across America next year and volunteered to assist in 
the cleanup. 
 
A letter was received from Patricia Potter , who lives in South Carolina, daughter-
in-law of Howard who died in 1985. They have 6 lots in the South Cemetery and 
requested the Commission to buy back the plots. It is our policy not to buy back 
unused lots, but they can be donated back to the Cemetery. We cannot re-sell 
them.  
Clarence Floyd, who knew Sergeant Kilpi, who has a duplicate headstone found 
at the old Cemetery building, stated he has tried to contact his son with no luck. 
It was decided to wait a month or so and then destroy the stone in accordance 
with protocol. 
 
Reorganization- Comm. Mendoza made a motion to nominate Comm. Tyler to 
Chair the Cemetery Commission. Motion was seconded by Comm. Tyler and 
voted unanimously to appoint Comm. Tyler . 
 
In old business, the foundation for the new garage has been completed, and bids 
for the remainder of the construction will be reviewed and discussed at our next 
meeting. Our FaceBook page is up and running and Comm. Tyler will continue to 
post items of interest. The grant for the handicap access ramp and parking lot 
was not approved, the Town Manager stated that we can apply again, and she 
would advise us when it comes time to submit it. 

===PAGE 2===
 
The FY 2019 budget was reviewed, and vouchers were signed totaling 
$14,707.36. After some discussion, it was decided to re-visit the budget at the 
next meeting when we will have a clearer idea of the rest of the expenses for FY 
2019. Geri Grigas was reimbursed $50.00 for overpayment on engraving their 
niche in the Columbarium. 
 
Supt. Holman gave an update on the Fall cleanup and said both Cemeteries are 
in good shape for the Winter . Beaulac Bros. Landscaping was contracted by the 
DPW to finish the leaf cleanup and a bill of $1500.00 was given to the DPW. Supt. 
Holman also stated he is in the process of compiling the burial records for 
submission to the 2018 Town Report.  
 
Next meeting is Tuesday, Jan 22, 2019 at 6:00 pm for discussion and 
recommendation for appointment to fill the late Lance May’s term until the Town 
election in May. One Talent Bank form submitted by Nancy Foss Yasko. 
Commission will recess and reconvene at the Town Hall for a joint vote with the 
BOS on the appointment at 7:15 pm. 
 
Next regular meeting is Thursday, Feb. 14, 2019 at 7:00 pm at the Lunenburg 
Public Library. 
 
With no further items on the agenda, a motion was made by Chairman Tyler to 
adjourn, seconded by Comm. Mendoza. Meeting was adjourned at 9:05 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Lorraine Mendoza, Vice-Chairman 
 
 
 
 