===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler, Chairperson 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairperson 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday June 30, 2022 
 
 
Meeting called to order at 2:30pm.  In Attendance was Chairperson William Tyler, Vice-
Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko and Clerk David Dorren  
 
No Public Comment 
 
Chairperson Tyler started the meeting with the May 26, 2022 minutes.  Motion was 
made by VP Nancy Foss-Yasko to approve the minutes.  Seconded by Clerk David 
Dorren.  Vote was passed 3-0. 
 
The topic of Petroleum smell at the North Cemetery was discussed.  VP Nancy Foss-
Yasko talked to the Lunenburg Fire Chief.  They both still smelled a light scent of 
Petroleum.  They both also saw a dead bird in the drain within the cemetery.  The State 
will pick up the tab this time for the clean-up in the Cemetery and the property where 
the spill occurred. They considered this case closed but will reopen it again if necessary. 
 
The topic was discussed about writing grants for both the North and South Cemeteries.  
Clerk David Dorren stated he has spoken to Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg Town Manager 
regarding the options available to the Cemetery Commission on State or Foundation 
funding for the Cemetery.  Heather stated she would be willing to apply for State Grants 
for the Cemetery Commission if we get the necessary information to her by September.  
The Cemetery Commission decided to get the information together for the Town 
Manager regarding a grant for redoing the turf in the North Cemetery.  The Vice-Chair 
also suggested talking to Tanner Cole regarding the Turf and Shrubs for the cemeteries. 
Motion was passed 3-0  
 
The first part of the hedges along Holman Street to the first driveway of the North 
Cemetery was trimmed and cleaned.  Depending on the budget for the coming year the 
hedges will be done from road entrance to road entrance at the North Cemetery.   
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday June 30, 2022 
Page 2 
 
 
 
Cemetery Rules and Regulations Chapter 310-3 and Chapter 310-4 were reviewed and 
rewritten by the Cemetery Commission.  
 
Clerk Dorren made a motion to adjourn seconded by Vice-Chair Nancy Foss-Yosko.  
Meeting adjourned at 4pm 
 
Respectfully submitted by 
David Dorren, Clerk  
 