===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler, Chairperson 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairperson 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Thursday July 21, 2022 
 
 
Meeting called to order at 2:30pm.  In Attendance was Chairperson William Tyler, Vice-
Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko,  Clerk David Dorren and DPW Director Bill Bernard 
 
No Public Comment 
 
Chairperson Tyler started the meeting with the June 30, 2022 minutes.  Motion was 
made by David Dorren to approve the minutes.  Seconded by Nancy Foss-Yasko.  Vote 
was passed 3-0. 
 
Chairperson Tyler needed approval on vouchers to be paid.  Nancy Foss-Yasko made a 
motion to approve the vouchers.  David Dorren seconded the motion.  Passed and 
signed 3-0. 
 
 
The topic of Petroleum smell at the North Cemetery was discussed.  VP Nancy Foss-
Yasko discussed the situation on where it stands today.  There is still a small smell of 
Petroleum around the drain area in the front part of the North Cemetery.  There is also a 
dead bird in the drain.  The property owner on the corner of Holman Street did have an 
auction to remove the automobiles.  Some of them were sold and part of the area was 
cleaned up. The case is considered closed by the Lunenburg Fire Chief but will reopen it 
again, if necessary, in the future.  
 
 
The next topic for discussion was the Goodrich Burial Yard.  A stone fence will be 
constructed at the cemetery.  The Cemetery Commission will pay for the Surveyor and 
the stones.  Richard McGrath (the stone mason) has said he will volunteer his time and 
labor.  DPW Bill Bernard will contact the surveyor and will email the surveyors cost to the 
Cemetery Commission.  Chairperson Bill Tyler sent the abutter a letter of the Cemetery 
Commissions plan to put up the stone wall.  Research shows there are 12 Burials at the 
Cemetery even though there are only 4 Headstones.  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission 
Page 2                       
 
 
 
Chairperson Tyler discussed the Turf Restoration and Hedge work at the North 
Cemetery.  Chairperson Tyler suggested getting a rough cost (estimate) of replacing the 
turf and doing the Hedge work at the North Cemetery so it will be earmarked for the 
2024 Capital Plan and Grant money.  A call will be placed to Tanner Cole from Gatsby 
Grounds and to Mark Bursch from Lakeview Nursery.  
 
 
VP Nancy Foss-Yosko made a motion to adjourn the meeting; Seconded by Clerk David 
Dorren.  Vote Passed 3-0    Meeting adjourned at 4pm.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted by 
David Dorren, Clerk  
 