===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler, Chairperson 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairperson 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Lunenburg Public Library Conference Room 
Thursday, May 26, 2022  2:30 PM 
 
Meeting called to order at 2:35pm.  In Attendance was Chairperson William Tyler, Vice-
Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko and Clerk David Dorren  
 
No Public Comment 
 
First topic of discussion was to approve the minutes of March 1st and April 20th.  
Commissioner Dorren made the motion to approve said minutes.  VP Yasko seconded the 
motion.  Minutes were approved 3-0 
 
Commissioner Dorren brought up the topic of raising more money in the form of Grants 
for the Cemetery Commission to use for: 
 
Old mausoleum, Repair of stone walls, Turf in North Cemetery, Head stones in North and 
South Cemeteries (especially our veterans), Roadways that are in disrepair and 
cameras.  It was suggested that Commissioner Dorren initiate a conversation with 
Heather R. Lemieux , Town Manager since she has had experience in grant writing .   
VP Yasko also suggested talking to Tanner Cole about the cost of redoing the turf 
and the shrubs.   Motion was passed 3 -0. 
 
The topic of a Petroleum Odor at the North Cemetery was discussed. All Local and State 
Departments have been notified, however, as a Commission it is our responsibility to 
ensure that the Commission and the Town are protected from future environmental 
concerns. Ms. Yasko has volunteered to be the point of contact with Chief Sullivan and 
the DEP. She will report back to the Commission on a regular basis to give us updates on 
the situation.  
 
Chapter 310-2 of the Cemetery Rules and Regulations were discussed.  It was decided to 
leave all paragraphs in place except for paragraph 3 which would be moved to section 
310-1.  That paragraph read: 
Full and Cremation burials and Columbarium interments on Saturday are $500.00 for the 
first 4 hours and $500.00 for the next 4 hours.    
 

===PAGE 2===
Motion was made to adjourn by Chairperson Tyler and seconded by VP Yasko . 
Meeting was Adjourned at 3:50 pm 
 
Respectfully submitted by 
David Dorren, Clerk   