===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, November 30, 2023 – 9:00 AM
Lunenburg Public Library
Suldonik Conference Room
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.
9:00 AM – Call to Order – The Cemetery Commission Meeting was called to order at 9:06 AM – by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other 
members present were David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk.  Bill Bernard, DPW Director and Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent 
were unable to attend and not present.  Public attendance were John Bowen and Jeanmarie Price.
1. Public Comment – John Bowen stood up to make a motion that the Cemetery Commission should be on time – we were six 
minutes late.  Made another motion about the clarification on the words – “watch out” – Cemetery Commission, Chair, Nancy 
Foss-Yasko stated as Mr. Bowen’s demeanor was confrontational toward the Chair. The Cemetery Commission Chair, advised 
Mr. Bowen that he had three minutes to make his Public Comment.  He asked for an extension, which was not granted the first 
time.  Mr. Bowen keep arguing and the second extension was granted.  Mr. Bowen spoke rapidly to the Commission, regarding 
many topic’s that he expressed his concern with.  They are as follows:  oil spill (Spring of 2022), local 39 bargaining agreement 
for the DPW, abolishing the Cemetery Commission, and Cemetery Commission should meet at night and at Town Hall.  Many 
allegations were made to the Cemetery Commission, Chair.  Starting with: calling the State on the possible oil/gas leak into the 
Cemetery at North Cemetery; issues with the DPW members; hiring a third-party landscaping company; bench placed into the 
North Cemetery; dog issues within the cemetery – owner lives on Highland Street; putting camera’s into place; abuse by the 
Cemetery Commission on building and putting an article in the Lunenburg Ledger for support with a New England Rustic Field-
Stone Wall – low maintenance; taking work away from DPW employee’s because of low maintenance; Rules and Regulations 
are not part of the bylaws; the word sole should not be used in our Charter and Cemetery Commission Rules and Regulations. 
The Cemetery Commission Chair, allowed Mr. Bowen to speak from 9:06AM – 9:20AM – 14 minutes.  The Cemetery 
Commission Chair, asked Mr. Bowen to leave the meeting, because the Chair and the Commission felt unsafe with Mr. Bowen’s 
demeanor toward each member. The Chair stepped out to the hallway to call the Select Board Assistant at the Town, which then 
called the police.  When the Chair returned to the room, a motion was made to adjourned the meeting at 9:25AM – Chair was 
gone for two minutes to make the call.  Mr. Bowen quickly got up from his chair to leave the adjourned Cemetery Commission 
Meeting – once Mr. Bowen was told that the police were on their way to the Cemetery Commission Meeting.  The Cemetery 
Commission had a brief recess before Reconvening at 9:54 AM.
2. DPW Director Updates – were sent in a prior e-mail and will be further discussed at our next meeting on January 04, 2024 – 
Sudolnik Conference Room – 9:00 AM – 12:00 AM
3. Discuss Open Items – Cemetery Commission
a. Burials Information from North and South Cemeteries.
b. Copy of Burial Rights Agreement.
c. Validation of mowing hours – 3,952 (stated at Town Meeting) vs. 2,770 (DPW revised).
d. Leaf/raking blowing hours – North and South Cemeteries. Break-out of numbers from DPW vs. outside participants.
e. Cemetery closing protocol.
f. Next Steps for the 2024 Season.
g. Capital Planning Meetings.
h. Ramaker updates and concerns.
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk

===PAGE 2===
4. Review & Approve Minutes
a. 10/19 Meeting Minutes – Motion Passed 2 to 0
b. 10/31 Meeting Minutes – Motion Passed 2 to 0
5. Future Meeting Schedule
a. Third Thursday of each month – Month of December there will be no Cemetery Commission Meeting– in respect for the many 
holiday celebrations within the month of DECEMBER.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren.  With no further 
discussion, meeting was adjourned at 1:20 PM – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Clerk
Electronic Signatures