===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation 
Restoration of North Cemetery Boundaries
Cemetery Commission - Town Hall Meeting
September 26, 2023
          Presented by:  Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair

===PAGE 2===
2 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
The CEMETERY COMMISSION stood before the Select Board 
Members and Town Manager to Present Recovery Options to Repair 
the North Cemetery Boundary and Request Funding from the 
American Rescue Plan Act. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Bottom Line Up Front (BLUF):
● The current condition of the 100 year-old Arborvitae Hedge Boundary – needs to be 
restored to preserve the Peace, Tranquility and Honor contained within the North 
Cemetery.
● Replacement cost of Hemlock Hedges are estimated at approximately $185K.
● Replacement hedges will need additional electricity, water, and yearly maintenance, which 
will raise the life-cycle cost significantly.
● Preferred Solution – Permanent New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall – estimated cost at 
approximately $288K to $388K.  This reduces the life-cycle cost associated with this asset.
● The CEMETERY COMMISSION recommended to the Select Board Members to move 
forward with securing from the American Rescue Plan Act – significant funding for a New 
England Rustic Field-Stone Wall vs Hemlock Hedges.
===PAGE 4===
4 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Facts:
● North Cemetery 100 year-old Arborvitae Hedges were severely pruned in 2023.
● Following the pruning, several licensed and professional arborists were called in by the 
Cemetery Commission to make recommendations regarding the recovery options to the 
100 year-old Arborvitae Hedges.
● Recommendations were simple – because of the lack of historical maintenance and 
limited access to water, the landmark hedges are likely beyond recovery.  Arborists 
advised not to put good money toward working to improve their health, due to an 
expected poor outcome, and instead recommend removing them.
===PAGE 5===
5 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Facts:
● Replacement cost of Hemlock Hedges are estimated at approximately $185K.
● Anderson Landscape Construction Horticulture Preservation walked the Cemetery 
Commission and DPW Director through this process.
● Recommendation and estimate provided to install and plant 173 young trees up to 6 – 7 
feet tall.  Extraction and disposal of stumps, set in new planting bed with mulch and 
watering allowance for one season.  Key Note:  three seasons of water needs to be 
complete, which is going to be cost prohibitive – due to lack of water and irrigation at 
the North Cemetery.
● Complete estimate from Anderson Landscape Construction Horticulture Preservation 
has been provided and given to each Select Board Member and Town Manager for 
review.
===PAGE 6===
6 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Facts and Concerns:
● Additional Cost for newly planted Hemlock trees.
● Having 173 newly planted Hemlock trees will cost a significant amount of money for both 
the watering and maintenance care of these trees for three years, and beyond.  One year 
of watering will cost the Cemetery Commission and DPW – estimated at $3K.  This will 
raise the life-cycle cost significantly.
● There is no electricity at the North Cemetery for required well pump to water new plants.  
Both of these requirements will require additional funding.
● North Cemetery cannot handle the water flow for the additional amount of water needed 
to keep these newly planted trees alive.  Additional cost of $25K or more for a well to be 
drilled.  This does not include the cost for a pump, piping and electricity.  A possible 
solution is tie into the water system on Highland Street – cost and feasibility to be 
determined.
===PAGE 7===
7 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Preferred Solution:
● Permanent New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall – estimated range at approximately 
$288K to $388K, which reduces the life-cycle cost associated with this asset.
● Ramsden Stone Walls and Waterproofing, LLC – provided an estimate of a free-standing 
New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall at North Cemetery.
● Highlights Include:  removal of nearly 1,000 linear feet of large hedges, disposal of 
hedges and stumps, excavation and installation of crushed stone footing, measuring 36 
inches wide with a minimum depth of 12 inches deep, a 6,180 square face feet of free-
standing rustic semi formal dry, stacked – New England Field-Stone Wall at $40.00 per 
face feet.
● Complete estimate from Ramsden Stone Walls and Waterproofing, LLC – has been 
provided and given to each Select Board Member and Town Manager for review.
===PAGE 8===
8 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Request:
● $350K for Restoration of North Cemetery Boundaries.
● The CEMETERY COMMISSION would like to advocate for the North Cemetery with her 
beauty and tranquility from within.
● Building a New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall will complement the already free-standing 
stone walls from within her boundaries.
● Many Lunenburg Town Families and Veterans have long passed and are at their final 
resting place.  This design honors their contributions to our Town, and provides lasting 
beautification for at least the next 300 hundred years.
● The CEMETERY COMMISSION will support the Select Board request to use the 
Stabilization Fund at this Fall’s Town Meeting, so more funds are available for ARPA 
Distribution. 
===PAGE 9===
9 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Wall
● Wall initial outlay for project full funding.
● Little to no maintenance or additional costs over 
time.
● Usable life span estimate 100 plus years, more 
likely 200+.
● Significantly less vulnerability to storm and 
weather damage.
● Minimal to no impact of inflation for ongoing costs.
● Model shows estimated wall break even in year 16 
vs hedge costs.
● Aesthetically the wall blends in nicely to the 
existing wall boundaries.
▬ Hedges
● Hedge replacement require ongoing costs for annual 
maintenance and failure/replacement over time.
● Additional project costs and expense associated with 
maintaining living hedge – include providing water 
source (well to be drilled), pump house to support 
well, electricity installed to support the well pump and 
annual electric billing.
● Usable life span estimate with professional 
maintenance 50 – 75 years – then replace again.
● Subject to storm and weather damage as well as 
insect and disease vulnerability – requiring 
replacement of sections.
● Financial impact of inflation on maintenance costs 
over anticipated life span are significant and will be 
borne by the tax payers.
===PAGE 10===
10 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Life Cycle Cost (LCC) Analysis:
● Definition – Life Cycle Cost means considering all the costs that will be incurred during the lifetime of 
the product, work or service:  Purchase price and all associated costs.
● Life cycle costing provides an estimate of the cost that an asset will incur in its lifetime.  Life cycle 
costing calculation generally involves adding six types of costs; purchase costs, maintenance costs, 
operational costs, financing costs, depreciation costs, and end-of-life costs.
● Life Cycle Cost incorporates a model to help examine the total cost of the Wall or Hedge installation.
● Life Cycle Cost is using a 3.0% annual inflation factor based on historical run rates, current data and 
estimated future factors.
● Then Year Costs or Future Dollars – is a financial term that means the cost reflects the money as it is 
spent including the eﬀects of inflation.  For this model purposes the base year is 2024.
● Current Dollars – income in the year in which a person, household, or family receives it.  For example, 
the income someone received in 1989 UN-adjusted for inflation is in current dollars.
===PAGE 11===
11 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation – 
Bottom Line at the End
▬ Wall
● One time sunk cost little to no ongoing expense 
for maintenance.
● Risk is mitigated by permanent infrastructure.
● Virtually impervious by weather, climate, external 
factors and budgetary shortfalls.  
● Significantly less risk in lean budget years.
● Inflation / Consumer Price Index (CPI) is virtually 
eliminated saving taxpayer dollars in ongoing 
maintenance.
● Wall will aesthetically blend in with the historical 
environment and existing boundary walls.
● Break even at year 16.
▬ Hedges
● Maintenance over a finite life span – then disposal 
and replacement costs – subject to Then Year 
costs.
● Inflation will escalate costs over the life of the 
hedge growth – increased taxes to cover 
maintenance, disposal and replacement expense.
● When years are revenue lean hedge maintenance 
will receive low priority or be deferred for years.
● Delayed maintenance escalates risk of damage.
● Risk is elevated by weather, climate change, 
animals, plant disease and improper 
maintenance.
===PAGE 12===

===PAGE 13===
13 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ Wall spread sheet model assumptions:
● New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall (item 1) is a one time sunk cost with no ongoing associated costs projected.
● Components of (item 2) are based on contractors and vendors estimates, not quotes.
● Failure rate  is the cost dollars to cover the estimated risk of environmental factors and other horticultural events that may 
occur.
● Installation of living hedges assumes a requirement for water, which must be drawn from a newly constructed deep well.
● To enable the deep well, electricity must be provided – including the required housing and infrastructure to support this 
commodity.
● A risk contingency factor is included as common with all construction projects to mitigate risks that may arise (i.e. well depth, 
ledge, etc.)
● Electric power will consume minimal Kw hours, however, there is a monthly fee to be paid even if there is little to no usage 
included.
● A Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation factor of 3.0% is calculated for all ongoing annual costs.
● The 3.0% inflation adjusted annual amount is used in place of the Current Total dollars when expressing the Then year amounts.
● Professional hedge trimming costs are represented by amortizing a 3 - 4 year expense at $500.00 expense every year – trimming 
may be required at 3 – 4 year intervals at estimated $2,000.00 per incident.
===PAGE 14===
14 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
The CEMETERY COMMISSION would like to ask for the Lunenburg 
Community Support for the Restoration of North Cemetery 
Boundaries – by building a New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall.  
You can do your part by getting out to Vote on 
November 14, 2023 – 7:00 PM
===PAGE 15===
15 
Lunenburg Cemetery Commission Presentation
▬ A Special Thank-You:
● The CEMETERY COMMISSION would like to show their appreciation to the following individuals and 
establishments:
● Select Board Members  – allowing the Cemetery Commission to present this presentation during your weekly Town Meeting a 
few weeks ago.
● Stan Dillis – Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group
● Jeﬀ Schwarz – Alphagraphics - Shirley
● Fred Anderson – Anderson Landscape Construction Horticulture Preservation
● Brett Ramsden – Ramsden Stone Walls and Waterproofing, LLC
● Matt May – Lakeview Landscaping & Irrigation
● Mark Flagg – M Flagg Tree Service/Arborist
● Central Mass Gardens
● Einstein’s Solution
● David Dorren – Vice-Chair & Clerk, Cemetery Commission
● Bill Bernard – DPW, Director