===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, August 24, 2023 – 2:00 PM
Lunenburg Public Library
1023 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA
Suldonik Conference Room
9:00 AM – The Cemetery Commission Meeting was called to order at 2:07 PM by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other members present 
were David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk.  Also present was Bill Bernard, DPW Director.
Public Comment – Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair asked if there was any Public Comment?  There was none.
DPW Director Updates – Discussion on the length of the bench that was accepted by the Select Board on Tuesday, August 22, 2023. 
Bill Bernard, DPW Director wanted to suggest that the Cemetery Commission only accepts a 3 foot bench vs. a 4 foot bench. 
Unfortunately, the Cemetery Commission is not in agreement, as many benches that have been placed in the North Cemetery are 
between the 3 – 4 foot benches.
Discussions continue regarding the Beaulac Brothers, and thoughts going forward with recent pruning of the Arborvitae Hedges.  The 
Cemetery Commission requests moving forward, that the commission is informed ahead of time of any future trimming, pruning or 
tree removal in all cemeteries.  The DPW allocates $22K for work in the cemeteries.  Taking the amount out of the budget for the 
trimming/pruning, leaves an amount of $12K. In addition, allocation has been put aside for $18K for seasonal workers.  Note:  DPW 
has not been able to fill this role as of this date.
Brief discussion with DPW Director, Bill Bernard – holidays that all cemeteries need to look their best for.  They are as follows:  
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day and Veterans Day.  A decision needs to be agreed upon regarding an outside 
contracting/landscaping company to take care of the mowing/trimming going forward.
The Cemetery Commission made a motion to not allow Beaulac Brothers into the North and South Cemeteries, which was approved 
unanimously.  The DPW Director, Bill Bernard was not in agreement, but asked the Cemetery Commission to e-mail him other 
landscaping companies to choose from.
A motion was presented to accept Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko as primary contact and permission to speak on behalf for the Cemetery 
Commission.  Therefore, giving the Chair the authority to move forward within the Cemetery Commission and combined DPW 
projects.  The Cemetery Commission motion was approved and accepted unanimously.
Minutes were read/reviewed from the meeting of August 10, 2023.  Upon a motion by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko – to accept the 
minutes as written, with changes on spelling errors of Bernard, DPW Director; seconded by Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren, 
minutes were approved unanimously.
Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren had Fred Anderson from Anderson Landscaping attend our meeting to discuss findings and 
solutions for our 100+ year old hedges.  Several suggestions and recommendations were made during this cemetery meeting.  Fred’s 
professional opinion was that the Arborvitae Hedges were at their “end of life.”  The lack of maintenance and proper trimming 
throughout the years, have cause these hedges to grow somewhat to the side and not straight up.
Plan was discussed with replacement of these hedges, but water may be an issue – due to lack of water flow in the North Cemetery.  
These hedges will need three season’s of water trucked into the North Cemetery to keep them alive.  Planting 270+ hedges was 
suggested.  First estimate cost was:  $167 - $187K.  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk

===PAGE 2===
The Cemetery Commission asked the question about another scenario – what about building a wall?  Cheaper in the long run, as a one 
time cost with no on-going maintenance needed.  A win-win solution for both the DPW and Cemetery Commission.
The Cemetery Commission and the DPW thanked Fred for his time and insight regarding this matter.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren.  With no further 
discussion, meeting was adjourned at 4:35 PM.
Next meeting will take place on September 14, 2023.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Clerk
Electronic Signatures