===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
Cemetery Commission 
 
William Tyler, Chairperson 
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Vice-Chairperson 
David Dorren, Clerk 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Tuesday, January 10, 2023 
 
 
Meeting was called to order at 1:05pm.  In attendance was Chairman Bill Tyler, Vice 
Chairperson Nancy Foss-Yasko, Clerk David Dorren and DPW Superintendent Todd 
Holman. 
 
Superintendent Holman started the meeting by bringing up the following topics. 
1. Helen Balcom will continue to plant the flowers at the entrance of the North and 
South Cemeteries for the 2023 fiscal year.  Helen will not do the watering. 
 
2. Danielle Peterson will do the watering for the flowers at the North and South 
Cemeteries. 
 
3. The Outhouse expenses at the North Cemetery will be paid for by the DPW. 
 
4. Remaining Hedge trimming at the North Cemetery will be contracted out by the 
DPW and come out of the DPW budget.  
 
5. There are 60-80 plots left in the North Cemetery and 34 plots left in the South 
Cemetery 
 
Chairman Tyler discussed the Capital Funding and the State Community Project Funding.  
The Headstones and Turf projects will be submitted to both the Capital Funding and the 
State Community Project Funding.  Fixing the Walls will be submitted to the State 
Community Project Funding.   
 
Vice Chairperson Yasko submitted a proposal from Central Mass Gardens on rebuilding 
and reconstructing the walls at the North and South Cemeteries.   
 
Vice Chairperson Yasko also submitted a letter to go to Representative Michael 
Kushmerek regarding the earmarks for the Community Project Funding.  
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 
Cemetery Commission Meeting 
Tuesday, January 10, 2022 
 
                                                                                                               Page 2         
 
 
 
 
 
Chairman Tyler discussed the Cherry Hill Cemetery Stone Wall will be done by Richard 
McGrath. 
  
 
Vice Chairperson Yasko made a motion to accept the minutes of Tuesday 12/20/22.  
David Dorren 2nd the motion.  Passed 3-0 
 
 
Motion made by Vice Chairperson Yasko to adjourn meeting at 2:30pm; seconded by 
Clerk Dorren.  Motion passed 3-0 
 
 
Next meeting set for February 14, 2023 at 1pm.  
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
David Dorren, Clerk 
  
   