===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, May 16, 2024 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.  Is there anyone today that wishes to record this meeting with their own 
devices?
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  
Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to give your Public Comment.
9:02 AM – Call to Order – The Cemetery Commission Meeting was called to order at 9:02 AM by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other 
members present were David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Michael Clark, Clerk.  Also present in attendance was Bill Bernard, DPW 
Director.  Public attendance:  David Rogers and David Passios.
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko asked that everyone stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
No Recording by the Audience.
Public Comments:  Mr. David Rogers mentioned that the Town Charter was convoluted.  Is anyone taking car of the lawns at the 
cemeteries in Lunenburg?  Where are the flags at the North Cemetery for Memorial Day?
Mr. David Passios echoed Mr. Rogers comments stating that the Charter and By Laws are a total mess.  They reflect no improvements in 
policy on Parks and Cemeteries.
The Chair, Foss-Yasko asked the public for their comments on the cemetery conditions going into Memorial Day weekend.  She then 
read a letter that she received from one of the former Lunenburg residents regarding conditions of the North Cemetery when visiting her 
late husband’s grave.  Michael Clark and David Dorren, spoke on their summation of the current conditions. 
The DPW Director, Bernard stated he spoke with the person that the Chair related to over the phone and addressed some of her concerns. 
The Chair reiterated the need to address community members’ concerns. 
The DPW Director Bernard briefed the commission on Spring cleanup work and daily work since April 8, 2024.
1) Flag Raising, Stream monitoring, grass mowing began this week.
2) Bill reached out to six landscape companies to get pricing.  Lakeview was best price, others had availability, two not available, 
one would not give price.  The DPW went on an hourly rate rather then a fixed price.
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair
Michael Clark, Clerk

===PAGE 2===
3) Started work this week at the North Cemetery, weed whacking by the Department of Corrections – postponed due to rain.
4) DPW will have the Cemeteries in shape for Memorial Day weekend.
5) One mower with a blown motor.
6) Will have available two big mowers to use.
7)  Six burials and two cremations since April 8, 2024.
8) Two seasonal workers need to be approved.
Resident – Mr. Rogers questioned on what the duties are for the Cemetery Superintendent since before this Superintendent the previous 
person did all the cemeteries, and keep them in great shape. 
The Vice-Chair, Dorren discussed that the pumps need work, had a hard time with them.  The DPW Director, Bernard discussed that they
may need to be primed.
The Clerk, Clark asked on the man hours to mow.  The DPW Director, Bernard replied that it takes 40 hours in North Cemetery and 20 
hours in the South Cemetery. A week and a half in total.  
The Chair, Foss-Yasko stated that she will meet with the DPW Director, Bernard to review the maintenance plan.
The DPW Director, Bernard stated that the American Flags for our Veterans will be going up next week.
The Vice-Chair, Dorren made a motion to accept the April 26th meeting minutes, Commissioner Michael Clark, seconded the motioned:  
motion passed 3-0.
The Chair, Foss-Yasko discussed Lakeview’s quote to trim shrubs at South Cemetery - $2,625.00.  The Town Manager reviewed and 
requested a more detailed description change.  DPW Director, Bernard asked if this is the right time of year to prune?  Chair, Foss-Yasko 
will follow-up with Lakeview.  Commissioner Michael Clark, would like to review the shrubs with this in mind.  Chair, Foss-Yasko will 
make a motion to approve at the June’s meeting.
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko spoke with a family member that would like to add an additional stone to their family grave-site in South 
Cemetery.  The DPW Director, Bill Bernard reviewed and state that we can accommodate this.  Vice-Chair, David Dorren made a motion
to allow the second headstone on the family grave-site.  Commissioner Clark, seconded the motion.  Motion was passed 3-0.  The Chair 
will contact the family.
The Chair, Foss-Yasko, said another family would like to add a memorial on their gravestone for a member not interned.  Members 
discussed the proposal, and concluded that there is no issue with the cemetery rules to add the inscription. 
Topic of flowers was brought up for the front entrance of North and South Cemeteries – current person stepping away – due to lack of 
watering help.
The DPW Director, Bernard will reach out to Lakeview to see if they can accommodating planting flowers for both entrances. 
The Chair Foss-Yasko, asked the Commission if we are all in agreement to pay for the flowers for North and South Cemeteries for no 
more than $500.00.  Vice-Chair, Dorren made a motion to have Lakeview provide the planting of flowers, up to $500.00; Commissioner 
Michael Clark, seconded the motion.  Motion passed 3-0.  DPW Director, Bernard stated the DPW will be providing water for the season.
The Chair, Foss-Yasko discussed solar lights for the flags at both North and South Cemeteries.  DPW Director, Bernard will reach out to 
their electrician.  We will discuss more about this at our next meeting.
Other topics briefly discussed and tabled until the next meeting included:
Stone maintenance, 2800 stones, 1000 need to be repaired, skirt in South Cemetery needs to be completed.
Fish Street – the labor will be donated: Cemetery Commission will buy supplies for gate and wall to be started and completed in   
Fall/2024.
Discussed Maintenance Plan – grub control, weed killer, fertilizer, loam, over-seeding.  The DPW Director, Bill Benard stated the 
Pesticides and Herbicides require a license, which the Town does not have.  A consultant last year recommended price of $50K. 
Commissioner Michael Clark, asked what is the School Departments field maintenance plan look like?  Do they have a schedule and 
licenses?  DPW Director, Bernard will look into this.
===PAGE 3===
Future Meeting Schedule
Thursday, June 20, 2024.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Foss-Yasko, seconded by Clerk, Michael Clark.  With no further discussion, meeting was 
adjourned at 10:35 AM – Motion Passed 3 to 0.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair
Michael Clark, Clerk
Electronic Signatures