===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
         MEETING NOTICE
Thursday, April 25, 2024 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
AGENDA
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice.  Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person 
meeting.  Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the 
meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law.  
Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance 
accordingly.
Remote Participation – Join Zoom Meeting:  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353?omn=86802399693 – Meeting ID:  792 737 0353
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to 
give your Public Comment – Thank you…
9:00 AM – Call to Order
1. Public Comment
2. Review and Approve Minutes from March 14th and 19th 2024 meetings.
3. Historical Commission – Richard McGrath – discuss steps in preserving, protecting and development of the walls within 
Lunenburg Cemeteries.
4. Presentation and Discussion – Town of Lunenburg Fiscal Rules and Regulations Presentation/Cemetery Commission – Director
of Municipal Finance/Town Accountant, Ezequiel Ayala
a. Cemetery Sale of Lots Refund’s – must be voted and approved on by Cemetery Commission.
5. Discussion of re-organization of the Cemetery Commission – must be voted and approved.
6. DPW Director Updates and Discussions.
7. Discuss Open Items/Upcoming Projects.
a. Next Steps for the 2024 Season – DPW Maintenance Plan.
b. Ramaker – New Features/Next Steps and insight of all open graves for six family members together in a row.
8. Future Meeting Schedule – Third Thursday of each month – May 16, 2024.
9. Adjourn
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk
Michael Clark, Member
