===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, April 25, 2024 – 9:00AM
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.  Is there anyone today that wishes to record this meeting with their own 
devices?
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  
Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to give your Public Comment.
9:00 AM – Call to Order – by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other members present were David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk; Michael 
Clark, Member; Ezequiel Ayala JR., Finance Director/Town Accountant. Not present were Bill Bernard, DPW Director and Todd 
Holman, Cemetery Superintendent.  Public attendance were John Bowen, Jeanmarie Price, Dave Rogers and Richard McGarth, Chair of
Lunenburg Historical Commission.
The Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko asked that everyone stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. John Bowen announced to the Commission 
that they were videoing today’s meeting.  
In public comments, Mr. Bowen again stated on why the Cemetery Commission should not decide which contractors should be allowed 
to be hired to do work at the cemetery based on what they have accomplished in the past.  Mr. Bowen also continued to state that the 
Cemetery Commission should be abolished/dissolved even though it is approved by the Charter.  Mr. Bowen noted that he is running as a
write-in for the Commission, and is requesting the support of a 501(c)(3).
Mr. David Rogers stated in public comment that he will give notice in writing to the chair on his topics he would like to discuss at a 
future cemetery commission meeting.
Finance Director/Town Accountant Ezequiel Ayala, Jr., discussed the new Town of Lunenburg’s Turnover Policy – (Town of Lunenburg
Fiscal Rules and Regulations Presentation) – going in front of the Select-Board for their thoughts and approval. Mr. Ayala also went over
the procedure regarding the Cemetery Commissions Funds – discussing and laying out the Purpose:
Sale of Lots – Fund 8115
Capital Article – Fund 3006
Cemetery Perpetual Care Trust Fund
Principal – Fund 8001
Interest – Fund 8000
Cemetery Gift – Fund 1548
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk
Michael Clark, Member

===PAGE 2===
Any expenses such as refund of the sale of lots, must be approved by and signed off by the Cemetery Commission before payment can be
made by the Finance Director.
Mr. Ayala was thanked for giving the Cemetery Commission and the public the overview of the Town’s Revenue Turnover Policy and 
the procedures going forward.
Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko brought up that two families of the town were relocating, one family had hardship, and asked the town to 
refund the grave lots they purchased.  In a vote of 3-0 the Cemetery Commission approved the refund.
Richard McGarth, Chair of the Historical Commission discussed the following:
1. West Street Terrace – Lost family cemetery – farm was sold and developers destroyed some graves that were on the farm.  Historical 
Commission trying to set up a memorial with granite curbing.
2. Fish Street – Richard has been working with the Cemetery Commission for last two years to set up a stone wall and gate around the 
Fish Street Cemetery.  Richard said plans are in the works to start and finish this in the Fall of 2024.
3. The North and South Street Cemeteries forms have been filled out to show what is and is not part of the Historical Commission.  If the 
Cemetery Commission is looking for grants to complete projects they should try the Community Preservation Act and grants from the 
Veteran Administration.  The North, South and Fish Street Cemeteries needs to be researched and make sure that they are already entered
onto the National Registers of Historic places.
In a 3-0 vote the Cemetery Commission voted the Commissioners for the Year 2024 – 2025 to be:  Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair; David 
Dorren, Vice-Chair; Michael Clark, Clerk. 
DPW Director Updates and Discussions were tabled till May 16, 2024 meeting along with the Ramaker discussions and illuminating the 
American Flag at the Cemetery since the DPW Director was not in attendance.
Meeting Minutes: March 14, 2024 – Motion passed 2 to 0.
Future Meeting Schedule
Thursday, May 16, 2024.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Clerk, Michael Clark.  With no further discussion, meeting 
was adjourned at 10:25 AM – Motion Passed 3 to 0.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair
Michael Clark, Clerk
Electronic Signatures