===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, February 22, 2024– 12:00 Noon
Lunenburg Town Hall – Bilotta Meeting Room
In accordance with the requirement of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting.
A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply with reasonable requirements 
regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair, so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform other
attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting has begun and wishes to record the 
meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt
the meeting in progress, (such as passing a note for the chair).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification 
and announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance.  Is there anyone today that wishes to record this meeting with their own 
devices?
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  Public participation is encouraged and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions at the discretion of the Chair.  
Please note during Public Comment that you have three minutes to give your Public Comment.
12:06 PM – Call to Order – by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, other members present were David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk; Bill 
Bernard, DPW Director; Todd Holman, Cemetery Superintendent; Attorney Adam Costa, Lunenburg Town Counsel (ZOOM 
Conference).  Public attendance were John Bowen, Jeanmarie Price, John Bowen, Jr., and Dave Passios.
Prior to the Public Comment – Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair, read the statements/paragraphs above, as there is still some confusion 
regarding the Open Meeting Law and rules regarding the public recording or videoing within the public meeting.  Mr. John Bowen was 
under the impression that you could send a letter prior to the meeting to the Chair, that he was going to record and video from his own 
devices.    
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair – explained that this is not correct to Mr. Bowen and tried to explain the process on the Open Meeting Law – 
Public Participation Section – which states the following:  “Any member of the public may make an audio or video recording of an 
open session of a public meeting.  A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the chair and must comply 
with reasonable requirements regarding audio or video equipment established by the chair so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The 
chair is required to inform other attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after the meeting 
has begun and wishes to record a meeting, that person should attempt to notify the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a 
manner that does not significantly disrupt the meeting in progress (such as passing a note for the chair to the board administrator or 
secretary).  The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification and announce the fact of any recording to those in 
attendance”.  Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair announced that the Cemetery Commission Meeting was being recorded/videoed by Mr. Bowen.
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair made sure that Attorney Costa was present on Zoom and requested that Attorney Costa gives the Open 
Meeting Law – Public Participation Section (short version, as this was presented and discussed at our last Cemetery Commission 
Meeting on February 05, 2024).  Reviewing the e-mail that was sent to the Cemetery Commission Chair, there seemed to be a few 
errors with respect to the date of the meeting that was going to be recorded.  You are correct prior meeting, that an e-mail is not a 
substitute.  Using the correspondence sent to the Cemetery Commission Chair, is not a substitute prior to the meeting.  Mr. Bowen, 
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA  01462
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair & Clerk

===PAGE 2===
under the Open Meeting Law, you have the right to record/video, as long as you are not interrupting the meeting; and you must 
announce at each meeting that you attend that you are recording/video.  Since Mr. Bowen has announced this, then this is sufficient for 
this meeting.  Mr. Bowen asked to respond, no response needed per Attorney Costa.  Attorney Costa is satisfied that Mr. Bowen has 
met the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
1. Public Comment – John Bowen presented his public comments below. 
a. Mr. Bowen presented many allegations throughout his three minutes plus of public comments.  Statement was made by Mr. 
Bowen – “the Cemetery Commission construction plan for a wall is a flawed and clearly erroneous plan.  The receipts of these 
donations on this agenda today, prior to Town approval of a bid by the DPW is greatly being premature; as the bid process will 
fall under the purview of the DPW; who handles these types of projects. The construction of the wall presentation is flawed, due 
to the of the lack of the qualified construction planner.  The proposals approved by the Commission is not a pre-production plan, 
nor an accurate representation of costs calculations.  The Arborist from Flag Trees is not a true Arborist, which was mentioned in 
your last meeting.  He is a tree cutter and a landscaper. He is not licensed as an Arborist.  This is many issues plaguing the 
process of the commission over-stepping its authority that have been reserved by the DPW; who has the all the technical and 
knowledgeable skills to make these determinations.  Other issues flawed is the possible issue of using minors when working on 
projects within this community pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 149.  The proper planning and placing of the 
project – putting it out for a bid, pursuant to the same chapter.  The studies as well, will reflect a valuation of abutting properties 
with any changes to Town property or any Public Works Project.  Studies of noise to comply with the Town bylaws and state 
codes upon removal of a sound barrier type structures.  These trees are barriers going both ways.  From residents property going 
to the Cemetery and from the Cemetery to the residents property.  How these changes will impact okay with the quiet enjoyments
of the rights of the abutter’s of the family – needs to be addressed.  Your Commission used money from the perpetual care funds 
for engraving a bench and provide a foundation for the bench; which is in violation of conflict of interest laws for a donor on 
behalf of passing of late cemetery commissioner – my condolences to the family, which also needs to be addressed.  This is in 
there minutes at the Cemetery Commission believe me that this is patronage the request for Capital Planning money to wash 
cemetery graves and fallen stones.  This falls under the responsibility to fall under the families interred, unless the families are 
unreachable. Does this fall under the Towns function, as these are old stones and families are unreachable?  The following items 
that have been unbecoming of this Commission is clear- liable remarks in the minutes and false accusations, calling the police 
contentiously on dogs that are loose, placing an advertisement in the newspaper misleading voters, in conjunction with Michael 
R., reflects of the Select-Board as well as rewriting of the rules together with the same.  I am just scratching the surface.  The 
Cemetery holds no power or duties because the cemetery commission does not fall under a Corporation.  That’s General Laws 
Chapter 114.  This is why we see these issues.  There is no experience on this board with the cemeteries but you put yourself 
before the people as you are under control of operations, which clearly you are not. You have no power, and you need permission
from the Town Manager and DPW for day-to-day maintenance operations and in conjunction with the Cemetery Superintendent. 
This rabble-rousing controversially elected position that consistently defaults their debate about why we cannot get along.  That 
is not how the government works.  Healthy debates can concession transparency and compromise is exactly how this works. Stop
playing victim Cemetery Commissioners – because I am speaking for the people, my number is greater then 175 to petition 
this…. Mr. Bowen went over the allotted time of three minutes and was thanked for his public comments by Cemetery 
Commission, Chair – Nancy Foss-Yasko.
b. Public Comment – Dave Passios presented his public comments below.
c. Mr. Passios for full transparency, I am presently seated as a member of the Finance Committee here in the Town of Lunenburg, 
and I am hear speaking as a lifetime resident of the Town of Lunenburg and am a person that is involved in Municipal Town 
Government, for more than a decade in the Town.  I would like to read directly from the Charter the powers and duties of the 
Cemetery Commission.  “The Board of Cemetery Commissioners shall have the sole responsibility to make regulations 
governing the care, superintendence and management of all public burial grounds in Lunenburg and to lay out existing public 
burial grounds and may lot out in lots or other suitable subdivision with property paths, lanes and ways appropriate for burial use 
any other land acquired by the town for burial purposes.”  The “day-to-day care and maintenance of the cemeteries,” shall be 
under the supervision of the Town Manager.  I added a note here, this is my own note, “Town Manager has tasked the DPW 
Director to assume the supervisory, supervision over the cemeteries.”  The wording of the Charter has been questioned since the 
day that the Charter was created.  Especially with the edits that were made previous.  Including and previous to August 20, 2020. 
I sat in on many of those meetings as they were reviewing the Charter, and the definition between the day-to-day care, and other 
maintenance and care items in both cemeteries.  The Cemeteries and Parks Commission of properties was struggled with and 
never fully dealt with.  So there is still a struggle back and fourth between these commissions, and whoever is tasked with day-to-
day care.  There is no fine or clear line between the two definitions.  This is part of the problem.  The other thing is that in my 
interpretation, this does give the power to the Cemetery Commission, to make regulations for the care, which is if they want to 
make a regulations that the grass cannot be no more than an ½ inch long, then that is my interpenetration; which means that they 
are allowed to do that.  This needs to be followed with that regulation.  Superintendence and management, that is where the battle
is.  This is not a new thing between what is day-to-day and what is long-term planning.  Mr. Passios went over the allotted time 
of three minutes and was thanked for his public comments by Cemetery Commission, Chair – Nancy Foss-Yasko.
===PAGE 3===
d. Public Comment – Jeanmarie Price – yielded her public comment of three minutes to Mr. Bowen.  The Cemetery Commission 
spoke briefly to Attorney Costa on giving this public comment to another person that has already spoken.  Attorney Costa stated 
that this is not a violation of the law, this is under your discretion.  Some boards will allow and some will not.  Mr. Bowen 
wanted to thank the commission for allowing them to yield Jeanmarie’s 3 minutes for public comment.  Mr. Bowen wanted to 
make a comment that “there were policy procedure changes with regards to this commission that were written by Selectman 
Jeffrey’s, with you Miss Yasko, I have the e-mails.  That is a duty reserved for your commission of which the Select Board 
engaged.  According to the Massachusetts General Laws it says that the Select Board to be an overseer of these policies and 
changes.  And for them to influence these policy and changes.  As Mr. Passios has referred that okay, okay, it is a conflict of 
interest, and ethics violation to engage him. I also have multiple e-mails from you to Michael Jeffrey’s.  This would be out of the 
preview would be outside of the rules and regulations, which Mr. Passios is recognizing.  The State Law that Mr. Passios is 
recognizes comes under Chapter 114 – Massachusetts General Law, which states that an elected official to Cemetery 
Commission has these powers and duties.  The problem with these powers and duties, you have clarified in a definition that you 
submitted to the Town of what superintendence in maintenance and operations.  I guess Mr. Passios hasn’t read that yet.  Because
if he read that, he would see clearly that the only thing that you have power over is lots that its.  That’s its.  Day-to-day 
maintenance is left for the DPW and Town Manager. I thank the Commission.”
e. The meeting was then turned over to Attorney Costa, which was on a Zoom Conference link.  Response listed below.  
f. Response to Open Meeting Law Complaint from Jeanmarie Price  – Attorney Costa spoke on behalf of the Cemetery 
Commission.  This discussion was turned over to the Legal Counsel, Attorney Costa – presented copies of the letter’s that 
Attorney Costa had written to both the complainant and Division of Open Government – Office of the Attorney General to Nancy
Foss-Yasko, Chair and Dave Dorren, Vice-Chair.  Explanation of the Open Meeting Law and how this process works was stated 
in our last Cemetery Commission Meeting.  The complaint is submitted by the complainant to the public body, in which a period 
of time in which the public body can review the substance of the complaint, and can then prepare a response.  That response gets 
sent to the complainant, and then filed with the new Division of Open Government, within the Office of the Attorney General; 
which reviews these sort of complaints.  In the event that the complainant is satisfied with the response from the public body, it 
will then end there – end of process.  If the complainant is then dissatisfied with the response, then the complainant can make a 
filing of their own with the Division of the Open Government, will then conduct their own investigation of the complaint; which 
consists of phone call/conversations with the complainant and members of the commission that are alleged to the Open Meeting 
Law violation.  This usually falls within the 45 to 60 days, the Division of the Open Government will make a determination if the
Open Meet Law has been violated, and will order any remedies that might be appropriate. Again, this is the process.  In this case 
an Open Meeting Law Complaint was submitted – originally filed on February 05, 2024.  Filed the Open Meeting Law 
Complaint Form – 2 pages.  Description of the alleged violation complaint completed by Miss Jeanmarie Price; which is Mr. 
Bowen’s significant other – that’s my understanding anyway.  Attorney Costa announced that this complaint is similar to the filed
by Mr. Bowen during the same meeting of November 30, 2023. This complaint is somewhat different, than Mr. Bowen’s 
complaint .  It specifically she speaks to the issue of adjourning or recess the meeting that occurred which point and time, Mr. 
Bowen and Miss Price left the meeting.  The meeting was then reconvened a short while later – 20 to 25 minutes later; and the 
business was then completed.  The concern and nature of the complaint raised by Ms. Price is that she perceives the that to be a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  I reviewed the complaint and as I have said, included with the materials that accompanied it.
I prepared and circulated a few days ago, prior to today’s meeting; a proposed response to the complaint. In some respects, this is 
similar to the last complaint response that I provided you for Mr. Bowen’s complaint, but an another respect it is similar refers to 
the time-frame that is stated with the Open Meeting Law.  That the complaints files pursuit to this procedure needs to be filed 
within 30 days of the meeting that is complained of.  Obviously, this complaint was received on February 05, 2024; which was 
received for more than 30 days.  I think, it was a total of 67 days, after the November 30, 2023 meeting.  Which is 37 days too 
late, for the response to the complaint.  Footnotes will reveal on the first page, that both Mr. Bowen and Miss Price attended the 
meeting, but Mr. Bowen in my summarizing and my understanding was acting in a disruptive or threatening manner.  The 
Commissioners felt unsafe.  This was based on my research and discussions, this is when Mr. Bowen was asked to leave the 
meeting.  The police were called in requested by the Chair, which Mr. Bowen then left the meeting.  Apparently prior to the 
arrival of the police.  This addressed on what occurred at the meeting.  The draft is before you, will will follow the same next 
steps in questions that you may have, and then voting on authorization to submit the response that is before you.  Copies sent to 
Miss Price with other copies sent to Office of the Attorney General.  Motion was made to accept these letters to go forward by 
Attorney Costa, and send copies of these signed letters to the Cemetery Commissioner’s and Jeanmarie Price. 
Review & Approved Motions
g. Open Meeting Law Complaint Letter – Jeanmarie Price – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
h. Open Meeting Law Complaint Letter – Office of the Attorney General – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
2. Review & Approve Minutes and Annual Report FY23 Document
a. February 05, 2024 – Meeting Minutes – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
b. Cemetery Commission Warrant Article for FY25 Annual Town Meeting Article ($10K) – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
===PAGE 4===
3. DPW Director Updates and Discussions – The cemeteries in Lunenburg will remain closed to vehicular traffic because of the 
weather, as it looks like more snow coming in tonight.  Even though it might look clear today, I think it is prudent to keep them 
closed for now.  That’s all I have for an update.
4. Cemetery Commission Updates and Discussions – Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, spoke to when Ramaker was purchased by the 
Cemetery Commission. The desktop software was purchased on May 20, 2010.  This desktop version was signed off by 
Cemetery Commissioner, Charles Deming.  The last update was purchased as an upgrade – cloud based product.  This was signed
on April 12, 2019; which Cemetery Commissioner, Bill Tyler had signed off on.  It made us more protected, and kept us up-to-
date with Cemetery Software.  The previous Cemetery Commissioner Chairperson’s have always had the password.  Access to 
this data is not part of the Cemetery Commissions day to day duties, however, ad hoc access on an as needed basis are required 
from time to time.   
Question:  I would like to know, as of today, are we up to date with all available and required data having been entered in 
Ramaker?  
Answer:  DPW Director, is not sure? 
Action Request: I would like a report for the next meeting detailing the up to-date status of data entry in Ramaker going back as 
far as 2010.  This would include everything that is out there, old records in boxes stored underneath the DPW Cemetery 
Superintendent’s desk, and historical information that has been entered into that database.  If this cannot be provided or is 
incomplete, the Cemetery Commission would like to know why?  Is there a plan going forward for getting all this data entered 
into this software.  Understanding that this takes time, but since 2010, and by now, you should have a good handle on this.  I 
would like to know the status of where we are to-date, as well as the way ahead.  
Answer:  DPW Director, will provide this report/response for our next meeting.  
5. Question:     Cemetery Commission Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, is questioning why was the Cemetery Commission not notified and 
informed that a refund was given on a grave and burial plot fee?  It looks like the 7th and 21st November, 2023.  I want to keep the
name confidential, but it looks like there were two incidents that a refund was issued without notification or Cemetery 
Commission knowledge?  Can you tell me why that the Cemetery Commission was not informed or notified of this?  
Answer:  DPW Director, I think I know the reason, but I do not understand why you need to be informed?  This is a day-to-day 
operations.  We do plots everyday, and we do not inform you that.  
Response: Again, you use the words day-to-day operations when it is convenient for you Bill.  Primarily I am telling you that the
Cemetery Commission has always voted on and concurred on the circumstances for a requested burial plot to be refunded, and 
that has always been the way that it has been done, with all of the Cemetery Commissioner’s prior to my being Chair. We are 
here again today, with little to no respect for my being Chair.  Every Commissioner before me has received this information.  
Why am I the only one that cannot get this information from your organization?  Can you please explain that to me?  
Answer:  DPW Director, I am not aware of any other refunds.  I can tell you I know about this specific one, but prior to that, not 
aware of any.  
Response: Dave Dorren, Vice-Chair, “under the previous Cemetery Commission Chair, we had a vote and it is reflected in the 
minutes that we reviewed and voted to refund the money.  This transaction was on record as paying money out of our budget 
funds to give to the parties.  My concern in hearing about this today, that it seems to come out of the Cemetery Commission 
budget.  In essence, the DPW is controlling the cemetery budget without having accountability, knowledge of, or an audit trail of 
this transaction. Personally, your not even part of the Commission, I do not think this is fair.  If we did give money back with 
these two people, I would like to fully understand where it came from?” 
Response: Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair, wanted to make clear, that the Cemetery Commission, has authority for the Perpetual Care 
Account Funds.  We are not allowed to spend the principle, only the interest generated.  No one else, except the Cemetery 
Commission is authorized to use these funds, including the Town and DPW. 
Question: Dave Dorren, Vice-Chair would like to know from the DPW Director, why the money was returned in our next 
meeting? 
Answer: DPW Director, believes that they moved out of Town, so therefore, were not going to be buried here. 
Response: You are stating that the Cemetery Commission was not involved because this is your day-to-day business.  DPW 
Director, stated correct,  The Cemetery Commission was not told because he believes this falls under the day-to-day business.  
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair stated “this needs to change, as here again is yet another example of no communication with the 
Cemetery Commission.”  
Question: Another point is the discussion around the Capital Planning Budget.  When the Cemetery Commission asked how 
many lots were available in the North Cemetery, we were given a number of around 40ish in the spring/summer time of 2023. 
Now we hear that there are100 lots that available.  The DPW and Cemetery Commission had discussed opening up the back field,
as there was going to be a need very soon for other lots at the North Cemetery.  A decision was made, based on your 40ish data, 
that the Cemetery Commission needed to put this into place.  When we were given that 40ish number, and after the decision was 
made to proceed, you then told me that this was only an estimate.  This was not a true number, as the Cemetery Superintendent 
was too busy.  When the Cemetery Commission makes a decision on something, the Commission needs the data to be accurate 
and correct.  If the data is not accurate and correct, then we cannot make a sound business decision to go forward with opening or
not opening the back field at this time, and spend taxpayers money or not at this time.  In theory, if the Cemetery Commission 
===PAGE 5===
can not open that back field up this year, and push this back a year, then the Town will not have the expense going forward at this 
time.  Saving that $50,000.00 for this year, may certainly help the Town in their budget going forward.  This will be a better business 
decision for the Town.  But if the Cemetery Commission does not have the correct data, then you cannot expect to make a sound 
decision.  
Response: DPW Director, “explains that sometimes you need to go back to the well a few times to get the money that is needed from 
the Capital Plan committee.”  
Response: Chair stated “that going forward, we all need to be careful on true data, not estimates.”  This is how to make a better plan 
with true data. 
Statement: DPW Director, made a statement that he believes that the DPW has been paying for Ramaker by his records a few years, 
and going forward he is going to be paying for it.  
Response: Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, replied that this was not correct, as she had reached out to Ramaker today, and the Cemetery 
Commission has paid for this software continuously since it was initially purchased in 2010.  The Cemetery Commission will make 
the decision and I will talk with Heather regarding this, and going forward with this.  Again, the DPW is making a unilateral decision 
without consulting the Commission.  We have paid it from the beginning, and we will see this through.  I will bring this up to where it 
needs to be brought up to.  No way ahead on this Ramaker; therefore, it will be tabled to the next meeting.  Dave Dorren, Vice-Chair 
wants to go forward with a meeting with the Town Manager, or whoever else needs to be part of this meeting regarding Ramaker.  
6. Mr. Richard McGrath – unable to be at this meeting today.  This will be rescheduled for the next meeting. 
Cemetery Commission is grateful for the possibility of a generous gift of $175K.  This is simply in the researching stages at this time. 
We have endorsements of many other people in this Town that would like to see a wall put in place, and we are still in the stages of 
learning and researching for this project.  The hedges are not presentable, as a result of the severely pruning.  We need to continue 
researching the best solution for this situation.  The DPW Director, is in agreement to the hedges being cut down; however, the 
Cemetery Commission needs the end to end plan for this solution before proceeding further.  If there is enough money to put out a bid 
contract, then it is definitely could take all the hedges and chip them up by the DPW. All the hedges would be taken down.  
7. Future Meeting Schedule
a. Thursday, March 07, 2024.
Motion was made to adjourn by Chair, Nancy Foss-Yasko, seconded by Vice-Chair and Clerk, David Dorren.  With no further 
discussion, meeting was adjourned at 12:56 PM – Motion Passed 2 to 0.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Foss-Yasko, Chair
David Dorren, Vice-Chair and Clerk
Electronic Signatures