===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG CEMETERY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
Thursday, September 18, 2025 – 7:30 AM 
 
Lunenburg South Cemetery – Site visit 
Attendees: Bill Bernard, Todd Holman, Mike Clark, Dave Dorren, Donna Landry 
 
This meeting was an on-site in person walking tour of the South Cemetery – Items 
discussed per the posted Agenda. 
Minutes 
7:35 AM – Call to Order 
1.) Stand for the Pledge of Allegiance  
Tour the front older section of the cemetery, discussed stone straighten and stone 
alignment work to be performed. The estimate for the work is $13.5k and the work is 
expected to take 6  working days. 
2.) Reviewed front hedges and trimming and maintenance protocol that the Cemetery 
Superintendent Todd Holman has done and is currently engaged in. 
3.) Discussed large tree at front lower corner and whether there is a need to trim a large 
limb.  
4.) Walked the lower road back to the rear of the cemetery and discussed the required 
brush and limb trimming required to provide access to the stone wall backside. This 
is needed in order to preform work in the areas requiring repair and rebuilding. 
  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148 
 
Commissioners: 
Mike Clark, Chair 
David Dorren, Vice-Chair  
              Donna Landry, Clerk  
 
 
DPW Department Director: Bill Bernard 
Cemetery Superintendent: Todd Holman 
 

===PAGE 2===
5.) Mike discussed the integration between CIMS software and GIS as well as training – 
to be determined in the future. 
 
6.) Reviewed CIMS (Cemetery Information Systems) plotted data against what is 
visually present for brurials. The 1800’s sections of the plots may have unmarked 
graves. It is diƯicult to a lot plots for sale in these areas.  
 
7.) We walked the far back section and the back road, discussed the possibility of 
further expansion. No decision but keep it on the agenda as a talking point. 
 
8.) Agreed to schedule a site walk of Fish Street Cemetery as a separate topic of 
discussion. 
9.) Adjourned at 8:51, Vice Chair David Dorren requested a motion to adjourn, Clerk 
Donna Landry seconded, AIF . 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Donna l. Landry 
Clerk 
 