===PAGE 70===
70 
 
 
 Radio Watch is increased $20,749  
 Total Protection, which includes Police and Fire, is increased $256,468, or 8.7%, which still 
leaves a gap to catch up to the growing needs of the town, an ongoing priority. 
 DPW is increased $79,207 adding $50,000 for pavement management as planned along with 
salary increases and the return of the assistant mechanic position. 
 Buildings and Facilities is decreased, but that is from the adjusted budget at last year’s 
Special Town Meeting which identified funds to make needed repairs and fund a full survey 
of maintenance and repair needs of several Town buildings.  
 Solid Waste is increased $3,130, following a large decrease made the previous year. 
 Health & Sanitation is increased $2,491. 
 Council on Aging is increased $5,694, which moves some funding for MART van scheduling 
to the town ahead of anticipated reductions in formula reimbursements from MART.   
 Veterans Administration is level funded. 
 Public Schools is increased $588,061, or 3% more than the FY2018 budget.  It is a level 
service budget. 
 Monty Tech assessment is decreased $53,516.  This reflects decreased enrollments, which 
fluctuate year to year.  The savings in this account were considered too unpredictable to 
absorb into operating costs and were thus used to offset the borrowing anticipated to fund the 
ladder truck. 
 Library is increased $18,744, a 4.9% increase representing a level service budget. 
 Debt Service is decreased $158,811, the second year of declining debt service. 
 Unclassified is increased $233,495, driven completely by health insurance increases. 
 Retirement Assessment is increased $114,832, about twice as much as last year. 
 
The Capital Planning Committee has recommended a plan requiring $1,455,214.  This warrant fully 
funds the plan, and includes $417,000 of short term borrowing, with payments expected to begin in 
Fiscal Year 2020, after the debt on the last Engine purchased has retired.   
  
In summary, the budget presented addresses at least current service levels, with some increase in 
some departments.  The Finance Committee will continue to address the question of ensuring the 
budget addresses the priorities of the Town of Lunenburg.  We congratulate the Town 
administration’s work to maintain the AA+ bond rating, and thank all of the town employees for their 
continued service.  We are grateful for the continued cooperation of the Town Manager, each 
department head, and other Town Boards and Committees to ensure that every budget question is 
answered.     
 
Finance Committee  
Terri Burchfield, Chairman 
John Henshaw, Vice-Chairman 
Jay Simeone, Clerk 
Mark Erickson 
George Martin 
Hannah Anderson 
Mark Luescher 
 
 
===PAGE 71===
71 
 
 
HISTORICAL COMMISSION 
  The Historical Commission consists of five appointed volunteers who meet once a month from 
September to June. The work of the Historical Commission is preservation and appreciation of 
all things historic in the Town of Lunenburg. The Historical Commission has through the past 
year been represented on the Architectural Preservation District Commission by two of our 
members, Richard McGrath and Cullen Dwyer. The design standards for the APDC have been 
completed. 
 The Bronze Marker project has been completed, which was made possible through the efforts of 
Joshua Herrick of Troop 1728 Lunenburg and his Eagle Scout Project. All the houses in 
Lunenburg’s National Registered Historic District were surveyed for National Registered 
Historic plaques (last available in 1987) and those home’s missing plaques were purchased by 
the Historic Commission from the Erie Landmark Company.  Installation was completed and 
finally all the houses in our National Registered Historic District will get the recognition they 
deserve. Recognizing our Nationally Registered houses will be an ongoing effort of the 
Historical Commission with both ongoing registration and providing plaques to houses that meet 
the criteria. 
  Our second marker project is nearing completion with the purchase of the Arnold & Litch 
family cemetery marker from the Erie Landmark Company. This will mark a small family 
cemetery plot that was lost to neglect on West Street. The installation of this marker will be this 
spring.  
  We continue to hold hearings and enact the Demolition Delay Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg 
for the destruction of Historic properties. The Demolition Delay Bylaw had the delay expanded 
to 18 months at the Fall 2018 Town Meeting. We are involved in preservation efforts for 1755 
House at 68 Elm Street, which is under demolition delay. This house was known as the Battles 
House and Benjamin P. Redington who owned it in 1790, served in the Revolutionary War and 
mustered from Lunenburg. 
Members of the Historical Commission:  
Rebecca Lantry,  
Richard McGrath,  
Cullen Dwyer, 
Jennifer Sanderson  
Bill Lakso 
===PAGE 72===
72 
 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
 
The primary mission of the Information Technology Department is to increase efficiency 
through the use of technology.  The IT Department enables all other Town departments and 
schools to communicate and collaborate, manage daily tasks, organize, store and share infor-
mation, and generally conduct Town business more effectively.  We also provide the neces-
sary infrastructure, equipment, software and expertise to comply with current regulations 
and methodology when interacting with outside agencies and organizations. 
 
The Information Technology staff for the Town and Schools has remained constant this 
year.   
 
Following is an overview of our current IT staff: 
 
Steve Malandrinos – Information Technology Director 
 Hired in December, 2012 
Previously an engineer at Cisco Systems, IT Director for the Town of Belchertown, MA and 
Belchertown Public Schools 
 
Daniel Nadareski – Network Administrator 
 Retired police officer from the Albany, NY police force with over 24 years on the job 
Prior experience includes computer crime and forensics, network administration, video secu-
rity system administration, and IP phone system administration 
 
Jordan Pochini – Tech Support Specialist 
 Recently graduated from Fitchburg State University with a degree in Computer Science 
Prior experience includes both individual contributor and management roles in retail envi-
ronments 
 
Nicholas Scoggins – School Technology Coordinator 
 Received Associate and Bachelor of Science degrees from ITT Technical Institute 
Served 5 years as Security System Administrator at Greater Lawrence Technical School 
 
The IT Department serves as a helpdesk for all users’ daily technology issues.  We also per-
form regular maintenance and scheduled replacement of the Town’s and Schools’ technolo-
gy assets, as well as provide formal and ad hoc training for users throughout the Town and 
Schools. 
===PAGE 73===
73 
 
 
Bad libraries build collections, good libraries build services, great libraries build 
communities.  [R. David Lankes] 
 
If the over 70,000 people that crossed our threshold over the last year is an indicator - Lunenburg 
has a GREAT library!  We continue to focus on our three pillars: Collaborate, Communicate & 
Create and it is clear that this strategy is working.  You can feel the energy at the LPL in so many 
ways. The number and range of people that come to: have a meeting, learn something new, play 
a board game, talk with friend, find a piece of information, entertain their toddler, get help with 
homework, see an art exhibit, listen to a local play the Celtic harp, watch a new movie, buy a still 
warm loaf of bread, fill a bag with books to take home, or simply remind yourself that the 
Library is a place where you are always welcome, where you belong. 
Lunenburg is very fortunate to have had the Friends group who worked so tirelessly to raise the 
money to build this beautiful building and they continue to support the library in countless ways 
(programs, building projects, office supplies, museum passes) to the tune of over $30,000! When 
other towns are thinking about building a new library they come to Lunenburg to see your library 
because it is considered one of the best, well designed and beautiful in Massachusetts.  Have you 
noticed our new sign at the roadside?  You can actually see it at night- imagine!!   
The most important asset of any library goes home at night – the library staff [Timothy Healy]. 
At the core of our success is a staff of librarians that truly are focused on providing Lunenburg 
with excellent library services that reflect this community’s needs.  I could not be more pleased 
with the way the staff works and collaborates with each other to share their skills and knowledge 
to benefit the people of Lunenburg.  They are always willing to stretch, to learn, to create to 
bring you the best services.    
The last year has brought changes – the retirement of Patty Dupont (the heart & soul of this 
library for 34 years) and the arrival of Muir Haman, Adult Services Librarian.  Muir is a writer, 
an editor, a farmer, a gardener, an amazing librarian and a new father.  Another change this year 
will be my retirement at the end of March.  Happily, the Trustees have chosen Muir to be the 
new Library Director.  This makes leaving the Library, the people that I have grown to love 
possible as I know Muir will strengthen and improve the Library and its place in the community. 
One wonderful change at the Library has been the renovation of the Teen Room.  Very simple 
changes but we can see and feel the impact of the new white board table, computer counter, and 
new shelving.  Small changes have changed the look but also the feel of this room. It is more 
inviting, more usable, and more used than ever before. I have to admit when Teen Librarian,  
===PAGE 74===
74 
 
 
Nicole Piermarini told me her idea in my head I was thinking “You want to do what???” But her 
vision was true and has proven to be a great success. 
Adult Services 
The addition of Muir Haman to the staff as Adult Services Librarian/Assistant Director has allowed a 
renewed focus on the services we offer our adult patrons and focus on a strategic approach to adult 
program planning. This strategic approach has included a focus on data and analysis, and increased effort 
to bring both thematically related topics and additional variety to the programming calendar. Between 
July and December, 22 adult programs were added to the schedule, and these programs brought in 443 
attendees. This approach has also led to a deepening of the relationship with Fitchburg State University 
when the library hosted its first ALFA class, with programs utilizing student expertise and talent, and by 
inviting faculty presenters to enrich our evening lectures. Additionally, much of the legwork has been 
done to present our first ever adult summer reading program, which will kick off with the visit of 
bestselling author Andrew Forsthoefel on June 30th, 2019. Through the adult services department, the 
library’s strong baseline of services for all groups by creating and providing resource lists for several 
specific populations: refugees, sensory needs families, nature lovers, and those who desire social services.  
FY20 goals:  
 to continue to improve our strong baseline of library services,  
 to make the library a place of thriving, delightful programming 
 finalize the components of a long-term plan for bringing a diverse, inclusive, entertaining, and 
educational calendar of library-sponsored programs to the community by utilizing data, analysis 
and experimentation.  
 To continue to strengthen our relationship with local institutions of higher learning.  
 To further deepen the collection in subject areas which resonate with the community and which 
connect to successful programs.  
Children’s Services: 
The Children’s Area of the Lunenburg Public Library continues to be a dynamic, entertaining 
destination for children and families throughout the region.  Attendance at weekly story times for 
children ages birth-5 remains strong.  Our afterschool offerings for school aged children, i.e. 
“Tuesdays with Stories Book Group” and Lego Club are also well attended.  New for F Y 2019 
are weekly visits from the fifth graders at Turkey Hill Elementary School.  These children enjoy 
the opportunity with these visits to explore and become comfortable with our wonderful library 
and experience first-hand all that we have to offer. We have seen many new faces with these 
visits and have issued lots of new library cards!  
Collection evaluation and development continues as we strive to provide the most up-to-date, 
substantive materials for our younger patrons.  The beginning chapter book area that we created 
for emergent readers has provided an opportunity for these readers to easily located items that 
are geared for their reading level and therefor, allow them to be successful with their reading 
choices.   The non-fiction area for preschool aged children is heavily used and we are continually 
adding new items.  Nonfiction books give kids a chance to learn new concepts and vocabulary, 
as well as broaden their view of the world.  Educators and publishers are recognizing that this  
===PAGE 75===
75 
 
 
interest begins at a very early age for many children; therefore, the book options are varied and 
well presented.   
We are constantly evaluating our toy/manipulative collection to keep it current, stimulating and 
in good shape.  We are fortunate to have had many quality items donated for our use.  Toys are 
more than just fun and games for kids.  Playing with toys engages a child’s senses, sparks their 
imaginations and encourages them to interact with others.   
Lastly, a shout out to parents and caregivers who faithfully bring their children to our monthly  
S T E M Saturdays.  Saturday is a busy time for these families yet they recognize the value of 
this opportunity to engage their children in fun, educational activities in the fields of Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Math.   
 
Every child should be familiar and comfortable with the local library and possess the skills to 
find their way around libraries in general.  To this end, the goals for Children’s Services for 
FY2020 are: 
 To continue to develop opportunities via passive and active programs designed to 
encourage children to gain independence and confidence as they explore the many facets 
of our collection.   
 To provide children with open access to all digital resources and media and to ensure that 
we have the most up-to-date technology that we can afford for their use.  
 To continually evaluate, increase/update non-fiction collection to present an accurate, 
updated collection for children of all ages and to optimize shelving of this  collection for 
ease of access 
 To provide an exciting, stimulating fiction collection for children of all ages to encourage 
a life-long love of reading.   
 
Teen Services: 
 
The teen room saw increased summer reading attendance, new programs, and was redesigned in 
2018.  The amount of hours read for the 2018 Summer Reading Program increased from 447 
hours read in 2017 to a whopping 4,163.5 hours read!  Program participation ran strong with 188 
tweens and teens attending 11 programs.   
A teen Dungeon’s and Dragon’s club was started in September to coincide with the start of 
school.  While there is only one official library D&D night, the group of 14 meet twice a week in 
the teen room to play their various campaigns, trading off the Dungeon Master (leader) position.  
Sessions range from as small as 4 players to as large as 14 depending on the teens’ availability 
that day.  This program has been immensely popular and continues to grow.   
The teen room has been updated and refurnished to make the space meet the needs of today’s 
teens.  White board table with outlets to charge their phone was added in addition to relocating 
the TV to have a designated video game area where more teens could comfortably gather.  New 
shelving for both books and board games was added as well. 
===PAGE 76===
76 
 
 
To continue the momentum, in the coming year the focus will be on getting the teens to buy into 
their new space and truly make it theirs. To accomplish this, a teen advisory group will be 
created.  As part of this group teens will create and lead programming that they are excited about 
and provide feedback on what they want going forward.  Other goals include increasing 
volunteer opportunities to meet the current demand and shifting the summer reading program 
away from the traditional model to the summer learning model.  To meet these goals beginning 
this summer program priority will be given to programs that encourage team work, collaboration, 
and incorporate learning a new skill or honing existing ones.  Beginning in the fall, a monthly 
community service program will be introduced with teens giving back to the community.  This 
will be done in a fun way through crafts, cards, and incorporating a service component to 
learning new skills. 
FY2020 
 
The staff is eagerly awaiting a new era at the Lunenburg Public Library with a new Director, 
Muir Haman and two other new staff members.  We all know the Library will grow in a variety 
of ways: collection, programs, services and FUN!  Don’t forget to check out our new Library of 
Things (displayed to the left of the front desk). 
 
 
From The Director 2012-2019 
 
I wanted to take this opportunity to say good-bye to the Lunenburg Community and to thank you 
for your support and interest in the Lunenburg Library and your encouragement and kindnesses 
to me over these last six years.  Most especially to the wonderful Board of Trustees and the 
amazing Friends of the Lunenburg Library – my tenure would have been extremely different and 
more difficult without all of you!  Between the Trustees, the Friends, and the staff I know the 
Library is in good hands! 
 
Many thanks & kind regards, 
 
Martha Moore 
 
Martha Moore, Director 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
===PAGE 77===
77 
 
LUNENBURG PUBLIC ACCESS (PAC)  
 
 
 
 
 
FY1
8 
Mission: Develop, modernize, establish and operate the 
Town of Lunenburg’s Public and Government (P&G) Access 
Channels to reflect what matters to Lunenburg 
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) 
Steve Walker, Chair 
Faith Beall, Vice Chair 
Jeff Bajko, Secretary 
 
The Lunenburg Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) is responsible for the long-term plan to manage 
the Public Access Channels available to the Lunenburg community through Comcast, the town’s only cable-
service provider.  
The overall strategy includes providing and improving equipment to acquire, record, broadcast and re-
broadcast programming from both town functions and meetings, as well as programming from publicly 
available sources. 
 
Programming 
CH9 - Public 
Public Access Cable (PAC) produced 57% of the local programming on Ch9 in FY18, down 18% from 
75% in FY17.  The decrease in local programming was largely due to the lack of volunteers and paid 
videographers.  
Local programs included high school sports, band concerts and school events, just to name a few.  The 
remaining 43% of programming was obtained through other media sources (Access Share) and online 
downloads (MassAccess and PEGMedia). 
===PAGE 78===
78 
 
Channel 9 – Public Channel 
Several categories of local programming were provided on Ch9, among the top were Infor-
mational (43%), Entertainment (17%) and Events (17%).   As the top programming category, 
Informational provided subscribers with unique presentations and overviews that helped 
to familiarizes them with local resources and information.    
 
All locally produced programming is also accessible on the Public Access YouTube Channel 
and Facebook     http://www.youtube.com/LunenburgAccess 
   https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable  
 
CH8 - Government 
Most content on the Government Channel (Ch8) is locally produced.  In addition to several 
live weekly municipal meetings and re-broadcasts, other examples of government pro-
grams include committee/department Public Service Announcements (PSA).  One such PSA 
is for the promotion of the Council on Aging’s Eagle House and their services to the Senior 
community.  Each year a new PSA is created to showcase activities and events that encour-
age new members to join.  This is just one example of many, which also include past PSAs 
created for the Fire Department and Safety Center.  Although, both are municipal depart-
ments (Government), these promotions have aired on the Public Channel 9 to reach a wid-
er audience. 
 
Government programming increased in FY18 through additional monthly recordings of 
School Committee and Finance Committee meetings.  In addition, Conservation Committee, 
Open Space Committee, and other state sourced programs, such as “State Matters”, were 
added to the monthly broadcasts. 

===PAGE 79===
79 
 
All recorded Government meetings are accessible on the Public Access YouTube channel.   
   http://www.youtube.com/LunenburgAccess  
Town committees/departments are always encouraged to take advantage of PAC to im-
prove town government to community information flow. 
Contract Renewal 
Contract negotiations with Comcast began in FY18 to renew the agreement between Com-
cast and the Town of Lunenburg commencing on March 1, 2018 through February FY28.  
The Cable Committee, Tom Alonzo, Steve Walker, Paula Bertram, advised by IT Director  
Steve Malandrinos and Town Manager Heather Lemieux, worked with KP Law to reach a 
mutually acceptable contract with Comcast. The result of the negotiations, finalized in June 
of FY18, brought an increase in franchise fees from 2.5% to 5.0%, and a capital infusion of 
$170,000 over 3 years.   The first of these payments of $85,000 was made on June 27, 2018.  
The next 2 payments will be $42,500 in FY19 and FY20 respectively.  Capital payments are 
being held in an Undesignated Fund (Comcast Tech Capital Grant) revenue account for fu-
ture capital use.  Additionally, it was agreed to provide Lunenburg with a 3rd Channel exclu-
sively for educational content to be available within 24 months of the contract effective 
date. 
PACC reserved the Comcast infused capital of $85,000, along with the $39,796.01 already in 
the Undesignated Fund from 2008, for a total of $124,796.01.  These monies can be used 
for a future studio and various other capital equipment needs.  
In FY20 the PAC financial structure is planned to change to an enterprise fund for all reve-
nue and expense related activity. 
 
Legal Expenses related to contract negotiations accounted for 11% of the FY18 expenses. 
 
Studio and Equipment Upgrades 
PAC has had studio space in the TC Passios school since 2013.  We encourage the public to 
take advantage of the facilities and equipment offered.  
===PAGE 80===
80 
 
The strategy for the PAC studio in the upcoming fiscal years includes acquiring new studio 
space as soon as municipal space becomes available.  A new studio would provide a more 
permanent and comfortable environment for producing programming.  Space is not ex-
pected prior to FY21. 
Upgrades included portable equipment to improve remote multi-camera live (and non-
live) broadcasting in FY18.  The addition of a custom-built transmitter and switcher system 
(3CPU) allowed a converter to transfer a live signal through the internet to the CASTUS 
server and out to the public on Ch8 or Ch9.  Live broadcast feeds are now possible from 
the PAC studio, the LMHS Auditorium, and the Public Safety Building. 
This system was also designed to produce recorded (non-live) high quality multi-camera 
remote productions as well.  “Are You Smarter than Our Fifth Graders” was the first show 
recorded with the 3CPU at the LHS auditorium in the Spring of FY18. And, the next month, 
in May, the system was first used to record a multi-camera production of the Annual 
Town Meeting.  
 
Other equipment upgrades and additions for FY19 will include new cameras to loan out 
for public use.  PAC currently has 3 loaner cameras available for use in producing local 
programming. The community is encouraged to borrow PAC equipment or submit their 
own video for Ch9 content. 
 
Improvements in live broadcasting at Town Hall included the addition of wireless micro-
phones for meeting use.  These microphones made it possible to record boards/
committees located at the conference table in the Bilotta Room.  An addition of 4 more 
wireless microphones are planned for FY19.     
   
Equipment upgrade accounted for 17% of the FY18 expenses. 
Staff, Producers and Volunteers 
In FY18, there was one full-time Program Coordinator and four part-time staff, classified 
as Vendors (Budget Line Item: “Purchase of Services”).  The Program Coordinator was re-
classified to Public Access Manager in FY18, leaving the Program Coordinator position 
open.  The Manager continues to administer the day-to-day operation of the organization, 
including all production and programming schedules, staff scheduling, equipment and ser-
vices procurement, studio and inventory administration, advertising, and  
===PAGE 81===
81 
 
social media. Vendors (videographers) provided video recording of committee meetings 
and additional video assignments, as needed.   
 
A technical contract consultant was added in FY18 to help with studio and production 
needs.  The consultant worked with the PAC manager to upgrade the studio, as well as 
build a remote multi-camera system.  He also provided technical and training assistance as 
needed.  It is expected that he will remain working for PAC through FY19.  However, PAC 
will be searching for a permanent part-time Production Technician to add to the staff in 
FY19.  
 
Of the 57% of locally produced shows on Ch9, most were produced by public access staff.  
Our resident top producer, Pete Lincoln of “Talkin’ Baseball”, continued to create new pro-
grams for airing on Ch9 through FY18.  St. Boniface congregants also produce a weekly 
mass program, on-air now for over two years. 
 
Getting volunteers has been a great effort, with little response. Social media and newspa-
pers have been used to promote volunteerism with little effect.  PAC will continue to look 
for other ways to reach out to the community for volunteers.   
 
Staff (Salaries, Health Insurance, Purchase of Services) accounted for 64% of the FY18 ex-
penses. 
 
Financials 
PAC received all of its income from Comcast in quarterly payments (received August, No-
vember, February and May). The overall payments received for FY18 were $111,045.25.  
These payments were deposited to the PAC Revenue Fund, and the Operating Budget was 
set at $162,800 for projected expenses and capital costs.  
The starting balance in the Revenue Fund for PAC in FY18 was $ 303,551.54 with a budget-
ed amount of $162,800. 
===PAGE 82===
82 
 
                                                        FY 18 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Line Item Amount 
Salaries $43,224.34 
Purchase of Services $6,971.50 
Consultant $1,053.20 
Lease $6,000.00 
Office Supplies $14.50 
Advertising $800.00 
Equip./Maintenance $15,477.89 
Insurance $7,007.16 
New Equip $0 
Legal Fees $10,034.08 
TOTAL $90,582.67 

===PAGE 83===
83 
 
                                                       FY18 REVENUE vs EXPENSES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary 
The support of the local community has helped Lunenburg Public Access (PAC) succeed.  PAC has received 
numerous requests for recording, as well as positive viewer feedback.  People are watching.   In fact, the 
viewership of the Government Channel (Ch8) alone, on-air and YouTube, shows a solid commitment to Public 
Access as a valuable resource for local information. 
 
The Public channel (Ch9) added new and unique programming for all to enjoy as well.  While local program-
ming on Ch9 decreased in FY18, it is expected to increase in FY19 with the addition of videographers and stu-
dio productions.  But we can’t do this alone.  Volunteers and community involvement is necessary for PAC to 
grow.  Individuals are urged to bring their ideas and talent forward to help create programming.  Training and 
guidance is provided for those who are interested. 
With the infusion of capital from the Comcast contract, PAC can now make necessary improvements moving 
forward.  It will allow for the addition of more videographers and the capital equipment necessary to in-
crease quality and content. Better technical support will also be possible with the hiring of a Production Engi-
neer in FY19.    
 
PAC is proud of the accomplishments made in FY18.  However, there is much more work to be done.  Admin-
istrative and production needs are continually increasing, videographer demands are great, and technical 
requirements are always at the forefront. Careful planning and budgeting has lead to success this year, as 
well as the solid commitment to Lunenburg.   
 
PAC’s promise, as expressed in the mission statement, sums it up best: “To Develop, modernize, establish 
and operate the Town of Lunenburg’s Public and Government (P&G) Access Channels to reflect what matters 
to Lunenburg.”  
 
 
 
 
Starting Balance $303,551.54 
Revenue $111,045.25 
Subtotal $414,596.79 
Expenses $90,582.67 
Ending Balance $324,014.12 
===PAGE 84===
84 
 
SENIOR PROPERTY TAX WORK-OFF PROGRAM 
Est. 1998 
CALENDAR YEAR JANUARY 1, 2018 – NOVEMBER 1, 2018 
 
The Property Tax Work-Off Committee is a five-member committee appointed by the Lunenburg 
Board of Selectmen. 
2018 Committee Members: 
*Sheila Craigen 
*Susan Doherty 
*Nancy Forest 
*Robert Hamel 
*Myleen Mallari 
 
The Lunenburg Property Tax Work-Off  Program offers income eligible senior citizens age 60+ an 
opportunity to receive up to $1,000 off of their property tax bill in the calendar year rather than the 
fiscal year.  Participants worked in various town departments to earn the tax abatement doing general 
office duties, custodial, library shelving, Meals on Wheels, and kitchen assistance. 
For each hour worked a person received $10 and worked up to 100 hours between January 1, 2018 
and November 1, 2018 to receive the abatement.  Any hours worked beyond that were considered vol-
unteer hours. 
There were eight Lunenburg residents who participated between January 1, 2018- November 1, 2018.   
These individuals, as a whole, accumulated 771.25 hours ($7,712.50) towards their abatements. 
Eligibility Requirements: 
*Applicants must be 60 years of age or older 
*Own and occupy a home in Lunenburg as their primary residence for at least one year 
*Receive a property tax bill in their name or their spouse’s name who is also 60 years of age or older 
*Meet the income guidelines of :  One person household - $40,000 / Two person household - $60,000 
*All new applicants are required to have a CORI background check and must re- apply and be accept-
ed annually for participation in the program. 
Earnings are exempt from state taxes only.  Earnings are subject to federal and FICA tax withholdings 
and are also subject to OBRA if participants are not receiving a pension from either Worcester Re-
gional Retirement or Massachusetts State Teachers Retirement. 
Departments who participated between January 1, 2018– November 1, 2018: 
*Lunenburg Treasurer/Tax Collector 
*Lunenburg Board of Health 
*Lunenburg Building Department/Zoning 
*Lunenburg Council on Aging 
*Lunenburg DPW/Sewer Departments 
*Lunenburg Public Library 
 
===PAGE 85===
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 86===
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 87===
87 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 88===
88 
 
 
===PAGE 89===
89 
 
PROTECTION OF PERSONS & PROPERTY 
===PAGE 90===
90 
 
BOARD OF HEALTH 
 
The Board of Health Office is located in the old Ritter Library building on the corner of Mass. Ave 
and Leominster Road.  Our office is on the upper level at the end of the hall on the right.  We can be 
reached at 978-345-4146, extension 430.  
The Board of Health, with the assistance of its agent, the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health , con-
tinued  its mission to maintain its focus on public health and safety issues during 2018, reviewing Title 
V Inspection Reports, building permits, septic and well permits, nuisance investigations, housing in-
spections, complaints and general public health related issues as well as resident concerns.    
The Board of Health oversees the Septic System Repair Program which helps low to moderate income 
families replace failed septic systems or connect to public sewer.  Anyone interested in finding out 
more about this program can contact the Board of Health office. 
Homeland Security planning is ongoing.  Meetings continue between our agents, other Town Depart-
ments and regional entities to develop a plan for not only Lunenburg but with our partner towns in our 
region.   
This year, we processed applications for Septic Permit Lot Tests, permits for new construction, new 
wells, repairs or upgrades to septic systems and well permits.  The Board continues its vigilance with 
regard to septic systems, wells, food service inspections, housing and nuisance complaints and its gen-
eral mandate to protect the environment and groundwater of the Commonwealth.   
The Board of Health provides numerous other services in cooperation with our Health Agents, the 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health. In addition to our environmental services, numerous clinics are 
provided throughout the year to our residents.  These clinics provide inoculations, including Flu Shots, 
Blood Pressure screenings, Well Oldster Clinics and Dental screening. Fluoride treatment and dental 
checks of our youngsters in the School System are provided by the Nashoba dental staff. 
The Town of Lunenburg participates in the Central Mass. Mosquito Control Project.  Mosquito Con-
trol monitors the mosquito population in Lunenburg and advises of any potential diseases such as EEE 
and West Nile Virus and sprays frequently to control the population during the warmer times of the 
year.  Residents who want to have their property sprayed can do so by emailing to:  
cmmcp@cmmcp.org, calling (508) 393 -3055, completing a request on their webpage at:  http://
www.cmmcp.org , or calling the Board of Health office.  This service is free of charge to residents. 
With our Nashoba Nursing and Hospice partners we provide in home visits to ill residents recovering 
from illness and hospice care and counseling to those in need of this service.  
Please contact our office in the Ritter Building for more information.     
Please remember that our Board Members volunteer their time and efforts on behalf of you, the Citi-
zens of Lunenburg.  
If you have something that you think we can help you with, we are at your service. Contact the Board 
office at 582-4146 ext. 430.    
===PAGE 91===
91 
 
 
 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
 
LUNENBURG ANNUAL REPORT 2018 
 
 Nashoba Associated Boards of Health continues to serve the local Board of Health in meeting the 
challenges of environmental and public health needs in Lunenbur g.  In addition to the day to day public health work 
conducted for Lunenburg we also provide the following services. 
 
Maintaining Nashoba’s internet web site to provide information for the public. (See nashoba.org) 
 
Nashoba assisted the Board with providing a flu clinic at the Library to practice their emergency preparedness 
plans. 
 
Response to state mandated changes in regulations requiring more frequent beach sampling through sample 
collection, submittal for analysis, and follow-up when results were obtained. 
 
 We look forward to continuing our work with Lunenbur g's Boar d of Health. Included in the day-to-day work 
of Nashoba in 2018 were the follow-ing:  
  
Through membership in the Association Lunenburg benefited from the services of Nashoba staff including: Regis-
tered Sanitarians, Certified Health Officers, Registered Nurses, Nutritionists, Registered Physical & Occupa-
tional Therapists, Licensed Social Workers, Certified Home Health Aides, and Registered Dental Hygienists 
 
Provided health education programs in collaboration with the Lunenburg Council on Aging. 
 
Collaborated with Montachusett Home Care around elders at risk and other safety issues. 
 
Reviewed 95 Title 5 state mandated private Septic System Inspections for Lunenbur g Board of Health. Received, 
reviewed, and filed these state mandated (but unfunded) Title 5 inspections. Corresponded with inspectors regarding 
deficiencies; referred deficient inspections to Lunenburg Board of Health for enforcement action 
 
 By the Lunenbur g Board of Health’s continued participation in the Association you can shape your future 
local public health programs and share in the benefits of quality service at a reasonable cost! 
 
 

===PAGE 92===
92 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
 
Environmental Health Department 
 
 Environmental Information Responses  
  Lunenburg Office (days).......................................87 
   The Nashoba sanitarian is generally scheduled to be available for the 
public twice a week on Monday and Wednesday mornings at the Lunenburg Board of 
Health Office. Other meetings occur informally. 
  This does not reflect the daily calls handled by the three Nashoba secretar-
ies during daily business hours. 
 
Food Service Licenses & Inspections.....................………36 
 Nashoba annually mails out and receives application from both restaurants and retail 
food businesses.  Licenses are renewed for existing facilities.  Plans are submitted and re-
viewed prior to initial licensing. Most licensees are inspected at a minimum twice a year. 
Where deficiencies are found, a re-inspection is scheduled to insure compliance.  When a 
complaint from the public is received an inspection is also conducted. During this inspection 
health factors of food handlers is also investigated, and where appropriate medical consulta-
tion and laboratory testing may be required. 
  
 Beach/Pool/Camp Inspections.................................................. 20 
  Camps are inspected at least annually at opening for compliance with State Sanitary 
Code, Chapter IV, 105CMR430.00.  Public swimming beaches are sampled for water quality 
weekly during the summer operation and more often if a problem is suspected.   Semi-public pool 
are permitted and inspected 
 
 Housing & Nuisance Investigations...................................7 
  Nashoba, as agent for the local Board of Health, inspects dwellings for conformance 
with State Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410.00, issues orders for correction, and re-inspect for com-
pliance.  Similarly, complaints from residents concerning unsanitary conditions or pollution 
events are investigated.  
 
 Septic System Test Applications.......................................39 
  Applications from residents proposing to build or upgrade a septic system are accepted, 
a file created, and testing dates are coordinated with the applicants engineer. 
  Septic System Lot Tests........................................112 
 Nashoba sanitarian witnesses soil evaluations, deep hole tests, and, usually on a 
separate date, percolation tests conducted by the applicant’s engineer which serve as the 
basis of the design of the septic system. 
 Septic System Plan Applications…………………………40 
  Detailed plans created by engineers hired by residents proposing to build or upgrade a 
septic system are received, filed, and routed to the Nashoba sanitarian for review. 
 
===PAGE 93===
93 
 
Septic System Plan Reviews .........................…….47 
 Engineered plans are reviewed according to state code, Title 5, and local 
Board of Health regulations and review forms are created and sent to engineer for 
revision.  Subsequent re-submittals by the engineer are also reviewed. 
 Septic System Permit Applications (new lots)..........….15 
 Septic System Permit Applications (upgrades)............ 45 
 Applicants’ approved plan submittals and Board of Health requirements are incorpo-
rated into a permit to construct the septic system. 
  Septic System Construction Inspections...........109 
  Nashoba Sanitarian is called to construction site at various phases of con-
struction to witness & verify that system is built according to plans. 
  Septic System Consultations...............................9 
  During all phases of application, design, and construction the Nashoba Sani-
tarian is called upon for legal details and interpretation. 
  
 Well Permits.......................................................................9 
 Water Quality/Well Consultations..................................88 
  Private wells are regulated solely by local Board of Health regulations, The Nashoba 
Sanitarian assist the Board of Health by reviewing well plans, securing well water samples, and 
interpreting water quality test results.  
 
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice 
  
 Home Health 
 
 Nursing Visits .............................................................................. 878 
   
  Nashoba’s Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visits provide skilled services to 
patients in their home under physician’s orders.  These services include assessment of physical, 
psychological, and nutritional needs. Skills include teaching/supervision of medications, wound 
care, ostomy care, IV therapy on a 24 hour basis, catheter care, case management and referral 
to other services as needed. 
 
 Home Health Aide Visits  .......................................................... 401 
  Nashoba’s Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities of daily 
living including bathing dressing, exercises and meal preparation. 
 
 Rehabilitative Therapy Visit .................................... 377 
 
  Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, and dietary thera-
peutic interventions through assessment, treatment and education.  Their integration of client, 
caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at attaining maximum functional dependence. 
===PAGE 94===
94 
 
Medical Social Service Visits ..................................................... 9 
  Nashoba Social Workers provide short-term assistance to  patients at 
home for counseling and referral to community  resources. 
 
  Hospice Volunteer and Spiritual Care Visits……10 
 Nashoba’s Volunteers and Clergy provide patients with emotional and spir-
itual support, companionship and guidance. 
 
Community Health Nursing  
 
 Nashoba’s Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health service to it 
member communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) 16 Standards of Pub-
lic Nursing Practice.  
 
Our staff serves as a resource to the community, addressing questions and concerns from the 
public on a variety of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice, chronic disease man-
agement, safe drug/sharps disposal etc.) in a variety of ways. 
 
We conduct regular well-being clinics for health assessment, screenings and education to all, 
especially the underserved and at-risk populations. 
We report and investigate communicable diseases to formulate and implement control 
guidelines and strategies that protect the health of individual and the community at large 
(mandated by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health). 
We make will-being visits to assess needs, coordinate appropriate care and services and pro-
vide case management as needed (health promotion). 
We provide public health education. 
We address psych-social issues that may impact general health and safety (i.e. hoarding). 
We are available to collaborate with all municipal staff to address public health nursing 
questions, work closely with Councils on Aging to assist elders in the communities and 
are available for consultation with school nurses caring for children and families.  The 
nursing staff also works with the Sanitarian for your community, as needed, to address 
issues of unhealthy living conditions. 
 
 Listed below is summary of the activities of the Community Health Nursing program. 
 
 Nashoba conducted 12 clinics and those clinics offered your citizens: blood pressure screening, 
flu shots and an opportunity to consult with the nurse to address questions. 
 
 Our staff conducted 5 health promotion/well -being/social worker visits in your communities; 
there were 112 direct observation therapy visits provided in addition to the health promotional 
visits. 
 
 We administered 38 flu shots through our annual clinics. 
 
===PAGE 95===
95 
 
 
Nashoba reviewed, investigated and reported on the following cases of communicable diseases from 
your community.  Though the daily reporting and investigating work is not always visible it is 
vital to protect the public from the spread of disease. 
  
 Investigated .................................................................................. 116 
 Confirmed .................................................................................... 77 
 
  
      Communicable Disease Number of Cases 
 
Anaplasmosis 5 
Campylobacteriosis 2 
Group A strep 1 
Haemophilus influenza   1 
Hepatitis B 1 
Hepatitis C 6 
Influenza 56 
Legionella 3 
Salmonella 1 
Yersiniosis 1 
 
 
Dental Health Department 
 
  Examination, Cleaning & Fluoride - Grades K, 2 & 4 
 Nashoba’s Registered Dental Hygienists, operating out of the school nurse’s 
office and records, provide these services to those children whose parents have given 
written consent. 
  Students Eligible.............................................. 355 
   Students Participating....................................186 
  Referred to Dentist.............................................23 
 
  Instruction - Grades K, 1 & 5 
 Nashoba’s Registered Dental Hygienists also provide classroom instruction 
of cleaning and maintaining health teeth to all children in these grades. 
  Number of Programs.....................................11 
===PAGE 96===
96 
 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are dedicated 
to providing the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to the citizens 
of the Town of Lunenburg. 
 
In 2018 your Fire Department responded to 1942 calls for service, broken down as follows:  
Fires & Hazardous Conditions                     452                Emergency Medical      982 
Inspections                  506                 Other                             33 
2018 saw one of the greatest changes in the history of the Lunenburg Fire Department with 
the achievement of 24 hour staffing in the Station.  On August 6 th, 2018 Firefighters Timothy Downey 
and Austin Flagg were promoted to Career Firefighters and joined the existing 4 members as Full Time 
Staff. 
Current Fire Department staffing is now 7 Career and 40-45 On Call Firefighters and Emergen-
cy Medical Technicians, plus 1 full time Administrative Assistant/EMS Coordinator.  The Station is 
manned 7 days per week with 2 Firefighter/Emergency Medical Technicians, plus a 3 rd Firefighter/
EMT Monday-Friday from 8am -4pm.  This coverage is a combination of Full Time personnel in con-
junction with 88 hours per week of per diem coverage.  The per diem coverage is provided by our Call 
Firefighter/EMT’s manning the Station at their hourly rate.  
The call volume in 2018 was a slight overall decrease over 2017, however we.  We also expe-
rienced a 6% increase in Emergency Medical related calls, which is consistent with the growth we 
have seen over the last 10 years.    
We currently operate two Ambulances at the Advanced EMT Level, but must rely on outside 
agencies for assistance with full Advanced Life Support (Paramedic Level) Care.  The first steps to-
wards achieving our own Paramedic service were taken in 2018 with FF Downey beginning training as 
a Paramedic.  It is planned that FF Flagg will begin the training in 2019.  These two members, plus ad-
dition of 3 more Firefighter/Paramedics over the next 3-4 years will allow us to provide service to the 
community at the full Advanced Life Support Level.  Hiring Paramedic Level trained Firefighters and 
equipping the ambulances to that level will bring a higher level of care to our residents in a faster, 
more efficient way.      
Though we have achieved 24-hour coverage in the Station, many EMS calls and nearly all fire 
calls still require more personnel than are on duty in the Station.  This means we still rely heavily on 
the dedication and commitment of our Call Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians.  Our Call 
personnel remain, and will remain for the foreseeable future a vital part of our emergency response.   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 
                   655 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
       CHIEF 
 Patrick A. Sullivan 
 TEL: (978) 582-4155 
 FAX: (978) 582-4033 
 
===PAGE 97===
97 
 
 A new Call Firefighter/EMT must attend over 340 hours of initial training, plus additional 
time in orientation and field training.  Members qualifying to drive Fire Apparatus must complete an 
additional 65 hours of classroom and practical training.  On average, it takes a new member one and 
a half to two years to properly complete these requirements.  Unfortunately, for a variety of reasons 
we often do not retain members for more than 5-6 years.   
In 2018, the Fire Prevention Division conducted 506 Inspections.   This is in addition to multi-
ple fire drills and public education initiatives.  By law, we are required to inspect Smoke and Carbon 
Monoxide Detector installations when a home is sold, as well as all new oil burner and propane gas 
installations.  Any business holding a liquor license is also required to be inspected for fire safety 
issues as well.  In addition, all new construction projects must have their plans reviewed for proper 
fire protection, as well as ongoing inspections during the construction process.  Personnel also con-
tinue to provide fire safety education to not only children in our schools but adults as well.    Other 
Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during 2017 include:  
Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953 to assist with 
Fire Safety Education in both the Schools and with Senior Citizens.  This Grant provides funding for 
both materials and personnel to bring fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations.  
Highlights of activity through this grant include: 
Educational programs in basic fire safety in Grades K -3, including use of the Regional Fire 
Safety Trailer.    
Educational programs in conjunction with the Council on Aging.  These included cooking and 
heating safety, a CPR Demonstration and Ice safety.  
Participation in the Senior Center ’s “Sand for Seniors ” Program.  This program provides 
buckets of walkway sand for Senior Citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the win-
ter months.  In partnership with this program, Captain James Ricci delivers the sand to the residents 
and when possible, inspects their homes for Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detectors.  If the resident 
was lacking detectors, Capt. Ricci is able to install free detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE 
Grant.    
It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or non-
existent smoke detectors. 
During 2018, Call Firefighters Robert Barrett, Melissa Buchanan, Ronald Hyatt and Lorenzo 
Leonardo graduated from the Massachusetts Firefighting Academy ’s Call/Volunteer Training Pro-
gram.  This intensive 4 -month program provides the basic skills firefighters need to operate in to-
day’s challenging environments.  All newly hired Firefighters are required to complete this program 
within one year of hire.  In addition, Firefighter Barrett received the Martin McNamara Award for 
Outstanding Achievement in his Recruit Class.  This award, named after a Lancaster Firefighter killed 
in the Line of Duty is award to the overall top student in each Call/Volunteer Recruit Class. 
 I would also recognize Call Firefighter Timothy Paton.  Tim retired from the Department, 
after 34 years of service to the community.   
Apparatus replacement continues to be a concern.   The replacement for our 30 -year-old Ladder 
truck has been ordered and is expected in the late summer or early fall of 2019.  This unit is ex-
pected to serve the town for 25+ years.  The next oldest unit in the fleet, Engine 4 has been sub-
mitted for replacement on the FY’20 Capital Plan.   
===PAGE 98===
98 
 
This 1995 vintage unit was our primary pumper from its delivery up until 2015.  It has served 
the town well but has seen increasing maintenance costs and downtime due to wear and tear.  In 
late 2018 the unit ’s pump failed, necessitating costly repairs just to return it to operational condi-
tion.  Rescue 2, a 2008 Ambulance has also been submitted for replacement as it is near the end of 
its projected life span.  The high reliability required of front line emergency apparatus becomes in-
creasingly difficult to maintain as these units reach the end of their life span.   It hoped that due con-
sideration will be given to replacing both units.   
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their 
outstanding commitment to the Town.  Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue 
to impress me every day.  I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards and com-
missions for their continuing help.  Most people do not realize the level of interdepartmental coop-
eration that occurs in the daily course of town business.  My thanks also go out to the citizens of 
Lunenburg for their ongoing support of public safety.  It is that support that allows us to continue 
providing the services you expect from us. 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2018 
 
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department+*   
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief   
 
James Ricci, Captain/EMT+    Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT+* 
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT+    Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT 
J. Gregory Massak, Lieutenant/EMT    Christos Lekaditis, Lieutenant/AEMT+* 
Patrick Hakey, Lieutenant/EMT    Michael Byrne, Lieutenant/AEMT* 
Rev. Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain    Karen Weller, EMS Coordinator+* 
 
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT    Carl Gamberdella, FF/EMT 
David Augusta, EMT    Olivia Hayes, Firefighter 
Robert Barrett, FF/EMT    Kristen Hirsch, EMT 
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT    Ronald Hyatt, FF/EMT 
Andrew Bolton, FF/EMT    Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT 
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT*    Taylor Jones, EMT 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT    Lorenzo Leonardo, FF/EMT 
Melissa Buchanan, FF/EMT    Warren Mayhew, FF/Paramedic 
Frank Byrne, FF/EMT    Matthew McAuliffe, Firefighter 
Traci Camelo, EMT    Jordan Melendy, EMT 
Joseph Cardone, EMT    Stephen Morse, FF/EMT 
Charles Colburn, FF/AEMT*    Timothy Paton, Firefighter 
Matthew Cormier, FF/EMT    Tyler Pelkey, FF/Paramedic 
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT+    Ian Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*    Charles Sampson, EMT 
Paul A. Duquette, FF/EMT     
Austin Flagg, FF/EMT+     
     
     
     
     
 
+ Indicates Full Time Staff 
*Indicates member of District 
Technical Rescue Team 
===PAGE 99===
99 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Police 
Department 
2018 Annual Town Report 
Chief James P. Marino 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        CHIEF 
               James P. Marino 
                  TEL: (978) 582-4150 
                  FAX: (978) 582-4159 
 
              
 655 Massachusetts Ave. 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
===PAGE 100===
100 
 
 
Administrative  
Chief James P. Marino 
Public Safety Coordinator Amanda J. Moore 
Lieutenant Thomas Gammel 
 
Patrol Supervisors 
Sergeant Sean Connery 
  Sergeant Josh Tocci 
Sergeant Sean Zrate 
 
Detectives 
Detective Sergeant Jeffrey Thibodeau 
Detective (Vacancy) 
 
Community Outreach/School Resource Officer 
Officer Brad McNamara 
 
Traffic/ K-9 
Sgt. Joshua Tocci 
K-9 Jerry 
 
Patrol Officers 
Officer Robert Diconza, Officer Jack Hebert, Officer Joshua Mathieu, Officer Jonathan Broc,  
Officer Brad McNamara, Officer Kayla Leger, Officer John Morreale, Officer Jacob Lachance, Officer John 
Wagner, Officer Gage Russell 
 
Desk 
Officer Lisa Melnicki 
 
Reserve Intermittent Officers 
Officer Stan Barney, Officer Donald Letarte, Officer Robert Dacosta, Officer Ben Campbell, Officer Lisa 
Melnicki, Officer Chad Stateler, Officer Jonathan May, Officer Zach Levasseur, Officer Erin Considine, 
Officer Kamerin Munroe, Officer Sam Christensen, Officer Ramon Cabrera 
 
 
Animal Control 
Kathleen Comeau 
 
 
New Arrivals 
 
Administrative: Lieutenant Thomas Gammel 
Full Time: Officer Jacob Lachance, Officer Jack Wagner, Officer Gage Russell 
Reserve Intermittent: Officer Kamerin Munroe, Officer Sam Christensen, Officer Ramon Cabrera 
===PAGE 101===
101 
 
With Much Appreciation 
Lt. Michael Luth 
Officer Whitney Mansfield 
Lt. Mike Luth began his career in law enforcement with the Town of Tyngsboro as a patrol officer. He was 
soon elevated to the rank of Sergeant. Mike left the Tyngsboro Police Department to take a job with the Se-
cret Service during the Clinton and Bush administrations. Having a passion for small town policing Mike 
settled in Lunenburg taking a patrol officer position in 2004. Mike was promoted to the position of Patrol Ser-
geant and eventually to Administrative Lieutenant and second in command. He commanded many positions 
including the Court Liaison officer, training coordinator, public records and liaison to the Council on aging 
where he taught self-defense and Senior drivers just to name a few. Mike was responsible for organizing the 
Citizen’s Police academy, and managed the College Internship programs. Mike left the Lunenburg Police De-
partment when he accepted the Position of Chief of Police in the Town of Groton, where he currently resides. 
Mike will be missed around the Police Station, but we are extremely proud of his accomplishments and we 
wish Chief Mike Luth the best of luck.  
Whitney Mansfield was first introduced to the Lunenburg Police Department as a Fitchburg State University 
Criminal Justice Intern. Whitney was immediately found to be highly motivated, kindhearted individual with a 
high degree of integrity, and one who had a keen interest in Law Enforcement. She was immediately taken in 
by the organization and offered a sponsorship to the Reserve Intermittent Police Academy. Whitney attended 
the academy and was quickly offered a position within our Reserve ranks. She was appointed as a Reserve 
officer shortly after graduating from the academy in July of 2017. Whitney quickly became an outstanding 
candidate for a position as a full time police officer. Whitney applied and received a full time position with the 
Bedford New Hampshire Police Department and is currently in training. Whitney will make of fine police 
officer. She will certainly be sorely missed but we are very proud of her and wish her the best of luck with her 
new career.  
About the Police Department 
The Police Department is in operation 24 hours a day 7 days a week.  The department is staffed with the Chief 
of Police supported by the Public Safety Coordinator, and one Administrative Lieutenant. Three Sergeants/
Shift commanders, one of the Sergeants presently assigned to K-9/Traffic enforcement, nine Patrol Officers 
and 11 Reserve Intermittent Patrol Officers make up the patrol unit. Supporting the patrol unit is the Criminal 
Investigation Unit headed by a Detective Sergeant. Within the C.I.U. is the School Resource Officer who is also 
assigned to Community Outreach, and who is accompanied by Hank the Therapy dog. The Lieutenant and 
Public Safety Coordinator are on duty Monday thru Friday between the hours of 7Am and 3Pm. Office hours 
for the Chief of Police are 8Am to 4Pm Monday thru Friday.  
The Animal Control Officer responds to domestic animal calls on a 24 hour 7 day per week basis. The public is 
reminded to report any animal related complaints to the Regional Call Center at (978) 582 -4531. For emer-
gencies, dial 911. More information can be found on the Animal Control Web site at lunenburgma.gov.  
Dogs must be licensed by April 1st annually. Dogs must have a current Rabies certificate to qualify for licens-
ing. This can be done at the Clerk's office in Town Hall, 17 Main Street Lunenburg, MA 01462. Unspayed Fe-
male/Unaltered Male $20 fee. Spayed Female/Altered Male $5 fee.  Late Fee: $25  
The front desk is open Monday thru Friday from 7AM to 7PM.  Emergency, Non -emergency and 911 calls are 
routed through Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District, (NVRDD). For all emergencies, dial 
911. For general calls, please call (978) 582-4531.  
Applications for Firearms Licensing can be found on the Police Department Website at lunenburgma.gov. 
Contact (978) 582-4531 for an appointment.  
===PAGE 102===
102 
 
The State of the Police Department 
The Police responded to 19383 calls for service this year, a 13.7% increase over last year; responded to 315 
motor vehicle accidents, investigated 1070 incidents, 47 Field Interview Reports, wrote 1889 motor vehicle 
citations, arrested 144 people, summonsed 207, and placed 8 people in protective custody. The K -9 was de-
ployed 27 times.  In the first half of fiscal 2017, staff assignments had to be increased 75 times to effectively 
meet service demands. 
The day shift desk officer answered 1741 calls and took 1407 lobby inquiries and complaints between July and 
December of 2018. The day shift desk officer wrote 94 incident reports in 2018.  This year the day shift desk 
watch officer was responsible for conducting suicide watch and assisting with the court processing of 83 de-
tainees; either taken into custody overnight or during the day shift. The day shift desk officer processed 154 
Firearms Licenses, 17 Non FID related fingerprints, and registered 16 Sex Offenders. The 3pm to 7pm desk 
watch officers assisted in the processing of, 50 detainees while providing suicide watch and numerous other 
services including providing support for the patrol staff. 
Calls for service, which will continue to rise, are affected by, not only growth in our community, but the sur-
rounding communities as well. Traffic too will continually increase and will have a direct effect on the amount 
of traffic accidents the police will have to investigate. Environmental factors too play a role in the motor vehi-
cle accident picture. Incidents and arrests amounts are affected by social and economic factors.  
I again emphasize the important of keeping with current growth trends. Growth invariably plays a major role 
in Police Calls for Service, arrests, incidents and motor vehicle accidents. The demands for police services will 
continue to rise and the police department will have to grow in kind.  
Calls for service have increased by 13.6% over last year. Incidents have declined by 16.5%. Incidents are cases 
that do not necessarily result in an Arrest, but require a report and investigation. Arrests are down by 2.9%, 
with motor vehicle accidents increasing by 17.15%.    
Group A crime against Persons are down this year. These crimes include; Rape, Statutory Rape, Aggravated 
Assault, Simple Assault, Intimidation, Kidnapping/Abduction. 
Group A crimes against Property is up 9% this year. Crime against Property include; Burglary/Breaking & Enter-
ing, Larceny, Shoplifting, motor vehicle theft, Forgery, Fraud, stolen property, destruction of property, vandal-
ism.  
Group A crimes against Society have increased by 16%. Crimes against Society include; Drug crimes, Pornogra-
phy/Obscene Material, Weapons law violations. 
Group B crimes have declined by 21% this year. Group B crimes include; Bad checks, Disorderly conduct, Driv-
ing under the influence, Drunkenness, Family nonviolent offenses, Liquor Law Violations, Trespassing, and all 
other offenses.  
Lunenburg is a safe community to live in thanks in large part to citizen input. Reporting crime is key to the 
safety of a Town such as ours. The Police cannot provide effective protection without the citizen involvement. 
I encourage every citizen to report crime as it occurs, without hesitation, as a timely response is vital to the 
successfully outcome of any police investigation. “See something, say something.” 
Thank you again this year for allowing me to manage your Police Department. The necessary funding to sup-
port my request to bring police staffing to a level that will keep up with the demands of growth has been over-
whelming. I ask you to please continue to support our initiatives. The police department endeavors to deliver 
the service the public expects and is entitled to.  
Respectfully Submitted 
Chief James P. Marino 
Chief James P. Marino 
===PAGE 103===
103 
 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 104===
104 
 
 CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE 
 
The Capital Planning Committee has presented the Fiscal Year 2019 plan to the Town  
Manager as required by Charter. The committee has recommended the following items be  
included in the FY 2019 Capital Plan.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Planning Committee 
Damon McQuaid, Chair, BOS Representative 
Heather Sroka, Vice-Chair, School Committee Representative 
Caroline Griffis, Clerk, Member at Large 
John Henshaw, Member, Finance Committee Representative 
Matthew Allison, Member, Planning Board Representative 
Project # Project Title Cost 
Cumulative 
Cost 
PD17-02 Police Vehicles,2 
$112,00
0 $112,000 
PD17-11 Protective Gear $20,000 $132,000 
PD16-09 Duty Gear $11,600 $143,600 
PD16-16 ATV $18,000 $161,600 
PD18-01 Patrol Boat $15,000 $176,600 
LPS16-17 Phone System $30,000 $206,600 
LPS16-19 Asbestos 
$130,00
0 $336,600 
DPW17-05A Utility Pickup $45,307 $381,907 
FM17-08 DPW Roof $65,000 $446,907 
FM18-01 Demo Classroom $28,000 $474,907 
DPW17-o5B Utility Pickup $45,307 $520,214 
        
Total     $520,214 
    
CPC recommends short term (5 year) financing option for  
Ladder Truck ($935,000) and other available funds.  
===PAGE 105===
105 
 
                                                                                    PLANNING BOARD 
Ten ANR plans (land division plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control 
Law, but still requiring Board endorsement) were approved. 
Approved residential subdivisions were in various stages of completion.  Construction was 
completed on Butterfly Lane (a nine -lot subdivision), Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, and 
Stone Farm Estates.  Tri Town Landing received Board approval for construction of Building 
#5, which will consist of 70 units of senior housing.  Tri Town Landing is a 40R project, 
which seeks to increase the supply of housing and decrease its cost by increasing the amount 
of land zoned for dense housing.  Tri Town Landing is a 100% rental complex.    
Construction continued on Massachusetts Avenue for an office and garage for the Lunenburg 
Water District.  Asian Imperial Restaurant received approval for a second parking lot.  Ecolog-
ical Fibers, Inc. received approval for construction of additional office and warehouse space.    
In conjunction with the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC), the Board be-
gan work on crafting a Residential & Commercial Permitting Guidebook.  The Guidebook will 
be funded by the Massachusetts District Local Technical Assistance Program and will facili-
tate permitting by providing easy -to-follow procedures that outline the permit review process 
for homeowners, property and business owners, developers, brokers and contractors. 
The Planning Board proposed and Town Meeting approved a collection of Zoning Changes 
that created a new Use Table and use definitions in Section 250-4.1 of the Code of Lunenburg. 
This Use Table is intended to contemporize and standardize the definition of uses while also 
streamlining residents’ and businesses’ ability to find information.  
Taking into consideration the regulations of the Cannabis Control Commission, the Board be-
gan the process of crafting a recreational marijuana zoning bylaw for May 2019 Town Meet-
ing.    
Michael-Ray Jeffreys stepped down from the Board; Tanner Cole joined the Board.  The 
Board reorganized in June 2018 with Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison and Kenneth Chenis 
continuing in their respective positions of Chair, Vice Chair, and Clerk.    
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
and can be reached at 978-582-4147 extension 5.  Various forms are available online at https://
lunenburgma.gov/ on the Planning Board’s homepage.  The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of 
Lunenburg, MA (which contains the Protective {Zoning} Bylaws), Rules and Regulations 
Governing the Subdivision of Land, and Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Spe-
cial Permits are available online.  The Board continues to work on updating the Zoning portion 
of the Code.   
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair      Kenneth Chenis, Clerk  Tanner Cole, Member 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair      David Prokowiew, Member   
Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
===PAGE 106===
106 
 
Ad Hoc Open Space Advisory Committee to the Planning Board 
The Open Space Committee ’s efforts in FY ’18 revolved around updating the town ’s expired Open Space and 
Recreation Plan.  The Plan was drafted in accordance with Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Envi-
ronmental Affairs Division of Conservation Services ’ (DCS) guidelines and is intended to direct Lunenburg ’s 
efforts to improve and enhance its open space and recreation resources. The Plan is the culmination of many 
months of volunteer work, built with input from all corners of town government and, most importantly, its resi-
dents.  It is not only comprehensive in its scope, but is also measured in its objectives and attainable in its goals.  
The Plan has been submitted to DCS for review and, once approved, will make the town eligible for DCS -
administered grant programs through 2026.  
Partly driven by the Open Space Plan update, the Planning Board also expanded and modified the composition 
of the committee.  We are now comprised of seven members instead of five, with one representative each from 
Planning, Conservation, and Parks and four at -large members.  The diverse representation allows for greater 
collaboration and communication among related land use boards around matters of conservation and recreation 
interest. 
Finally, the Open Space Committee continued its role in reviewing Chapter 61 withdrawals notices for their 
potential open space and recreation value to town and advising other municipal boards of the same.  
Brandon Kibbe, Chair     Richard Brockelman, Member At Large 
David Prokowiew, Planning Board                 Sarah Cammer, Member At Large 
Bob Pease, Conservation Commission                Ashley Maillet, Member At Large 
Karin Menard, Parks Commission  
 
===PAGE 107===
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       Zoning Board of Appeals 
 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard several petitions during calendar year 2018.   There were several applicants seeking 
special permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board meetings are held on the second and 
fourth Wednesdays of the month on an “as needed” basis. 
 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:  Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, J ames Besarkarski, Vice Chairman, 
Members:  Hans Wentrup , Paul Doherty and David Blatt  and Associate member Patrick Callahan .   Lisa Normandin 
serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board. 
 
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows: 
 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-laws. 
 
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws. 
 
3. To hear and d ecide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General Laws, as 
amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or enforcement action 
from the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town , the Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or 
other Administrative Official. 
 
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 
40B.  The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for compreh ensive permits submitted to the Board under 
Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.  These requests can, by law, circumvent local 
zoning ordinances. 
 
The o ffice of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Build ing, 960 Massachusetts Avenue , 
Lunenburg.  Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Tuesday and 
Thursday, closed Friday.  If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978 -582-
4146 X 421 during regular business hours.  Zoning Board applications are available in the office and o nline at 
www.Lunenburgonline.gov. 
 
 
Alfred Gravelle, Chairman 
James Besarkarski, Vice Chairman 
Hans Wentrup, Member 
Paul Doherty, Member 
David Blatt, Member 
Patrick Callahan, Associate Member 
 
     Ritter Memorial Building 
    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
         Phone:  978-582-4146 
         Fax:      978-582-4353 
 Town of Lunenburg 
===PAGE 108===
108 
 
===PAGE 109===
109 
 
EDUCATION 
===PAGE 110===
110 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
                                                  Superintendent’s Message 
It is a pleasure for me to present my first annual report for the Lunenburg Public Schools.  
This report reflects some of what I have learned about the promises and needs of a district I 
am proud to lead.  During the last 6 months, I have been executing my Entry Plan. I have 
conducted forums and one-on-one interviews. I have reviewed many documents.  I have at-
tended numerous school and community events and activities.  I have been able to observe 
the district processes and procedures, tour the facilities and grounds, and most importantly, 
spend time in classrooms observing teaching and learning.  While there is much to be proud 
of, there is also good work to be done to improve the efficiency of operations, strengthen 
curriculum and instruction, and support all learners.  
  
I want to acknowledge that this community has demonstrated its support for the schools by 
supporting two building projects in the last 15 years.  The Lunenburg Primary School and 
Lunenburg Middle/High School are beautiful, modern facilities for teaching and learning.  
A modern facility is; however, but one factor in providing students with a quality education.  
Rigorous programming designed to meet the academic, social and emotional needs of all of 
our students is foundational to a quality learning experience.  In addition to meeting a stu-
dent’s basic needs, we must ensure that the curriculum is well -designed; materials are avail-
able to implement that curriculum; and that teachers have the knowledge and skills requisite 
for effective instructional practice.  All of this must be supported by the use of data to assess 
and monitor student learning. Today ’s classrooms also require the seamless integration of 
instructional technology to create engaging lessons, provide differentiated instruction and 
assessment, and facilitate analysis of achievement data to monitor the growth and support 
the success of all of our students. 
  
I also want to acknowledge that I have experienced a collaborative approach to planning and 
problem-solving with the Town Manager, Heather Lemieux.  I am very grateful for that.  I 
appreciate the effort on the part of the School Committee and the Board of Selectmen to 
strengthen communication and find opportunities to work together.   I trust that, working 
together, we will be able to find ways to meet the needs of the children of Lunenburg. 
Through my transition, the district continues to be focused on implementation of the District 
Strategic Plan (2018-2023).  Our Strategic Goals are: 
  
Goal 1: Social -emotional learning, prevention programs and secure schools provide safe 
environments, promote kindness and celebrate cultural differences. 
Goal 2: Civic learning and engagement enable all students to become knowledgeable citi-
zens and active community members. 
Goal 3: Curricula and assessments in major subject areas are aligned with recent Massa-
chusetts State Frameworks and fully implemented. 
Goal 4: Implementation of digital literacy and computer science curriculum is expanded; 
and, instructional technologies are more available. 
Goal 5: The processes for annual professional development ensure opportunities for well -
targeted individual, school-based, and district-wide professional growth. 
Goal 6: Strategies to improve instructional support for struggling learners are enhanced. 
Goal 7: Enrichment opportunities are expanded to include the arts and other areas of high 
student interest. 
Goal 8: Collaboration and communications within and among the schools and the commu-
nity are improved. 
===PAGE 111===
111 
 
As evidence of continued progress on these goals, we are revising our social studies and his-
tory curriculum to align with the new Massachusetts History and Social Science Curriculum 
Framework; providing professional development at the Primary School in literacy as part of a 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) literacy grant; providing pro-
fessional development in behavioral interventions and supports, and building a strong school 
culture.  We have created district-wide leadership in these areas with the creation of a Behav-
ioral Health Advisory Council, Elementary Literacy Team, and Professional Development 
Committee. 
The MCAS data analysis conducted at the district leadership level indicates a need for con-
tinued focus on curricular and instructional supports in order to increase the achievement and 
growth of our Students with Disabilities subgroup.  Grades 4 and 5, require resources and 
focus on essay writing, specifically on conventions, text types and purposes.  In grades 3 and 
4, we need to target instruction on multiplication and fractions; and in grade 6 on equations 
and inequalities.  
 
This year DESE implemented a new accountability system.  The new system still allows the 
DESE to identify schools requiring assistance or intervention, as well as those demonstrating 
success. Highlights of the new system include: (1) the inclusion of additional accountability 
indicators; (2) a focus on raising the performance of each district ’s or school ’s lowest per-
forming students in addition to the performance of the district or school as a whole; and (3) 
the discontinuation of accountability and assistance levels (Levels 1 to 5). 
Under the new accountability system, annual performance determinations for districts and 
schools will be calculated using Indicators: English language arts (ELA), Mathematics, and 
Science achievement; ELA and Mathematics mean student growth percentile (SGP); four -
year cohort graduation rate, extended engagement rate, annual dropout rate; student progress 
towards attaining English language proficiency; chronic absenteeism, percentage of 11th & 
12th graders completing advanced coursework. 
Indicators are weighted.  Substantial weight for achievement, growth, English language pro-
ficiency, and graduation rate indicators are required by federal law. Federal law also requires 
that these indicators combined should have much greater weight than the additional indica-
tors. Under the new accountability system, the weighting of achievement and growth is based 
on ratios instead of percentages, maintaining the achievement to growth ratio of 3 to 1. 
The chart below shows the Accountability of the district and schools following the 2018 
Spring MCAS. 
===PAGE 112===
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
District enrollment of Lunenburg students has steadily increased within the past four years.  
This is due in part to the number of rental properties that have been built in town. Town 
birth records also indicate increases. 
 
District/
School 
Classification Progress Toward 
Improvement 
Targets 
Accountabil-
ity Percentile 
District Not Requiring 
Assistance or 
Intervention 
59%- Partially 
meeting targets 
-_ 
THES Not Requiring 
Assistance or 
Intervention 
71%- Partially 
meeting targets 
44 
LMS Not Requiring 
Assistance or 
Intervention 
39%- Prtially 
meeting targets 
62 
LHS Not Requiring 
Assistance or 
Intervention 
54%- Partially 
meeting targets 
69 
 
Grade Level Lunenburg 
Resident 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Total 
PK 47 0  47 
K 147 0  147 
1 115 0 115 
2 119  0 119 
Primary Total 428  0 428 
3 121 0 121 
4 116 0 116 
5 136 0 136 
Elementary Total 373    0  373 
6 130 0 130 
7 140 0 140 
8 125 2 127 
===PAGE 113===
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One of the greatest privileges as Superintendent is to honor a hard -working student with the 
Superintendent’s Award.  This year, it was also quite a challenge as there were several hard -
working, high-performing students.  The recipient of the 2018 Superintendent’s Award is Eliza-
beth Walsh.                                     
                                                               School Facilities 
Having completed the second year of operation of the new Lunenburg Middle High School, the 
school electrical, plumbing and mechanical systems have been operating at a high level and all 
post construction issues have been resolved. The focus of school maintenance for FY19 contin-
ues on preventative maintenance on heating and ventilation systems and energy conservation 
measures. The focus of repairs has been on Turkey Hill Elementary School with minor im-
provements such as switch replacement, painting, and other minor items.  All schools were ex-
tensively tested for lead and copper in the drinking water in June 2018 funded by a Mass DEP 
assistance Program for Lead in the Drinking Water. Turkey Hill Elementary School had a num-
ber of positive samples that corresponded to areas where water use was low. Directions were 
given to the school staff to flush taps at the start of the school day, repairs to some fixtures were 
made, and all areas that had positives will be retested in May - June 2019.  The Green Commu-
nity grant received by the Town in June 2018 will be used to fund a weatherization project at 
Turkey Hill Elementary School to seal areas above the ceiling in the administration area and 
connecting corridors, add gasketing to windows and to close several holes from past changes to 
the school. Work is scheduled to be performed in February 2019 by Boston Energy Retrofit 
LLC at a cost of $17,379.00.  Funding was also provided for conversion of Turkey  Hill  
 
    
Middle School 
Total 
395  2 397 
9 124 0 124 
10 110 12 122 
11 93 10 103 
12   100 9 109 
High School Total  427 31  458 
    
  Advanced 
Community 
Experience Program 
(TCP) 
6 0  6 
All Schools Total  1,629 33  1,662 
===PAGE 114===
114 
 
 
Elementary School to LED lighting which was funded at roughly $36,000. This lighting retrofit 
will occur in April 2019.  
 
The FY 19 capital program funded additional asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill Elementary 
School. In July 2018, Air Quality Experts for $145,893.65 removed spray-on fire proofing above 
the ceiling in six classrooms on the first floor of the classroom wing.  This project included removal 
of the splined ceiling and the floor tiles in the classrooms. Turkey Hill Elementary School is 
expected to continue to have additional asbestos removal planned for a number of years.   A request 
for $162,000 for FY20 was submitted into the town’s capital planning process to abate the second 
stairway and the second floor hallway of the classroom wing. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
John Londa, Director of Facilities and Grounds 
Technology Department 
Technology touches all our lives every day at the Lunenburg Public Schools. It is our aim in IT to 
serve our students, faculty and staff proactively, so that the tools used to facilitate learning function 
seamlessly and responsively when needed. From checking email, to accessing class information, 
to connecting and collaborating with students and colleagues near and far, faculty, staff, and IT 
are working together to help redefine what is possible for our students, so they can redefine what’s 
possible for the world. Our annual report highlights the IT team, as well as some of the 
improvements we have made this past year to achieve this goal. 
The IT Team  
Our team continues to learn and grow each year as we improve our infrastructure and explore 
innovations in education technology.   
Steve Malandrinos – Information Technology Director 
 Six years working for the Town and Schools 
 Previously an engineer at Cisco S ystems, IT Director for the Town of Belchertown, MA 
and Belchertown Public Schools 
 
Daniel Nadareski – Network Administrator 
 Retired Police Officer from the Albany, NY police force with over 24 years on the job 
 Prior experience includes computer crime and forensics, network administration, video 
security system administration, and IP phone system administration 
 
Nicholas Scoggins – School Technology Coordinator 
 Received Associate and Bachelor of Science degrees from ITT Technical Institute 
 Served 5 years as Security System Administrator at Greater Lawrence Technical School 
 
Jordan Pochini – Tech Support Specialist 
 Graduated from Fitchburg State University with a degree in Computer Science 
===PAGE 115===
115 
 
 
 Prior experience includes both individual contributor and management roles in retail 
environments 
As planned, this year we added grade nine to our one -to-one Chromebook program, freeing up 
several Chromebook carts previously used by that class.  With a bit of creative redeployment, and 
by purchasing a very small number of additional Chromebooks, we wer e also able to add grade 
eight to the program, for a total of five grades and about 625 Chromebooks in the program.  
Feedback on the Chromebooks has been overwhelmingly positive from students and faculty alike, 
and we plan to continue the program for as lo ng as funds are available to sustain it.  We also 
deployed a new iPad cart at the Primary school for use by the Kindergarten class, as well as a new 
Chromebox lab in the library at Turkey Hill for use by all grades.   
 
Our ultimate goal remains to provide the tools necessary for faculty, staff, and students alike to 
facilitate the learning process in a secure, highly-available, and high-performing environment, and 
to always just ‘make IT work’. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Steve Malandrinos, Information Technology Director 
 
Special Services Department 
 FY18 (data taken from 2017-2018 school year) 
From the March 1, 2018 report (SIMS Report 5-Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), 
there are 266 students with disabilities receiving special education or related services in Lunenburg 
(last year there were 275).  This represents 16.2% of our total student population of 1,637 students 
(it was 16.9% last year).  The state average from the 2018 school report card is 17.7%.  From the 
March 1, 2018 report (SIMS Report 7-SPED Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), the total 
number of students receiving services outside the district was 14 (last year was 14).  Of the 14 
students, 6 are placed in Collaborative Placements, 5 are in Day Placements and 3 are in 
Residential Placements.  Our Advanced Community Experience Program (ACE), which serves 
students ages 18-22years old, had 9 students enrolled last year.  Additionally, from the March 1, 
2018 report, 118 students identified with a disability received accommodati ons via 504 plans in 
Lunenburg (last year was 103).   
This year as a district, our overall Accountability and Assistance Level is NOT 
REQUIRING ASSISTANCE OR INTERVENTION with the Primary School (Insufficient data), 
Turkey Hill Elementary School (Not requi ring assistance or intervention), Lunenburg Middle 
School (Not requiring assistance or intervention), Lunenburg High School (Not requiring 
assistance or intervention) and the Advanced Community Experience Program (Insufficient data).  
The state report card  lists the district’s determination of need for Special Education technical 
assistance or intervention for Students with Disabilities in Lunenburg as “Meets Requirements 
(MR)”.  Students with Disabilities participated in MCAS this year with the following r ates:  
English Language Arts = 98% (it was 99% last year), Mathematics = 98% (It was 99% last year), 
and Science = 100% (It was 97% last year).  We “Met Target” for all areas of participation.  This 
data can be found at the DESE website:  
===PAGE 116===
116 
 
 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&
orgtypecode=5& 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole 
Special Services Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are 
targeting each year.  For our Indicators, the following information is available below and also can 
be found at: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2016 -2017 school year, the state target for Students with 
IEPs was 86% (was 84.0% last year). Lunenburg’s rate was 94.1% (was 73.9% last year) and the 
overall state rate was 72.7% (was 71.8% last year) for Students with IEPs.   
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2016-2017 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs 
was 2.4% (was 2.7% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was 2.0% (it was 1.8% last 
year) and the overall state rate was 2.5% (was 2.6% last year).   
Indicator 3C  – Proficiency Rate for Students  with IEPs on MCAS.  For the 2017 MCAS, 
Lunenburg Students with Disabilities SS ratings were as follows: 
  Grade 3 – Reading:   Lunenburg = 477.1 State = 481.0   
 Grade 3 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 484.8 State = 481.2 
  Grade 4 – Reading:   Lunenburg = 475.0 State = 480.9 
 Grade 4 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 478.5 State = 478.8 
  Grade 5 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 475.9 State = 480.5  
 Grade 5 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 473.5 State = 481.5  
  Grade 6 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 484.7 State = 480.1  
 Grade 6 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 482.7 State = 479.6 
  Grade 7 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 487.7 State = 479.0  
 Grade 7 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 483.6 State = 478.2 
  Grade 8 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 475.1 State = 478.3  
 Grade 8 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 477.4 State = 479.7  
For the 2017 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities CPI ratings were as follows: 
Grade 5 Science/Tech/Eng: Lunenburg = 50.0 State = 56.8 
Grade 6 Science/Tech/Eng: Lunenburg = 45.2  State = 48.5 
Grade 10 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 90.8 State = 88.8  
 Grade 10 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 85.5 State = 71.1 
===PAGE 117===
117 
 
 
All Grades – Sci/Tech/Eng: Lunenburg = 57.3 State = 59.1  
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, 
our rate was 0% (last year it was .7%).  The state rate was .7%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records 
significant discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2017, 
Lunenburg was not found to have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.  
Indicator 5 -  Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2016 -2017, the 
state’s rates are as follows:  for Full Inclusion of s tudents = 63.3%, Partial Inclusion = 15.7%, 
Substantially Separate Placements = 13.9%, and for Separate Schools/Residential 
Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 7.0%.  In Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:  Full 
Inclusion = 64.9%, Partial = 17.3%, Subs tantially Separate = 10.9% and Separate schools, 
Residential, etc. = 6.9%.  
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3 -5 with IEPs.  The 2016-2017 state 
rates showed the percent of students receiving a majority of their special education an d related 
services in a Full Inclusion early childhood program was 53.7%, in a Partial Inclusion Program 
was 20.1%, a Substantially Separate Placement (special education class, separate school, or 
residential facility) was 16.7%, and students not attending  an early childhood program but 
receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was 9.5%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood 
Full Inclusion rate was 27.5%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 30.0%, Substantially Separate rate 
was 27.5%, and Related Services was 15.0%. 
Indicator 7 – Early Childhood Outcomes.  Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as 
part of a 4 year cycle in which they report exit data on children for whom they have collected 
entry level data; exit may occur at any time during the subsequent three year period as the 
children leave the preschool program.  Lunenburg did not have a cohort completion year in 
2016-2017. 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving 
special education who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving 
services and results for students with IEPs.  For 2016 -2017 the state target was 85.5%.  
Lunenburg’s rate was 91.3% and the state’s rate was 82.9% (from information collecte d in the 
Spring of 2017).  
Indicator 9 & 10 -  Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and 
in Special Education Categories.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no 
disproportionality found in either case.  
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   This indicator measures the % of children with 
parental consent to evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established timeline. Data is 
reported for all initial evaluations initiated in October, November, and December of the reporting 
year.  Lunenburg was rated 100% in compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 
100% 
===PAGE 118===
118 
 
 
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred 
by Part C, found eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and 
implemented by their third birthdays. The state target for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg 
is noted as “Suppressed”.  Data is suppressed if the number of students referred by Part C and 
found eligible for special education services is fewer than 10. 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 
100%.  This indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that 
includes appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based upon 
an age appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that 
will reasonably enable the student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals 
related to the student's transition services needs.  Lunenburg was last reviewed in this area in 
2015-2016 and was 100.0% in compliance.  
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % 
of students with IEPs who exited high school during the 2015-2016 school year and self-
reported post-school engagement in education or employment one year after leaving high 
school. Engagement is defined through three measurements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year 
of leaving high school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education 
or training program; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within 
one year of leaving high school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters 
engaged in a post -secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2016 -2017 
school year, state targets for the three measurements of Post-School Outcomes are Measurement 
A: 51%; Measurement B: 86%; and Measurement C: 93%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows (from 
reporting year 2014-15):  Measurement A = 50%, Measurement B = 75%, and Measurement C 
= 75%.  
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues  to be an 
active support group for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and community 
members can join the group, which currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I 
services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are typically held the first Friday of 
each month, 11:00AM, in the Planning Room at the Middle School.  The executive board is 
made up of Chairperson: Kelly Harvey. Several events and presentations were organized by the 
PACSAL for both parents and teachers  in Lunenburg this year. For more information, go to: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services/pacsal?authuser=0 
In conclusion, the Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special 
needs services to meet the varying needs of our students in the least restrictive environment.  We 
have an experienced, hard-working staff that works together with parents to provide these varied 
services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to develop challenging and focused 
educational programs for children.  We remain committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools 
mission, “The mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, 
confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful 
===PAGE 119===
119 
 
  
careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.” This is a total community effort and we 
encourage ALL Lunenburg residents to join with us to create positive experiences and futures for 
our children.      
For additional information, please visit our website at: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services, or contact Julianna 
Hanscom, Director of Spe cial Services, Special Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts Ave, (978) 
582-4100, ext. 305. 
Respectfully Submitted,    Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
 Lunenburg School Lunch Program 
Lunenburg School Food Service and Turkey Hill Elementary School has a new Cafeteria Manager. 
Please join us in welcoming John Terho, John brings 20+ years’ experience in the food service 
industry. We also welcome Danielle Leblanc, Valerie Martin and Dalia Marzuca to our team as 
well. 
A huge thank you to Pam Vallee for her hard work on our webpage located at 
www.lunenburgschools.net/school-lunchfood-services Here you will find information about our 
program such as a user guide for the online payment site Revtrak along with other pertinent 
information regarding our program.  
We were delighted to cater the boys and girls Varsity and JV soccer banquet this fall.  Check out 
the Catering menu on our webpage and let us cater your next event.  
We are testing Cycle menus this year running 3 different 5 week cycles through the school year, 
Cycle menus are proving to be to quite helpful in menu planning, purchasing and production.  
We are very thankful to everyone for the continued support of our lunch program. 
 
Lunenburg Primary School 
The Lunenburg Primary School is an early childhood education center for students in preschool to 
second grade.  Our students range from three years old to eight years old. Our school community 
is made up of students, teachers, parents and support staff working together to maintain a learning 
environment that focuses on the academic and social emotional needs of the whole child.  
 
The October 1, 2018 student enrollment reported to the Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education was 422 students.  Currently our Preschool program services 48 three and four year old 
students. We have six Kindergarten classes servicing 147 students. Class si zes in our 
Kindergartens are at 24-25 students.  This year we  have five grade one classrooms servicing 115 
students with class sizes between  21-24. Five second grade classrooms have 119 students with 
class sizes ranging from 23 to 25 students.   
 
Our professional development has centered on literacy instruction this year.  In early October we 
received notification from Governor Charles D. Baker that the school was awarded a FY19 Early 
Grades Literacy grant of $6,520.  This grant funded teacher participation in an extensive 
professional development opportunity that included three statewide literacy institutes and follow-
up regional meetings.  We explored the development of language in young children (birth-9); the 
role language plays in literacy; and the content of the Massachusetts ELA/Literacy Framework 
Standards for Language.  
===PAGE 120===
120 
 
 
Teachers discussed strategies to engage early grades students in reading, writing, talking, and 
thinking about the content they are learning in order to promote language development.  The grant 
team shared information with grade level teams throughout the year. In September and November, 
the general and special education teachers participated in two full day Project Read workshops 
focused on phonics. Project Read applies sound/symbol knowledge to spelling and reading 
comprehension using targeted multisenso ry activities and direct instruction.  This professional 
development was designed to enhance the instruction we provide for K -2 students each day at 
school. 
   The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system 
to insure that all students have the services they need to be successful.  Common assessments are 
completed in the fall, winter, and spring for all children in grades K -2 in the areas of reading, 
writing, and math.  These common assessments serve to monitor  the effectiveness of teacher 
instruction and the progress of students.  Struggling students are identified for additional support 
in Reading, Math, Speech, Occupational and Physical Therapy. 
 
Our staff works to maintain a school culture which is positive,  inclusive, and supportive of each 
of our members. This year we have collaborated with Dr. Curt Bates of Seaside Educational 
Consultants to identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats in our school practices and 
culture.  He is guiding us to focus on a few areas that can really enhance our overall school culture.   
The Primary School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns.  Serving as an 
advisory group to the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget 
and developing the school improvement plan.   
 
Members of the Council for the 2018-2019 school year are: 
Interim Principal:    Stephen McKenna 
Assistant Principal   Chad Adams 
Teachers:      Vickie Barbier, Christa Palma  
Parents:         Tiffaney Tavares (Co-chair), Jared Perrine, and Laura         
                                                             Forde 
Community Representative:     Julie Bertram 
School Committee Rep:     Wendy Bertrand  
After a 34 year career in education, I retired from my work as a school principal in 2015.  I was 
pleased to be given the opportunity to serve as interim principal at the Lunenburg Primary 
School this year.  Engaging on a daily basis with the youngest learners in our school district 
makes me smile every day.  Collaboration with new Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Kate 
Burnham, has been rewarding and energizing.  I look forward to supporting the next principal as 
he or she makes the transition to the role of the school’s instructional leader.    
 
For more information about the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit 
our website:  https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Stephen McKenna, Interim Principal 
===PAGE 121===
121 
 
 
                                          Lunenburg Primary School 
                                              Staff Roster 2018-2019 
 
Central Office  Second Grade Teachers 
Steve McKenna, Principal  2A-Vickie Barbier 
Chad Adams-Asst. Principal  Ellie Lorigan - Para 
Denise Galloway-Admin Secty  2B-Jackie Favreau 
Lisa Lavery-School Nurse  Amy Cowley - Para 
Karyn Savell - Guidance Counselor  2C-Sara Kenney 
Karen Tata - Office Clerk  2D-Maria Courtemanche 
Pre-School  2F-Nancy Chapdelaine 
Sherrie Flynn - Teacher   
Patti McColl - Para  Physical Education/Health 
Ashley Basile-Osgood - Para  Gen Nass 
Ita Murphy - Teacher  Art/Library 
Susie Barney - Para  Lori MacDougall 
Patti McColl - Para  Music 
Sue Finnegan - Para  Katie Swenson 
Achieve  Technology 
Christine DeFelice-Teacher  David Ng 
Shelly Muth   
Nicole Gentillela  Special Education 
Laurene Broden - Para  Laura Refrigeri 
Laurie Xarras - Para  Michelle Withers 
Kindergarten  Kristin Anthony 
K1-Kirsten Snape - Teacher  Reading Specialist 
Pat Siciliano - Para  Karen Rash 
K2-Carly Surette - Teacher  School Psychologist 
Serene Pease  - Para  Alison Alves-Pigeon 
Samantha Gray - Para   
K3-Sheila Bilotta - Teacher  Paras 
Julie Drake - Para  Sue Ahearn - 2nd/grade 
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher  Marci Donahue - 1st grade 
Monique Mola - Para   
K5 - Nancy Murray - Teacher  
 
 
Specialists 
Sara Call - Para  Mary Sieling - Speech 
K6 - Amy Raffaele  Sue Richards - Phys. Therap 
Tracey DeAngelis - Para  Jayne Dusek - COTA 
 
First Grade Teachers  Maggie Porpora - Occup Therap. 
1A - Michael Courtemanche   Kristi Schkuta  
1B - Nicole Bienvenu  Elena Oksanish 
1C - Kara Courtemanche  Cafeteria 
1D - Christa Palma  Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager 
 
===PAGE 122===
122 
 
 
Alicia McAllister - Para  Karolyn Braman 
1E - Justin Sparks  Dalia Marzuca 
Nico Robuccio - Para  Laura McKenzie 
  Custodians 
  Chuck Swift 
  Darren Rosa 
  Shawn Sproul 
  Extended Day 
  Tammy Perry 
  Annette Queen 
 
                                             Turkey Hill Elementary School 
                                                              
Turkey Hill Elementary is now in its third year as a 3-5 building. There are currently 372 students, 
with 121 third graders, 115 fourth graders, and 136 fifth graders.  We employ 24.5 teachers, 100% 
of whom are licensed in their assignment area. Our student/teacher ratio is 15.2 to 1, including the 
special area and specia l education teachers, not as an average homeroom size.  Our MCAS data 
from the spring of 2018 indicates we are meeting or exceeding expectations above state averages 
in the following areas:  Grade 3 Reading at 59%, Grade 4 Math at 51% , Grade 5 Math at 47% and 
Grade 5 Science at 50%.  There are teaching teams of 2 at each grade level as well as self-contained 
classrooms in grades 3 and 4.  Special area classes include art, music, PE, library, technology, 
computer skills, and for 5th graders, developmental guidance.   
Teachers are engaging in a variety of professional development trainings.  To address physical and 
mental health concerns there’s been training in Trauma, Mindfulness, Epilepsy, and Executive 
Functioning.  To improve literacy, teachers have taken classes in Calkins Units of Study, Reader’s 
Workshop, and Project Read.  Math teachers have participated in several hours of preparation in 
the Everyday Math platform as well as IXL math.  A full day of professional development in 
November was dedicated to computer literacy and software offerings.   
We offered many after school activities for students in the winter and spring last year.  Over 100 
students signed up for cooking, student council, crafts, paper making, board games, kickball and 
garden art.  We had the Girls on the Run program both in the spring and fall with between 15 -25 
participants and a chess program taught by a chess master which includes about a dozen students. 
$6100 was raised during our annual Penny Wars event to support funding for a  variety of field 
trips and in-house performances.  5th graders spent a week in Beckett, MA enjoying the Nature’s 
Classroom program.  The Bridges program introduced students to several senior citizen volunteers 
who came in to share their life experiences and learn about the younger generation.  The six week 
program culminated in a walking field trip to the Eagle House to celebrate the bonds that had been 
created and allow students to tour the senior center.  In June they attended a Worcester 
Braveheart’s baseball game at Hanover Park and took in the activities for Baseball in Education 
Day.  In the fall, grade 5 teachers instituted regular walking field trips to the public library every 
month so students could become familiar with one of Lunenburg’s best public resources.   
===PAGE 123===
123 
 
 
4th graders went to Moose Hill to learn about land formations and the effects of erosion.  They 
welcomed the Boston Museum of Science out for a day of fossil study.  3 rd graders took a trip to 
the Concord Museum to learn about the early colonists as well as to Monty Tech for a performance 
of The Nutcracker.  They learned about weather patterns from a Museum of Science visit.  The 
TIGER performances from Plymouth State University provided a program to Grades 3 and 4 about 
how to be a good friend and how to speak up when others aren’t being well treated.   This was 
underwritten by a generous grant from the Maki Foundation.  The Zoomobile came out from 
Southwick Zoo to give 3rd graders an up close introduction to some exotic animals.   
North End Subaru in Lunenburg once again gifted our school with dozens of non -fiction, high 
interest titles about science.  They include such titles as: This Book Stinks! Gross Garbage, Rotten 
Rubbish, and the Science of Trash; Try This! 50 Extreme  Fun & Safe Experiments for the Mad 
Scientist in You; and Magnets Push, Magnets Pull.  We are grateful for their continued support as 
well as several other community organizations:    the PTO , whose fund s allow all students to 
participate in field trips and financed the purchase of a six month trial program to IXL Learning , 
the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club who provided scholarships for Nature’s Classroom 
and regularly provides food donations fo r students at Extended Day, BoxTop collectors and 
counters, Hannaford Helps supporters, Community Reader day volunteers, parents (both those 
who support their children at home as well as those who donate hours to school), our Veteran’s 
Day and Memorial Day guests and guest speakers.  In December with the blessing of our School 
Advisory Council, we agreed to participate in the Kylee’s Kare Kits for Kids program in 
Leominster.  This offers our students in need weekend bags of food, including winter and spring  
break and summer vacation.  This officially piloted in January 2019.   
With the addition of a new music teacher in September, we have created a band program for grade 
five students.  There are over 30 students who participate and learn their instruments in sectionals 
and as part of a full band twice weekly.  Their holiday concert in December was a rousing success 
and included a small but melodic chorus.  In the future we hope to expand that program to include 
4th graders as well.  3rd graders are introduced to instruments through recorder instruction.  Students 
also have the opportunity to participate in an after school music program to learn piano, guitar, etc.   
As an elementary school we understand that our mission extends far beyond the academic.  We try 
to promote positive and civil interchange and empathy for others.  We teach and reinforce coping 
strategies, self-regulation skills, and calming techniques.   We welcome new students and staff 
who join us throughout the year on our hallway bulletin board.  We use age appropriate picture 
books at each grade to introduce students to diverse cultures and expand their understanding of the 
world.  We teach responsible digital citizenship in an era where soon they will be inundated with 
social media.  We celebrate the positive role models that exist in our school community with 
student-of-the-month acknowledgements.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Heidi Champagne 
Principal, THES 
                                     
===PAGE 124===
124 
 
 
                                         Turkey Hill Elementary School 
                                             Staff Roster 2018-2019 
Admin/Office/Nurse  Grade 3 
Heidi Champagne  Janet Marshall 
Chad Adams  Nicholette Dumont 
Laurie Cooney  Amy Harrington 
Meghan Marrone  Danielle Celona 
Front Office Phone  Lisa Bakaysa 
Guidance   
Gail Okerman  Grade 4 
Alison Alves Pigeon  Erin Blanchette 
Special Areas  Gina Cote 
Nathanael Blankenship  Heather Witham 
Julie Ferdella  Charlotte Letendre 
Heidi Quinlivan  Lynn Marabello 
Victoria Whipple   
Learning Center/Special Education  Grade 5 
Ana-Sofia Fernandes  Michael Smith 
Amy Jones  Brian Chartrand 
Lynn Major  Jeff Cournoyer 
Patricia Kilcommins  Meghan Roberge 
Cynthia Rosancrans  Sherri Borreson 
Laura Wyld  Rhonda Connery 
Kristi Schkuta   
Elena Oksanish/Ashley Parent  Achieve Programs 
Maggie Porpora  Kate Robinson 
Paraprofessionals  Melody Henry 
Debra Hitchcock  Nora Renzi 
Tiana Nygren  Alison Melvin 
Kerry Roder  Custodians 
Judith Pierce  Tim DeBettencourt 
Veronica Kimmens  Howard Hargreaves 
Kathleen Cordeiro  Dominic Dilorenzo 
Carrie Arciprete  Rob Roy 
Liz Johnson  Joe Tamalavitch 
Cafeteria  Ben Pellerin 
John Terho   
Sheryl Ewen   
Danielle LeBlanc   
Jennifer Bidleman 
 
 
 
  
 
===PAGE 125===
125 
 
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs 
that support students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child 
becomes a self -motivated, creative, lifelong learners in a safe, stimulating environment that 
encourages diversity and open honest communication.   The dedicated and accomplished staff of 
professionals within the school embraces the philosophy of educating the whole child 
academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by which all students become 
positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in high school and beyond. 
 Lunenburg Middle School is in its third year as a co -located middle- high school serving grades 
six through eight in a beautiful facility. Our effective middle school model is student centered and 
provides opportunities to explore a variety of different interests and talents through special area 
and enrichment classes and extracurricular activit ies. One of our goals is for students to discover 
something they are passionate about and want to continue exploring as they move through high 
school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for students that foster critical 
thinking and prob lem solving skills that prepare them for high school and beyond or what their 
passion may lead them to.  
% of Students scoring in the meeting or exceeding expectations 
range Spring 2018 MCAS                                                         
  
             GRADE                 SUBJECT    LMS            STATE   DIFF                SGP   
 
      6       ELA                   50%            51%                 -1                      50 
      6      Math                   60%         47%    +13                   59 
 
      7       ELA                   51%         46%                  +5                    53 
      7      Math                                 56%             46%    +10                    48 
 
                    8                        ELA                                    61%            51%                 +10                   50 
       8                        Math                                  60%             50%                +10                    58 
                    8                      Sci and Tech/Eng               53%            35 %               + 18                   N/A 
 
 
===PAGE 126===
126 
 
 
In reviewing the results of the 2018 Spring M.C.A.S. tests, our percentage of students scoring in 
the meeting or exceeding expectations range remains strong and above the state average in 6 of 
the 7 tested areas in the middle school. The Department of Elem entary and Secondary Education 
provides an accountability rating for all schools and districts in the state based upon next 
generation MCAS testing. Lunenburg Middle School accountability rating for 2018 is designated 
as not requiring intervention, partially meeting goals. 
 Although we are proud of our students’ performance, we continue to analyze data in our monthly 
results faculty meetings designed to improve our instruction for all students. Our faculty has 
identified areas of improvement based upon the data and implemented strategies to improve their 
instructional practices that will help students succeed.   
We continue to utilize intervention and power blocks during the school day to meet the needs of 
each individual student. These blocks of inst ructional time that have been built into our master 
schedule to allow teachers time to work with students at their own individual skill level.  The 
philosophy is to challenge students who are high academic achievers as well as strengthen skills 
for students who have identified weaknesses. Teachers are able to work with students in a small 
group to answer individual questions or provide more individualized support.  We design this 
support model to allow students to feel more confident, thus, perform better in the classroom.  We 
will continue to refine our intervention block times to best meet the needs of our students. One 
option for students during this intervention block is the use of our web based program called IXL. 
IXL allows students to work at their ow n skill level, build confidence and moved forward with 
work that is aligned with the state standards. IXL allows teachers a tool for true differentiation for 
every student allowing them to work and grow at their own pace and level.  
Lunenburg Middle School  continues to offer enrichment blocks for all students. Enrichment 
classes provide students a block of time in which they receive instruction in the areas of 
developmental health and guidance.   Students also receive instruction in physical education, art,  
and music classes that allows them to explore their strengths and talents. Students also have the 
opportunity to sign up for and participate in band and chorus during this block. This enrichment 
block is in addition to the traditional special area classes  students receive, and this block offers 
students additional physical movement throughout the day, additional opportunities for hands on 
activities and more exposure to the arts, theatre and technology throughout the school day.  
We make a positive impact on the students we serve by offering a variety of different programs 
developed to promote social and emotional growth, self -awareness, and community service. We 
will continue to utilize Developmental Design program to deliver our social emotional curriculum. 
Students meet with teachers in small groups to teach social responsibility and problem solving, as 
well as developing empathy and promoting positive self -esteem and strong teacher/student 
relationships. Our social emotional programs have been developed to allow students to showcase 
their talents and abilities, grow and improve as individuals, and promote community outreach for 
the younger generation. 
===PAGE 127===
127 
 
 
This year, we have been able to offer foreign language exploratory to our sixth and seventh grade 
students, giving them the opportunity to explore several different foreign language options in order 
to make an informed decision on which language they would  like to take in grade eight and high 
school. The addition of the foreign language instruction has been well received and the students 
enjoy exploring different cultures and languages. We also provide students the opportunity to 
direct their own learning w ith a program called Genius Hour. Genius Hour fosters a passion for 
learning back into the curriculum by having students facilitate their own learning based on their 
interests.   
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that 
ensure student success and promote a passion for lifelong learning. The key components to our 
success is our talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and 
community who support our teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us 
through their commitment to learning. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of 
students.   
===PAGE 128===
128 
 
                                                 Lunenburg Middle School Staff Roster 2018-2019 
Administration   
 
Administrative Assistant:   Tina Cooney 
Principal: Tim Santry   
Secretary:  Deb Aro  
Secretary:  Katie Berry 
Dean of Students: Karma                        
Tousignant   Specials 
Guidance   Nicole Therrien (PE)  
Karma Tousignant   Jennifer Rios (PE)  
Cheryl Nelson   Geoffrey Sheldon (Music)  
    Dana Belair (Tech)  
Ashley Parent (Speech)   Robin Warren (Art)  
Lori Shea  (Psychologist)   Jessica Cormier (FL)  
Mary Young (BCBA)   Special Ed. Middle School: 
Health Office   Maura Lizek, 6th 
Katie McGuire      Melanie Mobley, 7th 
Achieve:Middle School   Brittany Pepoli  8th 
Jaime Moore   Maggie Porpora (OT) 
Heather Small   Susan Richard (PT) 
6th Grade:   Custodial 
Beth Arsenault   Jeri Sampson   Head Custodian 
Emily Clarke   Richard Karfve 
Susan Reardon   Marc St. Jean 
Melanie Pouliot   David Ashness 
Kristine Bassett   Tanner Cote 
7th Grade:   Bill Henning 
Michael Workman   Paraprofessionals 
Tim Sheasgreen   Judith Barone 
Krista Diamantopoulos   Anne Marie Beaudoin 
Dawn Grebinar   Darlene Caron 
Katherine Antaya    Kathleen Hyatt 
Lisa Leblanc   Christine Catalini 
8th Grade:   Terry Klingler 
Martha Sullivan   Sandra Sheehy 
Meredith Cormier   Karen Smith 
Mary Whitaker   Nina Sobecky 
Amy Raboin   Meagan Rodrick 
Linda Collette   Marybeth Ulf 
Will Guerra    Kelly Waterman 
Technology IT:   Jamie Cuddahy 
Nick Scoggins   Nick Ross 
    Cafeteria: 
    
Patty Pichnarcik / Eleni Tsiakalos/Carol 
Hamilton/Sarah Romano/Stella Carlson 
 
===PAGE 129===
129 
 
 
Lunenburg High School 
2018-2019 
 
Lunenburg High School has been a hub for academic and social activity in 2018 -2019.  Teachers 
continue to provide our students rigorous coursework and hold our students to high standards.  Our 
students meet these challenges through collaboration, self -advocacy, and strong work ethic.  All 
students in grades 9 -12 have been issued a Chrome Book and there are wireless capabilities 
throughout the building.  Every classroom and instructional space has an interactive projector and 
voice-lift capabilities. Our students are fortunate to be in a building that can meet the needs of the 
21st century learner.   
During the fall sports season, our students practiced and competed on our three grass fields and 
new artificial turf field.  The youth sports teams in the community were scheduled on  the fields, 
as well.  During the fall season, most of our fields were being used from 3:00 pm to 8:00 pm.   
The winter season has been very busy, as well.  The gym and weight room are being used for a 
large portion of the afternoon and evening by our basketball teams, indoor track and field teams, 
and students and community members in the Adult Education Program.  Additionally, we have 
athletics teams practicing and competing at: Wallace Civi c Center, The Groton School, Nashoba 
Valley Ski Area, and at Fitchburg High School.  Our actors and actresses have been rehearsing 
since January for the Competitive Class Plays. 
NEASC ACCREDITATION 
Lunenburg High School is currently going through the accre ditation process.  Lunenburg High 
School is currently working on the five priority areas for the NEASC school growth plan. The five 
Priority Growth Areas are: Curriculum Maps, Professional Growth/Development, School Civic 
Engagement, Instructional Practices, and Emergency Response Procedures. The five areas we are 
currently working on to produce a report for our NEASC accreditation. The final accreditation 
visit will be conducted in 2020 and will look at how well we are making progress on our growth 
plan. 
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 
 
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of fundraising 
and collection endeavors. In the spring, a canned goods drive will be held and admission to the 
PowderPuff game will cost two canne d goods.  Everything collected will be donated to the 
Lunenburg Food Pantry.  Around the holiday season, advisories, LEA, STUCO, NHS and 
numerous other agencies collected items for the Lunenburg Gift Card Mart Drive.  
A Senior English class called community service learning component is a class in which students 
are tasked with researching and identifying needs in the community and then forming an action 
plan to address the needs.  For example, we have students working on: careers that do not require 
college level degrees.  This is to help students make a career choice that does not require a college 
degree. 
===PAGE 130===
130 
 
 
In March, the National Honor Society will be having its annual Blood Drive.  Students sixteen and 
over (and staff members) will be able to participate in the Blood Drive with parent permission. 
LHS has held evening presentations for parents/guardians on the following topics: 
 Planning for High School (grade 8) 
 Early College Planning (grades 9-10) 
 Post-Secondary Education Planning (grade 11) 
 College Application Process (grade 12) 
 Financing your Education/Financial Aid (grades 8-12) 
 
LHS hosted 40 college ad missions counselors in the school counseling office to visit with LHS 
students.  In addition, we held two “Decision Day” programs with Fitchburg State University and 
Mount Wachusett Community College. 
MCAS RESULTS 
We are pleased to announce that Lunenburg High School is recognized by the Department of 
Elementary and Secondary Education as a Level 1 school.  As a Level 1 school, we continue to be 
among the highest performing schools in the Commonwealth.  School percentiles (1 -99) indicate 
how a school is performing overall compared to other schools that serve the same or similar grades. 
Our school's percentile is ranked in the 69 th percentile. We are very proud of the work that our 
students and teachers have done to prepare for the MCAS test.  While we are recognized as a high 
performing school, we understand this is only one measure used to show student growth and that 
there is constantly room for improvement. 
Lunenburg High School - 2018 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Average (Adv/Pro) 
ELA 98% 91% 
Math 83% 78% 
Science/Technology 87% 74% 
 
We are extremely proud of our students and teachers for their continued improvement, and we will 
work to move all students to the level of proficiency as measured by MCAS and our goal of college 
and career readiness as they move through our curriculum.   
We were also very pleased to learn that 29 seniors at Lunenburg High School received the state’s 
John and Abigail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose 
MCAS performance puts them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must 
either score Advanced on one exam and Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English 
and Math exams.    
===PAGE 131===
131 
 
 
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
Homecoming was once again a great town -wide celebration, culminating with a beautiful parade 
complete with floats representing all four high school classes.  Many of our sports teams qualified 
for tournament and district play.  The Lunenburg High School Marching Band participated in three 
competitions for the first time in the fall.  The LHS Mock Trial had strong performances with 
many new freshmen.  The Latin Club, Jazz Band and the Math team represented LHS in numerous 
competitions; the 53nd annual Competitive Class Plays delighted the audience, and The Pops and 
Senior Showcase are scheduled for the spring.    
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
 
National Honor Society successfully supported the “Gift Card Drive” during the holidays, helping 
to provide joy to needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies.  The World 
Hunger Task Force will be raising money through Penny Wars this spring.  The money will be 
donated toward the fight against hunger. 
In March, the National Honor Society will be running its annual Blood Drive.  Students and staff 
participate in the drive.  Our NHS students are looking to add a second date and expand the blood 
drive for Lunenburg community members. 
CURRICULUM 
The staff at Lunenburg High School focused their professional deve lopment activities in 2018 -
2019 working on vertical teaming, curriculum mapping, and technology.  The large focus of 
professional development has been on the NEASC Accreditation process. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Rob McGrath, Principal 
===PAGE 132===
132 
 
 
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2018-2019 
Principal Robert McGrath Admin. Assistant Tina Cooney 
Assistant Principal Annica Scott Secretary Debra Aro 
Nurse Carolyn Finch Secretary Katie Berry 
 
Math   Language Arts  
Sarah Sabatini Dept. Liaison Mary Foyle Dept. Liaison 
Andrew Cantatore  Erinanne Burroughs  
Jennifer Miller  Timothy Macuga  
Eric Short  Michael Hannigan  
Casey McNally  Paul Harmon 
Julia Callahan 
 
    
Science  Social Studies  
Dawn Gearin Dept. Liaison Warren Stevenson Dept. Liaison 
Mitchell Friedman  Bradford Hausler  
Craig Pingsterhaus  Timothy Normandin  
Jennifer Biery  Hailee Martin  
Robert Hill  Timothy Macuga  
Richard Cohen    
  Nick Scoggins IT Dept.  
Joanne Poirier 
 
Greenhouse Asst. 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Language 
 
 Unified Arts 
Alexis Pukaite 
 
Dept. Liaison 
Peggy Proctor Dept. Liaison Steven Boone  
Jessica Beardmore  Derek Guimond  
Tamara Yourk  Caryn Wardwell  
Jimena Punales-Santiago      Nathan DiPerri  
Lynn Radford  Karyn Giuliani  
 
===PAGE 133===
133 
 
 
 
 
Special Services 
  
 
James Bunnell 
 
 
Athletic Director 
Joshua Koziol Dept. Liaison Darlene Steele Athletic/Secretary 
Jessica Walker 
Keri Mackinnon 
Amanda Duggan                              
  
Pamela Vallee 
 
Media Specialist 
 
Jennifer Stadler  Guidance  
Ashley Parent 
Todd Foster 
Jaime Millett 
Mary Young     
Lori Shea                                                            
Speech/Lang. 
 
Social Worker 
BCBA 
School Psych 
Susan Cavaioli 
Jeff Dionne 
Cheryl Nelson 
Penney Borneman                     
Guidance Secretary                     
Dept. Liason 
Paraprofessionals  Cafeteria  
Ethan Cheesman  Patti Pichnarcik   Café Manager                     
Jon Malloy  Carol Hamilton  
Kimberly Monsini  Stella Carlson  
Lisa Szocik- Maillet 
Tina Stateler 
Joseph Adamowicz 
Mackenzie Flagg 
Lyndsi Smith 
Lauren Portillo 
Michael Barry 
Jose Martinez 
John Sodano 
 
 Eleni Tsiakalos 
Sarah Romano 
Custodians 
Geraldine Sampson 
Richard Krafve 
Marc St. Jean 
Jim Gentilella 
 
Tanner Cote 
 
 
 
===PAGE 134===
134 
 
 

===PAGE 135===
135 
 
Schools across North Central Massachusetts are filled with eager students, talented educators and sup-
portive administrators, all working together toward common goals:  student achievement and academic 
excellence.  While students and teachers at Monty Tech work together toward these goals daily, they 
also strive to achieve vocational-technical proficiency, assuring our graduates have a choice when they 
graduate:  to pursue college or a career or both.  As college costs continue to rise, and the need for 
qualified tradespeople is expanding across our region, having this choice is becoming increasingly im-
portant.  Preparing our students to make this choice is a privilege, and so we remain committed to 
providing the best possible educational programs for our students.  
Monty Tech academic programs are effectively serving students at all levels, as indicated on the most 
recent MCAS scores:  95% of students earned Advanced or Proficient scores in ELA, 85% earned Ad-
vanced or Proficient scores in mathematics, and 82% earned Advanced or Proficient scores in Biology.  
Student performance on this exam met or exceeded state -determined targets in every subgroup.  
Teachers continue to refine curriculum, incorporate new instructional strategies, and challenge every 
student to reach new levels, and we couldn’t be prouder of the results. 
School leaders also closely monitor each of the school ’s 21 vocational programs, to ensure they align 
with current industry standards, and that they continue to prepare students for entry -level careers in 
their chosen field.  Whether it means purchasing new equipment, incorporating new certifications or 
credentials into the curriculum, or seeking new educational partners, vocational instructors and school 
leaders work collaboratively to ensure vocational programs at Monty Tech are among the most com-
prehensive, current, and innovative programs across the Commonwealth.   
The 2017-2018 school year was marked by countless reasons to celebrate our students and staff, who 
consistently demonstrate vocational excellence and innovation.   
Students and instructors in our Carpentry, Electrical, Plumbing, Masonry, HVAC and Property 
Maintenance, and Cabinetmaking trades completed a two -year long project – a 7,500 sq. ft. building, 
now home to the school ’s newest vocational program, Veterinary Science.  This project was funded 
entirely by private sector donations, gifts, local, state and federal grants, and in -kind support in the 
form of donated materials and labor, and deep discounts on building materials and supplies.  School 
officials raised an unprecedented $2.6M to support the establishment of the Monty Tech Veterinary 
Science program - a tremendous accomplishment that reflects the support our community continues to 
provide our students, faculty and staff.  
The Monty Tech Veterinary Clinic is not the only new and exciting opportunity available to our stu-
dents.  The school was recently awarded a $500,000 Skills Capital Grant, to improve the Engineering 
Technology, Electrical, and CAD/Drafting & Design programs.  This generous grant has allowed in-
structors to create two innovative learning spaces, intended to replicate working and learning environ-
ments maintained by industry leaders in advanced manufacturing and automation.  Using this new 
equipment, students will prepare to become manufacturing technicians, robotics technicians, automa-
tion technicians, moldmakers, and CNC machinists at local corporations, filling the existing skills gap 
across these industries.  
While students and instructors across the school continue to demonstrate creativity, innovation, and 
leadership, school leaders continue to keep an eye on emerging trends in vocational education.  As we 
prepare these talented students to make important life choices, we are reminded that in the end, the 
choice is theirs to make:  college or career or both.  It is our job to support their aspirations and to edu-
cate and train them to achieve at the highest possible level.  On behalf of our talented educators and 
administrators, who remain focused on delivering the highest quality academic and vocational -
technical education possible, I am delighted to present the District ’s 2017-2018 annual report to you, 
providing a snapshot of the wonderful experiences happening on a day -to-day basis here at Monty  
Tech. 
Respectfully submitted, 
===PAGE 136===
136 
 
Our Mission 
 
Every student will graduate from Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School with the skills, knowledge, and 
abilities to be a productive and effective member of an ever-changing society. 
 
 
Our District 
 
Montachusett Regional Vocational  Technical School is a four -year career and technical high school serving the 
member towns of: 
 
Ashburnham  
Ashby 
Athol 
Barre 
Fitchburg 
Gardner 
Harvard 
Holden 
Hubbardston 
Lunenburg 
Petersham 
Phillipston 
Princeton 
Royalston 
Sterling 
Templeton 
Westminster 
Winchendon 
 
 
Leadership 
 
The leadership team at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is comprised of ten talented 
administrators whose varied educational backgrounds, professional experiences, and areas  of expertise contribute 
to the success of the school. Working collaboratively, and under the direction of the Superintendent and 
Principal, the team has transformed the scho ol into one of the most sought -after high schools in North Central 
Massachusetts. 
 
Sheila M. Harrity, Superintendent-Director 
Tom Browne, Principal 
Dayana Carlson, Assistant Principal  
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager  
Pamela Pothier, Director of Technology 
 
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs 
Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Programs 
Michael Gormley, Director of Facilities 
Katy Whitaker, Development Coordinator 
Victoria Zarozinski, Director of Student Support Services 
 
 
                                                      Enrollment 
On June 1, 2018, student enrollment at Monty Tech included 1,387 students in grades nine through twelve, rep-
resenting each of the district ’s eighteen sending communities. Each class of students is comprised of a relatively 
equal balance of male vs. female students, and each student attending Monty Tech has elected to do so, prepared 
to explore an interest in one of the school’s twenty-one rigorous vocational-technical programs. While the school 
currently offers only five programs non -traditional for male students, and twelve programs non -traditional for 
female students, we are proud to have a student population that is well - balanced by gender and a variety of aca-
demic interests and achievements. 
===PAGE 137===
137 
 
Throughout 2017-2018, Monty Tech offered a variety of opportunities for students, parents, and community members 
to learn about and visit the school. In October 2017, approximately 700 district eighth graders participated in the 
annual “Tour Day” event. Students toured our twenty vocational - technical areas and learned about the school’s 
challenging academic offerings and exciting athletic and extracurricular programs. Career Awareness Night offered 
interested students the opportunity to return in the  evening with their family members to further explore the facilities 
and speak with staff members. 
 
The Vocational Interest Program (V.I.P.) offers area seventh and eighth grade students the chance to visit Monty Tech 
after school and participate in hands -on l earning experiences across a variety of vocational/technical areas. The 
program continued to attract a large number of students during the 2017 -2018 school year, serving approximately 600 
area students. 
Class of 2018 Awards 
 
Members of the Class of 2018 we re awarded approximately $97,000 in scholarships. The Monty Tech Foundation 
generously provided $37,250 in scholarships to graduating seniors, ranging in amounts of $100 to $2,600. The 
Foundation also awarded $3,240 to the Practical Nursing graduates. Once  again, local and state organizations, as well 
as generous individuals, continue to recognize the ability and potential of Monty Tech graduates in the form of 
financial donations. The School Committee, administration, faculty, and graduates themselves, are  grateful for this  
support. 
 
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play an important role in helping reduce the cost of higher education. 
Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits through a number of articulation agre ements with 
public and private colleges across the country. Approximately 57% of the graduating class of 2018 reported plans to 
enroll at a 4 -year college/university upon graduation. By earning college credits while still in high school, these 
students will save both time and money as they pursue advanced educational programs. 
 
Financial Report 
A great deal of effort was put forth by the School Committee, administration, and staff to develop a cost - effective 
budget for the fiscal year 2017 -2018.  The final  fiscal year 2017 -2018 Educational Plan totaled $26,895,680, which 
represents a 2.0% increase over the 2016 -2017 Educational Plan. The District’s FY17 budget exceeds the minimum 
spending required by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 70 by only $41,379 or .2%. 
 
The District was audited in November 2018 as part of the yearly financial audit by the accounting firm of Melanson, 
Heath and Co. from Greenfield, MA, and received a very good report. 
 
58
27
88
43
335
169
3
72 65 71
2 19 24 13
64
95
68
154
17
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Ashburnham
Ashby
Athol
Barre
Fitchburg
Gardner
Harvard
Holden
Hubardston
Lunenburg
Petersham
Phillipston
Princeton
Royalston
Sterling
Templeton
W
estminster
W
inchendon
Out-of-District
2017-2018 Total Enrollment By Town
