===PAGE 138===
138 
 
                                     
Grants and Contracts 
 
Monty Tech continues to pursue grant funding on an annual basis. These funds help provide many educational and 
social services to the student population. For fiscal year 2018, state and federal grant sources provided the school with 
$991,611. Programs funded by these grants include: Essential Health Services, Social Intervention and Mediation, 
Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services and Program Improvement, Title I Support, Perkins 
Occupational Education, and Marine Corp  Junior Reserve Officer Training.  The District also received more than 
$508,000 in competitive grants, including a Skills Capital Grant for $495,000 to purchase equipment for the Electrical, 
Engineering and CAD/Drafting and Design programs, and a grant fr om the Community Foundation of North Central 
Massachusetts in the amount of $13,919 to expand the school’s continuing education program to include an Oil Burner 
Technician training program. Using these allocation and competitive funds, the school was able to purchase a variety 
of instructional technology, equipment, and supplies to enhance the  learning experience across both academic and 
vocational programs. 
 
 
Academic Achievement 
 
In 2017 -2018, students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School  continued to demonstrate high 
academic achievement, earning commendable MCAS scores in English Language Arts, Mathematics and Biology. For 
Spring 2018, Monty Tech’s passing rate on the English Language Arts was 100%, Mathematics 96%, Biology 98%. 
 
Monty Tech is committed to providing students with rigorous STEM learning opportunities, and so in recent years, the 
curriculum has been expanded to include Advanced Placement Programs (two ELA courses, two mathematics courses, 
two science courses, and one comput er science course) and teachers have participated in meaningful, high -quality 
professional development which will enable us to roll -out two Project Lead the Way biomedical courses in the 2018 -
2019 school year.  
 
The school is in its 6th year of administering Advanced Placement exams, and students enrolled in AP courses 
continue to improve their performance.  In 2017-2018, Monty Tech had forty-six students achieve qualifying scores, 
earning advanced standing and/or college credit.  More than half of the students who tested in the following subjects 
received qualifying scores: AP Computer Science Principles (66%), AP Chemistry (53%), and AP BC Calculus 
(100%).  In addition, the AP Chemistry program experienced the most growth in terms of qualifying score as their 
passing rate increased by 44.7% from 2017 to 2018. 
100%
96% 98%95%
85% 82%
5%
11%
16%
0%
4% 2%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
ELA Math Science
2018 MCAS Perfor mance
Passing
Advanced/Pr oﬁ cient
Needs Impr ovement
Failing
===PAGE 139===
139 
 
 
 
AP Exam Results, 5 -Year Review 
 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 2017-2018 
Total AP Students 69 57 89 145 120 135 
Number of AP Exams 69 62 116 187 148 133 
AP Students with Qualifying Scores  36.2% 57.9% 52.8% 26.9% 44.2% 48.9% 
Qualifying Scores (State)  72.6% 72.2% 70.9% 70.5% 69.7% 69.9% 
Qualifying Scores (Global)  60.9% 61.3% 60.7% 60.3% 60.3% 61.3% 
Courses Offered 2 2 3 5 7 7 
Data provided by College Board July 2018 
Vocational Projects in the District Communities 
Unlike students in traditional, comprehensive high schools, students at Monty Tech are asked to put their educa-
tion into practice on a daily basis.  Students across the twenty different vocational -technical education programs 
are building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service vehicles, making walkways more ac-
cessible, and performing countless community services.   
The 2017-2018 school year was a busy one for our vocational educators, as each trade aimed to provide practi-
cal, hands-on learning experiences for our students, while helping to improve each of the eighteen member com-
munities.   
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology :  The Monty Tech Auto Body shop benefited from new instructional 
equipment this year.  Eight new welding stations were installed, allowing instructors to expand the welding cur-
riculum in an effort to better align with industry standards.  New textbooks and a new nitrogen welder were criti-
cal as instructors worked to implement a more extensive plastic welding program.  In addition to the 100+ com-
munity service projects completed last year, students and instructors repaired a trailer for the Westminster Police 
and clear coated the 9/11 Memorial for the Fitchburg Fire Department.  Seniors received their EPA 6 H Certifi-
cate, I-Car Pro Level 1 in Refinishing and Non -Structural Repair. And, for the fourth consecutive year, Monty 
Tech Auto Body students won the coveted World of Wheels Pedal car competition.  Seven students earned co -op 
placements, and one Senior traveled to Louisville, KY, competing in the SkillsUSA national competition in June 
2018. Instructors are incredibly proud of his performance, as he was won at the national level and has qualified 
to compete in the Collision Repair World Competition in Russia, scheduled for summer 2019. (Total student 
enrollment: 65) 
Automotive Technology:  As in past years, the Monty Tech Automotive Technology program continues to ser-
vice a variety of vehicles.  Over 400 vehicles were serviced and repaired during the 2017 -2018 school year, in-
cluding vehicles brought in by faculty, staff, public, school and students.  Students performed extensive repairs, 
to include head gaskets, timing belts, and various other technical repairs.  Thanks for funding provided by the 
school’s Perkins grant, every student enrolled in the program earned at least one industry -recognized certifica-
tion, and Senior students were able to participate in the widely renown ASE Testing.  A total of eight students 
earned co-op placements throughout the school year, which is a testament to the strength of the program, that 
continues to be the areas premier workforce pipeline for area automotive dealerships and businesses.  (Total stu-
dent enrollment: 70) 
Business Technology:  Monty Tech’s Business Technology program continues to benefit from a unique partner-
ship with Workers Credit Union.  The opportunity to participate in teller training and financial literacy work-
shops has been met with great enthusiasm from students, who completed 9 modules and earned a financial litera-
cy certificate.  As a member of the Massachusetts Schools Bank Association through the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston, Monty Tech students are able to compete in the Banking Bowl and Marketing Competitions. Monty 
Tech Business Technology instructors, in collaboration with their post -secondary colleagues, continue to refine 
and develop new articulation agreements.  These agreements, with Mount Wachusett Community College and 
New England Institute of Technology, will provide qualified students with college credits at no cost to the stu-
dent.  Students are eligible to receive 18 credits from Mount Wachusett Community College and 16 credits from 
New England Institute of Technology. Opportunities to demonstrate customer service, cash handling, and ac-
counting skills are ever-present as the Business Technology students successfully operate an in -house retail loca-
tion, The Gear House School Store, and the Monty Tech Greenhouse.  Seven Seniors and nine Juniors were out 
on co-op placements during the 2017-2018 school year.  (Total student enrollment: 68) 
===PAGE 140===
140 
 
Cabinetmaking:  Students and instructors in the school ’s Cabinetmaking program spent a majority of their time 
during the 2017-2018 school year manufacturing, assembling and installing classroom cabinets, clinic casework, 
and solid surface countertops in the school ’s new Veterinary Science training center.   Sophomore students craft-
ed 400 maple bread boards with a purple heart accent strip for guests at the 2018 Superintendent's Dinner.  Up-
perclassmen fabricated two credenzas and a bench for Mount Wachusett Community College.  These unique 
pieces were made from the reclaimed maple trees that were cut from the site of their new science wing.  Students 
and instructors completed an additional 40+ projects throughout the school and surrounding communities, to in-
clude:  three canopy gutter enclosures for the Veterinary Center, a wall of upper cabinets and a computer station 
for the Electrical shop, two base cabinets and maple doors for Machine Technology, and 36 cosmetology nail 
tables for Cosmetology.  A total of 14 students (9 seniors and 5 juniors) earned co -op placements.  (Total stu-
dent  enrollment: 70) 
 CAD/Drafting & Design :  The Monty Tech CAD/Drafting & Design program is increasingly busy each year 
with outside projects, completing miscellaneous signs and banners for community sports events, craft fairs, and 
non-profit events.  Students also played an instrumental role in 2018 Superintendent's Dinner, designing the lay-
out and décor for this annual fundraising event, and ended the year by designing and installing signage through-
out the building for the 2018 graduation exercises.  A total of six students were awarded co -op placements, work-
ing and learning in area businesses.  Four students advanced to the SkillsUSA states competition, representing the 
program well.  Over the course of the 2017 -2018 school year, CAD/Drafting & Design students achieved over 
100 industry-recognized certifications in AutoCAD, Inventor, Revit, and Solidworks.  Program instructors were 
instrumental in the success of the school ’s 2018 Skills Capital Grant application, and, as a result, the school was 
awarded $500,000.  A portion of these funds will be used to establish a fabrication lab for 3D printing, 3D scan-
ning, Injection molding, CNC work, and Laser cutting. (Total student enrollment: 62)  
 Cosmetology:  The Monty Tech Cosmetology program welcomed a new instructor for the 2017 -2018 school 
year, Stephanie Delphia, whose considerable experience in the field, and business acumen as a salon owner, 
brought fresh perspective and valuable lessons to the students enrolled in the program.  Students and instructors 
in the program provided numerous community services, including basic manicures to the residents at Heywood 
Wakefield Commons, services to parents who work with disadvantaged children, and numerous walk -in clients.  
Senior students held three staff appreciation nights, raising funds so that they could travel to New York's Interna-
tional Hair show.  Eleven seniors earned co -op placements - the largest number of Cosmetology students placed 
in the program ’s history.  Finally, for the second consecutive year, every senior successfully passed the Massa-
chusetts Cosmetology State Boards, earning licenses to practice.  (Total student enrollment: 87) 
Culinary Arts:  Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and instructors are always busy with the daily operation of the 
Mountain Room Restaurant, which is open for lunch from 11:30 am to 1:00 pm Monday through Friday.  In addi-
tion to operating a full -service restaurant and bakery, serving 90 -120 patrons daily, culinary students showcase 
their talents throughout the year, providing outstanding service at events that include the following: two Program 
Advisory Committee dinner meetings, four Monty Tech Foundation breakfasts, Monty Tech ’s Retirees holiday 
luncheon, a graduation reception, the Women in Technology event, Principal and Counselors ’ Day, the Monty 
Tech homecoming dance, MAVA meetings, all School Committee meetings and sub -committee meetings, Gard-
ner AARP luncheon and MHCC volunteer luncheon.  Community service opportunities for students are always a 
highlight, and this year our students prepared meals for Our Father ’s House, and NEADS events.  Students and 
instructors also prepared and donated pastry and baked goods to the House of Peace and Education in Gardner. 
The program’s greatest undertaking is always the Annual Superintendent ’s Dinner scholarship fundraiser, during 
which students work side -by-side with some of the area ’s finest chefs, preparing a six -course dinner with exten-
sive hors d’oeuvres for more than three hundred guests.  Culinary Arts students value industry -recognized creden-
tials, and were proud to earn Allergen Awareness and ServeSafe Certifications. A senior student was recognized 
by the Massachusetts Restaurant Association with a $10,000 Scholarship to Johnson & Wales University. (Total 
student enrollment: 95) 
 Dental Assisting:  A critical component of the Monty Tech Dental Assisting curriculum is the preparation for the 
Dental Assisting National Board certification exams.  Every sophomore passed the DANB Infection Control ex-
am, and every senior passed the DANB Radiology exam.  In addition, all senior students successfully completed 
two full-mouth x-rays on live patients during the affiliation experience, meeting a state requirement for program 
completion.  Three students (one senior and two juniors) earned co -op placements, while the remaining 22 stu-
dents participated in affiliation/externship experiences in area dental clinics and offices.  Students and instructors 
welcomed Community  
===PAGE 141===
141 
 
Health Connections, a school-based dental hygiene program, and provided dental services to more than 60 students 
in need.  Monty Tech Dental Assisting students were given valuable hands -on experience, assisting the staff from 
CHC during each dental procedure performed. Junior students provided dental education to students at Winchen-
don Memorial Elementary School and Meetinghouse Elementary School in Westminster, and two sophomore stu-
dents delivered a presentation on oral care to community members at Gardner Golden Age.  (Total student enroll-
ment: 54) 
Early Childhood Education :  Students and instructors in the Monty Tech Early Childhood Education program are 
committed to community service activities, and the 2017 -2018 school year was no exception.  In addition to study-
ing early education and care concepts, students worked collaboratively to raise funds for Lucy's Love Bus, an 
agency that provided grants for children with cancer that are not cover by health insurance; helped various clubs 
raise funds for SkillsUSA Change for Children; provided gifts for a child through Kylee's Kare Kits; and provided 
supplies to Department of Children & Families, in support of foster families taking in infants in emergency situa-
tions.  Two outstanding program graduates earned their CDA (Child Development Associate) credential, and the 
Monty Tech Child Care Center continues to operate at full capacity with a waiting list, providing meaningful 
hands-on learning opportunities for all students in the Early Childhood Education program.  (Total student enroll-
ment: 60) 
Electrical:  Throughout 2017-2018, students and instructors in the Monty Tech Electrical program completed all 
wiring the school’s new Veterinary Science Training Center. This included all underground raceway installations, 
as well as installing conduits within the walls for all the wiring throughout the building.  Program graduates are 
entering the trade at a prime time, as the electrical contracting business continues to reach new heights. To that 
end, program instructors worked diligently to place as many students on Co -op as possible, preparing them for a 
seamless transition from school to work.  The program continued to support the building maintenance department 
by repairing numerous small electrical issues throughout the building.  Program instructor, Dean Lepkowski, 
worked closely with several program advisory committee members to develop a proposal for the school ’s 2018 
Skills Capital Grant application.  Their efforts resulted in an outstanding grant application and an award of 
$500,000, a portion of which will be used to establish a state -of-the-art A.R.M. (Automation, Robotics, and Mech-
atronics) Lab, responding to regional workforce needs, student interest, and the critical shortage of high-quality 
electronic system control and fabrication training programs in the area.  (Total student enrollment: 82) 
 Engineering Technology :  The Engineering Technology program at Monty Tech is a rigorous program, infused 
with nationally certified curriculum provided by Project Lead the Way, and countless hands -on learning opportuni-
ties that provide students with opportunities to demonstrate creativity, make connections with prior learning, and 
earn college credits.  During the 2017 -2018 school year, 13 sophomore students took the Introduction to Engineer-
ing end -of-course assessment, and performed quite well.  Seven students earned college credits, with scores of 
Advanced or Proficient.  Eight juniors took the Principles of Engineering and Computer Integrated Manufacturing 
assessments, and six earned college credits in both areas.  In addition, all freshmen completed the OSHA 10 -hour 
General Industry training.  Engineering program instructors were pivotal in determining the equipment and materi-
als that should be included in the school ’s 2018 Skills Capital Grant application, and, as a result, the school was 
awarded $500,000.  A portion of these funds will be used to purchase a robotic arm, 3D printers and related soft-
ware, which will benefit the program for years to come.  (Total student enrollment: 41)  
Graphic Communications :  Throughout the 2017 -2018 school year, the students in Monty Tech ’s Graphic Com-
munications shop produced numerous projects for our district cities and towns, and a variety of non -profit organi-
zations in the district.  In total, student successfully produced approximately 400 orders, saving cities, towns and 
non-profit organizations more than $200,000.  The program welcomed 24 freshmen students to the shop, one of 
whom earned a gold medal at the SkillsUSA district competition.  The program was enhanced with the addition of 
new equipment, which included a popular wide format printer.  Of the 21 talented seniors who graduated from the 
Graphic Communication program, 18 were accepted into colleges/universities and three chose to enter the work-
force in related careers.   (Total student enrollment: 87) 
Health Occupations:  The Health Occupations program at Monty Tech continues to educate a large number of stu-
dents, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and practice.  A unique collabora-
tion with Mount Wachusett Community College enables Senior students to participate in an Emergency Medical 
Technician training program, earning eight college credits at no cost; 11 Seniors completed the EMT Course in 
2017-2018.  In addition, 15 seniors earned co-op placements, and 24 seniors received their clinical medical assis-
tant certificate.  Every junior enrolled in the Health Occupations program earned CPR certification, as well as a 
certificate in dementia care  
===PAGE 142===
142 
 
from the Alzheimer's Association.  Students and instructors in the Health Occupations program are particularly 
invested in community service, and as a result, students hand -made veteran's day cards and sent them to Bed-
ford VA Hospital; bought gifts and clothing for the Fitchburg Community Christmas party; hosted an Ameri-
can Red Cross Blood drive; and held a “Baby Shower ” benefiting Battered Women's Resources, Inc. (Total 
student enrollment: 107) 
House Carpentry:  In addition to completing construction of the school ’s new 7,500 sq. ft. Veterinary Science 
training center, students and instructors in Monty Tech ’s House Carpentry program supported a number of 
community organizations, by building and installing window boxes, picnic tables, and even dugout benches for 
Quabbin Regional High School ’s softball field.  Students also handcrafted countless Adirondack chairs for 
charitable donations. A total of nine students (five seniors and four juniors) earned co -op placements through-
out the school year, while all sophomore students successfully completed the OSHA 10 -hour Construction 
training, which enables the students to work on outside projects and qualifies them for the school ’s popular co-
op program in their junior year of study.  (Total student enrollment: 59) 
HVAC & Property Maintenance :  Students and instructors in the HVAC & Property Maintenance program 
were pivotal in the completion of the new Veterinary Science training center, installing more than 1,000 feet of 
combined non-potable water, drain and refrigerant lines throughout the building.  Five VRF wall units and 14 
VAV modules designed to heat and cool the building were also installed.  Students earned National EPA Certi-
fication for refrigerant recovery, and a total of 12 students (8 seniors and 4 juniors) were placed in area busi-
nesses through the school’s popular co-op program.  Instructors worked throughout the year with colleagues at 
partner institution, Mount Wachusett Community College, in an effort to share and align curriculum to a newly 
proposed post-secondary program at the college, a partnership that would yield benefits to program graduates 
in the form of articulated credits and/or advanced standing in the post -secondary training program.  (Total stu-
dent enrollment: 58) 
Information Technology : The Information Technology program continues to offer students more industry -
recognized certificates than any other program at Monty Tech.  It is an accomplishment our instructors are so 
proud of, as these certifications affirm the technical skill proficiency needed for so many entry -level careers in 
networking and information technology.  All Freshmen completed their OSHA 10-hour General Industry train-
ing, and completed their VEX Robot Certification. The Sophomores have the opportunity to pass the IC3 Cer-
tificate Exam for basic computer hardware, software, and internet knowledge and skills.  All Sophomores also 
passed the Test-out PC Pro Certificate exam and the Cisco IT Essential course for computer repair and mainte-
nance, and the introduction to Networking course. Eight exceptional Sophomores also earned COMPTIA A+ 
credentials. All Juniors completed the Linux Essentials course, and five passed the CIW Advanced HTML5 & 
CSS3 Certification exam.  All Seniors and one Junior completed the Linux Essentials course, and all Seniors 
also completed the Python Programming course.  Seniors who were not placed in the co -op program were able 
to participate in the AP Computer Science Principles course, which resulted in four students earning qualifying 
scores.  A total of nine students earned co -op placements, applying their technical skills in area businesses.  In 
total, more than 400 hours of community tech support was completed, which involved hardware and software 
troubleshooting on desktops, laptops, printers, and mobile devices.  (Total student enrollment: 61) 
Machine Technology:  The 2017-2018 school year brought new technology, curriculum, and a renovated in-
structional space to the students and instructors in the school ’s Machine Technology program.  As recipients of 
a $435,000 Skills Capital Grant, instructors were able to train students in precision measurement, and granted 
more than 300 certifications to students accordingly.  The program also received an additional $12,000 Gene 
Haas Scholarship Grant, and used those funds to sponsor four students in advanced training endeavors, and 
award two college -bound students substantial scholarships.   All freshmen received their OSHA 10 -hour gen-
eral industry certification, while 12 upperclassmen earned co -op placements, working and learning in area ma-
chine shops.  Machine Technology students and instructors also completed a number of outside projects, which 
included engraving school plaques and cutting key tags for the Fitchburg Police Department.  (Total student 
enrollment: 48) 
Masonry:  The talents of Monty Tech Masonry students are on display for all to see, with the completion of a 
beautiful stone veneer on the exterior of the new Veterinary Science training center.  In addition, students and 
instructors poured several concrete pads, installed pavers, and tiled almost every room in the 7,500 sq. ft. clin-
ic.  Students also helped to maintain the main campus by replacing four sets of concrete steps at the busy 
Dukakis Performing Arts Center.  Program instructors remain committed to community service, and as a re-
sult, worked with students to complete a number of projects in neighboring communities, to include repairing 
the memorial brick walk at the Winchendon  
===PAGE 143===
143 
 
Veterans Cemetery.  Students were introduced to the new OSHA silica standard, and the program benefitted 
from new equipment, dust free saws and grinders, and continues to operate in compliance with trade regula-
tions.  Three students earned co -op placements, and continued to refine their skills working with business part-
ners through the school’s co-op program.  (Total student enrollment: 60) 
Plumbing:  The 2017-2018 school year welcomed a new plumbing instructor, Christopher Morrissette, and 18 
freshmen to the Plumbing trade.  All freshmen successfully completed the OSHA 10 -hour General Industry 
safety training, while the sophomores completed the OSHA 10 -hour Construction Training.  Seniors also earned 
the Mega-Press gas piping certification at the Viega training facility in Nashua, NH.  Students and instructors 
worked diligently to complete the Veterinary Science training center, and completed a variety of plumbing re-
pairs throughout the main building.  A total of 13 students (nine seniors and four juniors) participated in the 
school’s popular co -op program.  Two outstanding seniors were recognized for their outstanding technical 
skills, receiving scholarships from the Plumbing, Heating, and Cooling Contractors Association of Massachu-
setts, and from the Central Mass Plumbing & Gas Inspectors Association, which will be used to continue their 
education.  (Total student enrollment: 71) 
Veterinary Science:  In 2017-2018, Monty Tech launched its 21 st vocational-technical education program, Vet-
erinary Science.  After a very successful exploratory program, 22 students were accepted into the program and 
are proud to be Monty Tech’s first class of Veterinary Science students.  All freshmen completed the OSHA 10 -
hour healthcare training, and spent the second semester engaged in introductory animal science lessons, as well 
as a number of valuable field trips to support the new curriculum, with trips to:  UMASS Amherst to study Eq-
uine Reproduction Medicine, Lilac Hedge Farm and Jordan's Dairy to observe agricultural production facilities 
in Massachusetts, Feed Commodities International to observe individualized rations being created for dairy 
farms, and Dakin Humane Society to discuss the industry of animal sheltering, with particular emphasis on the 
veterinary care required.  (Total student enrollment: 22)  
Welding/Metal Fabrication:  The 2017 -2018 school year brought new equipment to the students in the school ’s 
Welding/Metal Fabrication program, which enabled instructors to incorporate pipe welding, light gauge material 
welding and grinding techniques into the curriculum.  Numerous projects were completed by talented students, 
including more than fifty requests for individual projects from community members residing in the school ’s 
sending district. All freshmen students successfully completed the OSHA 10 -hour General Industry training, 
and a total of 11 upperclassmen (eight seniors and three juniors) were placed in area shops, working and learn-
ing from trade professionals who support the school’s co-op program. (Total student enrollment: 60) 
  
Co-operative Education and Student Placement 

===PAGE 144===
144 
 
The Cooperative Education Program is an extension of the student ’s technical education that combines class-
room instruction with on -the-job-training. The Co -op Program provides students the opportunity to further de-
velop academic, technical and employability skills in an industry work environment. All students are eligible to 
participate in Co-op Program, provided they satisfy state and school grade, attendance and performance require-
ments. All Co-op students have completed the OSHA recognized Career Safe online health and safety course.  
The Cooperative Education Program is beneficial for both student and employer. For the student, it is a chance 
to gain on -the job training that improves both their technical and employability skills. Additionally, making in-
dustry connections enhances post -graduate employment opportunities. The Co -op Program allows students to 
earn while they learn. 
Employer benefits include addressing workforce needs in an efficient manner. Coop students provide a pool of 
temporary and potential full-time employees who are already trained, thus reducing employer training costs. Co -
op work hours may be tailored to suit the needs of partnering employers. During school year 2017 -2018, approx-
imately 25% of qualified students (Juniors and Seniors) earned Co-op placements, working, learning and apply-
ing their technical skills related in area businesses. 
Student Support Services 
During the 2017-2018 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District provided spe-
cial services to approximately three hundred students – measuring progress of over two hundred students on 
Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and just under one hundred students adhering to individualized Section 504 
plans. While the Student Support Services (SSS) Department encompasses special education, the department 
provides support and is available to all Monty Tech students. 
The department includes a full-time nursing staff that administers medications, performs state-mandated health 
screening exams, and provides, when necessary, health information to the special education team for a student ’s 
IEP meeting. The department benefits from a full-time school social worker that participates in departmental 
meetings and assists students who have needs concerning finances, family issues, homelessness, maternity, 
health issues, and proper food and clothing. The school is also fortunate to have on staff a full -time psychologist, 
whose role it is to evaluate all students referred for an initial evaluation or who require a three - year re-
evaluation. In addition, we have a full-time speech language pathologist, who is available to assist students with 
disabilities, assess these students and consult with teachers. Our students also have access to the services of a 
full-time adjustment counselor and part-time school psychologist. All of these individuals are available for 
scheduled counseling sessions, mental health emergency treatment, medical/mental health re -entry and transition 
support and services, as well as crisis intervention. 
The school’s Director of Student Support Services oversees the District’s Special Education Program, which is 
reviewed annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements. The comprehensive review and evalua-
tion are done in collaboration with the Parent Advisory Council, and the results of the evaluation are used to 
improve the special education procedures and programs in place at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical 
School. 
SkillsUSA 
SkillsUSA is a partnership of students, teachers and industry working together to ensure America has a skilled 
workforce.  Through the school’s association with SkillsUSA, our students develop job skills, leadership and 
professional skills, as well as provide community service.  The 2017-2018 school year was an extraordinary one 
for our chapter of Skills USA. The students met the challenges of district competitions, performed well at the 
state level, and prepared for the national conference.  They also conducted several community service projects 
and raised money for various deserving charities.   Serving as co-advisors were Michael Forhan, Auto Body 
Instructor, Anne Marie Cataldo, Early Childhood Education Instructor, and Brad Pelletier, Special Education 
Instructor.  Highlights of the year include:   
 In September 2017, twenty -seven students applied and were accepted to form the Monty Tech SkillsUSA 
Leadership Team.  After two leadership training sessions, seven officers were elected.  
 In November 2017, twenty students, consisting of chapter officers and Leadership Team members attended 
the Annual Fall State Leadership Conference, where they participated in workshops and leadership exercis-
es and performed community service at an area YMCA Day Camp.  
 The SkillsUSA local competitions took place November 27 th – December 13th, and the students learned on 
December 15th who would advance to the next round of competition. 
===PAGE 145===
145 
 
 In December, the chapter adopted twenty -five children from Kylee ’s Kare Kits and provided gifts for these 
underserved children.  Several members of the leadership team assisted wrapping and packaging gifts for the 
children. 
 A total of forty -two medals were captured at the District Competition held in March 2018 at Bay Path Re-
gional Vocational Technical School:  sixteen gold, thirteen silver, and thirteen bronze medals were awarded.   
 Samantha Collette, a senior in the CAD/Drafting & Design program, was selected to serve on the State Advi-
sory Committee to help aid in the planning of the State Conference. 
 Thirty-six district medalists and qualifiers, thirteen local leadership and occupational related event contest-
ants, one state officer, and sixteen voting delegates attended the State Leadership and Skills Conference, held 
in April 2018 at Blackstone Valley Vocational Technical School.  There, five students were awarded gold 
medals, and earned the right to compete at the very competitive National Leadership & Skills Conference held 
in late June. 
 Thirteen students and five instructors attended the National Leadership & Skills Conference in Louisville, KY 
in June 2018, where Kayla Gerry, a 2018 graduate of the Health Occupations program, earned a silver medal.  
 
                                                               Technology 
The 2017-2018 school year brought increased access to technology for all students, through the school ’s popular 
1:1 Chromebook initiative.  Google Cloud Print and numerous printers located throughout the building provide 
students with options to print or share their work with classroom instructors.  Two Chromebook charging stations, 
located in the cafeteria and library, give an added layer to support to students who may need to charge their devic-
es throughout the day.   
An outstanding Instructional Technologist, Ellen Gammel, was hired, bringing expertise across a broad spectrum, 
to include educational technology, software, and troubleshooting tips.  Several members of the school ’s leadership 
team joined Ms. Gammel, traveling to Orlando, FL to attend the annual Future of Education Technology Confer-
ence, with the goal of identifying new solutions, technologies, and best practices that will enhance the school ’s 
technology-driven approach to education. 
To support the 1:1 Chromebook initiative and other technology needs, Monty Tech successfully completed a num-
ber of necessary infrastructure upgrades, using federal e -rate dollars totaling $109,114.70.  The school ’s external 
bandwidth speeds have been increased to 1.5 GB and internal bandwidth to 10GB to better ensure continued con-
nectivity and speeds appropriate with a high–use learning community.  
 
                                                             Marine Corps JROTC 
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) had an extraordinary 2017 -
2018 school year.  Perhaps the most noteworthy accomplishment was the cadet corps ’ remarkable response to 
Hurricane Harvey.  With the support of the surround communities, the cadets were able to raise almost $100,000 
in cash and materiel for relief efforts.   With the assistance of the United States Marine Corps, 56 cadets and 15 
adults flew to the Houston area where they spent 7 days working on homes that were damaged by the storm.   
 The Monty Tech JROTC Cadet Corps was honored to host the Wreaths Across America Convoy with a remem-
brance ceremony as it made its way down to Arlington National Cemetery.   
The 2017 -2018 Corps of Cadets completed over 10,000 hours of community service, conducting a major food 
drive with United Way, working side -by-side with the Marine Corps Reserve in a national Toys for Tots cam-
paign, and spending six weekends working with the local Salvation Army helping to raise over $25,000 for needy 
families.  
During the summer of 2018, our Cadet Cyber Team was asked to support a Cyber STEM camp for the National 
Marine Corps JROTC program.  The Cyber Team coordinated the 8 -day camp that focused on defending cyber 
networks from attacks. The camp also offered an introduction to robotics programming using the VEX Robotics 
System and computer programming using the CanaKit Raspberry Pi 3’s. The camp was attended by 120 students, 
representing twelve states, and was a wonderful success for all involved. 
 
===PAGE 146===
146 
 
                                                            Student Athletics 
 2017, thirteen during the winter season and 11 represented the 
school in the spring of 2018. 
The varsity football team struggled the first part of the season, but won the two non -playoff games against 
Gardner and Tyngsboro, ending the season with a 2 – 9 record.  The varsity boys soccer team finished the regu-
lar season with a 10 – 5 – 2 record, led by Charlie Kelley, with 23 goals and 8 assists on the season.  The JV 
boys soccer team is expected to have a promising future, as the young team finished 7 – 7 – 2.  The varsity girls 
soccer team finished at 5 – 9 – 3, while the junior varsity girls soccer team finished with a record of 7 – 3 – 5.  
The varsity field hockey team finished the season with a 10 – 7 – 2 record, losing 3-0 to Quaboag in the district 
tournament.  The young freshman/sophomore jv field hockey team ended their season with a 3 – 2 – 4 record.  
The varsity golf team earned a spot in the district tournament, with a record of 7 -7, while the junior varsity 
team participated in a handful of tournaments and official matches, working on improving their scores.  The 
varsity girls volleyball team had a disappointing year, finishing 3 – 17, but the JV team may be able to help 
build a stronger program in future years, as they finished with an improved record of 7 – 9.   
The Cyber Security Team received national recognition by securing a place to compete in the Air Force Associ-
ation’s National Cyber Security Competition held in Baltimore, MD, for the eighth consecutive year.   The com-
petition field began with over 1900 hundred teams battling for just 13 seats, and Monty Tech placed 6 th in the 
highly competitive field.  
The varsity boys cross country team finished 9 – 3 overall and 6 – 3 in the Colonial Athletic League, while the 
girls cross country team finished 6 – 4 overall and 3 – 4 in the league. 
The boys varsity basketball team qualified for the district tournament, with a record of 13 – 7, losing in a thrill-
ing home game with Marian, 80 – 76.  The JV boys basketball team finished at 9 – 10 and looks to send some 
talented players to the varsity team next.  The freshmen boys basketball team finished 5 – 14, winning three of 
their last four games.  The varsity girls basketball team had a very successful campaign, with a regular season 
finish of 16 – 4.  They extended their season, qualifying for the district tournament, where they defeated Tahan-
to 57 – 33 and Main South 40 – 36, and advanced to the semi -finals, where they played a hard fought game 
against Maynard, losing 60 – 54.  With the core of the team retuning next year, it should be a very interesting 
season.  The JV girls basketball team were 15 – 4 on the season, and expects to send some talented players to 
the varsity level during the 2018 -2019 school year.  The freshmen girls basketball team finished with a record 
of 9 – 7.  The Monty Tech wrestling team finished with a record of 7 – 18, but were still able to place second in 
the Colonial Athletic League.  The indoor track and field teams look to improve in the coming years, with a 
finish from the boys at 1 – 7 and the girls team recorded a 0 – 8 finish.  The varsity boys ice hockey team fin-
ished 10 – 9 – 1, losing to the Worcester team 4 – 3 in the tournament.  The girls ice hockey team continues to 
improve each year, and after graduating three players, hopes to recruit some new players in the coming school 
year. 
Due to poor field conditions, the varsity baseball team was unable to host a home game, finishing the season 
with a record of 5 – 15.  The JV baseball team finished 1 – 10, and freshman baseball team struggled with a 
record of 2 – 5.   
The varsity softball team continues to excel, finishing the regular 16 – 4, and winning the first two games in the 
district tournament, before losing to Hopedale 11 -5 in the finals.  The JV girls softball team finished 12 – 3 and 
should provide some talented players to future teams.  Boys varsity lacrosse finished with a 5 – 13 record, while 
the JV boys lacrosse team had a solid season, finishing 8 – 5.  The varsity girls lacrosse team ended with a 3 – 
14 record, while the JV girls lacrosse had 5 – 5 season.   
Congratulations to the Outstanding Male and Female athletes for 2017 -2018, Nick McDermott and Erica  
Regan. 
===PAGE 147===
147 
 
                                     Monty Tech School of Continuing Education 
The Monty Tech School of Continuing Education continues to update and add courses that emphasize a com-
mitment to excellence by offering affordable, quality, and enjoyable educational experiences. For the Fall of 
2017, Monty Tech offered 140 classes with 871 registrations, and during the Spring 2018 semester, there were 
114 post-graduate and continuing studies courses, with 671 registrations. 
The program is on track to support North Central Massachusetts workforce readiness pipeline with an increase 
in career and licensure courses.  The students earn industry-recognized credentials, and participate in extern-
ships to support the hands on learning component.  We continue to increase our small business partnerships, 
and the number and quality of personal enrichment classes - sewing, knitting, acrylic painting and glass fusing, 
to name a few. Catalog distribution has more than doubled, from 80,000 to 170,000 copies, and the relatively 
new online registration feature continues to add value to our students and instructors.  
Spring 2019 will see an Oil Burner Technician certification prep courses come to fruition. This will provide 
our community members with a high quality, affordable entry into a viable career pathway. Upon completion 
of the 120-hour program, students will have the opportunity to sit for the oil burner technician state licensing 
exam, and begin their work in the oil burner industry. 
The continued success and sustainability of an adult education program is based on hiring quality instructors 
and meeting the needs of the community and supporting workforce development. Our goal in the coming year 
includes increasing our adult education course offerings, with a continued concentration on career programs. 
Stay tuned for Pharmacy Technician, Medical Billing and Coding, Manufacturing Boot Camp and Apprentice-
ship opportunities at the Monty Tech School of Continuing Education. 
                                                           Practical Nursing Program 
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program is designed to prepare graduates to practice safely, ethically and in 
a caring manner for patients who are experiencing common variations in health status in diverse health care 
settings.  On June 28, 2018, a graduating class of 35 students completed the Practical Nursing Program and 
entered the nursing profession. The class achieved an initial pass rate of 77%, with 27 of the 35 graduates pass-
ing the NCLEX-PN exam.  Five graduates are waiting to take their NCLEX- PN exam, and three graduates are 
expected to retake the examination in the coming months.  
All of the 2018 graduates are currently employed in the health care profession throughout Massachusetts, and 
many are working within the eighteen cities and towns of the Monty Tech school district as LPNs in various 
health care settings, ranging from long term care, sub-acute care to mental health facilities. 
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program continues to develop the “LPN to BSN Bridge” relationship with 
Fitchburg State University. Several 2018 graduates are pursuing seats in the LPN to BSN program at FSU and 
will be continuing their education to the Bachelors in Nursing. Many class applicants cited their attraction to 
Monty Tech as the opportunity to complete a ten-month accelerated program and then bridge to Fitchburg 
State University. 
Monty Tech Practical Nursing students are now completing patient scenarios in the Sim Lab on a weekly basis 
in Terms 2 and 3. The Faculty Sim team has implemented National League of Nursing (NLN) patient scenarios 
consistent with our curriculum frameworks, and have also utilized the Sim lab setting to instruct students in 
developing nursing skills that they may not be experiencing in the clinical setting.  
Instructors have successfully developed and implemented a Maternity Sim lab boot camp where students uti-
lize the new simulation models to simulate the birthing process. Student feedback has been positive regarding 
these new maternity scenarios, stating it better prepares them for an unexpected outcome during a delivery.  
Substance abuse and the mental health setting job opportunities have increased with more funding being pro-
vided to combat the opiate crisis.  Having a clinical rotation at AdCare Hospital in Worcester, and performing 
simulation scenarios involving substance abuse clients, has better prepared our graduates to work in a sub-
stance abuse clinical setting, as well. 
                                                                 Looking Ahead 
While the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District educational community is certainly 
proud of the achievements of our talented students, faculty, and staff, we continue to have an eye toward the 
future, always committed to improving our vocational and academic programming, strengthening key partner-
ships, and maintaining facilities that contribute to student success and achievement. As we look ahead, there  
===PAGE 148===
148 
 
are a number of programs and initiatives that we expect will have a positive impact on our school and students for 
years to come. 
Expand science offerings to include new biomedical courses:  For several months, school officials worked to 
launch an exciting new biomedical science program.  Using grant funds, a science lab was renovated, transform-
ing it into a biomedical science laboratory, aligned with current industry standards.  In addition, one talented in-
structor, Mr. Dylan Hager, attended four weeks of intensive teacher training (2 weeks during summer 2017 at the 
University of San Diego, and 2 weeks during the summer of 2018 at the University of Washington).  While Mr. 
Hager spent weeks preparing this exciting new coursework, school officials purchased the supplies and materials 
necessary to deliver two rigorous Project Lead the Way courses, Human Body Systems and Principles of Biomed-
ical Sciences.  These courses, which will be available to students Fall 2018, are expected to engage students in a 
variety of hands-on learning opportunities in a newly renovated laboratory environment that replicates industry 
standards.  Students will be trained in the safe and effective use of the same tools that professionals in hospitals 
and laboratories are currently using and will work together to find solutions to real -world problems by analyzing 
medical histories, reading and interpreting autopsy reports, and understanding basic biology and human physiolo-
gy.  
Celebrate the completion of the school’s newest instructional space:  For two years, students and instructors in our 
Carpentry, Electrical, Plumbing, Masonry, HVAC and Property Maintenance, and Cabinetmaking trades worked 
to complete an incredible project – a 7,500 sq. ft. building, which would become home to the school ’s newest vo-
cational program, Veterinary Science.  With construction of this state -of-the-art facility completed during the 
summer months, school officials celebrated the finished product with local and state officials, donors, and com-
munity members who helped bring the innovative animal science program to Monty Tech.  While the facility will 
not be open to serve pets until Fall 2019, Monty Tech Veterinary Science students will work and learn in the new 
space in the 2018-2019 school year, preparing for a successful opening September 2019.  
Expand post -secondary and continuing education opportunities :  Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical 
School is home to a very popular evening program that, in recent years, has expanded to include countless work-
force readiness programs.  A generous grant provided by the Community Foundation of North Central Massachu-
setts has enabled school officials to begin developing a new, meaningful workforce training program that will 
have an immediate and positive impact on regional workforce needs.  In 2018-2019, an Oil Burner Technician 
Certification course will be made available to non -traditional students with an interest in pursuing entry -level ca-
reers in HVAC trades.   This evening program, the only such course in North Central Massachusetts, will include 
three industry -recognized certification opportunities and will undoubtedly benefit dislocated workers who have 
been interested in related careers but unable to participate in the required training, due to lack of offerings or high 
costs associated with similar training programs.     
Expand the school’s marketing efforts: A Monty Tech high school experience is one students must choose, and to 
ensure that every interested student in our sending district has access to information needed to make sound deci-
sions regarding his/her high school experience, it is imperative that the school ’s marketing efforts are expanded to 
include a variety of social media platforms.  While the school currently hosts an updated website and Facebook 
page, school officials are exploring adding Twitter and Instagram accounts, in an effort to continue to engage in-
terested students and parents.  
Respectfully Submitted By: 
Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D., Superintendent-Director  
January 17, 2019 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School  
1050 Westminster Street 
Fitchburg, MA  01420 
(978) 345-9200 
www.montytech.net  
 
 
===PAGE 149===
149 
 
The Monty Tech School Committee 
 
The Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee is comprised of twenty -
one dedicated individuals, whose expertise proves invaluable in advising the district ’s operations, poli-
cies, and procedures. Our students continue to benefit from the broad scope of their experiences and 
varying perspectives, and we are thankful to the following members of the 2017-2018 School Commit-
tee for their outstanding service. 
Brian J. Walker, Fitchburg 
Chair 
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham 
Vice Chair 
Peter Capone, Ashby 
Toni L. Phillips, Athol 
Whitney Marshall, Barre 
Claudia Holbert/ Dr. Robert Babineau, Fitchburg 
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg 
Melanie Weeks, Fitchburg 
Eric D. Commodore/ Matthew Vance, Gardner 
James S. Boone, Gardner 
Vacant Seat, Harvard  
James Cournoyer, Holden 
Kathleen Airoldi, Hubbardston 
Barbara Reynolds, Lunenburg 
Edward Simms, Petersham 
Eric Olson, Phillipston 
John P. Mollica, Princeton 
Mary C. Barclay, Royalston 
Dr. Kenneth I.H. Williams/ William Brassard, Sterling 
James M. Gilbert, Templeton 
Ross Barber, Westminster 
Austin Cyganiewicz, Winchendon 
Terri Hillman 
Secretary 
Norman J. LeBlanc 
District Treasurer 
===PAGE 150===
150 
 
===PAGE 151===
151 
 
TOWN CLERK  
===PAGE 152===
152 
 
                                  
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT May 5, 2018
 
 
At 9:06 a.m. the Annual Town Meeting was called to order. The Moderator declared warrant properly served 
and a quorum was declared. After the pledge, the National Anthem was sung by the Lunenburg High School 
acappella choir. The Moderator reminded the audience to be sure to pick up the handouts available in the hall-
way for various articles; he also mentioned that the 130 pages of the Planning Board article were available to 
look at by the left side of the stage. Laura Brzozski from the Cultural Council spoke about the Arts Festival hap-
pening on June 29, 2018. Chairman Toale recognized Paula Bertram for her service to the Town as a member of 
the Board of Selectmen for four terms. Paula then thanked Town Meeting members. The School Committee rec-
ognized retired Supt. Calmes for her service to the town. At 9:15 a.m., the Moderator went over the ground rules 
(cell phones, use of the microphone, etc.) using Town Meeting Time. 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town Officers 
and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) (Board of Select-
men recommends approval.) (Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact) Article 1 was PASSED 
OVER. (Reports already accepted)  
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the general by -laws of Town by adding a new section to 
establish and authorize revolving funds for use by certain town departments, boards, committees, agencies or 
officers under Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 44, § 53E½, or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends approval)  
 
Amend the Bylaws of the Town by adding the following new section: 
Departmental Revolving Funds 
1. Purpose.  This by-law establishes and authorizes revolving funds for use by town, departments, boards, com-
mittees, agencies and officers in connection with the operation of programs or activities that generate fees, 
charges or other receipts to support all or some of the expenses of those programs or activities.  These revolving 
funds are established under and governed by General Laws Chapter 44, §53E ½.  
2. Expenditure Limitations.   A department or agency head, board, committee or officer may incur liabilities 
against and spend monies from a revolving fund established and authorized by this by -law without appropriation 
subject to the following limitations: 
    A. Fringe benefits of full-time employees whose salaries or wages are paid from the fund shall also be paid f    
        from the fund. 
    B. No liability shall be incurred in excess of the available balance in the fund.   
    C. The total amount spent during the year shall not exceed the amount authorized by Annual Town Meeting    
         on or before July 1 of that fiscal year, or any increased amount of that authorization that is later approved  
         during that fiscal year by the Selectmen and Finance Committee.  
3.  Interest.  Interest earned on monies credited to a revolving fund established by this by -law shall be credited 
to the general fund. 
4. Procedures and Reports.   Except as provided in General Laws Chapter 44, §53E ½ and this by -law, the 
laws, charter provisions, by -laws, rules, regulations, policies or procedures that govern the receipt and cus-
tody of town monies and the expenditures and payment of town funds shall apply to the use of a revolving 
fund established and authorized by this by -law.  The Town Accountant shall include a statement on the col-
lections credited to the fund, the encumbrances and expenditures charged to each fund and the balance 
available for expenditure in the regular report the Town Accountant provides the department, board, com-
mittee, agency or officer on appropriations made for its use. 
5.   Authorized Revolving Funds.  The Table establishes: 
A. Each revolving fund authorized for use by a town department, board, committee, agency or officer,  
B. The department or agency head, board, committee or officer authorized to spend from each fund,  
C. The fees, charges and other monies charged and received by the department, board, committee, agency or 
officer in connection with the program or activity for which the fund is established that shall be credited to 
each fund by the Town Accountant, 
D. The expenses of the program or activity for which each fund may be used, 
E. Any restrictions or conditions on expenditures from each fund; 
===PAGE 153===
153 
 
 
 
F. Any reporting or other requirements that apply to each fund, and 
G. The fiscal years each fund shall operate under this by-law. 
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY with Amendment to remove italicized sections E, F & G from #5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, com-
mittees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the fiscal 
year beginning July 1, 2018 to be expended in accordance with the by -law heretofore approved; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee 
recommends approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY as follows:  
 
 
 
Revolving Fund Department, Board, 
Committee, Agency 
or Officer 
Authorized to Spend 
from Fund 
Revenue Source Program or Activity Expenses 
Payable from Fund 
Ambulance 
Billing 
Fire Department 5% of Ambulance services 
and 100% of Advanced 
Life Support Services 
Payments to Third Party Billing 
Company and ALS companies 
Timber Rights Conservation 
Commission 
Proceeds of Timber Rights Acquisition/Improvement of 
Conservation Land and 
associated costs 
 
School 
Custodial 
Special Details 
School Committee Charges/Fees for Outside 
Details 
Payment of Special Details for 
Outside Functions 
 
Green Thumb School Committee Sales of Items from Green 
Thumb Program 
Expenses related to the Operation 
of the Green Thumb Program 
Library 
Revolving 
Library Trustees Library Fines, Penalties, 
Donations, and Bequests 
Purchase of Library and 
Information Materials, Document 
Information, and Electronic Data 
Delivery 
Council on 
Aging/MART 
Revolving 
Council on 
Aging/COA 
Director 
MART Program 
Reimbursements and User 
Fees 
Dispatch, Operation, 
Maintenance, and Record 
Keeping of Elderly 
Transportation Program 
Stormwater 
Task Force 
Stormwater Task 
Force Committee 
Proceeds from sale of rain 
barrels and composting 
bins 
Acquisition of additional rain 
barrels and composting bins 
Electrical, Gas, 
Plumbing 
Inspector 
Building 
Department 
82.5% of the fees collected 
from wiring inspections, 
80% of the fees collected 
form plumbing and gas 
inspections 
Payment of all charges and fees 
related to electrical, plumbing, 
and gas inspections 
Technology  Town Manager, IT 
Director, and Land 
Use Director 
Proceeds from Technology 
Fee associated with 
electronic permitting 
Payment of software fees, 
software upgrades, and 
equipment related to electronic 
permitting 
 
===PAGE 154===
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Finance 
Director) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meeting). Article 4 
was PASSED OVER (No prior year bills). 
 
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary 
to amend the amounts voted for the Town ’s FY 2018 Budget, under Article 8 of the May 6, 2017 Annual Town 
Meeting and Article 1 of the November 28, 2017 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action relative there-
to.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommenda-
tion at town meeting) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Line 13/Reserve Fund, the sum of 
$75,000.00; transfer from Line 13A/Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of $48,363.53; and transfer from Line 
6/Health Insurance, the sum of $26,234.96; and transfer to Line 30/Legal Expense, the sum of $25,000.00, 
and to Line 70/Snow Removal, the sum of $124,598.49. 
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available 
funds a sum of money for the FY 2019 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Report, or 
take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Capital Planning Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Fi-
nance Committee recommends approval).   
 
 
 
Revolving Fund FY19 Spending  
Limit 
Ambulance Billing $100,000 
Timber Rights $10,000 
School Custodial Special Details $13,000 
Green Thumb $5,000 
Library Revolving $12,000 
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $45,000 
Stormwater Task Force $5,000 
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector $46,000 
Technology  $30,000 
 
Project # Project Title Cost  
Cumulative 
Cost 
PD17-02 Police Vehicles,2  $112,000  $112,000  
PD17-11 Protective Gear $20,000  $132,000  
PD16-09 Duty Gear $11,600  $143,600  
PD16-16 ATV $18,000  $161,600  
PD18-01 Patrol Boat $15,000  $176,600  
LPS16-17 Phone System $30,000  $206,600  
LPS16-19 Asbestos $130,000  $336,600  
DPW17-05A Utility Pickup $45,307  $381,907  
FM17-08 DPW Roof $65,000  $446,907  
FM18-01 Demo Classroom $28,000  $474,907  
DPW17-o5B Utility Pickup $45,307  $520,214  
        
Total     $520,214 
    CPC recommends short term (5 year) financing option for 
 Ladder Truck ($935,000) and other available funds.   
  
===PAGE 155===
155 
 
VOTED with amendment (2/3rds DECLARED) to raise and appropriate the sum of $767,999.97; transfer 
from Free Cash the sum of $215,736; transfer from Article 14 of the 5/4/13 Annual Town Meeting the sum 
of $200.00; transfer from Article 14 of the 5/3/14 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $50.60; transfer from 
Article 14 of the 5/2/15 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $11,012.24; transfer from Article 14 of the 5/7/16 
Annual Town Meeting the sum of $35,059.91; transfer from Article 7 of the 5/6/17 Annual Town Meeting 
the sum of $8,155.28; and to authorize the Town Treasurer, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, 
to borrow the amount of $480,495 under G.L. c. 44, or any other enabling authority, and to apply any pre-
mium received by the Town upon sale of any bonds or notes approved hereunder, less any such premium 
applied to the payment of the costs of issuance of such bonds or notes, to payment of costs hereby ap-
proved in accordance with G.L. c. 44, section 20, thereby reducing the amount to be borrowed to pay such 
costs by a like amount for a total appropriation of $1,455,214 to fund the FY19 Capital Plan.  
 
ARTICLE 7.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2019 and to fix the salaries and compensation of 
all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager; or take any 
other action thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends 
approval) VOTED with amendment to raise and appr opriate an additional $63,495.00 for  a total of 
$35,810,308.56, transfer $10,868.00 from Septic Receipts Reserved for Appropriation, transfer 
$883,369.58 from the Sewer Enterprise Fund, transfer $59,959.00 from the Reserve for MSBA Debt, 
transfer $44,930.56 from the Artificial Turf Revolving Fund, and transfer $58,468.13 from Water Better-
ment Revenue to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2019 of $36,867,903.83 and 
to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the 
budget of the Town Manager as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
FY 2019 Omnibus Budget   
      
Line Account VOTED 
No.   FY 2019 
      
  Maturing Debt & Interest   
1 Principal-Loans  $         3,095,185.66 
2 Interest -Loans  $         1,623,033.16 
3 Interest-Temporary Loans  $              33,491.78 
3A Admin Fees-Loans  $                6,341.90 
3B Bond Issuance Costs  $                         - 
      
  Total Maturing Debt  $         4,758,052.50 
      
  Unclassified   
4 Liability Insurance  $            232,384.65 
5 Workers Compensation  $            126,527.50 
6 Group Health Insurance  $         2,305,035.11 
7 Group Life Insurance  $              15,000.00 
8 Physicals  $                3,500.00 
9 Print Town Reports  $              12,000.00 
10 Mont Reg Planning Assess  $                3,443.29 
11 Historical Commission  $                3,000.00 
12 Band Concerts  $                4,200.00 
12A Agricultural Commission  $                      - 
13 Reserve Fund  $              75,000.00 
13A Salary Reserve Fund  $              94,000.00 
===PAGE 156===
156 
 
 
14 Unemployment Expense  $              10,000.00 
14A Unemploy. Expense-Stab Fund  $                       - 
15 Medicare - Town's Share  $            260,700.00 
      
  Total Gen Gov Unclassified  $         3,144,790.55 
      
  General Government   
16 Finance Committee Expense  $                   800.00 
17 Annual Town Audit  $              43,500.00 
18 Charter Review Comm  $                           - 
19 Selectmen's Administration  $              56,302.36 
20 Selectmen Salaries  $                      - 
21 Town Manager Salary  $            127,320.00 
22 Town Manager Expense  $                5,500.00 
23 Town Accountant  $            202,770.03 
24 Treasurer's Administration  $              77,097.62 
25 Banking Charges  $                1,000.00 
26 Tax Collector's Admin  $              93,260.18 
27 Assessor's Salaries  $                           - 
28 Assessor's Administration  $            169,580.72 
29 Technology Director  $            200,923.70 
30 Legal Expenses  $            110,000.00 
31 Town Clerk Salary  $              49,430.22 
32 Town Clerk's Administration  $              33,991.40 
33 Elections  $              10,200.00 
34 Registration & Census  $              12,800.00 
35 Planning Board  $            149,531.96 
36 Zoning Board of Appeals  $                3,900.00 
37 Conservation Commission  $              52,502.06 
      
      
  Total General Government  $         1,401,119.25 
      
  Central Purchasing   
38 Central Purchasing  $              55,303.00 
      
  Total Central Purchasing  $              55,303.00 
      
  Protection   
39 Police Department  $         1,659,229.47 
40 Police Lock Up  $              80,060.00 
41 Injury Leave  $                4,000.00 
42 Police/Fire Medical Expenses  $                4,000.00 
      
  Subtotal Police  $         1,747,289.47 
      
43 Fire Department   $           938,119.64 
43A Capital - Fire Dept.   $             20,000.00 
44 Fire Hydrant Expense   $             15,000.00 
45 Radio Equipment Mtc.   $             10,000.00 
      
  Subtotal Fire Dept.   $           983,119.64 
      
46 Radio Watch   $           276,467.51 
===PAGE 157===
157 
 
 
  Subtotal Radio Watch   $           276,467.51 
      
47 Emergency Management   $                6,500.00 
48 Sealer of Weights & Measures   $                4,300.00 
49 Wiring Inspector   $                         - 
50 Building Inspector   $             140,283.60 
51 Municipal Hearings Officer   $                        - 
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector   $                        - 
53 Animal Control   $              40,000.00 
      
  Subtotal Other Protection   $            191,083.60 
      
  Total Protection   $          3,197,960.22 
      
  Health & Sanitation   
54 General Health Expense   $              35,055.96 
55 Nashoba Board of Health   $              25,943.35 
56 Nashoba Nursing   $              11,839.27 
57 Mental Health   $                         - 
58 Animal Inspector Salary   $                    1, 000.00 
      
  Total Health & Sanitation    $                  73,838.58 
      
  Department of Public Works   
59 Highway Labor        $            512,824.34 
60 Highway OT        $                6,787.06 
61 General Highway Maintenance        $            512,500.00 
61A Capital - General Highway        $                           - 
62 Town Highway Garage        $               1,040.00 
63 Traffic Signs & Devices        $              28,253.00 
64 Vehicle Mtc. - Highway        $              73,480.00 
65 Vehicle Mtc - Police        $              67,000.00 
66 Vehicle Mtc - Fire        $              42,000.00 
67 Park Department        $              72,898.00 
68 Cemetery Department        $              51,130.93 
69 Tree Removal        $              24,745.04 
70 Snow Removal Expense        $            275,720.00 
      
  Total DPW        $         1,668,378.37 
      
  Facilities and Buildings   
71 Facilities & Grounds      $              427,298.59 
72 Public Buildings      $              243,553.10 
72A Additional Utilities, Library      $                           - 
  Total Facilities & Grounds      $              670,851.69 
      
  Solid Waste/RecyclingProgram   
73 Recycling Program      $             156,359.88 
  Total Solid Waste/Recycling      $             156,359.88 
      
74 Council on Aging        $              139,718.56 
  Subtotal C.O.A.        $              139,718.56 
75 Veterans’ Benefits        $                99,275.00 
===PAGE 158===
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by 
Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends approval).  VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to transfer $87,000 from Free Cash to the Stabilization Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money into the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any action relative there-
to. (Submitted by Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends ap-
proval) VOTED to transfer $200,000 from Free Cash to this Special Purpose Stabilization Fund for 
the purpose of funding future capital needs for vehicles and equipment. 
 
ARTICLE 10 .  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special 
Town Meeting; or take any action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Se-
lectmen and Finance Committee recommends approval) VOTED to transfer $100,000 from Free 
Cash and to transfer $656 from Sewer Retained Earning to the OPEB Trust Fund established 
at the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 11 .  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2019; or take any action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) 
(Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to 
appropriate from Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of $705,301.08; and appropriate from 
Sewer Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $156,869.92; for a total appropriation of 
$862,171.00 to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY19; and further that $883,369.58 be 
included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the Sew-
er Enterprise Fund. 
 
76 Veteran's Administration        $                  5,250.00 
77 Registrar of Vets' Graves        $                     500.00 
78 Memorial Day        $                     750.00 
      
  Subtotal Veterans        $              105,775.00 
      
  Total Assistance        $              243,493.56 
     
  Schools   
79 School Department        $         20,190,110.47 
79A Unemploy.School-Stab Fund        $                         - 
79B Curriculum Update        $                17,686.00 
80 Monty Tech Assessment        $              824,011.00 
81 Vehicle Mtc - School        $                         - 
      
  Total Schools        $         21,031,807.47 
      
      
  Library   
82 Lunenburg Public Library        $            400,453.76 
  Total Library        $            400,453.76 
      
  Total Omnibus        $     36,804,408.83 
===PAGE 159===
159 
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds a sum of money into 
the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by 
the Sewer Commission) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends approval) VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $29,000 into 
the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2019; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee recommends approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Solid Waste Dis-
posal Enterprise Revenue the sum of $292,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program. 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to operate the Water Department/Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2019; or take any other 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Commit-
tee recommends approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues 
the sum of $25,000 to operate the Water Department. 
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate from Public Educational Governmental 
(PEG) Access and Cable Related Fund Revenues, a sum of money to fund the FY 2019 PEG Access 
Committee operating budget and capital budget; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted 
by Public Access Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) 
VOTED  UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related Fund Revenues 
the sum of $192,600.00 to fund the FY19 PEG Access Committee operating budget. 
 
ARTICLE 16.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money from the Sale of Cem-
etery lots account to be used for the care and improvement and embellishment of the Town Cemeter-
ies; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Cemetery Commission) (Board of Select-
men and Finance Committee recommends approval)  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate the 
sum of $20,000.00 from the Sale of Cemetery lots account to be used for the care, improvement 
and embellishment of the Cemeteries.  
 
ARTICLE 17. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $838,675, the remaining borrowing 
authorization, from Article 25 of the May 3, 2014 Annual Town Meeting for sewer construction; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Finance Director) (Board of Selectmen and Fi-
nance Committee recommends approval)  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the sum of $838,675, 
the remaining borrowing authorization from Article 25 of the May 3, 2014 Annual Town Meet-
ing for sewer construction. 
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $300,000, the remaining bor-
rowing authorization, from Article 38 of the May 2, 2015 Annual Town Meeting for sewer construc-
tion; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by Finance Director) (Board of Selectmen 
and Finance Committee recommends approval)  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the sum of 
$300,000, the remaining borrowing authorization from Article 38 of the May 2, 2015 Annual 
Town Meeting for sewer construction. 
 
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $256,000, the remaining borrowing 
authorization, from Article 15 of the May 3, 2014 Annual Town Meeting for the purchase of the Lane 
Property; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Finance Director) (Board of Select-
men and Finance Committee recommends approval)  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the sum of 
$256,000, the remaining borrowing authorization, from Article 15 of the May 3, 2014 Annual 
Town Meeting for the purchase of the Lane Property. 
 
===PAGE 160===
160 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey the 
building known as the Brooks House, located at 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor ’s 
Map 060, Lot 055 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of Selectmen for the 
purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to sell the building situated thereon, 
and take any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale of said building situated thereon; or take any 
other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Finance Committee recommends ap-
proval) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 4 -1) VOTED TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY 
Article 20. 
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey to 
Hickory Hills Landowners Inc., the owners of the property located at 199 Townsend Harbor Road, As-
sessors Map 042 Parcel 01, 285 Townsend Harbor Road, Assessors Map 043 Parcel 03 and to Ryan and 
Marley Dixon, the owners of the property located at 307 Townsend Harbor Road, Assessors May 043 
Parcel 01, and their successors, a perpetual easement along and upon portions of the Town owned prop-
erty along Townsend Harbor Road from 169 Townsend Harbor Road to 307 Townsend Harbor Road, 
approximately 12’ feet wide by 1900’ long, for the purpose of installing overtopping protection along 
Hickory Hills Dam, and maintenance thereof, on such terms and conditions which the Board of Select-
men may determine; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Citizens Petition) (Board of Se-
lectmen - no recommendation) (Finance Committee recommends approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey to Hickory Hills Landowners Inc., the owners of 
the property located at 199 Townsend Harbor Road, Assessors Map 042 Parcel 01, 285 Townsend 
Harbor Road,  Assessors Map 043 Parcel 03 and to Ryan and Marley Dixon, the owners of the 
property located at 307 Townsend Harbor Road, Assessors May 043 Parcel 01, and their succes-
sors, a perpetual easement along and upon portions of the Town owned property along Townsend 
Harbor Road from 169 Townsend Harbor Road to 307 Townsend Harbor Road, approximately 
12’ feet wide by 1900’ long, for the purpose of installing overtopping protection along Hickory 
Hills Dam, and maintenance thereof, on such terms and conditions which the Board of Selectmen 
 may determine. 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey the 
property located at 161 Gilchrest Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 031 Parcel 0010 from the Board of 
Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of Selectmen for the purpose of conveyance on such terms 
and conditions and for such consideration as the Board of Selectmen deems appropriate, and to take 
any legal action necessary to effectuate the same; and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to acquire, in 
partial or full consideration of the 161 Gilchrest Street property that other property located at 171 
Gilchrest Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 031 Parcel 0011, for the purpose of conservation land and 
in order to obtain meaningful access to the Lane Conservation property; or take any action relative 
thereto.  (Submitted by Conservation Commission) (Finance Committee and Board of Selectmen rec-
ommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey the 
property located at 161 Gilchrest Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 031 Parcel 0010 from the 
Board of Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of Selectmen for the purpose of convey-
ance on such terms and conditions and for such consideration as the Board of Selectmen deems 
appropriate, and to take any legal action necessary to effectuate the same; and to authorize the 
Board of Selectmen to acquire, as partial or full consideration for the 161 Gilchrest Street prop-
erty that other property located at 171 Gilchrest Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 031 Parcel 
0011, for the purpose of conservation land and in order to obtain meaningful access to the Lane 
Conservation property. 
 
ARTICLE 23.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer its right, title, and interest to the land at 
174 Northfield Road Rear shown on Assessors Map 41 Block 3 Lot 0 from the Board of Selectmen for 
which said property is held to convey all of such property to Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. on such 
terms and conditions, and for such consideration, as the Board of Selectmen deems appropriate; or take 
any action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Citizens Petition) (Finance Committee will make recom-
mendation at town meeting)  Article 23 was PASSED OVER 
===PAGE 161===
161 
 
ARTICLE 24.  To see if the Town will authorize demolition and removal of the building and all 
related structures, and site cleanup, of the Town owned property known as the Old Primary Building, 
located at 30 School Street in the town of Lunenburg, the property further identified on: Assessors Map 
071.0 Block 0076 Parcel ID# 162/071.0-0076-0000.0, including the payment of all costs incidental and 
related thereto; and raise and appropriate the sum of $400,000.00, or some other sum or sums; and that 
to meet this appropriation, the Treasurer, with the approval of the Selectmen, be authorized to borrow 
said amount under and pursuant to Chapter 44, Section 7(1) of the General Laws, or pursuant to any 
other enabling authority, and to issue bonds or notes of the Town therefor; and that the Board of Se-
lectmen be authorized to take any other action necessary to carry out this project; and further, to see 
whether such vote will be contingent upon a vote by ballot at the annual town election to exclude the 
amounts necessary to repay the debt service on any such borrowing from the property tax limitation 
provisions of Chapter 59, Section 21C of the General Laws (Proposition Two and One Half), or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Citizens Petition) (Finance Committee will make rec-
ommendation at town meeting) (Board of Selectmen voted to not recommend approval) VOTED TO 
POSTPONE INDEFINITELY Article 24.  
 
ARTICLE 25.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Sewer Service Area Map, adding Tilton 
Avenue to the Lunenburg Sewer Service Area and Sewer Service Zone (parcel ID ’s 75-18, -19, -20, -
21, -22, -23, -24, -25, -26, -27, a total of 10 parcels); or take any other action relative thereto.  
(Submitted by the Sewer Commission) (Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact) (Board 
of Selectmen will make recommendation at Town Meeting, 3-2) VOTED  to amend the Sewer Service 
Area Map, adding Tilton Avenue to the Lunenburg Sewer Service Area and Sewer Service Zone 
(parcel ID’s 75-18, -19, -20, -21, -22, -23, -24, -25, -26, -27, a total of 10 parcels). 
 
ARTICLE 26.  To eliminate Chapter 127 Cigarettes, to eliminate Chapter 127 -1 Sale and Display 
Restricted, to eliminate Chapter 127-2 Violation and Penalties, and to allow the sale of cigarette rolling 
paper. (Citizens Petition) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval) (Finance Committee no direct 
financial impact) VOTED To eliminate Chapter 127 Cigarettes, to eliminate Chapter 127-1 Sale and 
Display Restricted, to eliminate Chapter 127 -2 Violation and Penalties, and to allow the sale of 
cigarette rolling paper. 
 
ARTICLE 27.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to petition the 
General Court for the enactment of a special legislation revising the Lunenburg Home Rule Charter 
adopted at the Town Election held in 1999 and filed in the office of the archivist of the commonwealth 
as provided in section 12 of chapter 43B of the General Laws, and amended by the town on May 3, 
2008 and enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the General Court on October 8, 
2009, in the following manner: 
1. Change the name of the board of selectmen to select board. 
2. Change the manner of selection of the town clerk from elected to appointed by the town manager 
subject to ratification by the select board. 
3. Providing that persons appointed to town committees be residents registered to vote in town. 
4. Providing for a second annual town meeting in the fall, the time and date of which to be set by by -
law. 
5. Providing that conduct of town meeting to be governed by “Town Meeting Time”. 
6. Clarify and confirm the appointment powers of the select board and town manager to provide for 
appointment of various department heads be appointed by the town manager subject to ratification 
by the select board. 
7. Clarifying the duties of the town manager relating to personnel management, jurisdiction over 
town facilities, property and day to day operations, the budget process and enforcement of charter 
provisions and town by-laws. 
8. Providing more specifics in the process for removal and suspension of the town manager. 
===PAGE 162===
162 
 
9. Make certain other grammatical and phrasing changes that do not alter the meaning or intent of ex-
isting provisions, as well as updating requirements of the open meeting law to comply with state law., 
and to authorize the charter review committee to submit to the General Court for enactment as the Re-
vised Charter of the Town of Lunenburg the proposed legislation contained in the Final Report of the 
Charter Review Committee 2018, copies of which were placed on file in the office of the Board of 
Selectmen and the office of the Town Clerk and copies of which were made available for public dis-
tribution at the office of the Board of Selectmen, the office of the Town Clerk at the Town Hall, at the 
main circulation desk of the Lunenburg Public Library and on the town website forthwith following 
such filing.  Said Charter Review Committee is further authorized to consult with the members of the 
General Court and is hereby authorized to approve such changes or alteration to the draft text of the 
special legislation as may be suggested by the General Court if any; or take any other action relative 
thereto.  (Submitted by the Charter Review Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee 
will make recommendation at town meeting) Article 27 was PASSED OVER. 
 
ARTICLE 28.  To see if the town will vote to amend the Town of Lunenburg Code, Chapter 81 
Town Meetings, as follows: 
In 81-2 Meeting and election dates to add the word “first” before the words “Annual Town Meeting” 
and to add the following sentence at the end of the section: The second Annual Town Meeting shall be 
held on the second Tuesday in November commencing at 7:00 p.m., so that the section reads as fol-
lows: 
The first Annual Town Meeting shall be held on the first Saturday in May commencing at 9:00 a.m., 
and all required reports shall be made at that time. The Annual Town Election shall be held on the 
third Saturday in May commencing at 7:00 a.m. and ending at 5:00 p.m.  The second Annual Town 
Meeting shall be held on the second Tuesday in November commencing at 7:00 p.m.; and in 81 -3 
Closing of Warrant to insert the words “first or second ” before the words “Annual Meeting” both 
times that it appears so that the section reads as follows: 
All requests for the insertion of subjects in the warrant for the first or second Annual Meeting shall be 
submitted on or before 4:00 p.m. on the 42nd day before the date of the first or second Annual Meet-
ing. The requests shall be filed in the office of the Selectmen and the date of filing shall be noted on 
the request. No subject, the insertion of which is requested after the time herein designated, shall be 
inserted in the warrant or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Charter Review 
Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make recommendation at town meet-
ing) Article 28 was PASSED OVER. 
 
ARTICLE 29.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled 
“Salary Administration Plan” as follows:  the position of Outreach Coordinator be added and assigned 
Grade 7; amend the title of Outreach Worker, Grade 6, to Outreach Assistant; and to amend §70.2, 
70.18, and 70.26 as shown on a document entitled “Amendments to the Salary Administration Plan 
Bylaw,” dated April 10, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through 
therein, the entire text of which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk and Board of Selectmen ’s 
Office; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee) (Board of 
Selectmen and Finance Committee recommends approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend the 
Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled “Salary Administration Plan” as follows:  the position of Out-
reach Coordinator be added and assigned Grade 7; amend the title of Outreach Worker, Grade 6, to 
Outreach Assistant; and to amend §70.2, 70.18, and 70.26 as shown on a document entitled 
“Amendments to the Salary Administration Plan Bylaw, ” dated April 10, 2018, with additions to the 
Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, as follows:  
 
SECTION 1. THE PERSONNEL COMMITTEE 
There is hereby established a Personnel Committee consisting of five members, each residing in the 
Town of Lunenburg, to be appointed by the Selectmen and Town Manager , and each member shall 
serve for a term of three years; provided, however, that of the members originally appointed, one shall 
serve a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two for a term of three years, as designated 
by the Selectmen and Town Manager. However, nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the chair-
man of the Personnel Committee from designating a member of said committee to serve as a          
===PAGE 163===
163 
 
 
representative of said Committee on a study committee of the Town Meeting, nor shall such service 
affect the tenure of said member of the Personnel Committee. If any member of the Personnel Com-
mittee shall resign or otherwise vacate the office before the expiration of their term, the successor shall 
be appointed by the Selectmen and Town Moderator, at their discretion, to serve for the balance of the 
unexpired term.  
 
A Town employee may have a staff assignment to serve as a subject matter expert and non -voting 
member serve as an ex officio member of the Personnel Committee and may be called upon from time 
to time to provide information requested by the Personnel Committee so that the Personnel Committee 
can make well informed decisions and proposals. 
 
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Committee shall have access to all facts, figures, records and 
other information relating to the personnel of Town departments other than the School Department , 
and  the same shall be furnished forthwith by any such department whenever so requested by the Per-
sonnel Committee, in such a form as said Committee may require. 
 
SECTION 17.  PAID VACATIONS 
No vacation time may be used in advance of the July 1 date on which it would normally be credited; 
except that where such advance served the needs both of the employee and of the Town, it may be re-
quested by the Department Head and authorized in writing by Town Manager.  In no case shall any 
such advanced vacation exceed the number of days for which the employee would be entitled to com-
pensation, were he/she to terminate their services in good standing on the first day of such vacation , in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5, subparagraph (b), of this section. 
 
SECTION 25.  LONGEVITY PAY  
After reaching ten (10) years of employment, and thereafter, each employee permanently employed, 
whether full or part time, shall receive an annual bonus equal to 2% of their annual salary payable in 
the first pay period after the Employee ’s anniversary date , and is payable in the first pay period after 
July 1st. At 15 years of continuous service – 2.5% of their annual salary, and at 20 years of continuous 
service – 3% of their annual salary. 
 
ARTICLE 30.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, Arti-
cle VIII, §12-22 by inserting the bold text as follows: 
Article VIII Agricultural Commission 
Section 12-22 Membership and appointment; terms 
“The Commission shall consist of five members , and two (2) alternate members, appointed by the 
Board of Selectmen at the recommendation of the Town Manager.  A majority of the membership shall 
be substantially engaged in the pursuit of agriculture.  Members shall be appointed to serve three -year 
terms, except that the initial terms of office shall be staggered at the discretion of the Board of Select-
men, so that the approximately 1/3 of the terms shall expire each year.  The appointing authority shall 
fill any vacancy based on the unexpired term being vacated at the recommendations of the standing 
Commission.” 
Or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Agricultural Commission) (Finance Com-
mittee reports no direct financial impact) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval ) VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 12, Article VIII, §12 -22 by insert-
ing the bold text as follows: 
Article VIII Agricultural Commission 
Section 12-22 Membership and appointment; terms 
“The Commission shall consist of five members, and two (2) alternate members, appointed by 
the Board of Selectmen at the recommendation of the Town Manager.  A majority of the mem-
bership shall be substantially engaged in the pursuit of agriculture.  Members shall be appointed 
to serve three-year terms, except that the initial terms of office shall be staggered at the discre-
tion of the Board of Selectmen, so that the approximately 1/3 of the terms shall expire each year.  
===PAGE 164===
164 
 
The appointing authority shall fill any vacancy based on the unexpired term being vacated at 
the recommendations of the standing Commission.” 
Or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Agricultural Commission) 
(Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact) (Board of Selectmen recommends ap-
proval) VOTED The appointing authority shall fill any vacancy based on the unexpired term 
being vacated at the recommendations of the standing Commission.” 
 
ARTICLE 31.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, § 
4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, and 4.17, which are Sections of the Protective Bylaw, regarding per-
mitted and prohibited uses, generally, as well as the specific use provisions of the Residence and 
Outlying Districts, Recreation District, Limited Business/Residential District, Retail Commercial 
District, Commercial District, Office Park and Industrial District and Village Center District, as 
shown on a document entitled “Uses Regulations by Zoning District,” dated April 10, 2018, with 
additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is 
on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board; or take any action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval and 
Finance Committee – no direct financial impact) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to amend the Code of 
Lunenburg, Chapter 250, § 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, and 4.17, which are Sections of the 
Protective Bylaw, regarding permitted and prohibited uses, generally, as well as the specific 
use provisions of the Residence and Outlying Districts, Recreation District, Limited Business/
Residential District, Retail Commercial District, Commercial District, Office Park and Indus-
trial District and Village Center District, as shown on a document entitled “Uses Regulations 
by Zoning District,” dated April 10, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions 
stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk, 
Board of  Selectmen, and Planning Board: with amendment to the following language: In the 
Use Table 4.1.H(4) Single Family Home to be changed from N to Y. In 4.1.L(1) Auto Sales: Any 
business establishment that sells or leases new or used automobiles, trucks, vans, trailers, off 
highway use recreational vehicles, or motorcycles or other similar motorized transportation 
vehicles. Dealerships may maintain an inventory of the vehicles for sale or lease either on-site 
or at a nearby location and may provide on-site facilities for the repair and service of vehicles 
as an accessory use.  
USE REGULATIONS BY ZONING DISTRICT 
10 April 2018 
§ 250-4.1 Permitted and prohibited uses.  
A. No building or structure shall be constructed and no building, structure or land, or part 
thereof, shall be used for any purpose or in any manner other than: 
(1) One principal permitted use, except as hereinafter provided;  
(2) A use permitted by special permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Planning 
Board;  
(3) An accessory use allowed in Residential and Outlying Districts;  
(4) A residential use in the Retail Commercial and the Commercial District, which shall com-
ply with § 250-5.1D(1).  
===PAGE 165===
165 
 
B. Any use not specifically listed or otherwise permitted in a district herein established shall 
be deemed prohibited. All residential development of 10 or more units permitted pursu-
ant to the Subdivision Control Law (MGL Chapter 41), the Lunenburg Zoning Bylaw 
planned residential area (§ 250-5.5), and the Lunenburg Zoning Bylaw mixed residential de-
velopment (§ 250-5.4), in all districts shall " set aside"  dwelling units for low- or moderate-
income persons and families as defined by the Massachusetts Department of Housing and 
Community Development (DHCD) and said set -aside dwelling units shall qualify for the 
DHCD subsidized housing inventory for the Town of Lunenburg and shall count toward 
the mandate of the housing inventory threshold set in MGL Chapter 40B. 
(1) A development containing 10 or more units shall set aside 10% of the units as moder-
ate- or low-income units. A development containing 36 or more units shall set aside 
15% of the units as moderate- or low-income units. The set-aside units shall conform 
to the zoning requirements of the zone in which the units shall be built. The set -aside 
units  may be developed as sale or rental units. All partial units under this formula 
will be rounded to the next highest number. 
2) The following conditions will prevail: 
(a) The low- or moderate-price set-aside units shall be dispersed within the site.  
(b) The exterior and interior quality and appearance of the set -aside units shall be the same as 
the market-price units. 
(c) The set aside units shall be made available to qualified low - and moderate-income persons 
or families in perpetuity. The Lunenburg Housing Authority will determine the qualified 
persons or families and will administer the process through a lottery.   
C. Nothing in this bylaw shall prohibit, regulate or restrict the use of land or structures in 
any district for the following uses: 
(1) Religious purposes or for educational purposes on land owned or leased by the common-
wealth or any of its agencies, subdivisions or bodies politic or by a nonprofit educational 
corporation, except as provided in MGL c. 40A, § 3, as amended.  
(2) Agriculture, horticulture, floriculture and viticulture, provided that such uses shall be 
limited to parcels of land containing at least five acres.  
(3) Activities accessory to activities otherwise permitted within the district as a matter of right, 
which activities are necessary in connection with scientific research or scientific develop-
ment or related production, whether or not on the same parcel as activities permitted as a 
matter of right, subject to the provisions of § 250-8.3. for a special permit.  
        D. Uses permitted in all districts: 
(1) Cemeteries.  
(2) Municipal buildings and uses.  
(3) Conservation areas for water, plants and wildlife and dams necessary for achieving this 
purpose, farming, including raising, harvesting and storing crops, truck gardening and 
===PAGE 166===
166 
 
         grazing, orchards, nurseries, forest and tree farms and areas for horticulture and floricul-
ture but not including fur farms or piggeries, provided that: 
(a) Equipment necessary for these uses is normally stored in an enclosure.  
(4) Small wastewater treatment facilities which shall be designed and operated in accordance 
with the Lunenburg Planning Board regulations for the design, operation and maintenance 
of small wastewater treatment facilities and sewage pumping stations contained in the 
Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, provided that: 
(a) The location of such plants shall be shown on a development plan approved by the 
Planning Board in accordance with § 250-8.4.  
(b) The facility shall be located on a lot in conformance with the dimensional regulations 
in § 250-5.1 for the district in which it is located or as approved on a special permit 
granted under § 250-5.5, Planned residential area.  
(c) No construction shall be undertaken prior to review, approval and granting of a dis-
posal works construction permit by the Board of Health.  
(d) Communal sewage or wastewater disposal or treatment systems. 
1] In view of the high vulnerability of Lunenburg's wetlands, water absorption areas, water -
bearing bedrock fissures, groundwater supply and individual or private wells to pollution 
and contamination from sewage or wastewater disposal within the Town of Lunenburg, it 
is important, in order to protect the drinking water, the public health and the environ-
ment,            that any communal or central sewage or wastewater disposal or treatment 
plants or systems which may be built in Lunenburg shall be constructed, owned, operated, 
monitored, maintained, repaired and replaced by the Town rather than by private individ-
uals, associations or other private entities, since such plants or systems typically handle 
substantial amounts of sewage, require frequent monitoring, have a useful life far shorter 
than that of the building they serve and pose a substantially greater threat to pollution or 
contamination of wetlands, water absorption areas, groundwater and wells in the event of 
malfunction or failure than do the smaller individual systems serving individual homes.  
[2] For these reasons and to carry out the intent and purposes stated elsewhere in this subsec-
tion and the "Purpose" section (§  250-1.1), the use of privately constructed or privately 
owned, operated and maintained communal sewage or wastewater disposal or treatment 
systems, facilities or plants with capacity in excess of 14,999 gallons per day, serving two or 
more main buildings for commercial or residential use (other than institutional use) is pro-
hibited pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40A (the Zoning Act), Article II, 
Sections I through IX of the Amended Massachusetts Constitution (known as the "Home 
Rule Amendment"), and other provisions of the law. A building permit shall not be issued 
for a building to be served by such a privately constructed or privately owned, operated or 
maintained communal system or plant.  
(5) Child-care facilities, as defined by MGL c. 15D, §  1A, as a "child -care center" or "school -
aged child care program" but not "family child-care home," provided that: 
(a) If the proposed day -care facility requires four or more parking spaces, the site to be used 
shall be shown on a development plan prepared by the applicant and approved by the 
Planning Board in accordance with those parts of § 250-8.4 deemed applicable by the   
===PAGE 167===
167 
 
         Planning Board in accordance with those parts of §  250-8.4 deemed applicable by the Plan-
ning Board based on the scale of the application.  
(b) The lot area shall conform to the area requirements contained in §  250-5.1 or, if none is pre-
scribed for the district in which it is located, or if it is a legal nonconforming lot, the area 
shall be a minimum of 20,000 square feet.  
(c) The building used for the purpose conforms to all dimensional regulations contained in 
Article V which are applicable in the district in which it is located and to all require-
ments of Article VI pertaining to off -street parking and loading areas, lot monuments, 
land, driveways and entrances, signs and performance standards, and further provided 
that buildings, structures, driveways, walkways, parking areas and other impervious 
surfaces shall not cover more than 20% of the total lot area on which the facility is lo-
cated.  
(d) No building or structure shall exceed 35 feet in height in Residence A, Residence B, Out-
lying, Recreation or Limited Business Districts and shall not exceed 35 feet in height 
elsewhere unless shown on the development plan and approved by the Planning Board.  
(e)   With the exception of a driveway and walkway, no required front yard shall be paved or used 
for the purposes of the child-care facility.  
(f) Parking areas and play areas shall be located behind the setback line in the side or rear of the 
building used for a child -care facility and shall be screened from abutting residences in the 
same manner as is required in the second sentence of § 250-6.6Q(1).  
(g) Any new or remodeled structure shall be designed to be compatible with the character of the 
neighborhood in which it is located.  
(h) In addition all requirements of § 250-8.4: 
[1] A traffic impact statement form designated by the Planning Board will be completed and 
submitted to the Planning Board, which will determine whether a traffic study prepared by a 
registered engineer will be required.  
[2] The Planning Board shall be satisfied that there is safe access and ingress and egress to and 
from the site, as provided in Article VI and § 250-8.4.  
E. Prohibited uses. 
(1) Uses prohibited in all districts: 
(a) Nonpermanent residential structures, trailers and mobile homes [except in an existing mobile 
home park or as provided for in §  250-4.2A(14)], but not including recreational vehicles which 
are parked for a limited time as approved by the Building Commissioner.  
(b) Nonpermanent business structures, such as trailers, trucks, storage boxes, open -air stands 
and carts used for office space, retail space, wholesale storage, except for an accessory use as 
permitted in §§ 250-4.6C(1)(l) and 250-4.7B(2)(d).  
(c) Storage of explosive materials, except in accordance with the provisions of § 250-6.6A(1).  
===PAGE 168===
168 
 
F. Small wind energy systems (SWES) and commercial wind energy systems (CWES); uses 
permissible by development plan review granted by the Planning Board. 
(1) Small wind energy system (SWES) in any district on a lot of one acre or more, subject to 
the provisions of § 250-6.6F(2).  
(2) Commercial wind energy system (CWES) on Town-owned property or on 10 acres.  
G. Use Table1 
 
 
RA = Residence A District    R = Recreation  
District 
   
RB = Residence B District    VCD = Village Center District 
O = Outlying District    SS = Summer Street Revitalization Overlay  
District 
LB/R = Limited Business/Residential  
District 
 TT = Tri Town Smart Growth  
District 
C = Commercial District    W = Whalom 
Overlay District 
  
OP/I = Office Park and Industrial  
District 
        
 
4.1D USES PERMITTED 
IN ALL DIS-
TRICTS 
RA RB O LB/
R 
C OP/
I 
R VC
D 
SS2 TT2 W2 
4.1.D.
(1) 
Cemeteries Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1.D.
(2) 
Municipal Uses Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1.D.
(3) 
Conservation Areas Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1.D.
(4) 
Small Wastewater 
Treatment Facilities 
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1.D.
(5) 
Child Care Facilities Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1.H RESIDENTIAL 
USES 
RA RB O LB/
R 
C OP/
I 
R VC
D 
SS TT W 
===PAGE 169===
169 
 
 4.1H.
(1) 
Accessory Dwelling Y Y Y Y - - - Y - - RA
-Y 
4.1.H.
(2) 
Boarding House SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- - - - - - - RA
-
SP
-
PB 
4.1H
(3) 
Multi-Family 
Dwelling 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- Y RA
-
SP
-
PB 
4.1H
(4) 
Single Family 
Dwelling 
Y Y Y Y - - - SP - - RA
-Y 
4.1H
(5) 
Two Family Dwell-
ing 
Y Y Y Y - - Y SP - - RA
-Y 
4.1H
(6) 
Townhouse SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- - - - - - SP
-
PB 
                          
                          
4.1I INSTITUTIONAL 
USES 
RA RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R VC
D 
SS TT W 
4.1I(1) Assisted Living - - - SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- C-
SP
-
PB 
4.1I(2) Charitable Institu-
tion 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
Y - Y SP-
Z 
Y - RA
-
SP
-
PB 
4.1I(3) Church Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1I(4) Educational Use Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1I(5) Hospital SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- SP-
Z 
- - - - - RA
-
SP
-
PB 
4.1I(6) Government  Build-
ing 
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y - Y 
4.1I(7) Public Utility SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
Y Y SP-
Z 
Y Y - RA
-
SP
-Z/
C-
Y 
4.1I(8) Water Supply Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y RA
-Y 
===PAGE 170===
170 
 
 4.1J RECREATIONAL 
USES 
RA RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R VC
D 
SS TT W 
4.1J(1) Outdoor Entertain-
ment 
- - - - Y Y Y - Y Y RA
-Y 
4.1J(2) Indoor Entertain-
ment 
- - - - Y Y - SP-
Z 
Y - C-
Y 
4.1J(3) Golf Course - - SP-
Z 
- - - Y - - - - 
4.1J(4) Private Club SP-Z SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
- C-
SP-
Z 
4.1J(5) Private Camp - - SP-
Z 
- - - Y - - - - 
4.1K COMMERCIAL 
USES 
RA RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R VC
D 
SS TT W 
4.1K
(1) 
Adult Use - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- C-
SP-
Z 
4.1K
(2) 
Auction House - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - - Y - C-
Y 
4.1K
(3) 
Bed & Breakfast SP-Z SP-
Z 
SP-
Z 
Y - - - Y - - C-
SP-
Z 
4.1K
(4) 
Drive-in Theater - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - - - C-
SP-
Z 
4.1K
(5) 
Hotel - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - - - C-
SP-
Z 
4.1K
(6) 
Laundry Service - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - - Y - C-
Y 
4.1K
(7) 
Liquor Store - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - SP-
Z 
Y - C-
Y 
4.1K
(8) 
Medical Clinic - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - Y Y - C-
Y 
4.1K COMMERCIAL 
USES (cont'd) 
RA RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R VC
D 
SS TT W 
4.1K
(9) 
Mixed Use - - - Y Y - - Y Y - - 
4.1K
(10) 
Motel - - - - Y - - - - - C-
Y 
4.1K
(11) 
Office Park - - - - - Y - - - - - 
4.1K
(12) 
Pawn Shop - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - - SP-
Z 
- C-
Y 
4.1K
(13) 
Personal Improvement 
Service 
- - - SP-
Z 
Y - - Y Y C-
Y 
- 
4.1K
(14) 
Professional Office - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - Y Y - C-
Y 
===PAGE 171===
171 
 
 4.1K
(15) 
Retail Establish-
ment 
- - - Y Y - - Y Y - 
4.1K
(16) 
Restaurant - - - Y Y - - Y Y - 
4.1K
(17) 
Restaurant, Carry -
Out 
- - - Y Y - - SP-
Z 
Y - 
4.1K
(18) 
 Service Establish-
ment 
- - - Y Y - - - Y - 
4.1K
(19) 
Shopping Center - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- 
                        
4.1L HEAVY COM-
MERCIAL USE 
RA RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R VC
D 
SS TT 
4.1L
(1) 
Auto Sales - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(2) 
Auto Repair Facili-
ty 
- - - - SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(3) 
Boat Service Yard - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(4) 
Car Wash - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - Y - 
4.1L
(5) 
Construction Sales 
& Service 
- - - - Y Y - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(6) 
Contractor Yard - - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - - - 
4.1L
(7) 
Equipment Sales - - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(8) 
Equipment Repair 
Service 
- - - - SP-
Z 
Y - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(9) 
Fuel Service Station - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - SP-
Z 
- 
4.1L
(10) 
Repair Shop - - - Y Y - - - Y - 
4.1L
(11) 
Trade Shop - - - - Y Y - - Y - 
4.1M INDUSTRIAL US-
ES 
RA RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R VC
D 
SS TT 
4.1M
(1) 
Distribution - - - - - Y - - - - 
4.1M
(2) 
Industrial Parks - - - - - Y - - - - 
4.1M
(3) 
Manufacturing - - - - - Y - - - - 
4.1M
(4) 
Research Establish-
ment 
- - - - - SP-
Z 
- - - - 
===PAGE 172===
172 
 
1.Any use not defined or included in the Use Table shall be considered prohibited in all Dis-
tricts.  
2.In the Use Table those uses listed under the Overlay Districts are applicable only when us-
ing the provisions of the subject Overlay District. Otherwise, the existing underlying Zoning 
District and its allowed uses will apply. 
 
 
 
 
4.1N OTHER USES R
A 
RB O LB
/R 
C OP
/I 
R V
C
D 
SS TT W 
4.1N
(1) 
Agriculture Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
4.1N
(2) 
Agricultural Sales 
& Service 
SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
Y - - - SP
-Z 
- C-
Y 
4.1N
(3) 
Earth Removal SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP 
4.1N
(4) 
Kennel SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
- SP
-Z 
- - - - - C-
SP
-Z 
4.1N
(5) 
Veterinary Hospi-
tal 
SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
SP
-Z 
- SP
-Z 
- - - - SP - 
250-
4.13 
Large Solar Ener-
gy Systems 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
250-
4.14 
Registered Mariju-
ana Dispensaries 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
SP
-
PB 
===PAGE 173===
173 
 
H RESIDENTIAL USES: 
(1) Accessory Dwelling: A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction with and clearly subordi-
nate to a primary dwelling unit, whether a part of the same structure as the primary dwelling unit or a 
detached dwelling unit on the same lot. The dwelling shall include a separate, complete housekeeping 
unit with a separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities. Given that it meets the 
following criteria:  
(a) The primary building has at least twelve hundred (1200) square feet of floor area. 
(b) The entire structure used for dwellings shall not occupy more than fifty (50) percent of the lot area. 
(c) There is at least one (1) off street parking space for each bedroom or efficiency apartment in the con-
verted portion of the structure, which space shall be provided in conjunction with other parking 
facilities. 
(d) There is provision for screening by fencing or landscaping of outside storage areas. 
(e) No accessory unit shall have a floor area of less than five hundred (500) square feet plus one  
hundred (100) square feet for each bedroom over one (1). 
(f) The floor area of the accessory unit shall not be more than thirty (30) percent of the normally habita-
ble floor area of a combination of the dwelling units, after conversion. 
(g) Each unit shall be a complete and independent housekeeping unit, containing a bedroom or bedroom/
living room combination, bathroom and kitchen or kitchenette and shall have a separate en-
trance. 
(h) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered except for: 
[1] stairways and exits required by law, 
[2] consistent with the original architecture of the structure. 
(i) The lot and all structures shall be owned in common and one (1) of the units shall be occupied by the 
property owner. 
(j) If the second unit is discontinued and integrated into the original structure design, the owner shall 
notify the Inspector of Buildings in writing. 
(k) No permit for accessory housing granted hereunder shall take effect sooner than one (1) year after 
occupancy of the primary dwelling, nor until the owner/petitioner records the authorization in 
the applicable Registry of Deeds at his own expense. 
(l) All permits for accessory housing must be secured before any construction is undertaken. 
(2) Boarding House: A single -family dwelling where more than two, but fewer than six rooms are pro-
vided for lodging for definite periods of times. Meals may or may not be provided, but there is one com-
mon kitchen facility. No meals are provided to outside guests. 
(3) Multi-Family Dwelling: A building consisting of not more than four dwelling units which are attached 
by common vertical walls and each unit having a separate or combined entrance or entrances.  
(4) Single Family Dwelling: A detached building on a single lot containing one dwelling unit, or a facto-
ry- assembled structure constructed to state building code standards. 
===PAGE 174===
174 
 
(5) Two-Family Dwelling: A residential structure designed to house a single -family unit from lowest 
level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a private lot, and sharing a 
common wall adjoining dwelling units.  
(6) Town House: Single-family attached unit in structures housing three or more dwelling units, con-
tiguous to each other only by the sharing of one common bearing or party wall; such structures are to 
be of the townhouse or rowhouse type as contrasted to multiple -dwelling apartment structures. No 
single structure shall contain in excess of five dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall have sepa-
rate and individual front and rear entrances.  
I INSTITUTIONAL USES 
(1) Assisted Living: A special combination of housing, supportive services, personalized assistance, 
and health care designed to respond to the individual needs of those who need help with activities of 
daily living. A facility with a central or private kitchen, dining, recreational, and other facilities, with 
separate bedrooms or living quarters, where the emphasis of the facility remains residential. 
(2) Charitable Institution: Any entity which: (1) has been certified as a not -for-profit organizations 
under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue code, and (2) has religious, charitable, or elee-
mosynary functions or is a religious or charitable organization. As used in this definition, a chari-
table organization is an organization which exclusively, and in a manner consistent with existing 
laws and for the benefit of an indefinite number of persons, freely and voluntarily ministers to the 
physical, mental, or spiritual needs of persons, and which thereby lessens the burdens of govern-
ment. 
(3) Church: A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which is main-
tained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship, together with all acces-
sory buildings and uses customarily associated with such primary purpose. Includes synagogue, tem-
ple, mosque, or other such place for worship and religious activities.  
(4) Educational Use: Use of land or a building or buildings as or for an institution not for profit but for 
the establishment and maintenance of a public or private college, secondary, elementary, trade or vo-
cational school or other educational institution for the academic instruction and cultivation of the 
mind and/or the inculcation of a clearer sense of moral and spiritual values.  
(5) Hospital: An institution, licensed by the state department of health, providing primary health ser-
vices and medical and/or surgical and/or mental health care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering 
from illness, disease, injury, deformity, and other physical or mental conditions, and including as an 
integral part of the institution, related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, or training 
facilities.  
(6) Government Building: Any building held, used, or controlled exclusively for public purposes by 
any department or branch of government, state, county, or municipal, without reference to the owner-
ship of the building or of the realty upon which it is situated. A building belonging to or used by the 
public for the transaction of public or quasi-public business.  
(7) Public Utility: All lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution, collection, trans-
mission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, oil, gas, power, information, telecommuni-
cation and telephone cable, and includes facilities for the generation of electricity.  Facilities shall be 
licensed by the Department of Public Utilities (DPU). 
===PAGE 175===
175 
 
(8) Water Supply: A system for the provision to the public of piped water for human consumption if 
the system serves 15 or more service connections or which regularly serves 25 or more individuals. 
The term includes: (a) any collection, treatment, storage, or distribution facility under control of the 
operator of the system and used primarily in connection with the system; and (b) any collection or pre-
treatment storage facility not under the control of the operator of the system which is used primarily in 
connection with the system.  
J RECREATION USES 
(1) Outdoor Entertainment: Any establishment whose main purpose is to provide the general public 
with an amusing or entertaining activity and where tickets are sold or fees are collected for the activity. 
Includes, but not limited to, skating rinks, water slides, miniature golf courses, arcades, bowling alleys, 
and billiard halls, but not movie theaters. 
(2) Indoor Entertainment: An establishment providing completely enclosed recreation activities. Ac-
cessory uses may include the preparation and serving of food or the sale of equipment related to 
the enclosed uses. Included in this definition shall be bowling, rollerskating or ice -skating, bil-
liards, pool, motion picture theaters, and related amusements. 
(3) Golf Course: A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes for playing a game of golf and im-
proved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. A golf course may include a clubhouse, restaurant, 
golf-related retail, restrooms, driving range, and shelters as accessory uses. 
(4) Private Club: A facility open only to bona fide members and guests of the private organization op-
erating the facility. This includes recreational centers for the exclusive use of members and their guests 
with facilities that may include swimming pools and/or tennis courts, but specifically excluding golf 
courses. 
(5) Private Camp: Land under single ownership and management having tents, buildings, or other shel-
ters (not including recreational vehicles or mobile homes) for recreational or educational purposes and 
accommodating four or more people for two or more days, or portions thereof. 
(6) Recreation: The refreshment of body and mind through forms of play, amusement, or relaxation. 
The recreational experience may be active, such as boating, fishing, and swimming, or may be pas-
sive, such as enjoying the natural beauty of the shoreline or its wildlife. 
K COMMERCIAL USES 
(1) Adult Use: Adult uses, as defined by Section 9A of Chapter 40A, provided that: 
(a) All buildings containing adult uses are at least two hundred fifty (250) feet from an existing re-
dence, school or place of worship and are at least five hundred (500) feet from an existing Residen-
tial or Outlying District boundary. 
(b) All parking is in the rear of the setback line and is screened from view of abutting properties. 
(c)       All signs shall be approved by Development Plan Review and the Planning Board shall review 
the size, location, number, design, color and content to determine a public nuisance or be in-
compatible with the character of the community and, as to content, to determine only that the 
sign or signs are not obscene. 
===PAGE 176===
176 
 
(d) All requirements of Section 9A of Chapter 40A are met including that no Special Permit is granted 
to a person (s) who have been convicted of violating the provisions of Section 63 of Chapter 
119 or Section 28 of Chapter 272 of MGL.  
(e) The Board of Selectmen may require that a security guard be on the premises during all or some 
hours of operation. 
(2) Auction House: A building, area, or areas within a building used for the public sale of goods, 
wares, merchandise, or equipment to the highest bidder. This definition excludes therefrom an auction, 
the principal purpose of which is the sale of livestock or motor vehicles. 
(3) Bed & Breakfast: Bed and Breakfast, or Bed and Breakfast Establishment provided that: 
(a) The use complies with the Commonwealth ’s [MGL 64b Section 1 (a) and/or (b)]definition of Bed 
and Breakfast, or Bed and Breakfast Establishment provided the dwelling is owner occupied. 
(b) The lot conforms to all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Bylaw. 
(c) Parking for each room available for rent is provided in the side yard behind the setback line or in 
the rear yard, but not nearer than ten (10) feet to any property line.  One (1) parking place shall 
be provided for each bedroom. 
(d) The outside appearance of the building is not altered except to comply with the Building    
       Code. 
(4) Drive-in Theater: An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant facilities, devoted primarily to 
the showing of moving pictures on a paid admission basis to patrons seated in automobiles, this does 
not include Adult Theaters.  
(5) Hotel: An establishment providing, for a fee, sleeping accommodations, which are generally ac-
cessed through a lobby, corridor or internal hallway and customary lodging services, including 
maid service, the furnishing and upkeep of furniture and bed linens, and telephone and desk ser-
vice. Related ancillary uses may include but shall not be limited to conference and meeting rooms, 
restaurants, bars, and recreational facilities. 
(6) Laundry Service: A business that provides washing, drying, and/or ironing services for a fee or 
machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises. 
(7) Liquor Store: Any business selling general alcoholic beverages, including distilled spirits or hard 
liquor, beer, wine and malt beverages for off-premises consumption.  
(8) Medical Clinic: A facility operated by a collected group of physicians, dentists, chiropractors or 
other licensed practitioners of the healing arts for the examination and treatment of persons solely 
on an outpatient basis. This is contrasted with an unrelated group of such offices. 
9) Mixed Use: A combination of commercial and residential uses within a single building or lot. In the 
case of uses that require a Special Permit, a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on 
the use prior to filing for Planning Board Site Plan Approval. 
10) Motel: A building or series of buildings in which lodging is offered for compensation, and which 
is distinguished from a hotel primarily by reason of providing direct independent access to, and adjoin-
ing parking for, each rental unit. 
===PAGE 177===
177 
 
(11) Office Park: A development on a tract of land that contains a number of separate businesses, of-
fices, light manufacturing facilities, accessory and supporting uses, and common open space designed, 
planned, and constructed on an integrated and coordinated basis. 
(12) Pawn Shop: An establishment that engages, in whole or in part, in the business of loaning money 
on the security of pledges of personal property, or deposits or conditional sales of personal property, 
or the purchase or sale of personal property. 
(13) Personal Improvement Service: A business primarily providing instruction and/or facilities for 
dancing, martial arts, music instruction, physical exercise, fitness training, or other voluntary physical 
or mental health services not related to a medical diagnosis.  
(14) Professional Office: Offices or studios of professional or service occupations or agencies which 
are characterized by low traffic and pedestrian volumes, lack of distracting, irritating, or sustained 
noise, and low density of building developments. This includes but is not limited to accountant, ap-
praiser, architect, engineer, insurance adjuster, landscape architect, lawyer, consultant, secretarial 
agency, bonding agency, real estate, mortgage or title agency, and investment agency. 
(15) Retail Establishment: Sale or rental with incidental service of commonly used goods and mer-
chandise for personal or household use but excludes those classified more specifically by definition. 
(16) Restaurant: An establishment where food and/or beverages are prepared, served, and consumed, 
and whose principal method of operation includes one or both of the following characteristics: (1) 
customers are normally provided with an individual menu and served their food and beverages by a 
restaurant employee at the same table or counter where the items are consumed; or (2) a cafeteria-type 
operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant building. 
(17) Restaurant, Carry-Out: A restaurant where food, frozen dessert, or beverages are primarily sold 
in disposable packaging, ready -to-consume, and is intended for ready consumption by the customer 
on or off the premises. 
(18) Service Establishment: Any establishment whose primary activity is the provision of assistance, 
as opposed to products, to individuals, business, industry, government, and other enterprises. 
(19)Shopping Center: A single piece of real estate containing more than three commercial establish-
ments and a total business space of more than 5,000 square feet planned, constructed, and man-
aged as a total entity with customer and employee parking provided on site. 
L HEAVY COMMERCIAL USES 
(1) Auto Sales: Any business establishment that sells or leases new or used automobiles, trucks, vans, 
trailers, off  highway use recreational vehicles, or motorcycles or other similar motorized trans-
portation vehicles.  Dealerships may maintain an inventory of the vehicles for sale or lease either 
on-site or at a nearby location and may provide on-site facilities for the repair and service of vehi-
cles as an accessory use.  Auto Body Shop: Activities involving the repair, painting, or undercoat-
ing of the body or frame of vehicles. Body and frame repair does not include mechanical engine 
or power train repair. 
(2) Auto Repair Facility: Any building, structure, improvements, or land used for the repair and 
maintenance of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, trailers, or similar vehicles including but not limited 
to body, fender, muffler, or upholstery work, oil change and lubrication, painting, tire service and 
===PAGE 178===
178 
 
sales, or installation of remote start, car alarms, and/or stereo equipment. 
(3) Boat Service Yard: Facility (which could include a boat repair garage, boat storage yard) where 
boats are repaired and stored until repairs are completed. 
(4) Car Wash: Mechanical facilities for the washing and/or waxing and/or detailing of private automo-
biles, light trucks and vans. The use of personnel for one or more phases of this operation in conjunc-
tion with or without complete automatic or mechanical devices does not alter its classification and coin
-operated devices operated on a self -service basis shall be construed to be the same. This definition is 
not applicable to fleet vehicle and truck wash facilities not open to the public.  
(5) Construction Sales and Service: Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in retail or 
wholesale sale, from the premises, of materials and light equipment used in the construction of build-
ings, landscape features or other structures, but specifically excluding automobile or heavy equipment 
supplies, sales and rentals.  
(6) Contractor Yard: Any land or buildings housing the offices of and used for the storage of equip-
ment, vehicles, machinery (new or used), building materials, paints, pipe, or electrical components 
used by the owner or occupant of the premises in the conduct of any building trades or building craft.  
(7) Equipment Repair Service: Establishments primarily engaged in the repair of tools, trucks, tractors, 
construction equipment, agricultural implements, and similar industrial equipment. Included in this use 
type is the incidental storage and/or sale of such pre-owned equipment. 
(8) Equipment Sales: Establishments primarily engaged in the sale or rental of tools, trucks, construc-
tion equipment, and similar industrial equipment. Included in this use type is the incidental storage, 
maintenance, and servicing of such equipment. 
(9) Fuel Service Station: That portion of property where flammable or combustible liquids or gases 
used as fuel are stored and dispersed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. Such 
an establishment may offer for sale at retail other convenience items as a clearly secondary activity, repair 
service, and may also include a freestanding automatic car wash. 
(10) Outdoor Storage/Display: An outdoor arrangement of objects, items, products, or other materials, 
typically not in a fixed position and capable of rearrangement, designed and used for the purpose 
of advertising or identifying a business, product, or service. 
(11) Repair Shop: Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of repair services to individuals 
but excluding automotive and equipment repair use types. Typical uses include appliance repair 
shops, shoe repair, watch or jewelry repair shops, or repair of musical instruments. 
(12)Trade Shop: Building or portion of a building used to conduct the business of a carpenter, cabinet-
maker, electrician, painter, paperhanger, plumber, printer, sign painter, upholsterer or similar 
tradesman or artisan. 
M INDUSTRIAL USES: 
(1) Distribution: Storage, wholesale, and shipment or movement of manufactured products, supplies, 
and equipment, excluding bulk storage of materials that are inflammable or explosive or that present 
hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive. 
===PAGE 179===
179 
 
 (2) Industrial Parks: A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land with two or more separate 
lots or industrial buildings. Such development is planned, designed, constructed, and managed on an 
integrated and coordinated basis with special attention given to on-site vehicular circulation, parking, 
utility needs, building design, orientation, and open space. 
(3) Manufacturing: The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new 
products, including the assembling of component parts, the creation of products, and the blending of 
materials including but not limited to oils, plastics, resins, etc., which by the nature of the materials, 
equipment, and process utilized are not objectionable by reason of odor, radiation, noise, vibration, 
gas fumes, dust, smoke, refuse matter or water-carried waste. 
(4) Research Establishment: Laboratories or other facilities that perform research, development, and 
testing but whose activities do not involve the mass manufacture, fabrication, processing, or sale of 
products. Such uses shall not violate any odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, radiation, vibration, or similar 
pollution standard. 
N OTHER USES: 
(1) Agriculture: Activities including but not limited to 
(a) Farming in all its branches and the cultivation and tillage of the soil 
(b) Dairying 
(c) Production, cultivation, growing and harvesting of any agricultural, floricultural, viticulture or 
horticultural commodities 
(d) Growing and harvesting of forest products upon forest land and any other forestry or lumbering 
operations 
(e) Keeping and raising of livestock, horses, poultry, swine, cattle sheep, ratites (such as emus, os-
triches, rheas) and camelids (such as llamas and alpacas) and other domesticated animals for 
food or other agricultural purpose, including bees and fur bearing animals. 
(2) Agriculture Sales and Service: A use primarily engaged in the sale or rental of farm tools and im-
plements, feed, grain, tack, animal care products, farm supplies, agricultural machinery, equipment, 
and supplies for use in soil preparation and maintenance, the planting and harvesting of crops, and 
other operations and processes pertaining to farming and ranching. This includes food sales and farm 
machinery repair services that are accessory to the principal use.  
(3) Earth Removal: The removal, extraction, excavation, fill, or grading for any purpose of soil, sand, 
shell, limestone, dolomite, gravel, ore, rock, clay, peat, or any material by whatever process.  
(4) Kennel: The boarding, breeding, raising, grooming, or training of two or more dogs, cats, or other 
household pets of any age not owned by the owner or occupant of the premises, and/or for commer-
cial gain. 
(5) Veterinary Hospital: Any facility maintained by or for the use of a licensed veterinarian in 
the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of animal  health conditions wherein the animals are limited to 
dogs, cats, or other comparable household pets and wherein the overnight care of said animals is pro-
hibited except when necessary in the medical treatment of the animal. 
 
===PAGE 180===
180 
 
250-4.2 Residential & Outlying Districts 
 
A. Accessory Uses:  
 
(1) Temporary placement of a mobile home or trailer for temporary use as a dwelling notwithstanding 
provisions herein contained to the contrary, provided, however; 
 
(a) Such use is necessary to provide housing for occupants of a dwelling house (exclusive of a summer 
camp) which has recently been rendered uninhabitable by fire or other disaster, 
(b) The dwelling was being continuously used as a dwelling at the time of disaster and the Building 
Commissioner has determined after examination that the dwelling house is uninhabitable without im-
mediate and substantial repairs. 
(c)  Such temporary use of the premises shall not exceed one (1) year from the date of the granting of 
the permit, but application for an extension of the time may be made to the Building Official who shall 
be governed by the same provisions as in the granting of the original permit, so far as applicable, pro-
vided no extension shall extend such use beyond two (2) years from the original granting of such per-
mit. 
(d) Mobile homes and trailers used as temporary owner living quarters during construction of a perma-
nent home shall be permitted only after the building permit and other required permits for the perma-
nent structure have been issued, and a temporary permit has been granted by the Building Official, 
which temporary permit shall be granted only for a determined length of time up to, but not more than 
one (1) year. 
 
(2) The raising or keeping of poultry, saddle horse(s), livestock or other farm animals for non -
commercial use on properties that are not exempt under the General Laws Chapter 40A Section 3. 
(3) Tool shed, playhouse, tennis/basketball court, boat house or other structure for domestic use; pri-
vate garage for motor vehicles, but not including more than one (a) commercial vehicle used for a 
commercial enterprise or more than one (1) school bus or farm vehicles.   
(4) The use of a room or rooms, in a dwelling or building accessory thereto by a resident of the prem-
ises as an office, studio or workroom for a home occupation, provided that: 
(a) Such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the premises for dwelling purposes, 
(b) Not more than two (2) persons other than residents of the premises are regularly employed thereon 
in connection with such use, 
(c) No stock in trade is regularly maintained, except for products of the occupation itself or for goods 
or materials which are customarily stored, used or sold incidental to its performance, 
(d) From the exterior of the building so used, there is not visible any display of goods or products, 
storage of materials or equipment, regular parking of commercial vehicles or any other exterior indica-
tion that the premises are being utilized for any purpose other than residential (except for an accessory 
sign). 
 
250-4.3 Recreation District: 
 
A. Special Conditions & Design Standards: 
 
(1) Night lighting of parking areas shall be directed downward, not affect abutting properties and be 
Dark Sky Compliant. 
(2) Landscaped or naturally vegetated buffers shall be provided along the periphery of the property. 
(3) Outdoor facilities which generate noise, such as swimming pool or a shooting range, shall be lo-
cated and buffered so as not to be a nuisance and an unenclosed pool, if any, shall be set back from 
any public street at least two hundred (200) feet. 
(4) Natural features shall be preserved to the maximum extent practicable. 
(5) Stone walls and man -made features which improve or contribute to the character of the area shall 
be maintained where possible. 
 
