===PAGE 181===
181 
 
(6) Service areas shall be screened from active recreation areas. 
(7) Reasonable mitigation measures shall be taken to address traffic, parking and safety (including road 
safety) concerns posed by the proposed development. The Planning Board will review measures during 
Site Plan Approval as deemed necessary. 
(8) There shall be more than one (1) means of access. 
(9) All residents of the Town shall be eligible for membership. 
(10) In the case proposed proposal is adjacent to a Planned Residential Area, special care will be taken 
to coordinate the development with the Planned Residential Area. 
(11) Maximum capacity limitations shall be established by the Licensing Authority for accessory facil-
ities, including restaurants and function rooms, after recommendations from appropriate Town Boards, 
including (but not necessarily limited to) the Planning Board, Board of Health, Fire Chief, Building 
Official and Police Chief.  Maximum capacity limitations shall be based on, but not limited to, the fol-
lowing criteria, but in no case shall exceed two hundred (200) persons; provision for adequate off -
street parking in accordance with Section 250 -6.1 of this Code of Lunenburg; provision for adequate 
wastewater disposal; provision for adequate refuse disposal provision for crowd control and security; 
and no adverse impact on adjacent uses. 
(12) No more than ten (10) percent of the total lot area shall be covered by an impervious surface. 
 
250-4.4  Limited Business/Residential District: 
 
A. Accessory Uses:  
 
(1) Function Facility, allowed only as an accessory to Bed & Breakfast, Hotel, Farm, and Restaurant 
uses, to serve as a facility for meetings and other functions to include reception, dinners, weddings and 
business and civic meetings and similar social affairs and further provided that: 
(a) The building is located on a lot of at least two (2) acres. 
(b) The primary structure plus accessory buildings devoted to the use shall contain at least three thou-
sand (3000) square feet of floor area. 
(c) Additions to the floor areas, if any, shall not exceed fifty (50) per cent of the existing floor area and 
shall conform to the architectural style of the existing building. 
(d) The number of persons attending events shall be determined by the maximum number allowed by 
Building Code, the Board of Health Regulations and/or the Sewer Commission Permit. 
(e) The number of events in any calendar year shall be determined during the Site Plan Approval pro-
cess. 
(f) Anticipated parking shall be provided and parking of over fifty (50) vehicles may require a traffic 
policeman at the discretion of the Police Department. 
(g) Outside lighting or music, if any, shall not extend beyond ten (10) PM and shall be limited in so far 
as possible to the property on which the use is located.  No lighting shall be reflected into adjacent 
abutters’ properties.  The level of sound shall be no higher than 70 decibels at the property line or be-
yond. 
(h) Tents or suitable enclosures to be used in connection with an event shall be located within the set-
back and shall be erected and removed within twenty -four (24) hours of the beginning and end of the 
event. 
(2) Catering Service 
(a) Kitchen and cooking facilities, allowed only as an accessory to Bed & Breakfast and Hotel and 
Restaurant uses. On the premise and off site catering must meet Board of Health Regulations and/
or any other pertinent permitting requirement. 
(b) Any vehicle identified for business used in connection with making catering deliveries must be gar-
aged or parked in an in conspicuous location on the property, preferably the rear of the structure, if 
practicable. 
(3) Any use allowed by right or special permit within the zoning district provided that:  
(a) They are associated with the primary use of the property. 
(b) They comprise no more than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross floor area of the building. 
===PAGE 182===
182 
 
(c) Any permissible Accessory Use that comprises greater than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross 
floor area may be allowed by Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals.  
(4) Drive Through Service may be allowed by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Com-
mercial and Office/Industrial Park Districts, In the approval of the Special Permit the Planning Board 
shall take the following items into consideration: 
(a) The minimum space available for vehicles to queue on-site shall not be less than ten (10) cars.  
(b) That the drive through service window be located on the side or rear of the building.  
(c) The lane accessing the drive through service window shall not restrict other vehicular access 
around the building. 
 
(4) Outdoor Storage/Display may be allowed by Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals 
with the following conditions.  
(a) All outdoor storage, excluding that specifically designated for display, shall be screened as to not 
be visible from abutting properties and/or the public right of way.  
(b) Display may be permitted in areas visible from the public Right -of-Way and neighboring proper-
ties, provided it does not create a nuisance by the introduction of noise, vibration, dust or other physi-
cal or sensory impact on abutting properties.  
(c) No storage or display shall be permitted within the required building setbacks. 
(d) No storage or display shall be allowed in any area that would interfere with parking, loading, 
travel or pedestrian facilities that are required by law.  
 
B. Special Conditions & Design Standards: 
 
(1) The architectural style of the original structure shall not be altered and new construction shall be 
of a residential style consistent with the present residences. 
(2) There shall be no drive-through window service. 
(3) All parking shall be off -street, shall not be located within the required setback of the principal 
building or in an area approved in the Site Plan Review. 
(4) There shall be no exterior storage, display or sales, without obtaining a Special Permit. 
(5) There shall be no exterior structural evidence of the non -residential use of the structure, with the 
exception of signs conforming with the provisions of Section 250-6.5 of the Code of Lunenburg. 
 
250-4.5 Commercial District: 
 
A. Accessory Uses: 
 
(1) Function Facility, allowed only as an accessory to Bed & Breakfast, Hotel, Farm, and Restaurant 
uses, to serve as a facility for meetings and other functions to include reception, dinners, weddings 
and business and civic meetings and similar social affairs and further provided that: 
(a) The building is located on a lot of at least two (2) acres. 
(b) The primary structure plus accessory buildings devoted to the use shall contain at least three thou-
sand (3000) square feet of floor area. 
(c) Additions to the floor areas, if any, shall not exceed fifty (50) per cent of the existing floor area 
and shall conform to the architectural style of the existing building. 
(d) The number of persons attending events shall be determined by the maximum number allowed by 
Building Code, the Board of Health Regulations and/or the Sewer Commission Permit. 
(e) The number of events in any calendar year shall be determined during the Site Plan Approval pro-
cess. 
(f) Anticipated parking shall be provided and parking of over fifty (50) vehicles may require a traffic 
policeman at the discretion of the Police Department. 
g) Outside lighting or music, if any, shall not extend beyond ten (10) PM and shall be limited in so 
far as possible to the property on which the use is located.  No lighting shall be reflected into adja-
cent abutters’ properties.  The level of sound shall be no higher than 70 decibels at the property line 
or beyond. 
===PAGE 183===
183 
 
(h) Tents or suitable enclosures to be used in connection with an event shall be located within the set-
back and shall be erected and removed within twenty -four (24) hours of the beginning and end of the 
event. 
 
(2) Catering Service 
(a) Kitchen and cooking facilities, allowed only as an accessory to Bed & Breakfast and Hotel and 
Restaurant uses On the premise and off site catering must meet Board of Health Regulations and/or 
any other pertinent permitting requirement. 
(b) Any vehicle identified for business used in connection with making catering deliveries must be 
garaged or parked in an in conspicuous location on the property, preferably the rear of the structure, if 
practicable. 
 
(3) Any use allowed by right or special permit within the zoning district provided that  
(a) They are associated with the primary use of the property 
(b) They comprise no more than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross floor area of the building. 
(c) Any permissible Accessory Use that comprises greater than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross 
floor area may be allowed by Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals. 
 
(4) Drive Through Service may be allowed by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Com-
mercial and Office/Industrial Park Districts, In the approval of the Special Permit the Planning Board 
shall take the following items into consideration: 
(a) The minimum space available for vehicles to queue on-site shall not be less than ten (10) cars.  
(b) That the drive through service window be located on the side or rear of the building.  
(c) The lane accessing the drive through service window shall not restrict other vehicular access 
around the building. 
 
(5) Outdoor Storage/Display may be allowed by Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals 
with the following conditions.  
(a) All outdoor storage shall be screened as to not be visible from abutting properties and/or the public 
right of way.  
(b) Display may be permitted in areas visible from the public Right -of-Way and neighboring proper-
ties, provided it does not create a nuisance by the introduction of noise, vibration, dust or other physi-
cal or sensory impact on abutting properties.  
 
B. Special Conditions & Design Standards: 
(1) Occupied Lot Area. 
(a) The total area on any lot devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage and display and other paved 
hard surface areas may occupy up to eighty-five (85%) percent of the total lot area.   
(2) Building Location and Utilities. 
(a) The Building front shall face the street on which the lot obtains its frontage, unless the building is 
more than two hundred fifty feet (250 ft.) from the street and is on a private access road. In such in-
stance the building may face the access road.  
(b) If there is more than one building on the site,  
[1] Parking facilities shall be shared to the extent practicable, as determined by the Planning Board; 
[2] The buildings shall be sited with varied setbacks; 
[3] The site shall have sufficient pedestrian access to all public facilities on the site; 
[4] Buildings shall maintain a minimum twenty foot (20’) setback from one another. 
these items shall be reviewed through Site Plan Approval pursuant to the procedures outlined in Sec-
tion 8.4.  
(c) All utilities shall be placed underground. 
(d) Building façades, materials and roof lines shall be reviewed under the Site Plan Approval to en-
sure consistency and compatibility with other structures. 
 
===PAGE 184===
184 
 
(e) Flat roofs that are visible from the street level are prohibited unless an the façade includes design 
elements and/or material compositions that produce an architectural variation in the horizontal and 
vertical planes.    
(f) The principal building(s) shall be connected to public water and sewer where available and accessi-
ble. 
(g) LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design).  
[1] LEED Certification should be encouraged to meet the best practicable level.  
 
(3) Interior Streets, Drives, Walkways and Access.  
 
(a) Site access shall be a divided way (one way in and one way out) where and when appropriate as 
determined under Site Plan Approval (SPA). 
(b) Surfaces shall be pervious when possible and practical, excluding the required parking areas.   
 
(4) Parking and Loading Area. 
 
(a) Parking shall be in the rear or side of building(s) and shall not be visible from the street line when 
practicable.  Parking will be reviewed under Site Plan Approval.  
(b) All loading docks shall be to the side or rear of the building(s) and shall be visually screened from 
the street. 
(c) All paved areas shall be separated from the lot line setbacks by a four (4) foot landscaped area of 
indigenous materials.  
 
(5) Sidewalks. 
 
(a) Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable, and from the parking areas to 
building(s).  
 
(6) Screening.  
 
(a) Screening of the site shall be by a minimum four (4) foot landscaped strip at the rear and side lot 
lines. 
(b) Additional landscaping and screening may be required during the Site Plan Approval or by the 
SPGA.  
(7) Landscaping. 
 
(a) There shall be a minimum four (4) foot landscaped area along the street frontage and along the 
front and side of the principal building(s) and plantings of indigenous materials along the façades of 
the building(s) and between the building(s) if there is more than one principal building on site. 
(b) Such landscape shall be a type and height that does not interfere with sight lines of drivers. 
(c) Natural features shall be retained to the extent practicable in relation to the limitations imposed by 
the surrounding natural features, as determined by the Planning Board. 
(d) A landscape plan shall be provided and reviewed as part of Site Plan Approval per Section 250 -
8.4. 
(8) Street Furniture. 
(a) Light fixtures shall be designed to be of number and height that grants plentiful lighting.  Such 
lighting shall shine downwards as to not affect adjacent properties and shall be Dark Sky Compliant. 
(b) Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building. This lighting shall be provided in 
the form of on building lights to provide minimal adequate lighting for security and safety.  
(c) If provided, outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of a style consistent with the princi-
pal use(s) of the site.  
(d) The location, number and style of trash receptacles shall be reviewed under Site Plan Approval. 
 
 
===PAGE 185===
185 
 
250-4.6 Office Park/Industrial District: 
 
A. Accessory Uses: 
 
(1) Any use allowed by right or special permit within the zoning district provided that  
(a) They are associated with the primary use of the property 
(b) They comprise no more than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross floor area of the building. 
(c) Any permissible Accessory Use that comprises greater than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross 
floor area may be allowed by Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals. 
 
(2) Drive Through Service may be allowed by Special Permit from the Planning Board in the Com-
mercial and Office/Industrial Park Districts, In the approval of the Special Permit the Planning Board 
shall take the following items into consideration: 
(a) The minimum space available for vehicles to queue on-site shall not be less than ten (10) cars.  
(b) That the drive through service window be located on the side or rear of the building.  
(c) The lane accessing the drive through service window shall not restrict other vehicular access 
around the building. 
 
(3) Outdoor Storage/Display may be allowed by Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals 
with the following conditions.  
(a) All outdoor storage shall be screened as to not be visible from abutting properties and/or the public 
right of way.  
(b) Display may be permitted in areas visible from the public Right -of-Way and neighboring proper-
ties, provided it does not create a nuisance by the introduction of noise, vibration, dust or other physi-
cal or sensory impact on abutting properties.  
 
B. Special Conditions & Design Standards: 
 
(1) The plan shall show a buffer strip which shall create a visual screen using landscaping of existing 
natural growth and/or plant material indigenous to the area; 
 
(a) The buffer strip shall be at least fifty (50) feet deep where the District abuts a residential use or 
district. 
(b) The buffer strip shall be at least twenty (20) feet deep at all side and rear property lines, except as 
provided above. 
(2) Unless otherwise approved with the development plan, accessory uses not contained in the princi-
pal building shall be provided with safe access and shall be visually screened from view from a public 
way or shall be in a structure of an architectural style compatible with the principal structure. 
 
(3) Limitations Upon Uses 
(a) In addition to the limitations set forth in Section 5.0. of the Bylaw, all uses within an Office Park 
and Industrial District shall be subject to the following limitations: 
 
[1] The lot coverage of all buildings and structures shall not exceed; 
[2] Fifty (50) percent of the total lot area of a lot used for an office park or office building. 
[3] Seventy (70) percent of the total lot area of a lot used for storage or distribution. 
[4] An amount determined by the Planning Board not to exceed seventy (70) percent of the total lot 
area for any other use. 
(b) The total impervious area shall not exceed; 
[1] Ninety (90) percent of the total lot area of a lot used for an office park or an office building. 
[2] Seventy (70) percent of the total lot area of a lot used for storage or distribution.. 
[3] An amount determined by the Planning Board not to exceed ninety (90) percent of a lot used for 
any other purpose. 
 
===PAGE 186===
186 
 
250-4.7 Village Center District: 
 
A. Special Conditions & Design Standards: 
 
(1) Purpose 
(a) In pursuit of this opportunity and to address this challenge, the Town implements this bylaw and 
designates this zoning district as Village Center District in order to encourage economic and residen-
tial growth that fits the character of the Town. 
(b) The purposes of the Village Center District are to: 
[1] Build upon the historic development patterns in the existing village centers to create attractive, 
walkable neighborhoods; 
[2] Encourage adaptive reuse of abandoned, vacant or underutilized buildings or structures where 
appropriate; 
[3] Allow for a mix of new land uses that are appropriate to both the needs of the community and the 
scale of surrounding neighborhoods; 
[4] Provide incentives to develop larger parcels at higher densities and in a coordinated, planned ap-
proach; 
[5] Maintain a consistently high level of design quality throughout the district; 
[6] Encourage the development of mixed use buildings and campuses that are designed and con-
structed in a manner that is contextually sensitive to the existing structures and facilities.  
 
(2) Authority 
(a) The Planning Board shall act as the administering authority for any Site Plan Approval procedure 
associated with this bylaw Section 8.4. The Board of Appeals shall serve as the Special Permit 
Granting Authority for any use that requires a Special Permit in the district, any use requiring a Spe-
cial Permit pursuant to Section 4.17.5. 
 
(3) Special Permit Approval Criteria – The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act upon all applications 
after notice and public hearing, and after due consideration may grant such a special permit provided 
that it finds the proposed use: 
(a) Is in harmony with the purpose and intent of the Bylaw and will promote the purposes of the Vil-
lage Center District. 
(b) The use is in harmony with those of the abutting properties and the Village Center District as a 
whole.  
(c) All applicable standards for use, parking, and dimensional requirements are met; 
(d) All applicable design standards listed in Section 8 are met. 
(e) Where multiple structures are proposed, the site design reflects a thoughtful arrangement of ele-
ments that will facilitate the movement of pedestrians between structures through the use of side-
walks, internal walkways, alleys or open space features. 
 
(4) The following uses are prohibited in the Village Center District 
(a) Newly constructed one-story buildings on lots of less than 5 acres.  
(b) Retail operations with more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross floor area on any in-
dividual floor, except for reuse of buildings existing prior to 1 May 2015. 
(c) Drive through establishments, excluding those expressly allowed by Special Permit. 
 
(5) Dimensional requirements. 
(a) Requirements. 
===PAGE 187===
187 
 
(b) Height limitations for nonresidential and mixed use. Building height for mixed use or non-
residential use shall not exceed 38 feet and no building shall have more than three stories.  
(6) Parking Requirements 
  Building Type 
  
Mixed Use with Commercial First 
Floor 
Other Mixed Use or Residential 
Only 
 Maximum floor area ratio 
(FAR) (gross floor area/lot 
size) 
2.0 1.5 
 Minimum lot frontage 75 feet 
 Maximum lot coverage 85% 
 Minimum lot area N/A 
 Number of buildings per lot See Subsection I 
 Maximum building frontage 300 feet 
 Minimum front setback 5 feet 
 Maximum front setback w/o 
street furniture 
15 feet 
 Minimum side/rear setback 
abutting a residential zone 
10 feet 
 Minimum side/rear setback in 
VCD 
5 feet 
 Interior setback (between 
buildings on the same lot) 
10 feet 
 
===PAGE 188===
188 
 
 Use Parking Requirement 
 Retail/personal service/liquor store 1 parking space per 400 square feet of net floor 
area, plus 1 space per employee on the largest shift 
 Professional office/civic uses 1 parking space per 300 square feet of net floor area 
 Artists space 1 parking space per 400 square feet of net 
retail/gallery floor area, plus 2 parking spaces per 
dwelling unit 
 Restaurant/private club 1 parking space per 4 seats, plus 1 space for each 
employee on the largest shift 
 Bed-and-breakfast 1 par king space per accommodation room, plus 2 
parking spaces for the primary residence, plus 1 
space per nonresident employee on the largest shift 
 Mixed use/multiple commercial Parking to be provided per the individual uses 
 All residential uses 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit 
 Movie house 1 parking space per 4 occupants, plus 1 parking 
space per 2 employees on the largest shift 
 Outdoor market 1 parking space per 500 square feet of sales space 
 
(a) As part of a Site Plan Approval or special permit process within this district, the applicant may 
request reductions to minimum requirements or alternative methods for meeting the required 
parking.  
(b) Available innovative parking strategies include: 
[1] Shared On-Site Parking 
[a] Non-competing Uses. In mixed-use developments, applicants may propose a reduction in parking 
requirements based on an analysis of peak demands for noncompeting uses. Up to 50% of the re-
quirements for the predominant use may be waived by the Planning Board or the Board of Ap-
peals if the applicant can demonstrate that the peak demands for two uses do not overlap. An addi-
tional 25% may be waived with the addition of bicycle parking facilities.  
 
[1] Off-Site Parking: Separate from, or in conjunction with Shared Parking provisions, an applicant 
may use off -site parking to satisfy their parking requirements in accordance with the following 
conditions: 
[a] Off-site parking shall be within one -thousand (1000) feet of the property for which it is being re-
quested. 
===PAGE 189===
189 
 
[b] Off-site parking spaces provided by a separate private property owner shall be subject to a legally 
binding agreement that will be presented to the Permit Granting Authority as a condition of either the 
Development Plan Review or the Special Permit. Where an agreement shall expire within a specified 
timeline, the applicant or current property owner shall continue to provide evidence to the Zoning 
Enforcement Officer that the agreement has been extended. The Permit Granting Authority will verify 
with the Zoning Enforcement Officer that there are no existing parking agreements during the permit-
ting process. 
 
(7) Design Standards:  The Design Standards in this section shall be applied to development within 
the Village Center District where applicable. 
(a) Occupied Lot Area:  The total lot devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage and display and 
other paved hard surfaces may occupy up to eighty-five (85%) percent of the total lot area. 
(b) Buildings. 
[1] All buildings shall have a principal façade and entry (with operable doors) facing a street or open 
space. Buildings may have more than one principal façade and/or entry. 
[2] Building finish materials shall be appropriate to traditional New England architecture. 
[3] Building facades, materials and roof lines shall be reviewed under the Permit Granting Authority 
to ensure consistency and compatibility with other structures. 
[4] Blank walls adjacent to streets, alleys or open spaces shall not be permitted. Where windows are 
not possible or appropriate to the intended use, vertical articulation in the form of raised or recessed 
surfaces shall be used to break up blank walls. 
[5] New retail buildings shall have one of the following features along the front entrances to pedestri-
ans: awning, marquee, arcade and/ or colonnade. 
[6] Flat roofs that are visible from the street are prohibited unless an appropriate façade is included in 
the design. 
[7] Larger buildings with multiple non -residential tenants on the first floor shall articulate the façade 
in a manner that distinguishes the location of these tenants through the use of decorative raised or de-
pressed vertical surfaces, variations of acceptable signage, awnings, marquees, colonnades or arcades. 
[8] Mixed Use buildings shall have no more than twenty five (25%) percent of the first floor dedicat-
ed to residential use. Conversion or partial conversion of residential uses existing before 1 May 2015 
are exempt from this provision.  
[9] All new utility service connections shall be placed underground. 
[10] Lighting, signage and architectural style shall be consistent with other uses in the District and 
reviewed under the Permit Granting Authority. 
 
(c) Signs. 
[1] Primary signs shall be flat against the façade, or mounted projecting from the façade. 
[2] Signs that project from buildings shall have at least ten (10) feet of clearance from the ground lev-
el. 
[3] Signs shall be externally lit from the front; lighting shall be provided using a gooseneck fixture. 
Back lighting of signs shall not be used. 
[4] Neon, flashing signs, moving signs, electric message signs, and roof signs shall not be used, ex-
cept for barber poles. 
[5] Banners with a specific date of expiration, shall be allowed, after approval by the Zoning Enforce-
ment Officer. 
[6] Signs shall be made of attractive materials consistent with the character of the district. Materials 
may include wood (painted or natural), stone, copper, brass, galvanized steel, painted canvas or paint/
engraved on façade surface. 
[7] Signs may only be incorporated into the skirt of awnings and not on the primary angled surface.  
[8] Each building façade facing a street or parking area is permitted to have signs that equal a maxi-
mum square footage of five (5%) percent of the respective façade. 
[9] Sandwich board signs, flags and other portable signs are permitted only within the property lines, 
as long as they are properly weighted. 
===PAGE 190===
190 
 
[11] Window signs, comprising no more than ten (10%) percent of the transparent surface, shall be 
allowed. Window signs shall not be lighted or animated in any manner, with the exception of the 
standard lighting fixtures within the building.   
 
(d) Site Design. 
[1] Interior Streets, Drives, Walkways and Access. 
[a] Site access shall be a divided way (one way in and one way out) where and when appropriate as 
determined by the Permit Granting Authority. 
[b] Surfaces shall be pervious when possible and practical. 
[c] Street level frontage shall be devoted to entrances, shop windows or other displays. 
[d] Primary entrances to proposed and existing buildings shall be situated on pedestrian amenities 
(e.g., sidewalks, plazas or open space) with a minimum width of 10 feet. 
[e] Setbacks shall be consistent with the fabric of the existing street and do not preclude pedestrian 
access. 
 
(e) Parking and Loading Area. 
[1] Parking shall be in the rear or side of building(s) and shall not be visible from the street line when 
possible. Parking will be reviewed by the Permit Granting Authority. 
[2] All loading docks shall be to the rear of the building(s) and shall not be visible from the street. Ad-
equate access for loading and emergency vehicles is maintained on one side of the building. 
(f) Sidewalks. 
[1] Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable, and from the parking areas to 
building(s). 
(g) Landscaping. 
[1] There shall be a minimum of a four (4) foot landscaped area along the street frontage and along the 
front and side of the principal building(s) and plantings of indigenous materials along the façades of 
the building(s) and between the building(s) if there is more than one principal building on site. 
[2] Additional landscaping and screening may be required during the Development Plan Review or by 
the permitting authority. 
[3] Such landscape shall be a type and height that does not interfere with sight lines of drivers. 
[4]  Natural features shall be retained to the extent possible. 
[5] A landscape plan shall be provided and reviewed. 
[6] Where residential neighborhoods abut commercial, office or mixed use developments, appropriate 
transitional features shall be used and may include landscaping, open space or parks, or streets with 
clearly designed pedestrian features. 
 
(h) Street Furniture. 
[1] Light fixtures shall be designed to be of number and height that grants plentiful lighting. Such 
lighting shall shine downwards as to not affect adjacent properties and be dark sky compliant. 
[2] Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building. 
[3] A Lighting Plan may be required if the Permitting Granting Authority deems the project is of such 
a scale that the impacts to the neighborhood are adverse; such plan will show where all light fixtures 
are being proposed within the site, as well as a narrative as to the type of light and height of all fix-
tures.  
[4] Outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of a style consistent with the principal use(s) of 
the site. 
[5] The location, number and style of trash receptacles shall be reviewed under Permit Granting Au-
thority. 
 
(8) Village Center District Campus Developments 
 
 
 
===PAGE 191===
191 
 
Developments that contain multiple buildings and uses on a single lot are encouraged as long as they 
are sensitive to the context of the surrounding area and meet the purposes outlined above. These de-
velopments are subject to the provisions of Section 8.4 Development Plan Review of the Protective 
Bylaw as well as the additional design guidelines outlined in Section 4.17.8. of this Bylaw and be-
low.  
 
Additional Design Standards: In addition to those design standards listed in Section 4.17.8. of this 
bylaw, applications for a Village Center District Campus shall also meet the following standards: 
 
(a) Buildings 
 
[1] Newly constructed building façades for non -residential first floor uses shall have a transparency 
of at least thirty five (35%) percent and no more than sixty (60%) percent for all facades that, wholly 
or partially, address street frontage, sidewalks, or other public space.  
 
[2] Buildings in Village Center District Campus Developments shall meet the following criteria: 
[3] No more than ten (10%) percent of the first floor of newly constructed buildings shall be occu-
pied by residential use. 
[4] No more than sixty (60%) percent of the total gross floor area of the development shall be occu-
pied by residential use.  
 
(b) Signs 
 
[1] Freestanding directory signs may be permitted as part of a Village Center District Campus appli-
cation where several non -residential operations are accessed through a common vehicular en-
trance. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height, six (6) feet in width and 
each tenant shall be allowed a maximum of four and a half (4.5) square feet to display the com-
pany or agency name. 
 
(c) Site Design  
 
[1] Buildings shall be arranged in a manner that optimizes the ability of residents and consumers to 
access public spaces and pedestrian amenities. 
[2] Buildings shall be oriented toward each other in a way that minimizes conflicts between pedestri-
ans and automobiles. 
[3] Open space provided pursuant to Section 4.17.9.b. of this bylaw shall be designed as a public 
gathering place. Arcades, courtyards, parks, greens or other common areas shall be located in a man-
ner that connects buildings to each other and to public sidewalks without interruption from parking 
areas or automobile travel lanes to the greatest practicable extent. 
[4] Features that may be used to create open space areas acceptable to the Planning Board or the 
Board of Appeals may include, without limitation, fixed benches, fixed tables, fountains, pathways, 
bikeways, bicycle racks, period lighting, shade trees, perennial gardens, picnic areas, and/or trash 
receptacles.  §250-4.2  through 4.7 and 4.17 have been replaced.  
 
 
===PAGE 192===
192 
 
ARTICLE 32.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, § 
4.9-4.14, which are Sections of the Protective Bylaw, regarding the use provisions of the Water Sup-
ply Protection District, Route 2A Overlay District, Lake Whalom Overlay District, Tri -Town Smart 
Growth District and Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District, as shown on a document entitled 
“Overlay Districts, ” dated April 10, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions 
stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of 
Selectmen, and Planning Board ; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning 
Board) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval and Finance Committee – no direct financial im-
pact) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, § 4.9-4.14, which 
are Sections of the Protective Bylaw, regarding the use provisions of the Water Supply Protec-
tion District, Route 2A Overlay District, Lake Whalom Overlay District, Tri -Town Smart 
Growth District and Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District, as shown on a document 
entitled “Overlay Districts,” dated April 10, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and 
deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the office of the Town 
Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board. 
  
OVERLAY DISTICTS 
10 April 2018 
 
§ 250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District.  
A. Purpose. The purpose of the Water Supply Protection District is to promote the health, safety 
and general welfare of the community; to protect, preserve and maintain present and potential 
sources of water supply and watershed areas for the public health and safety; to protect, pre-
serve and maintain the existing and potential groundwater supply and groundwater recharge 
areas within the Town for public health and safety; to preserve and protect the lakes, ponds, 
streams, brooks, rills, marshes, swamps, bogs and other water bodies and watercourses in 
Town; to protect the community from the detrimental use and development of land and water 
within the district; to conserve the natural resources of the Town; to preserve and maintain 
the groundwater table and water recharge areas within the Town; and to prevent blight and 
the pollution of the environment.  
 
B.  District delineation.  
 
(1) The boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District shall be as follows: Zone I, Zone II, 
and Zone III for the Town of Lunenburg, approved by the Department of Environmental Pro-
tection (DEP) according to Map 1, entitled "Water Protection District, revised October, 
2009."  
(2) Where the bounds as delineated are in doubt or in dispute, the burden of proof that the use is 
outside the Water Supply Protection District or does not impact the district shall be upon the 
owner(s) of the land in question. However, the Building Commissioner retains its authority to 
determine final location with regard to said Water Supply Protection District.  
(3) At the written request of the owner(s) of the property in question, the Town may engage a 
professional geologist, a certified soil scientist or a registered professional engineer trained in 
hydrology to determine the location and extent of a protection area on the parcel in question 
and charge the owner(s) of said parcel for the cost of the investigation.  
 
C. Use regulations.  
(1) The Water Supply Protection District is established as an overlay district to all other districts. 
Land in the Water Supply Protection District shall be subject to the requirements of this sec-
tion, as well as to all other requirements of this Zoning Bylaw which apply to the underlying 
zoning districts. Uses that are not permitted in the underlying district shall not be permitted in 
the Water Supply Protection Districts.  
===PAGE 193===
193 
 
(2) Uses permissible in the Restricted Area Zone I by special permit granted by the Planning 
Board. Irrespective of the permitted uses in the underlying district, only the following uses 
are permitted within the Restricted Area Zone I of the Water Supply Protection District, sub-
ject to the granting of a special permit by the Planning Board, provided that all necessary 
permits, orders or approvals required by local, state or federal law are also obtained, and ex-
cept as limited by the Conservation Commission and/or Lunenburg Water District as out-
lined in Guidelines and Policies for Public Water Systems, Department of Environmental 
Quality Engineering, Division of Water Supply, Revised May 1, 1991, as amended:  
 
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
(c) Duckwalks Raised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and oth-
er water 2 control, supply and conservation devices. 
     Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing as provided under 
MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure, hazardous mate-
rials, liquid petroleum products, and other leachable materials are stored within an enclosed 
structure and used in a manner that will not permit groundwater contamination.  
 (e) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provision of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 15% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
 
(3)Uses permissible in Zone II by special permit granted by the Planning Board. Irrespective of 
the permitted uses in the underlying district, only the following uses are permitted within 
Zone II of the Water Supply Protection District, subject to the granting of a special permit by 
the Planning Board, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals required by lo-
cal, state or federal law are also obtained and except as limited by the Conservation Commis-
sion and/or Lunenburg Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies for Public Water 
Systems, Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water Supply, Re-
vised May 1, 1991:  
 (a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife. 
       Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
 (b) DuckwalksRaised wooden walkway, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
 (c) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and 
other water control, supply and conservation devices.  
 (d) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing as provided un-
der MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure, hazardous 
materials, liquid petroleum products and other leachable materials are stored within an en-
closed structure and used in a manner that will not permit groundwater contamination. 
(e) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provision of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 20% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
(f) Detached one-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and subject to the pro-
visions of the underlying district, provided that no more than 20% of the required lot area is 
covered with impervious surfaces.  
(g) New detached two-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and if located on a 
lot having an area at least 1 1/2 times that required by § 250-5.1, and provided that no more 
than 20% of the required lot area is covered with impervious surfaces. 
       Maintenance and repair of an existing structure, provided that there is not an increase in im-
pervious surfaces. 
       Public utilities and facilities, provided that no adverse impact on surface water or groundwa-
ter will occur.  
 
===PAGE 194===
194 
 
 
(4) Permitted uses: Zone III. The following uses are permitted within Zone III of the Water Sup-
ply Protection District, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals required by 
local, state or federal law are also obtained and except as limited by the Conservation Com-
mission and/or Lunenburg Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies for Public 
Water Systems, 3 Department of Environ mental Quality Engineering, Division of Water 
Supply, Revised May 1, 1991, as amended:  
        
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
       Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
 (b) DuckwalksRaised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
 (c) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and oth-
er water control, supply and conservation devices.  
 (d) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing provided under 
MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure and other leacha-
ble materials are stored within an enclosed structure and used in a manner that will not permit 
groundwater contamination.  
  (e) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provisions of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 20% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
  (f) Detached one-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and subject to the pro-
visions of    
       the underlying district. 
       New detached two-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district.  
  (g) Maintenance and repair of an existing structure, provided that there is no increase in imper-
vious surfaces.  
   (h) Public utilities and facilities, provided that no adverse impact on surface water or groundwa-
ter will occur.  
   (i) The application of pesticides for nondomestic or agricultural uses, provided that all neces-
sary precautions shall be taken to prevent hazardous concentrations of pesticides in the water 
and on the land within the Water Supply Protection District as a result of such application. 
Such precautions include, but are not limited to, erosion control techniques, the control of 
runoff water or the use of pesticides having low solubility in water, the prevention of volati-
lization and redeposition of pesticides and the lateral displacement of pesticides.  
   (j) The application of fertilizers for nondomestic or agricultural uses, provided that such appli-
cation shall be made in such a manner as to minimize adverse impacts on surface water and 
groundwater due to nutrient transport and deposition and sedimentation.  
   (k) Planned residential development, subject to development plan approval and provided that no 
more than 15% of the required lot area is covered with impervious surfaces. 
   (l) Those commercial and industrial activities permitted in the underlying district, subject to     
        development plan approval to prevent adverse impact on the environment.  
 
(5) Uses prohibited in the Water Supply Protection District:  
(a) Storage of road salt or deicing chemicals;  
(b) Chemical and bacteriological laboratories; 4 (c) Industrial uses which discharge process wa-
ter, including any commercial or service uses discharging wastewater;  
(c) Storage of petroleum or other refined petroleum product except within buildings which will be 
heated by the petroleum or other refined petroleum product; however, nothing in this section 
shall prevent the owner of a tank or tanks existing at the time of adoption of this section to 
replace said tanks, provided there is no increase in capacity;  
(d) Any other use which involves the manufacture, use, storage, transportation or disposal of tox-
ic or hazardous materials or generates, treats, stores or disposes of hazardous materials as 
defined in Article II in quantity exceeding 250 total gallons of liquid material(s) or 2,000 total 
pounds of solid material(s) at any one time.  
===PAGE 195===
195 
 
(6) Uses prohibited in Zone I and Zone II. The following uses are prohibited in Zone I and Zone II:  
 
(a) Public or private sanitary landfills, including the deposition of any foreign or nonindigenous 
material upon the land except for normal and accepted agricultural;  
(b) Junkyards or recycling facilities;  
(c) Sewage treatment facilities;  
(d) Commercial car washes;  
(e) Dry-cleaning establishments;  
(f) Metal plating or metal finishing; 
     Use of chemicals for deicing unless deemed necessary for public safety by the Board of Select-
men;  
(g) The use of septic system cleaners which contain toxic organic chemicals;  
(h) The rendering impervious of more than 15% of a required lot area;  
(i) The disposal of liquid or leachable wastes, except subsurface domestic waste disposal systems;  
(j) Dumping of snow brought in from outside the district;  
(k) The alteration of any natural site features or topography, including but not limited to the cutting 
or removal of trees or other natural vegetation or the dumping, filling, excavation, grading, 
transferring or removing of any gravel, sand, loam or other soft material, rock or ledge prior to 
obtaining all permits and approvals for final development plans required by this bylaw;  
(l) Any use determined by the Planning Board to be detrimental to the purposes of this section of 
the bylaw;  
(m) Mining of land except as incidental to a permitted use, subject to a special permit granted by 
the Board of Selectmen.  
 
D. Conditions for use.  
 
(1) Each application for a special permit in the Water Supply Protection District shall be accompa-
nied by five copies of a plan conform to the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site 
Plan Approval and Special Permits, as amended . The plan is to be prepared by an architect, 
landscape architect, professional engineer or land surveyor, registered in the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts. Said plan 5 shall be drawn at a suitable scale on sheets no large than 24 
inches by 36 inches. When more than one sheet is required, a key sheet shall be provided. Un-
less a specific item(s) is waived by the Planning Board as the special permit granting authority, 
upon the written request of the applicant at the time of filing,  In addition to the submission 
requirements of the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special 
Permits the plan submission following items shall also be included, at a minimum, the follow-
ing:  
  (a) A plot plan showing  
[1] Location of wetlands, streams, water bodies, and floodplain;  
[2] Existing drainage patterns, including direction of surface flow ,and if required, subsurface 
flow 
       [3] Existing soils;  
       [4] Soil boring locations and results; 
       [5] Existing woodlands;  
       [6] Areas having slopes exceeding 15%;  
       [7] Areas to be disturbed by construction;  
       [8] Areas where earth and other material subject to erosion will be temporarily stockpiled;  
       [9] Areas to be used for disposal or storage of construction debris, stones, stumps, etc. if within the  
            district;  
      [10] Temporary and permanent erosion control measures planned, such as sediment basins, storm    
             waste basins, diversions, rip-rap, stabilization seedings, etc.;  
      [11] Temporary work roads to be used during projects;  
      [12] Locations and size of septic systems;  
      [13] Method to contain spillage in fuel filling areas; 
===PAGE 196===
196 
 
 
(b.) A storm drainage plan showing:  
 
[1] Locations of drains and culverts and names of streams, rivers, ponds or reservoirs in the Town into 
which they flow;  
[2] Discharge peaks and expected velocities at drain or culvert outlets;  
[3] Conditions above and below outlets and expected flow vehicles;  
[4] Supporting computation for the above;  
 
(c) A grading plan showing existing topography and planned grade along existing and/or proposed 
street or highway profiles;  
(d) A siltation and sedimentation control plan, including:  
 
[1] Sedimentation and erosion control structures such as diversions, waterways, slope stabilization 
structures and sediment basins, in sufficient detail to implement their installation together with 6 re-
ferred standards for soil erosion and sedimentation as appropriate and design calculations as required 
for each structure;  
[2] Seeding and/or sodding requirements for all exposed areas, including seedbed preparation, seed 
mixtures, lime, fertilizer and mulching requirements with referenced standards;  
[3] Schedule or sequence of operation with starting dates for clearing and/or grading, timing for storm 
drain and culvert installations, both temporary and permanent, indicated dates when critical area stabili-
zation, paving, seeding, mulching and/or sodding is to be completed;  
[4] General notes for sediment control that spell out the procedures for implementing the plan. 
 
(e) A complete list of all chemicals, pesticides, fuels and other potentially toxic or hazardous mate-
rials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated with normal 
household use, accompanied by description of measures proposed to protect such materials 
from vandalism, corrosion and leakage and to provide for control of spills;  
(f) A description of potentially toxic or hazardous wastes to be generated, indicating storage and 
disposal methods;  
(g) Evidence of approval by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering 
(DEQE) of any industrial water treatment or disposal systems;  
(h) For underground storage of toxic or hazardous materials, evidence of qualified professional su-
pervision of system design, installation and operation;  
(i) Analysis by a professional engineer in sanitary or civil engineering registered in the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts certifying compliance with Subsection E below 
(2) The Planning Board shall transmit one copy of the plan to the Board of Health and one copy to 
the Conservation Commission, one copy to the Fire Department and one copy to the local water 
purveyor for review and comment. The Board of Health and the Conservation Commission 
shall submit a written report to the Planning Board within 14 days.  
(3) Said plan submission shall be submitted to the Planning Board at a regularly scheduled meeting 
of the Planning Board. 
(a) In case of a use not requiring a special permit, the Planning Board, within 45 days of the receipt 
thereof, shall submit a report to the Building Commissioner. Said report shall summarize the 
Board's findings with regard to the compliance of the plan with the provisions of the Zoning 
Bylaw and any recommendations of the Board to ensure that:  
[1] The proposed use shall comply in all respects with the provisions of the underlying district and will 
promote the purposes of the Water Supply Protection District; and  
[2] The proposed use is appropriate to the natural topography, soils and other characteristics of the site 
to be developed; and  
[3] The proposed use will not, during construction or thereafter, have an adverse environmental impact 
on the aquifer or recharge area; and  
[4] The proposed use will not result in the deterioration of existing groundwater or surface water quali-
ty, whether or not such water meets established state or federal standards; and  
===PAGE 197===
197 
 
[5] The proposed use complies with the provisions of § 250-8.3C(2). 7 (b) The Board may specify 
such additional requirements and conditions it finds necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare 
of the public and the occupants of the proposed use.  
 
(b) The Building Commissioner shall not issue a permit until the report of the Planning Board, or 
more than 45 days shall have elapsed from the time of submittal to the Planning Board with-
out receipt of such report, has been submitted to the Building Commissioner.  
 
E. Limitations upon uses. In addition to the limitations set forth in Article V of this bylaw, all uses 
within the Water Supply Protection District, except for single -family dwelling lots on plans 
not requiring Planning Board approval, shall be subject to the following limitations: 
  
(1) Safeguards. Provision shall be made to protect against toxic or hazardous materials discharged 
or lost through corrosion, accidental damage, spillage or vandalism through such measures as 
provision for spill control in the vicinity of chemical or fuel delivery points, secure storage 
areas for toxic or hazardous materials and indoor storage provisions for corrosive or dissolva-
ble materials.  
(2) Location. Where the premises are partially outside of the Water Supply Protection District, 
such potential pollution sources as on-site waste disposal systems shall, to the degree feasible, 
be located outside the district.  
(3) Disposal. For any toxic or hazardous waste to be produced in quantities greater than those as-
sociated with normal household use, the applicant must demonstrate the availability and feasi-
bility of disposal methods which are in conformance with Chapter 21C of the Massachusetts 
General Laws and all other applicable laws and regulations.  
(4) Drainage. All runoff from impervious surfaces shall be recharged on the site, diverted towards 
areas covered with vegetation for surface infiltration to the extent possible. Dry wells shall be 
used only where other methods are infeasible and shall be preceded by oil, grease and sedi-
ment traps to facilitate removal of contamination. 
(5) Monitor test wells. Where fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides or other potential contaminants are 
to be applied, utilized or stored and in the opinion of the Planning Board are a matter of con-
cern, a groundwater monitoring program shall be established before the special permit is 
granted. Such a program shall adequately monitor the quality of the groundwater leaving the 
site through the use of monitor wells and/or appropriate groundwater sample analyses.  
(6) Natural vegetation. No more than 30% of existing natural vegetation on any lot may be dis-
turbed in an underlying residential district, nor more than 50% of existing natural vegetation 
on any lot may be disturbed in an underlying nonresidential district.  
(7) Technical reference. The technical reference to be used to prepare and review plans is 
"Guidelines for Soil and Water Conservation in Urbanizing Areas of Massachusetts," 1977, 
U.S.D.A. Soil Conservation Service, Amherst, Massachusetts. Specific guidelines to use in-
clude, but are not limited to:  
 
(a) Limit grading to only those areas actively undergoing current construction;  
(b) The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at one time during development;  
(c) Limit the length of time graded areas are exposed;  
(d) Provide temporary or permanent stabilization of disturbed areas at the earliest opportunity. 
Limit exposure to less than 60 days;  
(e) Retain and protect as much of the natural vegetation as possible; 
(f) Permanent improvements such as streets, utilities, storm sewer, vegetated waterways and other 
features of the development should be scheduled for installation to the greatest extent possible 
before removing the vegetative cover from an area scheduled for building construction;  
(g) Protect all fill slopes and cut slopes exceeding five feet in height from storm run -off through 
the use of diversion berms, drop chutes or other acceptable means; 
(h) Rough-graded rights-of-way awaiting installation of utilities and/or pavement should be pro-
tected by the installation of interceptor berms across the right -of-way so as to reduce the 
===PAGE 198===
198 
 
      length of slope between berms to not more than 250 feet;  
(i) On sites where the above procedures are impractical or not acceptable, where the topography 
permits, install sediment basins, desilting basins or silt traps to remove sediment from runoff 
waters.  
 
(8) Non-point source pesticide contamination. All pesticide use in Zone II shall comply with the 
provisions 333 CMR 12.00.  
 
§ 250-4.10 Route 2A Overlay District.  
A. Purpose. The purposes of the Route 2A Overlay District are to improve the safety for pedestrians and 
vehicular traffic, to protect natural features, to improve the appearance of the commercial area, to en-
courage sound economic development, to reduce conflicting or abrasive site treatment to increase prop-
erty values and employment opportunities, and to create a more commercial-friendly environment.  
B. Permitted uses. All uses of the underlying district are permitted.  
C. Condition of use.  
(1) When considering a development plan, application for special permit, or subdivision plan for any 
use in the Route 2A Overlay District, the Planning Board shall consider all information submitted in 
accordance with § 250-8.4 of this bylaw, the Town of Lunenburg Rules and Regulations Governing the 
Subdivision of Land, the Planning Board Rules and Regulations Governing Off -Street Parking and 
Loading Design, Construction and Maintenance, and other rules and regulations adopted by the Plan-
ning Board for applications submitted within this overlay district, relative to landscaping, signage, light-
ing, safety, pavement treatment, underground wires, bikeways and sidewalks, streets, pedestrian cross-
ings and amenities, curb cuts, impervious surfaces, buffers, architectural compatibility, historic build-
ings, street furniture, coordinate development, office parks and retail villages.  
Comment [1]: Editor's Note: See Ch. 325, Subdivision Regulations.  
(2) In addition to the requirements of § 250-8.4, the Planning Board shall consider the following:  
(a) The arrangements of access points, service roads, driveways, parking areas, loading areas, lighting, 
and pedestrian walkways in a manner which facilitates interior circulation, minimizes conflict between 
vehicles and pedestrians, provides for coordination with adjacent streets, properties and improvements 
and which minimizes strip development.  
(b) Ease of access, travel and on -site movements for fire and police equipment and other emergency 
services for public safety.  
(c) The siting of buildings, structures, and open spaces to permit maximum use of passive solar energy 
and to permit maximum protection of pedestrian areas from adverse impacts of winds, vapors or other 
emissions, shadows and/or noise.  
(d) Conformance to design guidelines adopted by the Planning Board for the Route 2A Overlay District. 
9 (3) The Planning Board may require the following:  
(a) Provisions for maintenance of common areas.  
(b) Measures proposed to mitigate impacts of development, to include, but not be limited to, construc-
tion of sidewalks, service roads and turning lanes.  
(c) Shared access to reduce curb cuts.  
(d) A completion date.  
§ 250-4.12 10 Lake Whalom Overlay District.  
    A. Purpose. The purpose of the Lake Whalom Overlay District is to provide for the coordi-
nated development of the former amusement park area and its adjacent area in a manner which 
will protect the historic features of the area, provide housing, encourage sound economic devel-
opment, protect the adjacent neighborhood, and respect adjacent natural features and Town 
properties, all with minimum environmental and traffic impacts.  
B. Location. The Lake Whalom Overlay District includes the area bounded as follows: by the pre-
sent Commercial District boundary line on the west from the Leominster City line to the center 
line of Whalom Road, easterly along the center line of Whalom Road, continuing along the cen-
ter line of Pond Street to Kimball Street, southeasterly along the center line of Kimball Street to 
the center line of Prospect Street, westerly along a line extending straight across Prospect Street 
to the shoreline of Whalom Lake, southwesterly along the shoreline of Whalom Lake to the  
===PAGE 199===
199 
 
      Commercial District boundary line, southerly along the Commercial District boundary to the 
Leominster City line to the point of beginning. 
  
C. Permitted uses: all uses of the underlying districts, subject to the restrictions and provisions of 
the underlying district, except for those uses permitted by §§ 250-4.2C(1)(a) and 250-4.6C(1)
(j), (l) and (n).  
 
D. Uses permissible by special permit granted by the Planning Board:  
(1) Townhouses and garden apartments flats.  
(2) Recreation facilities, limited to lakefront facilities, including a club house, beach, tennis, bad-
minton, bocce, shuffleboard, gardens, outdoor seating and similar uses.  
(3) Restaurants.  
 
E. Conditions of use.  
 
(1) All uses are subject to the applicable provisions of Section 250-8.4 
(2) he dimensional requirements of Section 250 -5.0. can be modified by the Planning Board in 
connection with a Special Permit or a Site Plan Approval, if  
 
(a) the use or uses are connected to municipal sewer and  
(b) at least ten (10) percent of the residential portion, if any, is limited in perpetuity to occupancy 
by persons fifty-five(55) years or more of age or qualifying for affordable units as defined by 
the Commonwealth.  
(3) The maximum density shall be determined by the Planning Board so as not to conflict with the 
surrounding properties and intended use, but shall not be more than eight (8) units per acre.  
(4) If density exceeds the underlying zone, there shall not be more than two (2) bedrooms per unit. 
(5) Consideration shall be given to preserving some of the previous character of the area as an 
amusement park, such assigning or markers, maintaining a feature of the park or other historic 
structures.  
(6) Development of uses permitted by Section 4.12.3. shall be completed within three (3) years 
from the date of approval of the special permit, unless otherwise approved by the Planning 
Board.  
 
All uses are subject to the applicable provisions of § 250-8.4.  
(2) The dimensional requirements of Article V can be modified by the Planning Board in connection 
with a special permit or a development plan review, if a) the development plan is for more than 10 
acres, and b) the use or uses are connected to municipal sewer and c) at least 10% of the residential 
portion, if any, is limited in perpetuity to occupancy by persons 55 years or more of age or qualifying 
for affordable units as defined by the commonwealth; and provided that a) the density shall not be 
more than eight units per acre, and b) there shall not be more than two bedrooms per unit.  
(3) Consideration shall be given to preserving some of the previous character of the area as an amuse-
ment park, such as signing or markers, maintaining a feature of the park or other historic structures.  
(4) Development of uses permitted by Subsection C shall be completed within three years from the 
date of approval of the special permit, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Board.  
 
§ 250-4.13 11 Tri-Town Smart Growth District.  
 
A. Purpose and authority. The purposes of the Tri-Town Smart Growth District are to encourage smart 
growth in accordance with the purposes stated in MGL Chapter 40R and to encourage a range of hous-
ing types and opportunities which are appropriate in Lunenburg. The objectives include:  
(1) To promote the public health, safety and welfare by encouraging a diversity of housing opportuni-
ties. 
2) To provide a range of housing choices for households of varying size, incomes and ages and in-
crease the production of housing to meet existing and anticipated need.  
===PAGE 200===
200 
 
(3) To establish requirements, standards and guidelines which will ensure suitable and cost -effective 
development and a clear, predictable and efficient development review and permitting process.  
(4) To enable the Town to receive zoning incentive and density bonus payments under MGL Chapter 
40R and Chapter 40S.  
 
B. Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms shall be 
defined in accordance with the definitions established under the enabling laws or this section, or as set 
forth in the rules and regulations of the permit approval authority ("regulations"), if any. To the extent 
that there is any conflict between the definitions set forth is this section or the regulations and the ena-
bling laws, the terms of the enabling laws shall govern.  
 
ACCESSORY USE  
An accessory use shall be customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, provided that there is no 
exterior display and that there are no products sold on the premises and no customers or clients coming 
to the premises.  
AFFORDABLE HOMEOWNERSHIP UNIT  
An affordable housing unit required to be sold to an eligible household.  
AFFORDABLE HOUSING  
Housing that is affordable to and occupied by eligible households.  
AFFORDABLE HOUSING RESTRICTION  
A deed restriction of affordable housing meeting statutory requirements in MGL c. 184, § 31 and the 
requirements of Subsection G(5) of this bylaw.  
AFFORDABLE RENTAL UNIT  
An affordable housing unit required to be rented to an eligible household.  
AS-OF-RIGHT PROJECT or PROJECT  
A development of housing under zoning without recourse to a special permit, variance, zoning amend-
ment, or other form of zoning relief. A project that requires approval pursuant to this section shall be 
considered an as-of-right project.  
ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD  
An individual or household whose annual income is less than 80% of the area -wide median income as 
determined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), adjusted for 
household size, with income computed using HUD's rules for attribution of income to assets.  
ENABLING LAWS  
MGL Chapter 40R and 760 CMR 59.00.  
GARDEN APARTMENT  
A multifamily residential building of not more than three floors.  
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE  
Apartment or condominium units in one or more buildings that contain or will contain more than three 
dwelling units.  
PLAN APPROVAL  
Standards and criteria which a project in the Tri-Town Smart Growth District must meet under the pro-
cedures established herein and in the enabling laws.  
PLAN APPROVAL AUTHORITY  
For purposes of reviewing project applications and issuing decisions on development projects within 
the Tri-Town Smart Growth District, the Planning Board, consistent with MGL Chapter 40R and 760 
CMR 59.00, shall be the plan approval authority, and is authorized to approve a site plan to implement 
a project.  
RECREATIONAL USES  
Active recreational uses, including but not limited to ball fields, and passive recreational uses, including 
but not limited to walking and bicycle paths. Amusements or motorized uses shall not be considered 
eligible recreational uses. 
  
C. Overlay district.  
 
===PAGE 201===
201 
 
(1) Establishment. The Tri-Town Smart Growth District is an overlay district having a land area of 
approximately +8.97 acres in size that is superimposed over the underlying zoning district ap-
plicable to a portion of the property shown on the map entitled "Tri -Town Smart Growth Dis-
trict," dated April 10, 2006, being the locus formerly used as the Tri-Town Drive-in Theater on 
Youngs Road and shown on Assessor's Map Number 81, Parcel Number 907. This map is 
hereby made a part of the Zoning Bylaw and is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.  
 
(2) Underlying zoning. The Tri-Town Smart Growth District is an overlay district superimposed on 
all underlying zoning districts. When a building permit is issued for any project approved in 
accordance with this § 250 -4.13, the provisions of the underlying district(s) shall no longer be 
applicable to the land shown on the site plan which was submitted pursuant to Subsection L for 
such project.  
 
D. Applicability of Tri-Town Smart Growth District. In accordance with the provisions of MGL Chap-
ter 40R and 760 CMR 59.00, an applicant for a project located within the Tri-Town Smart Growth Dis-
trict may seek plan approval in accordance with the requirements of this section. In such case, then not-
withstanding anything to the contrary in this Zoning Bylaw, such application shall not be subject to any 
other provisions of this Zoning Bylaw, including limitations upon the issuance of building permits for 
residential uses related to a rate of development or phased growth limitation or to a local moratorium 
on the issuance of such permits, or to building permit or dwelling unit limitations. 
  
E. Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted as of right in the Tri-Town Smart Growth District:  
 
(1) Multifamily residential use, including garden apartments, with a density of 22.03 dwelling units per 
acre.  
(2) Parking, including surface, garage-under, and structured parking (e.g., parking garages).  
(3) Open space and recreational uses.  
(4) Accessory uses customarily incidental to any of the above permitted uses.  
 
F. Project phasing. The Planning Board, as a condition of any plan approval, may require a project 
to be phased for the purpose of coordinating development with the mitigation required to ad-
dress any adverse project impacts on nearby properties. For projects that are approved and de-
veloped in phases, the proportion of affordable units and the proportion of market -rate units 
shall be consistent across all phases.  
 
G. Housing and housing affordability.  
 
(1) Marketing plan. Prior to granting plan approval for a project within the Tri -Town Smart 
Growth District, an applicant for such approval must submit a narrative document and market-
ing plan that establishes that the proposed development of housing is appropriate for diverse 
populations, including households with children, other households, individuals, households 
including individuals with disabilities, and the elderly. Not less than 10% of the residential 
units within a project shall be three -bedroom units. These documents in combination, to be 
submitted with a site plan application pursuant to Subsection L below, shall include details 
about construction related to the provision, within the development, of units that are accessible 
to the disabled.  
(2) Number of affordable housing units. Not less than 25% of housing units constructed in a pro-
ject shall be affordable housing; provided, however, that the Planning Board may consider an 
application where 20% of the units are affordable housing set aside for eligible households. For 
purposes of calculating the number of units of affordable housing required within a project, 
any fractional unit of 13 0.5 or greater shall be deemed to constitute a whole unit.  
(3) Requirements. Affordable housing shall comply with the following requirements:  
 
 
===PAGE 202===
202 
 
(a) For an affordable rental unit, the monthly rent payment, including utilities and parking, shall 
not exceed 30% of the maximum monthly income permissible for an eligible household, as-
suming a family size equal to the number of bedrooms in the unit plus one, unless other af-
fordable program rent limits approved by the DHCD shall apply.  
(b) For an affordable homeownership unit, the monthly housing payment, including mortgage 
principal and interest, private mortgage insurance, property taxes, condominium and/or 
homeowner's association fees, insurance, and parking, shall not exceed 30% of the maximum 
monthly income permissible for an eligible household, assuming a family size equal to the 
number of bedrooms in the unit plus one.  
(c) Affordable housing required to be offered for rent or sale shall be rented or sold to and occu-
pied only by eligible households.  
 
(4) Design and construction. Units of affordable housing shall be finished housing units. Units of af-
fordable housing shall be dispersed throughout the development of which they are part and be compa-
rable in initial construction quality and exterior design to the other housing units in the development. 
The total number of bedrooms in the affordable housing shall be proportionate to the total number of 
bedrooms in all the units in the development of which the affordable housing is part, provided that at 
least 10% of the three-bedroom units within the district shall be affordable housing.  
 
(5) Affordable housing restriction. Each unit of affordable housing shall be subject to an affordable 
housing restriction which is recorded with the appropriate Registry of Deeds or District Registry of 
the Land Court and which contains the following:  
 
(a) Specification of the term of the affordable housing restriction, which shall be in perpetuity;  
(b) The name and address of an administering agency with a designation of its power to monitor 
and enforce the affordable housing restriction;  
(c) A description of the unit of affordable housing by address and number of bedrooms;  
(d) Reference to a housing marketing and resident selection plan, to which the affordable housing 
is subject, and which includes an affirmative fair housing marketing program, including pub-
lic notice and a fair resident selection process. The housing marketing and selection plan may 
provide for preferences in resident selection to the extent consistent with applicable law; the 
plan shall designate the household size appropriate for a unit with respect to bedroom size 
and provide that the preference for such unit shall be given to a household of the appropriate 
size;  
(e) A requirement that buyers or tenants will be selected at the initial sale or initial rental and up-
on all subsequent sales and rentals from a list of eligible households compiled in accordance 
with the housing marketing and selection plan;  
(f) Reference to the formula pursuant to which rent of a rental unit or the maximum resale price 
of a homeownership unit will be set;  
(g) Designation of the priority of the affordable housing restriction over other mortgages and re-
strictions, provided that a first mortgage of a homeownership housing unit to a commercial 
lender in an amount less than the maximum resale price may have priority over the affordable 
housing restriction if required by then current practice of commercial mortgage lenders; 
 (h) A requirement that only an eligible household may reside in affordable  housing and that no-
tice of any lease or sublease of any unit of affordable housing shall be given to the adminis-
tering agency;  
(i) Provision for effective monitoring and enforcement of the terms and provisions of the afforda-
ble housing restriction by the administering agency;  
(j) Provision that the restriction on an affordable homeownership unit shall run in favor of the 
administering agency and the Town of Lunenburg in a form approved by municipal counsel, 
and shall limit initial sale and re-sale to and occupancy by an eligible household;  
(k) Provision that the restriction on an affordable rental unit shall run in favor of the administer-
ing agency and the Town of Lunenburg in a form approved by municipal counsel, and shall 
limit rental and occupancy to an eligible household;  
===PAGE 203===
203 
 
(l) Provision that the owner(s) or manager(s) of affordable rental unit(s) shall file an annual report 
to the administering agency, in a form specified by that agency certifying compliance with the 
affordability provisions of this bylaw and containing such other information as may be reasona-
bly requested in order to ensure affordability;  
(m) A requirement that residents in affordable housing provide such information as the administer-
ing agency may reasonably request in order to ensure affordability. 
  
(6) Administering agency. An administering agency, which may be the Lunenburg Housing Authority 
or other qualified housing entity, shall be designated by the Planning Board. In a case where the admin-
istering agency cannot adequately carry out its administrative duties, such duties shall devolve to and 
thereafter be administered by a qualified housing entity designated by the Planning Board or, in the ab-
sence of such timely designation, by an entity designated by the DHCD. In any event, such agency shall 
ensure the following:  
 
(a) Prices of affordable homeownership units are properly computed; rental amounts of affordable 
rental units are properly computed;  
(b) Income eligibility of households applying for affordable housing is properly and reliably deter-
mined;  
(c) The housing marketing and resident selection plan conforms to all requirements and is properly 
administered;  
(d) Sales and rentals are made to eligible households chosen in accordance with the housing mar-
keting and resident selection plan with appropriate unit size for each household being properly 
determined and proper preference being given;  
(e) Affordable housing restrictions meeting the requirements of this section are recorded with the 
proper Registry of Deeds.  
 
(7) Housing marketing and selection plan. The housing marketing and selection plan may make provi-
sion for payment by the project applicant of reasonable costs to the administering agency to develop, 
advertise, and maintain the list of eligible households and to monitor and enforce compliance with af-
fordability requirements. Such payment shall not exceed 1/2% of the amount of rents of affordable rent-
al units (payable annually) or 1% of the sale or resale prices of affordable homeownership units 
(payable upon each such sale or resale), as applicable.  
 
(8) Age restrictions. The district shall not include the imposition of restrictions on age.  
 
(9) Phasing. For housing that is approved and developed in phases, the proportion of affordable housing 
units shall be consistent across all phases. 
 
(10) Computation. Prior to the granting of any building permit for the housing component of a project, 
the applicant for such building permit must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Planning Board, that 
the method by which such affordable rents or affordable purchase prices are computed shall be con-
sistent with state or federal guidelines for affordability applicable to the Town.  
 
(11)No waiver. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the affordability provisions in this sec-
tion shall not be waived.  
 
H. Density and dimensional regulations.  
 
(1) Lot area, width and frontage.  
(a) No building, except a detached building or accessory use, shall be constructed on a lot smaller 
than the land in the Tri-Town Smart Growth District.  
(b) The frontage of the lot must be available for access.  
 
 
===PAGE 204===
204 
 
(2) Setbacks and yards.  
(a) No building shall be constructed less than 40 feet from the exterior line with Youngs Road unless 
otherwise approved by the Planning Board in accordance with Subsection N(1).  
(b) No building or accessory use shall be constructed nearer to the boundary lines of the district than 
25 feet unless approved by the Planning Board in accordance with Subsection N(1).  
 
(3) Building height.  
(a) The maximum height of a building or structure shall be 38 feet, measured from the highest lev-
el abutting the building to the highest point of the building. 
(b) The vertical distance between any point on the roof of a building, whether main or accessory, 
and any point on the side or rear lines of its lot shall not exceed the horizontal distance be-
tween the same two points by more than five feet.  
 
(4) Density and unit type.  
(a) There shall not be more than 204 dwelling units.  
(b) Twenty percent of the units shall be one -bedroom units, 70% shall have two bedrooms and not 
less than 10% shall have three bedrooms.  
 
I. Parking requirements.  
 
(1) Dwellings: two parking spaces for each dwelling containing two or three bedrooms, one parking 
space for each dwelling unit containing one bedroom, which shall be attached to the dwelling structure 
unless otherwise approved by the Planning Board.  
(2) Guest parking. The location and number of guest parking spaces shall be approved during the de-
velopment plan review process.  
 
J. Signs. No signs except an entrance sign and interior directional signs are allowed.  
 
K. Performance standards. 
  
(1) The architectural style, including facades and color, handicapped units and access, walkways and 
16 landscaped areas shall be approved by the Planning Board as compatible with the Town of Lunen-
burg.  
(2) Landscaping shall be used to establish buffers between incompatible land uses, which shall be 
shown on the plan, including plant type and location.  
(3) Open spaces and pedestrian amenities shall be available to the public 
(4) Access points, service roads, driveways and driveway entrances, parking areas, lighting and pedes-
trian walkways shall be arranged and provided in a manner which facilitates interior circulation and 
minimizes conflict between vehicles and pedestrians.  
(5) Ease of access, travel and on -site movement for fire and police equipment and other emergency 
services shall be assured for public safety. 
(6) Utilities shall be placed underground, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Board.  
(7) Surface run-off shall be minimized and the protection of the site and adjacent properties from ero-
sion as a result thereof shall be assured.  
(8) The relationship of the buildings to the site, including the siting of buildings, structures and open 
spaces, shall be designed to permit passive solar energy and to permit maximum protection of pedestri-
an areas from adverse impact of winds, vapors or other emissions, shadows and/or noise.  
(9) The relationship of the buildings and site to adjoining areas, including compatibility with the pre-
vailing architectural style and landscape, shall assure suitable transition to adjoining properties.  
(10) Historical considerations and compatibility with abutting properties and the area in which it is 
located shall be respected.  
(11) Provision shall be made for maintenance of common areas and special features.  
===PAGE 205===
205 
 
(12) The design of parking and off -street loading areas shall comply with the Regulations of the Plan-
ning Board of the Town of Lunenburg Governing the Design, Construction and Maintenance of Off -
Street Parking and Loading Areas, effective January 1, 2005.  
(13) The landscaping shall comply with the Planning Board Guidelines for Nonresidential Landscap-
ing, effective January 1, 2005.  
(14) Alteration of the topography shall be limited as nearly as possible to that which is necessary for 
the provision of access.  
(15) Appropriate surface treatment, fencing, walls and signage shall be provided. 
(16) Adequate size, location and screening of exterior and outside storage and service areas shall be 
provided.  
(17) Appropriate provision shall be made for waste disposal, water supply; refuse removal, drainage, 
dust and erosion control and other utilities and their appurtenances, in accordance with applicable 
Town regulations.  
(18) Adverse impacts as identified in the environmental impact statement required by the Lunenburg 
Planning Board Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, dated March 2002, shall be 
mitigated to the satisfaction of the Planning Board.  
(19) Utilities, including water, sewer, drainage, and electricity, shall conform to the applicable sections 
of the Lunenburg Planning Board Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, dated 
March 2002.  
(20) Project review, development and construction shall be monitored in accordance with the Monitor-
ing and Inspection Procedures, dated 2005, and the Fee System of the Lunenburg Planning Board in 
effect January 1, 2005.  
 
L. Application for plan approval.  
 
(1) Required submittals. The application for plan approval shall be accompanied by the following plans 
and documents. All site plans shall be prepared by a certified architect, landscape architect, and/or a 
civil engineer registered in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. All landscape plans shall be prepared 
by a certified landscape architect registered in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. All building ele-
vations shall be prepared by a certified architect registered in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. All 
plans shall be signed and stamped, and drawings prepared at a scale of one inch equals 40 feet or larg-
er, or at a scale as approved in advance by the Planning Board, and shall show the following:  
(a) The perimeter dimensions of the lot; Assessors Map, lot and block numbers.  
(b) Existing and proposed buildings, structures, building setbacks, parking spaces, driveway open-
ings, distance between buildings, plan view exterior measurements of individual buildings, 
driveways, service areas and open areas.  
(c) Internal roads, sidewalks and parking areas (width dimensions of paving and indication of num-
ber of parking spaces).  
(d) All facilities for sewage, refuse and other waste disposal and for surface water drainage.  
(e) All proposed landscaping features, such as fences, walls, planting areas and walks  on the lot 
and tract.  
(f) Existing major natural features, including streams, wetlands and all trees six inches or larger in 
caliper ("Caliper" is girth of the tree at approximately waist height.).  
(g) Scale and North arrow (minimum scale of one inch equals 40 feet).  
(h) Total site area in square footage and acres and area to be set aside as public open space, if ap-
propriate.  
(i) Percentage of lot coverage (including the percentage of the lot covered by buildings) and per-
centage of open space, if appropriate.  
(j) The proposed residential density in terms of dwelling units per acre and types of proposed com-
mercial uses in terms of the respective floor area, and recreation areas, and number of units 
proposed by type: number of one-bedroom units, two-bedroom units, etc., if appropriate.  
(k) Location sketch map (indicate surrounding streets and properties and any additional abutting 
lands owned by the applicant).  
===PAGE 206===
206 
 
(l) Representative elevation sketches of buildings (indicate height of building and construction ma-
terial of the exterior facade).  
(m) Typical unit floor plan for residential uses. (Floor plan should be indicated for each type of 
unit 18 proposed: either one bedroom, two bedrooms or more.) The area in square feet of each 
typical unit should be indicated.  
(n) Developer's (or his representative's) name, address and phone number.  
(o) Any other information, which may include required traffic, school, utilities impact study and in 
order to adequately evaluate the scope and potential impacts of the proposed project.  
 
(2) Records. All plans and elevations presented with the application shall remain a part of the records 
of the Planning Board. The provision of the plan and the application shall be the sole responsibility of 
the applicant.  
 
M. Procedures.  
 
(1) Filing. An applicant for plan approval shall file the application form and other required submit-
tals as set forth above with the Town Clerk, and also shall file forthwith the required number 
of copies of the application and other required submittals as set forth above with the Planning 
Board, including the date of filing with the Town Clerk.  
(2) Circulation to other boards. Upon receipt of the application, the Planning Board shall immedi-
ately provide a copy of the application materials to the Board of Selectmen, Board of Health, 
Conservation Commission, Fire Department, Police Department, Building Commissioner, De-
partment of Public Works, and other municipal officers, agencies or boards for comment, and 
any such board, agency or officer shall provide any written comments within 60 days of its 
receipt of a copy of the plan and application for approval.  
(3) Hearing. The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing for which notice has been given as 
provided in MGL c. 40A, § 11. The decision of the Planning Board shall be made, and a writ-
ten notice of the decision filed with the Town Clerk, within 120 days of the receipt of the ap-
plication by the Town Clerk. The required time limits for such action may be extended by 
written agreement between the applicant and the Planning Board, with a copy of such agree-
ment being filed in the office of the Town Clerk. Failure of the Planning Board to take action 
within 120 days or extended time, if applicable, shall be deemed to be an approval of the ap-
plication and site plan.  
(4) Peer review. The applicant shall be required to pay for reasonable consulting fees to provide 
peer review of the plan approval application, pursuant to MGL c. 44, § 53G.  
 
N. Decision.  
 
(1) Waivers. Upon the request of the applicant, the Planning Board may waive dimensional and other 
requirements of this section, including the performance standards of Subsection K, in the interests of 
design flexibility and overall project quality, and upon a finding of consistency of such variation with 
the overall purpose and objectives of the Tri-Town Smart Growth District, or if it finds that such waiv-
er will allow the project to achieve the density, affordability, mix of uses, and/or physical character 
allowable under this section.  
(2) Plan review. An application for plan approval shall be reviewed for consistency with the purpose 
and intent of this section, and such plan review shall be construed as an as -of-right review and approv-
al process as required by and in accordance with the enabling laws.  
(3) Plan approval. Plan approval shall be granted where the Planning Board finds that:  
 
(a) The applicant has submitted the required fees and information as set forth herein; and  
(b) The project and site plan meet the requirements and standards set forth in this section, or a 
waiver 19 has been granted therefrom; and  
(c) Extraordinary adverse potential impacts of the project on nearby properties have been ade-
quately mitigated.  
===PAGE 207===
207 
 
(4) Plan disapproval. A site plan may be disapproved only where the Planning Board finds that:  
 
(a) The applicant has not submitted the required fees and information as set forth herein; or  
(b) The project and site plan do not meet the requirements and standards set forth in this section, 
or a waiver has not been granted therefrom; or  
(c) It is not possible to adequately mitigate significant adverse project impacts on nearby proper-
ties by means of suitable conditions.  
 
(5) Form of decision. The Planning Board shall issue to the applicant a copy of its decision contain-
ing the name and address of the owner, identifying the land affected, and the plans that were the 
subject of the decision, and certifying that a copy of the decision has been filed with the Town Clerk 
and that all plans referred to in the decision are on file with the Planning Board. If 20 days have 
elapsed after the decision has been filed in the office of the Town Clerk without an appeal having 
been filed or if such appeal, having been filed, is dismissed or denied, the Town Clerk shall so certi-
fy on a copy of the decision. A copy of the decision or application bearing such certification shall be 
recorded in the Registry of Deeds for the county and district in which the land is located and in-
dexed in the grantor index under the name of the owner of record or recorded and noted on the own-
er's certificate of title. The fee for recording or registering shall be paid by the applicant.  
 
O. Change in plans after approval by Planning Board.  
 
(1) Minor change. After plan approval, an applicant may apply to make minor changes involving 
minor utility or building orientation adjustments, or minor adjustments to parking or other site de-
tails that do not affect the overall buildout or building envelope of the site, or provision of open 
space, number of housing units, or housing need or affordability features. Such minor changes must 
be submitted to the Planning Board on red-lined prints of the approved plan, reflecting the proposed 
change, and on application forms provided by the Planning Board. The Planning Board may author-
ize such changes at any regularly scheduled meeting, without the need to hold a public hearing. The 
Planning Board shall set forth any decision to approve or deny such minor change by motion and 
written decision, and provide a copy to the applicant for filing with the Town Clerk.  
(2) Major change. Those changes deemed by the Planning Board to constitute a major change be-
cause of the nature of the change in relation to the prior approved plan, or because such change can-
not be appropriately characterized as a minor change as described above, shall be processed by the 
Planning Board as a new application for plan approval pursuant to this section.  
 
§ 250-4.14 12 Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District.  
 
A. Purpose. The Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District has been established to encourage 
development that in itself is compatible and aligns with the character of the Town; to create, through 
amenities, a sense of community that is an appealing place to live and work, ensuring the vision of 
Lunenburg as a New England Town, and further, to provide clear and precise guidelines as to the 
building and lot design that will revitalize the area and, when possible, using sustainable building 
materials and design features that include indoor/outdoor conservation methods.  
 
B. Location: in Lunenburg from the Fitchburg line to the Leominster line, including all of the Indus-
trial District along Summer Street in Lunenburg and all of the Commercial District along Summer 
Street and Youngs Road in Lunenburg.  
 
C. Objectives:  
 
(1) Allowing a mix of uses in close proximity in the district within the development, including resi-
dential, retail, office, and light industrial;  
(2) Preserving and restoring a village-style character to the designated overlay area;  
(3) Promoting a balance of land uses;  
===PAGE 208===
208 
 
(4) Promoting the opportunity for people to work, meet, shop, and utilize services in the vicinity of       
      their residences;  
(5) Providing opportunities for the development of variety of housing opportunities;  
(6) Providing opportunities for a mixture of uses in the same building; 
(7) Promoting a positive pedestrian environment in the district;  
(8) Facilitating integrated physical design;  
(9) Promoting a consistent level of design quality;  
(10) Encouraging the development of flexible space for small and emerging businesses;  
(11) Facilitating development proposals responsive to current and future market conditions;  
(12)Encouraging the development of open spaces and parks within the district to accommodate  
       workers, residents, pedestrians, and shoppers.  
 
D. Permit granting authority. The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) is hereby the review authority per-
taining to the Commercial District and where applicable projects proposed within the overlay district 
shall be reviewed under § 250-8.4, Site plan approval. The Planning Board is hereby the permit grant-
ing authority pertaining to the Industrial District where applicable projects proposed within the overlay 
district shall be reviewed under § 250-8.4, Site plan approval Special Permit Granting  
Authority for the Summer Street Overlay District.  
 
E. Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted within the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay 
District:  
 
(1) Any use permitted by right or special permit in the underlying zone Uses as outlined in Section 250
-4.1.G Use Table.  
(2) Mixed-use development, which is a development of a tract of land, building, or structure with two 
or more different uses such as, but not limited to, residential, office, retail, institutional, or entertain-
ment. Residential uses shall be allowed as part of a mixed-use project.  
 
F. Dimensional standards. These standards herein are hereby established as such to achieve a village -
style design for the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District.  
 
(1) Occupied lot area.  
(a) The total area on any lot devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage, and display and other hard -
surfaced areas may occupy up to 85% of the total lot area. 
(2) Maximum height: no more than 55 feet measured from ground level.  
(3) Setbacks. A landscape plan shall be required for screening and buffering purposes for setback are-
as.  
Front: 20 feet.  
Side: 15 feet.  
Rear: 20 feet.  
(4) Minimum lot size: 20,000 square feet.  
(5) Minimum frontage: 50 feet.  
(6) Minimum open space. All projects within the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District shall 
have at least 10% of the total site area devoted to open space; required setbacks shall be consid-
ered as part of the total area required for open space. The required open space shall not be used for 
parking or loading purposes and shall be open and unobstructed to the sky. Items such as benches, 
walkways, planters, landscaping, kiosks, gazebos and similar structures shall not be considered 
obstructions.  
(7) Mixed-use developments that propose to have retail and residential uses within the same building 
on lots that meet the minimum dimensional requirements established herein shall be allowed only 
in a two-story building.  
===PAGE 209===
209 
 
(8) A mixed -use development within the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District must pro-
vide that at least 10% of its residential units be made affordable to low- to moderate-income persons 
in perpetuity as defined by the Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development (EOHED).  
 
G. Additional standards. As well as the standards required under § 250-8.4, Site plan approval, these 
additional standards are established for the Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District:  
 
(1) Building location and facade.  
(a) The building front shall face the street on which the lot obtains its frontage.  
(b) If there is more than one building on the site, the siting shall be approved by the special per-
mit granting authority pursuant to the procedures outlined in § 250-8.4, and there shall be 
sidewalk connections between buildings.  
(c) Flat roofs that are visible from the street level are prohibited unless an appropriate facade is 
included in the design.  
(d) Roof colors shall be appropriate to the area and consistent through the site, except signs ap-
proved under the development plan review.  
(e) The principal building(s) shall be connected to public water and sewer where readily availa-
ble and accessible. 
(f) Lighting, signage, and architectural style shall be consistent with other uses in the district and 
reviewed under the development plan review (DPR).  
(2) Parking, loading, and interior streets.  
(a) Parking lots shall be located at the rear of or the side of buildings wherever feasible or practi-
cal.  
(b) Parking lot layout shall take into consideration pedestrian circulation. Pedestrian crosswalks 
shall be 22 provided, where necessary and appropriate.  
(c) Turning radius of emergency response vehicles shall be accommodated within the design of 
the project. 
(d) All loading docks shall be at the rear of building(s) and not be visible from the street.  
(e) All paved areas shall be separated from the lot line setback by a four-foot landscaped area of 
indigenous materials.  
(3) Landscaping and screening.  
(a) There shall be a minimum of a four -foot landscaped area along the street frontage and along 
the front and side of the principal building(s) and plantings of indigenous material along the 
facade of the building(s) and between the buildings if there is more than one building on 
site.  
(b) Such landscaping shall not interfere with sight lines of drivers.  
(c) Natural features shall be retained wherever feasible.  
(d) Screening of the site shall be by a four-foot landscaped strip at the rear and side lot lines.  
(e) Additional landscaping and screening may be required where it is deemed such appropriate 
measures are in order.  
(4) Streetscape.  
(a) Light fixtures shall be designed to appropriately blend within the district and be of a number 
and height that grants plentiful lighting. Such lighting shall shine downward so as to not 
affect adjacent properties.  
(b) Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building.  
(c) Outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of a size and be consistent with the prin-
cipal use(s) of the site.  
(d) Trash receptacles must be of a size that provides proper usage.  
(e) Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable and practical, and from the 
parking areas to building(s). 
 
H. Waiver. The review authority may waive any of the standards within this section, provided that 
such waiver will not substantially derogate from the village-style design standard established herein.  
===PAGE 210===
210 
 
I. Commonly held lots. Any lot that is commonly held in ownership with an adjacent lot in this dis-
trict may be treated as a single lot in accordance with this section, provided that the total area of such 
lots is at least 20,000 square feet in area combined, the lots have a combined contiguous frontage of 
at least 50 feet, and both are vacant of structures, parking facilities, or accessory uses.  
 
J. Conflict with other laws. All development activities within the Summer Street Revitalization 
Overlay District shall comply with applicable laws, regulations, and standards of the Town, except 
that in the event of a conflict between this bylaw and any such laws and regulations, the provisions 
of this bylaw shall control, provided that they are consistent with state and federal law.  
 
K. Severability. If any section or provision of this bylaw is found by a court of competent jurisdic-
tion to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of any other section or provision of this 
bylaw. 
 
ARTICLE 33.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, §§ 
4.15, 4.16 and 4.18, which are Sections of the Protective Bylaw, regarding solar energy systems, 
Registered Marijuana Dispensaries and the moratorium on the sale and distribution of recreational 
marijuana, as shown on a document entitled “Solar and Registered Marijuana Dispensaries ” dated 
April 10, 2018, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, the 
entire text of which is on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning 
Board; take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen rec-
ommend approval and Finance Committee – no direct financial impact) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, §§ 4.15, 4.16 and 4.18, which are Sections of 
the Protective Bylaw, regarding solar energy systems, Registered Marijuana Dispensaries and 
the moratorium on the sale and distribution of recreational marijuana, as shown on a docu-
ment entitled “Solar and Registered Marijuana Dispensaries” dated April 10, 2018, with addi-
tions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is 
on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board. 1  
 
 SOLAR AND REGISTERED MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES  
10 April 2018  
§ 250-4.15 13 Solar energy systems.  
A. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide siting for solar photovoltaic energy systems for 
power generation for all home, commercial or industrial installations. Small -scale ground-mounted 
photovoltaic installations, roof -mounted solar energy installations and large -scale ground-mounted 
photovoltaic installations within the Solar Overlay District may be constructed without need for dis-
cretionary approval as set forth herein. Large -scale ground-mounted photovoltaic installations out-
side of the Solar Overlay District may be constructed by special permit, provided certain criteria as 
set forth herein are met. The provisions in this section of the Zoning Bylaw shall apply to the con-
struction, operation, repair, and/or removal of all solar electric systems, and to physical modifica-
tions that materially alter the type, configuration, or size of these installations or related equipment.  
B. Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:  
 
BUFFER STRIP  
A strip of land between the solar photovoltaic arrays, and any structures accessory thereto, and the 
boundary of the parcel, reserved for plant material, berms, walls or fencing to serve as a visual barri-
er.  
LARGE-SCALE GROUND-MOUNTED PHOTOVOLTAIC INSTALLATION  
A solar photovoltaic system that is structurally mounted on the ground and has a nameplate capacity 
of 10 kW or greater.  
===PAGE 211===
211 
 
PLANT MATERIAL  
Trees or shrubs of a type and height that sufficiently screen the arrays without blocking necessary 
sun that would hinder the product performance, including ground cover that would screen the lower 
portion of the arrays.  
RATED NAMEPLATE CAPACITY  
The maximum rated output of electric power production of the photovoltaic system in direct current 
(DC).  
ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY INSTALLATION  
Solar photovoltaic arrays placed on the roof of residences, or commercial, industrial or institutional 
buildings and Town-owned municipal buildings.  
SMALL-SCALE GROUND-MOUNTED PHOTOVOLTAIC INSTALLATION  
A solar photovoltaic system that is structurally mounted on the ground and has a nameplate capacity 
under 10 kW.  
SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC ARRAY  
An arrangement of solar photovoltaic panels.  
C. Small-scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installations and roof-mounted solar energy instal-
lations.  
(1) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the creation of renewable energy for individual 
2 residences, commercial enterprises and municipal buildings, as-of-right.  
(2) Roof-mounted solar energy installations. Roof-mounted solar energy installations shall be located 
so as not to increase the total height of the structure more than one foot above the applicable zoning 
regulations related to height in the district in which it is located, or such other height as is determined 
by the Building Commissioner to be essential for proper operation, but in no case no more than four 
feet.  
(3) Small-scale ground-mounted solar energy installations.  
(a) Small-scale ground-mounted photovoltaic installations are not permitted in the zoning dimension-
al setbacks as listed in § 250-5.2 of the Zoning Bylaw and may not be located closer than 25 feet to 
residential side yard lines.  
(b) Dimensional setbacks for small-scale ground-mounted photovoltaic installation shall have a front 
lot setback no closer than the existing foundation of the primary dwelling to the front property line, 
except when the existing foundation of the primary dwelling is more than 125 feet from the front 
property line or otherwise if determined appropriate by the Building Commissioner.  
(c) Small -scale ground -mounted photovoltaic installations shall be adequately screened from the 
neighboring lot line as determined by the Building Commissioner.  
(d) A small -scale ground-mounted photovoltaic installation with 20 feet or greater in height, at its 
maximum extension, shall require a special permit in accordance with Subsection D(3).  
(4) Required documents. The following documents shall be required:  
(a) Sun and shadow diagrams specific to the proposed installation to determine the solar access.  
(b) Detailed information, including maps, plans or dimensional sketches showing proposed location 
of the solar installation, including any setbacks from property lines or distances from structures 
which are used for habitation on adjacent properties, and a landscape diagram showing proposed 
screening.  
(c) Site drawings showing the building and structure footprints, property lines, location and the di-
mensions of solar arrays, ridgeline of roof and description of the installation.  
(d) Elevation drawings showing heights of buildings and solar arrays.  
(5) Permitting. Small -scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installations and roof -mounted solar 
energy installations require only a building permit, except that a small -scale ground-mounted solar 
photovoltaic installation 20 feet in height or greater, at its maximum extension, shall require a special 
permit in accordance with Subsection D(3). All data listed above shall be submitted to the Building 
Commissioner. All other necessary permits shall be obtained before a building permit is issued.  
(6) As built plans. As -built plans shall be submitted prior to final inspection to the Building Com-
missioner and copied to the Planning Board.  
 
 
===PAGE 212===
212 
 
D. Large-scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installations.  
(1) Purpose.  
(a) The purpose of this subsection is to facilitate the creation of new large -scale ground-mounted solar 
photovoltaic installations by providing standards for the placement, design, construction, operation, 
monitoring, modification and removal of such installations that address public safety, minimize 3 im-
pacts on environmental, scenic, natural and historic resources, and to provide adequate financial assur-
ance for the eventual decommissioning of such installations.  
(b) Subject to the requirements below, large -scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installations are 
permitted as-of-right in the Solar Overlay District and by special permit in any other district. The spe-
cial permit granting authority for these purposes shall be the Planning Board.  
(2) Solar Overlay District. Large-scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installations are allowed by 
right in the following designated overlay district:  
(a) 27 Youngs Road, 42 acres, Map 115, Parcel 016 (Commercial District).  
(b) 671 Lancaster Avenue, 132 acres, Map 110, Parcel 003 (Residence B District).  
(c) 500 Leominster Shirley Road, 17.4 acres, Map 144, Parcel 001 (Office Park and Industrial Dis-
trict).  
(3) Siting by special permit. Except where permitted as -of-right in the Solar Overlay District, large -
scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installations may be located on any lot containing more than 
20 acres in any district by special permit issued by the Planning Board; provided, however, that the 
requirements of this § 250-4.15 and the following criteria are met:  
(a) Standards. In granting the special permit, the Planning Board shall find that the permit may be 
granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without nullifying or substantially dero-
gating from the intent and purpose of this bylaw, and shall find that:  
[1] The specific site is an appropriate location for such an installation;  
[2] The proposed installation will not adversely affect the existing neighborhood by the following:  
[a] Historical significance.  
[b] Scenic vistas.  
[c] Natural and rural character.  
[d] Public safety.  
[3] The granting of the special permit will not reasonably diminish the available light, air, sunlight and 
other amenities; and  
[4] There will be no nuisance or serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians.  
(b) Conditions. The Planning Board may impose any conditions deemed necessary to achieve the  
purpose of this bylaw, such as, but not limited to, the following:  
[1] Greater than minimum setback requirements;  
[2] Modification of exterior appearance;  
[3] Limitation of size or extent of facilities;  
[4] Regulation of traffic and site plan features;  
[5] Screening of premises from view by use of appropriate walls, fencing or buffer strips; 4  
[6] Control of the number, location, size and lighting of signs;  
[7] Additional design and siting modifications where appropriate.  
(4) Development plan review.  
(a) All large -scale ground -mounted solar photovoltaic installations shall require development plan 
review, under § 250-8.4 of the Zoning Bylaws, by the Lunenburg Planning Board. A public infor-
mation meeting shall be held by said Board. The Building Commissioner shall not issue a building 
permit unless, and until, the Planning Board submits an approved development plan review docu-
ment, and special permit documentation, where applicable, to the Building Commissioner.  
(b) A building permit will be issued by the Building Commissioner that shows evidence that the pro-
ject is consistent with state and federal building codes, the findings and directives of the development 
plan review, and/or special permit, and local bylaws and regulations, including those set forth by the 
Conservation Commission. As-built plans shall be submitted prior to final inspection to the Building 
Commissioner, with copies to the Planning Board.  
===PAGE 213===
213 
 
(5) Utility notification. Evidence shall be provided at the time of the application for the development 
plan review that the utility company that operates the electrical grid where the installation is to be lo-
cated has been informed of the applicant's intent to construct a solar photovoltaic installation and that 
approval to connect to the grid has been granted or appropriate application(s) has or will be made to 
such utilities for interconnection. Off -grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement. Reasonable 
efforts should be made to place all utility connections underground, depending on appropriate soil con-
ditions, shape and topography of the site.  
(6) Fees. An application for a development plan review shall be accompanied by the required fee and a 
tri-party account (in -house escrow account with the Planning Board, developer and Town Treasurer) 
for engineering review, monitoring, and inspections fees. An application for a building permit shall be 
accompanied by the fee required for a building permit. All other fees that shall be required by permit-
ting parties (Conservation Commission, etc.) shall be administered according to their regulations.  
(7) Setbacks and buffer strips.  
(a) Buffer strips in all districts. All ground -mounted installations shall be surrounded by a buffer strip 
which shall be 200 feet in depth in a Residential, Conservation or Recreation District and shall be 50 
feet in a Commercial or Industrial District unless it abuts a Residential, Conservation or Recreation 
District, in which case the buffer strip shall be 200 feet in depth along such abutting lot lines, unless 
the applicant can demonstrate, and the Planning Board finds, that adequate buffering can be provided 
in a narrower buffer strip.  
(b) Setbacks in all districts.  
[1] Front yard. The front yard shall be at least 50 feet; provided, however, that when the lot is in a Res-
idential, Outlying or Recreation District or abuts a Residential, Conservation, or a Recreation District, 
the front lot setback shall not be less than 200 feet.  
[2] Side yard. Each side yard setback shall be at least 50 feet; provided, however, that when the lot is 
in a Residential, Outlying or Recreation District or abuts a Residential, Conservation, or a Recreation 
District, the side yard setback shall not be less than 200 feet.  
[3] Rear yard. The rear yard shall be at least 50 feet; provided, however, that when the lot is in a Resi-
dential, Outlying or Recreation District or abuts a Residential, Conservation, or a Recreation District, 
the rear yard setback shall not be less than 200 feet. 5 (8) Required documents. In addition to docu-
ments required for development plan review, the following will be required for large -scale ground-
mounted solar photovoltaic installations. The Planning Board may waive one or more of these require-
ments in its sole discretion under appropriate circumstances for large-scale ground-mounted solar pho-
tovoltaic installations between 10 kW and 249 kW.  
(a) All plans and maps shall be prepared, stamped and signed by a professional engineer licensed to 
practice in Massachusetts.  
(b) Property lines and physical features, including roads for property sites.  
(c) Proposed changes to landscape of site, including grading, vegetation, clearing, planting, screening 
vegetation or structures.  
(d) Locations of wetlands and priority habitat areas defined by the Natural Heritage and Endangered 
Species Program.  
(e) Locations of floodplains or inundation areas for moderate- or high-hazard dams.  
(f) A list of any hazardous materials proposed to be located on the site in excess of household quanti-
ties and a plan to prevent their release to the environment as appropriate. [See Subsection D(9)(i)].  
(g) Drawings of the installation showing the proposed layout of the system and any potential shading 
from nearby structures.  
(h) One- or three-phase line electrical diagrams detailing the installation, associated components and 
electrical interconnection methods with all National Electrical Code compliant disconnects and over-
current devices.  
(i) Documentation of the major system components to be used, including the electric -generating PV 
panels, mounting system, inverter, etc.  
(j) Name of property owner, address, telephone number, e-mail.  
(k) Name of lessor or lessee, address, telephone number, e-mail.  
(l) Name of contact person, address, telephone number, e-mail.  
(m) Name of designing engineer, address, telephone number, e-mail.  
===PAGE 214===
214 
 
(n) Names of contractors, address, telephone number, e-mail.  
(o) Name of installer, address, telephone number, e-mail.  
(p) Zoning district designation for parcel of land, map and parcel.  
(q) Documentation of actual or prospective access and control of the project site sufficient to allow 
for construction and operation and maintenance of the proposed solar photovoltaic installation.  
(r) Provision of water, including that needed for fire protection.  
(s) Proof of liability insurance.  
(t) Description of the financial surety required by Subsection D(12) below.  
(u) Sight line representations depicting in profile the view of the proposed installation, and any 6 ap-
purtenant structures, from the location upon any public road within 300 feet that would have the most 
unobstructed view of the installations, and from the closest wall of each residential building within 
300 feet of the highest point of the installation.  
(v) A screening plan, in compliance with Subsection D(9)(f).  
(9) Design standards.  
(a) Lighting and security. Lighting of solar photovoltaic installations shall be consistent with local, 
state and federal law. Lighting of other parts of the installation, such as any appurtenant structures, 
shall be limited to that required for safety and operational purposes and shall be reasonably shielded 
from abutting properties. Where feasible, any required lighting shall be directed downward and shall 
incorporate full-cut-off fixtures to reduce light pollution. Surveillance and security cameras shall be 
shielded from viewing abutting private property or invading the privacy of any abutting residential 
property owner.  
(b) Signage. Signage size shall comply with the Zoning Bylaw and shall not be used for displaying 
any advertising except to identify the owner and/or operator of the solar installation and a twenty-four
-hour emergency contact telephone number.  
(c) Land clearing. Clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to what is necessary for construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of the installation Any land disturbance, including earth removal of 
land cleared greater than one acre shall be subject to stormwater management criteria and/or as other-
wise prescribed by applicable laws, regulations and bylaws.  
(d) Safety, emergency service and environmental standards. The applicant shall provide a copy of the 
project summary, electrical schematic, and site plan. The applicant shall develop an emergency re-
sponse plan, including showing all means of shutting down the solar installation. The applicant shall 
submit the name of the person answerable to inquires throughout the life of the installation. If the des-
ignated person changes, the name of the new designated person shall be submitted as an addendum.  
(e) Monitoring and maintenance.  
[1] The applicant shall submit a plan for the operation and maintenance of the installation which shall 
include measures for maintaining the site, including safe access, stormwater control, structural repairs 
and the integrity of security measures. These measures must be acceptable to the Fire Chief and emer-
gency medical services personnel. If needed, training of service personnel will be provided by the 
applicant. The owner/operator shall be responsible for the cost of maintaining the installation.  
[2] The applicant shall also submit a monitoring/inspection form under the development plan review 
during construction, and shall further submit a report on the condition of the structure and site by Jan-
uary 15 of each year.  
(f) Visual impact. Any large-scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installation shall be designed to 
minimize visual impacts, including preserving natural vegetation to the maximum extent possible, 
blending in equipment with the surroundings, and adding vegetative buffers to screen abutting resi-
dential properties, whether developed or not. Siting shall be such that the view of the solar electric -
generating installation from other areas of Town shall be as minimal as possible. Buffer strips shall 
surround the proposed project. A screening plan, that assures the facility is shielded to greatest extent 
possible from public view, shall be required to be reviewed under the development plan review.  
(g) Height. The height of any structure associated with a large -scale ground-mounted solar photovol-
taic installation shall not exceed 35 feet. 7 (h) Roads. All access roads and interior roads shall be con-
structed to minimize grading, removal of stone wall or trees and to minimize impacts to environmen-
tal or historic resources.  
===PAGE 215===
215 
 
(i) Hazardous materials. Hazardous materials stored, used, or generated on site shall not exceed the 
amount for a very small quantity generator of hazardous waste as defined by the Department of Envi-
ronmental Protection ("DEP") pursuant to 310 CMR 30.000 and shall meet all requirements of the 
DEP, including storage of hazardous materials in a building with an impervious floor that is not adja-
cent to any floor drains to prevent discharge to the outdoor environment. If hazardous materials are 
utilized within the solar electric equipment, then impervious containment areas capable of controlling 
any release to the environment and to prevent potential contamination of groundwater are required.  
(j) Noise. Noise generated by a large-scale ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installation, and by any 
associated equipment and machinery, shall conform to applicable state and local noise regulations, 
including the Department of Environmental Protection's Division of Air Quality noise regulations, 310 
CMR 7.10. The site shall not produce any other vibration, harmonics, or interference which would be 
perceived or impact the normal function of electronics off site.  
(10) Modifications. All modification requests to a solar photovoltaic installation, including changes in 
arrays, addition to number of arrays or change in placement, made after issuance of the required build-
ing permit shall require review through development plan review for compliance with this bylaw.  
(11) Abandonment and removal. Absent notice of the proposed date of decommissioning or written 
notice of extenuating circumstances, the solar photovoltaic installation shall be considered abandoned 
when it fails to operate for more than one year without the written consent of the Planning Board. The 
owner or operator shall physically remove the installation no more than 150 days after the date of 
abandonment or the proposed date of decommissioning operations. The owner or operator shall notify 
the Planning Board by certified mail of the proposed date of discontinued operations and plans for re-
moval. The notification shall consist of the methodology of physical removal of all structures, equip-
ment, security barriers and transmission lines, disposal of all solid and hazardous waste and stabiliza-
tion or revegetation of the site. Landscaping, etc. may be left upon approval of the Planning Board. If 
the owner or operator fails to remove the installation in accordance with the above criteria, the Town 
may, after the receipt of an appropriate court order or consent of the property owner, enter the property 
and physically remove the installation at the owner's expense. As a condition of development plan re-
view, a property owner shall agree to allow the Town entry to remove an abandoned or decommis-
sioned installation. The cost for the removal will be charged to the property owner in accordance with 
the provisions of MGL c. 139, § 3A as a tax lien on the property.  
(12) Financial surety. Proponents of large -scale solar photovoltaic projects shall provide a form of 
surety, either through an escrow account, bond or otherwise, to cover the cost of removal in the event 
the Town must remove the installation and remediate the landscape, in an amount and form deter-
mined to be reasonable by the development plan review authority, but in no event to exceed more than 
125% of the cost of removal and compliance with the additional requirements set forth herein, as de-
termined by the project proponent. Such surety will not be required for municipally or state -owned 
facilities. The project owner/operator shall submit a fully inclusive estimate of the costs associated 
with removal, prepared by a qualified engineer. The amount shall include a mechanism for calculating 
increased removal cost due to inflation.  
E. Inclusionary uses and conflicts.  
(1) Small accessory or ornamental solar products which do not generate electricity for use in a dwell-
ing or structure are exempt from the provisions in this bylaw. 8 (2) In the event that any part of this 
section conflicts with other requirements of the Zoning Bylaw, the requirements of this section shall 
apply.  
§ 250-4.16 14 Registered marijuana dispensaries.  
[Added 5-3-2014 ATM by Art. 27]  
A. Purpose: to provide for the placement of registered marijuana dispensaries (RMDs), in accordance 
with the Humanitarian Medical Use of Marijuana Act, MGL c. 94C, App. 1 -1 - Chapter 369 of the 
Acts of 2012, in locations suitable for lawful medical marijuana facilities and to minimize adverse im-
pact of RMDs on adjacent properties, residential neighborhoods, historic districts, schools, play-
grounds and other locations where minors congregate by regulating the siting, design, placement, secu-
rity and removal of RMDs.  
 
 
===PAGE 216===
216 
 
B. Applicability.  
(1) All RMDs shall comply with the regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Department of Pub-
lic Health (DPH), 105 CMR 725.000, Implementation of an Act for the Humanitarian Medical Use of 
Marijuana, effective May 24, 2013, and any subsequent amendments thereto.  
(2) The Town reserves the right to require compliance with provisions in the DPH regulations for which 
the state granted waivers and/or exemptions to the RMD applicant based on the provisions of § 250-
8.3C (as to special permits) and § 250-8.4 (as to development plan review).  
C. Definition. As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:  
REGISTERED MARIJUANA DISPENSARY  
Also known as a "medical marijuana treatment center," means a not -for-profit entity registered under 
105 CMR 725.000 that acquires, cultivates, possesses, processes (including development of related 
products such as edible marijuana -infused products, tinctures, aerosols, oils, or ointments), transfers, 
transports, sells, distributes, dispenses, or administers marijuana, products containing marijuana, related 
supplies, or educational materials to registered qualifying patients or their personal caregivers. Unless 
otherwise specified, "RMD" refers to the site(s) of dispensing, cultivation, and preparation of marijua-
na.  
D. Location.  
(1) RMDs that include retail, processing and cultivation are allowed in Commercial Districts (C) by 
special permit.  
(2) Cultivation and/or agricultural processing: Allowed in all Residential Districts by Special Permit but 
only if the applicant is otherwise eligible for protection under §250-4.1.c(2) and/or G.L. c. 40A, § 3.  
Cultivation and/or agricultural processing are allowed in all districts by right if the applicant is eligible 
for protection under § 250-4.1C(2) and MGL c. 40A, § 3. Any cultivation within a building will re-
quire a special permit.  
(3) RMD facilities that cultivate and process, but do not do retail of marijuana, are allowed in Office 
Park and Industrial Districts (OP/I) by special permit.  
(4) All cultivation must be conducted within a building which must be located at least five hundred 
(500) feet from any residential property line.  
E. Procedure for submittal. 9 (1) The Planning Board shall be the special permit granting authority 
(SPGA) for a RMD special permit per MGL c. 40A, § 9. Siting shall be by special permit and develop-
ment plan review per § 250-8.4 of the Lunenburg Protective Bylaw.  
(2) Criteria. In granting any special permit, the Planning Board shall assure that the proposed use:  
(a) Will not be injurious or dangerous to the public health or unduly hazardous because of traffic con-
gestion, danger or fire or explosion or other reasons.  
(b) Will not have a material adverse effect on the value of land and buildings in the neighborhood or on 
the amenities of the neighborhood.  
(c) Will be operated with reasonable regard for order and sightliness, if an open use.  
(d) Will not produce noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare observable at the lot lines in 
amounts clearly detrimental to the normal use of adjacent property.  
(3) It is recommended that a concept plan showing the proposed use shall be submitted to the Planning 
Board for review and discussion prior to the filing for development plan review.  
(4) The provisions of § 250-8.3C (as to special permits) and § 250-8.4 (as to development plan re-
view) shall apply.  
(5) Filing under §§ 250-8.3C and 250-8.4 may be simultaneous.  
(6) A special permit granted under this section shall have a term limited to the duration of the appli-
cant's ownership of the premises as a RMD. A special permit may be transferred only with the ap-
proval of the special permit granting authority in the form of an amendment to the special permit 
with all information required in this section.  
F. Conditional standards.  
(1) Distance. All proposed RMDs shall be sited accordingly as stated in Massachusetts Department of 
Public Health (DPH) 105 CMR 725.110(A)(14), which states a RMD shall not be sited within a radius 
of 500 feet of a school, day -care center, or any facility in which children commonly congregate. The 
five-hundred-foot distance under this section is measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the 
proposed RMD.  
===PAGE 217===
217 
 
 (2) Setbacks and buffer strips. Cultivation facilities located outside of Retail Commercial (RC), Com-
mercial (C), or Office Park and Industrial Districts (OP/I) shall be surrounded by a buffer strip which 
shall be five hundred (500) 200 feet in depth unless the applicant can demonstrate, and the Planning 
Board finds, that adequate buffering can be provided in a narrower buffer strip. In all other districts, 
existing setbacks will apply.  
(3) Design standards. In addition to requirements contained elsewhere in this bylaw, § 250-4.6E, De-
sign standards, shall be applicable to a RMD. The applicant shall meet all requirements of the Commer-
cial District (C) or DPH guidelines, whichever is more restrictive.  
(4) Waivers. The Planning Board may waive any of the non-dimensional conditional standards within 
this section, provided that such waiver will not derogate from the intent established herein.  
G. Security.  
(1) All security measures shall be approved by the Lunenburg Fire and Police Chiefs. An active securi-
ty system shall be required for all RMD locations and approved by both the Lunenburg Fire and Police 
10 Chiefs and submitted to the Planning Board for final approval.  
(2) RMDs shall be open to inspection by the Fire Department, Police Department, Building Commis-
sioner and the Board of Health with 24 hours' notice of request for such inspection to be made by the 
Town department or official. A property contact shall be available to such Town department or official 
24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
H. Documentation. The Planning Board shall be provided with all decisions or approvals, denials or 
other substantive actions by DPH regarding the RMD and all submittals of information relating to such 
activities between the applicant or RMD and DPH.  
§ 250-4.18 15 Temporary moratorium on sale and distribution of recreational marijuana.  
[Added 5-6-2017 ATM by Art. 33]  
A. Purpose.  
(1) By vote at the state election on November 8, 2016, the voters of the commonwealth approved a law 
regulating the cultivation, distribution, possession and use of marijuana for recreational purposes. The 
law provides that it is effective on December 15, 2016, and the Cannabis Control Commission is cur-
rently required to issue regulations regarding implementation by March 15, 2018 (see Section 11 of 
Chapter 351 of the Acts of 2016).  
(2) Currently under the Zoning Bylaw, recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers 
are not a permitted use in the Town, and any regulations promulgated by the State Cannabis Control 
Commission are expected to provide guidance to the Town in regulating recreational marijuana estab-
lishments and marijuana retailers.  
(3) The regulation of recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers raises novel and 
complex legal, planning, and public safety issues and the Town needs time to study and consider the 
regulation of recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers and address such novel and 
complex issues, as well as to address the potential impact of the state regulations on local zoning and to 
undertake a planning process to consider amending the Zoning Bylaw regarding regulation of recrea-
tional marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers and other uses related to the regulation of recre-
ational marijuana. The Town intends to adopt a temporary moratorium on the use of land and structures 
in the Town for recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers so as to allow the Town 
sufficient time to engage in a planning process to address effects of such structures and uses in the 
Town and to adopt provisions of the Zoning Bylaw in a manner consistent with sound land use plan-
ning goals and objectives.  
B. Definitions.  
MANUFACTURE  
To compound, blend, extract, infuse or otherwise make or prepare a marijuana product.  
MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES  
Equipment, products, devices or materials of any kind that are intended or designed for use in planting, 
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, 
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting, inhal-
ing or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.  
===PAGE 218===
218 
 
MARIJUANA CULTIVATOR  
An entity licensed to cultivate, process and package marijuana, to deliver marijuana to marijuana es-
tablishments and to transfer marijuana to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers. 
 MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT  
A marijuana cultivator, marijuana testing facility, marijuana product manufacturer, marijuana retailer 
or any other type of licensed marijuana-related business.  
MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURER  
An entity licensed to obtain, manufacture, process and package marijuana and marijuana products, to 
deliver marijuana and marijuana products to marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana and 
marijuana products to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers.  
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS  
Products that have been manufactured and contain marijuana or an extract from marijuana, including 
concentrated forms of marijuana and products composed of marijuana and other ingredients that are 
intended for use or consumption, including edible products, beverages, topical products, ointments, 
oils and tinctures.  
MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY  
An entity licensed to test marijuana and marijuana products, including certification for potency and the 
presence of contaminants.  
MARIJUANA RETAILER  
An entity licensed to purchase and deliver marijuana and marijuana products from marijuana establish-
ments and to deliver, sell or otherwise transfer marijuana and marijuana products to marijuana estab-
lishments and to consumers.  
C. Temporary moratorium. For the reasons set forth above and notwithstanding any other provision of 
the Zoning Bylaw to the contrary, the Town hereby adopts a temporary moratorium on the use of land 
or structures for recreational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers. The moratorium shall 
be in effect through November 30, 2018. During the moratorium period, the Town shall undertake a 
planning process to address the potential impacts of recreational marijuana in the Town, consider the 
Cannabis Control Commission regulations regarding recreational marijuana establishments and mari-
juana retailers and related uses, determine whether the Town will prohibit on -site consumption at rec-
reational marijuana establishments and marijuana retailers and shall consider adopting new provisions 
of the Zoning Bylaw to address the impact and operation of recreational marijuana establishments and 
marijuana retailers and related uses.  
D. Severability. The provisions of this bylaw are severable. If any provision, paragraph, sentence, or 
clause of this bylaw or the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be 
held invalid. 
ARTICLE 34.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, § 
8.3.C, as follows: (i) by inserting in Subsection (1) a referenced to Section 9 of G.L. c. 40A; (b) by 
deleting  Subsections (3) and (4) in their entirety; and (iii) by renumbering Subsection (5) as Subsec-
tion (3); or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval and Finance Committee – no direct financial impact) ARTICLE 34 was DE-
FEATED.  
ARTICLE 35.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Map by rezoning portions of 
the land located at 1325, 1331, 1335, 1345, and 1351 Massachusetts Avenue from the Retail Commer-
cial District to the Commercial District, to delete the Route 2A Overlay District outline and label from 
the Map and change the words “Aquifer Boundary” to “Water Supply Protection District ”, as shown 
on a plan on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen and Planning Board; or take any 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval 
and Finance Committee – no direct financial impact)  
 
===PAGE 219===
219 
 
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to amend the Zoning Map by rezoning portions of the land located at 
1325, 1331, 1335, 1345, and 1351 Massachusetts Avenue from the Retail Commercial District to 
the Commercial District, to delete the Route 2A Overlay District outline and label from the Map 
and change the words “Aquifer Boundary” to “Water Supply Protection District”, as shown on 
a plan on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen and Planning Board. 
 
Annual Town Meeting adjourned at 4:00 pm. 
