===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RL
Minutes
Town of Lunenburg
Building ReUse Committee - October 6, 2014
A meeting of the Building Re-Use Committee was held at Town Hall on Monday, October 6, 2014 at 6:30
P.M. Present were committee members Jamie Toale, Ron Albert, Dave MacDonald, Mike Mackin and
Dave Matthews. Members Damon McQuaid, Deb Seeley, Mark Erickson and Rebecca Lantry were
absent. Also present was advisor, John Londa.
Announcements - None
Public Comment - None
Current Business:
Chair, Jamie Toale introduced agenda item and stated that the Planning Board was also meeting this
evening and therefore Damon McQuaid was absent. One of their agenda items was continuing to
workshop the Village District Zoning.
As a result of televised and newspaper discussion of potential future building plans, the Committee felt
the need to re-confirm what it believes its charter is. It was agreed that the committee saw the following
as our charge:
To do the appropriate staff work to assess current and future maintenance and capital
costs for Town owned buildings.
• To evaluate the market potential of buildings deemed "surplus".
To recommend a course of action and assist in the planning and execution of
renovation, demolition or sale of any space, as directed by the Town.
The discussion of the various properties resulted in the agreement as to the following status:
T.C. Passios & Brooks House - No action - School Committee to decide the boundaries and
timing of any excess property.
Ritter Building & Old Primary School - No Action - Awaiting any changes to Village Zoning
Bylaw that would affect potential use and market.
Town Hall - Reviewing renovation plans and costs for current capital needs and potential future
use.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Toale stated that the FLACC collaborative still had an interest in the Passios property. Mr. Matthews
suggested that FLACC begin to get financing together but it was agreed that any discussions beyond that
of mutual interest in continuing to talk would wait until the School Committee formalized their property
transfer plans.
Mr. Toale also stated that he had initiated a conversation with Verizon to determine any future plans for
their property on School Street, but it was unlikely that Verizon would be making any changes to their
switching station located between the Ritter and the Old Primary School.
Mr. Toale discussed the plan to tour the Old Primary School and other Town Halls around the state, and
suggested that he would arrange to do these tours via video using the Town's Public Access resources to
assist. This plan of action was supported, and committee members agreed to watch the videos as a
group or individually and then discuss at a future meeting.
Mr. Toale stated that he and Mr. Erickson would begin work on the cost/revenue assumption model
shortly and share the work with the committee as it was developed. Mr. MacDonald stated that the
cost/revenue assessments were the most important part of the committees work and would be crucial
in making recommendations on building re-use to the Town.
Old Business: - Discussion included in topics above.
Meeting Schedule:
Due to a conflict with BOS and the Planning Board meeting on October 20, Mr. Albert moved that the
10/20 meeting be cancelled. Mr. MacDonald seconded and the decision passed 5-0
Next meeting - November 3, 2014 @ 6:30 in Town Hall
November 17, 2014
Comment: - None
The meeting adjourned at 7:15
Respectfully submitted,
Jamie Toale
Chair, Building ReUse Committee
