===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Building Re-Use Committee
Meeting Minutes 6/18/2014
Members Present: Jamie Toale, Ron Albert, Damon McQuaid, Deb Seeley, Dave MacDonald, Steve
Raboin, Amory Phelps, Dave Matthews, Mike Mackin
Members Absent: none
Also Present: Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Kenneth Chenis,
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order June 18, 2014 @ 6:30 PM
Current Business:
Re-Use Committee Chair J. Toale noted the Committee's recommendations:
Eagle House- Suitable for current needs. No further action required.
Brooks House- Currently underutilized. Requires extensive retrofitting to be used for
municipal building. Historical consideration needs to be reviewed.
Ritter Building- Houses land use departments which can be relocated into another municipal
building.
Passios- Significant cost to maintain and repair.
Town Hall- Retrofit and repair for main municipal building. Size appropriate. Not huge market
Currently developing go-to-market plan and creating RFP template.
Resident David Rodgers opined Passios might have issues of transferring ownership to Town.
What about zoning, frontage, parking? Is the Town going to allow a developer to take over and
use for commercial venture and if it doesn't go well will the Town be stuck with it? Possible best
use is to tear down and use for parking.
Long term view for Town Center is for zoning which will open it up for commercial, retail, mixed
use, etc. N. Lockwood opined getting two overlay districts in place; one for Passios and one for
eeas to be determined by surveving.
willing to pay for survey work as part of their proposal.
There was discussion as to the Village District Bylaw being too specific; should be more general.
Too much regulation will be too restrictive.
As the Village District Bylaw is revised, it will be forwarded to the Re-Use Committee. The
Planning Board is planning to hold a public charrette in August and would appreciate
involvement and co-hosting by the Re-Use Committee. D. McQuaid looking for Board input as to
charrette agenda and date which he can announce at the June 30th Historical Commission's
Envisioning Session.
Meeting Adjournment:
Meeting Adjourned @ 8:19pm
