===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
APPROVED
10/6/24
Minutes
Town of Lunenburg
Building Re-Use Committee
A meeting of the Building Re-Use Committee was held at Town Hall on Monday, September 15, 2014.
at 6:30 p.m. Present were committee members Jamie Toale, Ron Albert, Dave MacDonald, Mark
Erickson, Deb Seeley, Mike Mackin, Rebecca Lantry and Dave Matthews. Member Damon McQuaid
was excused. Also present were advisors, Jay Lord and John Londa.
Chairman Toale introduced and welcomed new members, Mark Erickson representing the Finance
Committee and Rebecca Lantry representing the Historical Commission.
Public Comment: - None
Current Business:
Chairman Toale gave an update on Planning Board and Historical Commission activities that have
taken place over the summer since the last meeting of the Building Re-Use Committee. Ms. Lantry
gave an overview of the Charette that was held jointly by the Planning Board and Historical
Commission. The next step in the process will be the final Village Zoning By-Law to be presented by
the Planning Board at the Fall Town Meeting. Additional public input is welcomed and all committee's
Mike Mackin gave an update on the School Committee's work regarding the site plan, property lines
and dispostion of the TC Passios (TCP) building. The School Committee had asked the MSBA about
land retention, setbacks and other issues that could impact the new school building project if the TCP
property were to be released to the Town. In the opinion of the MSBA, there would be no impact on
future development (see attached email from Ms. Calmes to the MSBA). Mr. Mackin also distributed a
diagram of the school property showing a 40' setback which may be impacted by the final Village
Zoning By-Law (see attached). The diagram also showed 30 parking spaces adjacent to the TCP that
would require MSBA approval if released as part of the TCP property to the Town. The Committee
discussed the impact of these changes on the marketability of the TCP along with changes needed to
Memorial Drive. Mr. Mackin stated the the School Committee is awaiting the final Village Zoning
By-Law before moving ahead with any further discussion of the TCP property.
Mr. MacDonald suggested that since the TCP property is still under consideration by the School
Committee, that the Building Re-Use Committee focus its attention to the other buildings under its
charge. The TCP will remain on Building Re-Use agendas for future discussion.
Chairman Toale will be scheduling a tour for the Building Re-Use Committee of the Ashland Town
Hall and Mr. Toale will do a walk-through of the Primary School on behalf of the Committee.
Chairman Toale asked for a Task Team to begin the process of developing preliminary cost/revenue
assumptions. Mr Erickson and Mr. Toale volunteered. Mr. Albert noted that he and Mr. McQuaid had
begun preliminary discussions on the building design of the Town Hall renovation and would bring
more information to the Committee's next meeting.
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 4 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
Old Business:
i Ming Re-Use Commit the circus on. ME heale wil elopery noiore haformaid be part of the
Meeting Schedule:
The next meeting of the Building Re-Use Committee will be held on Monday October 6, 2014 in the
Town Hall. Committee meeting will continue on a 1° and 3"d Monday meeting schedule.
Board Comment:
Ms. Lantry presented an article from the Worcester Telegram re: marketing of the surplus Public
Library in the town of Dudley.
Public Comment:
Mr. Londa told the Committee that 2 Portable Classrooms will be released by the School Department
so they can be sold and removed from the building site.
The meeting adjourned at 7:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Deborah J. Seeley
Member, Building Re-Use Commitee
