===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Building Re-Use Committee
Meeting Minutes 3/3/2014
PsoM
Members Present: Jamie Toale, Damon McQuaid, Dave MacDonald, Jee Levine, Ron Albert, Mike Makin
Members Absent: Deb Seeley, Todd Blake, Pat Slattery, Steve Raboin,
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order March 3, 2014 @ 7:03 PM
Public Comment:
None
Minutes Approval:
Minutes from 12/2/13 approved as submitted
Current Business:
New goals set out by the BOS
-Develop detailed plans for exploring the real estate or development possibilities of the properties
we identified as surplus. This would prioritize the plans based on timing, achievability, cost and
potential revenue and would include input from other groups in town (i.e. Historical Commission,
Planning Board etc.)
-Coordinate cross-organizational work on records management, office relocation, and building
renovations required for a consolidation of town functions.
(The committee has decided that while developing a record management system is of importance
to the town it is beyond the purview and expertise of the committee to take on that task.)
- Estimate expenditures and anticipated revenue or cost offsets to fund future plan(s)
Discuss continued participation of current members and recommendations for replacement or additional
members.
The Committee has decided to at minimum maintain its' 9 member charter and if there is enough
interest from the public would entertain growing to 11 members. The committee will seek new
members with an emphasis of individuals with backgrounds in realty, and construction as well as
lawyers.
Pat Slattery, Joe Levine, and Todd Blake have resigned from the committee. Mike Makin will replace
Todd Blake as School Building Committee Rep. The Historic Commission will be asked to designate
a replacement for their representative, Pat Slattery. The committee will advertise to replace Joe
Levine as citizen at large.
Meeting Schedule:
April 7, 2014 @ 7:00pm in Town Hall
Board / Public Comment:
None
Meeting Adjournment:
Meeting Adjourned @ 8:33pm
