===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TIM A IS
RL
Minutes
Town of Lunenburg
Building Re-Use Committee
A meeting of the Building Re-Use Committee was held at Town Hall on Monday, November 3, 2014 at
6:30 p.m. Present were committee members Jamie Toale, Dave MacDonald, Mark Erickson, Deb
Seeley, Rebecca Lantry, Dave Matthews and Damon McQuaid. Also present was advisor, John Londa.
Announcements:
Chairman Toale asked that a member be temporarily assigned to take minutes due to the heavy meeting
schedule and workload Damon is currently managing. Ms. Seeley volunteered, Mr. MacDonald made a
motion to appoint Ms. Seeley, Mr. McQuaid second, passed unanimously. Ms. Seeley will coordinate
agendas and minutes with the Chair.
Public Comment:
None trom the Committee. Matthew Alison, Planning Board liason to the Agricultural Commission,
was recognized and asked the Building Re-Use Committee to consider a Public Market as a potential
re-use of a town-owned building. He cited MGL Ch. 40, Sec. 10 and noted that such a use would be in
keeping with Lunenburg agricultural history. Mr. Matthews suggested that Mr. Alison and the
Agricultural Commission prepare a business plan for the vision of what a Public Market would be. Mr.
Toale said the plan would be included in a future Building Re-Use Committee agenda when the plan is
complete.
Minutes:
Minutes were approved and signed for meetings on July 7, June 18 and June 2. March 3° minutes
require the signature of Mr. Mackin.
Current Business:
Mr. McQuaid gave an update on the development of a Village Zoning By-Law. He said that the new
Land Use Director, Adam Burney, is reviewing the current draft and making some suggestions re:
architectural protection districts, the current Demolition Delay By-Law and other areas of the draft
Ms. Lantry noted that Mr. Burney will be attending the next Historical Commission to discuss these
ideas. Mr. Toale noted the commitment of the Building Re-Use Committee to historical preservation.
Mr. McQuaid said that the new by-law will probably be presented at the Spring Town Meeting.
The Committee discussed the current status of the T.C. Passios School and the Brooks House which are
still under review by the School Building Committee. Mr. Erickson is the Committee liason to the
School Building Committee and will give updates as the discussion moves forward by the School. At
this time, the Building Re-Use Committee will take no action or have further discussion on these
buildings until the status is determined by the School Committee and Planning Board. Mr. Toale noted
that Jack Rodiquenz, DPW Director, was on the agenda to discuss ideas on the TCP but did not attend.
Mr. Toale updated the committee on the work he and Mr. Erickson have done to develop cost/revenue
assumptions on the various buildings which will need to be adjusted as building discussions continue
and will remain as an agenda item going forward. Mr. Toale noted that the information on Annual
Maintenance and Utility Costs of the building need to be updated for the most current projections
included in the FY plans. He also asked the committee for input on what shoukle feldeD istheILED
DEC 30 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
MARK OARINE
===PAGE 2===
FY16 Capital Plan which is due on December 19th. After discussion, the committee asked that 2 line
items be requested: 1. Painting of the Town Hall building facade (Mr. Toale will contact Mr.
Rodiquenz for estimates) and 2. Funding for a Feasibilty Study for Town Hall Renovation (Mr.
MacDonald will prepared estimated cost). The committee also discussed the potential for Federal or
State grant funding for the Town Hall renovation due to it's historic significance. Ms. Lantry will
research grant opportunities. Both of these items will be included on the Dec. 1' agenda for discussion
Old Business: - None
Meeting Schedule:
After polling the committee on preferred meeting dates and times, Mr. Toale said that the committee
meetings would remain on the 1° and 35d Monday of the month at 6:30 p.m at Town Hall or as needed.
The next meeting of the committee will be held on Monday, December 1° at 6:30 p.m at the Town
Board Comment: - None
Public Comment: - None
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Deborah J. Seeley
Member, Building Re-Use Commitee
