===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Building Re-Use Committee
Minutes: October 28, 2015
Page 1 of 3
Committee Members Present:
(Jamie Toale, Ron Albert, Dave MacDonald, Mark Erickson, Mike Mackin, Rebecca
Lantry)
Also Present:
(Charlie Hay, John Londa)
The Lunenburg Building Re-use Committee met at the Ritter building on 10-28-15 @
6:30 PM to review the progress made by Tappe Associates, Architects.
No announcements from the Chair
No Public comments by the Committee
No Public comments by the public
No minutes were presented from earlier meeting(s)
Chairman, Jamie Toale reported that PAC currently uses classroom space at the Passios
and that a Sketch Drawing of their space was forwarded to Charlie hay. Jamie made
further comment that their (PAC) future space needs were projected to be 3,000-4,000
s.f.. Charlie Hay reported that he plugged in the existing 930 s.f.
Jamie asked Mr. Charlie Hay begin his update.
Mr. Charles Hay, a principal in the firm, made a presentation to the Committee which
summarized his firm's work to date on the Architectural Feasibility Study.
CH architectural program for town space is in the 20,000 s.f. area, adding in the PAC
needs.
CH advised that his office along with their consultants did a walk through of subject
buildings, noting that Ritter and Passios are in best conditions, with Primary School
===PAGE 2===
Town of Lunenburg
Building Re-Use Committee
Minutes: October 28, 2015
Page 2 of 3
needing structural attention along with complete MEP replacement/updating of systems.
Town Hall has moderate structural concerns as well....MEP not so bad, but needing
significant work.
Tappe Associates created graphic blocks of program and overlay to existing floor plans
of subject sites and reported:
• Town Hall shortfall, using two floors
• Ritter shortfall, but could add on
• Primary School shortfall by 7,000 s.f., but could add up to 18,000 s.f. of space
along with room for adequate parking, but needs most work
• Passios is 57,000 s.f. is larger than needed, but could be downsized
Ritter:
Could get an addition with yielding of a site total of 13,000 s.f. max., which could be
augmented with use of Town Hall. Parking would be a concern with a tight site and
difficult handicapped access, as building is on multiple levels, has limited
Meeting/Hearing Room space....also a concern for Village District setbacks
Primary School:
Could provide adequate parking and achieve compliance with architectural program
needs if building was fully restored, requiring a significant amount of work and cost.
Some discussion about a one or two story building additions and cost differentials for
structural, finishes, etc., Gym could be used Meeting/Hearing Room
Passios:
Portion of building could be removed, leaving approx. 35,000 s.f (more than present
architectural Program needs. Portion of removed building could be new green space
while still providing for new and adequate parking if used as Town Hall
Facilities... parking could also be shared off-hours with Library of new School.
Plan would keep existing Cafeteria for use as medium sized Meeting Room
Town Offices space of 20,000 s.f also includes space for School Administration.
Access to PAC space, if included in reuse planning, could be separated from rest of
Town Offices and could work well if needed to be separated from Town Hall Offices.
===PAGE 3===
Town of Lunenburg
Building Re-Use Committee
Minutes: October 28, 2015
Page 3 of 3
Following was noted by CH:
• Small Conf. Room - 15 People
• Medium Conf. Room - 30 People
• Hearing Room
- 100 People
Others issues at Passios include abatement, interior modifications, electrical system,
roof system and access to individual Town Offices from common Corridor. Building
could possibly be used as emergency shelter and it gets a 'thumbs-up' from a
Community Asset Point of View.
Next Building Reuse Committee meeting was confirmed for 11-24-15.
In meantime, CH will continue refining planning process as well as make relative cost
comparisons, concentrating on cost analysis of preterred option. CH Will also prepare a
'Matrix' to show relationship between CRITERIA COST/PROGRAM.
It was agreed amongst members of the Committee that good publicity regarding release
of CH work was important. Reuse Committee Members to address FAQ's.
There was some discussion around possibility of bringing on new member(s) to Reuse
Committee, particularly someone with Marketing experience. Another possibility was
to restructure the Committee from the present 9 to 7 member group to better
accommodate future meeting quorums.
Closing Comments:
Public - John Londa...School Committee will release Passios/Brooks House by August
2016..... will not budget for operating costs.
Motion to adjourn made by Mark Erickson, seconded by Mike Mackin. Meeting
adjourned at 8:15 PM
Respectfully Submitted,
Ronald Henri Albert, AIA
(Recording Secretary for Meeting of 10-28-15)
