===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes for the Building Reuse Committee
Meeting Date: June 15, 2015
1. Attendance: Rebecca Lantry,_
Jaime Tole,
Mike Mackin LON
Ron Albert, RAA late: Damon McQuaid
2. Meeting opened: 6:36 pm
3. Call for public Comment: None
4. New Business:
Three requests to the Building reuse have been made:
1. Lunenburg Brownie Troop 1194, in pursuit of their quest key which is to connect to the proper
people to have a discussion on a future proposal have made a request to have a discussion
about turning the T.C. Passios School site into a public/ community garden. With the hope that
school children and adults can learn about gardening. A letter will be crafted in response to their
request and will be a consideration for future use. This will also be forwarded to the Lunenburg
Agricultural Commission.
2. FLACC - they sent request to Building Reuse that they are still interested in the use/purchase of
the T.C. Passios School. They want to know how long they can expect to rent in the near future: 1
years, 2 years.
Discussion: How is the proper disposal of this property going to happen? Will the school
committee need to vote to release this property to the Town. Does the Town, need to declare it
surplus? Then, what is process for the Town to collect bids on the property.
What is FLACC need for the property? Are they trying to consolidate all their operations on one
site, as rumored?
It was felt they need to put together a RFP.
3. Rep. Benson office would like to coordinate an introduction between us and Twin City
Development Corp. There interest is in the old Primary school. Discussion was had as to what
Twin City Development Corp? Research on the internet, stated they were a non- profit
organization which facilitates this regions development. B.F.Brown school conversion project
was cited as one of their projects.
4. Minutes for meeting 4/6 and 4/18 were approved
5. Deb Seeley has resigned from this board. Thank you letter is to be sent for her service. Motion;
discussion, approval: all approved.
6. Old Business:
a. School Committee Representative Mike: brought a new map of the T.C. Passios property
line as voted on by the school committee at their last meeting (handout of map).
Initial discussion: was some dismay at the loss of 40 parking spot. Questions were asked: Can
we market this as is or do we need to request another readjustment. Final discussion: We asked
for line and now we have it. If a buyer stated he would pay more for more acreage. We could go
back to the school committee, with this. If, it is not marketable? We could go back.
===PAGE 2===
b. Brooks Property: Lot line bisects the Town drainage system for the Library parking lot. It was
felt that an easement for the Town to maintain the drainage system for the Library lot would
have to be included in Brooks's house sale proposal.
c. Memorial Drive: Needs to be extended as new public way. What mechanism will be needed
to do this?
d. T.C. Passios School is scheduled to will remain in its present function until August of 2016.
Kerry Spiedel: gave a presentation on request for qualification. There has been a change in State
Law since 2012, MGL 7 C. All contracts have to be in contract terms. All people have to know
what they are bidding on in plain terms. A standard contract form will come from Town
Counsel, the contract will have a fixed price, the law states specific advertising requirements, 2
weeks of local advertisement and the central register. The bidder have one month to reply after
the document is out.
Cad drawings have been done to help visualization of projects for bidders for the old Primary
School, Town Hall and the T.C. Passios School. CAD drawings of the Brooks's house and Ritter
Building, are soon to follow.
Target Date for proposals will be to have them in by the end of the year.
School Committee will need to know plan for T.C. Passios School by December, so that the
opportunity to use contingency money for the demolition of the T.C. Passios can be used or
forfeited.
7. Next Meeting: proposed for July 6, 2015 Town Hall at 6:30 Pm and July 20, 2015 7:00 pm
8. Information: Portable Classrooms at the schools are now deemed excess, looking for new
owners off site. Contact: John Londa
9. Motion to Adjourn: 8:19 pm
