===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Building Re-Use Committee
Meeting Minutes 12/21/2015
Members Present: Jamie Toale, Ron Albert, Damon McQuaid, Mike Mackin, Mark Erickson, Dave
MacDonald,
Members Absent: Rebecca Lantry,
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order December 21, 2015 @ 6:32PM
Public Comment:
None
Minutes Approval:
None
Current Business:
Review draft on feasibility report by Tappe Associates.
Charlie Hay of Tappe Associates presented the draft proposal and estimated costs. The
conceptual cost models show the option of renovating the Passios building to be the
nost cost effective option at 4.7 million dollars.
Charlie shared that he has visited several other school building to town hall reuse
projects in Massachusetts and he feels that the school building type in general serves
as a good platform for a town hall use.
The committee asked that Tappe clarify in their graphic that the 2.7million dollar town
hall renovation line item does not accomplish the space needs of the program set forth.
Ron Albert made some suggestions on the graphics of the draft package to help images
read better
Dave MacDonald asked that the committee review the RFQ to verify that all of the
services requested had been met.
Discuss and begin to develop presentation to BOS
The target date for a presentation to BOS would be Jan 19th
M. Mackin to outline a public outreach program
M. Erickson to compile a list of Q & A's
The consensus was that a building project would take about one year from approval of
funds to ground breaking.
Discuss the use of the Passios Building by FLAC
The recommendation of Tappe Associates was that the cost vs. return of operating and
maintaining additional square footage is not favorable. The consensus of the board was
that our charter was to reduce capital expenditures on building maintenance and that
tinding a space for FLAC was not part of our program. Given the timeline of a potential
construction project it is likely that FLAC could occupy the building for at least another
Meeting Schedule:
January 19*7:30AM at Town Hall
Meeting Adjournment:
Motion to adjourn by Dave MacDonald, Second Mark Erickson, all in favor.
Meeting Adjourned @ 8:50pm
