===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         960 Massachusetts Ave 
Marianne Mascari, Member                         Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Vacant, Member 
    
Agenda 
Ritter Building - Lower Meeting Room 
Wednesday, December 17, 2025 
7:00pm 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and it 
will be broadcasted over Lunenburg Public Access channel and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel. This 
meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in- 
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to 
the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless 
otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make 
plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://
us02web.zoom.us/j/2878544906?omn=81997522003 , or from a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475- 4499 and 
enter Meeting ID: 287 854 4906. If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail 
address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting, and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. V otes may be taken as a 
result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
1.Open Meeting 
2.Board & Public Comment 
3.Facilities Director Updates 
4.Fitzgerald Field and Beach House signage - discussion on replace and/or repair current signage.  
5.Skate Park updates and discussion on next steps and updates on Right of Entry agreement (may 
include votes). 
6.Marshall Park - discussion and decision on next steps 
7.General Policy and Form Discussion - prioritize what needs to be created and or edited. 
8.Chair Updates 
9.Open Space committee updates 
10.Approval of minutes 
11.Upcoming Meeting Dates 
12.Other Business matters that may legally come before the Commission not known at the time of 
posting. 
13.Correspondence and Announcements 
14.Board and Public Comments 
15. Adjourn
