===PAGE 1===
February 4, 2010 
 
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 
 
At 6:03 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, 
William Murray, Mary Gould, Dawn Cacciotti, and Deborah Christen. Also present was 
Town Manager K. Speidel. 
 
On-going Business: 
 
1. Public Comment: None. 
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: None. 
      3.   Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications:  None. 
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: The minutes of the January 7, 2010 
meeting were reviewed and approved (William made motion, Mary seconded).  
 
Current Business: 
 
1. Next Changes for the Salary Admin. Bylaw – Salar y Schedule: Chair explained 
proposed New Salary Schedule for changes to S.A.P. General discussion of 
various step increases for jobs/positions under S.A.P. – Changing number of 
step increases and less grades (making it more concise). Town Manager will look 
at jobs and grade placements with Chair to create a more accurate projection for 
cost increase with this proposal. Mary will research average hours for the call 
firefighters and give the information to Chair. Chair led a general discussion of 
proposed change to sick leave benefit (buy back @retirement, maximum days, 
etc.). Town Manager and Chair will look at chart (after Mary updates it) of sick 
leave benefits for various town employee contracts. 
2. LPC Year Report for inclusion in Town Report: Wi lliam made motion (Mary 
seconded) to accept the report for calendar year 2009 as presented by Chair. 
3. Articles for next Town Meeting: Continued to nex t meeting. 
4. Job Description Format, Project: Tabled until ne xt meeting. 
5. Discussion on and Review of Progress on LPC Init iatives: Tabled until next 
meeting.  
6. Next Meeting Agenda:  Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel 
Actions/Approvals, Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications, and Review of 
Previous Minutes) and Current Business to include Job Description Format, 
Articles for next Town Meeting, Changes to Bylaw – Salary Schedule, Calendar, 
and Next Meeting. 
 
The next scheduled meeting will be on March 4, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg 
Public Library. The meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Deborah Christen, Secretary 