===PAGE 1===
March 4, 2010 
 
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 
 
At 6:01 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, 
William Murray, Dawn Caccotti, and Deborah Christen. Absent was Mary Gould. Also 
present was Town Manager K. Speidel. 
 
On-going Business: 
 
1. Public Comment: None. 
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: None. 
      3.   Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications:  
•  New Hire: Fire Department – Charles Lowe, Call EMT , Grade 16, Step 1, 
15.79/hour, effective 10/30/09. 
•  Reclassification: Fire Department – Charles Lowe, FF/EMT, Grade 17, 
Step 1, 16.66/hour, effective 3/1/10. 
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: The minutes of the February 4, 2010 
meeting were reviewed and approved (William made motion, Dawn seconded).  
 
Current Business: 
 
1. Next Changes for the Salary Admin. Bylaw – Salar y Schedule: Chair shared 
proposed New Salary Schedule for changes to S.A.P. General discussion of  of 
the database that the Chair & Town Manager have worked on  to estimate the 
costs of the new changes. The Fire & Police Chief are currently under contract by 
will be included in the cost estimates. Sewer, Planning Director, Chief Admin. 
Assistant, and DPW Director are currently under contract; however, the plan is to 
put these positions in the S.A.P. when the contracts are expires. The tentative 
plan is to have a work session with the Board of Selectmen on March 30, 2010 at 
5:30 or 6:00 p.m. A motion was made (Dawn  - 1 
st , William – 2 nd ) to accept the 
proposed salary changes for major jobs in Fire, Council on Aging, Library, and 
Administration; passed unanimously. 
2. Job Description Format, Project: Dawn shared pla n to update job descriptions to 
include a checklist for supervisor and employee. 
3. Discussion on and Review of Progress on LPC Init iatives: William made a motion 
(seconded by Dawn) to update all LPC forms by changing CAFO to Town 
Manager; passed unanimously. Calendar of Events was tabled until next 
meeting.  
4. Next Meeting Agenda:  Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel 
Actions/Approvals, Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications, and Review of 
Previous Minutes) and Current Business to include Job Description Format, 
Articles for next Town Meeting, Calendar, and Next Meeting. 
 
The next scheduled meeting will be on April 1, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg 
Public Library. The meeting adjourned at 7:15 p.m.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Deborah Christen, Secretary 