===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
September 2, 2010
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
At 6:00 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, William Murrayi,
Doreen Noble, and Deborah Christen. Absent was Dawn Cacciotti. Also present was Laura Williams
from the Selectmen's office.
On-going Business:
1. Public Comment:: None.
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: None.
Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications: Cable Access wants to create job under Salary
Administration Plan (SAP) - money will come out of the cable. Town Manager wants to move
this forward - Grade 4, $11.98 minimum. Deb made motion to accept Lunenburg Public
Access TV Coordinator position as interim job description (attached) under SAP at a Grade 4 -
$11.98/hour minimum - Doreen seconded and the motion was approved
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: Minutes of May 13,2010 (William 1sl, Dawn 2^°); June
10, 2010 (Deb 1s, Robert 21d); and August 5, 2010 (Doreen 1s', Deb 2'ª) meetings were
approved.
Current Business:
1. Job Description Format, Project: Dawn was sending to Town Manager - Chair will pick up the
information and complete the project.
2. Use of Vacation time before it has been accrued. Chair spoke to Town Manager - she was
confused and will speak to Payroll and get back to the LPC.
3. Nomination and Election of LPC positions. The following positions were approved
unanimously: Chair - Robert Rand (Deb 1"'
", William 21ª); William Murray - Vice Chairman
(Robert 1s" Doreen 21°); and Deborah Christen - Secretary (William 15, Doreen 2"").
4. Discussion of and Review of Progress on LPC Initiatives for 2010 to 2011: Attached motion
made by William (Doreen 2n°) and approved unanimously
5. Results/discussion Open Meeting law workshop: LPC following already with the exception of
attachments now need to be included with the minutes.
6. Increases for employees under SAP for this fiscal year: Chair suggested that Town Manager
send memo to all department heads concerning increases under SAP this fiscal year as the
Chief Administrative Assistant acting for Town Manager believes there are no more salary
increases for this fiscal year.
7. Next Meeting Agenda: Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel Actions/ Approvals,
Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications, and Review of Previous Minutes) and Current
Business to include Job Description Format, Discussion and assignment of LPC initiatives for
2011, and Next Meeting Agenda.
The next scheduled meeting will be on October 7, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Public Library.
The meeting adjourned (Deb made motion, William seconded) at 6: 4040 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Deborah Christen, Secretary
