===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
January 6, 2011
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
At 6:05 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, William Murray,
Doreen Noble, and Deborah Christen. Also present was Town Manager, K. Speidel
On-going Business:
1. Public Comment: None
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: Chair received personal actions from Fire
Department without the Town Manager's signature. Town Manager will check into this.
3. Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications: PAC - Last month the Town Manager sent requests for
two positions - Lunenburg Public Access (Production Manager, Public Access Cable
Coordinator). Discussion about the original request (one position at Grade 4, not Grade 8).
Chair is requesting more information prior to approval at the higher grade then accepted at the
September LPC meeting. Jillian Fluet, Part-time Library Assistant, Grade 4, 8.12/hour,
effective November 13, 2010
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: Minutes of December 2, 2010 (Doreen 1s!, William 21ª)
meeting were approved.
Current Business:
1. Job Description Format Project: Tabled until next meeting.
2.
Discussion on, Review of Progress and Assignments of LPC Initiatives: Town Manager -
discussion of Human Resources position - wants to put L. Williams on Human Resources as
Payroll coordinator, who was doing part of the human resource position, is currently on
administrative leave.
3. Letter to Selectmen on LPC work: Chair expressing concern about lack of support in human
resources to assist LPC on reviewing Salary Administration Plan Bylaws, Job Descriptions,
Processes & Procedures, etc. Chair will draft letter with a copy to Finance Committee for the
next meeting.
4.
Next Meeting Agenda: Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel Actions/Approvals,
Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications, and Review of Previous Minutes) and Current
Business to include Job Description Format Discussion, Discussion on, Review of Progress
and Assignments of LPC Initiatives for 2011, Letter to Selectmen and Next Meeting Agenda.
The next scheduled meeting will be on February 3, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Public Library.
The meeting adjourned (Deb 1st.
"William 2*°) at 6:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Deborah Christen
Deborah Christen, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 07 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
