===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
April 7, 2011
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
At 6:07 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, William Murray,
and Deborah Christen. Also present was Town Manager, K. Speidel. Absent was Doreen Noble.
On-going Business:
1. Public Comment: None.
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: None.
3. Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications: Question about part-time dispatchers being paid the
same rate as full-time dispatchers. After discussion, PC voted to classify part-time dispatchers
the same as full-time dispatchers.
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: Minutes of March 3, 2011 (Deborah 151, William 2'a)
meeting were approved
Current Business:
1. Job Description Format Project: Chair reviewed and explained what has transpired in this
process. Laura Williams will be staff support for the job description project. This project is on
hold until after Annual Town Meeting (May 7, 2011).
2. Discussion on, Review of Progress and Assignments of LPC Initiatives: Change in Town's
website; training on April 20" & 21st. Chair will attend this training.
3. Chair is requesting an updated employee spread sheet to cross check step increase requests
for the next fiscal year. Town Manager is requesting change in step for Council on Aging
Director; COA and Board of Selectmen support this request in change of initial step for COA
Director.
4. Next Meeting Agenda: Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel Actions/Approvals,
Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications, and Review of Previous Minutes) and Current
Business to include Job Description Format Discussion, Discussion on, Review of Progress &
Assignments of LPC Initiatives for 2011 and Next Meeting Agenda.
The next scheduled meeting will be on March 5, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Public Library.
The meeting adjourned (Deb 1st
", William 2°°) at 6:43 p.m.
Respectfully submitted
Deborah Christen
Deborah Christen, Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 07 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
