===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
October 6, 2011
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
At 6:04 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, William Murray,
Barbara Reynolds, and Deborah Christen. Also present was Laura Gustus (Selectmen's Office).
On-going Business:
1. Public Comment: None.
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: Chair received clarification from Town Manager in
regards to the salary adjustment for Dispatchers Hippler and Lekaditis - Step 4 at that grade
- the same as union starting pay (same job - same pay). Chair asked for data base for
salaries from other towns.
3. Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications: None
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: Minutes of September 1, 2011 (Barbary 18, William 20d)
meeting were approved.
Current Business:
1. Job Description Format Project: Barbara has job descriptions from other communities, many
communities did not respond. Barbara will send out second request with Town Manager's
letter. Town Manager will be available on Fridays to meet with Chair and Barbara to gather
data, decide format, etc.
Discussion on, Review of Progress and Assignments of LPC Initiatives: Chair would like to
separate list from on-going initiatives.
• Job Descriptions - Barbara & Chair will assist
• Personnel Evaluations - Chair concerned with process - would like some feedback for
employee movement within the S.A.P.; Chair explained there is a form, but that it is
not used consistently. Chair will send current copy to Barbara.
• Salary Admin. Plan - on-going initiative
• LPC web pages - Chair wants all to check online and give feedback.
• Meeting Schedule & Calendar of Events - delete (Chair will put on website).
• Salary Admin. Plan - would like to move dates on cover to Appendix and give a brief
summary of changes (i.e., change in sick leave benefit, etc.)
• Discipline Policy - on-going initiative
• Grievance - deleted
Chair will update and send to members for approval.
3. Next Meeting Agenda: Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel Actions/Approvals,
and Next Meeting Agenda.
The next scheduled meeting will be on November 3, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Public
Library. The meeting adjourned (Deb 1"
William 25d) at 6:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Deborah Christen
Deborah Christen, Secretary
