===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Personnel Committee:
Cheryl Valera, Chairman
Scott Chase, Vice-Chairman
Lin Vickery, Secretary
Deb Christen, Member
Nancy Forest, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Minutes December 4, 2014 (revised)
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Lunenburg Library, Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA
Kathy Herrick, Cheryl Valera, Scott Chase, Lin Vickery, Kerry Speidel, Deborah Christen,
Nancy Forest, and Jamie Toale
Absent:
1. Kathy Herrick, Town Clerk, called the meeting to order at 6:11 p.m. and confirmed that all who were
present had been sworn in to office as members of the committee. Kathy called for nominations for the
positions of Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary, Deb Christen nominated Cheryl Valera as Chair, Nancy Forest
seconded, vote for Ms. Valera was 5 for and 0 against. Cheryl Valera nominated Scott Chase as Vice Chair,
Deb Christen seconded, vote for Mr. Chase was 5 for and 0 against. Deb Christen nominated Lin Vickery as
Secretary, Cheryl Valera seconded, vote for Ms. Vickery was 5 for 0 against. Once this was accomplished
Kathy left the meeting.
1. No public comment.
2. Agenda Items:
At the Board of Selectman meeting on 10/21/14 they approved the following proposed charge of the
Personnel Committee:
To review and make recommendations, with regard to the Committee/Board/Commission, recruitment and
appointment process for all Town non-elected groups. Including the following:
• Recruiting volunteers and building a "talent pool". Process to cover communication tools, "career
day" like forums with sitting boards, PSA's on public access, booths at town wide affairs, etc.
• Administering applications (Talent Bank forms, Re-Appointment "forms", resumes, waiting lists...
• Scheduling informational and selection interviews (with existing Chair, members, appointing body,
etc.)
• Consulting on decision with selecting body (if requested)
• Notification process (successful candidates, unsuccessful candidates, committees Press, etc.)
• Orientation of new committee members including an "on-boarding" process
• Performance/Progress review process for sitting boards and members
In addition, the Committee is charged with the following:
• Jointly administering salary administration plan for all non-union employees (equity between union
and non-union is biggest issue). Union employees get reviewed every year and non-union
employees get reviewed every other year.
• Review pay scale & job descriptions (have not been reviewed in 4 years)
• Review benefits for both groups
• There are a total of 10-12 employees 50 on-call fire fighters and 15-20 different positions. There is
almost zero attrition. Need to figure out a way to make employees aware of their total
compensation.
• Look at comparable towns, but it varies for different comparisons. Committee needs to access Mass
Municipal Association data. Kerri has a list of committees that were used in benchmarking.
• Review Salary Administration By Law - Kerri Spidel will send this to Cheryl. Any changes will need
to be reviewed by the committee and approved at Town Meeting. July 1" is the anniversary date.
Committee appointments happen July 15t
/FY2015/Personnel Committee/Minutes - 12-4-2014 docx
10
===PAGE 2===
Personnel Issues:
•
Employees feel that there are inequities
•
The step progressions are a big deal
• COLA in some but not completely uniform
• Perception is unions get more, i.e. vacation time, no wait on time off.
• Compare non-union clerical vs. union clerical
• Language around full-time and part-time needs to be reviewed. For example town employees are
now 36 hours per week due to budget cuts and are now considered part-time because they do not
work 40 hours. However, amount work has not decreased. As a result of them being reduced to
36 hours a week, their benefits are pro-rated and there is no overtime available.
• Department heads are exempt but still hourly
3. The committee approved the minutes of the last Personnel Committee meeting. Kerry Speidel will ask Town
Clerk for the date minutes were approved.
4. Next Personnel Committee meeting will be February 6, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at the Lunenburg Library
5. February 6* agenda items are:
Develop a meeting schedule for the year
b. Review the Board of Selectman proposed charge for the Personnel Committee
Review salary administrative plan & By Law
6. Adjournment: Scott moved to adjourn the meeting; Lin seconded his motion, and the committee voted 5-0
to adjourn at 7:50 pm.
Minutes Respectfully Submitted on January 6, 2015 by Lin Vickery
Minutes were corrected at March 16, 2015 Personnel Committee Meeting
/FY2015/Personnel Committee/Minutes - 12-4-2014.docx
2 ol
