===PAGE 1===
 /FY2015/Personnel Committee/Minutes – 7-23-15.docx   1 of 2 
 
 
          
Town of Lunenburg  
Personnel Committee: 
Cheryl Valera, Chairman 
Scott Chase, Vice-Chairman 
Lin Vickery, Secretary 
Deb Christen, Member 
Nancy Forest, Member 
 
             
Minutes July 9, 2015  
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148  
Meeting Posted:   Yes 
Location: 
  Lunenburg Library, Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA 
Present: Cheryl Valera, Lin Vickery, Nancy Forest and Jamie Toale 
Absent:  Scott Chase and Deb Christen 
 
1.  Cheryl Valera, Committee Chair, called meeting to order at 6:35 p.m. Reviewed minutes of April 
2nd  & May 14 th  meetings.  There was no June meeting.  Lin will send to Town Clerk for 
publication. 
2.  No old business 
3.  No public comment 
4.  Agenda Items: 
a.  Continuation of discussion regarding Salary Administration Plan 
/head2right Town has web-based performance system, NEO.gov.  It has performance review demo. 
/head2right Cheryl reviewed her suggested changes to the Salary Administration Plan.  Suggested 
changes include: 
•  Cheryl reviewed her vacation cost analysis.  Only 2 people are affected positively.  
One is the COA who is retiring.   
•  References to vacation time change from days to hours.   
•  Full-time defined as minimum of 36 hours.  Anyone with less than 40 hours will have 
time-off pro-rated.  Vacation time has to be paid out at time of termination 
regardless of termination reason. 
•  Section I proposed change: “If Personnel Committee doesn’t have enough members 
to conduct business, the Town Manager shall have the authority to Administer the 
Salary Administration Plan.” 
•  Section 7 proposed change:  Should state when the Salary Administration Plan gets 
reviewed and how often. 
•  Discussed moving step increases to July 1 st  for employees who are on anniversary 
cycle.   
b.  Review paid time off analysis that Cheryl prepared 
c.  Wasn’t able to review annual step increase that Scott was preparing because Scott wasn’t 
able to make this meeting.  Cheryl will request Scott to present analysis next meeting. 
d.  Personnel Action Forms:  COA acting Director approved, Firefighter EMTs approved. 
5.  August agenda items are: 
a.  Review cost analysis of doing an annual step increase for town employees prepared by Scott  
b.  Personnel Action Forms 
6.  Adjournment:  Nancy moved to adjourn the meeting; Lin seconded the motion, and the 
committee voted 3-0 to adjourn at 8:15 pm.  
 
Minutes respectfully submitted on July 23, 2015, by Lin Vickery 
