===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Personnel Committee Attendees:
Scott Chase
RECEIVED & FILED
Dave MacDonald
Sue Andrews
Erik Arnold
OCT 2 5 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Also Present:
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager
Rhonda Lisio
Jamie Toale
Meeting called to order at 6:30pm with all attendee's present.
Old Business
Minutes of the July 16, 2018 meeting were presented for approval. Heather noted that the
format of the minutes should have more specific details regarding motions and approvals. The
themes noted were accurate, but needed revisions to these items before being put into the
record. Heather will work with Sue to revise them for submission at next meeting.
Motion by S. Chase: Revise July 16, 2018 minutes to be presented at next needing for approval.
2nd: E. Arnold Vote: All in Favor
Policy Review Request: As noted in previous meeting, the SAP for the Vacation Policy needed
to be updated to reflect changes approved by the Board of Selectman. The committee
reviewed draft changes at the July 16, 2018 meeting. The final refreshed documents are not
yet available for review at this meeting.
New Business
General Discussion: Nancy outlined an administrative adjustment she was able to implement to
eliminate the lack of flexibility in the vacation tracking, that managed how and when employees
were eligible to use the vacation they had accrued. This lack of flexibility was discussed at the
last Personnel meeting, noting the negative impact it had on employees. The committee had
===PAGE 2===
Lils yeds need.
valous dilemlatives were reviewed by the cornmittee, ike dong lewer
positions that were more generally reflective of the common roles. Also examining any
compatible union roles that had already been negotiated or just applying a mathematical
algorithm adjusting the grid to retlect standard pay adjustments approved in similar towns or
businesses. Heather to refresh scope of work and get clearer cost estimates to present at the
next meeting.
General Discussion: Jamie Toale reviewed a goal that the Board of Selectman had taken on for
this fiscal year to improve the Volunteer Boards Alignment. With many open slots on the
various town volunteer boards, the BOS recognized that an effort was needed to refresh the
alignment of these boards. This might include improved training, better performance
management of volunteers, refreshing recruiting practices, creating an improved process to
manage the placement of volunteers once they submit a request for consideration to
volunteer, etc. Jamie asked if the Personnel Committee might join him in working on this
important goal. The committee members did not take on any specific tasks, but agreed that the
goal was worthwhile and some members of the committee might be willing to partner on the
various tasks.
General Discussion: The committee determined that the next meeting will be held September
10, 2018 at 6:30pm.
Motion by S. Chase: To adjourn the meeting at 7:55pm
2nd: E. Arnold Vote: All in Favor
