===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Dave MacDonald, Sue Andrews, Erik Arnold, Michael Fiorentino
Also Present:
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits Cordinator/Risk Manager
Jo McLaughlin, Manager, Local Public Access Cable
Steve Walker, Chair, Public Access Cable
Meeting began at 5:33pm with all attendee's present.
Open Meeting Request - Public Access Cable Leadership
Jo McLaughlin and Steve Walker from the Public Access Cable group requested assistance in
establishing a Grade Level in the SAP for their previously approved role of Production Assistant.
They had reviewed salary survey materials available for these types of roles and proposed a
Grade 9 and included the information that it would be a 32 hour position they would include in
the Towns benefits programs. The committee had a general discussion of all the various
options and comparisons with existing town roles, consideration for budget issues and benefit
costs and agreed with the proposal as outlined. The new role will need to be added to the SAP,
so will need to be presented at the next Town Meeting for approval, but funds are currently
available and recruitment will begin.
Motion by D. MacDonald: Approve proposal from PAC Leadership to establish a role for
Production Assistant with an SAP Grade Level of 9. Understanding that the new role must also
be presented at the next Town Meeting to formally add to the SAP.
Second: M. Fiorentino Vote: All in Favor
Old Business
Sue Andrews presented the Minutes of the July 22, 2019 meeting for approval.
Motion by D. MacDonald: Approve the July 22, 2019 minutes as submitted
Second: E. Arnold Vote: All in Favor
New Business
As it is the time for the Personnel Committee's leadership to be reassessed, a discussion was
held to determine if the board assignments would be changed. As our Chairman was not in
===PAGE 2===
years with part time assistance, broad training initiatives and with other towns' assistance. This
is a problem in all towns of our size. The role had dramatically changed over time with many
regulatory requirements for certifications, and continually changing code changes make the
recruitment pool continue to dwindle. This change is driven by these important market
changes. It is her hope that by adjusting the grade and salary range we will attract a more
permanent candidate.
Motion by S. Andrews: Adjust the current SAP Grade of the Building Commissioner from SAP
Grade 14 to SAP Grade 16. Understanding that the new role must also be presented at the next
Town Meeting to formally add to the SAP
Second: D. MacDonald Vote: All in Favor
General Discussion
The group continued to discuss the issue of the Massachusetts Minimum Wage changing each
year, even though municipalities are not obliged to follow that ruling. The committee generally
supports following the Minimum Wage ruling, like the Lunenburg School Department has done,
but would like to examine the impact of this decision on the SAP structure, and how the
comparisons of job responsibilities of those impacted might differ. We also would review the
best option for implementing such a plan. There are very few employees impacted by this
change.
As the committee considered the new roles and SAP Grade Level changes approved at this
meeting as well as the last meeting, N. Forest suggested that we examine the current role of
the Tax Collector in light of these other changes. Will be reviewed at next appropriate
committee meeting.
Next Meeting - H. Lemieux requested we meet again before the next Board of Selectmen's
meeting as she had a Business Commissioner candidate she was close to selecting and may
need approval for a Grade Step adjustment in the pay offered, that would need our support
and BOS approval. Target Date: Tuesday, September 3, 2019 6:30pm
Motion by S. Andrews: Adjourn the meeting at 7:15pm
Second: D. MacDonald Vote: All in Favor
Meeting Adjourned 7:15pm
