===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Dave MacDonald, Sue Andrews, Erik Arnold
Also Present:
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits Cordinator/Risk Manager
Jo McLaughlin, Manager, Local Public Access Cable
Steve Walkel, Chair, Public Access Cable
Jack Rodriquenz, Director, DPW
Meeting began at 6:06pm with all attendee's present.
Old Business
Sue Andrews presented the Minutes of the April 22, 2019 meeting for approval.
Motion by D. MacDonald: Approve the April 22, 2019 minutes as submitted
Second: E. Arnold Vote: All in Favor
New Business
Open Meeting Request - Public Access Cable leadership
Jo McLaughlin and Steve Walker from the Public Access Cable group requested assistance on
how to proceed in the recruitment and hiring of two new employees into the group. They had
petitioned for these roles in their recent Budget request. That request had been approved at
the recent Town Meeting. They wanted assistance is identifying grade level and hiring
requirements from the Personnel Committee. We guided them to meet with both the Town
Manager and with the Payroll and Benefits Manager to establish the level and determine hiring
process.
Reclassification - LifeGuard Positions
General Discussion on the current levels of the life guard roles in the SAP. They are among the
few roles in Grade 1. The salary guidance of this job grade at step 1 is below the current
Massachusetts minimum wage and in 2020 will only further erode as the MW will be adjusted
upwards again. Although exempt from this Mass wage and hour provision, the committee
believes that the town should voluntarily insure that all employees as paid at least the
minimum wage set by the state. The discussion was set up to review the life guard roles, but
===PAGE 2===
Review - Parks Director Role
Jack Rodriquenz, the Director of Public Works, presented the job description for the newly
approved role as Parks Director. He was seeking quidance on that role and the grade level
appropriate to the responsibilities. He submitted the request as a Grade 9. The committee
reviewed the statement of duties and examined those against comprable other roles in the
SAP.
Motion by S. Andrews: Move to approve request for the Parks Director to be slotted as a Grade
9 on the SAP, as submitted. Understanding that the budget that was approved will cover the
costs of this assignment, at that level.
Second: E. Arnold Vote: All in Favor
Review - Council on Aging Director
Heather Lemieux presented a request to consider upgrading the COA Directors role from the
current Grade 11 to a Grade 14. All other town directors with comprable leaderhip and budget
responsibilities, that report into the Town Manager, are all Grade 14. The group determined
that the responsibilities of this essential role, continue to expand, with grant applications, and
broader program expansions, which previous employees in that role had not taken on.
Motion by D. MacDonald: Move to approve the request for the COA Director to be upgraded
from the current Grade 11 to Grade 14. Request that a new Job Description be written and
with the understanding that this change will require a request for additional funds in their 2020
budget to be approved at Town Meeting.
Second: E. Arnold Vote: All in Favor
Review - Assistant Town Manager/Human Resources Director
Heather Lemieux presented the job description of the newly approved role as Assistant Town
Manager/HR Director. She was seeking quidance on that role and the grade level appropriate
to the responsibilities. She submitted the request as a Grade 16. The committee reviewed the
statement of duties and examined those against comprable other roles in the SAP.
Motion by D. Macdonald: Move to approve request for the Assistant Town Manager/HR
Director to be slotted as a Grade 16 on the SAP, as submitted. Understanding that the budget
that was approved will cover the costs of this assignment, at that level.
Second: S.Andrews Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Meeting Adjourned 7:37pm
