===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  July 15, 2020 - Zoom Meeting 
Attendees: 
Sue Andrews, Dave MacDonald, Erik Arnold (Vice Chair) 
Also Present;  Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, 
Donna Fortune, visitor 
Meeting began at 5:40pm with all attendee’s via Zoom; Eric Arnold presiding as Chairman 
Old Business 
Minutes April 13, 2020 meeting reviewed 
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept the minutes as presented:  Second S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
Note:  D. MacDonald introduced Donna Fortune to group.  Donna is interested in this 
Committee's work and wanted to attend as visitor to determine ongoing interest, and 
potentially join the Committee. 
J. Belliveau also advised committee members that Mike Fiorentino would not be attending this 
meeting, and had resigned as a member of the Committee. 
Ongoing Business 
J. Belliveau presented a Personnel Action Form for the Committee's review.  The position of the 
Principal Assessor had been both put out on an RFP, as well as advertised as a Town job 
opening.  No formal bids were submitted for the RFP. The Town was fortunate to have several 
qualified candidates apply for the role.  A selection had been made and J. Belliveau was seeking 
approval for hiring the primary candidate at the approved Grade 15, but as a step 4, given the 
17 years of experience and the knowledge and skills of the candidate.  There is remaining 
surplus budget funding for this action.  The Committee reviewed the submission and verified 
that no other employees held comparable roles.  Both the Town Manager and the HR Director 
supported this action.  Special Note:  The Grade of this role at a 15 will be approved at the next 
appropriate Town Meeting as noted in previous minutes. 
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept the recommendation for the Principal Assessor candidate to 
be placed at a Grade 15 step 4   Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
New Business 
D. MacDonald noted that S. Chase would be leaving this committee after a long association 
with the team.  He has been instrumental in the ongoing work of this group and served as its 
===PAGE 2===
Chairman for some time.  D. MacDonald requested that the Town Manager send a letter of 
appreciation from the town to S. Chase thanking him for his service. 
 
Motion:  S. Andrews:  Adjourn meeting 5:55pm 
Second:  D. MacDonald   
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 
 
 
 