===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present:
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director
Jack Rodriquenz, Director DPW, Kayla Wright, Recreation Director, Jo McLaughlin, Manager LAT
Meeting began at 5:30pm with all attendee's present.
Old Business
Minutes from Nov 7, 2019, Oct 24, 2019, Sept 3, 2019, Aug 27, 2019 reviewed
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept all the minutes presented; Second: E. Arnold
Vote: All in Favor
New Business
No Personnel Action Forms requiring review
Job Description Review:
Jo McLaughlin presented revised job descriptions for two roles for the LAT, Senior
Videographer, and Videographer, both were included in the current budget. These roles
created as current interpretation of how town utilizes contractors has changed. These roles
previously were contractors, but due to regulatory issues they will now be employees. There
are employees in these roles currently utilizing 1099's. The group also reviewed how these
roles should be graded in the SAP. Levels of responsibilities, leadership and skills needed were
discussed and compared with current roles in that same organization.
Motion: D. MacDonald: Approve Videographer role as a Grade 3 and submit for final approval
at next appropriate Town Meeting. 2nd: S. Andrews Vote: All in Favor
Motion: D. MacDonald: Table discussion on Sr. Videographer role, job description will be
amended to include project leadership responsibilities and brought back to committee;
Second: S. Andrews Vote: All in Favor Note: It is anticipated that these changes will
support reconsideration as a Grade 6 at future review.
Kayla Wright presented two revised job descriptions, Beach Director and Life Guard. As the
new Director of Recreation, she felt the roles needed updating due to changes in certifications
required for these roles. Neither required a Grade level change.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: D. MacDonald: Approve Water Safety Instructor role as a Grade 4 and submit for final
approval at next appropriate Town Meeting. 2nd: S. Andrews Vote: All in Favor
Discussions:
Seasonal DPW Laborer/truck driver - Jack Rodriquez reviewed a recent regulatory assessment
regarding the use of contractors' vs employees for town roles. The current understanding
relates to anyone that is utilizing town equipment for their work. Current interpretation is that
these types of roles should be town employees not contractors, or vendors. This is a change to
current practice for snow removal contractors. This role and any others that fall into similar
roles as intermittent workers now need to be considered employees and on the town payroll.
The committee recommended that the Union contract be reviewed as these would not be
considered union employees, as regular DPW workers are, and if necessary reviewed with
Union Leadership to insure compliance and support for changing the roles going forward. Once
that review completed, and a job description created the role would be brought back to
committee for final review and approval.
State Minimum Wage - Julie Belliveau is reviewing how the Town might manage a change to
SAP salary grades that support all employees having a starting wage that is consistent with
Massachusetts State Minimum Wage. Currently the step grid has several lower grade roles
where step one is less than minimum wage. She will propose alternatives at next meeting.
Position Rating Guide - Julie Belliveau is also reviewing a more formalized position rating guide
to utilize for town roles. Current process is more informal utilizing a review that examines roles
as they compare to other roles in responsibilities, skills needed, experience and accountability.
She will continue to explore and present options at a future meeting.
Motion: E. Arnold: Adjourn meeting 7:00pm
Second: S. Chase Vote: All in Favor
