===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes: August 31, 2021 – 5:00 p.m. Town Hall, 2nd Floor 
 
 
Attendees: 
Dave MacDonald, Donna Fortune, Erik Arnold, Joanna Bilotta by phone  
 
Missing Member:  
 
Susan Andrews 
 
Also Present:   
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Barbara 
Lefebvre, Nancy Forest, Robert Oliva, DPW Director by phone 
 
Meeting began at 5:13 pm with all attendees present 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the July 22, 2021 meeting reviewed 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes as presented  
Second: D. MacDonald 
 
All in favor 
 
No Old Business 
 
New Business 
New Hire Form 
The Temporary Recreation Director was presented to the Committee by J. Belliveau, Assistant 
Town Manager/HR Director and R. Oliva, DPW Director. The purpose of this role is to fill in for 
the current Recreation Director that is out on medical leave. The new hire was recommended to 
start at Step 4, Grade 9, the same grade and step as the current Recreation Director. 
 
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept recommendation from the HR Director and DPW Director to 
approve the new hire at a Grade 9, Step 4. 
 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
All in Favor 
 
 
HR Director update – Communication with SAP employees   
Discussion was had amongst the Committee members, Town Manager, Assistant Town 
Manager/HR Director and two SAP employees addressing how SAP employees are notified about 
Personnel Committee meetings. H. Lemieux discussed utilizing the Subscription Service provided 
via our website. E. Arnold recommends that an email be sent to everyone about the Subscription 
Service. If the agenda topic pertains to a particular person or group, send them the agenda and an 
invite to attend the meeting. 
 
===PAGE 2===
J. Bilotta made a motion to accept the use of the Subscription Service and meeting invites when 
related. 
  
Second D. MacDonald 
All in Favor 
 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to adjourn the meeting at 5:48 p.m. 
Second:  D. MacDonald 
 
All in favor 
 