===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes: July 22, 2021 – Zoom Meeting 
 
 
Attendees: 
Dave MacDonald, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune, Susan Andrews 
 
Also Present:   
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director 
 
Meeting began at 5:03 pm with all attendees present, J. Bilotta, Committee Vice-Chair presiding 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the June 14, 2021 meeting reviewed 
 
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept and approve the minutes as presented  
Second: S. Andrews 
 
Roll Call Vote:   All in favor 
 
No Old Business 
 
New Business 
New Hire Forms 
A variety of Board Clerk/Secretary assignments were presented and discussed by committee. 
These roles were previously approved by the Select Board and budgets authorized. These are all 
part time assignments that are called upon to assist the respective boards as they meet to take 
minutes of the meeting.  
 
Board Clerk/Secretary for Finance Committee – current town employee for the Council on Aging 
will take on this role. Employee is currently at Step 3 Grade 6. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept recommendation from the HR Director to expand this current 
employees role to include these new responsibilities.   
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Board Clerk/Secretary for Capital Planning Board, Parks, Stormwater Task Force – a new hire 
was identified to take on this role, the experience of this person warranted the role being approved 
at Step 2 Grade 6. 
 
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept recommendation from the HR Director to make this hire at this 
recommended SAP rate. 
Second:  S. Andrews   
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Reorganization of Personnel Committee:  The committee examined the current organization to 
identify how it might need to be reorganized in the upcoming year.  As all committee leaders 
agreed to continue their roles, the group identified the following: 
 
Chairman:  Eric Arnold 
J. Bilotta made a motion to accept the nomination of E. Arnold as the Personnel Committee 
Chairman.   
Second:  D. MacDonald 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Vice Chairmen:  Joanna Bilotta 
D. MacDonald made a motion to accept the nomination of J. Bilotta as the Personnel Committee 
Vice Chairman:  Second D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Clerk:  Susan Andrews 
D. MacDonald made a motion to accept the nomination of S. Andrews as the Personnel Committee 
Clerk.   
Second J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Other business noted:  D. MacDonald asked that at the next meeting the HR Director provide and 
update on communication with town employees about Personnel Committee meetings and what 
topics impact them. 
 
 
Motion by D. MacDonald to adjourn the meeting at 5:19 pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 