===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  February 24, 2020 - Ritter Memorial Bldg. conference room 
Attendees: 
Scott Chase (Chair), Sue Andrews, Dave MacDonald, Erik Arnold 
Also Present: 
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director 
Jo  McLaughlin, Director, Local Public Access  
Sue Doherty, Director, Council on Aging 
Meeting began at 5:30pm with all attendee’s present.   
Old Business 
Minutes from January 27, 2020 reviewed  
Motion by D. MacDonald to accept the minutes presented; Second: E. Arnold 
Vote:  All in Favor 
Ongoing Business 
Job Description Review: 
Jo McLaughlin presented a revised job description for the LAT, Senior Videographer, as 
discussed in the January 27, 2020 meeting. Revisions included several additions outlining  
project leadership responsibilities, which better reflect this senior role. 
Motion:  D. MacDonald:  Approve SR Videographer role as submitted as a Grade 6 and submit 
for final approval at next appropriate Town Meeting.  2nd:  S. Andrews  Vote:  All in Favor 
New Business 
With the above completion of all LAT job descriptions, we are now able to complete the plan to 
transition of these contract employees into town employee roles.  Each employee will be 
placed in the appropriate SAP job role and put into the step closest to the current wage they 
receive, in order to put them appropriately in the SAP salary grid.  New Hire forms on each of 
these LAT employees were completed and signed by the committee members.   
New Hire Form - Dietary Aide - This role is a SAP Grade 2, and the initial steps are currently 
below the Massachusetts minimum wage.  As the committee has previously acknowledged that 
although a municipality may hire below that wage, they support Lunenburg having a practice of 
not employing anyone below the states minimum wage.   
Motion:  E. Arnold:  Approve the new hire as a Grade 2 step 5 in order to insure this hire would 
be above Mass Minimum Wage.  2nd:  S. Andrews  Vote:  All in Favor 
===PAGE 2===
Discussion: 
Principal Assessor - This role is now being outsourced and there is no need to change SAP role 
at the present time.   
Seasonal DPW Laborer/Truck Driver - Heather reported that, per this groups previous 
instructions to the Director of the DPW, he and Heather have reviewed the need to make a 
change to the current contracted work done by roles like this with the union representatives to 
insure they support changing this specific role to a town employee role.  The union understands 
the recent need to change the status and supported this change.  This impacts specific 
temporary roles like snow plowing, where previously non-town employees provided the 
temporary service utilizing town equipment.  The state mandates that utilizing town equipment 
can only be done by town employees.  A job description will be prepared and presented at next 
meeting to determine SAP Grade level. 
State Minimum Wage - Julie Belliveau presented several salary grade level alternatives that 
support all employees having a starting wage that is consistent with Massachusetts State 
Minimum Wage.  She included additional alternatives to change the current SAP which has 20 
grade levels, down to only 10 grade levels.  This would require some "banding" of current roles, 
but the committee agreed that it was a reasonable alternative to the current longer grid. More 
discussion will take place as she continues to refine the work. 
Position Rating Guide - Julie Belliveau also lead a discussion regarding a more formalized 
position rating guide to utilize for town roles. She provided an example of such a rating system.  
The committee will continue a review of this topic in future meetings as Julie explores the 
options available and considers the impact on our current town process. 
Next Meeting Target:   Monday, April 13, 2020 5:30pm 
Motion:  S. Andrews:  Adjourn meeting 6:30pm 
Second:  D. MacDonald   Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 
 
 
 