===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes: January 24, 2022 – Zoom Meeting 
 
 
Attendees: 
Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand; Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present:   
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director; Atty. Marc Terry, Town of Lunenburg, Labor 
Counsel; Susan Doherty, COA Director; Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Robert Oliva, DPW 
Director;  Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager; Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk 
Manager; Pauline Roy, Outreach Coordinator 
 
Meeting began at 5:04 pm with all attendees present, E. Arnold Committee Chair presiding 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the December 13, 2021 meeting reviewed. D. Fortune noted that her absence from that 
meeting should be noted on the minutes. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta made a motion to accept minutes as presented, with the addition of indicating 
D. Fortune as absence. 
Second: W. Bertrand 
 
Roll Call Vote: Donna Fortune abstained as she had not been present at that meeting, all other  
Members voted in favor of acceptance. 
 
No Old Business 
 
New Business 
Changes to SAP 
Marc Terry was introduced to committee and he outlined the work that had been undertaken to 
update the Salary Administration Plan by-law. This was done to better align it to the Town Charter 
and also to adjust several areas that were in conflict with other town groups, where these areas had 
changed as they were amended per the group’s contract changes.  He reviewed where his input 
merely clarified areas where the SAP outlined practice, but were outside their charter, as well as 
several areas that were updated to deal with changes driven by practices in other town groups. 
 
The Town Manager and HR Director had met with the SAP employees with the draft of proposed 
changes and the reasons for those changes.   
 
The information was quite extensive and a discussion with all parties in attendance was helpful in 
identifying several areas that needed more thoughtful discussion.  Issues like the actual scope of 
the Personnel Committee, that this group of employees felt they had no recourse if there were 
disagreements; that other groups may have negotiated for other changes when making changes like 
adding a new holiday to their holiday schedules; and the same issue as it relates to holiday accruals 
and longevity payments.  There was also a discussion on how potential layoffs would be managed 
and by whom, as well as issues with definition of “time-worked” for the purpose of consideration 
of overtime.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Eric proposed that with so many issues to be addressed that the committee members review the 
material, and notate the areas they felt needed a more through review, so that the committee could 
begin to more thoroughly examine the most significant changes at the next meeting 
 
Review Timetable for SAP compensation review 
Julie reviewed history of recent dis cussions that would make changes to the Salary Grid . The 
Personnel Committee had previously discussed starting the grid at minimum wage and condensing 
the 20 grades into a more reasonable pay grid. 8 steps might be better managed with less levels and 
less steps. She also outlined that she has requested pay data from comparable commu nities and is 
awaiting responses.  She will continue work on amending the grid, to be presented at future 
meetings. 
 
New Position/Amended Current Position 
Susan Doherty , COA Director,  outlined changes that had taken place during the last two years, 
driven by the pandemic and the need to provide different services as on site services changed.  The 
previous role of Meal Site Manager did not broadly include management of budgets, food selection 
and prepara tion, meal manage ment, food quality standards, inventory management and kitchen 
leadership.  She asked the group to consider adding a new role of Assistan t Meal Site Manager to 
the SAP.  She also outlined that she would update the current Meal Site Manage r’s job description 
to better include those duties that had become essential to the role. The new role better defined 
what the old work was of the Meal Site Manager.  These changes would take place as the budgets 
for the new year would be presented for approval. 
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the proposed job description changes to the current Meal Site 
Manager including the new SAP grade level of Grade 6 ; submit at the annual Town Meeting for 
Final Approval. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept the proposed  new job description for an Assistant Meal Site 
Manager as a Grade 3; submit at the annual Town Meeting for Final Approval. 
Second: S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Public Comment 
Visitors expressed gratitude for being able to p articipate in these important discussions. Donna 
Fortune expressed thanks for the long years of service Dave MacDonald provided for this 
committee. 
  
The group identified the importance of continuing to meet regularly to complete the work of 
updating the SA P and completing the compensation analysis needed to provide to Town Meeting 
for adoption.  Next meeting, Monday January 31, 2022 at 5:00 via Zoom. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to adjourn the meeting at 7:18 pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
 
 
 