===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  August 15, 2022    
Zoom 6:30pm 
Attendees:   
Erik Arnold, Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, 
 Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager,  
 
Absent: Joanna Bilotta 
 
Call to Order: 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:33pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from committee, nor from the Public 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the July 25, 2022 meeting were not available for review. 
 
New Business 
J. Belliveau presented a request for new hire appr oval for a  Facilities Director, reporting to the 
Town Manager. The candidate has 10 years of related experi ence as a Facilities Director. This is a 
new role, approved at the r ecent Town Meeting. The recommendation is to offer Grade 16 Step 6, 
to support his extensive background.   
 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director and hire the candidate at 
Grade 16 step 6. 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
J. Belliveau presented a proposal for the Classification and Compensation Study, we have been 
exploring. There was only one proposal submitted to her from outside consultants. The outline was 
reviewed and the committee support ed the proposal. The consultant has worked as a n Assistant 
Town Administrator/HR Director previously, and is the owner of the consulting company.  She has 
successfully managed similar projects. J. Belliveau  will continue to examine her references.  H . 
Lemieux and J. Belliveau agreed they would explore the town’s budget to see if the $9,300 mig ht 
be funded from existing accounts.  If not, the funding would need Town Meeting approval.   
 
Motion by E. Arnold to move forward with project plan, acquiring references and exploring budget 
options. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from committee, nor from the Public 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Next Meeting: 
Proposed the next scheduled meeting be September 12th, with meeting beginning at 6:30pm to 
accommodate member’s needs.  
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:45pm by S.Andrews 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 