===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  March 2, 2021 – Zoom Meeting 
 
Attendees:   
Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand,  
 
Not in Attendance:   
Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: 
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy 
Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk Manager, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager 
 
Meeting began at 5:03pm with all attendees present, E. Arnold Committee Chair presiding 
 
Public Comment: 
No comment from either committee or the public attendees. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the Feb 16, 2022 meeting reviewed 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes as presented 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business: 
J. Belliveau presented a new hi re form for hiring a new principal assessor.  She recommended that 
we consider hiring this candidate at Grade 15 Step 3, due to his extensive experience which 
included some familiarity with Lunenburg.  He had previously worked on a project in town as a 
consultant.  His resume was reviewed and his experience discussed.   
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to hire the presented  
Principal Assessor at Grade 15 Step 3. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
 
Group continued to review and assess the recommendations for changes to the Salary 
Administration Plan by-law.  Section 18 covers Paid Holidays.  There were several areas that the 
legal counsel recommended be examined.  He also noted that the state had mandated that towns 
recognize Juneteenth as a holiday and all town halls would be closed on that day.  That would 
require adding Juneteenth as an additional holiday in Lunenburg.  A lengthy discussion covered 
===PAGE 2===
the issue of how holidays that fall on Saturday should be managed, given that the town hall no 
longer was open on Fridays and therefore employees were not scheduled to work the day before a 
Saturday holiday.   
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to amend the language of paragraphs A, B, & C to reflect that all employees 
who are eligible for paid holidays would receive a Floating Holiday if a designated holiday fell on 
Saturday. 
Rewording: 
Paragraph A: Employees shall receive paid holiday leave on the day the Town observes the 
holiday based on the base hourly rate of the employee for the number of hours the employee is 
regularly scheduled to work on the day of the week on which the holiday is observed. 
Paragraph B:  Eliminated  
Paragraph C:  Employees shall receive a floating holiday for any holiday that falls on a day that 
they are not regularly scheduled to work.  Holiday leave will be granted on the day the Town 
observes the holiday, when possible.  If the holiday falls on a Saturday, it will be observed on the 
preceding Friday.  If the holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.  
If an eligible employee is required to work on the day the Town observes the holiday, they will be 
entitled to a Floating Day which has to be used within 30 days, by agreement of the supervisor and 
employee.  If the department head determines that holiday leave cannot be granted, the employee 
shall receive payment at one and one=half times the base hourly rate for all hours worked on the 
holiday, in addition to his or her holiday pay.  Final determination is to be made by the Town 
Manager. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to add Juneteenth as an observed Paid Holiday to the Lunenburg SAP bylaws 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The recommendations for several areas that were to clarify the Section 19 Sick Leave were 
generally acceptable, with the exception of adding language that implied employees might be 
required to see a town appointed doctor.  This would have been a new requirement and the group 
generally felt was not necessary.   
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the recommended changes by Legal Counsel in Paragraph A, B, 
and C as noted, and amend recommended changes  in Paragraph D, to remove the 
recommendations suggested regarding seeing a town appointed doctor, leaving the previous 
sentence regarding providing a doctors note . 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The recommendations for Section 20 Personal Leave were generally acceptable with the exception 
of reducing the number of days employees were eligible for.  The recommendation to reduce the 
number to offset the addition of Juneteenth was reviewed and the committee did not support this 
change. The group also clarified the expression of what Personal Leave time was, by 
recommending the timing be noted as days rather than hours. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to amend Paragraph A noting the entitlement of personal leave be 3 days 
rather than 24 hours, and that other recommendations in Paragraph A, B, and C be accepted. 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The recommendations for Section 22 Bereavement Leave were discussed at length.  The group 
identified what other groups within the Town did with this benefit and ultimately determined that 
they felt that both the length of time allowed and the types of relationships supported in this 
section needed to be updated. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to amend this entire section and update it to the same language that the 
Clerical Group now has in place, with the number of days and the relationships covered changing 
to the same benefit. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The recommendation from Legal Counsel was to entirely eliminate Section 27 from the SAP 
bylaws.  This is because Discipline is clearly outlined in the Town Charter and does not fall into 
the purview of the Personnel Committee.   
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the recommendation to eliminate Section 27 from the SAP by laws. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The recommendations for Section 28 Definitions was generally acceptable, with just an expansion 
of types of benefits noted in Paragraph C and the reference to the Benefit Formula noted in 
Paragraph D.  Those words seemed to need clarification as to what was included in such a formula.  
We determined it was referencing just vacation or sick leave, so decided we should note it that 
way.  The statement of the use of a “Benefit Formula” might also be utilized on other sections, so 
any change in the use of this term should be reexamined.  (Section 17 and Section 19, perhaps 
others) 
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the recommended changes to Paragraphs A, B, E, F, and G of the 
Definitions Section 28. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Motion By J. Bilotta to amend the changes in Paragraph C to add Holiday in the explanation of 
what benefits were covered, and in Paragraph D amend the term “Benefit Formula” to 
Vacation/Sick Leave Formula. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
===PAGE 4===
The recommendation for Schedule A was to update all references to the Board of Selectman to 
Select Board.  This would also be updated anywhere it might be referenced throughout the SAP by 
laws. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept the recommendation for Schedule A or any other area in the SAP by 
laws to change the reference to the Board of Selectman to Select Board. 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
There was a discussion about whether the listing of actual job titles in the SAP be reviewed and 
any roles that were no longer utilized be removed.  We determined that due to the formal approval 
of jobs by the Select Board, and the possibility that any of those roles might be filled at another 
point in time, that it was best to leave all job titles in place. 
 
Public Comment 
 
Both the committee members and the public attendees agreed that much had been accomplished 
during this meeting with productive collaboration by all..   
 
Next Meeting: 
We would begin reviewing the salary grid recommendations and review a final SAP by law 
document that covers all the approved changes. 
Wednesday, March 9, 2022 Zoom Meeting 5:00pm  
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to adjourn meeting at 6:34pm 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 