===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  June 6, 2022    
Town Hall, 2nd floor 6:30pm 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk 
Manager, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager, Pauline Roy, Senior Center; Deborah A.H. 
Christe n, resident; Tom Alonzo, Selectperson 
 
E. Arnold opened the Meeting at 6:33pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
Their was a recommendation that in the future submissions like the one we just did with the SAP 
refresh, with so much being changed…should have broader and earlier distribution so town 
employees might be better able to review material. The current submission did not allow that time 
so did not feel transparent. 
There were no comments from committee 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the May 2, 2022 meeting were reviewed. 
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept and approve the minutes of the May 2, 2022 meeting as 
presented  
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor with S. Andrews abstaining as she was not at meeting. 
 
Ongoing Business: 
T. Alonzo came to address the committee and other attendees, after reading the memo that Select 
Board members received that represented some disagreement with how the SAP approvals at the 
Town Meeting were managed.  He was not representing the Select Board, but his own thoughts on 
how the particular warrant issues were handled.  He understood there was some tension on the part 
of some members of the Personnel Committee and the changes that were adopted at the Town 
Meeting.  The two significant changes regarded the awarding time off for Juneteenth, and how 
holiday time off was managed, given the nature of holidays falling on weekends and their 
reassignment to other days.   
He expressed his appreciation on the extent of the work that the committee had done to update the 
SAP, acknowledging that ultimately the residents of the town did not support the committee’s 
recommendations on these two items, which is the appropriate review and approval process.  The 
committee’s recommendations on all the other changes were accepted.   
The committee members asked his guidance on the plans to review and perhaps upgrade the SAP 
job descriptions, making fewer levels and perhaps different step progressions in an effort to 
===PAGE 2===
simplify the grid.  He acknowledged it sounded like a good project, and the Select Board was 
certainly open to simplifying things, but cautioned that his experience in matters similar to this was 
that employees resisted this type of change, lacking trust in any process that changed their pay or 
status.  If the committee could gain the employees understanding and acceptance, he thought the 
Select Board would be favor of it. 
 
The committee members also asked about recommendations that would be acceptable to the Town 
regarding the percentage increase to the SAP level grid.  As the committee had only submitted one 
year’s recommendation for 2023, we would not need to address 2024 and 2025. 
 
J. Belliveau reviewed that she and H. Lemieux had discussed how a review of job descriptions and 
job grades might be done.  A review like this may require an outside consultant. Any funding 
would need town meeting approval. 
 
Public Comment 
There was no additional public comment  
 
Next Meeting: 
The group agreed to meet again Monday July 11, 2022, at 6:30pm in person. 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 7:34pm by D. Fortune 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 