===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  September 12, 2022    
Zoom 6:30pm 
Attendees:   
Eric Arnold, Susan Andrews, Donna Fortune, Joanna Bilotta, Wendy Bertrand 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager 
 
E. Arnold opened the Meeting at 6:37pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from committee, nor from the Public 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the September 1, 2022 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes of the September 1, 2022 meeting as presented 
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business 
J. Belliveau presented a request that a  new Administrator IT Job Description to be added to the SAP. This 
currently will be a part -time role and her recommendation is to place the role in Grade 8 which is 
comparable to other Administrative Assistant roles in the SAP. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta  to accept the recommendation of the HR Director and add this Admin istrator IT role 
into the SAP at Grade 8. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
J. Belliveau indicated the DPW Directors job description was not yet completed.  It will be reviewed at a 
future meeting. 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the Public.  J. Bilotta expressed her concern that she did not approve of the 
outcome of the last Town Meeting, as it related to the updated SAP and our groups recommended changes.  
She asked if she could address this at the next town meeting.  She had not realized that Eric had made the 
presentation regarding those recommendations at the Town Meeting and spoke to the issues that both the 
select board and the town attendees had regarding several items.  She was also not aware that both Tom 
Alonzo and Michael-Ray Jeffreys had both communicated with our group after that meeting regarding the 
quality of the work done and the understanding that the towns voters then had the ability to accept the 
recommendations or seek alternative recommendations, which they did for a few items.   The rest of this 
committee accepted that the appropriate processes were followed at the town meeting. 
 
Next Meeting: 
Proposed the next regular meeting be October 3rd, with meeting beginning at 6:00pm to accommodate 
member’s needs. J. Belliveau expressed she might need a quick approval meeting September 15, 2022, and 
targeted 5:15pm for that zoom call. 
 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 7:01pm by S. Andrews 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 