===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  November 7, 2022    
Zoom 6:00pm 
Attendees:   
Eric Arnold, Susan Andrews, Donna Fortune, Joanna Bilotta, Wendy Bertrand 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Mary Beth Bernard, HR Consultant, Barbara Lefebvre, 
Sewer Business Manager, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Nancy Forest, Payroll and 
Benefits/Risk Manager  
 
E. Arnold opened the Meeting at 6:00pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from the committee or public 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the September 26, 2022 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes of the September 12, 2022 meeting as presented 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
J. Belliveau updated the group on the Classification and Compensation Study Project.  She advised that she 
and the Town Manager had located funding ($9,300) within the current fiscal budget to cover the cost of 
this project, thus removing the n eed to take the request to Special Town Meeting . She presented the 
proposal that has been accepted from Mary Beth Bernard, an HR Consultant with broad experience in 
municipal com pensation planning. Mary Beth a ttended the meeting and gave an overview of how t he 
project would proceed.  She responded to various queries about her specific plans and the tight timing of 
this project.  The timeline begins with an official start 11/28/22.  She had confidence that the project would 
be completed on time with a 2/15/23 completion date. 
 
There were some discussions on timing of these meetings, how emergency needs should be managed and 
how to ensure full cooperation and attendance  at regularly scheduled meetings, which are targeted as the 
first Monday of each month.  
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the committee or the public. 
 
Next Meeting: 
As needed and regular meeting December 5, 2022 6pm 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:37pm by W. Bertrand 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 