===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  March 14, 2023    
Zoom 6:00pm 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrew, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Manager, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach 
Coordinator 
 
Absent: Joanna Bilotta 
 
Wendy Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:05pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were not comments from the public, nor comments from the committee. J. Belliveau noted that J. 
Bilotta continued to attempt to join the zoom meeting, but was unable to complete the connection. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Amended Minutes of the March 6, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes of the March 6, 2023 meeting as presented 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
J. Belliveau outlined the current status of the HR Consultant project, and noted the material she had sent out 
the previous day and her concerns that the delays that had been experienced were a concern and asked if we 
would be better served to just postpone, and not rush an incomplete project before the Select board and for 
approval at Town Meeting, but rather propose a COLA for FY24 and move to complete the project by fall. 
D. Fortune offered that we might just move the job descriptions portion to the fall.  W. Bertrand expressed 
frustration that we needed to get this done as we had discussed it for the last year.  How that might be 
accomplished was discussed and when we should meet again, perhaps in person if that was possible. 
As the town was currently in a severe snowstorm and most participants did not have power and the HR 
consultant was not able to be on the call, all agreed continued effort to complete be project for Annual 
Town Meeting should be made.   
 
New Business 
J.  Belliveau presented a pay rate request to the selected candidate for Recreation Director at Grade 9 Step 3 
due to her education and experience.  She noted that the town has been recruiting for this role since August 
2022 and had few qualified applicants.   
Motion from S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to offer the candidate for 
Recreation Director the role as a Grade 9 Step 3. 
Second D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
There was no public comment, nor comments from the committee 
 
Next Meeting: 
Target:  Wednesday, March 22, 2023 6pm Zoom 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:55pm by D. Fortune 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 