===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  September 6, 2023    
6:00pm – Ritter Building - Hybrid 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present:   Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Nancy 
O’Rourke, Payroll & Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager, Bill Bernard, DPW Director 
 
Absent: Joanna Bilotta 
 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:07pm with members noted in attendance. 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from committee members. B. Bernard questioned the type of assessment system 
that the committee was using, as he felt the weighting of certain job characteristics did not fairly represent 
how work was actually valued.  He had done some research and felt there were better tools available. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the August 23, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes from the August 23, 2023 meeting 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
W. Bertrand made a motion to move the discussion of the Vacation Leave Accrual to later in the meeting as 
we expected J. Bilotta to arrive later, and she would be able to participate in the discussion 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business 
The committee reviewed the following jobs utilizing the position classification rating and guidelines and 
assigned points as noted:  The Ex. Asst. to Town Manager and Select Board was not yet available; Facilities 
Director (750 pts); Land Use Director (750 pts.); Network Administrator (630 pts.); PACC Manager not yet 
available; Payroll/Benefits Coordinator and Risk Manager (510 pts.); Principal Assessor (605 pts.); 
Treasurer/Tax Collector (555 pts). 
 
Ongoing Business 
Vacation Accrual Issue 
S. Andrews reviewed her discussion with Nancy O’Rourke regarding how vacation accrual was determined 
across the various employee groups within the municipality.  Nancy has been responsible for this benefit 
during her 12 years with Lunenburg. The current method of accruing has been in place throughout her 
tenure.  The only group that is not treated within the current accrual practice would be any employee that 
receives a formal contract, predominately the Town Leaders, Police/Fire Chiefs and a variety of employees 
in the school department. All other employees share the same accrual process, and mostly the same vacation 
amounts.  There were just a few practice variations, but none created any disparity between groups.  Each 
year there are a small number of employees that have changes to their hours of work that allow for 
increased accruals.  The current practice is for the accruals to be earned throughout the year and then 
become available for use the following July.  Employees that change hours, then correctly accrue the newer 
calculations and per policy, they will be available to be used the following July.  As J. Bilotta had not been 
able to attend this meeting, the group agreed to discuss again at the next meeting.   
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
The group attempted to identify the next meeting date, and targeted September 20 at 6:00pm.   
S. Andrews made a motion to adjourn at 8:11pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 