===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  September 26, 2023   Revised 
5:00pm – Ritter Building - Hybrid 
In Person committee Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present:   Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, 
Thomas Gammel Police Chief, Bill Bernard, DPW, Paula Bertram Sewer Business Manager, Amanda 
Moore, Administrative support Police Department,   
On phone:  Patrick Sullivan Fire Chief, Pauline Roy, COA 
 
Absent: Joanna Bilotta 
 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 5:05pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from committee members, Paula Bertram spoke about her concerns that the 
previous leadership in the sewer department had created the job description for the Sewer Business 
Manager and the current manager and she had changed the role and the previous JD no longer represented 
the current active role.  The committee agreed that the new leadership should adapt the JD as needed and 
present it to the HR Director for review. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the September 6, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept and approve the minutes from the September 6, 2023 meeting 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
S. Andrews made a motion to move the discussion of the Vacation Leave Accrual to the next meeting as J. 
Bilotta was not in attendance and the group wanted her to be able to participate in the discussion 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business 
Job Description Review 
Chief Sullivan presented an amended job description for the Public Safety Head Clerk he had worked on 
with the HR Director to update it to include what the current responsibilities are.  This role was identified in 
the SAP but no previous JD was located.   
 
S. Andrews made a motion to accept the recommendations of the HR Director to establish this job 
description for the P.S. Head Clerk Coordinator in the SAP, pending final approval by the Select Board. 
Second D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Chief Gammel presented an amended job description for a Reserve Police Officer that he had worked on 
with the HR Director to update it to include what the current responsibilities are.  This role now had a 
variety of certifications that had been added to update it to current requirements. 
W. Bertrand made a motion to accept the recommendations of the HR Director to amend this job 
description for the Reserve Police Officer in the SAP, pending approval by the Select Board. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Heather Lemieux presented an amended job description for the Executive Assistant to the Town Manager 
and Select Board that she had worked on with the HR Director to update it to include what the current 
responsibilities are.   
 
D, Fortune made a motion to accept the recommendations of the HR Director to amend this job description 
for the Executive Assistant to the Town Manager and Select Board in the SAP, pending approval by the 
Select Board. 
===PAGE 2===
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 
Job Description Rating 
The committee then reviewed the following jobs utilizing the position classification rating and guidelines 
and assigned points as noted:  Asst to the Sewer Manager (380pts); Reserve Police Officer (775 pts); P. S. 
Head Clerk Coordinator (475 pts); Executive Assistant to Town Manager and Select Board (475 pts) PACC 
Manager – not completed at this time. 
 
Next Steps 
The committee agreed that they would now analyze the grid and explore how group ratings complement the 
different areas, looking for any outliers that may need some reexamination. 
 
The group targeted October 17, 2023 as next scheduled meeting. 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
 
D. Fortune made a motion to adjourn at 6.52pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 