===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  March 27, 2023    
5:00pm Zoom 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrew, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Manager, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and  
Benefits Risk Manager 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:03pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
No minutes were available from the last meeting 
 
Ongoing Business 
J. Belliveau expressed that after our last meeting on March 22, 2023, she had second thoughts 
regarding how we should proceed, so opened up discussion on the option to change our 
recommendation to recommending a Cola for the current grid.  This was mainly driven by the 
concern that employees should not feel the impact of any salary inactivity.  The group discussed 
this and agreed that we might consider other options. 
 
A motion by J. Bilotta to recommend that we propose a 3% Cola adjustment to the SAP salary 
Grid for FY2024.   
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Discussion regarding this motion moved through how it would be received, budget considerations, 
how it compared to other municipal employees group’s adjustments and how it would fit into our 
continued project to complete a new SAP salary grid later this year.  We also examined what the 
Cola adjustment had been to the SAP salary grid over the last several years. 
A motion by S. Andrews to amend the initial motion to propose a 2.5% Cola adjustment to the 
SAP salary grid for FY2024 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
The group agreed to make this proposal to the upcoming Finance Committee review later this 
week.  Joanna Bilotta agreed to organize the proposal, with the help of Nancy O’Rourke to 
estimate the cost of this option and present it at the Finance Committee meeting.  The following 
week would be the presentation to the Select Board.  Sue Andrews and Donna Fortune agreed to 
do that presentation using the material that Joanna and Nancy prepared. 
 
Public Comment 
There was no public comment, but the committee raised concerns of their disappointment that the HR 
Consultant had not satisfactorily completed the project in the timeline agreed upon.  This included the 
examination of the comparisons of the various employee groups in town to insure we were treating the SAP 
employees equally to the other groups.  They agreed that the final payment for this work not be made till we 
were provided all the information that was agreed upon in our contract with her. 
Proposed next meeting Wednesday, April 12, 2023. 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at5:27pm by S. Andrews 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 