===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  March 6, 2023    
Zoom 6:00pm 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrew, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta  
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business 
Manager, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits/Risk Manager, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator,  
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Mary Beth Bernard, HR Consultant (6:03pm – 6:23pm) 
 
Joanna Bilotta opened the Meeting at 6:03pm with members noted in attendance 
 
New Business 
Motion by S. Andrews to move the Consultants presentation on the agenda to the beginning of meeting, to 
accommodate her agreement to call in during her vacation. 
Seconded:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Mary Beth Bernard outlined the HR projects goals and current status covering the formal proposal she had 
prepared for the committee. The balance she attempted to build in to deal with recruitment and retention 
issues as well as taking in constraints of the municipalities need to manage under Prop 2 ½.  She also 
submitted a proposed change in the overall SAP salary grid, moving from a 20 level grid to a 16 level grid.  
This proposed grid also has been built to balance the midpoint differentials from grade to grade as well as 
the spread within each grade that more closely aligns with other comparable corporate standards.  As the 
material was delivered to the committee late today, committee members were unable to offer opinions on 
submission.  It was also determined that the material had not been made available to anyone outside the 
committee.  J. Bilotta requested that J. Belliveau make the material available to others. Mary Beth 
suggested the committee consider renaming levels of the grid from numeric to alphabetic to allow for the 
loss of the four grades.  The entire committee agreed that a great deal of analysis was needed to determine 
how to proceed.  Heather and Julie had begun to assess this and would share their findings.  The committee 
would also need to understand what the change would be in actual town spending, either for 2023 or if 
spaced unto 2024. 
 
Public Comment: 
The public comment was regarding the lack of receiving the above mentioned consultants proposal.  J. 
Bilotta addressed this as noted in new business notes.  D. Fortune noted that she had gone back to the job 
descriptions in the drop box, that she had commented on to be sure the comments were there and found no 
evidence of that accurately happening.  J. Belliveau/H. Lemieux would go back to IT to research this issue. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the March 6, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept and approve the minutes of the March 6, 2023 meeting as presented 
Second:  D. Fortune  
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
The committee explored the issue of our limited timeline to complete this project and present our proposal 
to both the Finance Committee and ultimately the Select Board for delivery at Town Meeting.  The 
updating of the job descriptions needed to be assessed as much previous work might have been lost.  
Extensive review of the entire proposal especially the SAP salary grid would be needed.  Julie and Heather 
indicated they had already started to assess the impact and would share their findings with the group as it 
become available.  The group agreed to meet again the following Monday, hoping that additional analysis 
would become available and open issues like the commenting of the job descriptions would be corrected. 
===PAGE 2===
 
New Business 
The initial milestone for the committee was presenting an article to be submitted for the town meeting.  J. 
Belliveau presented a proposed article for that submission.  The need for full disclosure of our proposal was 
reviewed and it was determined that the article was a generalized statement and would not include any 
specifics to a final submission date of March 30, 2023 would be met.  A minor clarification was added to 
the article. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation, with one minor clarification, that had been proposed 
by the HR Director for the submission of the committees Town Meeting Article. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
B. Lefebvre acknowledged her appreciation for the extensive work that the committee was doing on this 
important project.  Committee comments were from J. Bilotta regarding the loss of the chairperson E. 
Arnold and the diminished committee membership, noting the need to recruit another member.   
 
Next Meeting: 
Monday, March 13, 2023 7pm Zoom 
 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:55pm by J. Bilotta 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 