===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  February 6, 2023    
Zoom 6:00pm 
 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrew, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, 
Later arrivals Joanna Bilotta (6:10pm) 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Bill Bernard, DPW Director, Barbara 
Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager, Nancy O’Rourke, Amanda Moore, Mary Beth Bernard, HR Consultant 
 
Wendy Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:03pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from the Public, W. Bertrand wanted to be sure to get an update on the Recreation 
Directors position. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the January 9, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes of the January 9, 2023 meeting as presented 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
H.R. Consultant Update 
Mary Beth Bernard brought the committee up to date on the Job Description/Job Classification P roject she 
is responsible for.   Completed 57 job de scriptions and remainder of interviews.  Spent time with the fire 
chief on the on call employee’s profiles.  The pay plan proposal is still on target to be completed for review 
by February 8, 2023 and final drafts of proposal will be February 15, 2023.  Her initial findings found the 
clerical roles within 5% to 12% off the market, the mid level professionals and mid management 10% to 
15% off the market and the Director levels higher.  Understanding the nature of affordability in small towns 
she expected a c onservative recommendation as she completed this work.  She would recommend that we 
eliminate Grade 1 as it was below minimum wage and suggested an alternative grading system using alpha 
designations.  She would submit her final report and her recommendati ons to Julie upon completion.  Julie 
would then forward this report to the committee members for review.  
 
Public Comment 
There were no additional comments from committee, and Barbara Lefebvre reminded the group that the 
finance committee would need to see the proposal for the SAP pay grade adjustments. 
 
Next Meeting: 
Perhaps a call to review the final proposal on February 27, 2023 and regular meeting March 6, 2023 6pm 
 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:57pm by J. Bilotta 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 