===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  August 23, 2023    
6:00pm – Town Office Annex - Hybrid 
 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand (6:45pm), Donna Fortune, Joanna Bilotta 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager 
Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Jo McLaughlin, PACC Manager, (Teams) Nancy O’Rourke, 
Payroll & Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 6:03pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the July 19, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept and approve the minutes from the July 19, 2023 meeting 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
There were no ongoing business issues on the agenda. 
 
New Business 
J. Belliveau presented a new hire exception request from Jo McLaughlin to bring in a new videographer at 
Grade 3 step 5. This is based on the candidate’s years of experience and additional skills as a certified drone 
pilot, a great addition to the PAC group. This is a part-time role, and non-benefited. The Committee agreed 
there was justification for starting at step 5. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to offer the videographer Grade 3 
Step 5 from the SAP. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Job Description Review of jobs 
The Committee reviewed the following jobs utilizing the position classification rating guide, and assigned 
points as noted:  Administrative Assistant – IT (370 pts); Asst. Town Manager/HR Director (595 pts); 
Board Clerk/Secretary (250 pts); COA Director (685 pts); DPW Director (815 pts) 
  
Vacation Accrual Issue 
Wendy Bertrand put this issue on the agenda to review our current vacation accrual policy. This was 
triggered when a few employees increased their hours of work as of July 1, 2023.  Town employees, under 
the SAP, accrue vacation time during the year of work, but they are not authorized to use that time till July 
1 of the following year, when their entire accrual for the previous year is available for their use.  So the 
employees recently with increased hours at work will not be able to utilize that new accrual till next July 
when it becomes available to use.   
It is unclear how long the town has practiced this particular accrual methodology. Additional research will 
need to be completed to explore if this current practice should be amended in any way.  Sue Andrews 
offered to research this issue further to explore any options. 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
The Committee attempted to identify the next meeting date, and targeted September 6 at 6:00pm. They also 
targeted September 20, 2023 at 6:00pm as another potential meeting date.  
 
S. Andrews made a motion to adjourn at 7:59pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 