===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Absent: Wendy Bertrand
J.Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:05pm with members noted in attendance
Public Comment:
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time.
Approval of Minutes:
Minutes of the April 12, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed.
Motion by S. Andrews to accept and approve the minutes of the April 12, 2023 meeting.
Second: D. Fortune
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor
Ongoing Business
General discussion took place on the ongoing Job Classification Project. Donna Fortune outlined some
analysis she did, comparing the job descriptions initially submitted, the updates requested and the current
listed job descriptions to assess that all updates had taken place. On the whole most were completed, but
their may be several outliers still needing amending. She also did work on a grid that assessed the impact
the level recommendations had on employee's actual salary projections. She noted there were just a few
that appeared to be lower at the highest step than the current level. Agreement was reached that we would
assess the outliers this happened to insuring their proper placement in the potential new grid.
The group agreed that the next level of work was to review final drafts of job descriptions and any potential
updates needed as well as to evaluate the spreadsheet to identify the outliers or roles that appear to be
incorrectly slotted. All the appropriate files are in drop box. J. Belliveau also outlined the options of
utilizing a job rating system that many municipalities currently use. While it might be quite an undertaking
to do each job, it is certainly a tool worth examining more closely.
New Business
J. Belliveau presented the recommended pay rate for Building Commissioner candidate step 3 of Grade 16
designated for this role. The candidate comes with appropriate municipal experience and that supports the
hiring above step one. As we all know, we are seeking more experience in our leadership roles and this
offer represents the need to offer competitive salaries.
Motion by S. A Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to offer the candidate for
Building Commissioner a salary at step 3 of Grade 16.
Second: D. Fortune
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor
Public Comment
Public Comment -Nancy O'Rourke asked if the job description for her role had been submitted in the final
consultant's submission, as she had provided updates. D. Fortune checked the data and did not locate this
job description. She asked Nancy to send her whatever material she had so that the description could be
correctly noted in the project. There was no committee comment
Proposed next meeting Wednesday, May 24, 2023.
5:00pm Hybrid - In Person/Zoom
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 5:33pm by D. Fortune
===PAGE 2===

