===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  February 27, 2023    
Zoom 6:00pm 
 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrew, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta  
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business 
Manager, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and benefits Risk Manager, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager 
 
Joanna Bilotta opened the Meeting at 6:01pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from the Public, W. Bertrand asked for clarification on the need to restructure the 
committee given the recent resignation of Chair, Eric Arnold from the committee. J. Belliveau advised that 
no changes could be made till the end of the town’s fiscal year in June, until then the vice chair takes over 
the responsibility for leading the committee. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the February 6, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept and approve the minutes of the February 6, 2023 meeting as presented 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  S. Andrews, D. Fortune, and W. Bertrand all in favor; J. Bilotta was not in attendance on 
February 6, 2023 so did not vote on motion. 
 
New Business 
Motion by W. Bertrand to move the new agenda article to beginning of meeting, thus leaving the ongoing 
business of the Job Evaluation Project to the end. 
Seconded:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Hire – Administrative Assistant IT 
J. Belliveau presented a recommendation to hire a candidate into a new role as administrative assistant in IT 
in Grade 8 Step 6.  This role has been open and interviewing ongoing since September 2022.  Like many 
other open positions in town, qualified candidates have been difficult to source.  This candidate brings 
valuable skills to the role and her experience level is commensurate with the step 6 pay rate.  This is the 
only administrative role in this group and the pay grade and step do not disrupt any other employees pay 
status. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to hire this candidate into the role 
of Administrative Assistant in IT at Grade 8 Step 6. 
Seconded:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
HR Consultant update - Consultant was unavailable for this meeting; J. Belliveau gave an update on 
progress.  W. Bertrand noted that the overall pr oject seemed to be behind on the delivery of project targets.   
Acknowledging that the project had some delays and that the consultant still had several open issues 
pending even though the project submissions shoul d be completed.  The lack of an updated 
recommendation for a new salary grid was especially worrisome.  Since the updated job descriptions were 
previously made available to members of this committee, they had provided feedback to J. Belliveau.  Most 
were minor notations and did not materially change their outcome.  Several descriptions were reviewed and 
minor issues explained more fully.  The descriptions are in good order and committee will continue to 
review any updated provided.  The group questioned if any descriptions resulted in grade changes.  While 
===PAGE 2===
not formally identified, J. Belliveau thought there might be just one or two minor changes that she will 
better identify at our next meeting.   
The group was generally concerned about finalizing this proje ct, especially the proposed salary grid 
recommendations that are  needed to be submitted for the Finance committee and ultimately at town 
meeting.  The group recognized the limited timeline to complete this project and agreed to meet again 
Monday, March 6, 2023 at 6pm on Zoom.  This was done with the request that the committee get updated 
prior to the meeting with an updated salary grid and any other job description changes prior to the meeting 
so they might be review prior to the meeting. 
 
Public Comment 
There were no additional comments from the public or the committee 
 
Next Meeting: 
March 6, 2023 6pm Zoom 
 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:38pm by W. Bertrand 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 