===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
joined meeting via phone 5:56pm
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:00pm with members noted in attendance
Public Comment:
S. Dougherty asked if the proposed new SAP grades would be discussed, J. Bilotta acknowledged that
would happen during the meeting discussions.
There was no committee comments during this time.
Approval of Minutes:
Amended Minutes of the March 14, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept and approve the minutes of the March 14, 2023 meeting as presented
Second: S. Andrews
Roll Call Vote: All in favor
New Business
As we awaited hearing from the HR Consultant, J. Bilotta raised the issue of the committee reorganization,
needed due to the departure of our previous chairperson.
A Motion by W. Bertrand to recommend J. Bilotta as the new chairperson.
Seconded: S. Andrews
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor
A Motion by S. Andrews to recommend W. Bertrand as the new vice chairperson
Seconded: S. Andrews
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor
Ongoing Business
As we awaited the call from the HR Consultant, J. Belliveau reviewed the group of questions that
had previously been sent to the consultant for review. The group also discussed the timing of the
project and the potential that we would not have enough time to adequately complete the work in
time for the review by the Finance Committee and the Select Board members, in preparation for
the Town Meeting in April. Several options were discussed including postponing our delivery to
the fall and once approved insure that retroactive adjustments be made. We also discussed if a
COLA should be recommended now, to the current SAP salary grid, so that employees not
experience any delay in receiving naturally occurring pay adjustments. The group reviewed what
was known about the Cola's that was targeted for other municipal groups. We found that not all
contract negotiations had been finalized, but one had a 2.5% planned.
A motion by J. Bilotta to push completion of our project to the fall and recommend a retroactive
adjustment be made to employees impacted by the delay, upon completion and approval of the
project, back to July 2023.
Second: S. Andrews
Discussion regarding this motion moved through several issues that impacted the project and the
employees. This included just proposing a 3% COLA to the current grid, and completing the
project in the fall. Ultimately the group determined to stay with the initial motion and not propose
a COLA.
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
16 levels. There were discussions on several positions that didn't seem to accurately be reflected
in the proposed recommended grid. How comparisons with other towns might not be comparing
apples to apples vs. just job title designations. When benchmark reviews fit and when they might
not as Lunenburg might have an expanded role for similar roles elsewhere. Ultimately final
designations would be ours to propose if these differences occurred.
The group agreed that we should meet again with Mary Beth to iron out the remaining issues and
completion of project goals. No specific date was agreed upon. Mary Beth left meeting at 6:34pm
Proposed next meeting Wednesday, April 12, 2023.
Public Comment
There was no public comment, nor comments from the committee
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:53pm by W. Bertrand
Second: S. Andrews
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor
