===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  January 31, 2024 
5:00pm – Hybrid: Ritter Building & Zoom 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand (5:55pm) 
 
Also Present  
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Thomas Gammel, Police 
Chief, Amanda Moore, Public Safety Coordinator, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Bill Bernard, DPW 
Director, Jay Simeone 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:02pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
J. Bilotta shared that she had been asked that someone from the Committee come to an upcoming Select Board 
meeting in February to update them on our project goals and progress on the SAP job description update and position 
rating. She will organize the presentation and arrange for the meeting. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes from the January 17, 2024 meeting of the Personnel Committee were reviewed  
             Motion by S. Andrews to accept the minutes as presented for the January 17, 2024 Personnel Committee Meeting 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor (D. Fortune abstained as she had not attended the meeting) 
 
Ongoing Business: 
None 
 
New Business 
The Committee reviewed a new job description created for Police Executive Assistant.  This is currently the Public 
Safety Coordinator in the Police department and classified under the AFSCME Union. Chief Gammel outlined the 
role and the various elements that were included in this role.  The Committee evaluated the job role utilizing the 
grading tool and determined total points to be 610/ Grade 9.  This job description will need to be approved ultimately 
at Annual Town Meeting as it has not been part of the SAP previously. 
 
The Committee then began a review of several of the roles that remained outstanding, some for first time, others that 
had been amended after an initial review suggested changes. The Payroll & Benefits Coordinator/Risk Managers role 
had been amended and the group reviewed all the evaluation factors making several changes from the initial review, 
this review totaled 555/Grade 8.  The Assistant Town Manager/HR Directors role had also been amended after an 
initial review and changes were suggested. The areas changed were: Experience was changed to Degree 5; 
Complexity was changed to Degree 6, Supervision exercised was changed to degree 4. That changed the total to 
720/Grade 11. The DPW Directors amended job description changed in a number of factors. 
Knowledge/training/education changed to Degree 6, Personal contacts/interactions changed to Degree 6, Confidential 
Information changed to Degree 4, Occupational Hazards was changed to Degree 4, Work Environment was changed 
to Degree 3. and Physical Demands was changed to Degree 3, which then changed total to 950/Grade 14. 
 
J. Belliveau had prepared a spreadsheet of the salary survey she has been working and shared with the Committee for 
review.  She has received data from 8 comparable towns. Each town submitted data for roles that were similar, not all 
jobs were represented in each town.  More work to analyze this material will be done by the Committee. 
  
The Committee reviewed what remaining items in the project were and how we would move to the development of a 
new grid.  The Committee will review the Salary Survey material as well as the updated job grid spreadsheet to assess 
any anomalies.  We have also sought the assistance of a former member of this Committee, with broad experience in 
compensation planning, to assist in creating the new grid.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
The Committee set the February meeting schedule in order to prepare for the presentation to the Select Board and 
finalization of the project for submission to the Select Board and Finance Committee prior to Annual Town Meeting. 
 
Targets:  Wednesday; February 7 - Monday, February 12.  As S. Andrews will be unable to attend the next meeting, 
W. Bertrand will take minutes. 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the public or the Committee 
 
S. Andrews made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 7:07pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 