===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Personnel Committee  
Minutes: February 12, 2024   
5:00 –Hybrid – Town Hall 
In Person Attendees:   
Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta-Simeone  
Via Teams:  Sue Andrews 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy COA Outreach Coordinator; Nancy 
O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits/Risk Manager  
J.Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:12pm with members noted in attendance  
Public Comment: 
Public Comment: None 
Committee Comment: None  
Approval of Minutes:  
February 7 minutes approved, motion by D. Fortune, second by W. Bertrand. 
Ongoing Business  
Continuation of outliers: The Committee reviewed the following outliers that were identified by the HR Director. 
Facilities Director: Occupational Hazard recommended change from degree three to degree two, overall score 730 
Building Commissioner: Judgment recommended change from degree five to degree four, Personal Contact 
recommended change from degree seven to degree six, Confidential Information recommended change from degree three 
to degree two, Occupational Hazards recommended change from degree two to degree three, Work Environment 
recommended change from degree four to degree three, overall total 745 
COA Director: Physical Demands recommended change from degree one to degree two, overall total 720 
COA Dietary Aide: Complexity recommended change from degree two to degree one, Physical Demands recommended 
change from degree two to degree one, overall total 265 
Library Page: Occupational Hazards recommended change from degree two to a degree one, overall total 285 
Beach Director: Knowledge, Education, Training recommended change from degree four to degree two, Accountability 
recommended change from degree five to degree three, Complexity recommended change from degree four to degree 
three, Confidential Information recommended change from degree three to degree two, Physical Demands recommended 
change from degree two to degree three, overall total 545 
Recreation Director: Supervision Received recommended change from degree six to degree five, Judgment 
recommended change from degree four to degree three, Complexity recommended change from degree five to degree 
three, Personal Contact recommended change from degree Confidential Information recommended change from degree 
three to degree two, Physical Demands recommended change from degree five to degree three, Work Environment 
recommended change from degree three to degree two, overall total 575 
Board Clerk/Recording Secretary Supervision Received recommended change from degree two to degree three, 
Judgment recommended change from degree one to degree two, overall total 275 
Executive Assistant to TM SB: Supervision Received recommended change from degree three to degree four, 
Complexity recommended change from degree three to degree four, Confidential Information recommended change from 
degree three to degree four, overall total 500 
Police Executive Assistant: Knowledge, Training, Education recommended change from degree four to degree three, 
Accountability recommended change from degree four to degree three, Personal Contacts recommended change from 
degree four to degree three, Occupational Hazards recommended change from degree two to degree one, Work 
Environment recommended change from degree, Work Environment recommended change from degree two to degree 
one, overall total 530. 
Network Administrator: Personal Contacts recommended change from degree five to degree four, Occupational Hazards 
recommended change from degree three to degree two 
===PAGE 2===
Principal Assessor: Supervision Exercised recommended change from degree two to degree three, Complexity 
recommended change from degree four to degree five, Physical Demands recommended change from degree one to 
degree two, overall total 680 
Treasurer/Tax Collector: Supervision Exercised recommended change from degree two to degree three, Judgment 
recommended change from degree three to degree four, Complexity recommended change from degree three to degree 
five, Confidential Information recommended change from degree three to degree four, Physical Demands recommended 
change from degree one to degree two, overall total 675 
PACC Manager: Supervision Exercised recommended change from degree four to degree three, Judgment recommended 
change from degree four to degree three, Complexity change recommended from degree five to degree four, Personal 
Contact recommended change from degree five to degree four, Occupational Hazards change recommended change from 
degree three to degree two, overall total 620. 
Sewer Business Manager: Supervision Received recommended change from degree five to degree four, Accountability 
recommended change from degree six to degree four, Judgment recommended change from degree four to degree three, 
Personal Contacts recommended change from degree five to degree four, overall total 620. 
 
 
New Business 
The Committee approved step 2 of the newly appointed employee into the SAP as the Executive Assistant to Town 
Manager and Select Board.  
 
Motion to approve: W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
Upcoming Meetings 
Select Board meeting on February 20, 2024. Next Personnel Committee meeting February 21, 2024 at 5:00. Location to 
be determined. The following meeting is scheduled for February 26, 2024. 
 
Public Comment  
Public Comment –none 
Committee Comment – W. Bertrand discussed that all of the SAP positions are between 5%-25% below the comp 
averages and this needs to be kept in mind to retain current employees and attract new employees. D. Fortune reiterated 
that step one is develop the FY24 grid will be based on current data. 
Next meeting Monday, February 12.  
5:00pm In Person Ritter Building  
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 7:40 by W. Bertrand 
Second: D. Fortune  
Role Call Vote: All in Favor 
 