===PAGE 1===
 
     STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF)  
MINUTES 
February 23, 2017 
 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Jack Rabbitt present. Also in attendance was 
Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney. The meeting opened at 6:37 pm.  
 
It was announced that the Board of Selectmen have voted to apply to become a Massachusetts 
Community Compact Cabinet community by entering into the Best Practice Program.  The “best 
practices” chosen include: 
 
       Best Practice:   Implement Stormwater Management Measures so that land use regulations help 
promote infiltration, control flooding, and reduce pollution. 
       Best Practice:   Perform a Cyber Security Assessment to analyze whether there is risk of 
unauthorized access, implement or improve policies and procedures appropriate for the technology 
environment and identify steps to remediate any problems identified. 
       Best Practice:   Implement a Citizen Engagement Communication Plan that leverages technology 
to engage the public through basic electronic communication channels and ensures that internal staff is 
positioned to support these initiatives. 
 
In its submittal, the Town specified the following for Stormwater Best Practice: 
“The Town of Lunenburg has set up a Storm Water Tas k Force that, working with MA Watershed 
Coalition Director Ed Himlan, has identified a number of measures but require assistance in 
implementing these measures.  The Town is seeking assistance in the form of funding for 
implementation of a series of identified measures that will help promote “infiltration, control floodi ng, 
and reduce pollution”.  Examples of these identifie d measures that the Town requires assistance in 
implementing are “Construction Site Storm Water Con trol Program”, “Separate Storm Sewer System 
Map”, “SS Overflows inventory”, among many other me asures.  Our goal is to have a further 
discussion about what measures this Community Compact Best Practice can help us implement.” 
 
 Upon acceptance, the Town becomes eligible for grants to aid in the development of these best 
practices over the next two years. 
 
Minutes of the January 26, 2017, meeting were accepted.   
 
Phyllis reported on the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition Steering Committee Meeting she 
attended on February 15. Several Communities reported that they no longer use sand/salt mixes for 
winter storm roadway treatment and have moved on to the use of salt.  Holden last used sand in the 
2011-2012 season.  When I inquired as to capital expenditures needed for this transition, the Holden 
DPW director said none.  In fact, he pointed out that since salt has less volume and weight, the roads 
are now treated in ½ the time it took to treat with a sand/salt mix.  Reducing the amount of sand used in 
Lunenburg would address Minimum Control “Good House  Keeping and Pollution Prevention” 
Measure of the MS4 Permit. 
 
===PAGE 2===
4 subcommittees have been established to improve the effectiveness of the coalition:  Education, 
Program, Technical, and Legislative.  Phyllis has joined the Education subcommittee. The Coalition is 
looking for member communities to provide additional hands for these important missions. Worcester 
Polytech (WPI) has established a Water Resource Project Center (WRPC).  Students in their junior 
year work with a group to complete a project; the WRPC now has an office in Boston, as WPI wants to 
extend their outreach statewide. 
 
Jack Rabbitt reported that he has met, for the second time, with Superintendent of Schools Calmes.  He 
will meet with her again and report at the SWTF April 13 meeting on the agreed upon specific 
educational outreach actions. 
 
There was a discussion on the overall mission of the SWTF, which is: 
“The Stormwater Task Force is charged with the deve lopment of a comprehensive stormwater 
management plan that complies with state and federal regulations, provides a storm and surface water 
system that controls damage from storms, protects surface water quality and protects the environment.    
The plan shall determine which local agency or agencies will be responsible for implementation, 
establish the estimated cost of the program, as well as provide for the creation of an ongoing funding 
source to enable its success.” 
 
During Public Comment, Reservoir Rd. resident Rhonda Lisio expressed concern over stormwater 
runoff and perceived poor “housekeeping” habits of the construction crew building new homes 
adjacent to her property on Reservoir Rd..  It was pointed out that the mission of the SWTF, as noted 
above and as discussed prior to her comments, does not deal with such specific issues. Further, it was 
suggested she take her concerns to DPW Director Rodriquenz and to the Planning Board for further 
action. 
 
Motion to adjourn was made at 7:40 pm by Matt Allison, seconded by Jack Rabbitt, all voted in favor. 
 
Next meeting will be Thursday, March 9, 2017, at 6:30 pm, at the Ritter building, upper conference 
room.  Remaining meeting of the first quarter will be March 30. Proposed meetings for the second 
quarter include April 13, 27, May 11, 25, June 8, 22. 
 
 
 
 
 
 