===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF) 
MINUTES 
June 8, 2017 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, Jack Rabbitt, and Jack Rodriquenz present. Also in 
attendance was Lunenburg Land Use Director, Adam Burney. The meeting opened at 6:35 pm.  
 
Minutes of the May 25, 2017, meeting were accepted.   
 
There was a discussion of the revisions to the Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) 
Minimum Control Measure (MCM) Notice of Intent (NOI) drafts 1 through 6, which the SWTF 
had labored over with Consultant Ed Himlan.  Various changes were made; Phyllis will enter 
revisions in the document.  It was discussed that there are Town entities listed as Responsible & 
Support Entity in this draft, and that there should be communication with these boards prior to 
the presentation of the NOI to the Board of Selectmen (BOS) for their review.  Phyllis offered 
to speak with the Town Manager as to how this should unfold. 
 
There was a discussion on the Board of Selectmen’s request for a review of the SWMP NOI.  
The SWTF felt it should be ready for review following the 6/22/17 meeting with Design 
Consultants, Inc. (DCI).  Phyllis will make a request of the Town Manager to put this on the 
agenda either 7/18 or 8/1/17.  Adam has agreed to create summaries of each MCM to facilitate 
this presentation. 
 
Matt Allison exited the meeting at approximately 7:30, as he had an Agricultural Committee 
meeting to attend. 
 
Heather Lemieux has informed the SWTF that the Community Compact grant contract 
paperwork has been received and filled out; it was to be returned to the State on 6/9/17.  The 
SWTF will be informed when the paperwork has been received back from the State, signed by 
them, so that the SWTF may proceed with the work outlined. 
 
There was a discussion on the Rain Barrel/Compost Bin sales policy, attached, which was 
approved by the BOS at their 6/6/17 meeting.  DPW Director Rodriquenz felt that tracking sales 
to insure that $1000 maximum is extended in reductions/give aways to Boards & Committees 
was arduous.  The SWTF approved the creation of a flyer to announce the sales & a mailing that 
could be placed in with the tax bills for $242.80. 
 
There was a discussion on what is needed to move the Illicit Discharge Detection and 
Elimination (IDDE) Zoning bylaw to the general bylaws.  It was determined that, without 
changes to this bylaw, it could be moved, as is, at the Fall Town Meeting.  Adam will work to 
make this happen. 
 
===PAGE 2===
There has been no progress on altering Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition forms for 
use by Lunenburg.  Phyllis offered to assist in this effort. 
 
The meeting schedule was then confirmed:   June 22 nd will be with DCI to review the NOI prior 
to meeting with the BOS, July 13, July 27 with DCI, August 24, September 14, 28.  All meetings 
will be held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room, unless otherwise noted. 
 
Jack Rodriquenz made a motion to adjourn at 8 pm, Jack Rabbitt seconded, all voted in favor. 
 
 
 