===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF) 
MINUTES 
May 3, 2018 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Matt Allison and Phyllis Luck; Land Use Director Burney and Consultant Ed 
Himlan were also in attendance. The meeting opened at 5:55 pm.  Jack Rabbitt entered the 
meeting at 6 p.m., and exited at 6:35. 
 
Minutes of the April 26, 2018 meeting were accepted. 
 
Phyllis Luck informed the group that the Board of Selectmen has approved the SWTF request 
to reduce the membership of the SWTF to 3 members:  One Conservation Commissioner, one 
Planning Board member, and one member of the Board of Selectmen.  It was suggested that the 
Task Force have 2 alternate positions for citizens, which was also approved. 
 
Ed Himlan of the Massachusetts Watershed Coalition presented the draft narrative and scope of 
services for the 319 grant proposal.  The proposal was well prepared and only a few minor 
additions were discussed.  Adam Burney reported that the DPW Director approves of the 319 
grant proposal, as presented by Ed Himlan.  The SWTF will meet on May 17 at 6 pm to vote on 
approval of this proposal, as it needs to be delivered to the Massachusetts Department of 
Environmental Protection (DEP) in Worcester by noon on Tuesday, June 1.  Ed Himlan has 
agreed to hand carry it to the DEP, as well as deliver this information electronically, which are 
both required by the grant. 
 
Ed Himlan gave Matt Allison a template for a letter of support, so that he may share with land 
owners abutting the Mulpus Brook, which is in the Healthy Watershed that is the subject of the 
grant.  Ed will provide sample letters of support that may be signed by appropriate Town 
agencies, including the Conservation Commission, Board of Selectmen, and others.  Adam 
Burney will take the lead on getting the Town Agency letters completed, Ed Himlan will 
assemble the package of support letters for submission with the grant. 
 
Ed Himlan reported that on May 11, he, Mike Clark, and DPW Director Rodriquenz will 
complete a site visit to the locations identified for the BMP (Best Management Practices) to be 
constructed under the auspices of the grant.  The Conservation Commission will complete site 
walks, as part of their protocol, when Commission approval is sought prior to construction of 
the BMPs. 
 
The Town Manager has confirmed that the 2003 Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System 
(MS4) Permit Annual Report, Due May 1, has been signed by her and submitted to DEP. 
 
The proposed agenda for the May 17 SWTF meeting was discussed, and will be sent to the 
Town Clerk by Phyllis Luck. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Kitchen Compost Buckets are now available for sale, at a cost of $5 per bucket.  The 
original order was placed for 25 buckets, 8 have been sold; remaining inventory and proceeds 
have been delivered to the DPW, where they are now available for sale.   
 
Meeting Schedule:  it was discussed that the Candidate Debate is this coming Thursday, May 3, 
so the Task Force will move its meeting start to 5:45 and will revise the agenda to reduce the 
number of items to be discussed. Further scheduled meetings include May 17, June 14 (Land 
Use Director Burney indicated he will not be available for this meeting). 
 
Tentative schedule for third quarter: July 12, August 9, September 13. 
 
 
 
Motion: M. Allison        2nd: P. Luck 
To adjourn the meeting at 6:55 pm.                                                       Vote: All in Favor 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF 
Member, BOS 