===PAGE 1===
STORMWATER TASK FORCE (SWTF) 
MINUTES 
August 2, 2018 
 
The Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) met in the Ritter Building, first floor conference room, as 
scheduled, with Matt Allison, Phyllis Luck, and Consultant Ed Himlan. The meeting opened at 
6:35 pm.   
 
Minutes of the June 28, 2018 meeting were accepted. 
 
Ed Himlan of the Massachusetts Watershed Coalition conducted a review of the Notice of 
Intent (NOI) for coverage under the small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) 
General Permit, which permit became effective on July 1, 2018. The first annual report for this 
permit will be due on September 29, 2019, and every year following on the 29th of September. 
The NOI covering the MS4 permit must be submitted to the Mass Department of Environmental 
Protection (DEP) by September 29, 2018. This will cover the period commencing July 1, 2018 
through the life of the permit, and is intended to be iterative in nature, that is permittees are 
expected to complete tasks, evaluate the effectiveness of same, and adjust and improve methods 
of completion over the passing of time.  Hopefully, this evolution will yield better results.   
There was discussion around whether the NOI should be submitted in paper copy or 
electronically; either form is permissible.  This will be determined at the SWTF meeting of 
September 13, 2018. 
 
The group then began a review of the 19 page NOI document.  It was suggested to leave 
discussion of Minimum Control Measure (MCM) 1, Public Education and Outreach, to later in 
the meeting. 
 
In discussing MCM 2, Public Involvement and Participation, it was determined that a survey 
posted on the SWTF webpage, as well as an article in the Ledger which advertises the survey 
and invites more community participation, should be undertaken.  The Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP), which should be ready by October-November, according to Ed Himlan, should 
also be posted on the website. 
 
In discussing MCM 3, Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination (IDDE), it was determined 
that the Storm Sewer Overflow (SSO) Inventory must be completed by June 30, 2019.  This 
inventory is intended to assure there is no cross contamination of the stormwater and sanitary 
sewer systems.  This work will involve Lunenburg’s Department of Public Works (DPW), 
Sewer Commission, and Board of Health in a combined effort to complete this inventory. 
There are other requirements shown in the NOI for written IDDE procedures and 
implementation of same.  Ed Himlan pointed out that the Central Mass Regional Stormwater 
Coalition (CMRSWC) has an IDDE Plan template on their website that may be easily adapted 
for this purpose. 
 
===PAGE 2===
In the discussion of MCM 4, Construction Site Stormwater Runoff Control, it was determined 
that the first 3 Best Management Practices (BPM’s) in this section are already in place.  What 
still must be completed within one year of the effective date of the permit, or by June 30, 2019, 
is BMP 4, Waste Control, which involves the adoption of requirements to control wastes for 
construction sites.  The Stormwater bylaws are in place, but need to be reviewed to insure they 
are all inclusive. 
 
The conversation moved to MCM 5, Post-Construction Stormwater Management in New 
Development and Redevelopment.  The first two BPM categories in the NOI have been 
completed.  It was determined that the last two:  Allow green infrastructure and Street design 
and parking lot guidelines, should be combined.   
 
The final MCM, 6, is Municipal Good Housekeeping and Pollution Prevention.  The first BMP 
to be addressed will be “Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Procedures”.  Ed Himlan pointed 
out that the CMRSWC has templates on their website which may be easily adapted to assist 
with this requirement.  The second BMP: Inventory of all permittee owned parks and open 
spaces, buildings and facilities, and vehicles and equipment, requires the participation of Town 
Departments and the SWTF to complete, and should be the second task tackled in this MCM. It 
was determined that the DPW has already established a program for repair and rehabilitation of 
MS4 infrastructure.  The BMP to establish a Catch basin Cleaning schedule as well as a Street 
Sweeping program, must be developed by June 2019.  The BMP which requires the DPW adopt 
a road salt use optimization program by June 2019, which means that the Town must establish 
procedures to reduce the amount of road salt used during the deicing season by adopting 
techniques to maximize safety while reducing what is placed on the roads. The BMP which 
calls for inspections and maintenance of stormwater treatment structures, must also be 
implemented in 2019.  The CMRSWC has templates for this on their website. 
The last BMP in MCM6, Phosphorous Source Identification Report:  Appendix H, must be 
implemented in 2022. 
 
The conversation then moved back to MCM 1, Public Education and Outreach.  The NOI may 
stay as written, or it may be altered to more directly reflect the use of materials in the Think 
Blue Mass campaign, just released by MA DEP.  If the NOI MCM 1 section remains the same, 
the SWTF will have the option to proceed as indicated or to adopt the Think Blue Mass 
campaign.  It was determined to leave the NOI as is for now, and to have further discussion on 
this topic at the September 13 SWTF meeting. 
 
Part III, Stormwater Management Program Summary, “Actions for Meeting Requirements 
Related to Water Quality Limited Waters”.  It targets the pollutant Phosphorus, and its effect on 
the Nashua River.  The Town must adhere to the requirements in part II of Appendix H.  The 
Town will need to complete a Phosphorus Control Plan by 2021, this may be completed by a 
consultant if the Town deems that advantageous. 
 
The SWTF will take a vote on submission of the new NOI at its September 13 meeting.  There 
is a meeting scheduled for September 27 in the event final tweaks are required.  The Town 
===PAGE 3===
Manager will be asked to sign the NOI; the SWTF Chair will set up a meeting for NOI review 
with Ms. Lemieux, and then have this put on the Board of Selectmen’s agenda for their review; 
these actions will precede the September 13 SWTF meeting. 
 
The Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) BMPs for MCM 1 and MCM 2 will be reviewed at 
the September 13 SWTF meeting. 
 
Land Use Director Burney was not able to attend the meeting, so agenda items c. and d. will be 
taken up at a future meeting. 
 
Conservation Commissioner Jack Rabbitt was unable to attend the meeting, so agenda item e. 
will be taken up at a future meeting. 
 
A template for the Activity Log for Education and Outreach efforts to comply with the new 
MS4 permit was presented to the group.  One column of information was added; the group will 
begin to use this, and refine as needed. 
 
Ed Himlan reported that the workshop with the Hickory Hills Gardening Club was a very 
interactive evening; there was a lot of discussion and everyone gained new knowledge about the 
installation of rain gardens and the need to get  stormwater into the ground rather than flowing 
right into the lake. 
 
Meeting Schedule for the third quarter:  September 13 and 27.  All meetings, unless otherwise 
noted, are held at 6:30 pm, in the Ritter Building, upper conference room. 
 
 
Motion: M. Allison        2nd: P. Luck 
To adjourn the meeting at 8:10 pm.                                                       Vote: All in Favor 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Phyllis Luck, Chair SWTF 
Member, BOS 
 
 
 
  
 