===PAGE 1===
Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) 
April 21, 2022 
Start time: 7:02PM  
7:00PM Ritter Memorial basement- Joint meeting with AGCom – Guest speaker Janet H. Morrison, Esq. 
Presentation of “Regional Conservation Partnership Program” (RCPP) 2014. Mission statement is to provide 
professional land conversation services to landowners, communities, and land trusts in Northern Central 
Massachusetts. USDA Conservation Resource Project started in Worcester county in 2014. She works closely 
with funding programs such as Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ALE) and Agricultural Restrictive 
Funds (ARP). Farm eligibility- local important/unique soil, 66 percent can not be farmland- can be forest or 
wetlands with waiver- no building, no paved roads, land must be clear.  Additional information can be found 
on website - Jhmorrison.com 
End of presentation: 7:24PM 
Meeting starts 7:45PM in the main room at the Town Hall -live on public Access Cable Committee at 7:46PM 
1. Stormwater Open Meeting & Roll Call Town Hall 
 
In attendance were John Rabbitt (Conservation), Matt Proctor (Resident Contractor), Adam Burney 
(Land Use Director), Todd Dwyer (Selectman), John Beale via Zoom (Resident Engineer), Perry Jewel 
(liason), Danielle Marr (Secretary). 
 
2. Member & Public Comment 
Stormwater group is selling rain barrel and compost bins-  $80 for the pair. Call DPW if interested. 
Upcoming Earth Day Activities/Events  
- Saturday February 24th from 10AM-3PM – Meadow (Alpaca) Farm   
- Pollination garden information session – located on Hollis Road from 10-12   
- Clean Up’s by snow riders – looking for volunteers. 
 
3. MS4 Presentation by Nick Cristofori from CEI… (Town Storm Water Consultant) 
Previous meeting Nick was unable to attend but a brief discussion with the basic info was discussed.  
Under MS4 program Lunenburg is required to complete a number of activities and provide a brief 
status update. 
- Question by Jack in regards to IDDE Training program. There is concern about yearly requirement 
of training and new employee training.  Nick confirmed training is required annually but towns 
typically do this on their own as opposed to having a consultation.  In the past few years, 2 DPW 
employees attended the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition free training. 
 
- Inquiry by Jack about MS4 training in 2020 and 2021. The results from 2020 show a class of 7 
members completed a 1 hour training. Inquiry into whether this was an adequate amount of 
training. The permit does not specify training but in past they have completed a 1 hour 
presentation.  Nick says he is willing to elaborate and provide more training and paperwork for 
study although this is not typically done in other towns. Central mass Framingham DPW offers 3 
hour training with hands on experience including reviewing reports and results. Jack states he 
===PAGE 2===
doesn’t want to just want to just meet minimum requirements. Currently there is no DPW director 
which would be needed to gain more information for training and development.  
 
- Inquiry about Training package- Currently there has only been 2 trainings. Training for operators 
and individuals cleaning out catch basins and outfalls. Jack wants more emphasis on training and 
will look into additional training options. 
 
- Concern about location of underground infiltration systems. Some underground infiltration systems 
were searched for but it was deemed unlikely that they even exist. After 2 rounds of tests there 
were not many underground locations found even where some were expected to be there. 
 
- 17 known stormwaters were inspected. Currently CEI inspections are annual as part of package. 
This may be discussed and changed in future once a DPW director is employed. Groups shows 
interest in training town employees to do these inspections and document. 
 
- Question- Does CEI give recommendations on other locations with adding swale or dentition pond. 
Draft provided with potential stormwater BMP locations on municipal properties may be a good 
opportunity to look into further. 
 
- Question- Is there funding available to put these practices in for areas with flooding, etc.? Town is 
not responsible for managing storm water on private properties.  
 
- Fundings and Massworks grants are available that are not town money.  We would need grant 
writer. Follow up with Heather about asset management grant being submitted.  
 
Timeline: 
o Map all outfalls by end of year 2 and map of pipes by end of year 10. 
 
o Slide 36 of agenda shows outfalls- per permits need to be inspected all outfalls or dry 
weather flow by end of year 3 . As previously discussed, we tried to inspect but unable to 
find them all (typical for most communities). 
 
o Town will need to construct a demonstration BMP by end of year 6 to meet requirements.  
 
o By year 10 they need to map catch basins, manholes and pipe interconnectivity. Currently 
town is finalizing asset management grant which will include size of pipe, elevation of 
invert, outlet, rim, and sump. By year 10 – estimated to be 95% complete with 5% being 
human error. 
 
Stormwater inspection report – General concern about red flag locations but documentation 
states no inspection is required, no immediate actions. 
- Nick- wants to make BMP condition manageable and reasonable for DPW and staff to complete. 
Per permit everything needs to be inspected annually. Results show that our town BMP condition 
was quite good conduction and evaluation checklist can be provided to group as requested. 
 
- Inquiry as to whether residents will now be aware of locations of outfalls and catch basins for them 
to check in on and report back. Earthtech came in 2007 to identify all our stormwater outfalls and 
catch basins. Lunenburg needs to take calculations a year apart in order to see how much sediment 
===PAGE 3===
accumulates within a year. Ideal to create routes of cleaning needing to be done once a year. Need 
to have this data in order to calculate how much sediment is being collected. 
 
- In past year plans were bid, constructed, then finalized. In 2020 plans were submitted by the 
stormwater bylaw to town meeting. In November 2020, bylaw was passed and effective May 2021. 
Zero projects of as-builts are under construction.  
 
- Matt spoke to drivers cleaning catch basins. Truck not outfitted correctly in order to achieve more 
cleaning of catch basins. More realistic to have outside vendor to do the cleaning as opposed to 
buying expensive vac truck. This would include having to pay for maintenance and the fact that it 
would only be used for 4 weeks out of the entire year. Interest in bringing in subcontractor to get a 
jump on the cleaning. Community develops plan that catch basins should never be more than half 
full. Most communities outsource and use subcontractor. Ideally want to create routes and 
complete internally. Plan works to evaluate which catch basins need to be cleaned more regularly. 
Use this data to further expand and detail plan. 
Street sweeping – 10 miles less cleaning than previous year of 2020. Sweeping is supposed to be done once a 
year.  
Nick leaves 9:15 
 
4. Task Force Member Update and Vote on Additional Membership  
Paula Bertram is vacating board but will still be able to attend meetings. 
Jack wants to take a vote to increase members from 5 to 7. Ideally would like to add additional resident 
representatives from each of the 2 lakes. At this point Jack feels as though Paula and Perry will be good 
additions.  
Perry will be coming to meetings as liaison. Disagreement on whether town and liaisons should be able 
to vote. 
Danielle Marr listed as new board clerk/secretary. 
5. Website Discussion  
Paula was not at meeting-  Will discuss at later meeting. 
6. Who gets the Storm Water Emails and responds?  
Emails go to everyone on the committee, town manager, DPW director, Adam Burney. 
7. Identify possible Next Meeting Agenda Items.  
Stonewall utility. 
 Additional training opportunities. 
Look into Town engineer or consultation would be used to do assessment and soil borings.  
Create storyboard in order to gain public awareness and involvement in regards to MS4. 
 
8. Next Meeting 
===PAGE 4===
May 19th at 7PM 
 
9. Public Comment 
No public comment. 
 
10. Committee Member Comment 
None. Meeting meet expectation based on agenda. 
 
 Motion to Adjourn was made at 9:27 by Todd Dwyer, seconded by Matt Proctor. 
 
 
 