===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Stormwater Task Force 
September 15, 2022 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Ave. 
 
1. Open Meeting & Roll Call 
Meeting opened at 7:05 PM by Adam Burney. 
Amanda Reid (Planning Board), John Beale (Member), Todd Dwyer (Chair), 
Richard tremble (Vice Chair), Bill Bernard (DPW), Adam Burney (Land use 
Director), and Danielle Marr (Secretary).  
 
2. Committee Reorganization 
Todd Dwyer volunteers to be Chair as he has been on the committee the longest. 
Bill Bernard nominates Todd Dwyer as Chair- seconded by John Beale. 
Todd nominates Richard Tremble as Vice Chair- seconded by Amanda Reid. 
 
3. Public Comment 
The main priority of the newly appointed Chair, Todd Dwyer, is to manage and 
make sure that the MS4 Permit is executed. Todd Dwyer wants to look into a 
way to better track where the stormwater dollars are being expended.   
 
4. Review & Approve Minutes 
Danielle Marr to send prior meeting minutes to Adam Burney to then add them 
for approval to the next meeting. 
5. Task Force Member Updates 
3 new members have joined the Stormwater Committee and there is a new DPW 
director, Bill Bernard.  
 
6. Asset Management Grant Update 
Town applied for and received an asset management grant. This grant is to map 
all physical infrastructure assets that the town has (catch basins, piping, outfalls, 
manhole). This will be a roughly 78,000-dollar grant from the state and is a 
requirement of the MS4 permit by year 10. Up to this point in the permit 
timeline, we are required to do outfall screening to see if during dry weather (48 
hours without rainfall) the outfalls are running. This is mainly to check to see if 
there are any illicit discharges. 490 of the outfalls in town have been found, 
photographed, sampled, tested (phosphorus, chlorine), and plotted on a map.  
There are 500 outfalls in the town.  
===PAGE 2===
Another application has been submitted for financial assistance regarding catch 
basins. This grant will look to identify where pipes connect to catch basins, 
where manholes are, and in which direction the water is flowing. The cost has 
been reduced because DEP is providing funding to accomplish this task. This is 
anticipated to start in spring.  
 
7. Ongoing Items: Future Actions from Meeting with CEI (21 April 2022) 
The town is required annually to do elicit discharge detection and elimination 
training for the DPW employees. If a DPW employee finds an outfall that was 
running, and testing shows that it is defective they will be trained in the 
procedure to track down where it’s coming from. CEI has done training in town 
and the Central Mass Stormwater Coalition has also offered training free of 
charge.  
Adam Burney to communicate with Nick Cristofori to get the file with the GIS 
layer information. The file was provided to the prior DPW director, but the new 
DPW director has not gained access yet.  
Encumbering 20,000 dollars from this grant will be used to start the first 2 tasks 
to create information for the Enterprise account. CEI will look at other 
communities that have Enterprise accounts for reference. The Enterprise 
account is beneficial because there is no competition for funding and is typically 
already in the DPW budget. The biggest task for this grant is mapping with aerial 
photography and GIS information to implement the impervious cover model.  
Todd Dwyer wants Bill Bernard to create a spreadsheet with man hours being 
used towards stormwater tasks on a weekly basis. This tracking will help 
calculate what we need for capital funding. 
 
 Website Updates 
No current updates. The town is looking into new website vendors, so this task 
has been put on hold.  
 
8. Items for Next Meeting 
Adam Burney is reaching out to get Nick Cristofori to come to the next meeting 
to review previous work that CEI has already completed. 
Todd asks new members to review annual reports online and all information that 
is already on the website. New members to review info and come to the next 
meeting with questions for the committee and Nick Cristofori.  
===PAGE 3===
Bill Bernard at DPW has added 2 new employees and is in the process of finding 
1 additional employee. 
 
9. Next Meeting Dates  
October 20 at 7 pm.  
 
10. Public Comment 
Bill Bernard has completed stormwater training with BMPs and will share 
PowerPoint with the committee for additional information. 
 
11. Committee Member Comment 
Discussion about looking into a hybrid option and setting up a zoom room for the 
next meeting. Adam Burney will speak to Dan about possibly setting this up as an 
option.   
 
12. Adjourn 
Motion to adjourn was made at 7:42 PM by John Beale, seconded by Amanda 
Reid. 
 
 
 
 
 