===PAGE 1===
1 
 
Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) 
January 20, 2022 
 
The Stormwater Task Force meeting started at 7:11 PM via ZOOM. 
Start time:  7:11PM 
I. ROLL CALL 
The following members were in attendance via ZOOM: Todd Dwyer (Selectman), Paula Bertram 
(Planning Board), Jack Rabbitt (Conservation), Rob Oliver (DPW), Adam Burney (Land Use), 
Dawn P (Administration), Heather Lemieux (Town Manager). 
Also present but not certified by selectman were Matt Proctor and John Beale. 
 
II. PUBLIC COMMENT 
No comments. 
 
III. TASK FORCE MEMBER COMMENT 
The meeting minutes for November 4th and December 16th have been approved. 
Jack has results from an analysis performed after a rainstorm in regards to Summer Street. Results 
show that sands are washing away, lakes and streams have a lot of pollution coming in. as a result a 
retention pond has been added to Summer Street. 
 
IV. EXPANSION OF SWTF  
John Beal and Matt Proctor will go before the selectman on February 15th. 
 
 
V. DISCUSSION OF SWTF MISSION STATEMENT 
Discussion to update mission statement to include flood planning, phosphorus, and sediment 
information. 
- To do: members need to volunteer to update the statement and get input from other 
stakeholders. 
 
VI. WEBSITE DISCUSSION 
a. Updates/Alterations 
Update the active member list and remove elements that are no longer necessary.  
Jack wants Adam (owner of the website) to work with a couple of other members to 
complete edits. 
b. New Content  
Enhance and expand on the information provided to residents such as dos and don’ts. 
Paula will write a list of possible updates/additions to the website. Will discuss this at 
the next meeting after reviewing the list. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Adam will make a draft of the website with additions to review at the next meeting. 
   Add a link to the meeting minutes page on the stormwater website. 
To do: look into a newsletter or bulletins in the future. 
VII. FUTURE TASK FORCE TASKS 
a. Customer Inputs Tracks & Controlled 
Interest in creating a system to keep track of customer issues/complaints. Information 
has been lost due to vendor changes resulting in being unable to follow up. 
Adam to follow up about complaint/response module including cost.  
b. Central MA Stormwater Coalition – Build a Relationship 
Jack volunteered to start communication with the Central MA Stormwater Coalition. 
c. Structure Stakeholder Outreach  
A stormwater permit is required for over an acre of land. Site plan approval project A 
and R process in review. 
To do: Paula reviews other towns’ bylaws (Tyngsboro). 
Group wants to schedule a workshop with the Planning Board, Conservation 
Commission, and DPW. 
d. Status of Storm Drains Mapping 
Nick C. will add street names to GPS coordinates for easier reading of the storm drain 
map.  
Rob has been working on a data collection application (MRPC). 
Discussion about replacement plan for an older storm drain. There are currently no 
replacement plans.  
To do:  Additional emphasis on record keeping and outsource getting ownership of data 
in case the record system ends. Retain and review CEI’s annual inspections of catch 
basins and detect maintenance of retention pond. 
e. Tracking of Financial Cost & Grant Finding 
To achieve the goals of the mission statement more money will be needed. 
Jack proposes looking into grant programs. Some members feel as though it’s too soon 
and they would need much greater detail to fill in an application such as what problems 
we are trying to address and fix that need to be implemented in order to put together a 
successful grant application. 
Paula will put together a list of specific grants for stormwater for the next meeting.  
Rob will review budgeting as this will be helpful when asking for grants IE: Cost of 
equipment, buildings, and utilities.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
f. Stormwater Key Metrics/Scorecard 
Town of Lunenburg is switching to Microsoft 365. Once this happens a drive will be 
available to deposit and access all documents.  
Discussion about holding a workshop with consultation in the future. 
Group interest in creating a Worksheet detailing catch basin cleaning. This will be used 
to track results. Paula has volunteered to create a spreadsheet with the data that has 
already been collected. 
g. Stormwater Handbook & Acronyms 
Handbooks are available and published on the Mass.gov website.  
 
VII. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE   
The next meeting is scheduled for February 17th. The agenda will reflect and follow up the scope of 
work that consultants are doing.  
 
IX. PUBLIC COMMENT 
No comments. 
a. COMMITTEE 
  -Create a more focused agenda.  
-Clear to-dos with goals and objectives.  
-Obtain budgeting information. 
       b. PUBLIC 
No comments. 
X. ADJOURN 
Meeting ends at 9:07 pm. 
 
 
 