
 INCLUDEPICTURE "/Users/reneeemkey/Library/Group Containers/UBF8T346G9.ms/WebArchiveCopyPasteTempFiles/com.microsoft.Word/page1image52465936" \* MERGEFORMATINET 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Stormwater Task Force
December 28, 2023 
Department of Public Works Building
520 Chase Rd.
7:00 PM

In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting. This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meeting. 

The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use this link to join the public meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Meeting ID: 792 737 0353.If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly.

The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.

Agenda
Open meeting
Election of chair and vice chair 
Public Comment 
Explanation and goals of the SWTF (W. Bernard)
DPW Director Update on Data Collection 
Ongoing Items Asset Management Grant Demonstration Structural BMP Project (W. Bernard)
Items for Next Meeting 
Public Comment












