===PAGE 1===
Stormwater Task Force Minutes 
December 28, 2023 
Dept. of Public Works Building 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Present Members: Member John Beale, DPW Director Bill Bernard, Selectboard Representative Renee 
Emkey, Chair Timothy Willsmer 
 
1. Open meeting 
The meeting opened at 7 PM. 
 
2. Election of Chair and Vice Chair  
Motion to nominate Timothy Willsmer as Chair by Renee Emkey, seconded by John Beale. All in 
favor. 
The vote for Vice Chair was postponed as a member of the board is not present. 
 
3. Public Comment  
No public comment. 
4. Explanation and goals of the SWTF (W. Bernard) 
Bill Bernard put together a PowerPoint that was shared during the meeting and is also available 
on the drive. 
 
Stormwater refers to water that runs off after a rain or snowstorm picking up litter, bacteria, 
chemicals, sand, and other debris as it flows over the land and into storm drains and bodies of 
water. 
The stormwater mission statement that was compiled at the start of the task force is as follows: 
The stormwater task force is charged with the development of a comprehensive 
stormwater management plan that complies with state and federal regulations, 
provides a storm and surface water system that controls damage from storms, protects 
surface water quality and protects the environment. The plan shall determine which 
local agency or agencies will be responsible for implementation, establish the estimated 
cost of the program, as well as provide for the creation of an ongoing funding source to 
enable its success.  
 
5. DPW Director Update on Data Collection  
Last year Bill Bernard started to track stormwater related costs to report back to the Board. 
The spreadsheet recording stormwater related costs was broken down by month, labor cost, 
equipment cost, and cost in number of hours. 
 
===PAGE 2===
In the first year of tracking, there was a total cost of $67,000 spent on stormwater related 
tasks. In FY 23, a total of $72,000 was spent on stormwater related tasks. In the past 6 months, 
a total of $104,000 was spent and there hasn’t been snowfall yet. 
 
The last damaging storm on September 11th a total of $75,000 was spent for clean-up.  
  NEMA, FEMA and DOT requested information regarding the damage on September 11th. 
There needs to be additional research regarding funding and grants related to stormwater.  
 
6. Ongoing Items Asset Management Grant & Demonstration Structural BMP Project (W. Bernard) 
The grant is complete, and the information collected was put into the GIS system. The grant 
paid to collect the data completed by CEI. 
 
The collected that was collected looked at over a thousand features including catch basins, 
manholes, and pipes. All the data was collected between April and September and only about 
25% of the entire system was completed. There are intentions of applying for the grant again 
when applicable.  
 
Renee Emkey questions if there are grants available for maintenance, repair, or replacement of 
anything stormwater related. Bill Bernard believes there may be grants available for 
replacements. 
 
The BMP demonstration location will be at the High School and will consist of a rain garden. Bill 
Bernard has the final plans and is aiming for spring.  A kiosk will be added with an explanation 
of the demonstration. This is a requirement for the permit. 
 
7. Items for Next Meeting 
Items for the next meeting include reaching out to other towns to find their process regarding 
stormwater and if they use enterprise funding. The Board discussed inviting CEI to attend an 
upcoming meeting. 
8. Next meeting 
January 18th at 7PM at the Department of Public Works building. 
9. Public Comment 
No public comment. 
10. Adjourn 
Motion to adjourn by Renee Emkey, seconded by John Beale. All in favor.  
The meeting closed at 8:05 PM. 
 
 