===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Stormwater Task Force Minutes 
May 16, 2024 
 
Dept. of Public Works Building 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Members present: Chair Tim Willsmer, Member John Beale, DPW Director Bill Bernard, 
Conservation Commission Representative Jenny Pewtherer  
Absent members: Select Board Representative Renee Emkey 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
The meeting opened at 7 PM. 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT 
  There was a member of the public looking to give a comment, but it turns out 
 they were looking for a more personal resolution and did not leave any 
 comment.   
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
  There were no announcements.  
 
III. BOARD DISCUSSION  
Outreach presentation 
   John Beale made some changes to his previous presentation and  
  emailed the changes out to the Task Force. Additionally, an appendix  
  was added.  
Bill Bernard questions if there is anything anyone of the Task Force 
members should be working on for the presentation. John Beale 
states not at the moment but if anyone has any recommendations on 
what can be added for content to let him know. 
CEI meeting with Select Board  
  Tim Willsmer questions what that meeting with the Select Board and 
 CEI was about.  Bill Bernard states this meeting has not happened yet 
  but will be scheduled after the Town Meeting and elections. This 
 presentation is about Stormwater utilities and is the start to the 
 education process.  
===PAGE 2===
IV. MEETING MINUTES 
  4/18/24 
There was a motion to approve the minutes by John Beale, seconded 
by Jenny Pewtherer. All in favor. John Beale aye, Tim Willsmer aye, 
Jenny Pewtherer aye.  
 
V. ONGOING BUSINESS 
Highschool BMP 
Bill Bernard states he went to the School Committee meeting and 
gave a presentation about the stormwater demonstration. The 
Committee asked a lot of questions and Bill Bernard reached out to 
Nick Cristofori from CEI to get some answers. After receiving some 
answers, Bill Bernard put them into a Q&A format and provided it to 
the Task Force members. The document consisted of 17 questions 
and answers.  
 
There was a discussion about native plants and suggestions for 
possible plants to be added to the rain garden. The presentation 
included maintenance, plants needed, who will do what work and 
when. 
 
VI. UPCOMING EVENTS 
There were no upcoming events discussed. 
 
VII. ADJOURN 
  There was a motion to adjourn the meeting by John Beale, seconded by 
 Jenny Pewtherer. All in favor. John Beale aye, Tim Willsmer aye, Jenny 
 Pewtherer aye. 
The meeting closed at 7:14 PM. 