===PAGE 1===
Stormwater Task Force 
March 25, 2026 
AGENDA 
Zoom ONLY 
7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised that the Town of 
Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI 
technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of 
meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby 
notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the 
meeting.  
 
This meeting will be held on Zoom Only. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353?omn=88299830276 
Meeting ID: 792 737 0353 
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail address. Note: No participant ID is 
needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and 
app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed  
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Public Comment 
4. Discussion/Vote on Stormwater Utility Bylaw Regarding May 2026 Town Meeting 
5. Discussion on the Future Plans for the Stormwater Utility  
6. Adjourn  