===PAGE 1===
Stormwater Task Force 
February 24, 2026 
AGENDA 
Department of Public Works Building 
520 Chase Rd. 
7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised that the Town of 
Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI 
technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of 
meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby 
notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the 
meeting.  
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly.  
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88115208420?pwd=SQpiMryaipYOy9JAqoiUrWahNFhC22.1  or from a telephone, dial the toll 
free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 881 1520 8420  # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be 
asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users 
may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to 
request to speak.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed  
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Public Comment 
4. Discussion on Stormwater Utility Budget 
5. Discussion on Stormwater Utility Bylaw 
6. Discuss upcoming public information session (scheduled for March 5) 
7. Adjourn  