===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Capital Planning Committee 
November 30, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
 
Location: Ritter Building  
 
Present: Chairperson Tom Alonzo, David Passios, George Martin, and Peter Beardmore. 
Guests: Lunenburg Resident Rhonda Lissio 
Call to Order: Chairperson Tom Alonzo called meeting to order at 6:04 p.m., and read a statement regarding 
the Open Meeting Law and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely, and how to attend and 
participate in those meetings. Link to recorded meeting: https://youtu.be/9sOU_AO8kjc 
Public Comment: none 
Discussion of Capital Planning Requests and Preliminary Prioritization:  
Mr. Alonzo shared an updated plan from the Town Manager concerning projects with the Brooks House, and 
DPW cemetery projects, as well as some school department requests. The Roof, gutters, and exterior doors 
on the Brooks house will be worked on in phases starting with FY24, and wrapping up in FY26. DPW requests 
have been removed, or broken down into individual projects, which now meet capital planning criteria. 
Committee members agreed that headstone restoration is needed, but could be done in phases, and once all 
headstones are restored a plan can be put in place for maintenance. 
Committee members received more information on the Flat Hill Road drainage project request via email on 
the day of the meeting. Cost of engineering will be $10,000 (out of $240,000 request), cost of plans will come 
out of FY23 capital funds. Drainage pipes are located on private property, and DPW/McCarthy Engineering is 
waiting to hear from those property owners. Mr. Alonzo commented that the drainage for the development 
should be the responsibility of the Home Owners Association on the property.  
Costs of some school projects have been updated. THES Exterior Door Replacement is now estimated to cost 
$160,000, THES Security upgrade is now estimated to cost $131,000, and the Primary School Security 
upgrade is now estimated to cost $83,500.  
Mr. Beardmore researched the longevity of the safety film for the windows and found that manufacturers 
provide a ten-year warranty on the commercial grade film.   
Committee members discussed the decision making process on how to rate, and whether to rate some 
requests on the plan.  
Mr. Beardmore expressed his concern over ARPA funding, and the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund, and 
how those sources could be used to fund items on the plan, i.e., the request for an ambulance. Mr. 
Beardmore opined that it should be the Capital Planning Committee’s purview to look at alternative funding 
sources, and that the Town Manager should explain his or her intentions on how funds in the Special Purpose 
Stabilization account are to be spent. 
Approved by Capital Planning Committee 
at Dec. 28, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Beardmore also expressed his concern over the age of the Vertex study, and how the list of repairs to be 
made could conflict with the work of the Municipal Building Design Committee as time goes on. Several 
projects on the capital plan are from the Vertex study, and how to score those projects is challenging for 
committee members.  
Committee members discussed all the requests on the plan. Brooks House requests, the senior center 
parking lot, and protective window film, are items that require more information in order to receive a proper 
ranking/ 
Mr. Alonzo will distribute the list to the rest of the committee so everyone can rank the items as they deem 
fit. 
Action Items For Next Meeting: Prioritization of list, and discussion 
Confirm Subsequent CPC Meetings: Monday, December 5, 2022, 6:00 p.m. at the Ritter Building, December 
14, 2022, 6:00 p.m. at the Ritter Building. 
Public Comment: Mr. Alonzo thanked committee members for a robust discussion on the items on the 
capital plan.  
Adjournment: At 7:52 p.m. Mr. Beardmore motioned to adjourn, Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 