===PAGE 1===
Bylaw Review Committee
September  4 , 2025  Minutes
Members present: Rob Bowen (Chair), Jen Duffy (Vice Chair), Caesar Nuzzolo (Clerk), 
Nancy Gray, Kathy Herrick
Call to Order
Mr. Bowen called the Bylaw Review Committee to order at 6:47PM.
Elect Officers
Mr. Nuzzolo nominated Mr. Bowen for the position of Chair. Mrs. Gray seconded. The 
Committee unanimously voted for Mr. Bowen for the position of Chair.
Mr. Nuzzolo nominated M s. Duffy for the position of Vice Chair. Mrs. Gray seconded. 
The Committee unanimously voted for Mrs . Duffy  for the position of Vice Chair.
Mr s. Gray nominated Mr. Nuzzolo  for the position of Clerk . Ms. Duffy  seconded. The 
Committee unanimously voted for Mr. Nuzzolo  for the position of Clerk .
General Discussion
Mr. Bowen brought up the Draft Financial Policies currently under review by the Town 
and that the draft policies should be reviewed to ensure alignment with the Charter and 
Bylaws. Mr. Bowen further stated he has done an initial review of these draft policies 
and that there were some inconsistencies. Mr. Bowen will raise these inconsistencies 
with the Town Manager.
The Committee reviewed the draft email to be sent out to 
Boards/Committees/Commissions to solicit feedback from them regarding their 
respective Bylaws. The Committee discussed a deadline to include  for this feedback 
and decided on December 1, 2025  and that the Committee can still begin a preliminary 
review of Bylaws until feedback is collected. Mr. Bowen will further review the letter  and 
Ms. Herrick will send it out to Boards/Committees/Commissions.
The Committee discussed the process by which they will follow to review Bylaws. The 
Committee decided it will begin with “Part 1: Administrative Legislation ” at their next 
meeting.
Ms. Herrick will print out  copies of the Bylaws and members can pick them up at her 
office.
===PAGE 2===
The Committee discussed how recommended Bylaw changes will be presented at Town
Meeting and that it depends on the nature of the recommended changes. Changes may 
be presented as an “omnibus ” package or be separated in separate recommendations 
to be voted on separately if determined that would be appropriate.
Set next meeting(s) date, time, place
The Committee decided to meet once a month for the remainder of the year and 
potentially more frequently next spring to prepare for Annual Town Meeting.
The Committee agreed that 6:45pm is a good time to hold meetings of the Committee.
Adjourn
Mr. Nuzzolo motioned to adjourn at 7: 26pm . Mrs. Gray seconded. The Committee voted 
unanimously to adjourn.