===PAGE 1===
Bylaw Review Committee
October 2, 2025  Minutes
Members present: Rob Bowen (Chair), Jen Duffy (Vice Chair), Caesar Nuzzolo  (Clerk), 
Nancy Gray, Kathy Herrick
Call to Order
Mr. Bowen called the Bylaw Review Committee  to order at 6:47PM .
Public Comment
Mr. Bowen asked if there were any public comments. There were no public comments.
Update on Request to Town Committees and Stakeholders
The Committee reviewed  the email that will be sent out to 
Boards/Committees/ Commissions to solicit feedback on their respective bylaws.
Mr. Nuzzolo move d  to approve the language of the email and authorize  the  Town Clerk 
to send it on behalf of Committee . Ms. Duffy seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously.
Preliminary Review of Bylaws
The Committee began reviewing “Part  1 : Administrative Legislation ” of the Town ’s 
Bylaws.
The Committee discussed the Select Board ’s  recent vote to delegate enforcement 
authority of Chapter 232  Unregistered Vehicles to the Building Commissioner and 
whether or not  the Bylaw should be modified to reflect this . The Committee determined  
the Select Board should remain the enforcing authority since a vote delegating this 
authority could be undone.
The C ommittee discussed updating the header  in   the table under § 1-3 Noncriminal 
Disposition entitled “Enforcing Person ” to  “Enforcing Authority ” since some of the 
enforcing authorities are committees, not individuals.
===PAGE 2===
The Committee discussed the term “DPW Director or designated agent ” and whether or 
not  all enforcing authorities are able to  designate  authority. If this is the case  then the 
Committee agreed the term “or designated agent ” should be removed.
The Committee discussed the current fines and whether or not  they should be modified. 
The Committee agreed to reach out to enforcing authorities to ask.
The Committee discussed  the need to ensure  Chapter 12 Boards, Commissions and 
Committees  aligns with the contents of the Charter. The Committee discussed Chapter 
12 Article II Building Committee , specifically at which point in the building project does a 
Building Committee need to be created. The Committee also discussed  the Municipal 
Building Design Committee  and how it technically does not qualify as a “Building 
Committee ” defined in this bylaw, but rather a separate committee reviewing the overall 
building needs of the Town and agreed that no update to this section needed to be 
made to reflect this .
The Committee discussed Chapter 5 § 5-1  Records and minutes : noting the timelines 
defined for Boards/Committees/Commissions to submit their minutes to the Town Clerk.
The Committee discussed the need for Boards /Committees/Commissions to r eview  their
respective B ylaw s  and  recommend changes, however that  The Bylaw Review 
Committee should standardize language between the sections for all 
Boards/Committees/Commissions, particularly language around membership .
The Committee discussed whether or not  living in T own  was required for membership to
serve as a volunteer and whether or not  a B ylaw that sets minimum requirements of 
membershi p across all Boards/Committees/Commissions was needed. Ms. Duffy will 
review these sections and draft standardized language  to review next meeting .
The Committee discussed “o fficial minutes ” defined in Article I Town Clerk  §  60-6  and 
what exactly qualified a set of minutes as official.  The Committee discussed the need to 
ensure the Town maintains a backup of all agendas and minutes other than the Town 
website, as the data stored there could be lost someday.
The Committee discussed § 70-10  and replacing the word “bump ” with a more 
professional word. The Committee also discussed the use of terms such as “calendar 
day ” and “working day ” and the need to  go  through the Bylaw and ensure the correct 
terminology is used in each instance. The Committee discussed using terms such as 
“days excluding weekends and holidays ” to add specificity.
General Discussion of Progress, Timeline
===PAGE 3===
The Committee decide d  to review approximately the first 20 pages of Part II: General 
Legislation during the next meeting.
Set next meeting(s) Date, Time, Place
The Committee decided to meet on October 30 th  at  6:45 pm.
Public Comment
Mr. Bowen asked if there were any public comments. There were none.
Adjourn
Mr. Nuzzolo  motion ed to  adjourn at 7:57pm. Mrs. Gray  second ed. The Committee voted 
unanimously to adjourn.