===PAGE 1===
Agreement
between
Lunenburg Cafeteria Workers
And
Lunenburg School Committee
July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2026
===PAGE 2===

===PAGE 3===
TABLE OF CONTENTS
AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 1: Scope and Coverage
ARTICLE 2: Grievance Procedure
ARTICLE 3: Job Posting & Bidding
ARTICLE 4: Hours of Work and Overtime
ARTICLE 5: Holidays
ARTICLE 6: Vacation
ARTICLE 7: Temporary Leaves
ARTICLE 8: Jury Pay
ARTICLE 9: Health & Welfare
ARTICLE 10: Classification Plan & Pay Rates
ARTICLE I1: School District's Rights
ARTICLE 12: Miscellaneous Provisions
ARTICLE 13: Term of the Contract
APPENDIX A: Cafeteria Coordinator
APPENDIX A: salary Schedules
Page
2
2
5
6
8
8
9
10
10
11
11
12
14
14
1
===PAGE 4===
ARTICLE 1
SCOPE AND COVERAGE
This agreement between the Lunenburg Schools (the "District") and the Lunenburg Cafeteria Employees
(the "Association") shall govern the subjects of required bargaining pursuant to M.G.L. c. 150E. The
bargaining unit shall consist of full-time and regular part-time cafeteria employees in the positions of
general worker and cook-manager, and shall exclude all temporary, casual, confidential, substitute,
supervisory, and managerial employees, and all other employees of the district. Employees regularly
scheduled for less than 10 hours per week are not part of the unit. Unless otherwise specified in this
agreement, employees regularly scheduled for less than 15 hours per week will not be entitled to leave
benefits (e.g., vacation, sick, holidays, etc.) or enhanced pay benefits (e.g., longevity, step increases,
etc.). Part-time employees will have their benefits and pay enhancement pro-rated based upon the number
of regularly scheduled hours per week.
ARTICLE 2
GRIEVANC PROCEDURE
The purpose of this Article is to provide an orderly method for the settlement of certain disputes
between the parties, limited to those over a claimed violation of a specific provision of this Agreement.
Such a dispute shall be defined as a grievance under this Agreement and must be processed in accordance
with the following steps, time limits, and conditions herein set forth. If a grievance affects a group or a
class of employees from more than one school, the Association may commence a grievance on behalf of
such a group or class at Step 2 by submitting the grievance in writing to the Superintendent. Said
grievance shall describe the group or class of employees affected
Grievances concerning suspensions and other discipline may be brought under the procedure set
forth in this Article. However, should an employee elect to pursue any statutory arbitration remedy,
including arbitration pursuant to M.G.L. c. 71, §42D, such arbitration shall be the exclusive remedy for
the discipline at issue.
c. In general, letters issued by the District are not grievable, even if the letter points out a performance
issue with which the employee disagrees. In such a case, the employee's sole remedy shall be to submit
a rebuttal to the letter which will be kept with the file copy of the letter. Such a rebuttal must be submitted
within 15 calendar days of the date that the letter is delivered.
D. All grievances filed at Step I and 2 of the grievance procedure shall specify:
a.
b.
C.
d.
the particular contract article and section alleged to have been violated;
the facts supporting each alleged violation in reasonable detail;
the date each act or omission violating the Agreement is alleged to have occurred; and,
the remedy sought for each alleged contract violation.
2
===PAGE 5===
The Steps of the Grievance procedure shall be as follows.
STEP 1:
The employee shall submit his/her grievance in writing to the building principal within 15
calendar days of the date that the employee or the Association knew or should, with the exercise
of reasonable diligence, have known of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance. Within 10
calendar days of the filing of the grievance, the principal or his/her designee shall meet with the
aggrieved employee. If the aggrieved employee requests an Association representative shall be
given an opportunity to be present at a time agreeable to the parties. The principal or his/her
designee shall provide a decision in writing within 5 business days of the conclusion of such
meeting.
STEP 2:
If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the Association may appeal it by giving a written notice
of such appeal to the Superintendent of Schools within 10 calendar days after the Principal's
written answer. The Superintendent shall discuss it with the Association representative at a time
agreeable to the parties. The aggrieved employee may also attend and participate in this
discussion unless it concerns a group or class of employees. The Superintendent or his/her
designee shall give his/her written answer to the grievance within 5 school days after the close
of the discussion.
STEP 3:
If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, the Association may request a hearing before the School
Committee, by submitting a written request, which may include a written summary of the basis
of the grievance, to the Superintendent within 10 calendar days of the Step 2 response. The
Superintendent will present the request to the School Committee in executive session at the next
available meeting, and shall communicate the School Committee's decision to the Association in
writing within 5 days of the decision. If the decision is a denial of the request, then the
Superintendent's written notification of the denial to the Association shall serve as the District's
Step 3 response for the purposes of this Article. Should the School Committee agree to hear the
grievance, the hearing will be held at or before the next available meeting after the meeting at
which decision to hear the grievance is made. If the School Committee elects to have a
subcommittee hear the grievance, then the hearing shall be scheduled at a time mutually agreeable
to the parties. Thereafter, the Committee's written Step 3 response shall be due within 30 calendar
days after the hearing.
F.The parties agree to follow each of the foregoing steps in the processing of the grievance; and if at any
step the District fails to give its written answer within the time limit therein set forth, the grievance shall
be deemed to be denied, and the Association may appeal the grievance to the next step at the expiration
of such time limit. Failure of the Association at any step to process according to the time limits set forth
herein shall mean that the Association has waived the grievance, and the right to proceed further.
G. The settlement or remedy of a grievance, including any monetary or back pay remedy, in any case,
shall not be made retroactive for any period prior to 15 days before the date the grievance was first
presented in writing.
3
===PAGE 6===
H.
Arbitration
If the dispute or grievance is not settled in the foregoing steps and it involves the
claimed violation of an arbitrable provision of this Agreement, then the Association may
seek arbitration by filing a written demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration
Association. The demand shall be filed with the American Arbitration Association within
15 days of the District's answer in Step 2, unless Step 3 review has been requested, in
which case, the demand must be filed within 15 days of the District's answer in Step 3.
b.
The arbitration proceeding will be conducted under the rules of the American
Arbitration Association. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to subtract
from, modify, change or alter any of the provisions of this Agreement. The award shall
be final and binding on the School District, the Association, and the grievant.
Each party shall bear the full cost for its representation in the arbitration and the
remaining costs will be shared equally between the parties. If either party desires a
verbatim record of the proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made providing it
pays for the record and makes copies available to the other party, and to the arbitrator.
Any decision which requires the payment of monies which are not available
without proper budgetary action, shall not be acted upon until the necessary budgetary
action is taken. The Committee acknowledges a responsibility, if there are insufficient
funds at the time of an enforceable award, to include such funds in the next budget it
adopts.
e.The decision of the arbitrator shall not violate any statutes of the Commonwealth, or regulations
pursuant to such statutes.
t. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding and may be reviewed in court under G.L. c.
150C, or on the grounds that the award: (I) is arbitrary or capricious, or (2) misinterprets
or misapplies any provision of law. The dispute, as stated in the request for arbitration,
shall constitute the sole and entire subject matter to be heard by the arbitrator, unless the
parties agree in writing to modify the scope of the hearing.
8. The following matters shall not be subject to grievance-arbitration under this Agreement or
other recourse:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
Any matter involving the exercise of discretion accorded management under this
agreement;
Disputes over alleged unlawful discrimination;
Changes in job descriptions or assigned duties;
Any incident which occurred or failed to occur prior to the effective date of this
Agreement.
4
===PAGE 7===
ARTICLE 3
JOB POSTING AND BIDDING
Section 1: Postings
Whenever a position covered by this Agreement becomes vacant, notice of the vacancy shall be posted
in a conspicuous place in each school listing the pay, duties and qualifications. Such notice shall be
posted for seven (7) working days, during which interested employees may apply in writing. Under
normal conditions, the award of the position will be made within forty-five (45) days. For the purposes
of this Agreement, 'vacancy' shall be defined as a position that is funded in the budget that the District
has decided to fill.
Section 2: Selection
The selection of an employee or person to fill the vacancy shall be based on qualification
and ability. Where qualifications and ability are relatively equal, seniority shall be the
determining factor. In the event the senior applicant is not selected, she/he shall be entitled, upon
request, to reasons in writing why she/he was not selected, or to a personal interview with the
Superintendent of Schools. The Committee and/or the Superintendent shall be the sole judge of
qualifications and ability.
The Cafeteria Manager of the kitchen, where a vacancy occurs, along with the Cafeteria
Supervisor, will be involved in the interview process of potential candidates, The Cafeteria
Supervisor will recommend to the Superintendent of Schools a qualified candidate. The final
selection shall be with the Superintendent.
Section 3: Seniority
a.
The principle of seniority shall govern and control in the cases of increase or decrease of
the working force.
The principle of seniority will be considered in all cases of promotion or transfer within
the cafeteria staff.
C.
Seniority shall mean length of continuous service in the Food Service System as a whole in the
Lunenburg Schools.
d.
In the event of the decrease of the work force, the least senior Employee in the job title
affected by the layoff shall be laid off first.
e.
Such senior Employee due to be laid off shall have the right, provided she/he is qualified,
to bump other Employees in the same or lower classifications who have less seniority. Laid off
Employees shall have recall rights for one year. The most senior Employee laid off shall be
recalled first.
Section 4: Promotions.
5
===PAGE 8===
a. An employee promoted to a bargaining unit position above a general worker shall be given a trial and
training period in the new position of up to 6 months, During this time, should the employer
determine that the employee is not qualified, able or willing to perform job duties, then the
employer may return to employee to his/her previous position and pay rate. School vacations and
absences of one week or more will not count towards the six months.
b A promoted employee will be paid at the lowest step of the new position unless that pay rate is less
than or equal to the rate the employee was paid in the lower position. In such case, the employee
Will be placed on the lowest step with pay higher than the employee's previous rate. The
employee's anniversary date will not be affected by a change in position under this section.
ARTICLE 4
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1
The workweek for payroll purposes shall begin on Sunday at 12:01 a.m. and continue for seven (7)
consecutive days. The regular hours for each day shall be consecutive, except for interruptions for lunch
periods. The normal work is Monday through Friday, with two (2) consecutive days off on Saturday and
Sunday.
Section 2
Schedules of employees shall be established. However, the school administration reserves the right to
alter these schedules to serve the best interest of the Food Service operation. Such changes will not be
made capriciously. If permanent changes are contemplated, the Employees will be notified.
Section 3
In cases where school is canceled due to adverse weather conditions or other emergencies, all cafeteria
employees are not expected to report to work.
Section 4
Time actually worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day, and/or any time
worked for outside activities shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid at the rate of time and
one-half the employee's regular rate of pay.
Section 5
Insofar as possible, overtime work for the coverage of events or functions will be on a voluntary basis.
There will be no discrimination against an employee who does not volunteer to work overtime. When
there are not sufficient volunteers to cover such events or functions, employees can be required to work
overtime, but such required overtime shall not exceed eight (8) hours per week. Employees, who work
on events or functions, will be paid for such work not later than ten (10) working days after the day on
which the work is performed.
Section 6
6
===PAGE 9===
Any employee called back to work on the same day after having completed her/his assigned work and
having left her/his place of employment, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours
worked on recall. She/he will be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours work and pay at time and one-
half provided the call back is not the result of the employee's own negligence.
Section 7
Employees who work Monday through Friday, when scheduled to work on Saturday, Sunday, or
holidays, shall be paid time and one-half the employee's regular rate of pay for all hours worked. The
employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours work or pay.
Section 8
Employees may be required to work overtime on non-school activities which fall on Sunday's, holidays,
or evenings before holidays, When sufficient numbers of employees have not volunteered to work on
non-school activities the night prior to the holiday, or the holiday, or on Sunday, the Committee may
employ personnel outside the cafeteria staff.
Section 9
Except in emergency situations, employees may not be required to work overtime in any case where
outside groups have failed to give forty-eight (48) hours' notice of a new or changed meeting date.
Section 10
The administration shall make a good faith effort to equally and impartially distribute overtime work
among personnel in each school who perform such related work in the normal course of their workweek.
Section 11
The employer shall keep records of overtime worked. Such records, upon written request, shall be made
available to the Employees for examination during work hours.
Section 12
The cafeteria employee, on duty at events or functions, shall have a copy of the application for the use
of the school facilities.
Section 13
No cafeteria employee shall leave the school premises during working hours without the express
permission of the Superintendent of Schools or her/his designee, or in her/his absence, the Principal
7
===PAGE 10===
ARTICLE 5 HOLIDAYS
Section 1
All cafeteria employees covered by this Agreement will be paid their regular day's pay at regular straight
time wages for the following holidays:
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Presidents Day
Patriots Day
Memorial Day
Christmas Day
*Juneteenth holiday will be paid to the employees whenever the holiday is celebrated the week day
immediately following the last day of school or before the last of school
Section 2
In order to eligible for payment for such holidays, the employee must have worked a full regular shift
on the work day immediately preceding and a full regular shift on the work day immediately following
such holiday. Absence on one or both of these days shall not affect eligibility for holiday pay if such
absence is proved with the submission of a note from a medical doctor.
Section 3
Paid holidays shall be considered as time worked
ARTICLE 6
VACATION
Section 1
Full-time and regular full-year part-time employees (regularly scheduled to work 15 hours or more per
week) shall earn paid vacation at the rates set forth in the following schedule, based on continuous service
to the school district.
Less than 5 years
5 years or more
/ days per year
11 days per year
Section 2
Vacation shall be credited each July 1, based upon service to the District during the preceding year. The
employee's place on the vacation schedule shall be based upon the anniversary date for completed years
of service reached during the previous fiscal year.
Section 3
Employees accrue, but may not use vacation during their first 6 months. An employee, who reaches the
six month mark before being credited with vacation on July 1, may be permitted, in the discretion of the
District, to use accrued vacation, with the understanding that the July I credit of earned vacation will be
reduced by any vacation used prior to that date.
Section 4
Vacation leave shall be granted by the administration at times that best serve the interests of the school
district. Vacation leave must be requested in advance, in accordance with procedures determined by the
district, and may be taken only if approved by the Superintendent or designee. Generally vacation time
8
===PAGE 11===
must be taken when school is not in session, but the Superintendent may waive this limitation upon
request.
Section 5
An employee may, with the permission of the Superintendent, carry over to the following fiscal year up
to 2 days of unused vacation leave, provided, that the employee's total accrual of unused vacation does
not exceed 14 days total at any time. Accrued unused vacation will be paid upon separation from
employment
ARTICLE 7
TEMPORARY LEAVES
Section 1: Sick Leave
All persons permanently employed whether full-time or regularly part-time (minimum of fifteen (15)
hours per week) and who have completed their three (3) months continuous service probationary period,
shall be entitled to sick leave and shall receive retroactive credit to the first day of employment. All such
leaves must be caused by sickness or injury or by exposure to contagious disease and may not be
authorized or permitted if such sickness or injury or disability was self-imposed such as that resulting
from the use of alcohol or drugs. Cumulative sick leave shall be credited as of September I each year.
a.
For personal illness of the employee, each employee shall be entitled to twelve (12) days sick
leave per year cumulative to one hundred eighty (180) working days.
b.
The Superintendent, at her/his discretion, may require certification by a physician for an
employee to qualify for sick leave.
C.
When an employee finds it necessary to be absent because of sickness, she/he shall report the
fact to the Cook/Manager, or Superintendent of Schools or her/his designee, as soon as possible.
Sick leave will not be granted unless such report is made. Sick leave benefits are not payable
upon termination or retirement.
d.
Employees absent because of industrial accident shall be entitled to convert any unused vacation
credit in that year to cover the absence. An employee absent because of an industrial accident
shall be entitled to convert any unused vacation leave available, so that when added to her/his
workman's compensation payments, she/he shall receive payment equal to her/his full salary.
e. Employees shall be notified, in writing, of the number of sick days accumulated. Notification to each
employee shall be in the month of September.
f. An employee may use up to five (5) of his/her available sick days per year for illness of a member of
the employee's immediate family which necessitates the employee's absence from school.
Immediate family means the employee's spouse, or the parent or child of the employee or spouse.
g-Employees will be required to use accrued paid leave, such as sick or vacation leave, or compensatory
time, to cover some or all of the FMLA leave. When paid leave is used, the employee must follow the
9
===PAGE 12===
Town's paid leave policies and procedures with respect to such leave. Should a district-wide sick bank
be established, employees covered under this document would be allowed to participate providing they
request participation in writing to the Superintendent of Schools.
Section 2: Bereavement Leave
a.
For death in the immediate family of the employee an absence up to five (5) working days shall
be granted by the Superintendent for that purpose.
b.
The immediate family is to be construed as spouse and children, spouse's children, mother, father,
grandparent, grandchild, sister, brother, parent-in-law, or any other person who resides within the
same household.
C.
In the event of death of other close relative, one (l) day may be granted at the discretion of the
Superintendent of Schools. A close relative is defined as niece, nephew, brother in-law, sister-in-
law, aunt, uncle, or grandparent of spouse.
Section 3: Personal & Emergency Leave
1. Each employee shall be allowed a maximum of three (3) personal days off per school year
with pay to handle personal business or emergency use. Personal leave will be prorated for
new employees hired after the school year begins based on the new employee's start date
and a ten-month school year.
2. Personal business means important appointments or other important matters that cannot be
scheduled to occur outside the employee's work day or work year, including required court
appearances, funerals of close friends or relatives, bona fide religious holidays, closing on a
house, and other similar matters.
3. Personal leave will not be granted the first five days of the school year, during the last five
days of the school year, or immediately preceding or following school vacation periods or
holidays unless it is to be used in lieu of sick days in cases of family or personal illness, or
bereavement of an individual.
4. Requests for personal days must be made to the Superintendent, or designee, through the
employee's manager in charge at least three (3) school days prior to the requested day off.
Request must be made in writing with the district approved form. In case of emergency, and
employee may request a personal day with such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances, and in such cases the grant or denial of the personal day shall be in the
discretion of the Superintendent of Schools. Employee may be asked to provide documentation
to support the request.
5. An employee who takes a personal day off without properly requesting and obtaining
approval for that day will not be paid for that day, and may be subject to further disciplinary
action.
6. Personal days cannot be carried over from year to year.
10
===PAGE 13===
All requests shall be made, in writing, and whenever possible, prior to the time taken off. Personal leave
will not be granted generally the first five days of the school year, during the last five days of the school
year, or immediately preceding or following school vacation periods or holidays without approval of the
Superintendent.
ARTICLE 8 JURY PAY
All persons permanently employed, whether full or part-time, called for jury duty who miss normally
scheduled working time required by the court shall be paid an amount equal to the difference between
the regular straight time compensation paid for that time and the amount paid by the court, excluding
allowance for travel, and this will be certified by the Superintendent upon presentation of the check for
monies received for jury duty. As a condition of receiving this, the person may be required to submit
evidence of such service.
ARTICLE 9
HEALTH AND WELFARE
Employees covered by this contract who work twenty or more hours per week shall be eligible to
participate in the present Group Health Insurance Plan and life insurance plans in accordance with the
provisions of said plans in force and effect for employees of the Town of Lunenburg or in any
comparable plans subsequently established to cover solely employees of the Town of Lunenburg
ARTICLE 10
CLASSIFICATION PLAN AND PAY RATES
The Classification and Pay Plan shall be APPENDIX A of this contract. It shall list all positions
covered by this Agreement by title along with the salary rates and number of step-rate increases for
each position.
It IS agreed that the Committee may withhold step increases if the Committee feels the efficiency of the
cafeteria worker's efforts are poor. The employee will be given specific reasons for such withholding of
increment and will be given periodic reports on the efficiency of her/his work by the Superintendent of
Schools or her/his designee.
ARTICLE 11
SCHOOL DISTRICT's RIGHTS
The laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts vest responsibility for the quality of education
and the efficient and economical operation of the Lunenburg Public Schools in the School Committee
and the Superintendent of Schools (collectively, the "District"). Therefore, except as specifically and
directly modified by express language in a specific provision of this Agreement, the District retains all
rights and powers that it has or may hereafter be granted by law in managing the public schools and
11
===PAGE 14===
directing the working force and may exercise the those rights and powers at its discretion without any
such exercise being made the subject of a grievance except as expressly provided in this agreement.
b.
The District's rights and powers include but are not limited to: the establishment of rules and
regulations; the right to determine the extent to which work will be performed by members of the
cafeteria staff; the right to hire, fire, suspend, or in any other manner discipline; to classify, promote,
demote, transfer permanently or temporarily; to determine hours for and the number of employees
required at any location; to determine the qualifications and competence of employees; to assign any
added, lessened or differed work or responsibility to employees; to set standards and requirements
applicable to and make determination of the pay steps; to make any pay deduction because of absence,
or failure to perform work by any employee; and, to introduce new, or to change existing operational
methods.
ARTICLE 12
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
1. Upgraded Pay
Should the District temporarily assign a general worker to the position of manager for more than '/2 day,
said employee shall receive an additional $15.00 on the employee's daily wage for the work day.
2. Longevity Pay
Longevity will be awarded on the employment anniversary date for permanent employees working 20
hours per week or more. Longevity compensation will be added to the hourly pay rate based upon the
following scale:
10-14 years of service: 2.0% additional on the hourly rate
15-19 years of service: 2.5% additional on the hourly rate
20+ years of service:
3.0% additional on the hourly rate
Workshops
Cafeteria Managers and another qualified employee from each kitchen must hold ServSafe@ certificates.
Should the District be unable to provide ServSafe@ Training for the Cafeteria Manager and another
qualified employee, the District will reimburse managers and employees for their training up to $300.00.
When cafeteria employees are required by the administration to attend workshops during working hours,
they shall suffer no loss of pay. An employee attending a workshop on a day off or after normal working
hours shall be paid at her/his regular hourly rate. If an employee is required to use her/his automobile to
travel to a workshop, she/he will be compensated. There shall be no meetings during break time.
4. Uniforms
Each employee permanently employed will receive three hundred and fifty dollars ($350) per year, paid
no later than the last check of September for a clothing allowance to defray the cost of uniforms as set
forth in this contract. New employees will receive a prorated uniform allowance based upon a ten-month
work year. Uniforms should be loose fitting with black or white slacks covering the legs, a collared or
crew neck top in any color and an apron. Uniforms are to be of a material equal to 50% cotton and 50%
12
===PAGE 15===
polyester or other combinations approved by the Superintendent of Schools or her/his designee. Jeans
are not allowed. Hair coverings in compliance with health regulations and approved by the
Superintendent of Schools or her/his designee must be worn at all times. Shoes worn with nylons or
socks must be black or white in color and must be closed toed with non-skid soles. Sneakers or canvas
shoes, sandals, or other open toe shoes are not permitted. The school department reserves the right to
specify the type of shoe worn. Jewelry must be kept to a minimum. Wedding and engagement rings,
plain necklaces and earrings, without dangling parts, are permitted. Fingernails must be trimmed short
and without nail polish. Artificial nails are not allowed. Gloves must be worn at all times during food
preparation or whenever food is handled. Employees will be responsible for the purchase of all uniform
components.
During the term of this contract when the school district seeks bids for food service providers to
manage and direct the Lunenburg School Lunch Program, the cafeteria managers will be asked for input
regarding program needs prior to bidding.
6. Cafeteria employees will not be required to transport money to the bank or Town Hall after it has
been accounted for within the Lunenburg Public Schools.
Cafeteria employees may consume a school lunch at no cost during workdays when lunch is
served.
8. The Food Service Director will meet and evaluate new employees in writing. This evaluation will
be conducted on or before the six month anniversary of the new employee's permanent hire date.
13
===PAGE 16===
ARTICLE 13
Terms of the Contract
Section 1: Effective Date
This agreement shall cover the term July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2026. All terms, other than
Wages, which are retroactive to July 01, 2023 pursuant to Appendix A, shall be prospective from
ratification. The Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2026.
The foregoing Agreement is made, subject to ratification by the School Committee and the Association,
and funding by the District.
LUNENBURG CAFETERIA
LUNENBURG SCHOOL
WORKERS
on barts
blix argum
Marlenetbaglual
'OMMITTEE
lause cuchambault
Rama Baggati
11-1•23
The position of Cafeteria Coordinator will be posted and appointed annually by the District. The cafeteria
coordinator will perform duties as assigned by the Superintendent of Schools. The cafeteria coordinator
will be paid an annual stipend of $ 1,500
14
===PAGE 17===
Schedule A
Food Service Salary Schedule
2022-2023
Cook/Managers
General Workers
2023-2024
1.025
Cook/Managers
General Workers
2024-2025
1.025
Cook/Managers
General Workers
2025-2026
1.025
Cook/Managers
General Workers
Step 1
15.71
Step 1
Step 1
Step 1
Step 2
16.28
Step 3
16.90
Step 2
new steps
Step 3
нер
new steps
Step 3
Step 4
17.60
15.53
Step 1
Step 4
18.04
15.92
Step 1
Step 4
18.49
16.32
Step 5
18.27
15.84
Step 2
Step 5
18.73
16.24
Step 2
Step 5
19.19
16.64
Step 2
new steps
Step 3
Step 1
Step 4
18.95
16.72
Step 2
Step 5
19.67
17.06
These rates need to be verified by Town Hall.
Step 6
18.96
16.46
Step 3
Step 6
19.43
16.87
Step 3
Step 6
19.92
17.29
Step 3
Step 6
20.42
17.73
Step 7
19.52
16.96
Step 4
Step 7
20.01
17.38
Step 4
Step 7
20.51
17.82
Step 4
Step 7
21.02
18.26
Step 5
Step 8
20.52
17.89
Step 5
Step 8
21.03
18.34
Step 5
Step 8
21.56
18.80
===PAGE 18===

===PAGE 19===

===PAGE 20===
