===PAGE 1===
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR THE LUNUNBURG PARAPROFESSIONAL UNTI
BETWEEN
AFSCME COUNCIL. 93. AFL-CIO. LOCAL. 503
AND
THE LUNENBURG SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The Lunenburg School Committee (the "District" or the "Committee") and AFSCME Council 93, Local 503
"the Union") hereby agree to a new one year contract for the Lunenburg Paraprofessional unit to be in effect
from July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025. Except as modified in this Memorandum, the terms and conditions of
the previous contract will be carried forward into the new contract.
1. Cover page
Change dates to reflect a new one (I) year agreement from "July 1. 2024", to "June 30, 2025".
2. Agreement
Change "2021" to "2024"
3. Association
Replace all references throughout the contract to "Association" with "Union"
4. Gender Neutral Language
Change gender specific pronouns "to they/them/theirs; parent-in-law, sibling, child, spouse
5. Article V- Professional Development
Revise section 5-3, 2nd current sentence as follows:
Employees may attend designated courses free of charge on a first come first serve basis and job applicability
6. Article VI-Compensation
I. Revise Section 6-l as follows:
Employees shall be paid in accordance with the Salary Schedule set forth in Appendix A.
II. Change the current cost of living rate with the following new cost of living rate of pay:
FY25: Effective July 1, 2024, add 4% to salary schedule in Appendix A.
III. Add the following sentence at the end of current Section 6-3 as follows:
===PAGE 2===
6-3 The Superintendent shall have the discretion to determine the step on which an employee will be hired
within the appropriate classification and may take into account such factors as the Superintendent deems
relevant, which may include prior experience, education, training, market forces, and the needs of the school
district. Any present employee in the same job classification who can document the same or greater skill and
experience as the new employee may appeal their step placement in writing to the Superintendent.
JV. Revise Section 6-6 as follows (increasing compensation for serving as a substitute teacher):
6-6 If an employee is assigned by the District as a substitute teacher for more than 3 hours per day in any
classrooms, the employee shall earn an additional $50.00 on the employee's regular wages, in addition to
regular wages. The employee will be responsible for submitting documentation of these assignments with their
timesheets. If'a paraprofessional is assigned as a long-term substitute (an assignment in excess of 10
consecutive days), they will be paid commensurate with the teacher substitute daily wage.
V. Revise Section 6-9 as follows (toileting/CPI (S360 separated out; $360 toileting stipend, $360 CIP stipend)
6-9 At the beginning of the school year: building principals will assign paraprofessionals special medical and
safety duties assisting students. Such duties will include paraprofessionals who are required to be CPI trained,
assist students with routinely required toileting service. respond to physical interventions, included in the
building response team and/or intensive one to one services. A yearly stipend of three hundred and sixty dollars
($360.00) shall be paid to paraprofessionals who are appointed to either duty. In a case where a
paraprofessional is required to be CPI trained for their specific assignment and also required to toilet, the
paraprofessional shall be paid a $360 stipend for each requirement; a total of $720. The yearly stipend shall be
paid in two increments in January and June, a pro-rated amount paid to a paraprofessional who substitutes for a
paraprofessional with this special assignment after ten consecutive days, or receives a permanent mid-year job
shift and has met the 90-day work criteria.
VI. Replace current Section 6-11 with the following language:
6-11 A committee shall be formed, and work shall commence within three months of the ratification of this one (1)
vear agreement on a restructuring of the salary schedule. This new salary schedule will become the foundation of
the 3-ycar successor agreement (FY26-28; July I, 2025, to June 30, 2028)
7. Article VII- Transfers And Promotions
Delete entire Article altogether
8. Article VIll- Hours of Work
Revise current Section 8-5 as follows:
8.5 Meal Periods- Each full-time employee shall be granted a paid twenty-minute duty-free lunch period.
9. Article XU- Bereavement Leave
Add the following sentence to Section 12 - 1 as follows:
1. 12-1 For death in the immediate family of the employee, an absence of up to five (5) consecutive calendar
days beginning with the date of death shall be granted without loss of pay or other benefits. Immediate Family
shall mean parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling. parent-in-law, or any other person who resides within the
same house.
2
===PAGE 3===
II. Replace current section 12.2 with the following;
12.2 For the death of a spouse or child of the employee, an absence of up to ten (10) consecutive calendar days
beginning with the date of the death shall be granted without loss of pay or other leave benefit.
III. Add new section 12-4 as follows:
12-4 In the event of a death of other close relative, one (1) day will be granted.
10. Article XIIIL- Personal Leave
Revise Section 13-5 as follows:
13.5 Personal days cannot be caried over from year to year; however, unused personal days may be converted
into sick days the following school year.
11. Article XX- Probationary Period
Revise paragraph as follows:
The first three (3) months of an a newly hired employee shall be a probationary period, and during such
probationary period an employee shall hove no recourse under this Agreement should his/her their employment
be terminated.
12. Article XX IL- Holidays
I. Add "Juneteenth" to current holiday table
II. Add new Section 22-4 as follows:
22.4 The District agrees to continue the practice of paying employees full day's pay on the Wednesday before
Thanksgiving.
13. New Article XXIII- Discipline
Add the following new Article language as follows:
23.1 The Employer shall not suspend, demote, or discharge any non-probationary employee without just
cause..
23.2 If the Employer has reason to reprimand an Employee, it shall be done privately. This does not preclude
the Employer from providing feedback or direction to an employee or employees in the moment/publicly.
23.3 In general, letters issued by the District are not grievable, even if the letter points out a performance issue
with which the employee disagrees. In such case, the employee's sole remedy shall be to submit a rebuttal
letter which will be kept with the file copy of the letter. Such a rebuttal must be submitted withing 15 calendar
days of the date that the letter is delivered.
23.4 In case of discharge, of a non-probationary employee, the employee affected may request and shall receive
from the Employer in writing the reason for said dismissal.
23.5 When an employee is discharged by the Employer, the Union shall be promptly notified.
23.6 All copies of warning notices shall be forwarded to the Union office upon request..
14. New Article XXIV- Job Posting
Add the following new Article language as follows:
===PAGE 4===
24.1. Any new position or vacancy shall be announced via internal email and posted on the District's internet
site for not less than seven (7) consecutive working days. Employees shall apply for the posted vacancy as
instructed in the posting.
24.2 The posting shall contain the minimum qualifications and job requirements for the posted position.
24.3. The District will fill the position based on the level of candidate fit with the qualifications, skills or
experience required-for the role.
24.4. Transfers-When the-District deems the transfer of personnel is necessary, the employee may request a
meeting, with union representation if they so choose, to discuss the merits of such transfer and any alternative to
such transfers.
24.5. If the District and the Union are unable to reach agreement on a involuntary transfer plan, the District may.
invoke its management rights to involuntarily transfer employees to ensure the effective administration of the
school academic program.
24.6 Transfers may need to be done on an emergency basis and/or due to critical need with limited notice.
24.7. Wherever possible, transfers to different buildings, employees should be afforded a two-week notice.
15. New Article XXV- Joint Labor Management Committee
Add the following new Article language as follows:
25.1. With the aim of promoting better understanding between the parties, the Employer and the Union agree
that informal meetings between administration and the Union can be held at mutually agreeable times and
places so as to apprise the other problems, concerns, and suggestions related to the operations and the work
force.
25.2 Such meetings shall not be construed as opening the Agreement for negotiations, nor shall any subject
matter at the meetings constitute a step in the grievance procedure..
FOR THE DISTRICT:
You Suraba
Kate Bukham, Superintendent
Anscon
Julianna Vanscom, Dir of Special Services
Melo
Susan Gilson, Director of Administration and Finance
Lawn Pagani
Date
11-6-24
Peter Beardmore, School Committee
11-7-24
Date
11-7-24
Date
11/10/24
11/4/24
Date
4
===PAGE 5===
FOR THE UNION:
tause
Tyler, ion Representalive
Sah Car
Sarah Call, Local 503 President
Li Klingle
erri Klinger bargaining compittee menbe
Allisn Melvim
Allision Melvin, bargaining committee member
Date
19-5-2024
9-11-2024
Date
9-9-2024
Date
9-12-2024
Date
5