===PAGE 84===
84 
 
Sewage disposal system plans reviewed     92 
Sewage disposal system permits issued      58 
 New construction      29  
 Existing construction     29 
Sewage disposal system inspections 109  
Sewage disposal system consultations    0 
Private Well related services 
Well permits issued 20 
Water Quality/ Well Construction    28 
(Private wells are regulated by local regulations: construction plans are review, well sampled and results 
reviewed interpreted) 
Rabies Clinics – Animals Immunized               (Due to COVID-19, clinics were not held in 2020)  
      
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice 
Nashoba’s Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visits provide skilled services to patients in their home under 
physician’s orders.  These services include assessment of physical, psychological, and nutritional needs. Skills 
include teaching/supervision of medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV therapy on a 24 -hour basis, catheter 
care, case management and referral to other services as needed. 
 Nashoba’s Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities of daily living including 
bathing dressing, exercises and meal preparation. 
 Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, and dietary therapeutic interventions 
through assessment, treatment and education.  Their integration of client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at 
attaining maximum functional dependence. 
Nursing Visits   770 
Home Health Aid Visit  24 
Rehabilitative Therapy Visit  494 
Community Health Nursing 
Nashoba’s Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health service to it member 
communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) 16 Standards of Public Nursing Practice.  
Our staff serves as a resource to the community, addressing questions and concerns from the public on a variety 
of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice, chronic disease management, safe drug/sharps disposal etc.) 
in a variety of ways.  This year was very different due to COVID-19.  This office provided the following services 
for District. 
 We conducted contact tracing for our member communities and managed the contact tracing efforts of the 
Contact Tracing Collaborative. 
 We served as a resource for individuals and businesses interpreting the ever changing information on the 
disease and the State’s response to the pandemic. 
 We instructed individuals who tested positive and those who were close contact on the processes of Isolation 
and Quarantine, providing release letters for those who completed each process. 
 We worked with the State laboratory to identify and manage clusters of disease/exposures in the District. 
 We facilitated the State’s involvement in clusters at long term care facilities. 
 
===PAGE 85===
85 
 
 We worked with the school nurses in the District to provided information, offer advice and supporting 
contact tracing in the schools. 
 We are available to collaborate with all municipal staff, including Councils on Aging to address questions on 
COVID-19, exposures and actions which may be necessary to address these exposures.  
 Conducted flu clinics in each community to address the State ’s requirement for school age children and 
make vaccinations available to everyone. 
 We administered 89 flu shots through our annual clinics. 
 We started planning to hold COVID-19 vaccine clinics. 
Nashoba reviewed, investigated and reported on the following cases of communicable diseases from your 
community.  Though the daily reporting and investigating work is not always visible it is vital to protect the 
public from the spread of disease. 
Communicable Disease Number of Cases: 
Babesiosis………………………………………1 
Campylobacteriosis……………………………..1 
Cryptosporidiosis……………………………….1 
Cyclosporiasis…………………………………..1 
Hepatitis C……………………………………...1 
Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis…………….5 
Influenza……………………………………….63 
Lyme Disease………………………………….16 
Salmonellosis……………………………………1 
SARS CoV-2 (COVID-19)…………………...355 
 
Dental Health Department 
Due the challenges presented by COVID-19 the Dental Program was suspended in March. 
===PAGE 86===
86 
 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are dedicated 
to providing the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to the citizens of 
the Town of Lunenburg. 
In 2020, your Fire Department responded to 1955 calls for service, broken down as follows:  
Fires, Alarms & Hazardous Conditions    489                Emergency Medical      962 
Inspections  534                                                                 Other                             18 
 The 2020 Pandemic created one of the most challenging and stressful years in anyone ’s memory.  
Our personnel did not have the option of “Staying at Home. ” We had to make drastic changes in how we 
treated patients and interacted with the public, while still providing the level of service our community has 
come to expect.  This was done while dealing with rapidly changing, and often conflicting information from 
State and Federal officials.  That we experienced only four members testing positive is a testament to 
everyone’s dedication and commitment to serve our community.   My thanks go out to the men and women 
of the Department who persevered through this strange time, and continue to do so today.    
Current Fire Department staffing is now 7 Career and 40 -45 On Call Firefighters and Emergency 
Medical Technicians, plus 1 full–time Administrative Assistant/EMS Coordinator.  The station is manned 7 
days per week with 2 -3 Firefighter/Emergency Medical Technicians.  This coverage is a combination of 
Career personnel in conjunction with 88 hours per week of per diem coverage.  This coverage is provided 
by our Call Firefighter/EMTs staffing the station at their hourly rate.   Staffing the station with dual trained 
Fire/EMS personnel ensures that we are ready to respond to whatever emergency occurs. 
Though we have 24 -hour coverage in the station, many EMS calls and nearly all fire calls still 
require more personnel than are on duty in the station.  This means we still rely heavily on the dedication 
and commitment of our On Call Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians.  Our Call personnel 
remain, and will remain a vital part of our emergency response for years to come.   A new Call Firefighter/
EMT must attend over 340 hours of initial training, plus additional time in orientation and field training.  
Members qualifying to drive Fire Apparatus must complete an additional 65 hours of classroom and 
practical training.  On average, it takes a new member one and a half to two years to full complete this 
training. 
The department continues to move towards the goal of providing our own Paramedic Level 
Ambulance Service.  Though we currently operate two ambulances at the Advanced EMT Level, we must 
still rely on outside agencies to provide Paramedic Level care when needed.  Paramedic training is in excess 
of 2000 hours and requires 1 -½ years of college level classroom education, clinical time and field 
internships to obtain certification.  The department continues to train our newly hired staff to this level and 
recruit licensed Paramedics to fill Career positions when possible.  We had hoped to be providing 
Paramedic Level care by the beginning of 2021, but the COVID Pandemic has pushed that out to Mid-2021.   

===PAGE 87===
87 
 
Members who were in the midst of their Paramedic training lost 6 -7 months due to the training schools 
shutting down.     
In 2020, the Fire Prevention Division conducted 534 Inspections.   This is in addition to multiple fire 
drills and public education initiatives.  By law, we are required to inspect Smoke and Carbon Monoxide 
Detector installations when a home is sold.  We are also required to inspect all new oil burner and propane gas 
installations.  Any business holding an on -premise liquor license also requires a yearly inspection for fire 
safety issues.  In addition, all new construction projects must have their plans reviewed for proper fire 
protection, as well as ongoing inspections during the construction process.  Though the Pandemic altered how 
we conducted these inspections, we never halted them.  Other Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during 2020 
include: 
 Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953 to assist with Fire Safety 
Education in both the Schools and with Senior Citizens.  This grant provides funding for both materials 
and personnel to bring fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations.  Highlights of activity 
through this grant include: 
 Though the Pandemic severely curtailed our interactions with the Schools and the Elderly, we   m    
continued to provide services where and when we could.  We look forward to returning to in person 
presentations and training in 2021. 
  Personnel assisted with several community events, such as the Council on Aging and Lion’s Club       
Thanksgiving Basket programs, The Salvation Army’s “Rescue Christmas” initiative, and the Christmas 
Light Drive Through at the Middle/High School 
 Training to certify personnel as Public Life Safety Educators.  In 2020, Firefighter Melissa Buchanan 
joined Captain James Ricci, Lt. Christos Lekaditis and Firefighter Austin Flagg as the department ’s Life 
Safety Educators. 
 Participation in the Senior Center ’s “Sand for Seniors ” Program.  This program provides buckets of 
walkway sand for Senior Citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the winter months.  In 
partnership with this program, Captain James Ricci delivers the sand to the residents and when possible, 
inspects their homes for Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detectors.  If the resident was lacking detectors, 
Capt. Ricci is able to install free detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant. Despite the Pandemic, 
we modified our procedures to keep this valuable program operating. 
It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent smoke 
detectors. 
Seven Firefighters from Lunenburg continue to be members of the Fire District 8 Technical Rescue and Dive 
Teams.  These regional teams respond to high risk and unusual rescue situations, such as Confined Space, 
Rescue from Heights, Building and Trench Collapse, Swift/Floodwater and Underwater Search and Recovery.  
In conjunction with these Teams, Lunenburg operates both a Water Rescue Unit and a Collapse/Trench 
Rescue Trailer.   
Apparatus replacement continues to move forward.   The replacements for Ladder 1 and Engine 4 were 
received in July and October respectively.  These units are now in full service and will serve the Town for 
many years to come.  This puts the average age of our front line firefighting apparatus at a little over 6 years 
old.  Newer, state of the art apparatus will decrease our maintenance costs and down time.  It also provides 
safer and more reliable equipment for emergency response. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their 
outstanding commitment to the Town.  Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to impress 
me every day.  Especially in the face of one of the most stressful years in anyone ’s memory.  I would also like 
to thank the other department heads, boards and commissions for their continuing help.  The level of 
interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in the daily course of town business in invisible to many people, but 
it is critical to all operations.  Finally, my thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing 
support of public safety.  Such support allows us to continue providing the high level of service you have 
come to expect from us. 
===PAGE 88===
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2020 
 
 
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department+*   
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief 
 
  
 
  Career Firefighters+   
 
A Shift  B Shift  C Shift 
     
Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT*  James Ricci, Captain/EMT  Christos Lekaditis, Lieutenant/AEMT 
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT  Austin Flagg, FF/EMT  Timothy Downey, FF/EMT 
     
  Karen Weller, Administrative 
Assistant/EMS Coordinator+ 
  
 
  Call Firefighters 
 
  
Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT    Patrick Hakey, Lieutneant/EMT 
Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain    J.Gregory Massak, Lieutenant/EMT 
     
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT    Alan Hyatt, Firefighter 
David Augusta, EMT    Ronald Hyatt, FF/EMT 
Robert Barrett, FF/EMT*    Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT 
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT    Matthew McAuliffe, Firefighter 
Andrew Bolton, FF/EMT    Daniel McKenna, FF/EMT 
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT*    Jordan Melendy, EMT 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT    Daniel Motyka, FF/EMT 
Melissa Buchanan, FF/EMT    Stephen Morse, FF/EMT 
Frank Byrne, FF/Paramedic    Timothy O’Connell, FF/EMT 
Joseph Cardone, EMT    Tyler Pelkey, FF/Paramedic 
Charles Colburn, FF/AEMT*    Charles Sampson, EMT 
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*    Jenny Smith, Firefighter 
Paul A. Duquette, FF/EMT*    Michael Virostko, FF/EMT 
Carl Gamberdella, FF/EMT    Stephen Wright, FF/EMT 
Matthew Glenny, FF//EMT     
Olivia Hayes, FF/EMT     
     
 
+ Indicates Full Time Staff 
*Indicates member of District 
Technical Rescue Team 
 
===PAGE 89===
89 
 
 
 
LUNENBURG POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 90===
90 
 
 
Administration 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel 
Lt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau 
Public Safety Coordinator Amanda Moore 
 
Patrol Bureau 
Day Shift 
Sgt. Joshua Tocci (K9-Jerry) 
Off. Jack Wagner 
Off. Gage Russell 
Off. Anthony Cappucci 
Desk Officer Off. Lisa Melnicki 
 
Evening Shift 
Sgt. Joshua Mathieu 
Off. Jonathan Broc 
Off. John Morreale 
Off. Kayla Leger 
 
Night Shift 
Sgt. Sean W. Zrate 
Off. Kamerin Munroe 
Off. Ramon Cabrera 
Vacant (FY21) 
 
Split Shift 
Sgt. Sean Connery 
 
Traffic Bureau 
Off. Jacob LaChance 
 
Investigative Bureau 
Detective Vacant (FY21) 
 
Community Policing Bureau 
SRO/Community Outreach:  Off. Bradley McNamara (Comfort Dog, Hank) 
 
Reserve Police Officers 
Off. Donald Letarte, Off. Robert Dacosta, Off. Ben Campbell, Off. Chad Stateler, Off. Erin Considine, Off. 
Jeffrey Hill, Off. Nicholas Marino, Off. Daniel Gonzalez, Off. Paul Duquette, Off. Brian Watson 
===PAGE 91===
91 
 
 
I am truly honored to be selected as the new Chief of Police for the Lunenburg Police Department, and it is 
my pleasure to present this town report.  The Lunenburg Police Department has seen many changes in 2020, 
the first and foremost is the retirement of Chief James P. Marino.   
 
Chief Marino started with the Lunenburg Police Department in 1979 as a Reserve Police Officer, rising 
through the ranks in a 41 year career that culminated with being appointed as the Chief of Police on July 4, 
2012.  Throughout his career Chief Marino was dedicated to not only the Lunenburg Police Department, but 
to the Town of Lunenburg.  This dedication was evident as he tirelessly built cruisers for the Department 
year after year.  Chief Marino has also volunteered for as many civic events as he could.  Chief Marino 
continues to dedicate his time to the Town as member of the Select Board.      
 
During his tenure, Chief Marino was assigned as one of the first Detectives for the Lunenburg Police 
Department.  While a Detective, Chief Marino received several commendations for his investigative work 
that led to successful apprehension and prosecutions of suspect(s).  Chief Marino was also recognized for his 
work with the area drug task force when the task force was in its infancy.  His role as a long time DARE 
officer for the Lunenburg Public Schools made Chief Marino a recognizable figure throughout the town, and 
built a lasting relationship between the School District and Lunenburg Police Department.   
 
As recognized as he was for his diligent work as a police officer, Chief Marino’s true passion was evident as 
the Department’s fleet manager.  Chief Marino has always been a car enthusiast and carried that with him 
throughout his career. Chief Marino has built the department’s cruisers for over 25 years, with his attention 
to detail reflected on how well built the cruisers were.   
  
I am truly grateful that I had the opportunity to work for Chief Marino for the last 20 years.  His mentorship 
and friendship has led me to the position that I am in today.  On behalf of the Lunenburg Police Department, 
we want to thank Chief James P. Marino for all that he has done for the department and the Town of 
Lunenburg.  We wish him good luck, good health and prosperity as he enters the next phase of his life. 
 
In December of 2020, Lt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau was appointed to the permanent Lieutenant’s position.  Lt. 
Thibodeau has been a member of the Lunenburg Police Department since 2011, and obtained the rank of 
Detective Sergeant in July of 2014.  Lt. Thibodeau has been a police officer since 2001 when he was hired 
by the Townsend Police Department, and has also worked with the Federal Bureau of Prisons located in 
Devens, MA.   
Lt. Thibodeau holds a Bachelor’s Degree of Science in Criminal Justice from Fitchburg State University.  
During his tenure with the Lunenburg Police Department, Lt. Thibodeau has completed numerous 
investigative classes and trainings, which eventually led him to be assigned to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigations High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), and the North Worcester County Drug Task 
Force.  Lt. Thibodeau has also received leadership training through HIDTA, and has completed two sessions 
of the FBI LEEDA course.  Lt. Thibodeau has completed several administrative courses involving Public 
Records Law, Internal Affairs Investigation and other related courses since his appointment.  It is a pleasure 
to welcome Lt. Thibodeau as the second in command of the department.   
 
In December of 2020, Sgt. Joshua M. Mathieu was appointed as a permanent Sergeant.  Sgt. Mathieu has 
been a member of the Lunenburg Police Department since August of 2011, and has been a full time officer 
since November of 2012.  Sgt. Mathieu holds a Bachelor Degree of Science degree from Westfield State  
===PAGE 92===
92 
 
College. Sgt. Mathieu has completed numerous training courses involving investigative techniques, is one of 
the department’s Field Training Officers, and has been involved with training numerous new Lunenburg 
Police Officers.  Sgt. Mathieu is also the department’s liaison for the Critical Incident Management System 
(CIMS), which is a program involving a collaboration with Central MA communities to combat Opioid 
addiction.  It is a pleasure to welcome Sgt. Mathieu to the department’s command staff.     
In 2020 we had three officers complete the Massachusetts Municipal Training Committee full time Basic 
Recruit Officer Training course.  Off. Ramon J. Cabrera, Off. Anthony P. Cappucci, and Off. Kamerin P. 
Munroe.  All three officers have successfully completed the required Department Field Training, and are 
currently assigned to the Patrol Bureau.  We are pleased to welcome Ramon, Anthony and Kam to the 
department’s full time ranks.      
2020 has been truly an unparalleled year, dealing with the Covid-19 Pandemic and the effects it has had on 
our way of life, and our economy, to dealing with civil unrest issues that have arisen as result of the tragic 
events that unfolded with the death of George Floyd.  Even as these events have changed our worlds, the 
Lunenburg Police Department strives to give the community the best possible service that we can provide.  
During these unprecedented times our officers have performed admirably, risking their own health to 
continue to serve the community.  I commend our officers, and members of our department for the work that 
has been completed throughout the year without reservation. 
 
Mission Statement:  
We, the members of the Lunenburg Police Department, strive to provide the highest quality of police services 
to our community members and visitors alike.  We believe in Community Policing, and all of the benefits that 
are realized from this concept.  We will strive to maintain the strong partnerships that have been developed 
with our community, and continuously look for ways improve that relationship.  We will strive to deliver 
police services in a fair and impartial manner, consistent with all applicable laws, while respecting all 
individual rights.  We will use innovative and modern ideas and techniques to solve crimes, apprehend 
criminal offenders, and help resolve quality of life issues.   
 
Values: 
 We are committed to ensuring that all of our actions reflect the utmost integrity, and honesty.   
 We are committed to respecting individual rights, human dignity, and the values of all members of the 
community and members of the Lunenburg Police Department. 
 We are a proactive and problem solving agency. 
 We strive to serve our citizens in a professional manner with compassion, respect, and empathy. 
 We are committed to providing the highest quality of police services to our community. 
 We recognize the value of our employees, and recognize they are our most valued resource.  We will 
strive to provide our employees with the necessary resources, training, and career development to 
enhance their professionalism. 
 We recognize that the well being of our employees is the upmost importance.  We will strive to provide 
the necessary assistance to assure our employees enjoy a long and satisfying career.        
2020 Statistical Information: 
The following statistical information is to provide some insight into our officers’ activity for 2020. 
Calls for service:  20,118 
Arrests Totals:  382 
 Arrests Custody:  118 
 Arrests Summons:  256 
===PAGE 93===
93 
 
Protective Custody:  8 
Motor Vehicle Accidents (MVA) Totals:  236 
 MVA with injury:  58 
 MVA without injury:  134 
 MVA hit and run:  44 
Motor Vehicle Stops Totals:  2,480 
 Citations Civil (fines):  114 
 Citations Warnings:  627 
 Citations Criminal Offenses:  175 
 No Action Taken/Verbal:  1,566 
Domestic Arguments/Violence Totals:  101 
 Restraining Orders:  41 
Note:  42% increase from 2019.  Restraining Orders issued 156.25% increase from 2019. 
Animal Control Officer (ACO) calls for service totals:  260 
 Dog bites:  15 
 Kennel Inspections:  11  
 
As result of the above calls the officers generated 1,095 written reports involving Incident Based Reporting 
(IBR) and National Incident Based Reporting (NIBRS), which is a State and Federal Crime data base.  The 
officers also generated an additional 974 reports that did not fall in the either IBR or NIBRS category.  
 
In 2020 there was an 11% increase with Crimes Against Persons, with Aggravated and Simple Assaults 
accounting for highest increase at 29% and 35% respectively.  Without a significant study being conducted, it 
is believed that the number of assaults that have occurred is related to the Pandemic and the effects of 
isolation.      
In 2020 there was a 23% total increase in Crimes Against Property.  Unemployment and Identity Fraud 
accounted for the significant increase with Property Crimes, with the two categories having a 117% increase 
from 2019.    
Although property crimes have risen, there was a 15% decrease in Breaking and Entering’s, and a 58% 
decrease in shoplifting.  These numbers also reflect the effects of the Pandemic and the fact that people are 
staying home. 
I would like to thank the citizens of Lunenburg for their continued support.  The department could not be 
successful without the support and collaboration with the citizens we serve.  I look forward to leading this 
department as we continue to navigate through these trying times.   
 
Sincerely,  
 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel  
===PAGE 94===
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 95===
95 
 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 96===
96 
 
 
FY 2021 CAPITAL PLAN 
The Capital Planning Committee presented the Fiscal Year 2021 plan to the Town Manager in January as 
required by Charter and the Town Manager included all the recommendations, as prioritized by the 
Capital Planning Committee, in her presentation to the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee in the 
latter half of January.   
Below is the original FY2021 Capital Plan recommended in January of 2020: 
 
Due to the coronavirus outbreak in March and the projected economic impact to the town’s finances, the 
Town Manager met with the Capital Planning Committee on April 16th to inform the Committee that the 
portion of the Plan that was to be funded from tax revenues, $650,000 of the $1,329,133, would need to 
be deferred until the fall Special Town Meeting, when we would have a better financial picture of the 
impact of the shutdown on the town’s revenues.  The Committee reviewed all of the projects at this 
meeting and re-voted a new recommendation.  Their new recommendation reprioritized some projects and 
the revised total cost of the Plan is $664,800, which uses $14,333 less of Free Cash than the original 
recommendation. 
FY2021
Priority # CIP# Dept. Project Name Category Projected
1 FM20-01 DPW Town Hall, ADA Ramp/Sidewalk Facilities $22,000
2 INFRA20-01 Highway Flat Hill Culvert Design Infrastructure $112,500
3 LPS16-19-C Schools THES Asbestos Abatement/Ceiling Replacement Facilities $123,500
4 PD19-01 Police Police Vehicle, 1 Marked New Vehicle $67,000
5 FD17-05-B Fire SCBA Complement, Replacement (1/2) Equipment $115,000
6 PD16-14 Police Police Vehicle, 1 Marked Replacement Vehicle $67,000
7 FD16-20-A Fire ALS Equipment Phase 1 Equipment $54,800
8 PD20-01 Police ACO Vehicle Vehicle $26,000
9 FD20-01 Fire Midlife Overhaul of Squad 3 Vehicle $65,000
10 PD16-18 Police Portable Radios Equipment $45,000
11 LPS19-03-A Schools Design AC for Classrooms at Primary Planning $10,000
12 DPW16-10 Highway Trackless & Attachments Vehicle $170,000
13 FM17-16A DPW Senior Center, Reconfigure Front Entrance Facilities $24,000
14 DPW17-11 Highway One Ton Dump with Plow Vehicle $58,833
15 FM16-02 DPW PSB, Carport Reconfiguration Facilities $135,000
16 FM20-06 DPW Senior Center, Kitchen Remodel Facilities $22,000
17 LPS19-02 Schools Admin Air Conditioning, THES Facilities $28,000
18 FM16-11 DPW Library, Carpet Facilities $126,000
19 FM20-07 DPW Ritter, Kitchen Remodel Facilities $12,000
20 FM20-02 DPW Ritter, ADA Ramp Design Facilities $25,500
21 FM20-10 DPW Cemetery Parking Lot Facilities $20,000
Total Capital Plan $1,329,133
Funding: Raise & appropriate $650,000
Free cash $679,133
Unexpended Capital 
Premium Reserved for Capital
Total $1,329,133
===PAGE 97===
97 
 
 
PLANNING BOARD 
 
As everyone is aware this past year was challenging. The Planning Board would like to thank the residents of 
Lunenburg, business owners and applicants for their cooperation and patience as the staff and Board adjusted 
to the new normal of meeting on Zoom and coordinating daily operations around the required safety 
protocols and varying access to public buildings.  
Fifteen (15) ANR plans (land division plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law, but 
still requiring Board endorsement) were approved. 
Butterfly Lane, a nine -lot residential subdivision on Elmwood Road, which initially began construction in 
2014, was completed and the street accepted as a public way.   
Tri Town Landing on Youngs Road began construction on Baker Brook Apartments (Building #5), which 
would consist of 70 units of rental senior housing.   
Construction was completed and occupancy granted for Lunenburg’s Water District new office and garage on 
Massachusetts Avenue.   
The Planning Board adopted a Charge for an Economic Development Committee (EDC). This group would 
be composed of a combination of Town Officials, residents and business owners charged with providing 
advice, and guidance on the state of the business community in Lunenburg and ways that Town Government 
can support and sustain the local economy.  
Two warrant articles, amending the Earth Removal General Bylaw and transferring the permitting authority 
from the Select Board to the Planning Board, were presented at June 2020 Annual Town Meeting, but did not 
pass.   
Both Rhonda Lisio and Gregory Bittner stepped down from the Board.   Marisa Thompson was appointed to 
fill one of the vacancies until the May 2020 Town election; regrettably she had to step down after only a short 
time due to job relocation. The Board and Planning office staff would like to thank Ms. Thompson, Mr. 
Bittner and Ms. Lisio for their volunteerism and all the contributions they provided to making Lunenburg a 
wonderful community.  As a result of May 2020 Town Election, two new members joined the Board; 
Matthew Brenner and Erik Torgersen.  The Board and Planning Office staff welcomed Mr. Brenner and Mr. 
Torgersen to the Board and we look forward to your enthusiasm and contributions in the years to come.  
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be 
reached at 978-582-4147 extension 5.  Various forms are available online at https://lunenburgma.gov/ on the 
Planning Board’s homepage.  The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains the 
Protective {Zoning} Bylaws), Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Rules & 
Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, and Permitting Guidebook are available online.  The 
Board continues to work on updating the Zoning and Land Subdivision portions of the Code.   
Matthew Allison, Chair        
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair         
Paula Bertram, Clerk  
Matthew Brenner, Member 
Erik Torgersen, Member 
Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
===PAGE 98===
98 
 
AD HOC OPEN SPACE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE PLANNING BOARD 
The Open Space Committee’s efforts in FY’21 revolved around finalizing two major projects it had begun 
in FY ’20.  Namely, finalizing the update the town’s Open Space and Recreation Plan (OSRP) and 
completing the acquisition of the former Saliba property on Northfield Road as unanimously approved at 
the Special Town Meeting in November of 2019.   
The OSRP received final approval from the Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental 
Affairs Division of Conservation Services’ (DCS) on May 15, 2020.  In addition to being a valuable 
planning tool, the OSRP also makes the town eligible for DCS-administered grant programs through 2026.  
After Special Town Meeting approval, the Open Space Committee assisted with the completion of the 
Saliba acquisition, which added approximately 318 acres of land for town conservation (259 acres north of 
Northfield Road, with frontage on New West Townsend Road and Howard Street) and recreation uses (59 
acres on the south side of Northfield Road).  The $775,000 open space acquisition was funded with the 
assistance of $500,000 in reimbursements by state grants made possible by the newly approved OSRP.  
The property was acquired on June 25, 2020.  The conservation portion of the property is known as “Table 
Rock Conservation Area” and the recreation portion of the property is known as “Northfield Park”, both 
accessible from a small parking area located on Northfield Road near Settlers’ Crossing Golf Course. 
The Open Space Committee also reviewed several Chapter 61 withdrawal notifications this past year as 
part of the town’s defined multi-board process.  One such notification at 250 Howard Street resulted in a 
negotiated donation of approximately 3.4 acres of land to the Conservation Commission.  The donation 
was approved at the November 2020 Special Town Meeting and conveyed to the Town in January of 2021. 
The Open Space Committee also advised other town boards on the Bright Farms project, particularly 
related to the donation of approximately 1.5 acres of land to provide critical recreational trail linkage from 
the Rayno Conservation Area to the newly acquired Northfield Park and beyond.  The donation was 
approved at the November 2020 Special Town Meeting. 
Lastly, the Open Space Committee has begun a screening process to review the inventory of existing town-
owned property to determine if any vacant and currently unused parcels are of potential conservation or 
recreation interest.  Parcels of interest identified in that screening process will then be brought forward to 
other town boards and committees to discuss a plan for the future of those parcels. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Brandon Kibbe, Chairman 
===PAGE 99===
99 
 
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard several petitions during calendar year 2020. There were several 
applicants seeking special permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board 
meetings are held on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month at Town Hall at 7:00PM or ZOOM as 
an alternative on an “as needed” basis. 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:   
Alfred Gravelle, Chairman,  
James Besarkarski, Vice-Chairman,  
Members:   
Hans Wentrup,  
David Blatt,  
Patrick Callahan  
Anthony Nicastro, Associate Member.    
Lisa Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board. 
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows: 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-
laws. 
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws. 
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General 
Laws, as amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or 
enforcement action from the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional Planning 
Agency, abutting City or Town or other Administrative Official. 
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, 
Chapter 40B.  The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits submitted to 
the Board under Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.  These requests can, 
by law, circumvent local zoning ordinances. 
The office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts 
Avenue, Lunenburg.   
Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Tuesday and 
Thursday, closed Friday.   
If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978-582-4146 X 421 
during regular business hours.   
Zoning Board applications are available in the office and online at  
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/boards-commissions-committees/zoning-board-appeals 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 100===
100 
 
===PAGE 101===
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDUCATION 
===PAGE 102===
102 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
Town Report 
2020-2021 
Superintendent’s Message 
It is always a pleasure for me to present my annual report for the Lunenburg Public Schools, a district I am 
honored and proud to lead.  2020 was a truly unprecedented year in public education.  This report reflects the 
ways in which the schools were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the district’s continued focus on 
our Strategy for Continuous Improvement.  I want to acknowledge and express my sincere gratitude for a 
collaborative approach toward projecting and planning for current and future needs with the Town Manager, 
Heather Lemieux.  As the leader of the district I am fortunate to work with a School Committee that is truly 
dedicated to serving the best interests of our students and appreciative that the Board of Selectmen and 
Finance Committee work collaboratively with the School Committee and School Department not only to 
strengthen communication, but to problem-solve in order to better meet the educational needs of the children 
of Lunenburg. 
The work of the district, outlined in the Strategy for Continuous Improvement, is aligned with our Mission 
and Vision: 
 
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and 
passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, 
and rewarding lives. 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to becoming a leader in education by focusing on its values of 
attending to the personal well-being of its students, providing high-quality curricula and student-centered 
instruction for deeper learning at all levels, and promoting the development of attributes and skills necessary 
for continuous learning for all. 
 
The Strategy is a living document which is reviewed annually and adjusted as needed.  In August 2020, the 
District Leadership Team reviewed that Strategy, its objectives and action plans, with a “COVID-19 needs” 
lens.  It was determined that no new COVID-specific objectives or priority actions were needed.  The 
Strategy objectives for the next three to four years are: 
Transforming Teaching and Learning: To ensure teaching and learning are student -centered 
and inclusive by: (1) establishing effective teams of educational leaders to accomplish the essential 
work for transforming practice, and (2) hiring and developing excellent educators who are continually 
learning and adapting practice to meet the needs of all students. (DSP Goals: 1, 2, 3, 5, {4, 7}) 
 
Cultivating Climate & Culture: To create a culture that values data use and fosters continuous 
learning in a climate that is safe, caring, inclusive and reflective of our core values. (District Strategic 
Plan Goals 1, 6) 
 
Communication & Operations: To improve operational efficiencies, including communication, 
in order to increase the organization’s capacity to execute the district’s mission and vision. (District 
Strategic Plan Goal 8) 
===PAGE 103===
103 
 
Equity, Access, Achievement & Opportunity for All Students: To ensure all students are 
provided equal access to a high-quality education, that is collaborative, interactive, and relevant with 
an appropriate level of support and challenge so that they can become well-rounded, resilient, 
confident, and capable young adults adequately prepared for future challenges. (District Strategic 
Plan Goals 1, 6) 
 
In order to cultivate district-wide leadership in key areas identified in the Strategy for Continuous 
Improvement, the district continues to create teams to lead our work.  In 2018-2019, the Behavioral Health 
Advisory Council, Elementary Literacy Team, and Professional Development Committee were created.  In 
2019-2020, a District Advisory Council and Equity Advisory Council were formed.  In addition to existing 
building-based Teacher Support Teams (TST), in 2020-2021 building-based Behavioral Health Support 
Teams (BHST) were established.  These teams review student cases referred by staff or administration.  TST 
determines which academic interventions may be needed and BHST determines which social/emotional/
behavioral interventions are needed.  Intervention plans are developed, implemented and reviewed for 
impact and progress.  In 2020-2021, an Interim Director of Teaching and Learning and Title I Coordinator 
joined the Instructional Leadership Team (ILT) which is focused on improving teaching and learning.  Our 
Behavioral Health Coordinator, new this year, Extended Day Director; School-Community Linked Services 
Coordinator; along with our new ILT members,  have joined our District Leadership Team in order to 
establish effective communication within the district, particularly important under COVID conditions.  
 
In March 2020, school buildings across the Commonwealth were closed and teaching and learning 
transitioned to a virtual format.  This presented several challenges for the district: feeding our students, 
ensuring they had means to access online learning, and shifting instruction to a virtual platform.  We 
immediately set to work and created a grab-n-go drive through breakfast and lunch program, making 
deliveries to homes if families did not have the means to pick-up the meals at the school.  We gathered 
together every laptop and iPad in the district, surveyed families to determine the level of need, and 
distributed devices to students in households with no device or one device shared by all members of the 
household.  We worked with the IT Department, administrators, and teachers to establish norms and 
expectations for staff, students, and families in a virtual classroom, as well as establishing a robust  
schedule of instructional technology professional development offerings to prepare our teachers for a 
transition from a virtual Enrichment Learning model to a Remote Learning model.   
 
Before the 2019-2020 school-year came to a close, we were already preparing for a very different type of 
school-year in 2020-2021.  A Reopen Planning Team, comprised of thirty-five district and school 
administrators, faculty, staff, parents, and transportation representatives was formed June 1, 2020.  By June 
30, 2020 members of this Team were assigned to Task Groups: Teaching and Learning; Healthy and Safe 
Facilities; Behavioral Health; Special Services; Extended Programming; Human Resources and Operations; 
and Equity, Access, and Engagement.   
===PAGE 104===
104 
 
These Task Groups created recommendations which ultimately became the Fall 2020 Reopen Plan which was 
presented to the Lunenburg School Committee on August 5, 2020. 
The Reopen Plan, as per the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, included an outline of three 
different learning models: full Remote Learning, Hybrid Learning, full Return to Campus Learning.  
Ultimately, due to the challenges of social distancing, the full Return to Campus was not the recommended 
model for reopening.  The full Remote Learning model was not recommended due to the strong need to have 
our students get back to face-to-face learning.  The Reopen Planning Team recommended and the School 
Committee approved a Hybrid Learning model for reopening in Fall 2020. While the district reopened in the 
Hybrid Learning model, families did have the option of remaining in a full Remote Learning model. 
 
 
Grade Level Lunenburg Resident 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Total 
PK 36 0  36 
K 108 0  108 
1 105 0 105 
2 140  0 140 
Primary Total 389  0 389 
3 110 0 110 
4 112 0 112 
5 123 0 123 
Elementary Total 345    0  345 
6 126 0 126 
7 141 0 141 
8 123 0 123 
Middle School Total 390  2 390 
9 122 2 124 
10 104 9 113 
11 128 0 128 
12 103 12 115 
High School Total 457 23 480 
  Advanced Community 
Experience Program 
(TCP) 
8 0  8 
All Schools Total  1589 23 1612 
===PAGE 105===
105 
 
Hybrid students were assigned to Cohorts.  All students learn remotely on Mondays.  Cohort A students 
attend classes on campus on Tuesdays and Thursdays and learn remotely on Wednesdays and Fridays.  
Cohort B students attend classes on Wednesdays and Fridays and learn remotely on Tuesdays and Thursdays.  
By using Cohorts, the number of students on campus is reduced, allowing for implementation of the CDC 
recommended six feet of social distancing.  Families were asked to register for bus transportation as numbers 
of students on a bus was also limited due to social distancing requirements.  In order to better meet the needs 
of students on their hybrid remote day, at the start of Quarter 3 the Hybrid Learning model was enhanced 
with the addition of livestreaming on hybrid remote learning days. 
 
In order for the district to begin livestreaming, instructional technology required an upgrade.  Funded through 
COVID relief funds, teachers received an upgraded laptop with docking station, microphone, 27 inch 
monitor, and stylus pen.  The 2020-2021 school calendar was amended to include eight early release days.  
On these days, students learn on campus in the morning on their Cohort day, are dismissed and  transported 
home, and continue learning remotely for the afternoon.  Teachers and staff work together in the afternoons 
to prepare and plan for livestreaming lessons, share best practices, or attend instructional technology 
workshops. 
 
Due to the closure of schools in the spring of 2020, MCAS assessments were not administered.  As a result, 
we do not have MCAS data to include in our annual report.  As it was known that MCAS data would not be 
available, the district procured online assessment platforms.  These standardized assessments were 
administered in the fall and winter of 2020.  These assessments provided valuable information that allowed 
for targeted intervention for students.  These data also allow us to determine if our students are working on 
grade-level.  District, school, and educator evaluation goals for faculty and administrators focus on 
effectively using new tools for teaching and new assessment tools to determine student performance and 
growth. 
 
Much of our normal practice required adjustment due to COVID safety protocols, and our professional 
development practice required adjustment as well.  We were able to continue our inter-district collaboration 
with North Middlesex Regional School District by holding a virtual conference in November 2020.  The 
Lunenburg Professional Development Committee is excited to plan a regional professional development 
conference in November 2021 and serve as a host campus.   
 
Through grant funds the district was able to restore a director-level curriculum position which had been cut 
in 2012.  This position is essential to provide supervision of and assistance to teachers in a review of the 
curriculum.  Due to the school-year being reduced from 180 days to 170 days due to COVID-19, adjustments 
to pacing, prioritization, and sequencing of the curriculum were necessary.   
===PAGE 106===
106 
 
As MCAS was not administered in spring 2020 due to school closure, the district procured an online 
standardized assessment tool in order to have the necessary data to measure student growth and 
performance, and to determine which students require intervention to close learning gaps.  Robust teacher 
training in instructional and assessment technologies and sharing of best practice was built into the school 
calendar. The Interim Director of Teaching and Learning and Title I Coordinator positions were integral to 
all of this work. 
 
I want to acknowledge and thank our staff for their professionalism and flexibility as we have continued to 
make adjustments in order to provide the best learning experience possible for our students; our parents and 
families for the sacrifices they have made in order to support their students’ learning from home; and the 
School Committee, Town Manager, and local boards and committees for their support of the schools  
throughout the pandemic.  Lunenburg has been successful in keeping our schools open and remaining 
focused on improving the ways in which we support our students academically, socially, and emotionally 
because of the strong partnership the schools have experienced with parents, extended families, and the 
greater community. 
 
“The oak fought the wind and was broken, the willow bent when it must and survived.” 
― Robert Jordan 
 
For me, the highlight of this report annually is announcing the recipient of the Superintendent’s Award.  
The selection process is difficult as we have many hard working, high-performing, community service-
oriented students.  The students this year are even more impressive, continuing to demonstrate their 
resilience as COVID-19 has impacted the normalcy of life in so many ways.  The recipient of the 2021 
Superintendent’s Award is Olivia Catalini. Olivia has certainly persevered, citing her work ethic and 
disciplined nature as two qualities that have assisted her during high school and the pandemic.  
Academically, she has achieved several honors and awards for excellence in Math, Science, History, Latin 
and the Arts. Her skills of organization and attention to detail have been two key elements that have kept 
her focused through seven AP courses taken. 
Her curiosity and creativity has led her to pursue instrumental music in the form of guitar, as well as 
various art forms such as watercolor, colored pencil and sketching. 
Being a natural leader, she has helped coach her varsity tennis teammates on a co-op team between 
Lunenburg and Fitchburg.  Her many interests show her innovative side in photography, gaming and 
graphic design which may lead her down an artistic path in her future. 
In her own words, “I want to integrate into a college community which will help me grow as a person and 
that I can give back in return.”  We wish Olivia all of the best as she pursues her future endeavors. 
===PAGE 107===
107 
 
School Facilities 
2020-2021 
 
The focus of school maintenance for FY21 was to support operating the school in a COVID 19 environment, 
as well preventative maintenance on heating and ventilation systems and energy conservation measures. The 
focus of repairs continues to be on Turkey Hill Elementary School with a major focus on ensuring the 
heating and ventilation system is fully operational. 
COVID 19 
The district prepared for opening during the epidemic by installing partitions in the school offices, 
upgrading custodial equipment for disinfection, preparing supplies for the teaching environment such as 
additional disinfectant spray bottles and microfiber wipers and changing cleaning protocols to add  
additional disinfection periods during and after the school day. A close inspection was done of the 
ventilation system at Turkey Hill and numerous repairs were completed prior to the opening of school.  
Indoor Air Quality assessments were completed by using school personnel and confirmed that the 
ventilation system is performing well against its original design. 
Security Upgrades 
The district applied for a Safer Schools and Community Grant in March 2020 and was awarded $50,000 to 
install a Bi-Directional Antenna at Lunenburg Primary School for police and fire services. The project 
completed by Cybercomm and Di-Rock Electric. Work began in July 2020 and was completed by the end of 
August. The bi-directional antenna improves communication for both police and fire personnel while they 
are in the building and ensure good communications back to the Public Safety Building. 
Water Testing   
In the third  year of wide spread water testing for lead and copper in the drinking water at all schools in June 
2020, lead was detected in a number of sources at Turkey Hill and Passios Elementary School. The source 
of the lead is believed to be solder from joining copper pipes. The teaching staff, parents and students have 
been made aware of the need to flush water sources at the start of the school day.  A fixture replacement 
program was begun for the Turkey Hill Elementary School to replace fixtures as well as closing in piping 
for selected areas. Follow up testing will occur at all schools in June 2021. 
Energy Savings 
A Green Community Grant was awarded to the Town of Lunenburg to upgrade three appliances at Turkey 
Hill Elementary School with Energy Star Appliances (two-door reach in refrigerator, milk cooler and a 
double convection oven) at a cost of $15,092.  A LED lighting conversion for Lunenburg Middle High 
School kitchen was begun in December 2020 and is expected to be complete in Feb 2021 with $2,780.12 in 
Green Community Grant funds. A replacement domestic hot water heater for Lunenburg Primary School 
was sent out for bid in January 2021 and is expected to be complete by April 2021 with $9,900 in green 
community grant funds.  
Capital Program 
The FY 21 capital program continued to fund additional asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill Elementary 
School. In July 2020, Encore Contracting Services for $93,836.25 removed spray-on fire proofing above the 
ceiling in room 102, 113 and 114.  This project included removal of the splined ceiling and the floor tiles in 
those areas. This project was the final phase at Turkey Hill Elementary School to abate the spray-on 
asbestos. The school continues to have vinyl floor tiles with asbestos based mastic in numerous areas. 
Additional removal are in the capital plan for 4 years from now.  
 
The school department also received funding to begin air conditioning design for Lunenburg Primary School 
classroom wing.  This work was awarded to DiGiorgio Associates for $10,000. 
 
At the Special Town Meeting during November 2020, funding for split air conditioning systems was 
approved at $28,000 to provide air conditioning for the main office, the guidance suite, and nurse’s office. 
This project is expected to be out to bid in February 2021 with work to begin around April 2021. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
John Londa 
Director of Facilities and Grounds 
===PAGE 108===
108 
 
Technology Department 
2020-2021 
 
Technology touches all our lives every day at the Lunenburg Public Schools. It is our aim in IT to serve our students, facult y and 
staff proactively, so that the tools used to facilitate learning function seamlessly and responsively when 
needed. From checking email, to accessing class information, to connecting and collaborating with students 
and colleagues near and far, faculty, staff, and IT are working together to help redefine what is possible for 
our students, so they can redefine what’s possible for the world.  
As we reflect on this last year, to say 2020 has been challenging would be an understatement. With the 
arrival of the coronavirus in the spring, all our IT priorities shifted to an intense focus on responding to this 
emergency and how best to support the district moving to remote teaching, learning and working almost 
overnight while still maintaining our core services. This report provides information on the Technology 
Team, as well as some highlights of the work we have done in response to COVID-19. 
The IT Team 
Our team continues to learn and grow each year as we improve our infrastructure and explore innovations 
in education technology.   
Steve Malandrinos – Information Technology Director 
Eight years working for the Town and Schools 
Previously an engineer at Cisco Systems, IT Director for the Town of Belchertown, MA and 
Belchertown Public Schools 
 
Jordan Pochini – School Technology Coordinator 
 Six years working for the Town and Schools 
 BS in Computer Science  from Fitchburg State University 
Prior experience includes both individual contributor and management roles in retail environments 
 
Heather Buiwit – Technology Assistant 
MBA in General Business from Nichols College, Dudley, MA 
Previously worked for the Lunenburg Public Library assisting with technology 
Transitioning to remote teaching, learning and working required not just a shift in practice, but new 
equipment and technology infrastructure to support a completely new model of instruction.  While we were 
able to provide devices to those students most in need for the end of the 2019-2020 school year, additional 
student devices and updated teacher devices were needed to move effectively into the remote model – 
especially to support synchronous teaching or ‘live streaming’ of classes.  Drawing on grant funding 
sources, as well as local funds where needed, several large technology purchases were placed throughout 
the year. 
Over the summer, orders of Chromebooks and iPads were placed in sufficient quantity to put a device in 
the hands of every Lunenburg student.  Configuration and deployment was definitely a challenge for our 
small team, but with help from district and building administration, we were able to set up outdoor pick-up 
sites to safely put the devices into families’ hands. 
Later in the year, when it became clear that the live streaming model of teaching would be adopted, grant 
funding was used to purchase updated laptops, monitors, and additional peripherals for teachers to facilitate 
this new mode of instruction.  
===PAGE 109===
109 
 
A demo classroom was set up at each school, and training sessions were held over the course of a few weeks 
to give teachers a chance to see the equipment in action and discuss scenarios for effectively employing it.  
Training sessions were well attended and lively, often resulting in classroom visits to experiment with 
different configurations and answer individual questions. 
To support the new network traffic associated with live stream video conferencing, upgraded internet 
connections were needed at Lunenburg Primary School and Turkey Hill Elementary School.  Fiber optic 
lines were run to each building, and new service came online mid-January, increasing bandwidth 
from100Mbps download, 20Mbps upload to 300Mbps download and upload.   
We don’t know exactly what the future will hold for 2021, but there are signs of hope with vaccines and 
outdoor weather on the way. One thing I do know is that the way we work and teach will forever be changed 
by this experience, and technology is the key to supporting this shift. Lunenburg IT continues to adjust its 
priorities to do all we can to support the district’s evolving academic plans, and to support teaching and 
learning as we navigate these uncharted waters. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Steve Malandrinos, IT Director 
Special Services Department 
FY20 (data taken from 2019-2020 school year) 
From the March 1, 2020 report (SIMS Report 5-Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), there are 257 
students with disabilities receiving special education or related services in Lunenburg (last year there were 
263).  This represents 15.5% of our total student population of 1,659 students (it was 15.8% last year).  The 
state average from the 2019-20 Selected Populations Report (https://profiles.doe.mass.edu/statereport/
selectedpopulations.aspx) is 18.4%.  From the March 1, 2020 report (SIMS Report 7-SPED Enrollment 
Statistics – District Summary), the total number of students receiving services outside the district was 11 
(last year was 12).  Of the 11 students, 3 are placed in Collaborative Placements, 3 are in Day Placements 
and 5 are in Residential Placements.  Our Advanced Community Experience Program (ACE), which serves 
students ages 18-22years old, had 3 students enrolled last year.  Additionally, from the March 1, 2020 report, 
111 students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg (last year was 
138). 
For the 2020 school year, our overall classification is NOT REQUIRING ASSISTANCE OR 
INTERVENTION as we are making substantial progress toward targets.  Our progress toward improvement 
targets is listed at 55% - substantial progress toward targets.  The data below is from last school year as the 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education did not issue school, district, or state 
accountability determinations for the 2019-20 school year due to the cancellation of state assessments and 
school closures related to COVID-19. 
For the 2019 school year, as a district, our overall Accountability and Assistance Level is NOT 
REQUIRING ASSISTANCE OR INTERVENTION with the Primary School (Insufficient data), Turkey Hill 
Elementary School (Not requiring assistance or intervention), Lunenburg Middle School (Not requiring 
assistance or intervention), Lunenburg High School (Not requiring assistance or intervention) and the 
Advanced Community Experience Program (Insufficient data).  The 2019 Official Accountability Report 
classifies “High Needs ” students in Lunenburg as “Moderate progress towards targets ” in their overall 
progress toward improvement targets. Participation rates in MCAS  this year were as follows:  High Needs = 
99%, Econ. Disadvantaged = 99%, EL and Former EL = 100%, and Students w/disabilities = 100%. 
This data can be found at the DESE website:  
        http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5&  
===PAGE 110===
110 
 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole 
Special Services Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each 
year.  For our Indicators, the following information is available below and also can be found at:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2018 -2019 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was 
72.4% (was 88.0% last year). Lunenburg ’s rate was 82.1% (was 62.5% last year) and the overall state rate 
was 73.8% (was 72.2% last year) for Students with IEPs.   
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2018 -2019 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was 
1.7% (was 2.1% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was 2.3% (it was 2.0% last year) and the 
overall state rate was 3.3% (was 2.5% last year).   
Indicator 3C  – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS.  For the 2019 MCAS, Lunenburg 
Students with Disabilities SS ratings were as follows: 
  Grade 3 – Reading:   Lunenburg = 488.3 State = 486.4   
 Grade 3 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 491.2 State = 480.7 
  Grade 4 – Reading:   Lunenburg = 474.6 State = 484.3 
 Grade 4 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 476.7 State = 480.3 
  Grade 5 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 479.7 State = 482.6  
 Grade 5 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 467.2 State = 480.2  
  Grade 6 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 474.1 State = 477.9  
 Grade 6 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 482.8 State = 480.4 
  Grade 7 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 476.3 State = 478.0  
 Grade 7 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 474.6 State = 477.3 
  Grade 8 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 474.0 State = 477.3  
 Grade 8 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 478.8 State = 478.2  
Grade 10–ELA:   Lunenburg = 484.5 State = 486.2  
 Grade 10–Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 481.3 State = 483.8  
For the 2019 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities SGP ratings were as follows: 
Grades 3-8 - ELA:  Lunenburg = 40.0 State = 44.4 
Grades 3-8 - Mathematics: Lunenburg = 40.4  State = 45.0 
For the 2019 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities CPI rating was as follows: 
   Grade 10 – Sci/Tech/Eng:  Lunenburg = 85.0 State = 72.5  
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, our rate 
was 0.4% (last year it was 0%).  The state rate was .6%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant 
discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2019, Lunenburg was not found 
to have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.  
===PAGE 111===
111 
 
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2018 -2019, the state ’s rates 
are as follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 65.6%, Partial Inclusion = 14.4%, Substantially Separate 
Placements = 13.3%, and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 6.6%.  In 
Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:  Full Inclusion = 67.7%, Partial = 13.7%, Substantially Separate 
= 9.7% and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 8.8%.  
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3-5 with IEPs.  The 2018-2019 state rates showed 
the percent of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full Inclusion 
early childhood program was 54.8%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was 18.6%, a Substantially Separate 
Placement (special education class, separate school, or residential facility) was 16.2%, and students not 
attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was 
10.5%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 34.0%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 
15.1%, Substantially Separate rate was 26.4%, and Related Services was 24.5%. 
Indicator 7 – Early Childhood Outcomes.  Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as part of a 4 
year cycle in which they report exit data on children for whom they have collected entry level data; exit may 
occur at any time during the subsequent three year period as the children leave the preschool 
program.  Lunenburg did not have a cohort completion year in 2018-2019. 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special 
education who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results 
for students with IEPs.  For 2018 -2019 the state target was 86.5%.  Lunenburg ’s rate was 57.1% and the 
state’s rate was 60.1% (from information collected in the spring of 2019).  
Indicator 9 & 10 - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special 
Education Categories.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in 
either case.  
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   This indicator measures the % of children with parental consent 
to evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established timeline. Data is reported for all initial 
evaluations initiated in October, November, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 90% 
in compliance and the state average for this Indicator was 100%.  
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  T his indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, 
found eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third 
birthdays. The state target for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppressed”.  Data is 
suppressed if the number of students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is 
fewer than 10. 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 100%.  This 
indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that  includes appropriate 
measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based upon an age appropriate transition 
assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will reasonably enable the student to meet 
those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's transition services needs.  Lunenburg 
was last reviewed in this area in 2017-2018 and was 83.3% in compliance.  
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students with 
IEPs who exited high school during the 2017 -2018 school year and self -reported post-school engagement in 
education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through three 
measurements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
===PAGE 112===
112 
 
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high 
school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training 
program; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high 
school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post -
secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2018 -2019 school year, state targets for the 
three measurements of Post -School Outcomes are Measurement A: 50.2%; Measurement B: 79.6%; and 
Measurement C: 87.3%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows (from reporting year 2018 -19):  Measurement A = 
50%, Measurement B = 75%, and Measurement C = 75%.   
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support 
group for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, 
which currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I services and parents of students with 
disabilities.  Meetings are typically held the first Friday of each month, 11:00AM, in the Planning Room at 
the Middle School (for the 2020 -2021 school year, meetings were held via Zoom due to Covid -19).  The 
executive board is made up of Co -Chairpersons: Kelly Harvey and Liz Otero.  Several events and 
presentations were organized by the PACSAL for both parents and teachers in Lunenburg this year. For more 
information, go to:  
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services/pacsal?authuser=0   
In addition to the district PACSAL, Lunenburg also participates in a Regional SEPAC group.  
Information from this group is shared on Facebook at “Regional SEPAC – Central MA”  
The Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to meet the 
varying needs of our students in the least restrictive environment. We have an experienced, hard working staff 
that works together with parents to provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal partners in our 
efforts to develop challenging and focused educational programs for children.  We remain committed to the 
Lunenburg Public Schools mission, “The mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students 
with the skills, confidence, and passion for life -long learning so that they may find their own paths to 
successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.” This mission, we feel, was even able to be upheld 
during the unfortunate school closings due to the pandemic this year from March - June 2020.  During this 
time, special education services were still able to be delivered to students remotely and all DESE 
recommendations and protocols were put into place and followed in order to meet the needs of IEPs as best as 
possible.  In addition, the Special Services Office also created a specific parent centered page called “Covid-
19 Information” that worked to help keep parents as updated as possible on all the current pandemic concerns 
related to students with disabilities  
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services/covid-19-information?authuser=0  
We are proud of our staff, students, and families and their resiliency during this time and how they 
came together to work under very stressful times.  For additional information, please visit our website at:      
                 https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-services 
or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 
Massachusetts Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 305. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
===PAGE 113===
113 
 
Teaching & Learning Models and PD Update 
2020-2021 
Lunenburg Public School’s Instructional Leadership Team and the Reopening Team’s Teaching and 
Learning Task Group developed multiple teaching and learning models for the 2020-2021 school year.  
Upon return to school in the fall, students had a choice to return to a hybrid model of learning or remain in 
a fully remote learning model. 
Hybrid & Remote Learning Models 
In our hybrid learning model, approximately 50% of students in the model attend school in person on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays while learning remotely the other days of the week, and the other 50% attend in 
person on Wednesdays and Fridays while learning remotely the other days of the week.  High needs 
students are prioritized for in-person learning four days per week.  Mondays are a remote learning day for 
all students during which students meet virtually with teachers during a portion of the day and complete 
independent work for the remainder.  This allows for classroom configurations to be altered for social 
distancing. 
A percentage of Lunenburg students chose to remain in a fully remote learning model.  Specific teachers at 
each grade level have been assigned to fully remote classes which students attend virtually through Google 
Meet and which include a combination of synchronous and asynchronous learning experiences.  At 
Lunenburg High School, some remote students are enrolled in select virtual education classes through 
Educere. 
All students in the district were provided with 1:1 devices, Chromebooks for students in grades 3-12 and 
iPads for students in PreK-2. 
Our teachers have worked diligently to create welcoming physical and virtual classrooms and to provide 
robust and rigorous learning and social emotional experiences for students in an environment where 
digitizing and reimagining curriculum is essential but extremely challenging.  All teachers use Google 
Classroom as a learning management system in order to post assignments, announcements, instructions, 
videos, presentations, links to virtual meetings through Google Meet, and other instructional materials and 
tools.   Some of the instructional and assessment platforms employed by teachers include district-
purchased subscriptions to iReady, Lexia,  IXL, Newsela, Brainpop, Raz-Kids, and Nearpod.  In addition, 
teachers are using Google Workplace elements such as Docs, Slides, Sheets, Sites, Forms, and Jamboard to 
design and implement lessons in addition to other tools and resources such as Khan Academy, EdPuzzle, 
Kahoot, CommonLit, Gimkit, and Flipgrid to name a few.  Many teachers have also recorded lessons or 
read alouds with Meet and Screencastify to provide students with additional personalized instruction. 
Collaboration has been essential for this dramatic shift in teaching as teams of teachers consistently work 
together to create materials, plan lessons, engage students, and design curriculum for optimum learning 
outcomes for students.   
Live streaming 
In January 2021, our hybrid model changed to incorporate live streaming so that students in the remote 
cohort on Tuesday-Thursday join the in-person cohort for class as one community.  Live streaming was 
piloted by select high school classes during the fall and by our 8th grade teachers in December, 2020, and 
best practices were shared with colleagues during professional development and multiple question and 
answer sessions.  In preparation for live streaming throughout the district, teachers were provided with new 
laptops, a second monitor, microphones/speakers, docking stations, and tablets.   
===PAGE 114===
114 
 
Students now experience synchronous instruction and learning each school day as each building has 
designed developmentally appropriate schedules.  Already, students have gained live instruction time, 
participated in whole-class discussions, and partnered with members of the opposite cohort on collaborative 
documents and in breakout rooms.  Teachers continue to refine and adjust practices in order to negotiate 
technology, engage students, encourage collaboration and discussion, and strengthen learning. 
Professional Development & Training 
Our district has provided professional development and training sessions throughout the school year in order 
to support teachers with these learning models and to prepare for live streaming.  District staff participated 
in professional development during the opening 10 days of school which included professional learning in 
the areas of social emotional learning, preparing for hybrid and remote learning models, safety training, 
literacy planning, creating a safe and supportive school environment, reviewing social justice standards, and 
Response to Intervention.  We also offered 20 choices of technology training sessions led by experienced 
district staff, including sessions on Google Classroom and Meet, interactive notebooks, EdPuzzle, Google 
Sites for student portfolios, Nearpod, choice boards, bitmoji classrooms, using document cameras, and 
iMovie.   Formal training on purchased instructional platforms, iReady and IXL, was also offered to the 
district. 
 A cross-district professional development day was held on November 3rd in collaboration with North 
Middlesex Regional School District.  Our keynote speaker, Lynn Lyons, presented, “Teaching in a Time of 
Uncertainty:  The Emotional Skills Our Kids Need and the Patterns to Target.”  Lynn also offered secondary 
and elementary seminars on approaches to anxiety, worry, and depression.  A variety of professional 
learning sessions were offered including multiple technology sessions, special interest groups, and sessions 
on educator self-care, mindfulness, engagement strategies, fostering mentoring relationships, best teaching 
practices, supporting transgender and binary students, creating virtual bookrooms, and trauma response. 
Staff had the choice as to which learning best suited their needs. 
In preparation for the shift to live streaming, we held four half PD days during which tech demo rooms were 
available for teachers in each building and live streaming training was offered in addition to tech tools and 
Q&A sessions. 
Data sessions with iReady have been ongoing this year, and PD for responding to data, reading and writing 
workshops, phonics, and phonological awareness will also continue. 
Our Professional Development Committee will proceed to check-in with the district to evaluate needs and 
prepare for upcoming professional learning including future book studies and workshops. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Annica Scott 
Interim Director of Teaching & Learning 
 
 
 
===PAGE 115===
115 
 
Title I and Literacy Update 
2020-2021 
A comprehensive assessment of Title I and Literacy in grades K-5 conducted in July 2020 revealed many 
strengths and some areas for improvement particularly in light of new considerations caused by the 
pandemic.  The need for clarity and communication of standards that needed reinforcement at the start of 
the new school year; a well articulated and communicated scope and sequence of standards for the 2020-
2021 school year; reliable, vertically aligned assessments that provide real-time and actionable information 
for teachers; and print and digital resources to support the standards and student needs identified were the 
key areas that educators focused on to assure robust implementation and learning for all students. 
In the area of Title I services the following actions were taken and will continue to be a focus for deep 
implementation throughout the remainder of the 2020-2021 school year. 
 identify and set expectations for the use of resources (human and curricula) as additional support for 
identified students 
 hire highly qualified Title I staff- 3 tutors to join a paraprofessional and Reading Specialist 
 acquire and support the effective use of an assessment system as a component of eligibility and to 
monitor student progress including PD provided by iReady to implement the system and respond to 
results through changes in instruction. 
 ensure that all identified students have equitable access to instructional time with Title I staff through 
master scheduling and refreshed selection criteria informed by Title I federal guidelines 
 acquire and support the consistent implementation of instructional resources for Title I intervention 
(LLI, iReady, Lexia) 
 acquire and support the effective use of an instructional platform for Title I intervention (iReady, Lexia) 
 provide training, coaching, modeling for Title I staff in pedagogy and programming-phonemic 
awareness, Leveled Literacy Intervention, Developmental Reading Inventory, iReady, Lexia 
 Title I presentations delivered synchronously and asynchronously during curriculum nights, school 
committee meeting, SEPAC meeting, and School Council Meetings 
In Literacy, the following actions were taken and will continue to be a focus for deep implementation 
throughout the remainder of the 2020-2021 school year. 
 concerted, collaborative effort to implement a cohesive reading and writing program with fidelity so that 
every child has access to core resources and pedagogy every day achieved through vertically articulated 
scope and sequence in reading and writing, continuous acquisition and evaluation of print and digital 
resources to support the scope and sequence, and collaborative grade level and vertical planning 
 consistent use of assessments and collection and use of data to adjust and plan instruction and monitor 
student growth and achievement 
 evidence based universal screeners through the acquisition of iReady diagnostic assessment to identify 
student needs, students who are potentially at risk for reading failure, including those who may have 
developmental reading disabilities, and as a component for determining Title I eligibility.  
Upcoming activities to support Title I and Literacy actions for continuous improvement 
 Continued PD Grades K-5 for responding to data  
 Continued PD for grade 2 in reading and writing workshop 
 Continued PD for grades K and 1 in phonics 
 Implementation of early childhood grant with procurement of phonological awareness curriculum for 
grades PreK and K with professional development and coaching’ 
 Supporting family engagement with the relaunch of Footsteps to Brilliance application with PD for 
families in February and April and summer reading launch in June. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Rebecca Hyde, Title I Coordinator/Literacy Specialist 
===PAGE 116===
116 
 
Lunenburg School Food Service 
2020-2021 
 
Food Service Director 
Nadine Lorenzen 
 
Cook/Managers 
Elin Forgues 
John Terho 
Patti Pichnarcik 
 
General workers 
Karolyn Braman 
Carol DeBettencourt 
Danielle Leblanc 
Eleni Tsiakalos 
Sarah Romano 
Sheryl Ewen 
 
Eating a healthy breakfast before starting the school day is linked to improved concentration. Breakfast is 
especially important for young students whose brains use up about half of the body’s energy. Eating lunch is 
important because it provides nourishment to the body and brain and reduces stress. Therefore, in the spring 
of 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic began, we knew we had to get meals to children somehow. We 
quickly devised a plan, set up a curbside grab and go meal site. With the help of the nursing and central 
office staff, we delivered meals to families that could not get to us. In April 2020, we could only provide 
meals to families that qualified for meal benefits through the National School Lunch Program  (NSLP). By 
May 2020, the United States Department of Agricultures (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) 
approved a request by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) to allow school 
food authorities flexibility while continuing to feed children. We applied for waivers and were able provide 
meals to all children 18 and under at no cost to families but allowing our program reimbursement for each 
meal served. As of December 23 2020, we have distributed 31,636 meals to children and teens 18 and 
under.  
 
Dalia Marzuca, Zack Welton and Valerie Martin resigned from their position to pursue different options. 
We wish them luck in their new endeavors. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Nadine Lorenzen, Food Service Director 
===PAGE 117===
117 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL  2020-2021 
  The Lunenburg Primary School is an early childhood education center for students in preschool to 
second grade. Our students range from three years old to eight years old. Our school community consists of 
students, teachers, parents and support staff working together to maintain a learning environment that 
focuses on the academic and social emotional needs of the whole child. 
  The October 1, 2020 student enrollment reported to the Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education was 363 students. The following grade level class sizes reflect the adjustment to the Hybrid 
reopening model following the guidelines from the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
and the Center for Disease Control. 
Currently, our Preschool program services 36 three and four year old students in two classrooms 
with multiple sessions. We have six Kindergarten classes servicing 106 students. Class sizes in our in -
person Kindergartens range from 14 -16 and are broken into two cohorts of 7 -9 students. The full remote 
Kindergarten class has 33 students. There are four in person first grade classrooms with class sizes ranging 
between 21-25 and are broken into two cohorts of 10-13 students. Our Full remote first grade classroom has 
18 students. We have five in person second grade classrooms that serve 135 students with class sizes 
averaging 22 -24 students broken into two cohorts of 10 -14 students. Our full remote second grade 
classroom has 31 students. 
The COVID -19 Pandemic changed the context in which the Primary School provides instruction to the 
student population that it serves. Consideration for the safety and welfare of students and staff became part 
of our usual overall planning process.   Guidelines for physical distancing, wearing masks and sanitizing 
were at the forefront of any planning. Staff collaborated on developing protocols for classroom routines, 
hallway transitions, arrival and dismissal procedures, changes to traditional recess practices, and the 
distribution of needed instructional materials. Virtual meetings have become the norm for staff meetings, 
common planning meetings, professional development remote cohort student instruction, IEP, 504, and 
parent meetings. Communication to families and the community have also used virtual platforms. Parent 
forums or surveys to solicit feedback on the school’s performance have also become part of our routine.  
Professional development continues to focus on literacy instruction this year. Working with the district’s 
Title I Coordinator we identified, and secured additional units of study from Lucy Calkins’ Reading and 
Writing Workshop model that would be beneficial for staff at all grade levels to continue their work with 
regard to literacy instruction. The goal is to prepare students for any reading and writing task they will face 
and to turn kids into life-long, confident readers and writers who display agency and independence. 
Additional professional development focusing on technology, instructional software and their use in 
instruction became a priority. Providing instructional opportunities for students in person and remotely 
required additional technologies including, document cameras and additional monitors. Google Classroom 
has taken the place of teacher webpages as the main platform providing information, assignments and 
resources for students and their families. Instructional programs such as IXL, RAZ kids, Epic have become 
additional tools for teachers to use to assist with student support and growth. We have adopted a new 
diagnostic tool that is used to assess student growth throughout the year. The iReady diagnostic assessment 
tool provides student performance and growth data. It provides an additional data point that is used to 
provide instruction and support for students.  
===PAGE 118===
118 
 
Building Culture and Climate continues to be of the utmost importance during this school year. The staff 
has made great efforts to include traditional activities for students while being mindful of the necessary 
safety protocols. Our staff works to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and supportive. 
Through the continued use of Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS).  Positive Behavioral 
Interventions and Supports (PBIS) is an evidence-based three-tiered framework for improving and 
integrating all of the data, systems, and practices affecting student outcomes every day.   We have worked 
on establishing and teaching the school wide expectations along with having a continuum of encouraging 
expected behavior and discouraging problem behaviors. This system is aligning nicely with The Anchors of 
Emotional Intelligence, a whole-school/district-wide approach to teaching social emotional learning, which 
the staff has been trained in and is using to help students recognize, understand, describe, communicate and 
regulate their emotions. These approaches have been supplemented by the creation of the Behavioral Health 
Support Team (BHST) which provides tiered support strategies for students behavioral and mental health.  
 The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to ensure 
that all students have the services they need to be successful.  Common assessments are completed in the 
fall, winter, and spring for all children in grades K-2 in the areas of reading, writing, and math.  These 
common assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of teacher instruction and the progress of students.  
Struggling students are identified for additional support in Reading, Math, Speech, Occupational and 
Physical Therapy through our TST (Teacher Support Team) process. 
The Primary School Advisory Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns.  Serving as an 
advisory group to the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and 
developing the school improvement plan.  
Members of the School Advisory Council for the 2020-2021 school year are: 
Principal:                                 Chad Adams 
Assistant Principal                    Kevin White 
Teachers:                                 Sara Doyle, Kathryn Gerrior, Kara Slattery, Kirsten Snape 
Parents:                        Tiffaney Tavares, Shaunna Baril, Meghan Arnold  
Community Representative:           Vacant 
School Committee Rep:           Laura Kelly  
I am honored and humbled to be afforded the opportunity to work with a highly dedicated staff and a caring 
community in order to provide the best possible educational opportunities for our youngest students.  For 
more information about the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our website:  
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/ 
Respectfully submitted, 
Chad Adams, Principal 
===PAGE 119===
119 
 
                                                                 FY 21 PRIMARY SCHOOL ROSTER  
 
 
Central Office Second Grade Teachers
Chad Adams-Principal 2A-Serene Pease- Teacher
Kevin White- Asst. Principal 2B- Julie Hudson-Teacher
Krisy Carbone-Admin Secretary 2C- Sara Kenney- Teacher
Susan Lasky- School Nurse Corinne Jones- Paraprofessional
Karyn Savell-Guidance Counselor 2D- Patti Kilcommins-Teacher
Karen Tata- Office Clerk 2E- Katie Gerrior- Teacher
2F-Nancy Chapdelaine-Teacher
Pre-School Physical Education /Health
Sherrie Flynn-Teacher Gen Nass/Gideon Cavallo
Patie McColl-Paraprofessional Art
Kaitlin Clement-Paraprofessional Heidi Quinlivan
Sarah Curley-Teacher Music
Donna LaVoie- Paraprofessional Nat Blankenship
Sue Finnegan-Paraprofessional Library Media/Technology
Tara Gauthier
Achieve Special Education 
Brittany Pepoli- Teacher Laura Refrigeri
Laurene Broden-Paraprofessional Michelle Withers 
Brianna Hamel-Paraprofessional Kristen Anthony
Alexis Wasiuk-Teacher
Nico Robuccio-Paraprofessional
Amy Shepard-Paraprofessional 
Reading Specialist
Kindergarten Claire Peters/Melissa Orlowski
K1-Kirsten Snape-Teacher School Psychologist
K2-Carly Surrettte-Teacher Alison Alves-Pigeon
K3-Sheila Bilotta-Teacher Antoinetta Spacciapoli
K4-Deb Zivojinovic-Teacher Paraprofessionals
K5-Nancy Murray-Teacher Sue Ahearn- 2nd Grade
K6-Amy Raffaelle-Teacher Marci Donahue-1st Grade
Julie Drake- Paraprofessional Specialists
Monique Mola- Paraprofessional Mary Sieling-Speech
Sara Call-Paraprofessional Sue Richards-Physical Therapy
Tracy Faraday-Paraprofessional Jayne Dusek-COTA
Shayna LeBlanc-Parapropfessional Maggie Porpora- Occup.Therapy
Kristi Schkuta-BCBA
First Grade Teachers Elena Oksanish-Speech
1A-Michael Coutemanche
1B-Nicole Bienvenu Cafeteria
1C-Kara Slattery Elly Forgues-Manager
1D-Christa Palma Karolyn Braman
1E-Jackie Favreau Custodians
Chuck Swift/Dominic DiLorenzo
ELL Teacher Darren Rosa
Meredith Weiss Shawn Sproul
Laura Wyld
===PAGE 120===
120 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
2020-2021 
The challenges of 2020 were monumental across the world, COVID-19 an unprecedented calamity with 
profound effects for the world’s population.  No school in the United States was untouched.  The pandemic 
brought with it sweeping changes, some positive, others difficult, but our school community, like our 
country, will never be quite the same.   
Turkey Hill Elementary School is in its fourth year as a grade 3-5 building.  There are currently 344 
students, with 111 third graders, 108 fourth graders, and 125 fifth graders.  We employ 25 teachers, 100% 
of whom are licensed in their assignment area. Our special areas include physical education, art, music, 
technology/library and social emotional learning. We are fortunate to have a half time assistant principal, a 
full time nurse, a psychologist, BCBA, and a part time adjustment counselor/social worker. Other support 
personnel who work across the district include two EL teachers, a speech and language pathologist, OT, and 
PT.  
January and February of 2020 were unremarkable:  the annual TIGER anti-bullying presentation for grades 
3 and 4, professional development in the Calkins Units for reading teachers, EMOTE pilot training (a 
program that tracks student behavior), formative assessments for teacher evaluation, TST (teacher support 
team) meetings and learning walks for administrators. The calm before the storm. 
On a Friday afternoon in mid-March we were called together in an emergency meeting to grapple with 
news about COVID-19.  After hours of discussion and searching for the best information at hand, we made 
the decision to close the schools for two weeks.  It was a difficult call, but we understood we were working 
in the best interests of our community to keep kids safe.  That started us down a road to fully remote 
learning right through June, a reality no one anticipated.  Our teachers had a single day, the following 
Monday, to gather their materials, laptops, teacher’s guides, plan books, whatever they felt necessary.  In a 
remarkably short amount of time they created Google Classrooms and invited their students to it.  We were 
hampered by the fact that not every student had equitable access to computers and internet capacity.  We 
followed the state guidelines to provide enrichment work; we encouraged students to participate and learn, 
but in the absence of accountability or grades it was an uphill battle.  MCAS testing was canceled, as was 
the 5th grade graduation ceremony, the field trips, assemblies, and end-of-year field days.  Teachers were 
only allowed to retrieve other items from school via appointments.  In an attempt at some semblance of 
school community, the administration created morning messages with birthday shout outs, question-of-the-
day challenges, as well as kid-humor riddles.  Teachers were not obliged to “live meet” with students but 
many did to reassure, answer questions, and provide support. They also worked closely with colleagues to 
present a grade level set of instructions and expectations for consistency.  We embraced the challenges as 
they presented, and made it through the year amidst community fear, isolation, huge changes in working 
conditions, childcare issues, and grieving the loss of “live” interactions with students. 
Over the summer, the superintendent created a number of committees to plan for fall reopening.  We talked 
through all the scenarios:  fully remote, fully in person, hybrid.  Ultimately, given the constraints of social 
distancing we settled on a hybrid model with a fully remote option. That meant we would have no more 
than half of our students in two days a week, either Tuesday and Thursday or Wednesday and Friday, and 
Monday became a fully remote day for all students/staff so teachers would have time to collaborate and 
plan in this new setting.  About 100 students (of about 350) opted for fully remote classes.  One teacher 
from each grade level took on that responsibility.  The other 250 students were divided into Cohort A or B.  
Classrooms were reconfigured to hold 12-13 desks, spread six feet apart.  Teachers created buffer zones of 
six feet at the front of each room to use their white boards.  Hand sanitizer was distributed throughout the 
building, including dispensers at each entrance, and students were obliged to use it upon arrival.  Signage 
was posted that gave students safe places outside the classroom to take a water/mask break, to stay to the 
right side of the hallway, to line up six feet apart.    
===PAGE 121===
121 
 
It was understood that all students and staff would wear masks in classrooms, and mask breaks each hour 
were added into schedules. Routes were planned for entering and exiting the building, as well as 
transitioning to lunch, special areas, and breaks.  Outside areas were identified for each cohort and grade 
where students could safely play.  The playground was off limits because of safety concerns.  The 
playground equipment (balls and jump ropes) were put away.  Students could bring their own soccer balls 
but had to commit to hands-free play.  Teachers had to reconsider when/how to distribute or collect papers; 
plastic gloves were distributed to each room to allow children access to classroom libraries. Team teachers 
and special area teachers sprayed down every desk at every transition. 
Individual desk shields were purchased and distributed for small or 1:1 group work.  Chromebooks were 
purchased and distributed at the beginning of the year so that every student had equitable access, and if 
there were home challenges with the internet, equipment was sent home to create “hot spots”.  Boxes of 
disposable masks and other PPE was distributed, and professional development was provided. Extra 
headphones were distributed with “safe” plastic covers for the earpieces.   
The first ten days of school were dedicated to professional development opportunities for teachers. There 
were new programs to use, strategies to implement, and obstacles to overcome. They planned how to 
present to A cohort students while still providing instruction for remote B cohort students.  They learned 
new programs.  They prepared for a new normal.  
The lunchroom was transformed. Instead of 12 to a table, there are either 2 or 3 to each table, all facing 
forward, designated and assigned spots, six feet apart.  There is no longer a table for condiments or utensils. 
Every item is in disposable containers and custodians walk around with rolling containers for trash. 
Students remain seated unless there is a specific reason.  At first glance it was difficult to fathom, that 
lunchrooms which are meant for informal social interaction as much as eating lunch had become such a 
sterile environment.  Remarkably, in the cafeteria and throughout their days, students have adapted and 
cooperated with the new rigid safety protocols. They are just happy to see each other, and overall 
enthusiasm about coming to school has never been so universally apparent.  
We developed a new arrival and dismissal protocol for car students:  in the morning, they entered through a 
separate entrance as bus riders and in the afternoon they spread out in the cafeteria and waited for their 
names to be called as their parents pulled in to the driveway. Initially that was a slow moving process, but 
eventually parents faithfully displayed their rearview mirror name tags for easy identification.  Buses were 
exited two at a time to limit any clustering.  Again, all students were prompted to use hand sanitizer when 
entering the building. 
School visitors were infrequent.  IEP meetings were held via Zoom, as were first term parent conferences.  
Faculty meetings and building leadership team meetings were held via computer.  Administrative meetings 
were also remote.  Individual conferences between admin and teachers, grade level meetings, and vertical 
team meetings were held online. The front office door was locked, a startling transformation from a 
frequent staff check in to a need-based only visit. Strict protocols were implemented for anyone at the front 
door, including “can I help you?” before the door was opened.   
In December we were excited to receive the necessary means to reinvent the hybrid model.  Every teacher 
received a large monitor to interact with remote students, a microphone/speaker that allowed remote 
students to hear both the teacher and the other students, a docking station, and a tablet that allows the 
teacher to “write” on the presentation screen.  They started to prepare to move to a fully live stream model 
for term three in late January of 2021.  
Another significant change has been the introduction of iReady, an evidence based reading and math 
diagnostic with learning platforms. All students participated in the initial assessment in October and it 
provided valuable information as to the strengths and areas for improvement for each student.   
===PAGE 122===
122 
 
We were able to purchase the reading platform, which is individualized to support every child’s growth.  
The ideal time spent is 45 minutes weekly and in November and December we acknowledged and 
celebrated students who put in the effort to meet that expectations; the same occurred for math work in the 
IXL platform. iReady offers a level of data detail we have previously not been able to access, right down to 
students’ mastery of individual standards. It is meant to inform instruction for teachers, allowing them to 
focus on areas of concern, as well as providing challenging work for students who excel.  
With the fortunate addition of a literacy specialist/Title 1 coordinator, we have been able to provide small 
group instruction for student’s at all three grade levels in both math and ELA.  This is a hugely important 
benefit to our school, to target specific areas for improvement and provide that service.  Our coordinator has 
hired on three tutors who consistently meet with kids on their off cohort days and work with them.  She has 
also provided several professional development opportunities for staff on iReady:  how to analyze, interpret 
and use the data it provides.  We have also received extensive support from our interim director of teaching 
and learning.  She works closely with our literacy specialists for the iReady support and has organized 
extensive pd on a long list of teaching tools, including Epic, Nearpod, Google classroom, Footsteps to 
Brilliance, Newsela, Jamboard, Kahoot, and Padlet.  She is a frequent visitor to classrooms to provide 
individualized support for teachers.  She organizes our vertical team meetings to document productivity.  
She organizes the monthly feedback from staff, students, and parents to help administration analyze and 
respond to the trends.  Both professionals ensure that our curriculum is evidence based, research driven, and 
aligned to our state standards. Our journey to improve literacy and math skills for all students have 
wonderful new navigators.   
It's been a steep learning curve for our staff and students this year to integrate the technology into learning, 
but we acknowledge that it has forced us to move forward to a “connected” level that enhances educational 
opportunities.  We have all been swept into 21st century teaching and forever gone are the days of overhead 
projectors, reams of worksheets and kids missing school unnecessarily.   While we anticipate the hope of 
being mask free, of offering a high five or even a hug without repercussion, of sitting close to friends or 
playing on the slide and swing set again, we also embrace the 1:1 student to Chromebook capacity and all 
that comes with that.  We will all continue to use hand sanitizer consistently and maybe stay home 
unhesitatingly when we’re not feeling good.  But,  we can also connect to each other despite snow storms, 
doctor’s appointments, or having to quarantine.  2021 holds promise.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
Heidi Champagne, Principal 
===PAGE 123===
123 
 
 
THES STAFF ROSTER 
Admin/Office/Nurse Role Grade 3 Role 
Heidi Champagne Principal Richard Bowen Teacher 
Kevin White Assistant Principal Kristen Stillings Teacher 
Rebecca Hyde Literacy Specialist/Title 1 Amy Harrington Teacher 
Meghan Marrone Nurse Danielle Celona Teacher 
Laurie Cooney Adm. Secretary Quinn Cavaco Teacher 
Jen Fletcher Adjustment Counselor   
  Grade 4  
Guidance  Erin Blanchette Teacher 
Gail Okerman Guidance  Gina Cote Teacher 
Alison Alves Pigeon Psychologist Meghan Russell Teacher 
Toni Spacciapoli Psychologist Charlotte Letendre Teacher 
  Lynn Marabello Teacher 
Special Areas    
Nathanael Blankenship Music Grade 5  
Julie Ferdella PE, Gym Michael Smith Teacher 
Heidi Quinlivan Art Brian Chartrand Teacher 
Victoria Whipple Library/Technology Heather Witham Teacher 
  Sherri Borreson Teacher 
Learning Center/Sp Ed  Rhonda Connery Teacher 
Ana-Sofia Fernandes Gr. 3 Teacher   
Amy Jones Gr. 4 Teacher Achieve Programs  
Lynn Major Gr. 5 Teacher Kate Robinson TLC Teacher 
Nicholette Dumont Wilson Reading  Christine DeFelice Achieve Teacher 
Meredith Weiss ELL Teacher Melody Henry Para 
Laura Wyld ELL Teacher Angela Stefaniak Para 
Kristi Schkuta BCBA Kathleen Jones Para 
Maggie Porpora Occupational Therapist Larissa Stacey Para 
Alicia Garamy Speech    
  Cafeteria  
Paraprofessionals  John Terho Café Manager 
Samantha Staples Access Sheryl Ewen café 
Cassandra Cardillo Gr. 3 Para Danielle LeBlanc café 
Kerry Roder Gr. 5 Para 
 
Custodians  
Liz Johnson Gr. 3/4 Para  Tim DeBettencourt Senior Custodian 
Kathleen Cordeiro 1:2 Para Grade 4 Dominic Dilorenzo Custodian/Night 
Carrie Arciprete Para Grade 3 Rob Roy Maintenance 
Stacy Lapierre Gr: 5 Para  Tim M Maintenance 
Alicia McAllister para/substitute admin asst.  Roger Hanks      Custodian/Night  
Nichole Proctor Title One Tutor    
Melissa Orlowski Title One Tutor    
Erin Gyles Title One Tutor    
 
===PAGE 124===
124 
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
February 2021 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support 
students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated, 
creative, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest 
communication.   The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the 
philosophy of educating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a 
means by which all students become positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in 
high school and beyond. 
 Lunenburg Middle School is in its fifth year as a co-located middle - high school serving grades six 
through eight. Effective, student centered middle schools embrace interdisciplinary teams of teachers that 
enable teachers to work with smaller groups of students. Smaller groups of students allow teachers to learn 
and engage students in their preferred learning style, making them more confident and successful.  
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of 
different interests and talents through special areas and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities. 
One of our goals is for students to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue 
exploring as they move through high school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for 
students that foster critical thinking and problem solving skills that prepare them for high school and 
beyond or where their passion may lead them to.  
Hybrid model of instruction 
On August 5, 2020, due to the global pandemic, the Lunenburg School Committee voted and approved a 
hybrid model of instruction for Lunenburg Public Schools for the beginning of the 2020-2021 school year. 
The hybrid model includes limited, smaller groups of learners in the building at one time and some students 
learning exclusively from home remotely.  
Prior to the students return to school in September, we faced many logistical and educational challenges 
with the hybrid model of instruction. Classrooms needed to be reorganized to allow students six feet of 
distance between their peers, and their teachers.  Disinfecting protocols and mask mandates were adopted. 
The cafeteria was redesigned to ensure and how students were seated in accordance with CDC guidelines. 
Additionally, the food distribution process needed to be changed. 
Outside areas were designated for students to take “mask breaks” with their classroom teachers. Space 
markers were placed in hallways and offices to assist students in keeping six feet apart. School buses also 
needed to adhere to physical distancing guidelines therefore the number of students allowed to ride the bus 
to school was greatly reduced. 
Students who chose the hybrid model of instruction were divided into “cohorts” or smaller groups of 
learners that attend in person classes twice a week. Assignments of students into cohorts took district wide 
coordination as families with children in different schools needed their children attending school on the 
same day in the same cohort.   
The “Zoom” platform of teleconferencing became an essential communication tool. Parent Zoom Drop In 
meetings were held to inform parents of the changes and guidelines of reopening school. Lunenburg Middle 
School has held several Zoom meetings for parents.  
With students learning both at home and in person, each student now required a Chrome book in order to 
access learning. All students at LMS were assigned a Chrome book. LMS faculty became skilled at 
utilizing educational platforms such as Google Classroom and Google Meets.  
===PAGE 125===
125 
 
The district invested in a variety of on line tools and assessments to assist teachers to assess and educate 
students both in person and remote. Before school opened in the fall, all teachers were provided with ten 
days of professional development to become more proficient in utilizing the tools necessary for effective 
hybrid learning. 
The social and emotional health of our student population was our top priority when students returned to 
school in September. LMS put several safety nets in place for students. Child study teams were developed 
that met frequently to discuss and review any students who were struggling and referred them to our 
behavioral health support team (BHST). The BHST reviewed students referred to them and offered supports 
to both the student and their families. Both teams were responsible for tracking students’ progress, or lack 
of progress, to determine what strategies were successful or what other resources we could offer.  
In order to support students, LMS also created the position of Engagement Coordinator for the 2020-2021 
school year. The Engagement Coordinator assists students who struggle to attend classes regularly or are 
not completing assignments to the best of their ability. The Engagement Coordinator works with students 
and their families to identify roadblocks in the student’s success and develops an engagement success plan 
with helpful strategies for students and families.  
In early December, Lunenburg Middle School 8th grade teachers piloted ”live streaming”, a synchronous 
learning model. Students were now able to engage in face-to-face instruction while at home on remote 
learning days. Live streaming increased the amount of face time students have with their teachers and 
assisted with engaging students who were at home with quality instruction. On January 29, Lunenburg 
Middle School adopted synchronous learning at all grade levels to adhere to the new requirements of the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education of 35 hours of synchronous instruction over a ten day 
period.  
Although the pandemic has forced us to postpone most after school activities, faculty at Lunenburg Middle 
School worked to offer students virtual access to some after school activities. Yearbook Club and LMS 
Science Olympiad were able to meet virtually and our Ski Club was still able to participate, without the bus 
transportation. Some seventh and eighth graders were able to participate in high school athletics like Cross 
Country and a pandemic version of Indoor Track, held outdoors.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that ensure 
student success and promote a passion for lifelong learning even during this unprecedented time of a global 
pandemic. The key components to our success continue to be our talented faculty committed to making a 
positive impact on students, our parents and community who support our teaching and learning, and most of 
all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learning during this difficult time. Together 
we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
Tim Santry, Principal 
===PAGE 126===
126 
 
Lunenburg High School 
2020-2021 
Lunenburg High School has been busy with academic and school activities in 2020 -2021.  This year has 
been a rollercoaster with all the changes and protocols due to the COVID -19 pandemic. Teachers have 
provided our students with rigorous coursework and hold our students to high standards.  Teachers have 
worked so hard to completely change how they deliver curriculum during this pandemic. Our students have 
met these challenges through collaboration, self-advocacy, and a strong work ethic.  All students in grades 9
-12 have been issued a Chromebook and there are wireless capabilities throughout the building.  All 
teachers are using Google Classroom, numerous online teaching platforms, the interactive projectors, and 
voice-lift capabilities. Our students are fortunate to be in a building that can meet the needs of the 21 st 
century learner.   
During the fall sports season, our students practiced and competed on our fields and artificial turf field.  
During the fall season, most of our fields were being used from 3:00 pm to 8:00 pm.   
The winter season has been very busy, as well.  The gym for a large portion of the afternoon and evening is 
being used by our basketball teams. Additionally, we have the hockey team practicing and competing at: 
Wallace Civic Center. 
 
NEASC ACCREDITATION 
Lunenburg High School has been accredited after going through the NEASC evaluation process.  
Lunenburg High School is currently working on growth areas and incorporating the graduate profile for the 
next NEASC accreditation process.   
 
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of fundraising and 
collection endeavors. Lunenburg High School participated in a canned goods drive to help feed people in 
need. Around the holiday season, advisories, LEA, STUCO, NHS and numerous other agencies collected 
items for the Annual Lunenburg Public Schools Secretaries Gift Card Drive.  The LEA made a significant 
contribution to the gift card drive to help families in need. Thank you to all who participated in these very 
worthy causes.  
 
MCAS RESULTS 
We do not have MCAS results this year because MCAS was canceled, by the DESE, due to COVID -19 and 
the closure. 
 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
National Honor Society successfully supported the “Gift Card Drive ” during the holidays, helping to 
provide joy to needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies.  The World Hunger Task 
Force will be raising money through Penny Wars this spring.  The money will be donated toward the fight 
against hunger. 
CURRICULUM 
The staff at Lunenburg High School has been outstanding at working through this pandemic. Having to 
completely change how we educate students. The work they have put in and the dedication to the student 
body is commendable. The staff have focused professional development in 2020 -2021 working on social & 
emotional health, online learning, vertical teaming, rubrics, the graduate profile, and technology.  A large 
focus of professional development has been on online learning and how to teach students during a global 
pandemic. 
Respectfully Submitted,  Rob McGrath, Principal 
===PAGE 127===
127 
 

===PAGE 128===
128 
 

===PAGE 129===
129 
 
 

===PAGE 130===
130 
 
As I reflected on the 2019 -2020 school year, and considered what might be included in the 2020 Annual 
Report, I was reminded of the progress and accomplishments made by our students and staff, during an 
incredibly challenging time.  While each year at Monty Tech is exciting and includes many “firsts”, 
traditional instruction ended abruptly in 2019 -2020, and students and instructors were forced to turn to 
technology to watch, learn and collaborate.  The all -important hands-on learning was not possible because 
of the unexpected pandemic, and so for the first time ever, our vocational instructors relied solely on their 
creativity, their understanding of instructional technology, and their technical skills to carry them through 
the end of the year.  Our academic teachers collaborated to create lessons and assessments that would 
effectively measure learning in a remote setting, and explored countless apps and platforms to increase 
engagement.  Students who looked forward to events like SkillsUSA competitions, prom and graduation, 
grappled with disappointment and the unknown, and Guidance Counselors worked diligently to reach out to 
students who were now more isolated from their peers than ever before.  To say 2019 -2020 was challenging 
may be an understatement, but to disregard our progress as an educational community would be a disservice 
to everyone who worked so hard to serve our students.  While the traditional school year may have been 
abbreviated, so many incredible achievements were recognized in this historic year.   
A  project more than 7 years in the making, the Monty Tech Veterinary Clinic, opened and began providing 
affordable veterinary care to pets in need, across our district.  Routine wellness care visits, affordable 
medications and vaccinations, diagnostic services, primary care surgical services, stable urgent care, 
compassionate end of life care, and dentistry services were delivered by our talented Veterinary Medical 
Director, Dr. Kayla Sample.  Students worked in the new state -of-the-art clinic, learning techniques and 
gaining knowledge that align with veterinary assistant programs across the Commonwealth.  In fact, Becker 
College has recognized the Monty Tech Veterinary Science program for its rigor and content, and has 
offered qualified program graduates up to 13 college credits.  Further, relying on the school ’s trusted model 
of school-to-business partnerships, a unique collaboration between Monty Tech and VCA has resulted in co-
op placements for Seniors in the program. 
In August 2019, Monty Tech accepted a $384,257  award from the Massachusetts Skills Cabinet.  This 
award provided funding to update technology and equipment in two shops:  Health Occupations and 
Automotive Technology.  Health Occupations students worked and learned in updated shop facilities, to 
include new hospital beds and lifts, as well as new diagnostic equipment to train students in the proper 
procedures for testing for cholesterol, blood sugar, lead, lung volume, and more.  In addition, the program 
received state-of-the-art virtual dissection technology, bringing lessons in anatomy and physiology to new 
heights.  This equipment, provided by Anatomage and most often found on college campuses, immediately 
engaged students, bringing a deeper level of knowledge and understanding to students as they explored the 
human body and its complex systems.   
Students in the Automotive Technology program were introduced to an all -new simulation lab, that now 
includes the latest technology in trainers and simulators aligned with NATEF standards.  The shop was 
updated to include new automotive lifts, floor jacks, engine stands, chargers, an air table, and a redesigned 
tool crib with all new hand tools.  Further, in 2019 -2020, in partnership with Snap On Tools, instructors 
rolled out a more sophisticated technical training program and increased opportunities to earn all -new 
diagnostic credentials, validating their experience and ability to diagnose and service today ’s computer -
controlled vehicles.  With new curriculum, technology and the addition of NC3 Automotive Diagnostic 
Certifications to the program, our Automotive Technology program graduates will enter a competitive 
workforce poised for success.   
Students who attend Monty Tech have chosen a high school experience unlike any other.  While completing 
all of the same high school requirements of students enrolled in a traditional, comprehensive high school, 
our students are also learning a valuable trade – skills they will carry with them for a lifetime.  In the most 
challenging times, our students are called upon to demonstrate creativity, innovation and technical skill 
proficiency, and though face -to-face instruction may have been interrupted, their achievements continued.  
On behalf of our talented educators and administrators, who remain focused on delivering the highest 
quality academic and vocational-technical education possible, I am delighted to present the District ’s 2019-
2020 annual report to you.   
Respectfully submitted,  Sheila M.  Harrity, Ed.D., Superintendent -Director  
===PAGE 131===
131 
 
 
Every student will graduate from Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School with the skills, 
knowledge, and abilities to be a productive and effective member of an ever-changing society. 
Our District 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is a four-year career and technical high school serving 
the member towns of: 
 
     
                                                                
 
 
 
 
Athol 
Barre 
Fitchburg 
Gardner 
 
Harvard 
Holden 
Hubbardston 
Lunenburg 
Petersham 
Phillipston 
 
Princeton 
Royalston 
Sterling 
Templeton 
Westminster 
Winchendon 
Leadership 
 
Enrollment 
===PAGE 132===
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Throughout 2019-2020, Monty Tech offered a variety of opportunities for students, parents, and community 
members to learn about and visit the school.  In October 2019, approximately 450 district 
eighth graders participated in the annual “Tour Day” event. Students toured our twenty-one vocational-
technical areas and learned about the school’s challenging academic offerings and exciting athletic and 
extracurricular programs. Career Awareness Night offered interested 
students the opportunity to return in the evening with their family members to further explore the facilities and s
peak with staff members. 
 The Vocational Interest Program (V.I.P.) offers area seventh and eighth grade students the chance to visit 
Monty Tech after school and participate in hands-on learning experiences across a variety of vocational-
technical areas.  While the program continued to attract a large number of students during the Fall and 
Winter sessions in the 2019-2020 school year, serving 518 area students, the Spring session was cancelled 
due to the widespread pandemic. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class of 2020 Awards 
Members of the Class  of 2020 were awarded approximately $200,000 in scholarships, tools, and equipment. 
The Monty Tech Foundation generously provided $28,000  in scholarships to graduating seniors, ranging in 
amounts from $400  to $2,000.   The Foundation also awarded $3,570 to the Practical Nursing 
graduates.  Once again, local and state organizations, as well as generous individuals, continue to recognize 
the ability and potential of Monty Tech graduates in the form of financial donations.   The School Committee, 
administration, faculty, and graduates are grateful for this support.   
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play  an important role in helping reduce the cost of higher 
education. Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits through a number of 
articulation agreements with public and private colleges across the country.   

===PAGE 133===
133 
 
Approximately 31% of the graduating class of 2020 reported plans to enroll at a 4 -year college/university 
upon graduation.  By earning college credits while still in high school, these students will save both 
time and money as they pursue advanced educational programs. 
Financial Report 
In an effort to develop a cost -effective budget for the fiscal year 2019 -2020, a great deal of effort was put 
forth by the School Committee, administration, and staff.   The final fiscal year 2019 -2020 Educational Plan 
totaled $28,760,202 which represents a 3.62% increase over the 2018-2019 Educational Plan.  The District’s 
FY20 budget only exceeds the minimum spending required by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 70 by 
$145,657 or .6%. 
 The District was audited in December 2020 as part of the yearly financial audit by the accounting firm of 
Melanson, Heath and Co. from Greenfield, MA and expects to receive a good report. 
Grants and Contracts 
Monty Tech continues to pursue grant funding on an annual basis. These funds help provide many 
educational and social services to the student population. For fiscal year 2020, state and federal grant 
sources provided the school with $978,827.  Programs funded by these grants include: Essential Health 
Services, Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services and Program Improvement, Title I 
Support, Perkins Occupational Education, Student Support and Academic Enrichment and Marine Corp 
Junior Reserve Officer Training.   
Academic Achievement 
 
During the spring of 2020, the administration of the MCAS was postponed due to COVID -19 safety 
precautions.  Last year, Monty Tech ’s passing rate on the English Language Arts was 99%, Mathematics 
97%, Biology 99%.  Monty Tech students exceeded the state averages in all 3 subjects.   With regard to our 
Accountability status, Monty Tech made “Substantial Progress Toward Meeting Targets.” 
 Monty Tech is committed to providing students with rigorous STEM learning opportunities, and so in 
recent years, the curriculum has been expanded to include Advanced Placement Programs (two English 
courses, two mathematics courses, two science courses, and one computer science course). In addition, 
teachers have participated in meaningful, high -quality professional development which has enabled us to 
successfully implement two Project Lead the Way biomedical courses and 2 dual enrollment science courses 
(Biology and Biotechnology). 
During the spring of 2020, students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued to 
demonstrate high academic achievement, earning commendable scores on AP exams.   It is important to 
remember that these exams took place during remote learning.   AP exams were modified significantly prior 
to testing, the testing environment was remote, and teachers may have faced some challenges in planning 
some of the components of the curriculum (due to COVID -19).  Although we are pleased with the results, 
we are aware that these issues, in addition to potential internal scaling applied by the College Board, may 
have significantly impacted the final results. 
  

===PAGE 134===
134 
 
The school is in its 8th year of administering Advanced Placement exams, and students enrolled in AP 
courses continue to improve their performance.   
 In the spring of 2020, 89 out of 146 (61%) exams earned qualifying credit - the highest number of 
“exams” with qualifying scores we’ve ever had.    
 This year, more than half of the students who tested in the following subjects received qualifying scores: 
AP Literature, AP Language, AP Environmental, AP Chemistry and AP Statistics (5 out of 7 subjects).   
 The AP subject with the highest number of students with qualifying scores was AP Literature & 
Composition with 41 out of 54 students (76%).   It was also the AP subject with the most “test takers” 
with 54 students taking this exam.   
 Students who completed the AP Literature, AP Chemistry, and AP Environmental exams exceeded the 
“state” averages in Massachusetts.   In addition, students who completed the AP Literature, AP 
Language, and AP Environmental exceeded “global” averages.   
 Most notably,  AP Literature and AP Environmental exceeded both state and global averages.   
 
Vocational Projects in the District Communities 
Unlike students in traditional, comprehensive high schools, students at Monty Tech are asked to put their 
education into practice on a daily basis. Students across the twenty -one different vocational -technical 
education programs are building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service vehicles, 
making walkways more accessible, and performing countless community services.  Unfortunately, the 
widespread pandemic forced a school closure, and vocational instruction was delivered remotely beginning 
March 2020.  In turn, opportunities for hands -on learning were impacted, and cooperative education 
placements available to students were also restricted, as business partners were unable to sustain full 
staffing.     
 Auto Body Collision Repair Technology:  The Monty Tech Auto Body program benefitted from much-
needed, new instructional equipment in 2019-2020, receiving a new Snap-On Air conditioning machine and 
a wall-mounted pressure washer, which provided additional floor space.  Students were trained with the Pro-
Spot M.I.G brazing and aluminum M.I.G.Welder, and all Seniors received their EPA 6 H Certificate, I-Car 
Pro Level 1 in Refinishing and Non- Structural Repair Certifications.  A bridge project was completed in 
collaboration with Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), and soon thereafter our community service 
projects were discontinued due to the pandemic.  Three Seniors and two Juniors earned co-op placements, 
and students performed quite well at the SkillsUSA District competition, earning a gold medal in Collision 
Damage Appraisal, a silver medal in Refinishing, and silver and bronze medals for Collision Repair.  (Total 
student enrollment: 63) 
 
 Spring 2016 
(SY15-16) 
Spring 2017 
(SY16-17) 
Spring 2018 
(SY17-18) 
Spring 2019 
(SY18-19) 
Spring 2020 
(SY19-20) 
MT AP Courses 5 6 7 7 7 
MT AP Student Enrollment 188 151 135 157 179 
Students with Qualifying 
Scores  39 (27%)  53 (44%) 46 (48%) 68 (61%) 89 (61%) 
AP Test Takers  145 120 95 111 146 
Total # of Qualifying Exams 44 (24%) 65 (44%) 58 (43%)  79 (54%) 75 (71%) 
Total # of AP Exams 187 148 134 146 106 
===PAGE 135===
135 
 
Automotive Technology:  The Monty Tech Automotive Technology program was awarded the FY20 Skills 
Capital Grant, and as a result students and instructors began the 2019 -2020 school year in a shop that 
included a newly designed and outfitted tool crib, five new floor jacks, three new automotive lifts, one air 
table, five engine stands, three chargers, and an all -new Auto Lab that includes high tech trainers and 
simulators aligned with NATEF standards.  Two additional certification opportunities (digital multimeters 
and scan tool applications) were made available to students, using the newly purchased Snap -On NC3 
certified training equipment.  These industry-recognized credentials and the new equipment will enhance our 
students' level of competency within the automotive industry for years to come.  Until the pandemic forced a 
building closure, students and staff in the Automotive Technology program had worked on or diagnosed 
more than 200 vehicles.  Students performed repairs that included transmission replacements, intake 
manifolds, brake work, and various other technical repairs, demonstrating technical skills that are required for 
any service technician in our area.  Three Seniors and one Junior earned co -op placements, while instructors 
continued to utilize e -learning program options to keep the remaining students on track and engaged during 
the closure.  (Total student enrollment: 62) 
Business Technology: Monty Tech’s Business Technology program continues to benefit from a unique 
partnership with Workers Credit Union. The opportunity to participate in teller training and financial literacy 
workshops has been met with great enthusiasm from students, who completed 9 modules and earned a 
financial literacy certificate.  Instructors, in collaboration with their post-secondary colleagues, continue to 
refine and develop new articulation agreements. The agreement with Mount Wachusett Community College 
will provide qualified students with college credits at no cost to the student. Students are eligible to receive 
24 credits from Mount Wachusett Community College. Opportunities to demonstrate customer service, cash 
handling, and accounting skills are ever-present as the Business Technology students successfully operate an 
in-house retail location, The Gear House School Store, and the Monty Tech Greenhouse. Five Seniors and 
five Juniors were out on co-op placements during the 2019-2020 school year. (Total student enrollment: 71) 
Cabinetmaking:  Monty Tech Cabinetmaking students are called upon for a number of projects small and 
large, across the campus and beyond.  2019-2020 was no exception.  Students completed projects that 
include: building a beautiful solid oak cabinet for the Fitchburg Alumni class of 1969, to be presented as a 
gift to Fitchburg High School’s library; designing and using CNC technology to manufacture signage for the 
Devens Fire Department; and collaborating with Worcester Polytechnic Institute to mill and CNC over 400 
pieces of ash to be used for strength testing for their engineering students. Sophomores in the Cabinetmaking 
program also designed and constructed three hundred fifty 10”x19” sapele charcuterie boards with pocketed 
cut-outs to accommodate two serving dishes and slate tray.  The finished pieces will be used to raise funds for 
the Student Scholarship Program, supporting the Class of 2021.  Eight Seniors and four Juniors earned co-op 
placements, representing the program so well.  (Total student enrollment: 67) 
CAD/Drafting & Design:  In 2019-2020, the Monty Tech CAD/Drafting & Design program welcomed a new 
instructor, Jesse Veinotte, whose talents will help guide the Freshmen and Senior experience for years to 
come.  While the school closure certainly curtailed the number of community serve jobs our students were 
able to complete, the curriculum was easily adapted into an online platform, and students were able to 
achieve a number of valuable industry -recognized certifications, including AutoCAD, Inventor, Revit, and 
Solidworks.  Twelve students advanced to the SkillsUSA States competition, representing the program well, 
while two Senior students were proud to earn coveted co -op placements, working at Process Cooling in 
Leominster, MA and United Plastic Fabricating in North Andover, MA.  (Total student enrollment: 61) 
Cosmetology:  The Monty Tech Cosmetology program is one of the only programs that students may leave 
and directly enter the industry, fully -licensed and ready for a career.  The state -approved program is rigorous 
and provides students with countless opportunities to refine their cosmetology skills on clientele who 
understand and appreciate the learning environment.  2019 -2020 was an exceptionally busy year for the 
Monty Tech Cosmetology students, who were compelled to raise funds for a local family in need, and did so 
by hosting “Staff Nights. ”  Monty Tech staff and their families were invited into the shop for discounted 
services, and proceeds were donated to support a young girl who tragically lost her father in an accident.  
Their dedication to community service and “giving back” was a hallmark of the Cosmetology Class of 2020, 
and a testament to the students who worked so hard and learned so much while in the Monty Tech program.  
Eighteen students took and passed the Cosmetology State Board exam, and are now prepared for careers in 
the field.  In addition, a total of one nine Seniors earned co -op placements in local salons – more than any 
year before.  (Total student enrollment: 86) 
===PAGE 136===
136 
 
Culinary Arts : In a typical year, Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and instructors operate a full -service 
restaurant and bakery, serving 90 -120 patrons daily.  They might also showcase their talents at regional 
events and fundraisers, working side -by-side with some of the area ’s finest chefs.  But 2019 -2020 was no 
ordinary year.  The school ’s Mountain Room Restaurant closed in March, and all in -person dining/serving 
experiences were cancelled for the students.  Curriculum transitioned from in -person to a virtual platform, 
which is challenging for the culinary trade, but the instructors did so effectively, seeking meaningful 
opportunities for their students to continue to develop in their chosen trade.  Despite the pandemic, all 
students successfully earned Allergen Awareness and ServSafe Certifications, which are important credentials 
to have for any entry-level position in the culinary and hospitality trades. (Total student enrollment: 97) 
Dental Assisting:  A critical component of the Monty Tech Dental Assisting curriculum is the preparation for 
the Dental Assisting National Board certification exams.  In 2019-2020, all students who sat for both the 
DANB Infection Control exam and the DANB Radiology exam, passed.  This 100% pass rate is a true 
testament to the high quality instruction in the Monty Tech Dental Assisting program, and something we 
continue to be so proud of.  A total of four students (two Seniors and two Juniors) earned co-op placements, 
while the remaining Juniors and Seniors participated in affiliation/externship experiences in area dental 
clinics and offices.  Monty Tech Dental Assisting students and instructors also worked closely with local 
health provider, Community Health Connections, and provided dental services to more than 35 students in 
need through this beneficial school-based dental hygiene program.  This experience provided valuable hands-
on experience, as students were called upon to assist the staff from CHC during each dental procedure 
performed.   (Total student enrollment: 60) 
Early Childhood Education: Students and instructors in the Monty Tech Early Childhood Education program 
are committed to community service activities, and the 2019-2020 school year was no exception.  Students 
and instructors raised funds for SkillsUSA Change for Children and held a Sesame Street themed “Baby 
Show” for the Gardner VNA “Healthy Families” program.  Two Juniors and one Senior were out on co-op, 
gaining valuable experience working with young children, and instructors worked closely with colleagues at 
Fitchburg State University to develop the program’s first-ever articulation agreement between the two 
institutions.  Fitchburg State University will now grant qualified program graduates up to 6 college credits, at 
no charge, recognizing the work they have completed while enrolled in the Monty Tech Early Childhood 
Education Program.  The Monty Tech Child Care Center continues to operate at full capacity but in a hybrid 
model, providing meaningful hands-on learning opportunities for all students in the Early Childhood 
Education program. (Total student enrollment: 60) 
Electrical: Throughout 2019-2020, students and instructors in the Electrical program wired numerous 
machines, equipment, computers, and lights throughout Monty Tech.  Students and instructors successfully 
completed wiring new equipment in the AutoBody Shop, and CAD/ Drafting & Design shop.  The students 
wired the new electronic parking lot gate, and began wiring two homes in Ashburnham, constructed in 
collaboration with Habitat for Humanity.  Unfortunately, when the school closed in March 2020, all hands-on 
projects for students ceased, so wiring those homes was completed by our instructors, who volunteered their 
time to do so.  Fourteen Seniors and two Juniors earned co-op placements, and continued their work 
throughout the Spring and into the summer months.  The Freshman class was filled with first choice students, 
which is a credit to the talents of the program’s newest instructor, Alex Thibeault.  (Total student enrollment: 
89) 
Engineering Technology: The Engineering Technology program at Monty Tech is a rigorous program, 
infused with a nationally certified curriculum provided by Project Lead the Way, and countless hands-on 
learning opportunities that provide students with opportunities to demonstrate creativity, make connections 
with prior learning, and earn college credits.  On October 22, 2019, the school welcomed Lt. Governor Karyn 
Polito, to celebrate the completion and ribbon cutting of the school’s new ARM (Automation, Robotics and 
Mechatronics) Lab.  All Engineering Technology students benefitted from the new technology available in 
the lab, including three Amatrol tabletop mechatronics learning systems with Pegasus robots, one Fanuc LR 
Mate 200ID/4S robot, one Festo MPS 203 mechatronics system, and one Stratasys F270 3D printer.  All 
Freshmen completed the OSHA 10-hour General Industry training and certification program, while two 
Seniors participated in meaningful co-op placements.  (Total student enrollment: 57) 
  
