===PAGE 1===
PACC 
Meeting Minutes of September 14, 2015 
Roll Call: 
1.  Meeting started at 6:08 p.m. 
2.  Committee members present were:  Rhonda Lisio, Steve Walker, and Faith Beall. 
Public Comments: 
None 
Review and Approval of Last Meeting Minutes: 
PACC voted and approved the minutes of August 10 with recommended changes. 
Coordinator’s Monthly Report: 
1.  Ending balance for FY 15 was $265,970.11. 
2.  Ending monthly balance for August FY 16 was $260,542.53. 
3.  Ten years of PAC financials (FY04 – FY15) were also emailed to CAC with a summary of revenue and 
expenses. 
4.  Local programming is up 7% to a total of 68%. 
5.  Emily, a S.T.E.P. student who is a high school senior is working four hours a week and training on the 
Tricaster and doing studio set up. 
6.  Jo McLaughlin will set up a training meeting.  She has already sent out a YouTube training for the 
Tricaster to Jason, John, Mike, and Emily. 
7.  Jo also needs to evaluate how well Chloe and Mario are doing on taping meetings.  She will get 
feedback from John and Mike. 
8.  No one entered the videotaping contest; but, one interested person called about it. 
9.  Mario has filmed “Jewels of Lunenburg” on the local farm stands for Channel 9. 
10.  The Eagle House project promotion is almost completed by Mike Wallman. 
11.  The taping of the Stillman Farms fair will be edited soon by Emily.  Vendors at the event were 
interviewed. 
12.  Robert Haig, a distributor of Leightronix, will be giving a product demonstration at the Acton Access   
this month at their open house.  Steve and Faith offered to go with Jo. 
13.  Jo will be on vacation some days this month and John will be the contact person while she is gone. 
Local Public Access TV Programming Coordinator Job Description: 
1.  PACC will send the information to the Personnel Committee, where they will review and format it. 
2.  Further discussion was tabled to enable Jo to review it. 
HD Channel vs. Purchase of Equipment: 
1.  Jo submitted an overview comparing Telvue and Leightronix. 
2.  She will check out the demonstration in Acton and report back. 
Purchasing Procedure: 
1.  The Committee voted unanimously to accept the Purchasing Procedure, which had been reviewed 
by Town Manager Kerry LaFleur. 
Business Plan: 
1.  A rough draft in the format used by Westborough was submitted by Jo for review and comment. 
2.  The Committee worked on defining goals and strategies to achieve them. 
Space Needs: 
1.  The PACC needs to create a wish list of space needs for the studio, office, archives, and accessibility. 
2.  Rhonda will ask the Space Re-use Committee of  Lunenburg  for updates on their planning. 
3.  The PACC will also explore other avenues, 
4.  Jo will also meet with John to assess needs. 
CAC: 
1.  The Cable Advisory Committee wants the PACC to submit a business plan. 
2.  It is also creating a town-wide survey to get input from town residents. 
Adjournment: 
The meeting adjourned at 7:52 p.m.  The next meeting will be on October 5, 2015. 
 
 Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk  11/9/15. 