===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes 
Nov 7, 2016 
Roll call: 
1. Meeting called to order at 6:10pm. 
2. PACC members present were Jeff Bajko, Steve Walker, and Faith Beall. 
3. Non-members present were Jo McLaughlin. 
Public comments: 
No comments.   
Review and approve meeting minutes from Sept. and O ct. 2016. 
1. Committee reviewed and approved the minutes.  
Coordinator's monthly report: 
1. Wireless microphones were installed in Oct.  They were tested and work great. 
2. Backup drive crashed and could not be recovered.  Programs are uploaded on YouTube and can be 
retrieved. 
3. Jo started researching online storage:  iCloud, google drives, c drive, etc. for video storage.  
4. Jo met with Spencer Long and he is working out well. He is very knowledgeable, and willing to record 
meetings and other special events.   
5. Jo found an intern agreement from Belmont.  She added Lunenburg’s information and posted it. 
6. Castus shut down last month during a taping of a meeting.   
7. VPN passwords to access Castus for Steve, Emily, and etc.  for backup.  
8. Jo met with the Superintendent, Steve and the police chief to review and go over castus for emergency 
purposes. 
9. Jo went to a Mass Access meet and greet in Franklin, Ma.  The presentation was given by a lawyer and the 
main point is how it is the committee’s responsibility to make policies for the boards.   
10. Jo met with the superintendent about recording the school board’s meeting.   
11. Bonnie Page contacted Jo about her show: a median. 
12. Financial report: Ending balance in Oct is $284,914.69 
13. Program analysis: 7 new programs this month.  6 by PAC and 1 received by sterling-Lancaster PAC. 
Finance Committee/special town meeting: 
1. Steve is still waiting to hear back from town hall if the PAC is on the town warrant. 
2. As of the moment, PACC does not have to meet with the finance committee to discuss our latest changes 
discusses at our special meeting. 
CAC and Budget update: review ready to release: 
1. There is no CAC meeting this month. 
2. The PACC would like to finalize the business plan. 
3. Steve accepted the board’s changes and revised the draft. 
4. The board went over the plan one more time.  The board will review and send the final changes to Steve 
before the next meeting.   
Adjournment: 
Next meeting is scheduled for Dec 5 th . 
Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk 12/14/16 