===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes 
Feb. 22, 2016 
Roll call: 
1.  Meeting called to order at 6:03pm. 
2.  PACC members present were Jeff Bajko, Steve Walker, and Faith Beall. 
3.  Non-members present were Jamie Toale, Jo McLaughlin, and John Henshaw.  
Public comments: 
1. No comments. 
Building reuse committee report by Jamie Toale. 
 1. Three years in existence. 
 2. Presented option 4 which would be revamp the bu ilding we are in now.   
 3. PACC is part of the long term plan for the town . 
 4. Faith made a motion to let the reuse committee know that we would like to stay in our     
                   current location, we would use more space if available, and we would pay a little for  
                   renovation. 
Review and approve meeting minutes from Jan 4, 2015: 
1.  No minutes approved. 
Coordinator's monthly report: 
1.  Feb ending balance was $281,261.55. 
2.  Telvue Demo presented 1/28.  Visited FATV to discuss their experience with TelVue (see 
next page).  
3.  Emily has finished her Fire and EMS project – running on both YouTube and Ch9.  Emily will 
start the Police segment of her project in February, as well as helping with the Girl Scout’s 
project.  
4.  Re-edited a segment of Emily’s School Tour DVD and reposted on Ch8 and YouTube.  Great 
response from the school community.  
5.  Met with Lunenburg Girl Scouts to review studio procedures and videotaped subjects on set, 
to prepare for assisting them with a project they’re working on.  
6.  Town Manager requested Town Hall videotaping to be set up for the conference instead of 
the stage for specific meetings.  Audio snake moved from studio to Town Hall to create a 
microphone extension for broadcast in the center of the room.  
7.  ZBA re-broadcast on YouTube audio failed due to copyright problem.  Music background 
played for a few moments at the beginning of the meeting recording and caused the 
copyright issue.  Meeting is being re-broadcast in its entirety on Ch8.  
8.  Continued editing work on the second Eagle House promotion.  Taping Wednesday evenings 
and special programs to promote the Eagle House.  Expect to complete project by the end of 
February / early March.  
9.  Taping FinCom on Thursdays in February and March.  Taped the first Storm water 
Management meeting and have started taping the School Building Committee meetings. 
These meetings added to the production calendar.  Emily will start Live production meetings 
in mid-February.  
10.  Added Painting for Pleasure to the schedule downloaded from MASS Access eXchange.  
Added Monoosnoc Presentation from LATV. 
PACC Fiscal 2015 Annual Report. 
 1.  Elaine just wants a report for town hall to ad d to the town 2015 financial report. 
 2. An extension was agreed on by the committee to give Jo more time to get this together. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Update of meeting with town manager: budget and strategic plans. 
1.  Kerri did not need the organizational chart. 
2.  Jo’s health insurance was added to the budget and was submitted. 
Cable advisory committee update: Business Plan 
1.  Steve presented his vision of a business plan.  We will work on a more concrete plan for our  
next meeting.   
  
Adjournment: 
1.  Meeting adjourned at 8:05pm. 
2.  Next meeting March 7 th .  
 
Meeting Notes 11.3.15 
 - Meeting with FATV to discuss TelVue FATV got TelVue in July 2015. The decision to get TelVue was 
made by the former Executive Director and the FATV Board. The people using the system had no say in 
installing TelVue. They have had 5 months of problems with broadcasting. One of the many problems 
experienced was with the encoders. A problem with live switching caused the FATV technical staff to 
install new converters and encoders to get the system to work. They have an 11T system with 12 
sources. To do Live programming, they have to go through 3 steps: Switch, Stream and Capture. To do 
the bulletin they must go through 3 steps as well; “Too many steps to do one thing.” Scheduling 
programming is cumbersome. Importing programs is incredibly slow. Scheduling signage (bulletin) is also 
tedious using Playlists. They mentioned that the scroll did not have an end-time, and would run until it 
was re-set at midnight, which is a problem with them. Although the TelVue technical staff was very 
responsive, FATV found that they seldom had an answer to their problems. Most issues were fixed by 
the FATV technical staff without help from TelVue. 
FATV concluded that they dislike the system very much, and if they hadn’t spent the money to use 
TelVue, they would trash the whole system. It is not user friendly or intuitive. 
 
Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk 3/28/2016.  
 
 