===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes 
Dec 12, 2016 
Roll call: 
1.  Meeting called to order at 6:15pm.  
2.  PACC members present were Jeff Bajko, Steve Walker, and Faith Beall. 
3.  Non-members present were Jo McLaughlin. 
Public comments: 
1.  We as a committee discussed having set studio hours for volunteers and at the time we decided against it 
until the town allocates our studio space with a reception area and secure storage for equipment.   
2.  Jo would like to move from PAC coordinator to PAC manager.  
3.  Steve will look into it and go through the proper channels to reclassify.  Jo recommended speaking with 
Nancy Forest; town HR representative.  
Review and approve meeting minutes from Nov 7 th  2016. 
1.  Committee reviewed and approved the minutes.  
Coordinator's monthly report: 
1.  Ending Nov Balance was $297,709.87. 
2.  FY17 Budget was presented to Karen, the town accountant. 
3.  December has been very busy with recording meetings and interviewing different committee members. 
4.  Jo bought a new table for the studio. 
5.  Jo went to a Castus training and made upgrades to our system. 
6.  Jo purchased Christmas music for background music on Ch. 8 and 9. 
7.  Emily started the virtual studio. 
8.  Mike Wallman will be starting to record basketball games and will update the senior center. 
9.  Spencer will be taping the holiday concert at the high school. 
10.  A volunteer will be taping the high school instrumental concert. 
11.  Jo is working on an administrative binder for operating Castus. 
12.  Jo bought a 3 tier byte backup drive and down loaded two yule log programs from you tube. 
13.  Jo started scanning Santa Letters and started uploading on PAC’s Facebook page. 
14.  Jo is working with Steve Malandrimes  to test the micro phone at the high school 
15.  Jo met with the new town manager, Heather Lemieux.          
Business and strategic plan update-Finalize: 
1.  The committee went through the business plan and agreed on the revisions.  
CAC and Budget update: review ready to release: 
1.  There is no CAC meeting this month. 
Adjournment: 
Next meetings are scheduled for Jan 9 th .and Feb 6 th . 
Meeting adjourned at 8:10pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk 1/10/16 
 