===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes 
Jan 7, 2019 
Roll call: 
1. Meeting called to order at 6:04pm. 
2. PACC members present were Jeff Bajko, Steve Walker, Faith Beall, Peter Lincoln, and Steve 
Archambault. 
3. Non-members: Jo Mclaughlin. 
Public Comments: 
1. Cable companies are trying to pass a law where they do not have to pay as much to Public Access 
channels.  Mass access is planning strategic meetings to help fight this.  
Review and approve meeting minutes from Dec. 10th, 2018. 
1. Committee reviewed and approved the minutes.  
Manager’s update: 
1. Ending balance of Dec is $157,248.08. 
2. Meadow will increase her hours in January. 
3. December’s calendar included tree lighting and school concerts. 
4. Manny and Gabe are new hires that will start in January. 
5. Basketball games will start to be broadcast this month. 
6. 53% local broadcasting. 
7. Letters to Santa is completed. 
8. Jo went to a Castus user meeting to learn how to stream through You Tube.  
9. Knight’s round table with the high school principle was recorded. 
10. The receiver for the wireless microphone is being repaired. 
11. Jo presented the committee a quote for new wireless microphones.  The committee asked Jo to reach out 
to Access A/V and ask for other quotes. 
12.  Jo presented the committee with a draft of the FY18 report.  The committee will bring corrections to the 
next meeting. 
13. The committee made a motion to raise the salaries for Meadow Galbo and Kevin Boussom from ten 
dollars an hour to twelve dollars an hour.  The committee passed the moti on. 
 
Budget discussion: 
1. The packets were sent to the committees 
2. Committee was given last year’s budget to review.  Changes were made and a motion to approve the new 
budget was made and approved.    
FY20 budget discussion: 
1. The committee started to plan the budget for FY20. 
2. The committee made a motion to allow Steve to make the changes the committee made to the budget 
and present it to the Town Manager. 
Adjournment: 
Next meeting is Feb 4th.             
Meeting adjourned at 7:56pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk 2/5/19 