===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes 
Sept 9, 2019 
Roll call: 
1. Meeting called to order at 6:10pm. 
2. PACC members present were Jeff Bajko, Steve Walker, Faith Beall, and Peter Lincoln.  
3. Non-members: Jo Mclaughlin.   
Public Comments: 
1.  A citizen contacted a board member asking why the school committee meeting about bus drop off 
was not recorded.  It was a last minute meeting and coverage was not available.  
2. The appreciation diner for town committee members is Sept 19 th. 
3. A board member was inquiring about access to PACC policy.  The committee will put together a folder 
for current policies.   
4. Two committee members applied for member at large for the building reuse committee. 
5. A meeting has been set for discussing a video technician salary and benefits with the personal 
committee. 
6. The FCC contract about new charges by the cable companies was presented to the committee.  
Review and approve meeting minutes from July 15, 2019: 
1. The committee reviewed and approved the minutes from last meeting.  
Manager’s update: 
1. Ending balance is $449,041.36. This is not the final number due to unpaid PO’s 
2. Jo bought new chairs and a printer for the studio. 
3. Three Sony camera kits were ordered. 
4. Kayla and Peter are working on the town departments project. It should be done in December . 
5. A fire inspection was conducted in the studio and failed due to obstruction of the emergency exit and a 
power strip being used instead of an extension cord. 
6. Castus maintenance yearly fee was paid. 
7. The PAC have nine videographers on pay roll. There is no need to hire another one just for recording 
sports. 
8. The PAC coordinator showed the committee the PO line item for purchase of service and we are $ 3700 
short of what was budgeted. 
9. A motion was made to transfer $4000 from the Equipment maintenance/supplies fund to purchase of 
equipment.  The committee approved the motion. 
10. July’s calendar was 46% local and August’s calendar was 47%.  
11. A motion was made to purchase a new mini-tricaster from Access A/V for under $10,000.   
 Discussion of audio options: 
1. The committee agreed to table the discussion until next meeting. 
Adjournment: 
Next meeting is Oct. 7th.             
Meeting adjourned at 7:12pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk 11/5/19 