===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes Monday December 5, 2022 Suldonik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library Lunenburg, MA 01462  Roll Call: 1. Hybrid ZOOM  and in person meeting was called to order at 6:11 PM 2. PACC Members Present: Steve Walker, Pete Lincoln, Faith Beall, Paul Sarapas (via zoom) 3. Manager: Jo McLaughlin 4. Paul Sarapas volunteered to take minutes due to absence of Steve Archimbault   Public Comments: None  Committee Comments: Pete Lincoln shared highlights of the conversation with legal counsel regarding broadcasting of meetings which may contain inappropriate language. PACC and Videographers are free and clear of any liability. If something goes remiss at a public meeting, the committee chairperson can stop the meeting, go to executive session, or end the meeting. Mr. Walker mentioned that perhaps Town Manager Heather Lemieux can remind committee chairs that they can take control of a meeting that may go remiss and it is on them to do so. PACC does not have to edit or beep out anything. If a meeting is paused for executive session, the camera needs to continue recording, and that real time footage blank has to be left in the final broadcast. It was also mentioned that video recordings of public meetings are NOT the official record or minutes. It was clarified that PAC provides recordings of public meetings for the public’s convenience. The Manager commented that she reminds committee personnel that they should not 100% rely on recordings for minute taking since things can go wrong with the technology.  Communications: None Review and approve meeting minutes from 11/7/22:  Motion to approve made by Pete Lincoln, seconded by Faith Beall, all voted in favor. Minutes from 11/7/22 approved.  Manager’s Monthly Report:  1. Ending Balance $929,239.02  2. Met with Superintendent and IT about Hybrid Meetings. Equipment has been ordered and will be tested. School District is purchasing. Superintendent will run  the meetings through laptop and sent to PAC for immediate broadcast. 3. Hired Matt Munroe in November – 12.5.22 starting date  
===PAGE 2===
4. LHS Basketball starts 12.12.22  5. Met with CASTUS and Bulletin Administrator via Zoom to discuss bulletins  6. Met with Lori Holden re:  Drunk Driver project.  Will start project week 3 December  7. Setup and recorded Town Meeting  8. Met with Steve W to review transmitters/receivers - STM post mortem  9. Added 7 new programs (5 local - PSAs)   10. Set up Final Cut on new MacBooks – ordered USB adapters  11. Instagram account is being set up. [will be known as lunenburgpublicaccess]  Provided photos and information. Info about PAC went into Communications Newsletter at FSU looking for volunteers  –following the manager’s report, Steve Walker mentioned that the “new transmitters that we got for town meeting came with non-functioning power supplies.” Status on this? Jo McLaughlin replied she is following up on getting good power supplies.  –Mr. Walker also made the suggestion that PAC purchase a portable tester which allows for testing of equipment without having a computer present. (troubleshooting before live meetings) Can be used either as a signal source or signal monitor for both HDMI and SDI. The device can be placed anywhere within a network that is created and see what is traveling over the cable(s). Cost is $800 which is the best price Steve can find. Although expensive, using this would have avoided the technical snafus that happened at town meeting. Mr. Walker is recommending Jo Mclaughlin purchase from B&H. Purchase is under $1000 so a motion and vote is not required. Also recommending a $50 HDMI cable tester as some HDMI cables may have been compromised. Now can test before setting up at Town Meeting, other live events etc.  PAC Drone Policy: Pete Lincoln reported on meeting/discussion with the Town Manager and Counsel. PACC cannot hire anyone, and cannot pay anyone for drone videography. If someone wants to volunteer to use a drone, that is acceptable. There are liability issues if PAC hired anybody. There would need to be a procurement/process bidding for any hiring out or procurement of drone footage. If it were put out to bid it would be a conflict-of-interest should any PACC member wish to bid on a job. It’s acceptable for a drone operator to voluntarily provide footage free of charge but PAC personnel cannot request this. It has to be volunteered to PAC, not solicited by PAC.   Paul Sarapas was tasked with drafting a written policy based upon the above information, to bring to the next meeting. It was requested to set this on the agenda for the January 2023 PACC meeting.  PAC Staff use of personal equipment policy:  Jo McLaughlin asked for input by posting a request for information on the Mass Access Forum, so far no replies. Jo McLaughlin will send out the question a second time to see if there are any 
===PAGE 3===
responses. Paul Sarapas will also speak with Jo and reach out to some local access centers. Work to be continued, please place on agenda for January 2023 meeting.  Adjournment: 1. It was noted that the date had been set as January, 2, 2023. It was determined that the library will be closed that day after New year’s day.  2. January meeting is re- scheduled for Monday January 9th,  6pm, Sudolnik Room, Lunenburg Public Library.   3. Adjourned at  6:55 PM a. [motion F. Beall, Seconded P. Lincoln-passed]      