===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	August	8,	2022		TC	Passios	School,	Room	11	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	2:01	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:		a. Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Paul	Sarapas,	Pete	Lincoln	3. PACC	excused:	Faith	Beall,		4. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:		• P.Lincoln	expressed	the	need	for	air	conditioning	due	to	oppressive	heat/humidity	during	recording	sessions	in	the	PACC	room.	• Motion	to	have	J.McLaughlin	begin	the	process	of	requesting	air	conditioning.		(P.Lincoln,	2nd	S.Sarapas	–	passed)		Communications:		none		Approval	of	Minutes:	• July	11th	minutes	approved	(P.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed		Manager’s	update:	1. New	programs	in	July	–	Lunenburg’s	Farmer’s	Market,	Resilience	–	Be	Prepared	&	Band	Concerts	2. New	affiliate	–	George	Mason	University	(downloaded	Resilience	–	Be	Prepared)	3. Have	30%-40%	of	CASTUS	backed	up.		Will	have	the	remaining	videos	backed	up	by	week	3.	4. Production	Technician	–	rewriting	job	application	5. Reviewing	audio	recorder	Zoom	H2	6. Working	on	FY23	PO’s	and	updating	spreadsheets	7. Will	be	working	on	project	list	for	Ace	student	intern	in	August.	8. Attempting	to	set	up	VPN	on	studio	computers	–	process	continues.	9. Will	be	contacting	1st	Middlesex	District	Representative	Canidates	to	record	10	minutes	in	studio.	10. Daily	program	updates,	scheduling,	editing,	staff	coverage,	finances,	etc.	11. Ending	Balance	$933,828.54	12. Reviewed	July/August	programing.		Local	programing	is	up	to	@	46%.	13. Church	is	now	an	automatic	live	stream.	A	good	test	of	the	new	system.	14. There	is	a	need	to	upgrade	all	the	Macbooks.		J.McLaughlin	will	reseach.	Motion	P.Sarapas,	2nd	S.Archambault	up	to	$10,000	to	purchase	apple	computer	and	related	hardware	to	replace	current	Macbooks.	(Passed)		15. J.McLaughlin	will	try	to	visit	the	Provincetown	studio	during	her	vacation	to	the	area.	
===PAGE 2===
16. As	an	aside,	P.Sarapas	thanked	J.Mclaughlin	for	her	detailed	report.		Future	Studio	Space:		• No	report	• PACC	tried	to	record	the	Municipal	Building	Design	Committee	meeting.		The	chair,	due	to	unforeseen	issues,	decided	to	use	a	private	zoom	account.		Which	CASTUS	did	not	recognize.	J.McLaughlin	will	retrieve	the	video	from	the	chairperson.		PACC	FY23	Meeting	Times/Dates:	• PACC	will	meet	the	1st	Monday	of	each	month.		In	the	event	of	a	holiday	or	a	snow	event	the	committee	will	meet	on	the	next	Monday.		• S.Archambault	will	check	on	the	availability	of	the	Sudolnik	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library	to	host	meetings.		Miscellaneous:	• P.Lincoln	requested	the	committee	create	a	PACC	Contact	sheet	for	committee	members.		S.Archambault	will	collect	and	create.		Adjournment:	1. Next	meeting	is	September,	time	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.	2. Meeting	adjourned	at	3:13	pm		a. (motion	-	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln	-	passed).	