===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	May	8th,	2023	 	Suldonik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:01	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas		3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:		• P.Lincoln	asked	if	nominations	item	was	added	to	agenda	(yes)	• P.Sarapas	mentioned	that	the	PAC	Youtube	channel	was	displaying	ads.	Suggested	looking	into	the	possibility	of	monetizing	the	adds	on	our	channel.	• Motion	–	to	have	P.Sarapas	look	into	the	possibility	of	monetization	of	the	PAC	Youtube	channel.	(P.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln,	passed)		Communications:		None		Approval	of	Minutes:		• April	10th,	2023	minutes	approved	as	amended	• motion	-	P.Lincoln,	2nd	P.Sarapas,	passed			Nomination	of	23-24	Officers:	• Discussion	on	process,	Town	Hall	has	not	sent	any	info.		• Tabled	until	the	July	meeting.		Manager’s	update:	• IT	installed	new	RAM	into	CASTUS	–	working	well.		• Put	laptop	in	control	room	to	control	CASTUS.	Opens	up	more	memory/processing	power	for	live	streaming.	• Two	new	affiliates	on	MMX	(Framingham	&	Springfield).	• “Movie	Talk”	picked	up	by	Oradel,	NJ	&	Framingham.	• Received	camera	and	video	rules	from	Lunenburg	Water	District.	Committee	reviewed	and	discussed	the	list.	Document	sent	to	Town	lawyer	for	review.	• J.McLaughlin	inquired	about	“Fair	Use”	for	movie	clips	on	MassAccess	forum.	She	shared	a	document	with	basic	“Fair	Use”	guidelines.	Information	will	be	included	in	all	video	project	instruction.	• Recorded	“Are	You	Smarter”.	Only	a	few	audio	issues	that	were	cleared	up	quickly.	New	CASTUS	set	up	worked	well.	• Recorded	Town	Meeting.	There	were	no	audio	issues,	went	perfectly.		• Requested	“Plug	and	play”	new	CASTUS	encoder	demo	with	Keycode	Media	(Access	A/V).	• Received	correspondence	that	School	Committee	would	like	to	have	their	meetings	at	LHS	streamed	live	to	Ch99.		PAC	is	working	on	details.	
===PAGE 2===
• Program	analysis	has	PAC	operating	at	70%	local	programming.	PAC	is	ahead	of	last	year’s	total	local	programming.		We	currently	have	98	shows	vs	a	total	of	82	last	year.	• LHS	Graduation	is	scheduled	for	June	6.	PAC	is	planning	on	live	streaming	the	event.	• Auditorium	test	bed	is	done	and	PAC	will	create	a	“baby”	test	bed	for	the	next	level.	S.Walker	was	very	pleased	with	results	and	process.	• Budget	Balance	-	$948,396.51		Enterprise	Fund	Investment:	• S.Walker	 researched	 possibilities.	 Response	 from	 Town	 Treasurer	 was	 that	PAC	is	allowed	to	invest	the	money	in	specific	things.	• There	was	discussion	of	process	and	possibilities.	• S.Walker	proposed	-	o To	 invest	 $720,000	 of	 PAC	 reserve	 funds	 in	 6	 monthly	 laddered	treasuries	 thru	 the	 Town	 Treasurer’s	 office	 with	 Bartholomew	 being	the	investment	agent.	o Motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln,	passed		PAC	Equipment	set	up	policy	review/update:	passed	over.		Personal	Use	Policy	Update:		• Tabled	• Need	to	run	wording	of	policy	by	Town	lawyer.	Future	meeting	dates:	• June	12th	set,	need	to	book	library	for	July	10th.	2023-2024	calenar	and	dates	to	be	discussed	then.	Adjournment:	• Next	meeting	is	June	10th,	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:1	pm		o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln	-	passed).	