===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	April	10th,	2023		Suldonik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:07	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas		3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-	None		Communications:		None		Approval	of	Minutes:		• March	13th,	2023	minutes	approved		• motion	-	P.Lincoln,	2nd	F.Beall,	passed			Manager’s	update:	• Hired	Eric	Foster	as	the	Production	Technician.	• Started	a	new	show	“Movie	Talk”,	with	Matt	Munroe.	o P.Sarapas	will	check	copyright	guidelines	o J.McLaughlin	will	check	via	the	Public	Access	Board	for	info	• HS/MS	Auditorium	simulation	at	TCP.	o Did	preliminary	setup	and	tested	equipment	o Waiting	on	Town	IT	to	provide	a	port	and	URL	address	o Later	in	the	month	schedule	a	dry	run	at	HS/MS	o Possible	live	trial	with	“Smarter	than	a	5th	grader”	event	• Submitted	earmark	request.	It	was	denied	by	the	Select	Board	• Worked	to	recover	“Talkin’	Baseball”	files,	unsuccessful	• Had	a	zoom	call	with	Nathan,	president	of	CASTUS	regarding	issues	o CASTUS	sent	more	RAM	but	it	was	defective.	o Need	to	add	a	dedicated	CASTUS	laptop	to	control	room	• Need	to	hire	a	new	videographer	to	replace	Eric	Foster	• Covered	the	Water	District	annual	meeting.	They	would	not	allow	a	table	mic	unless	we	had	a	policy	of	doing	so.	Audio	without	table	mic	was	horrible	o Motion	to	create	said	policy	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln)	o Policy:	“PAAC	will	use	appropriate	equipment,	in	their	technical	judgment,	to	record	an	event,	so	as	to	insure	quality	control.”	• Added	7	new	programs	to	Ch9	including	PSA’s	Concerts	and	presentations	• PAC	ended	last	year	with	63%	local	programming,	as	of	the	end	of	this	year’s	3rd	quarter	PAC	is	at	70%	local	programming	• Looking	for	a	cart/trailer/van	solution	to	mobile	shoots	• Two	new	affiliates	were	added	to	MMX.	Presently	programming	is	being	used	in	9	states	and	75	affiliates	• Budget	balance	$954,291.60	
===PAGE 2===
	Personal	Use	Policy	Update:		• Was	presented	by	F.Beall	and	discussed.		o Policy:	“PAAC	requires	its	employees	and	volunteers	to	use	PAC	equipment	for	PAC	assignments.	Exceptions	to	this	can	be	made,	with	prior	managerial	approval,	provided	the	individual(s)	sign	a	waiver	relieving	PAAC	of	all	liability.”	o Motion	to	adopt	the	policy,	pending	town	council	review,	P.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln	Adjournment:	• Next	meeting	is	May	8th,	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:13	pm		o (motion	–	P.Sarapas,	2nd	F.Beall	-	passed).	