===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	December	4th,	2023		Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:03	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Faith	Beall,		Paul	Sarapas	3. PACC	members	Excused:	Steve	Archambault,	Pete	Lincoln	4. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-	None		Communications:			• Steve	Walker	has	been	attempting	to	contact	the	Town	Manager	re:	PACC	motion	of	prior	meeting	to	re-define	the	Manager’s	position.	It	appears	that	the	change	has	been	made	without	the	expected	salary	adjustment;	Chairman	Walker	will	communicate	with	Town	Manager	as	to	the	change	not	being	in	line	with	the	motion	passed	by	PACC.	• Chairman	Walker	reports	that	he	presented	a	summary	to	Select	Board	on	11/28/23	of	all	of	the	good	work	that	PACC	has	been	doing	over	the	past	year;	Select	Board	seemed	pleased	with	the	report.	Select	Board	Chair	Jeffreys	noted	that	what	matters	most	is	to	have	a	schedule	for	PAC	new	space,	as	this	has	been	going	on	for	a	long	time.	• A	letter	from	Xfinity	to	PACC	was	shared,	noting	that	the		PAC	channels	have	been	changed.	This	letter	had	not	been	seen	by	PACC	as	it	was	filed	away	by	Town	personnel.	The	letter	includes	phone	numbers	for	emergency	and	trouble	reporting	procedures,	to	Xfinity	'Excellence	Operations	Center’,		most	likely	to	be	used	by	PAC	Manager	J.Toale.	Paul	Sarapas	asked	what	channel	numbers	were	changed.	Channel	99	got	changed	to	channel	22.	Apparently	Xfinity	changed	numbers	for	multiple	local	access	stations	throughout	the	state	without	informing	staff.	PAC	Bulletin	boards	show	the	updated	changes.			Approval	of	Minutes:		• 11.6.2023	minutes	approved	with	corrections	(motion	–	P.Sarapas,	2nd	F.Beall,	passed		Manager’s	update:		• J.	Toale	reporting.	Holiday	‘Storytimes’	were	recorded	in	November.		• November	Special	Town	Meeting	was	recorded.		• Recorded	‘Artists	in	Schools’	for	Lunenburg	Cultural	Council.		• New	Videographer	hired:	Chris	J.	Eric	Foster	will	meet	with	new	hires	Chris	and	Connor.	• Increased	postings	to	Instagram	and	Facebook	
===PAGE 2===
• Christmas	Concerts	at	Lunenburg	High	School	will	be	covered.	• Kayla	D.	and	Jo	T.	will	be	taking	Excel	classes	offered	by	the	town.	• PACC	Holiday	Party	12/21	• E.	Foster	and	Jo	T.	will	be	reviewing	Videographer	kits	to	be	purchased	with	ARPA	Funding	• New	Teleprompter	will	be	brought	online	• Purchased	2	new	SD	Terabyte	Drives	About	the	size	of	a	wallet,	for	MacBook	Final	Cut	core	file	backups.	• Looking	at	getting	NAS	storage	to	back	up	FinalCut	assets,	B-roll,	raw	footage	etc	• Balance	$988,203	plus	potentially	COMCAST	fee	will	put	Enterprize	Fund	balance	over	$1M	• 5	programs	in	November;	62%	local	programming	• PAC	Employees	will	have	Picture	Badges	issued	by	Town			Enterprise	Fund	Investment:		• By	Virtue	of	timing	nothing	to	report,	next	update	is	in	February.			Next	meeting:	-	January	8th,	6:00	pm.			In	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:30	pm	o (motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	Paul	Sarapas	-	passed).			Future	FY23-24	meeting	dates:	o January	8	o February	5	o March	4	o April	1	o May	6	o June	3	o Meetings,	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	will	begin	at	6pm,	