===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	February	6th,	2023		Suldonik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:02	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas		3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:		• P.Lincoln,	S.Walker	–	status	of	new	studio	location	&	Passios	still	fluid		Communications:		None		Approval	of	Minutes:		• January	6,	2023	minutes	approved	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed		• P.Lincoln	inquired	about	ceiling	leak,	roof	has	been	repaired		Manager’s	update:	1. Recording	Basketball	but	still	unable	to	live	stream,	working	on	a	solution	2. Budget	balance:	$919,624.90	3. Did	4	camera	shoot	of	Jan.	6th	Select	board	mtg	at	LMHS	on	short	notice.	S.Walker	commended	the	“crew”	for	a	good	job	on	such	quick	notice.	4. Feb.	will	only	tape	1	“Taking	Baseball”	show	5. Local	program	source	at	66%	6. PAAC	Town	Report	due	April	16.	Committee	asked	to	review	submission	and	email	J.	McLaughlin	with	suggestions/comments.	7. Report	of	issues	concerning	Jan.	17th	Select	board	meeting	broadcast	at	LHMS.	a. AV	Matrix	was	hooked	into	the	auditorium	sound	system.	b. CASTUS	was	accessed	through	a	“work	around”	at	LMHS	to	allow	live	broadcast	and	recording	to	the	program	server,	communication	with	Town	Hall.	c. IT	rigged	a	camera	to	be	used	for	Zoom	participants	to	see	the	venue.	d. CASTUS	connections	was	initially	successful.	Recording	and	live	options	selected	and	running.		e. IT	camera	and	audio	working	at	the	beginning	of	the	meeting.	f. Approximately	1	hour	into	the	recording,	the	CASTUS	system	froze	and	the	clock	stopped.	System	wouldn’t	restart	for	@	hour.	g. Viewer	texted	that	the	meeting	was	still	running	on	Ch8	with	choppy	or	inconsistent	audio	with	the	bulletin	sometimes	breaking	in.	Also	received	reports	that	all	channels	were	having	similar	issues.	h. Zoom	participants	lost	audition	off	and	on,	quality	was	intermittent.	
===PAGE 2===
i. CASTUS	recorded	18	files	under	the	recordings	folder	in	Auditorium	live.	j. Current	questions:	i. Was	the	frozen	CASTUS	failure	due	to	the	connection	between	the	school	and	town	hall.	System	reported	3T	of	7T	memory	available.	CASTUS	is	sending	additional	memory,	at	no	charge,	to	see	if	this	fixes	the	issue.	ii. Was	CASTUS	failure	due	to	the	connection	between	the	school	and	town	hall,	as	IT	was	having	audio	issues	as	well.	J.McLaughlin	is	meeting	with	town	manager	and	IT	to	flush	out	details.	iii. Of	note;	CASTUS	users	could	not	access	V5	and	audio	was	lost	on	all	3	channels	earlier	in	the	day	on	1/17	prior	to	the	meeting.	All	were	restarted.	k. The	committee	discussed	the	issues,	options	and	possible	solutions.	Three	areas	will	need	to	be	address	in	order	to	fully	understand	the	event	and	create	a	solution.	J.	McLaughlin	will	investigate.	i. Was	it	an	interface	issue	between	PAC	location	and	town	hall	location.	ii. Is	there	an	issue	with	PAC	equipment	iii. Is	there	an	issue	with	outside	inputs	Budget	Review:	-	The	PAC	budget	was	presented	and	discussed.	Committee	members	were	asked	to	review	the	information	and	send	comments,	suggestions	or	questions	to	S.Walker	or	J.	McLaughlin.	Proposed	PAC	Warrant:	The	PAC	warrant	was	presented,	discussed	and	motion	to	accept	(P.Lincoln,	F.Beall),	passed.	PAC	Drone	Policy;	• PAC	drone	policy	was	presented	and	read	by	P.	Sarapas;	motion	to	accept	(P.Lincoln,	S.Archambault),	passed		PAC	staff	use	of	personal	equipment	policy;	-	tabled		Adjournment:	• Discussion	about	timing	of	next	meeting	to	allow	time	for	S.Waker	to	attend	the	Building	Committee	meeting.	Move	to	2nd	Monday	of	month.	• Next	meeting	is	March	13th,	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.	• S.Archambault	will	coordinate	with	the	Library	to	see	if	PAC	meetings	can	be	rescheduled	for	the	2nd	Monday	of	each	month.	• Meeting	adjourned	at	8:17	pm		o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall	-	passed).	