===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	October	2nd,	2023		Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:04	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall		3. PAAC	members	excused:	Pete	Lincoln,	Paul	Sarapas	4. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:		• S.Archambault	reported	that	several	community	members	thanked	PAC	for	their	video	of	the	St.	Boniface	October	Festival.	Several	also	mentioned	how	much	they	appreciated	all	of	the	Town	Board	meetings	being	posted.	• F.Beall	asked	S.Walker	for	a	copy	of	the	legal	meeting	intro	for	her	records.		Communications:			• P.Lincoln	wanted	the	committee	to	know	that	“Talking	Baseball”	has	aired	for	9	years	for	a	total	of	75	shows.		An	excellent	track	record	for	cable.	F.Beall	also	added	that	P.Lincoln	has	been	a	major	influence	in	the	production	of	“Storytime”.	• S.Walker	received	a	list	of	Comcast	Cable	Channels.		#99	was	not	listed.	He	is	going	to	call	Comcast	next	week	to	clarify.		Approval	of	Minutes:		• 8.14.2023	minutes	approved	(motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall,	abstained	S.Archambault)		Manager’s	update:	(September	&	October)	• Current	balance,	is	$1,007,793.26	–	a	milestone	as	we	are	now	over	1	million.	Comcast	payment	was	added	late.	• No	major	spending	at	this	point	but	will	need	to	purchase	a	new	laptop	for	use	in	the	Town	Hall	Control	room	to	run	presentations	• Program	analysis	–	51%	local,	47%	other.	Newly	added	October	Fest,	Author	talks,	Historical	Society,	Jazz	Concert,	and	others.	• Football	started	in	September.	Went	well.	New	equipment	is	working.	• Starting	in	September	J.Toale	is	pulling	the	Town	Managers	Report	from	the	Selectboard	meetings	and	posting	them	on	youtube	for	the	public.	• Lost	2	videographer	candidates	• Began	PR	campaign,	via	facebook,	promoting	various	cable	offerings.		• Production	tech	is	working	with	school	IT	to	finalize	LH/MS	Auditorium	issues	• Produced	2	projects	for	Cultural	Society	(Artist	in	School	&	Pearl	Black	interview)	• Field	trip	to	Medfield	to	look	at	Black	Magic	cameras.	The	plan	is	to	visit	several	more	in	the	future.	
===PAGE 2===
• ACE	student	will	begin	on	Oct.	16	for	1	day	per	week.	• J.Toale	requested	a	“Go	Pro”	camera.	(motion	to	approve	S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall,	passed)	• PAC	is	looking	for	an	audio	expert	to	review	and	make	recommendations	to	improve	the	Town	Hall	sound	system.		Money	is	earmarked	from	ARPA	funds.		Enterprise	Fund	Investment:	• S.Walker	has	been	in	touch	with	Town	Hall	to	facilitate	a	monthly	report.	The	report	 comes	 out	 at	 the	 same	 time	 as	 our	 monthly	 meeting.	 There	 is	 not	enough	turn	around	time	to	get	the	info	to	PAAC	day	of.	It	will	probably	be	running	a	month	behind	due	to	posting	issues.		Next	 meeting:	-	November	 6th,	6:00	 pm.	 	 Please,	 note	 it	 will	 be	 held	 in	 the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:53	o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall	-	passed).			Future	FY23-24	meeting	dates:	o November	6	o December	4	o January	8	o February	5	o March	4	o April	1	o May	6	o June	3	o Meetings,	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	will	begin	at	6pm,	