===PAGE 1===
PACC	Special	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	December	9,	2024		Library,	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	5:31	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,		3. Excused:	Faith	Beall	4. Manager:	Jo	Toale	5. Public:	Michael-Ray	Jeffereys	(Select	Board)		Public	Comments:	-		• None		Committee	Comments:	-		• None		Future	Space:		• Discussion	concerning	status	of	Passios	structure,	o Roof	is	leaking,		o Boiler	may	not	last	thru	winter,	o Money	may	need	to	be	found	for	emergency	repairs.	• S.Walker	&	J.Toale	presented	a	“PAC	Space”	powerpoint	presentation	with	general	PAC	information,	space	requirements,	issues	and	concerns.	• M.Jeffereys	responded	to	PAC	questions	and	concerns.	o School	Committee	is	leaving	the	building,	o Gas	Station	is	only	a	talking	point	and	not	an	option,	o Municipal	Design	Committee	is	working	on	maximizing	space/use	and	all	department	had	space	cut	back,	o The	old	TCP	Design	Committee	worked	on	realigning	the	footprint,	people	wanted	more,	which	led	to	a	$30	million	price	tag.	The	committee	was	revised	its	charge	and	is	now	looking	at	total	town	buildings	and	how	to	maximize	their	use.	o Three	district	plans	were	created.	Each	plan	had	good	and	bad	points	so	the	committee	created	a	4th	hybrid	solution.	§ Current	Town	Hall	for	PAC,	§ Ritter	Memorial	for	school	offices	and	ACE	Program,	§ New	Town	Hall	for	all	Town	Hall	offices,	2	floors,	built	next	to	Ritter,	§ Passios	would	be	turned	into	a	Community	Center,	§ Turkey	Hill	Elem	School	is	a	wild	card.	School	would	like	to	keep	the	building	in	good	repair.	THES	could	be	used	by	the	Town,	once	a	new	Elementary	School	is	built.	o Current	plan	is	to	leave	PAC	at	Passios	while	they	figure	out	THES,	Ritter	and	Annex.	• Options	were	discussed.	o M.Jeffereys	will	bring	PAC	requirements	and	possible	solutions	to	architect	to	see	if	there	is	a	creative	way	to	include	PAC	in	the	future	Town	Hall	structure	and	still	meet	the	infrastructure	needs.	
===PAGE 2===
	Next meeting: - January 6th, 2025 6:00 pm.  	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:28	pm	• (S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln	–	passed)		2024-2025	PACC	Meeting	dates:		2025	Mon.	January	6th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	February	3rd	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	March	3rd	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	April	7th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	May	5th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	June	2nd		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	July	7th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	August	4th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	