===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	April	1,	2024	 	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:04	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Pete	Lincoln.	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas	3. Manager:	Jo	Toale	4. Community:	Debbie	Lincoln		Public	Comments:	-		• D.Lincoln	wanted	to	publicly	thank	the	tech	crew	that	dealt	with	the	TRICASTA	issue	during	the	taping	of	“Story	Time”.	They	did	a	fantastic	job	of	resolving	the	issue.	• D.Lincoln	reported	on	an	event	held	at	the	Dracut	Public	Access	Studio.	They	did	a	3-day	telethon	to	raise	money	for	the	schools.	The	Dracut	Scholarship	Foundation	in	partnership	with	the	local	access	tv	raised	$156,000	which	funded	66	educational	scholarships.		Committee	Comments:	-		• P.Lincoln	praised	S.Walker	for	his	excellent	FinCom	budget	presentation	• P.Lincoln	reported	that	he	was	welcomed	with	open	arms	to	join	and	participate	in	the	Master	Plan	Steering	Committee	as	the	PAC	Representative.			Communications:			• S.Walker	received	an	email	from	the	Town	Manager	who,	after	going	through	the	PAC	budget	spreadsheet,	gave	it	a	positive	thumbs	up.	PACC’s	presentation	was	correct.	  Approval	of	Minutes:		• 3-11-2024	minutes	approved	with	corrections	(motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed		Manager’s	update:		• Currently	at	76%	local	programming	–	108	shows.	Last	year’s	total	was	109	and	PAC	still	has	3	more	months. • Town	committee	meetings	have	increased	putting	a	strain	on	current	videographer	schedules • Added	a	new	show,	“Gaming	Buddies”,	based	on	video	games • Mat	is	producing	our	new	podcast	series • There	are	2	big	meetings	in	April.	Both	involve	the	Water	Department • J.Toale	has	continued	to	write	and	send	out	a	monthly	employee	newsletter • The	H74	S34	video	was	created	and	sent	out	on	Fri.	3/28 • Due	to	the	increased	demand	to	video	town	meeting	the	Payroll	videographers	line	account	is	almost	depleted.	Motion	(P.Lincoln,	2nd		
===PAGE 2===
F.Beall),	to	request	a	line	item	transfer	from	New/Capital	to	Payroll	Videographers	of	$10,000	pending	town	manager	approval.	Passed • J.Toale	will	be	on	vacation	Tue.	Throu	Fri. • PAC	ending	balance	($997,314.96),	is	off	by	$150.	J.Toale	is	in	the	process	of	rectifying	the	issue 	FY	25	Budget		• PAAC’s	Town	Meeting	presentation	was	presented	to	FinCom	and	was	OK’ed	for	town	meeting		H74	S34	• S.Walker	is	currently	working	on	a	letter	that	the	Town	Manager	could	sign	and	send	out	to	the	appropriate	people.	• P.Sarapas	met	with	Rep.	Scarsdale	who	did	a	presentation	and	talked	positively	about	H74	S34.		He	was	very	supportive.		Enterprise	Fund	Investment:		-		• First	quarter	report	has	not	been	posted	yet	and	should	be	available	for	our	next	meeting		Next meeting: - May 6th, 6:00 pm.  	In	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:05	pm	o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall	-	passed).			Future	FY23-24	meeting	dates:	o May	6	o June	3	o Meetings	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	will	begin	at	6pm,	