===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes	Monday	February	2,	2026	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:00	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Brian	Vienneau,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall		3. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-	None		Communications:		• S.Archambault	received	an	email	from	E.Griffin	with	a	guide	to	posting	Meetings,	Agendas	and	Minutes.			Minutes:	-		• Motion	to	accept	1/05/2026	minutes	as	amended	• 	(S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall),	passed.		Manager’s	Report:		• Continued	coverage	of	LHS	Basketball	• Audio	issues	with	Symetrix	audio	system	in	the	Bilotta	Rm.	Vendor	has	been	out	to	test	the	system	and	update	software.	They	think	the	issue	could	be	with	the	Network	switcher.	Will	swap	out	Network	switcher	to	test.	• Created	a	“Welcome	to	LAAC”	program	• Worked	on	FY25	Town	Report	• Worked	on	FY27	Budget	• Covering	TriBoard	meetings	• Dept.	Heads	Meetings	–	discussed	town	budget	shortfall.	Estimated	at	this	point	to	be	3Mdollars+	Still	working	the	numbers.	Need	to	inform	public	when	amount	is	determined	• Shut	down	of	TCP	impending	• Will	be	doing	a	feature	on	Brad	McNamara	of	the	LPD	in	February	• Will	be	recording	the	“Forum	on	the	Fiscal	Year	2025	School	Budget	Variances”	on	02/04	at	LAAC	• March	5th	is	PAC	budget	Presentation	to	Fincom	• Met	with	S.Walker,	S.Archambault	and	town	manager	to	discuss	warrants	• Researched	lawyer	for	Comcast	contract	• Balance	$1,048,313.64	• Added	9	programs	(mostly	basketball)		FY27	Budget:	• FY27	budget	is	still	in	progress	• Present	to	FinCom	on	March	5th	
===PAGE 2===
• Warrants	are	due	March	6th	• Still	can	not	access	@	$31,000	in	retained	earnings	until	it	has	been	certified	by	the	state	• Passed	out	draft	warrant	articles.	Will	send	to	town	manager	for	review	o Motion	(S.Archambault,	2nd	B.	Vienneau),	to	accept	Drafts	warrants	as	written	to	present	to	town	manager	–	passed		Annual	Town	Report	Review:	• J.Toale	presented	a	draft		PACC	Policy	Update:	• S.Archambault	presented	an	updated	table	of	contents	and	listed	missing	policies.		Master	Plan:		• They	will	have	their	final	meeting	soon.	• Town	manager	has	seen	the	report	• S.Walker	questioned	if	PAC	was	inserted	and	will	ask	for	a	copy	of	the	plan		Studio	Space:	• Future	unknown	as	TCP	is	probably	closing		Bartholomew	Account:	• Overall	profit	of	$80,572	and	continues	to	be	reinvested		Cable	Advisory:		• S.Archambault,	S.Walker	&	town	manager	wet	to	discuss	how	to	proceed.	S.Archambault		will	email	the	Select	Board	to	request	a	“Cable	Advisory	Committee”	be	formed	• Motion	(F.Beall,	2nd	B.	Vienneau),	to	send	the	amended	email	to	Select	Board	-	passed		Next	meeting:		Tuesday,	March	2,	6:00	pm.			Sudolnik	Conference	Room,		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:17	pm	• (S.Archambault,	2nd	B.	Vienneau)	–	passed)		2025-2026	PACC	Meeting	dates:		Mon.	March	2nd		6pm	Sudolnik	Room	Mon.	April	6th		6pm	Sudolnik	Room	Mon.	May	4th		6pm	Sudolnik	Room	Mon.	June	1st			6pm	Sudolnik	Room	Mon.	July	6th		3pm	Sudolnik	Room	(Note:	3	pm	time)	Mon.	August	3rd		3pm	Sudolnik	Room	(Note:	3pm	time)	