===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-off Program Committee
Minutes, October 28, 2013
Present: Doreen Noble, David Manzello, Kathy Herrick, and Shelley McCaie. Absent: Jean Larkin.
Doreen Noble opened the meeting at 2:30 p.m.
• The members in attendance reviewed the time slips submitted by the department heads that worked with
the candidates in the program. One candidate did not submit a time sheet and has stated to be excused
from the program in the future.
• The members in attendance discussed proposed sites and jobs for next year. Doreen Noble mentioned
that the school Superintendent was still interested in getting help in the cafeteria. The school was also
looking for assistance in the Special Education department. Doreen felt that a person working in the
Special Education department should have appropriate training before working there. All members in
attendance agreed. Kathy Herrick also reminded the committee that the purpose of the work the
candidates should be doing is helping departments with busy work that is above and beyond what the
department can handle not to replace paid positions. David Manzello made a motion that both jobs the
school was looking for help with do not qualify for work under this committee, Kathy Herrick seconded.
On vote, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
• The number of available slots for next year's work-off program remains to be seen. David Manzello
suggested that the department heads should submit in writing what hours they have available to commit
to the program. It is important to make sure there are enough hours available to fulfill the time the
candidates need to work.
• Suggestions were made on how to better promote the program. Shelley McCaie suggested the
possibility of the Lunenburg Ledger interviewing one of the candidates so they could share their
experience. David Manzello suggested that an ad be placed on the local access channel. Kathy Herrick
suggested maybe the Public Access Cable Committee could video a worker and highlight their
experience.
• The next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 5, 2013 at 10:00 a.m. in the Clerk's Office located at
the Town Hall, 17 Main St., Lunenburg, MA.
• Kathy Herrick moved to adjourn the meeting. David Manzello seconded. On vote 4 in favor, 0
opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 3:02 p.m.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully Submitted
Shelley McCaie, Committee Member
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-off Committee
NOV 0 5 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
