===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-off Program Committee
Minutes, January 27, 2014
Present: Doreen Noble, Jean Larkin, Kathy Herrick, David Manzello and Shelley McCaie.
Doreen Noble opened the meeting at 2:30 p.m.
• 6 applications were reviewed. The committee approved all 6 applications. There are 9 slots remaining
in the program.
• Doreen asked if one of the committee members could reach out to Department Heads to determine if
there are any new requests for proposed jobs. Doreen was contacted by Amanda at the DPW/Sewer
department; she stated they have a need for someone on a regular basis. Kathy Herrick will send an
email to all departments requesting they submit their requests by 2/6/14. This will help the committee
determine how many applicants can be approved based on the number of jobs.
• Jean Larkin made a motion to allow Doreen Noble to approve prior applicants without the approval of'
all committee members. New applicants would have to be reviewed by all committee members, Kathy
Herrick seconded. On vote 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
• Jean Larkin made a motion to increase the tax work-off deduction from $750.00 to $1000.00 to be voted
on at Town Meeting. Kathy Herrick seconded. Doreen Noble will prepare an article for Town Meeting.
On vote 5 in favor, O opposed.
• The committee discussed how to better promote the program. Jean Larkin mentioned running an ad in
the Lunenburg Ledger or having a table set up at Town Meeting. Kathy Herrick suggested an interview
with some of the committee members on the local access channel. Doreen Noble is going to look into
running an ad or getting an interview.
• The next meeting will be on Monday, March 3, 2014 at 2:00 p.m. at the Eagle House located at 25
Memorial Dr., Lunenburg, MA.
• Kathy Herrick moved to adjourn the meeting. Shelley McCaie seconded. On vote 5 in favor, O
opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 3:08 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted
Shelley McCaie, Cammittee Member
Senior Citizen Praperty ax Work-off Committee
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 19 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
