===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program & Taxation Aid Committee
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 0 5 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
MINUTES OF MEETING - Sept 15, 2015
Meeting called to order by Sue Doherty at 11:05 am, at Eagle House Senior Center. Members present: Myleen
Mallari, Jean Larkin, Sheila Craigen and Sue Doherty (interim Chairperson). Approval of May 20, 2015 minutes
motioned by Jean and second by Sue.
Review/election of officers: Town Clerk, Kathy Herrick, stepped into the meeting briefly to swear in
Myleen Mallari. Jean nominated Sue Doherty as the official Chairperson and Myleen second the nomination.
Review of calendar year 2015 program: There are 8 applicants in place, members received a list with the
name and contact numbers for all. Marion Walsh is out briefly due to illness.
All members received copies of the 2015 applications, release forms and the literature available for public
display. General discussion on how we can make public more aware of the program.
Myleen suggest shredding to protect the personal information on applications. Sue stated that she will contact
applicants for time sheets when needed.
Discussion of calendar year 2016 program: Sue stated that she will change dates on new applications
and have them ready when applicants turn in their time sheets. Sue stated that she will also revise the
pamphlets.
Myleen stated that she would like to have her assistant, Sally Deming, take her place as a member of the Tax
Work-Off Program. Myleen would still like to be involved however, have Sally attend the scheduled meetings.
Myleen states she will review the Bylaws. Sue confirmed there must be representation from
the
Treasurer/Collectors office.
Board Member vacancy: Sue stated there is one opening for the Tax Work-Off Program. We may need to
review the Bylaws. The Selectman appoint Tax Work-Off Members.
Date and time of next meeting: The next meeting set for October 27, 2015 at 1:00 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 12:00 pm.
Respectruly submittea,
Vlai yes
Sheila Craigen
