===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program & Taxation Aid Committee
RECEIVED & FLED
NOV 2 5 2015
LUNENBURG T0WY
CLERK OFFK!?
MINUTES OF MEETING - OCTOBER 27, 2015
Meeting called to order by Sue Doherty at 1:03 pm, at Eagle House Senior Center. Members present: Myleen
Mallari, Jean Larkin, Sheila Craigen and Sue Doherty, Sally Deming present as a guest. Approval of
September 15, 2015 minutes motioned by Jean and second by Sue.
Some discussion regarding Sally Deming (Assistant Treasurer) taking the place of Myleen on the Tax Work-Off
Program. Historically, the Treasurer/Tax Collector has been the department representative. It may or may not
be a requirement in the Bylaws. Members feel it should not be a problem. However, the ultimate decision
must come from the Board of Selectman. Sue will inquire with the Board of Selectman.
Review of calendar year 2015 program: Sue stated to date, she has received 4 out of 9 time sheets.
She expects to have all by Monday or Tuesday of next week. Once time sheets received they go to Nancy
Forest (payroll). The billing process starts in the Assessors Office on November 15 so all must be complete for
the credit to show on 3d and 4° quarter bills.
Approve informational paperwork for calendar year 2016 program: Sue distributed copies of
amended pamphlet, memos and various forms for year 2016. Myleen motioned to approve upcoming forms
and Jean 2nd
• All in favor. Participants in the program fill out their own time sheets and department head signs
off. Some discussion on cori checks for applicants. Departments must request cori check (through payroll).
Board member vacancy: Sue stated there is one opening for the Tax Work-Off Program. The fifth member
could be a citizen at large.
Department requests: Sue stated that the Primary School wants 2 people. Sewer and DPW are looking for
1 person to share. The Building Dept, Board of Health and Treasurer/Collectors all looking for 1 person each.
Date and time of next meeting: The next meeting set for November 17, 2015 at 10:00 am.
Meeting adjourned at 1:38 pm.
Respecttully submittea,
Sheila Craigen
