===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Program & Taxation Aid Committee
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 2 3 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
MINUTES OF MEETING - FEBRUARY 10, 2016
Meeting called to order by Sue Doherty at 2:05 pm, at Lunenburg Town Hall, 17 Main St. Members present:
Jean Larkin, Sheila Craigen, Myleen Mallari and Sue Doherty. Also present, Nancy Forest, who was appointed
at the Board of Selectman meeting last night. Approval of minutes motioned by Sue and second by Myleen.
Review Property Tax Work-Off Applications for placement in Town Offices: Sue stated ali is going
well. Applicants that were previously approved have been placed. Positions that have been filled incide
Selectman Office, Senior Center, School, Sewer Dept, Library and Building Dept. One applicant has been
placed half time at the Library and half with the Building Dept.
Sue did receive assistance from AARP tax representative. Members discussed the five applications that were
pending from our previous meeting. 1 application approved but there may be an issue with physical
limitations. Members approved applicant filing for the Fire Dept and another seeking the position with the
Board of Health. Another pending applicant has been approved and will be assigned when an appropriate
position is made available. The final applicant still has not filed necessary paperwork. Jean made a motion to
deny based on lack of proper documentation and no department availability. Myleen second the denial, all in
favor.
Sue received two new applications since our last meeting. Sue announced that she would abstain from vote
on the first applicant. Members reviewed and approved the first application with placement as requested to
the Meals on Wheels Program. The second application also approved and placement to the Primary School.
Discussion criteria for 2017 applications and programs: Some discussion on criteria for the program.
Members agree we would like future applications to be very clear in regards to income and questions
regarding physical limitations of the applicant.
Set date for next meeting: Members agree we may not need to meet until the month of May unless an
unforeseen situation should arise.
===PAGE 2===
•
Board Discussion: Jean stated her intention to retire in March of this year. She will not be seeking
reappointment to Property Tax Work-Off Program. She believes she is up for reappointment in May 2016.
Meeting adjourned at 2:47 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Se Uaigen
Sheila Craigen
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 2 3 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
