===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, July 1, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Amanda Moore, Clerk Renee Emkey, 
Member Glenn McLeod, and Member Brian Lehtinen 
Members Absent: None  
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Lunenburg Historical Society will be holding a book launch 
and author signing event for the new book, Images of America: Whalom Park. He stated that the 
event is on July 3, 2025, at 7:30 p.m. at Lunenburg Public Library.  He also announced that the 
next Lunenburg Town Band Concert is Monday, July 7, 2025, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at TC 
Passios and it will feature patriotic music.  He announced that the Town Beach is now open and 
that passes can be purchased on the Town website or at the Parks website. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
7:05 PM Application for a Special Event License for the Shrieks and Krieks Haunted 
House and Hayride Festival, Michelle Belleza, Executive Director, The Club: Lunenburg 
Teen Center 
 
Michelle Belleza, Executive Director of the Club approached the Board and stated that the only 
main difference with this year’s event is that Shrieks and Krieks will begin earlier, with a fall 
festival at 4:30 p.m. instead of starting at 6:30 p.m. Ms. Belleza stated that she has been working 
with Town departments in regard to approvals. The Town Manager stated that the official public 
hearing will be later in July or early August, depending on when the public notice can be posted. 
 
7:10 PM Joint Meeting with the Planning Board to Consider the Appointment of Adam 
Burney to the Planning Board 
 
Matthew Brenner, Planning Board Chair called the Planning Board meeting to order at 7:10 p.m. 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
Members Present: Chair Matthew Brenner, Vice-Chair Timothy Willsmer, and Clerk Amanda 
Reid. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that Adam Burney (applicant to the Planning Board) could not attend the 
meeting. Mr. Brenner described Mr. Burney’s extensive experience as the Town Planner and 
Land Use Director for eight years in Lunenburg. Mr. Brenner stated that Mr. Burney has not held 
a Town staff role for the past two years. Mr. Brenner stated that Mr. Burney is a resident of the 
Town. Mr. Brenner stated that Mr. Burney does not intend to run for the Planning Board seat in 
May 2026. Mr. Brenner stated that Mr. Burney would be an important asset for MBTA 
Communities planning and compliance. 
 
Member Glenn McLeod stated that Mr. Burney would be a tremendous asset to the Planning 
Board. Member McLeod stated that, as a former Planning Board member, he notes that not all 
Planning Board members are required to have Mr. Burney’s level of experience. 
 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Adam Burney to the Planning Board for a term to 
expire at the next Annual Town Election.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Roll Call Vote of 
the Select Board: Member McLeod-aye; Member Lehtinen-aye; Clerk Emkey-aye; Vice-
Chair Moore-aye; and Chair Nuzzolo-aye.  The Select Board passed the motion 
unanimously (5-0-0).  Roll Call Vote of the Planning Board: Willsmer-aye; Reid-aye; 
Brenner-aye. The Planning Board passed the motion unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
Adjournment of the Planning Board: Mr. Willsmer moved to adjourn the Planning Board 
meeting. Seconded by Ms. Reid. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
John Bowen Sr., 162 Highland Street (via Zoom): commented that Mr. Burney is an excellent 
choice as a Planning Board member. 
 
John Bowen Jr., 162 Highland Street (via Zoom): commented that Todd Holman, Cemetery 
Superintendent, is an asset to the Lunenburg community, and that the attacks on his character are 
unfounded.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
Matthew Brenner, Chair of the Planning Board, stated that the Planning Board held two public 
information sessions regarding the MBTA Communities Bylaw. Mr. Brenner stated that, based on 
the information sessions, he said it appears that residents are in favor of paper compliance. Mr. 
Brenner stated that 10 years ago the Town was the first municipality in the Commonwealth to 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
enact a 40R district. Mr. Brenner stated that the proposed MBTA Communities Bylaw would 
increase density at TriTown Landing from 22 units per acre to 26 units per acre. Mr. Brenner 
stated that due to the strategic planning for housing that Lunenburg has undertaken in the past 
two decades, the MBTA Communities compliance will not affect Lunenburg’s current zoning 
significantly. Mr. Brenner said that he has spoken to residents who would like Lunenburg to 
continue to be innovative and forward-thinking with its approach to housing.   
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s appointment of Kara McCarthy, Communications and 
IT Manager, effective July 2, 2025 
 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to ratify the appointment of Kara McCarthy as the 
Communications and IT Manager, effective July 2, 2025.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. 
Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Annual Select Board Appointments 
Tiffany Warren, 707 Lancaster Ave (via Zoom), described her interest in being appointed to the 
Lunenburg Cultural Council. Ms. Warren described her background in graphic design. Ms. 
Warren stated she had met with the Cultural Council Chair and attended a Cultural Council 
meeting recently.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Tiffany Warren to the Cultural Council for a term to 
expire June 30, 2028.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board. 
 
The Town Manager thanked the State delegation for championing $300,000 for the Lunenburg 
Public Schools in a supplemental budget bill. She stated that $195,000 was earmarked for the 
purchase of two transportation vans, $55,000 for infrastructure upgrades, and $50,000 for 
educational materials. 
 
The Town Manager stated that on June 25, 2025, damage was observed to a fence and play 
structure at Wallis Park due to a motor vehicle accident. She stated that a claim has been filed 
with the Town’s insurance company. She stated that the damage is presently estimated at 
$18,000. 
 
The Town Manager stated that through action from the 2024 Special Town Meeting, the MART 
Connect program was funded through June 30, 2025. She stated that the funding was not carried 
out through Fiscal Year 2026, and the program ceased operations on June 30, 2025. She said that 
grant funding was lost, and the Town stepped in to support the program to the end of FY25.  
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
 
The Town Manager stated that Town Counsel has had dialogue with the vendor Kenefick 
Corporation regarding the Flat Hill Road Bridge project. She stated that there will be a project 
update in mid-July.  She stated there was general agreement around a completion date and that 
they were discussing how to temporarily reopen the bridge. 
 
The Town Manager stated that P.J. Keating paved a section of Reservoir Road this week and 
completed driveway aprons on Mulpus Road and Eastern Avenue. 
 
The Town Manager stated that an ice cream social for Town staff is being planned for next week. 
She stated that this will be a celebration for the summer season. The Town Manager stated that 
Town offices will be closed this Friday in observance of the Fourth of July.  
 
The Town Manager stated that there is an IFB posted for guardrail replacement on Lancaster 
Avenue that will be posted on July 9, 2025, and be due on July 24, 2025. The Town Manager 
stated the former municipal building cleaning vendor’s contract was terminated, and that bids for 
a new contract will be due back on July 14, 2025.  
 
The Town Manager stated that the School Department has been actively vacating the TC Passios 
building and all staff offices have been relocated. The Town Manager stated that old files are 
being reviewed and purged and that internet and network upgrades are underway to support the 
relocation of PACC. 
 
The Town Manager stated that open positions include a Dietary Aide position for 9 hours a week, 
a temporary Dietary Aide position for 9 hours a week, and a temporary Meal Site worker for 36 
hours per week. The Town Manager stated that the Land Use Director position is being finalized 
and will be advertised soon. 
 
The Town Manager stated that Logan O’Connell, who was to begin as the Executive Assistant to 
the Select Board/Town Manager, left his Planning Assistant position with the Town and the 
Executive Assistant position remains open. The Town Manager stated that there will be an 
Equipment Operator vacancy soon. 
 
The Town Manager stated that there will be a vacancy for the Conservation Commission 
Administrator beginning next week. The Town Manager stated that the interim Conservation 
Commission Administrator stated that she is willing to continue to serve as the interim until the 
position has been filled.  
 
The Town Manager announced that there were vacancies on the following Boards, Committees, 
and Commissions: Agricultural Commission (1), Architectural Preservation District Commission 
(1), Cultural Council (2), Green Communities Committee (2 Associates), Historical Commission 
(1), Personnel Committee (5), Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) (1), Stormwater Task 
Force (1), and Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate). 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
OpenGov Software- Method of Adding Select Board Signatures for Licenses and Permits 
The Town Manager asked the Select Board if they preferred to individually affix their e-signature 
to licenses and permits, or to allow a Town Manager’s Office staff member to automatically affix 
their e-signature when a vote has been taken. 
 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to authorize Town staff to record votes in OpenGov for Town 
licensing and permitting.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. FY2026 Select Board and Town Manager Goal Setting 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Town Manager made some proposed revisions to her draft goals for 
FY2026. The Town Manager stated that she modified some of the goals due to currently not 
having an Executive Assistant to the Town Manager/Select Board. 
 
The Town Manager replaced the goal language regarding capital budget submission forms 
because it was decided to use OpenGov. The Town Manager modified a goal to hold a property 
auction; she recently found out that the municipality must list any property on the market for 12 
months before holding an auction. The Town Manager stated that the Town has several properties 
that individual boards and committees may have an interest in for town use. She stated that there 
should be an analysis of the properties and any interest that boards, committees, and departments 
may have. 
 
Vice-Chair Amanda Moore asked the Town Manager if she believes that these goals are 
achievable. The Town Manager stated that some of these goals may not be completed by the end 
of the year and may be multi-year goals.  
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Moore to approve the FY2026 Town Manager Goals.  Seconded by 
Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Member McLeod asked Chair Nuzzolo if the Board should revisit implementing a flag policy 
and incorporate it into the Select Board goals. Chair Nuzzolo stated that a specific policy 
formation should not be incorporated into the Board's goals. Member McLeod suggested that 
Town Counsel review the Town’s current practices for flags.  He also stated that he is concerned 
about the viability and the feasibility of regularly scheduled Tri-Board meetings. 
 
Clerk Renee Emkey stated that some of the Select Board goals should have a specific outcome or 
deliverable. Clerk Emkey suggested that, for the goal of digitizing the Annual Town Report and 
alternative notifications, she believes it should be considered for the Fall Special Town Meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
 
Clerk Emkey stated that for the Tri-Board meetings' goals and objectives, she would recommend 
having the Tri-Board meet regularly through the end of FY26.  Clerk Emkey stated that for goals 
two and three, she suggested that there should be language to include that the Board will review 
and revise Board policies. 
 
Vice-Chair Moore suggested that a town-wide Open Meeting Law training occur for board, 
committee, and commission members. 
 
Clerk Emkey suggested that there be language to include stronger language for the Municipal 
Building Design Committee formation in the Select Board's goals. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Moore to approve the FY2026 Select Board Goals as amended.  
Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-
0). 
 
2. Discussion on Tri-Board Meeting of the Select Board, School Committee, and Finance 
Committee 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that this will be a standing agenda item where Board members can discuss 
what occurred at Tri-Board meetings. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo read the draft of the ground rules for the Tri-Board. 
 
Vice-Chair Moore asked where the draft ground rules originated. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the 
Town Manager drafted the goals. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that after a meeting a 
month ago with the Chairs of each board of the Tri-Board, the Superintendent, and the new 
Superintendent, there was consensus to draft ground rules. The Town Manager stated that the 
Chairs of the boards have reviewed the draft ground rules.   
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Tri-Board meetings have been proposed to end at 10:00 p.m. The 
Board discussed the location of the Tri-Board meeting. The Town Manager stated that there was 
a desire from Tri-Board members to meet in a neutral room that the boards do not meet in 
regularly. 
 
Motion by Member Lehtinen to endorse and approve the Tri-Board Meeting Ground 
Rules.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
3. American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Update 
The Town Manager presented to the Board an update of the ARPA projects and their remaining 
balances. The Town Manager stated that the Town received a total of $3,507,970.58 of ARPA 
funds. The Town Manager stated that the Town committed all funds by December 31, 2024. The 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
Town Manager stated that approximately $900,000 is left unspent. The Town Manager 
highlighted projects. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the remaining ARPA funds from completed projects may 
potentially be transferred over to other outstanding projects in certain circumstances. The Town 
Manager stated that if the remaining ARPA funds cannot be transferred over to outstanding 
projects due to circumstances, the funds may not be available to be reallocated. The Town 
Manager stated that Town staff will try to determine ways to use unspent ARPA funds in 
allowable ways. The Town Manager stated that by December 31, 2025, all ARPA funds must be 
expended.  
• Turkey Hill Lions Club: The Town Manager stated that they are on track to spend down 
the funds and submit monthly invoices. 
• Bright Eyed Inc: The Town Manager stated that there is a significant unspent balance; she 
stated that she will be in contact with them. 
• PACC Equipment Upgrades: The Town Manager stated that she will work with PACC to 
determine if recently purchased equipment will qualify. The Town Manager stated that 
there is $4,119.00 that remains unspent. 
• Municipal Building Design Project: The Town Manager stated that there is a remainder of 
$18,500. She stated that she is working to confirm that all invoices have been processed. 
She stated that this project will need to be discussed further on July 17, 2025.  
• Fire Department Ambulance: The Town Manager stated that there are small amounts of 
funds remaining.  
• Turkey Hill Fire Alarm Overrun: The Town Manager stated that the project will start in 
August 2025. 
• School Department Plow Trucks: The Town Manager stated that the plow trucks have 
been purchased by the School department. 
• DPW Plow Trucks: The Town Manager stated that two plow trucks are still being 
outfitted. She stated that $480,000 of the approximately $900,000 left unspent is due to 
the plow trucks. 
• Tree Removal: The Town Manager stated that $28,000 will be spent this Summer.  
• Cement Mixer: The Town Manager stated that there is a small remainder.  
• Memorial Garden at the Library: The Town Manager stated that there is a small 
remainder.  
• Teen Room at Public Library: The Town Manager stated that the remainder would be 
decided between the Library Board of Trustees and the Select Board, according to prior 
conversations in meetings.  
• Marshall Park: The Town Manager stated that there is a remaining $13,266. The Town 
Manager stated that the Parks Commission and staff will be working with the vendor to 
produce additional deliverables for the ongoing project. Clerk Emkey asked the Town 
Manager if the remaining funds could be used for maintenance purposes of Marshall 
Park. The Town Manager stated that it is not possible. 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
• MUNIS Consultant & Web Deployment: The Town Manager anticipates that these 
projects will be done. 
• Town Hall Roof Replacement: The Town Manager stated that the project is complete 
with $7,700 remaining. 
• Conservation Commission: The Town Manager stated that the local match grant program 
is ongoing. 
• Cultural Council: The Town Manager stated that she will reach out to them to determine 
the status of the local match grant. 
 
Clerk Emkey asked the Town Manager for an approximate amount of funds that may remain. 
The Town Manager stated that there is approximately $150,000 in remaining funds that may not 
be able to be reallocated.  
 
Clerk Emkey asked if the Municipal Building Design Project funds had all been invoiced. The 
Town Manager stated that there may be additional invoices that need to be processed. 
 
Vice-Chair Moore asked the Town Manager if there are completed projects that may align with 
remaining funds. The Town Manager stated that she is in the process of determining that with 
Town Counsel.  
 
4. Discussion on Sick Leave Bank Policy 
The Town Manager stated that she has received feedback but is in the process of reviewing it.  
 
5. Tax Investigation Report 
This item has been tabled. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Principal Assessor will be in attendance 
for the July 15, 2025 meeting of the Board.  
 
6. 56 Carr Ave: Sell or Hold 
The Town Manager stated that there is no update on the appraisal. The Board decided that 
Monday, July 14, 2025, at 6:00 p.m. will be their site walk of the property.  
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Regular Session Minutes December 3, 2024, and December 10, 2024. 
 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to approve the Minutes of December 3, 2024, and December 10, 
2024.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Moore-aye; Clerk 
Emkey-Aye; Member McLeod-abstain; Member Lehtinen-aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. The 
motion passed (4-0-1). 
 
Warrants 
None. 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
Action Items 
Clerk Emkey asked when the tax bills would be sent. The Town Manager stated that the bills 
have been sent.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Member McLeod stated that he needs guidance regarding the MMPO and MART 
responsibilities. Chair Nuzzolo stated that he will provide that information to Mr. McLeod. 
 
Member Lehtinen stated that the Board of Assessors did meet on June 11, 2025, and is meeting 
again on July 16, 2025. Member Lehtinen stated that the School Committee met on June 18, 
2025, and stated that Dr. Burnham has retired after 38 years in education. Member Lehtinen 
stated that the School Department’s Turkey Hill Offices were moved on June 26, 2025. 
 
Clerk Emkey stated that the Stormwater Task Force met last Thursday. She stated that the Task 
Force has discussed with the consultant stormwater utility rate structures, surcharges, and tiers. 
Clerk Emkey stated that the Stormwater Task Force plans to present to the Select Board and 
Finance Committee by September, then a presentation at the Fall Special Town Meeting, to bring 
forward a formal plan by the May Annual Town Meeting. 
 
Vice-Chair Moore stated that the Master Plan Steering Committee quorum has been reduced to 
five members. Vice-Chair Moore stated that the consultant was there and made a brief 
presentation. Vice-Chair Moore stated that the Master Plan Steering Committee will be meeting 
regularly on the second and fourth Wednesday of the month. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on July 8, 2025 (Tri-Board 
meeting of the Select Board, School Committee, and Finance Committee), July 14, 2025, site 
walk, and July 15, 2025. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None.  
 
Public Comment 
John Bowen, 162 Highland Street (via Zoom): commented that the North Cemetery has several 
shrubs and bushes that he believes need to be tied back. Mr. Bowen commented that the 
condition of North Cemetery needs to be addressed by the Cemetery Commission. Mr. Bowen 
stated that he was not appointed to the Cemetery Commission. Mr. Bowen commented that he 
believes the Cemetery Commission is failing the Town. 
 
 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 1, 2025 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Chair Nuzzolo moved to enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(2) to 
conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel (Town Manager) and MGL c. 30 
§21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body, and the Chair so 
declares (New England Police Benevolent Association, Local 353) not to return to Open 
Session after exiting Executive Session.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore.  Roll Call Vote: 
Vice-Chair Moore-aye; Clerk Emkey-Aye; Member McLeod-Aye; Member Lehtinen-Aye; 
Chair Nuzzolo-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned after Executive Session at 10:17 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday, July 21, 2026 
 
Vice-Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of April 30, 2026. Seconded 
by Clerk McLeod. Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
*Correction: December 31, 2026 
 
 
 