===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk Renee Emkey, Member Glenn McLeod, and 
Member Brian Lehtinen. 
Members Absent: Vice-Chair Amanda Moore  
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live 
and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics 
that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be 
brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that nominations are open for special merit awards for the Salary 
Administration Plan (SAP) employees to recognize outstanding contributions by Town staff. 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that residents, board and committee members, department heads, and 
fellow employees can nominate a deserving SAP employee for a special merit award. Chair 
Nuzzolo stated that nominations can be submitted on a form on the Town’s website by July 24, 
2025. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
7:15 PM Tollbooth Fundraiser Request, Lunenburg Music Aiders for August 9, 2025 from 
10 a.m. - 3 p.m. 
 
Laura Barooshian, 389 Mulpus Road, submitted the certificate for a tollbooth fundraiser request. 
Ms. Barooshian stated that the Lunenburg Music Aiders provides monetary support and 
assistance for the School department's music programs. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to approve the Tollbooth Fundraiser Request for Lunenburg 
Music Aiders for August 9, 2025, from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.  Seconded by Clerk Emkey.  
Call for the vote: Clerk Emkey-aye; Member Lehtinen-aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye; Member 
McLeod-nay. The motion passed (3-1-0). 
 
7:00 PM Role and Jurisdiction of the Lunenburg Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds, 
presented by Town Counsel 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
 
Adam J. Costa, Town Counsel, stated that there were two inquiries made by board members of 
the Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds regarding the roles and jurisdiction of the entity. 
Town Counsel described Article 3 Subsection 11 of the Town Charter, which outlines the 
composition and term of office for the Board of Commissioners and identifies the powers and 
duties of the Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds. Town Counsel stated that the Town 
Charter mimics Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 41, Section 45, which allows for the 
creation of Boards of Commissioners of Trust Funds. 
 
Town Counsel stated that the Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds is comprised of a three-
member board that is elected for three-year terms, in such a manner that every year, the term of 
one member expires. Town Counsel stated that it can be common for vacancies to occur on the 
Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds or other lesser-known boards. 
 
Town Counsel stated that two individuals were elected as write-in candidates for the Board of 
Commissioners of Trust Funds recently. Town Counsel stated that the Town Manager provided 
Town Counsel with a list of funds that are within the Town’s possession. Town Counsel stated 
that there are four categories of funds: conservation funds, library funds, cemetery funds, and 
miscellaneous funds. Town Counsel stated that conservation funds are within the purview of the 
Conservation Commission; he added that library funds are within the purview of the Library 
Board of Trustees. Town Counsel stated that cemetery funds are within the purview of the 
Cemetery Commission. Town Counsel stated that miscellaneous funds may have oversight of the 
Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds. 
 
Town Counsel stated that the Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds is not unique to the Town 
of Lunenburg. Town Counsel described the City of Salem, which has a webpage for funds that 
are under the purview of the Board of Commissions of Trust Funds. 
 
Town Counsel stated that there are five miscellaneous funds, with varying degrees of originating 
documentation. Chair Nuzzolo asked the Town Manager if there have been challenges with 
determining the originating documentation of some of the miscellaneous funds.  
 
The Town Manager stated that as of March 25, 2025, the balance of the miscellaneous funds is as 
follows: 
• American Legion Poor Fund: $12,489.53 
• J&M Howard Sidewalk: $22,211.58 
• Worthy Poor: $22,887.22 
• Gazebo Restoration: $10,725.46 
• Lunenburg Post 283: $8,690.14 
The Town Manager stated that the Town has found two of the controlling documents for 
miscellaneous funds. The Town Manager stated that after speaking with a former member of the 
Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds, it has been an apparent issue for years. The Town 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
Manager stated that the Treasurer/Collector will have to do research to find the other originating 
documents and work with Town Counsel on the distribution of the funds. 
 
Clerk Renee Emkey asked the Town Manager which documents had been found. The Town 
Manager stated that Worthy Poor and the American Legion Poor Fund have originating 
documents. 
 
John Bowen, 162 Highland Street, Board of Commissioners of Trust Funds Chair, stated that he 
believed that the workers' compensation fund may be under the purview of the Board of 
Commissioners of Trust Funds. Mr. Bowen stated that he believes the library funds are managed 
under the Library Board of Trustees, while the conservation and cemetery funds are not managed 
by private entities. Mr. Bowen stated that he believes that Town Counsel has provided clarity but 
not evidence to support the determination that the cemetery funds are under the purview of the 
Cemetery Commission and the conservation funds are under the purview of the Conservation 
Commission. Mr. Bowen stated that he believes one entity, the Board of Commissioners of Trust 
Funds, should have purview over all funds. 
 
Town Counsel stated that he cited case law for the library funds, for which they are under the 
purview of the Library Board of Trustees. Town Counsel stated that there were no cited case laws 
for conservation funds and cemetery funds. Town Counsel stated that no case law applies to this 
situation. Town Counsel stated that there are statutory provisions that address the creation of 
those entities and the authority they have with respect to their monies, including monies that are 
held in trust. 
 
Town Counsel stated that his firm contacted the Division of Local Services (DLS) and received a 
general confirmation of the analysis that was provided to the Select Board. 
 
7:20 PM Joint Meeting with the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee to 
Discuss the Direction for the Town Hall and Ritter Memorial Building Projects 
 
Vice Chair David Blatt called the Municipal Building Design Committee meeting to order at 
7:56 p.m. 
 
Mr. Blatt described the elements that the Municipal Building Design Committee grappled with in 
regard to the consolidation of the town government services in one building and the ADA 
compliance aspects. Mr. Blatt described public feedback as identifying misconceptions and 
misunderstandings regarding the conditions of buildings. 
 
Member Brian Lehtinen stated that in a prior Select Board meeting, it was discussed that there 
was $18,500 that remained unspent regarding the building design study. Member Lehtinen stated 
that the funds were already fully spent, and the invoices are being processed. 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the proposed Town Hall and Ritter Memorial Building projects were 
six votes shy of being passed at a prior town meeting. Chair Nuzzolo asked the Municipal 
Building Design Committee if they had decided to bring their original plan back to the Fall 
Special Town Meeting. Mr. Blatt stated that the new School Superintendent may have a different 
vision.  
 
Clerk Emkey asked if the Committee has received any feedback regarding suggested changes 
since the town meeting. Mr. Blatt stated that the Committee received comments regarding the 
large-scale vision of the project and the economic feasibility. 
 
Member Glenn McLeod stated that he believes the current project plan should not move forward 
to the Fall Special Town Meeting. Member McLeod thanked the Committee for their efforts. 
Member McLeod stated that in the future, there will be a more collaborative approach with the 
Committee and the Select Board.  
 
Clerk Emkey noted the decreased composition of members of the Committee. Clerk Emkey 
stated that she would not support bringing forward the same plan. Clerk Emkey stated that public 
outreach for this project was at an inopportune time in regards to the override. Clerk Emkey 
stated that there should be a voting representative of the APDC and that she believes it should be 
Anthony Sculimbrene. Clerk Emkey stated that she believes that the Facilities Director should be 
more heavily involved in the Committee moving forward. Clerk Emkey stated that she does not 
believe the ACE program should be in the Town Hall. Clerk Emkey stated that she would like to 
see a large enough space for department head meetings within the new Town Hall. Clerk Emkey 
suggested that Brooks House could be a location for ACE. Clerk Emkey stated that it was a 
missed opportunity for the Committee at Town Meeting to discuss debt capacity. Clerk Emkey 
stated that the Committee should utilize PACC for short video clips for the Town Meeting. 
 
Member Lehtinen stated that he would not support bringing forward the same plan. Member 
Lehtinen stated that the Committee should work with PACC leadership to determine alternative 
spaces. He stated that the new Superintendent needs to be considered moving forward.  
 
Mr. Sculimbrene stated that the new Superintendent has different ideas as to where the ACE 
program could be located. Mr. Sculimbrene stated that he is thankful that the Town did not vote 
to approve the project. Mr. Sculimbrene stated that the Committee needed to get the Town 
Manager and staff involved in this process. He stated that the Committee and the Town need to 
review the primary Town services and functions in the design of the new Town Hall. 
 
The Town Manager suggested surveying town meeting voters to determine why they voted the 
way they did may be beneficial for future planning and outreach for this project. The Town 
Manager suggested that staff and Committee members visit other municipal offices in 
surrounding communities to see their design of their municipal buildings. 
 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
Mr. Sculimbrene stated that the architect was not being properly informed and wasn’t 
communicating with the Town Manager and Facilities Director during the initial design of the 
project. Mr. Sculinbrene stated that there were errors and mistakes in the redesign that could 
have been caught if the Town Manager and staff were more involved in the process. Mr. Blatt 
agreed with Mr. Sculinbrene. Mr. Sculinbrene stated that the Committee never once did a walk-
through of all the municipal buildings. 
 
The Town Manager recommended that the action item to add the Facilities Director to the 
Committee be tabled until she gets confirmation that he can commit to it. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to modify the charge of the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design 
Committee to include a representative from the Architectural Preservation District 
Commission and to modify the quorum to four members.  Seconded by 
Clerk Emkey.  Call 
for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Mr. Lehtinen moved to adjourn the Municipal Building Design Committee meeting. 
Seconded by Mr. Roy. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
 
Annual Select Board Appointments (Continued) 
Kim Muzzy, 659 West Townsend Road, reiterated her interest in the Agricultural Commission. 
She stated that she attended one of their recent meetings. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Kim Muzzy to the Agricultural Commission for term to 
expire June 30, 2026.  Seconded by Clerk Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Mark Muzzy, 659 West Townsend Road, reiterated her interest in the Stormwater Task Force. He 
stated that he watched a recent Stormwater Task Force meeting.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Mark Muzzy to the Stormwater Task Force until the 
end of the project duration.  Seconded by Clerk Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Appointment of Select Board Member to the Master Plan Steering Committee 
 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Member McLeod as the Select Board member to the 
Master Plan Steering Committee.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Call for the vote: Four-
aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Acknowledge the Resignation of Police Officer Jeffrey Hill, effective July 27, 2025 
Acknowledge the Resignation of Conservation Agent Sophie Dorow, effective July 8, 2025 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board. 
 
The Town Manager provided an update regarding the Flat Hill Road Bridge project. She stated 
that Kenefick Corporation and the Town have come to an agreement in substance. She stated that 
Kenefick Corporation has been doing prep work to install an eight-foot by twenty-foot plate over 
the existing pipe culvert at their cost and will reopen the road at no additional cost to the Town. 
The Town Manager stated that work will resume in the Fall, and a substantial completion date of 
December 2025. The Town Manager stated that due to the hot asphalt plants not operating in the 
Winter, the completion date will be May 29, 2026. 
 
The Town Manager stated that Page Street is closed to Flat Hill Road to the Shirley Town line 
from today, July 15, 2025, to August 5, 2025. The Town Manager stated that the road is open to 
residents and deliveries as the Town of Shirley is replacing a culvert on Whitney Road. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the special merit awards nominations are now open until July 24, 
2025. She stated that the merit awards are for SAP employees in the categories of 
communications, efficiency, and pinnacle of excellence. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Town employee summer ice cream social occurred last week, 
during which employees were provided opportunities to comment on topics such as future 
employee events, onboarding, orientation, SAP, and the sick leave bank. The Town Manager 
thanked Cherry Hill for providing pints of ice cream for the event. 
 
The Town Manager asked the Sewer Business Manager for FY25 Sewer Delinquency Rates. She 
stated that there is a total of $107,653.99 owed from FY25. The Town Manager stated that 115 
customers owe more than one quarter, and 53 customers owe all four quarters. 
 
The Town Manager stated that Mr. Blatt provided the Green Communities Committee with a 
variety of funding opportunities. The Town Manager stated that she is meeting with the regional 
coordinator for the Green Communities program and National Grid to discuss two funding 
opportunities that were presented. The Town Manager stated that the first opportunity is the 
Portfolio Prioritization Plan, which is a high-level energy use analysis within the Town and 
School department and results in a list of buildings being prioritized for electrification, complete 
with next steps. She stated that the second opportunity is a Comprehensive Building Assessment, 
where the Town would obtain a detailed evaluation of one building’s energy performance as well 
as systems with recommendations for upgrades. 
 
The Town Manager thanked Clerk Emkey for asking her to remind residents regarding the 
CodeRed emergency notification system.  
 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
The Town Manager stated that $50,000 for the Grant Writer program was included in the FY26 
budget. She stated that she is finalizing an application package to send out to departments, 
boards, committees, and commissions by the end of the week. 
 
The Town Manager stated that at a prior meeting, she reported on fence and structure damage at 
Wallace Park. The Town Manager stated that the actual quote for the replacement work is now 
$30,900.34. She stated that she forwarded the estimate to the Town’s insurance company. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the MART Connect program had been cancelled for FY26. She 
stated that MART has informed the Town that they’re continuing coverage through July at their 
cost. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Ritter Memorial Building roof project is nearly complete. The 
Facilities Director is viewing the project with a drone to establish a final punch list. The Town 
Manager stated that the access control project at Town Hall remains in a holding pattern due to 
component/part availability issues. She stated it will take several weeks for all components to be 
delivered. The Town Manager stated that the Town opened bids for the cleaning of the municipal 
buildings contract. The Town Manager stated that the Town has a temporary cleaning company 
serving the buildings. 
 
The Town Manager stated that open positions include a Dietary Aide position for 9 hours a week, 
a temporary Meal Site worker for 36 hours per week, a 32-hour per week payroll and benefits 
coordinator position that has not yet been advertised. The Town Manager stated that the 
executive assistant to the Select Board/Town Manager position has been advertised for 36 hours 
per week. The Town Manager stated that the Land Use Director position is being finalized and 
will be advertised soon; she is awaiting confirmation from Labor Counsel.  
 
The Town Manager stated that there is a vacancy for the Conservation Commission 
Administrator. The Town Manager stated that the interim Conservation Commission 
Administrator stated that she is willing to continue to serve as the interim until the position has 
been filled. 
 
The Town Manager announced that there were vacancies on the following Boards, Committees, 
and Commissions: Architectural Preservation District Commission (1), Cultural Council (2), 
Green Communities Committee (2 Associates), Historical Commission (1), Personnel Committee 
(5), Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) (1), and Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate). 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
1. Vote to Declare Police Vehicles, DPW Vehicles and Equipment, and PACC Equipment as 
Surplus 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
The Town Manager stated that PACC is seeking to surplus a DVD duplicator with no value, 
Apple Mac computer tower with no value, tri-caster and keyboard, a monitor, PC speakers, two 
Sony camcorders, a telephone, a NetGear router, and two PC towers. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Police Department and the DPW are seeking to surplus a 2004 
Ford F350 that must be towed offsite with an estimated value of $1,000, a 2001 Ford F350 with 
an estimated value of $1,000, a 2008 F350 with an estimated value of $1,000, a 2008 trackless 
MT5T with attachments with an estimated value of $1,000, a GMC pickup truck with an 
estimated value of $500, a GMC cabin chassis with an estimated value of $500. 
 
Member McLeod asked why these items have to be declared as surplus. The Town Manager 
stated that the Board must declare items as surplus to have them disposed of or auctioned off. 
The Town Manager suggested that the Board could adopt a policy to allow items under a certain 
amount not to require a vote by the Board. 
 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to declare the vehicles and PACC equipment as surplus.  
Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discussion on Tri-Board Meeting of the Select Board, Finance Committee, and School 
Committee 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that he thought the most recent Tri-Board meeting went well.  
 
2. Discussion on Sick Leave Bank Policy 
The agenda item was tabled for a future meeting.  
 
3. Tax Investigation Report  
The agenda item was tabled for a future meeting. 
 
4. 56 Carr Ave: Sell or Hold 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board held a site walk of the property yesterday. Chair Nuzzolo 
stated that the property was not especially visible from the right-of-way. Chair Nuzzolo stated 
that the property appears to be forested and is steep. 
 
Clerk Emkey stated that the Town can’t do much with the property, she stated that the property is 
zoned as Residential A. 
 
Member Lehtinen agreed with Clerk Emkey and stated that the property should be put on the tax 
rolls. Member McLeod agreed. 
 
The Town Manager stated that a vote is not necessary until after the judgement enters.  
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Regular Session Minutes April 8, 2025, and June 3, 2025. 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to approve the Minutes of April 8, 2025, and June 3, 2025.  
Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Roll Call Vote: Clerk Emkey-Aye; Member McLeod-
Abstain; Member Lehtinen-aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. The motion passed (3-0-1). 
 
Warrants 
None. 
 
Action Items 
None. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Member McLeod stated that the Planning Board had a brief meeting due to cancelled public 
hearings.  
 
Member Lehtinen stated that the Board of Assessors met on June 11, 2025, and will be meeting 
tomorrow. He stated that the Board of Assessors has one vacancy. He stated that they had 17 
excise tax abatements. He stated that the chapter land applications have been organized, four of 
them have no leans, and one has been sold. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Council on Aging met last Tuesday. Chair Nuzzolo stated that it 
was Lou Franco and Jack Rabbit’s first meeting. He stated that Judy Tarbell and Pete Lincoln 
were thanked as outgoing members of the Council on Aging. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the 
kitchen staff is very limited and is asking for volunteers for the kitchen and back-up drivers for 
the Meals on Wheels program. He stated that there was discussion on a proposal to offer free 
building permits to seniors.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on August 5, 2025, August 19, 
2025, and August 26, 2025 (Tri-Board). 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
None. 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
July 15, 2025 
 
Board Comment 
Member Lehtinen stated that he will not be at the August 5, 2025, Select Board meeting. 
 
Clerk Emkey stated that she was contacted by the group called Artisans of Hickory Hills and was 
sent a letter outlining a successful fundraiser that donated scholarship funds to Lunenburg High 
School 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Clerk Emkey moved to adjourn. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Four-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:52 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday July 21, 2026: 
 
Vice-Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of April 30, 2026. Seconded 
by Clerk McLeod. Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
 
 
 