===PAGE 1===
JOINT MEETING OF THE SELECT BOARD AND  
THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS 
MEETING AGENDA 
Wednesday, November 19, 2025 
6:30 PM 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess 
YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid 
and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to 
aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application. 
You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the 
meeting. 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
REMOTE PARTICIPATION  
 
From a computer, please us e the link below to join the public meeting webinar: Join Zoom Meeting-  
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81152002194  
Meeting ID: 811 5200 2194  
 
From a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 811 5200 2194# If you have not registered with 
Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone 
users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to r equest to 
speak.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes ma y be 
taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up 
for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
I. NEW BUSINESS 
• Joint Meeting with the Board of Assessors to Consider the Appointment of Brian Marple to the Board 
of Assessors 
 
ADJOURN 