===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD 
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 
6:45 PM 
AGENDA 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the 
LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting.  Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the 
Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI 
Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI 
Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application.  You are hereby notified that this AI technology 
may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting.
 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate  in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174- 
0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the  meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Vote s may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought 
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
6:45 PM CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
I. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Motion to Enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) To discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body, and the Chair 
so declares (New England Police Benevolent Association, Local 353) 
 
Motion to Enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(6) To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body, and the Chair so declares.   
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
III. SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS  
7:00 PM  Recognition of FY2025 Special Merit Awardees 
• Communications Award: Kennedy Jackson, Police Executive Assistant 
• Efficiency Award: Marabeth Balboni, Library Collections and Timothy “Eric” Foster, Production Technician 
• Pinnacle of Excellence: Brian Gingras, Building Commissioner 
 
 
 
7:10 PM  Presentation by DPW Director William Bernard on Trash Bag Fees 
• Consider Fee Proposal 
===PAGE 2===
 
IV. PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
• BOARD 
• PUBLIC 
 
V. APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
• Acknowledge the resignation of Ezequiel Ayala, Finance Director/Town Accountant, effective October 25, 2025 
• Acknowledge the resignation of Angela Clement, Recreation Director, effective September 5, 2025 
• Acknowledge the retirement of Lisa Normandin, Administrative Assistant, effective October 30, 2025 
• Acknowledge the retiremetn of Debbie Lafond, Librarian, effective October 11, 2025 
 
VI. TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
VII. NEW BUSINESS 
1. Authorize FY2026-FY2028 Agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and the Montachusett Regional Transit 
Authority (MART) for Council on Aging Services 
2. Ratification of the Collective Bargaining Agreement with New England Police Benevolent Association, Local 
353, FY26-FY28
 
 
VIIII. OLD BUSINESS 
1. Discussion on Warrant Articles to be Sponsored by the Select Board 
2. Recommendations to the Master Plan Steering Committee on Master Plan Update 
3. Discussion on Tri-Board Meeting of the Select Board, Finance Committee, and School Committee 
4. Discussion on Acceptance of Sick Leave Bank Policy 
5. Discussion on Acceptance of Gift Policy 
 
IX. MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
• Review and Approve Minutes of Tri-Board Meeting of July 8, 2025 and Select Board Regular Session Meetings  
of September 3, 2024, October 8, 2024, July 1, 2025, July 15, 2025, and August 5, 2025 
 
X. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
XI. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
•  September 9, 2025, September 23, 2025, September 30, 2025 (Tri-Board Meeting) 
 
XII. PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
• PUBLIC 
• TOWN MANAGER 
• BOARD 
 
XIII. ADJOURN 
 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per speaker except at the 
discretion of the Chairperson 
 