===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
6.3.2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom  
Tuesday, June 3, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk Renee Emkey, and Member Brian Lehtinen  
Members Absent: Vice-Chair Amanda Moore and Member Glenn McLeod 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Board Comment 
Chair Nuzzolo thanked those who participated in the Memorial Day ceremony and highlighted 
the contributions of student Brandon Harris, who sang the national anthem for four consecutive 
years and John Bowen Jr. for placing flags in the cemeteries on veteran graves. He thanked the 
Historical Society for their research efforts on Lunenburg residents who fought in the 
Revolutionary War and acknowledged the Lunenburg Cares Civics Group for organizing a town-
wide cleanup on May 31st. He also strongly condemned a racist incident that occurred at Lake 
Shirley on Memorial Day and expressed the importance of community response in standing 
against hate. 
 
Public Comment 
John Bowen 162 Highland Street urged the Board to exercise prudence in politically sensitive 
matters and requested an ordinance to regulate the placement of flags and religious images on 
town property.  
John Bowen Jr. 162 Highland Street thanked Chair Nuzzolo for his comments and welcomed 
new Board members. 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Friends of the Library will host a Book and Bake Sale on 
Saturday, June 7, with a preview for members on June 6.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
6.3.2025 
PUBLIC HEARINGS AND SCHEDULED MEETINGS 
Meeting with the Lunenburg Democratic Town Committee to Discuss Raising the Pride Flag in 
Town Center 
Marianne Mascari of 54 Chestnut Street appeared before the Board to request that the Progress 
Pride Flag be raised at Town Center on Saturday, June 7th at noon. She spoke in support of the 
request, emphasizing the importance of visibility and inclusion for LGBTQ+ residents.  
The Board expressed support for the request and shared personal reflections in favor of the 
message of inclusivity. 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo that the Town raise the Progress Pride Flag on Saturday, June 7 and 
that it be taken down on June 30, 2025. Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: Three-
aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
APPOINTMENTS AND RATIFICATIONS 
The Board considered several appointments, reappointments, and ratifications, including 
volunteer committee roles and staff positions.  
 
William Lakso was present via Zoom. He stated his interest in rejoining the Historical 
Commission and gave a brief background of his qualifications. Mr. Lakso expressed an interest 
in preserving Lunenburg’s architectural history and had previously served in other community 
preservation roles.  He spoke of his recent work on authoring the book “Whalom Park” with the 
Lunenburg Historical Society. 
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to appoint William Lakso to the Historical Commission for a term to 
expire June 30, 2028. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion 
passed (3-0-0). 
New applicants Brian Vienneau, Kim Muzzi, and Mark Muzzi were interviewed by the Board 
about their interest in serving.  They were asked to meet with the Chairs of the Boards that they 
were interested in and to attend a meeting if possible.  Final appointments are anticipated at the 
Select Board’s June 17, 2025, meeting.  
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to reappoint Jacqueline Chabot and Kira McClellan to the Agricultural 
Commission for terms to expire June 30, 2028. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: 
Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to reappoint Anthony Sculimbrene and William Lloyd to the APDC for 
terms to expire June 30, 2028. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The 
motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Member Lehtinen to reappoint Matthew Snyder to the Green Communities 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
6.3.2025 
Committee for a term to expire June 30, 2028. Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: 
Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to reappoint Alfred Gravelle, Donald Gurney (associate), and Anthony 
Nicastro (associate) to the Zoning Board of Appeals for terms to expire June 30, 2028. Seconded 
by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Member Lehtinen to appoint Jennifer Duffy to the Bylaw Review Committee. 
Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Member Lehtinen to appoint Caesar Nuzzolo to the Bylaw Review Committee. 
Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment requested ratification of staff and other Town Manager 
appointments, excluding the Americans with Disabilities Committee (attached). 
Motion by Member Lehtinen to ratify the Town Manager’s appointments as presented by the 
Town Manager (attached). Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion 
passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Michael Gale as 
Administrative Assistant – Conservation. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: 
Three aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Brionna Bowser as 
Seasonal Lifeguard. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion 
passed (3-0-0). 
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Anthony Senesi as Board 
Clerk/Secretary (Parks Commission). Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-
aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment announced the Police and Fire Memorial Ceremony 
will be held Sunday, June 8 at 9:00 a.m., and Lunenburg High School graduation is Saturday, 
June 7 at 10:00 a.m. She encouraged Select Board members to RSVP and congratulated the Class 
of 2025. 
She reported the Town has successfully transitioned to the cloud-based MUNIS financial system. 
Minor issues were quickly resolved, and implementation of the employee self-service portal will 
follow over the next three months. 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
6.3.2025 
A Tri-Board meeting schedule has been drafted to support FY27 budget planning and explore 
efficiencies. The schedule will run from July through January and include participation from the 
Select Board, Finance Committee, School Committee, and incoming Superintendent Dr. Fortuna. 
The Town received notice that the owners of 222 West Townsend Road intend to sell their 
Chapter 61B recreational land. Town Counsel is reviewing the notice, and relevant boards have 
until June 29 to provide input. 
The Building Commissioner is transitioning Select Board licenses and permits to OpenGov. The 
Board will be asked to decide whether to use DocuSign or auto-generated signatures going 
forward, starting with the Special Event Permit. 
Upcoming trainings include accounting procedures and records retention ahead of the TC Passios 
records cleanout. Nashoba Associated Boards of Health will pause nursing clinics in July and 
August due to staffing and funding issues. 
Recruitment is underway for a Planning Administrative Assistant, a Dietary Aide, and the newly 
created Communications & IT Manager position. Jasmin Farinacci has been contracted as 
Interim Planning Director and will work remotely 20 hours per week. Discussions are ongoing 
about restructuring the Land Use Director position to improve recruitment. 
There were no major project updates. The Flat Hill Road bridge remains in legal dispute, and the 
Town Manager will follow up by email regarding the timing of sewer bills now that the Town is 
fully using MUNIS. 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
Acceptance of cash gifts from the Women's Club and the Friendly Seniors for the 
Lunenburg Adult Activity Center 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to accept $500 from the Friendly Seniors and $400 from the Women’s 
Club for the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: 
Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
Declare 36 Police Department Phones as Surplus 
Motion Member Lehtinen to declare 36 Police Department phones as surplus. Seconded by Clerk 
Emkey. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
Consent to Sublease under Land Lease Agreement between Cellco Partnership, d/b/a 
Verizon Wireless and Town of Lunenburg (Sublessee: New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, or 
one of its affiliates [AT&T] 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to approve the consent to sublease under the land lease agreement 
between Cellco Partnership, d/b/a Verizon Wireless, and the Town of Lunenburg (Sublessee: 
New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, or one of its affiliates [AT&T]). Seconded by Member 
Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
6.3.2025 
OLD BUSINESS 
Discussion and Potential Vote on Budget Task Force for FY26 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to not recharge the Budget Task Force for FY26. Seconded by Member 
Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Member Lehtinen stated that the School Committee met on May 21st and reorganized its 
leadership: Anthony Sculimbrene was elected Chair, Laura Brzozoski Vice Chair, and Mandy 
Gilman Secretary. Ms. Brzozoski was also named to represent the School Committee on the 
Municipal Building Design Committee. The Committee sent a letter to state legislators regarding 
Chapter 70 funding and plans to recognize retirees, review the school handbook, discuss 
facilities, and review operating protocols at its upcoming meeting. Dr. Burnham’s final meeting 
is scheduled for June 18
th. He reported the Board of Assessors met on May 19th and reviewed 13 
abutter requests, 132 real estate exemptions, and 30 motor vehicle abatements for FY26. 
Property inspections began on May 12th, conducted by Vision Appraisal, with postcards sent to 
residents. They also discussed Chapter 61 land classifications, growth estimates, and lien matters 
related to a property on Townsend Harbor Road. Upcoming meetings are scheduled for June 11, 
July 16, and August 13. 
Member Emkey stated that the Stormwater Task Force met recently and is continuing 
discussions on a proposed tiered fee structure for a stormwater utility. The group is awaiting 
feedback from its consultant and hopes to finalize a proposal for presentation to various boards 
during the summer. 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on June 9 for a Goals Workshop 
and again on June 17th for its next regular meeting. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Town Manager  
Town Manager echoed earlier remarks from the Chair condemning a racist incident at Lake 
Shirley on Memorial Day and reaffirmed the Town's commitment to speaking out against hate. 
She noted that she had personally spoken with the family affected. 
 
Public  
Dave Rodgers 82 Highland Street commended the Cemetery Commission for their Memorial 
Day preparations and raised concerns about possible stormwater runoff into Hickory Hills Lake 
from Towns and Harbor Road. He also asked for further information on the restructuring of the 
Land Use Director position, emphasizing the importance of balancing business development with 
regulatory efficiency. He expressed support for refining the span of control in the town’s 
organizational structure. 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
6.3.2025 
Jennifer Duffy 684 Flat Hill Road stated that this year’s Farmers Market will be held monthly 
rather than weekly, beginning June 13th, and continuing on the second Friday of each month 
through September from 4:00-7:00 p.m. on the TC Passios green. 
Dave Passios, of Jefferson, NH, speaking as Vice Chair of the Green Communities Committee, 
highlighted inconsistencies in committee member term expirations listed on the Town website 
and called for a review. He also noted confusion regarding the use of the terms “alternate” and 
“associate” members on various committee pages and requested clarification and consistency 
moving forward. 
Board Comment 
None 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION  
Motion by Chair Nuzzolo to Enter into Executive Session and not re-enter Open Session after 
exiting  Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position 
of the public body, and the Chair so declares (International Brotherhood of Police Officers, Local 
353) Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Roll Call V ote: Lehtinen – Aye, Emkey – Aye,  Nuzzolo– 
Aye. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Motion to adjourn by Member Lehtinen, seconded by Clerk Emkey. Roll Call V ote: Lehtinen – 
Aye, Emkey – Aye,  Nuzzolo– Aye.  Meeting adjourned at 9:36 p.m.  
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Rebecca Johnson 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday July 15, 2025 
Clerk Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes of June 3, 2025.  Seconded by 
Member Lehtinen.  Call for the Vote: Three-aye. One-abstention (McLeod) Motion Passed 
(3-0-1). 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
Updated 5.30.2025 
 Town Manager Appointments FY 2026 
 
Building Commissioner 
MGL c.143, s.3: Appointed by the CAO (Town Manager).  The Building Commissioner shall be 
the administrative chief responsible for administering and enforcing the state building code as 
well as section 13A of chapter 22 (AAB) and the rules and regulations made under the authority 
thereof. 
 
Brian Gingras 
William Hezlitt (Alternate Building Commissioner) 
  
Dam Keeper  
Ronald Wilson- 701 Reservoir Road 
 
Assistant Dam Keeper 
Rich Patry- 655 Reservoir Road 
 
Emergency Management Director/Fire Chief 
Patrick Sullivan 
 
RACES (Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service) 
Conducts one radio test per month with MEMA on the Short Wave Radio at the Public Safety 
Building.   The RACES Control Operator is part of the Town’s Emergency Management System. 
 
RACES Control Officer 
Ralph Swick-133 Townsend Harbor Road 
 
Asst. RACES Officer 
Brian LeBlanc-67 Mulpus Road 
 
Member 
Jeanine Swick-113 Townsend Harbor Road 
 
Hazardous Waste Coordinator 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment 
 
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)- 
Gary Williams 
 
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)- 
Jeremy Pierce 
 
Public Weighers- (provided by P J Keating) (weighs aggregates and asphalt in PJK trucks as 
well as outside vendor trucks on arrival and departure with loads.) 
Dena Brant 
===PAGE 8===
Updated 5.30.2025 
Erin Morin 
Jay Valliere 
Mike Reynolds 
Jen Oliveira 
 
Inspector of Wires (recommended by Building Commissioner)- 
Baron Bowser 
 
Assistant Wiring Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner)- 
Jack Biery 
 
Town Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2026  
 
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Ave.  
Louis Franco-250 Arbor Street  
Mike Kidney-86 Lancaster Ave.  
Chuck Venezia-1402 Mass. Ave.   
William Tyler-5 Graham Street 
George Martin, 522 Burrage Street 
 
Veterans’ Service Officer 
Michelle Durkee 
 
Police Officers/Reserve Police Officers/ Licensing Commission Agents-see list 
Full-time Reserve Officers- see separate list 