===PAGE 1===
This is a privileged and confidential document until the reasons of the Non-Public session   
are no longer relevant. It is not subject to release under FOIA or M.G.L. c. 30A, §22 until so 
voted by the Public Body. 
X     Released in entirety by vote of the Select Board     Date:7/7/26  Initialed:MMR 
□ Released in redacted form by vote of the Select Board Date: Initialed: 
□Not Released (due to exemption) by vote of the Select Board Date: Initialed: 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, June 16, 2026 7:47 pm 
 
Members Present: Chair Renee Emkey, Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen (virtual), and Clerk Glenn 
McLeod 
Members Absent:  
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager and Melissa Richard, Executive 
Assistant to the Select Board and Town Manager 
The Board entered Executive Session at 7:47 p.m. after the Motion to enter into Executive 
Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 § 21 (a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel…or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel 
(Facilities Director, Human Resources Director, Director of Public Works, Lunenburg Council on 
Aging Director, Executive Assistant to the Select Board/Town Manager, and Treasurer/Collector) 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
MINUTES 
Employment Agreements for the Facilities Director, Human Resources Director, Director of 
Public Works, Lunenburg Council on Aging Director, and Executive Assistant to the Select 
Board/Town Manager as authorized under the Salary Administration Plan were discussed.  The 
Town Manager had negotiated the Agreements with the personnel and required approval by the 
Select Board. The Town Manager explained that many of these agreements centered around 
vacation benefit allowances and that many of these employees were hired prior to the changes in 
vacation benefits and prior to the authorization of Employment Agreements that was adopted at 
the November 2024 Special Town Meeting.   
The Town Manager explained that the Treasurer and Collector, Myleen Mallari, originally 
wanted to negotiate a contract but decided to forgo pursuing an agreement at this time.    
An employment agreement for Facilities Director Christopher Ruth providing for a $7,500 
vehicle stipend for using his personal vehicle as opposed to a Town vehicle as well as increasing 
===PAGE 2===
his vacation time to four weeks of vacation was discussed.  The vehicle stipend is equal to the 
stiped received by the Building Commissioner and tax implications were discussed.    
Employment agreements for Human Resources Director, Julie Bellliveau and Council on Aging 
Director, Debra Goodsell to increase their vacation time to four weeks was discussed.    
An Employment agreement for DPW Director, William Bernard, was discussed.  The Town 
Manager stated that competitive and comparable salaries for the position were reviewed.  The 
agreement would adjust him to a Step 8 on the wage scale (Grade 17) with 2.5% increases in 
FY28 and FY29.  The agreement provides for four weeks of vacation, a $1,000 stipend for Tree 
Warden and a $500 clothing allowance. Additionally, the agreement codifies the practice of allow 
Mr. Bernard to drive his municipal vehicle to and from work.  The agreement provides that the 
Town retains the right to suspend this provision if Mr. Bernard is out of work longer than five 
days.  
An amendment to the employment agreement for Executive Assistant to the Town Manager and 
Select Board, Melissa Richard was also discussed to increase her step from a four to a six (Grade 
10) due to the added administrative functions that will be assumed due to the elimination of the 
IT and Communications Manager position.    
All employment contracts mentioned have been shared with Department Heads and Labor 
Counsel.  
Chair Renee Emkey moved to approve the employment agreements as presented for the 
Facilities Director, Human Resources Director, Council on Aging Director, DPW Director, 
and Executive Assistant to the Town Manager and Select Board. Seconded by Clerk Glenn 
McLeod. Roll Call Vote: Member Lehtinen-aye. Member McLeod-aye. Chair Emkey-aye. 
The vote passed (3-0-0). 
Member Brian Lehtinen motioned to adjourn at 8:24 pm. Seconded by Clerk Glenn 
McLeod. Roll Call Vote: Member Lehtinen-aye. Member McLeod-aye. Chair Emkey-aye. 
The vote passed (3-0-0). 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Melissa Richard, 
Minute Clerk 
 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved for release by the Select Board on Tuesday July 7, 
2026:  
===PAGE 3===
Vice-Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of May 19, 2026.  Seconded 
by Clerk McLeod.  Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
 