===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
 
Lunenburg Historical Commission 
 
Meeting Minutes: 
February 15, 2017 
 
Members Present 
: 
Becky Lantry, Lois Lewis, Richard McGrath and Cullen Dwyer.  A guest, Jennifer 
Sanderson, attended the meeting and expressed interest for membership in the Historical 
Commission. 
 
Members Absent : 
None. 
 
Call to Order :  
Meeting called to order at 6:45 p. m. 
 
Minutes Approval: 
Minutes were approved for January 3, 2017. 
 
Correspondence and Communications : 
Becky Lantry has submitted a Historical Commission Report for the town. 
The town manager, Heather Lemieux, provided a proposed explanatory budget for the 
Historical Commission. 
 
Present Business/New Business 
Becky Lantry, as a member of the Building Reuse Committee, reported the Building 
Reuse Committee is moving forward with the potential sale either individually or as a 
group for the Town Hall, the Ritter Building and the Primary School (old high school).   
The Passios School is clearly the most valuable town property with its building and over 
eight acres of land. 
 
There are no definite plans or master plan at this juncture for the sale of these historic 
buildings and relocation of the town offices to the Passios School.  Questions, for 
instance, still continue about the sale process, the value and assessment of these town 
buildings, the effect on the town center, any traffic patterns at the town center and the 
Passios School, consideration of the Village Center District and Architectural 
Preservation District Bylaws application, and plans for the conversion of the Passios 
School to accommodate these offices, parking and pedestrian traffic. 
 
Voted: The Historical Commission will submit its advisory letter to the Board of 
Selectmen and the Building Reuse Committee and to all the town boards, commissions 
and committees that are either directly or are indirectly affected by the sale of these 
historic buildings and relocation of the offices to the Passios School. 
===PAGE 2===
 2
Becky Lantry clarified the Historical Commission plan to offer bronze markers for the 
National Register of Historic Places in the village district center.  Notice of the 
availability of these markers and assistance in placing the marker on the building has 
been offered by the Boy Scouts of America. 
 
 
Richard McGrath reported there have been no new demolition delay requests. 
There have been no changes to the properties under demolition delay at 37 Burrage Street 
or to the barn at 203 West Townsend Road. 
Richard McGrath will take photos before demolition. 
 
Richard McGrath advised in more suitable weather conditions the town cemeteries 
should be toured and a report submitted for the conditions and any needed repairs. 
 
The Lunenburg Ledger Historically Speaking articles are scheduled for: 
 
April  Richard McGrath 
May  Cullen Dwyer 
June  Becky Lantry 
July  Lois Lewis 
 
Adjournment: 
The meeting adjourned at 8:24 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The next monthly meeting will be March 7, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. in the Ritter Building 