===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Historical Commission 
 Rebecca Lantry, Chair Richard McGrath, member    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk    
Jennifer Sanderson, member 
Bill Lakso, member 
Meeting Minutes 
December 4th, 2018, 6:30PM, Ritter Building 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Meeting Opened by Chair Lantry at 6:30 
Demolition Delay Hearing: 
Keith Michon Esq. appeared to represent his client and owner of 4 Townsend Harbor Rd regarding the demolition 
application for the barn on the property.  The barn in question had been inspected by members of the Commission 
and deemed in too poor condition to be worth saving, and the Commission voted unanimously to permit demolition 
without the imposition of delay. 
Review of minutes: 
Minutes for November 6th were not available for this meeting, and so review of them was continued to the next 
meeting. 
Correspondence: 
Mina Corpuz of the Fitchburg Sentinel and Enterprise contacted Lantry regarding the demolition of the old cemetery 
building, and the damaged monuments that had been found around the site.  Bill Tyler of the Cemetery Commission 
was present at the meeting, and commented that he had received this inquiry and responded.  Some old monuments 
that had broken had been removed from the cemetery and moved to the site of the building, and upon demolition, 
more damaged monuments were discovered partly buried.    Other gravestones of concern were duplicates or mis-
printed stones that had been sent to the cemetery accidentally. 
Present business: 
Lantry presented an invoice to the clerk for the bronze plaque she had ordered to mark the location of the Arnold-
Litch cemetery. 
Lantry also announced the voting results from the fall town meeting, and the town’s decision to extend the demoli-
tion delay period to eighteen months.  Discussion followed as to when the law would take effect.  Tanner Cole of the 
Planning Board, posited that the law would be enforceable from the date that the warrant was submitted, which 
would mean that the Battles House on 68 Elm Street would have an extra year of protection. 
Lakso reported continued progress on the K-House project. 
Unfinished/New Business: 
Lantry announced that the Battles House and its barn might possibly be saved by relocation.  Tanner Cole was 
present to explain the condition of the house and barn, and the benefits and difficulties involved in moving them to 
his planned Christmas tree farm on 100 Howard Street.  He said that the barn would be easier to move and of greater 
benefit to him.  He was not sure about the house.  Lakso motioned to release the barn at 68 Elm Street from demoli-
tion delay for the purpose of disassembly, relocation and restoration, as discussed.  The motion carried unanimously. 
Next Metting: Scheduled for January 8th, 2019 
Meeting adjourned: at 8:17 

===PAGE 2===
