===PAGE 1===
Administration and Finance
Advisory on Special Education Stabilization Fund
Section 24 of Chapter 218 of the Acts of 2016 provides for the establishment of a Special Education Stabilization
fund. The law enables municipal and regional districts to establish a reserve fund that can be used in future years
for unanticipated or unbudgeted costs of special education, out of district tuition, transportation and recovery high
school tuition.
Establishing, Funding and Making Payments from the
Stabilization Fund
In order to establish the fund the law requires a majority vote by both the School Committee and local legislative
body. In the case of regional school districts the local legislative body means a majority vote of the legislative
bodies in a majority of the member communities of the district. Once the fund is established, the school committee
may include a separate line item in their annual budget request to appropriate monies into the stabilization fund.
For regions, the amount to be appropriated to the stabilization fund is included in each member municipality's
assessment. The balance in the reserve fund cannot exceed two percent of the annual net school spending of the
school district.
Funds in the reserve fund can only be expended or transferred out after a majority vote of both the School
Committee and Selectmen or City Council or in the case of regional school districts, a majority vote of the boards
of selectmen or city councils of a majority of the member communities of the district.
Other areas districts may choose to consider when establishing the fund are:
Maximum balance in the fund
A limit on the amount that can be expended in a fiscal year
Reporting of Activity in the Stabilization Fund
Annual appropriations into a stabilization fund should not be reported as an expenditure on the End of Year
Financial Report. There is no reporting requirement for increasing the balance in the fund.
Expenditures from the fund should be reported as an additional appropriation of the school committee in the
appropriate function codes on Schedules 1 and 3 of the End of Year Financial Report. Expenditures are made
directly from the stabilization fund so a transfer into the general fund is not required.
Questions about this advisory should be directed to Jay Sullivan, associate commissioner, district & school finance,
at 781-338-6594 or JohnJ.Sullivan@mass.gov ✉.
Last Updated: November 9, 2020
English