===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 300TH ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 9, 2024 Sudolnik Room, Lunenburg Library 7:00 p.m.
Members present: Laura Brzozoski, Dawn Johnson, Debbie Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, Chris Sullivan, Bill Tyler
Members absent: Michelle Belleza, Cathy Clark, Kathy Comeau, Lois Filiau, Tony Sculibrene
The meeting was called to order at 7:04 by Chairman Pete Lincoln. He commented that the Committee was 
meeting two years too early, and that the only thing to do at present was to concentrate on long-range 
projects until 2026.
Kathy Comeau is resigning from the Committee as she is unable to make the time commitments at present, 
but will be available to help.
A motion for passing the minutes was made by Dawn and seconded by Bill and passed unanimously.
One long-term project is Lunenburg signs resembling the Massachusetts Tercentenary signs erected in 
1930. Pete and Debbie spoke with DPW and Police about placement of signs. Bill asked if it would be 
possible for QR codes to be added to the signs for additional information. We will need to decide on 
locations and verbiage for the signs and determine cost. DPW told us the prisoners make most of the signs 
the town uses.
Debbie presented the ﬁrst ever above ground time capsule, which was done by the Town of Braintree, 
Mass. in 1976, and suggested that we do a similar structure on the Lower Common. Braintree, England 
sent an inscribed rock by special boat, and Debbie suggested we could try to get rocks from Lunenburg, 
Vermont, Nova Scotia, Germany.
Local contractors can be on the lookout for a potato-shaped rock for the Luther Burbank memorial for the 
LAAC backyard.
Debbie met with Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini, who expressed interest in furthering the property 
on Northﬁeld Road. He has had experience with the town of Spencer and their 250th. Their biggest sources 
of funding were Town Meeting appropriation, corporate donations, state funding through Representatives 
and Senators, but mostly through sales of memorabilia. They made enough money to give the Town back 
what they they had appropriated them. He also stated that the schools could not make money charging the 
300th for events, but expenses like Police details and janitorial fees would have to be decided between the 
school budget and the 300th budget.
Pete and Debbie met with Facilities Manager Chris Ruth, who has considerable background with ﬁreworks. 
He suggested a location behind Passios where ﬁreworks could be set oﬀ and seen at both the high school 
football ﬁeld and the area where the band concerts are now held. A good display would cost $500/minute.
The bonﬁre remains one of the most-wanted events, but a location has still not been determined.
The premiere event of the year would be the Birthday Celebration 7/28-7/30/2028. Proposed activities are 
ﬁreworks, a carnival, and Olympics.
Other ideas were Main Street feasts, contests for branding, Artisan weekend, ﬂoats.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:14.
The next meeting is Monday, December 9 at 7:00 at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center (Eagle House.) 
Minutes approved unanimously 12/9/24. Submitted by D. Lincoln 
===PAGE 2===
