===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 300TH ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 7/27/26 
MEMBERS PRESENT: Michelle Belleza, Laura Brzozoski, Jeanne Dupre, Lois Filiau, Dawn Johnson, Debbie 
Lincoln, Maura Lizek, Bill Tyler
MEMBERS ABSENT: Paulette Beardmore, Cathy Clark, Chris Sullivan, Renee Emkey, Liaison
GUEST: Nancy Beach
Meeting called to order at 7:02
Committee Comment:
Debbie had Calendar Update - Eleven of Twelve Candidates Conﬁrmed, working on Kathy Herrick. They are 
Kathy Comeau, Marilyn MacMillan, Paulette Beardmore, Dave Rodgers, Steve Schaﬀ, Tim Murphy, Dave 
Berthiaume, Tim Hillman, Elena Christopher, Pete Lincoln, and Karen Kemp. There will be a professional 
photographer.
Debbie had Parade update - Steve Archambault has the parade date and will pas it along to local band 
directors at the next band directors meeting. It was also suggested we have a band competition to draw 
more interest.
Dawn indicated Bill Bernard (DPW) wants a digital copy of the logo
Bill Tyler conﬁrmed we have $20,000 in Town coﬀers
Lois has a donation for $100 from Rich Letarte made out to the Town - will deposit.
Public Comment
Nancy Beach suggested creating 300 lawn size candles of wood to be sold for $75. Smaller ones for the 
birthday cake. Perhaps Monty Tech could help with cutting them, and DG Graphics with logos.
Small candles could be given for birthdays, gifts, etc. and NHS could deliver
Minutes were approved. Dawn motion, Maura second.
NYE Fireworks - Bill going to School Committee meeting on 7/29 to discuss 8 minute show on football ﬁeld
It was suggested to have a laser show rather than ﬁreworks for Birthday weekend.
Bill got word the birthday cake is not in good shape. He and Chris Sullivan will check it out in Lowell. 
Jeanne will see if her facility people will go. Need to ﬁnd a place to work on it. DPW? Barns?
Bill brought pictures of mockup coins from Blackinton and Co. in Attleboro. Is lucite available?
Banners suggested by Cathy Clark - check Minuteman Press, DG Grahpics - place in Center, Whalom, 
Chase Rd, etc. Also bunting for Town Hall.
Friends Group - 501C3
Several names were suggested to begin to assemble a 501C3 Friends group, and we will see who we can 
gather for the next meeting.
Topics for further discussion at the next meeting: Birthday cake and coins.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:16.

===PAGE 2===
