===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
February 9, 2011
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday February 9, 2011 at 7:00
PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 17 Main Street,
Lunenburg, MA.
The petitioner Priestly A. Bisong, 41 Hamilton Street #16, Leominster, MA, Asek-Ojong Enterprise LLC;
d/b/a Best Auto was seeking Special Permit approval for the storage and display of twenty motor vehicles
for sale. The property, which is the subject of this case, is located at 40 Summer Street, Lunenburg, MA
01462. The owners of the property are Kelly Brothers, 40 Summer Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Board Members present: Donald F. Bowen, Chairman, James Besarkarski, Alfred Gravelle, Hans Wentrup
and Sheila Lumi. Present but not voting Paul Doherty and David Blatt.
Others Present:
Michael & Peter Kelly, property owners.
7:00 PM The public hearing was opened and Chairman Donald Bowen introduced the Board members and
explained the hearing procedure to the audience. The petition was read into the public record and the
petitioner Priestly Bisong said he would answer any questions from the Board. No one spoke in favor or
opposition to the petitioner's request.
James Besarkarski asked if the use was going to remain the same. Michael Kelly one of the property
from this location and an abutting location from 1996 to 2008. In 2009 they rented the property to
Valentine Miller and received the proper approvals and permits to sell twenty motor vehicles. Mr.
Valentine closed his business in June of 2010.
Alfred Gravelle asked if the layout of the cars on the lot would remain the same. Mr. Michael Kelley
indicated that Mr. Bisong is seeking the same number of cars (twenty) and the layout would be exactly the
same as Mr. Miller. Mr. Kelly further explained that he made Mr. Bisong aware of the by-laws that govern
used car sales with regard to signage and lighting. Mr. Bowen asked if the hours of operation were going
to change. Mr. Bisong requested the hours of 9:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. Monday through Saturday. Mr.
Kelly said that the automobiles would be late model sticker ready vehicles. Hans Wentrup asked if the plan
submitted was to scale. Mr. Kelly informed the Board that he used the Assessors map to create the parking
layout and the paved area of the parcel is outlined on the plan, they will maintain a twenty foot setback as
required in the Protective (Zoning By-law. Snow will be plowed to the rear non-paved area of the car lot.
Mr. Bisong indicated that there would be no repair work, he would only engage in the cleaning of his cars.
Mr. Bowen, Chairman, outlined the standard conditions for operating an auto sales business. The applicant
had no problem complying with the enumerated conditions.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
Rebowen
3/16/2011
Approved by Chairman of the Board
RECEIVED & FILED
P3129
LUTE IN
2
