===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SURENEURG,
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 5 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
August 24, 2011
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday, August 24, 2011
at 7:00 PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 17
Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.
The petitioner Christopher J. losua, 12 Town Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 was filing as a
person aggrieved by the decision of the Building Official. The applicant was seeking approval to
construct an accessory housing unit on an existing two-family home. The property is located at
12 Town Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462.
Board Members present: Donald F. Bowen, Chairman, Raymond Beal, Alfred Gravelle, Sheila
Lumi, and Paul Doherty. Present and not voting: James Besarkarski.
Others Present:
Christopher losua, property owner.
7:05 PM The public hearing was opened and Chairman Donald Bowen introduced the Board
members and explained the hearing procedure to the audience.
DISCUSSION
Lisa Normandin read the petition into the record. There was no public discussion. Donald
Bowen reviewed the zoning by-law with respect to accessory housing. The by-law defines
accessory housing for a single family home but not a duplex. Mr. Bowen indicated that he
contacted town counsel and counsel reviewed the data and supported the fact that an accessory
unit can be added to a duplex. Raymond Beal reviewed the petition, he felt that the filing was
deficient in that it had no recorded plan of land, a building permit application was not attached
and the plans did not include metes and bounds. He felt that while it was a large parcel of land
that was high and dry it lacked exact dimensions and septic plans in the submission.
Donald Bowen indicated that there was specific criteria for an accessory housing unit, one of the
items indicates that the new duplex unit attached to the accessory unit needs to be owner
occupied. In addition the accessory unit as submitted does not meet the minimum requirement of
twelve hundred square feet. Alfred Gravelle agreed with the comments of the Board however, he
felt the only question in front of the Board was the matter of a person aggrieved by the Building
Inspectors failure to issue a building permit for an accessory housing unit on a duplex. Mr. Iosua
indicated that the accessory unit was not being used at this time and a new septic system is
currently being installed at the property that would support three units.
===PAGE 2===
James Besarkarski agreed that the paperwork filed by the petitioner was deficient and did not
include the well or septic locations.
Alfred Gravelle reiterated the fact that the issue regarding the building plans and locations of well
and septic are all things that are reviewed at the time of the building permit process. The onl
natter before the Board was the issue of an accessory unit on an existing duplex. The Boar
agreed with Mr. Gravelles' assessment and discussed it at length.
MOTION
After due deliberation Paul Doherty made a motion and specifically found that an accessory unit
can be attached to a duplex. Sheila Lumi seconded the motion.
Hearing Adjourned at 8:20 P.M.
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
Mower
Approved by hairman of the Board
1/14/2011
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 15 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2
