===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
UNENBURC
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
September 30, 2014
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday,
September 10, 2014 at 7:00 PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd
Floor Conference Room, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.
The petitioner Gary Archer, 70 Main Street, Ayer, MA 01432 was seeking a special
permit to construct a gasoline service station with convenience store, drive thru and car
wash. He also requested an increase of the sign sizes for the proposed site. The property
is owned by Marcia K. Luoma, personal representative for the estate of Edward Riley and
the property is located at 790 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Board Members present: Donald F. Bowen, Chairman, Hans Wentrup, Alfred
Gravelle, David Blatt, Sheila Lumi and Paul Doherty.
Others Present:
Attorney Robert Cirillo, 73 Sawyer Street, So. Lancaster, MA, Gary Archer, 70 Main
Street, Ayer, MA and many members of the general public were in attendance.
7:00 PM The public hearing was opened and Chairman Donald Bowen introduced the
Board members and explained the hearing procedure to the audience. Alfred Gravelle
read the petition into the public record as well as a petition that was submitted with 71
signatures, all signees were in opposition to the project. Mr. Gravelle summarized several
letters that were submitted to the Board prior to the meeting. The letters were received
from Louise Boyle, 29 Riley Road, Wendy Blatt, 44 Riley Road, George & Lois
Donahue, 71 Riley Road, Mary Ann annacci, 6 Riley Road, Donald Gurney, 37 Riley
Road, Thomas & Ellen McDermott, 12 Riley Road and Margaret Aziz, 54 Riley Road.
The content of the submitted letters were all in opposition to the petition.
Attorney Robert Cirillo served as counsel for the applicant. He summarized the
submitted petition and provided a brief history of the property. The site was a former
liquor store since 1947 and a redemption center was added in the 80's, the property is
zoned commercial and the only request before the Board was for the use as a gas station,
a drive thru and a sign. The convenience store would be allowed as a matter of right and
would conform to the by-law. The proposed building is smaller than what is allowed in
1
===PAGE 2===
the zoning district and they (the Petitioner) did not feel that it would have a detrimental
impact and pointed out several businesses currently in the area, i.e., funeral home, day
care center, church which also have many cars in and out other businesses. The proposed
convenience store/gas station would be significantly smaller than the new Cumberland
Farms that is located in Kings Corner in Leominster. There are 5 proposed gas islands
and the Leominster site has ten.
Attorney Cirillo maintains that the Riley's have tried to sell the property for many years
and the property is deteriorating and currently has no positive impact, they would like to
see a productive use in a properly zoned area, add tax revenue to the Town, provide
income and add a service to the community. The Riley heirs were present at the meeting
and have given the approval for Mr. Archer to come before the Board to seek the special
permit.
Donald Bowen addressed the line of sight issues he observed with regard to exiting the
Stone Farm estates property looking to the left, he thought it was a difficult area to get
out of but partially because of a stone wall erected at the development.
MHF
Engineering conducted the preliminary site plans and their engineer Huseyin Sevincgil
was present to go over the plans. Mr. Sevincgil said that the site currently meets
minimum site requirements with regard to safety and they will meet with the State for
representing Greenman Pedersen, Inc. and said that their firm was preparing the traffic
study, the data has been collected and needs to be finalized. She said the sight distances
are based on speed measurements.
Mr. Bowen pointed out that the Board must satisfy four criteria in order to grant a special
permit and the most important is that it will not have a material adverse effect on land
and buildings in the neighborhood. Alfred Gravelle added that if there is no traffic study
the Board cannot grant a permit. Attorney Cirillo said it will be provided and the Board
can defer granting until that time and the applicants were interested in the public
comments.
David Blatt had several questions regarding the site with regard to the drive thru, the
radius of 12 feet around the building. Mr. Sevincgil said that the site was designed as per
industry standards. Mr. Blatt felt like the pumps were too close to the parking area and
was uncomfortable that customers can enter and exit from two driveways. He also had
concerns with drainage for the proposed car wash and the loading and unloading of
product, gas etc. for the site. Mr. Sevincgil said that the loading of products is typically
done in the morning. The engineer explained that the Planning Board would dictate the
site plan details as well as the Conservation Commission with regard to drainage; they
will conform to the by-law in all areas required.
Attorney Cirillo said that Gary Archer is a local individual living in Ayer, MA. He
currently has been in business for over twenty years and has two facilities one in Littleton
and one in Ayer. He owns the buildings and does not rent and he is active in the business
and takes a lot of pride in the appearance, Mr. Archer wants to be a good neighbor and an
2
===PAGE 3===
asset in the business community. He indicated that the site plan, traffic study and lighting
plan will be done in conjunction with the Planning Board so that no abutters will be
impacted. Several trees in excess of 50 feet high are located between the site and Stone
Farm Condominiums; the site will not have a negative or visual impact. The closet condo
is over 600 feet away. He wants to be compliant with zoning and not a detriment, as the
use is allowed and compatible with current zoning.
Huseyin Sevinegil of MHF engineering gave an overview of the site plan. The business
as proposed is completely in the commercial district surrounded by businesses. It will be
meet DOT guidelines and the firm is meeting with the Conservation Commission next
week. He showed an acrial view of the property and the closest structure is 400 feet
away at 810 Massachusetts Avenue, the building will have a colonial look and be
aesthetically pleasing and comparable to the neighborhood. Paul Doherty asked the
engineer it if would have an emergency generator, Mr. Sevingil indicated that it would
up to the owner. Alfred Gravelle asked if the traffic study was complete.
Attorney
Cirillo indicated that it was not. Mr. Gravelle felt that the gas station would increase
traffic and could not determine if it would be detrimental until the study was received.
Attorney Cirillo said that the study would include convenience/gas peak hours with
regard to trip generation.
Dave Blatt asked what the guard rail and gate system was in the rear of the building and
was told that it would be the air conditioning and HVAC condensers.
Paul Doherty
Wanted to know what the proposed underground 1000 gallon propane tank was for and
was told it would be to heat the building.
Chairman Bowen said that the traffic study was critical in the decision making process
and would be needed by the Planning Board as well for site development. All board
members were in agreement.
Gary Archer of Ayer, MA the applicant approached the Board. He indicated that he has
been involved in the family business for twenty years and it has been a family business
for 48 years. He is involved in the community and cares about the Town and appearance
of his properties. He is a member of the Nashoba Valley Chamber of Commerce and
involved in local sports and church. He wants to be a good neighbor and an asset and is
willing to provide a colonial look and a building that is both energy efficient with proper
lighting. He wants to be a good neighbor and wants the community to come to his store
and earn the their respect. He indicated that the car wash would be a phase two proposal
and is not planning on doing that right away. Alfred Gravelle asked if he proposed a 24/7
facility and he indicated that he was. Mr. Archer said he recently remodeled his Littleton
facility and in both Towns (Ayer & Littleton) he is very approachable and wants to be
both a friend and neighbor.
Chairman Bowen opened the meeting for public comment.
===PAGE 4===
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street said he has been in Town for 42 years and was
curious as to what the plan was for the property located to the left? He said he has known
the Archer family from growing up in nearby Groton and he also praised the Riley family
and said they were a good family of hard workers; however he didn't feel he could
support the endeavor. He doesn't feel that it conforms to the four criteria needed to grant
the Special Permit and doesn't feel that the projet is fitting with the character and
quaintness of the New England quality of life. He felt the biggest issue was the line of
site and not an asset in the best interest of the community.
David King, 40 Riley Road felt the plan does not conform to the area and the other gas
stations don't compare to this proposed area. The Conrad's seafood bar across the street
is only a summertime use and the other local businesses have limited hours and he does
not feel that a gas station/convenience store 24/7 is appropriate.
Robert Ebersole, 94 Main Street has no problem with Mr. Archer or the Riley family; he
feels it will change the character of the Town. He said that even though there will be a
colonial component it's still a gas station in an inappropriate location. He felt the liquor
store had much less traffic than a gas station.
Russell Poirier, 724 Massachusetts Avenue said that he is part of the Riley family and the
previous mixed use (liquor store and home) created no safety concerns. He would like to
see that use at the property again, not a proposed gas/convenience store.
Donald Gurney-37 Riley Road compared the proposal to the Kings Corner complex in
Leominster only larger with a drive thru and car wash. He felt it was not in keeping with
the proposed (Town Meeting 5/2015Village District by-law). He felt that there were
public safety issues, poor sightlines and environmental issues with regard to gray water,
chemicals, salt and gas stills on the aprons of the gas pumps.
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Avenue said that this use cannot be granted as a matter of
right as Attorney Cirillo stated, and that the Zoning Board had discretionary powers.
Chairman Bowen said the use is allowed but the Board must meet the criteria outlined in
the by-law and make a finding. Mr. Alonzo urged the public/audience to attend further
meetings with the ZBA.
Paulette Beardmore-282 Pleasant Street also spoke very highly of the Riley family as she
and her families are longtime Lunenburg residents. She felt that the Bonjour School with
75-80 students, the St. Boniface Church across the street and the funeral home are busy
enough on "Paton's Corner" without adding another business. This curve in the road has
had many accidents as longtime residents can attest to. She fears that with this project
that is being proposed it would put the owners of Hadwen Market in the center of Town
out of business.
Amanda Risch-Fletcher Tilton of Worcester was representing Stone Farm LLC and the
Stone Farm Condominium residents. She stated that they are in opposition to the project.
4
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Risch indicated that she was once a Lunenburg resident and graduated from LS and
has a personal interest as well. Before the Board are three requests car wash, drive thru
and gas station. She stated each use must be addressed with regard to traffic, sound
analysis and lighting plan and currently the reports are lacking. This project will add
more congestion to an already congested area.
Paul Doherty asked if the Stone Farm Condominiums are marketed knowing a
commercial property sits beside the project? Ms., Risch indicated that the other
commercial uses are clearly visible when driving in the area.
Matthew Costich-119 Sunnyhill Road is opposed to the project due to traffic concerns.
Louise Boyle, 29 Riley Road was opposed to the project; she asked if the applicant was
purchasing all of the Riley property, the applicant said that he was purchasing the entire
parcel.
Michael Sauvageau Building official/Zoning Officer was there to answer questions and
explain the zoning in the area. He indicated that the Riley property was spot zoned and
the proposed building is currently in the commercial area (another portion was in the
limited business residential) the property in question held a grandfathered status. When
Mr. Riley passed the property lost the status after two years. He indicated to the audience
that if the ZBA approved the use, car wash, drive thru and gas station then it would go to
the Planning Board for site plan review. He reiterated the fact that property as its stands
today has the right to be before the ZBA for the use as petitioned. Mr. Sauvageau was
neither for nor against the petition.
David Blatt wanted an explanation of the green limited business area outlined on the
plan. Mr. Sauvageau explained the uses allowed in the LBR district.
Chairman Bowen asked if anyone was there to speak in favor of the petition.
Al Luoma and his wife Marcia (Riley) Luoma were the representatives of the Riley
property. He indicated that when his father in law was living he (Edward Riley) sold the
property in the rear for an over 55 development. He said that it took so long to go
through the Planning Board process that Mr. Riley passed away 6 months after the
property sold. Since Mr. Riley's passing the family has been maintaining the property,
plowing, paying taxes for the property for over 7 years. Mr. Luoma had many people
interested in the property but was impressed with Mr. Archer and knew he would be an
asset to the community. He indicated he (Mr. Archer) has spent a significant amount of
money on engineering, traffic and legal fees. Mr. Luoma exclaimed "Why doesn't the
Town buy it"? Mr. Archer is trying to do a good project and they felt it was the best
choice for a location.
David Riley-27 Cross Road is the son of the late Edward Riley. He indicated that he has
been a Lunenburg resident for 67 years and worked at the property for 50 years and also
grew up there. He said that there has never been an accident at that property in all of the
5
===PAGE 6===
years that he resided and worked there. He explained that his Dad could have put a 40B
project on that land but he preferred to take less revenue and do a 55+ community that
would be a beautiful place to live for Lunenburg residents for years to come.
Chairman Bowen outlined a timeline for the ZBA as we only meet twice a month and
wanted the engineers/traffic and lighting satisfied before the next meeting. He reiterated
that the use is allowable but can it must meet the test (four criteria). All present agreed
that they could have the new data submitted one week prior to the next meeting which
would be October 1, 2014.
A meeting for continuance was scheduled for October 8, 2014 at 7:00 P.M.
Hearing Adjourned at 9:35 P.M.
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
sues 12/11/2014
Approved by Chairman of the Board
===PAGE 7===
Petition to Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals
Petition summary and
background
Action petitioned for
This petition is pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg, Zoning Board of Appeals, Notice of Public Hearing regarding the petition
of Gary Archer for the construction and use of the property located at 790 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 for
a gasoline service station and convenience store with a drive thru window as well as a car wash which is on the site plan but
is not mentioned in the notice of public hearing. We, the undersigned, are abutters to this property, and we wish to register
our strong objection to the proposed construction and use at this site. It is our considered opinion that this site does not meet
the standards for granting a special permit, and that it will, in fact, cause substantial detriment to the public good. This site is
not an appropriate location for such a project because it is not compatible with the existing neighborhood with regard to size,
location and architecture. We are concerned that it will have a negative effect on our property values by substantially
changing the present nature of the surrounding neighborhood. Furthermore, this use of that site will create a nuisance or
serious hazard to vehicles or pedestrians. At that location, the only sidewalk is on the same side of the roadway, so
pedestrians would be required to walk across entrance and exit traffic at that site. Additionally, there is a sight line issue with
respect to the close proximity of Riley Road to the proposed entrance and exits because of the curve to the west of Riley
Road along Massachusetts Avenue. Also, even if severe restrictions are imposed, we feel that the proposed use at that site
would be intrusive. There will be excessive noise and light, especially at night when most residents are home. The size,
height, location and lighting of the proposed signage will be conspicuous and visually offensive to the abutting homeowners.
We, the undersigned abutters to the above listed property, urge the Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals to NOT grant a
Special Permit for construction and use of the site at 790 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462.
Printed Name
Signature
Address
58 RILEY ROAD
Many K: Dellosanta Mary K Reeleranta 58 Riley Road
PORTER DICKINSON
Porte 10
Sall, N. Rectu
Anding likene
6т Billy.
-Rd,
69 Riley Rd.
Elaine Falcone
Lois Donahue
Claine Faluene
6T Riley Rd
Lois Donahue
12.
Biley Alr
Comment
Date
9/4/14
9/4/14
8/4/14
7/4/14
74/14
9/5/14
9/5117
Page
l of 6
===PAGE 8===
Printed Name
Signature
Address
Genes Done
Dona hue
I1 AHET R8.
Sally a. Meqee
Sally Q Muqe 51 Riley Rd.
James Megee
Janes Pagea
si Riley Rd.
JaneDuFfy
Juve Doggy
JOAN CHARRON
4g Rites
Rd
50 RiLey
Rd
RiCHARd CHARROn
Richard Casion 50 Riley Rd
Bill Donalyn Denis Donalya Naves
48 Riley KN
Kathleen Flynn
Kathleen Flynn
H6 Riley Road
WENDY BLATI LUAL
ly Blast 444 kuly Ra
Nancy Cieri Mercym
Hi Riley Rd
Lorett logant foreth bager
43 Biley Rl.
Dana a Panet Choral Inquiet
43 Riley Re
Lucienue Praut Lucinna Pull 43 Plan eL
Linda Gurney
43 Riley Rd
Linda Jurney
Donald Gurney Done smi
31 Riley Rd
SUSAN MARCEAN LUSIN AMANDAL 4T RILEY RA
47 RILEY RA
Comment
NO WAY!!
- No-
"No"!!
Bate
55BP44
9-5-131
9/5/14
9/5114
9/5/14
9./5-14
95.14
9-5-14
9/5/14
915/14
965/47
9/5/14
9/5/14
9/5/14
Page 2 Of 6
===PAGE 9===
Printed Name
Signature
Address
DANIeL a WASS
54 Riley Rd
Joyce E Wass
Supree boat
ARTHUR DRENNAN
the bernar
56 Reep Pl
2RILEY RD
DoROTy DRENNAN Deathst Denman 2 RiLEY BD.
RUTH GENDRON
Seth sendion
DANiEL GENdRON Danil Sendon
4 PILEY BE,
Tomas MeDeNnoT
La Wed
6 Riley Rd.
12 Rilep 1L
12 Riley Od
16 Riley Road
JOANEJUDY
44 Baby Old
za Riley Ro
MADGE MECHAN Macy Meekan
22 Rely Rd.
Robert Markham
Arate 25 Riley Roas
SANDRA WEAtle Sanda Weagle 2) Rule, Re
Comment
Date
9/5/19
95.14
9-5-140
9.5.14
9/5/14
9/5/4
915/14
9/5/14
9/5/14
9/5/14
9/5/14
9-5-14
9-514
9/5/14
9/5/14
415/14
Page 3 of 6
===PAGE 10===
Printed Name
Signature
Address
ANN LEVESqUE
Ann Renesque
415 kilky Red
RONAl LiVESZUE
Ron Levergue
45 Riday Rd
Carole / Storo arole Metorro
35 Riey Rd
36 Peles Rd
•.Gretchen th
ten Arth
40 Riley Rt
34 Rile Pl
Ravelall Palmer Kahn
34 Riley Rodel
Loki Jo Calmes Ce
63 Riley Road
63 Retry ad
Alue BArreT Bale Barent 67 Rike Re
LOUISE BOYLE Lapise Bale 29 RILEY RD.
eorge Doyle fear Saule 29 Riley Ra.
fama Hateh lana Hater 31 Riley Ra
Paula Hatch Paula Hatch 31 Riley Rd
CHRIS NIEMI
Chus Steni
it Riley Pa
David Nieui
Paiden 14 Riley Rd.
Comment
Date
9/5/141
9/5/14
9/5/14
915/19
9/5/14
9/514
9/5/14
9/5/2014
9:514
9-6:14
9-614
46/14
2/6/14
9/6/14
9/6/14
Page y of 6
===PAGE 11===
Printed Name
Signature
Address
Marganet M. Aziz Margaret lAzez
54 Riley Road
Deborah Cameron
Neborah Cameron
52 Riley Road
Dorothy Wast Raine, West 38 Rity Rel.
CaroM Shane
JoHN MeStauR fo
in Me
32 Rie PRO
Anne E. Adams
18 Riley Rd
Donald M.Adams
18 Riley Rd.
Susin Wist
Sharm Donahue
3* Riley Re.
35 Riley
Road
Ronald Donahol
35k. len Rood
60 Riley Read
DAVID H. KiNG
40 Riley Read
Comment
Date
9/1/144
9/8/14
9/8/19
9/8/14
9/9/14
9/8/14
9/6/14
9/8X4
9/9/14
9/9/14
9-9-14
9-9-14
Page 50f6
===PAGE 12===
Printed Name
Beverly Guerin
Sonia UBlanc
semlikinc
Encide I Jaya it
Signature
Berly Suin
Smilerstan
acchal
Eudite Agalo
Address
810 massachusetts Are
818 MassAve.
818 Massachusetts AVe.
779 Mass Ave
Comment
Date
9-6-14
9-6-14
9-6-14
9/6/14
Page 6 of 6
===PAGE 13===
Sept. 8, 2014
Town of Lunenburg
Zoning Board of Appeals
9836 8-
960 Mass Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Re: 790 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 - Seeking a Special Permit for the construction
and use of the site for a gasoline service station and convenience store with a drive thru window. This
request includes an increase in signage for this specific zoning district.
I would like to speak in opposition to the above request for a Special Permit. I understanding that the
parcel in question is zoned commercial. My concern is for the safety of the abutters to the proposed
project regarding the increase of traffic entering and exiting the site. There is an existing entrance for a
55 + community which is in close proximity to the proposed project. There is also an existing entrance
for a day care center heading West on a difficult stretch of Mass Avenue.
Some of my other concerns are the noise and lighting issues that will affect the neighborhood on the
North of Mass Avenue as well as the abutter to the East. There is also a church and funeral home on the
North side of Mass Avenue who would also have to contend with these issues.
Even though this parcel is zoned commercial, I don't feel this is the best area for a project of this size
and scope. The look of the neighborhood is residential. I don't feel this is appropriate for the character
of the Town to place this project on this site. There is a Draft - Village District - Town of Lunenburg
with the purpose to encourage development that in itself is compatible and aligns with the character of
the Town.. The proposed project area is in the Draft Working Map. This work being done is with the
Lunenburg Planning Board and Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (attached). There are two
gasoline stations existing on Mass Avenue presently where they are better suited.
I would urge the Zoning Board to consider these issues and Not grant this request for this project.
Thank you for your consideration.
Louise Boyle
29 Riley Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
RECEIVED
SEP - 8 2014
BY: 11h
===PAGE 14===
VILLAGE DISTRICT - TOWN OF LUNENBURG-
DRAFT 12-9-13
I PURPOSE
The Village District has been established: to encourage development that in itself is compatible and aligns
with the character of the Town; to establish a mixed use village style development; to create through
amenities, a sense of community that is essential gathering place, as well as appealing place to live and
work ensuring the vision of Lunenburg as a New England Towin, and further, to provide clear and precise
guidelines as to the building and lot design that will maintain the historic character of the Village District.
2. LOCATION
3. USE REGUALATIONS
(a) Mixed Use
1. Within one structure varying mix of uses shall be permitted either by as of right or by
Special Permit as designated below.
Village or Outlying District, any of the following uses are permitted:
a) Detached otie (1) family building, but not including mobile home or automotive type trailer.
b) An accessory housing unit may be attached to or within a primary dwelling provided the primary
dwelling unit is on a lot of forty thousand (40,000) square feet or more in the Residence A
Districts or eighty thousand (80,000) square feet or more in Residence B Districts or Outlying
Districts and further providing that:
1. The primary building has at leastwelve hundred (1200) square feet of floor area.
2. The entire structure used for dwellings shall not occupy more than fifty (50) percent of the lot
area.
3. There is at least one (1) off street parking space for each bedroom or efficiency apartment in
the converted portion of the structure, which space shall not be provided in the front yard.
4. There is provision for screening by fencing or landscaping of outside storage areas.
5. No accessory unit shall have a floor area of less than five hundred (500) square feet plus one
hundred (100) square feet for each bedroom over one (1).
6. The floor area of the accessory unit(s) shail not be more than thirty (30) percent of the
normally habitable floor area excluding garage, unfinished attic and crawl space and the
normally inhabitable floor area of the principal dwelling unit, after conversion.
Each unit shall be a complete and independent housekeeping unit, containing a bedroom or
bedroom/living room combination, bathroom and kitchen or kitchenette and shall have a
separate entrance.
1
===PAGE 15===
8. The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered except for:
a) stairways and exits required by law, which shall be in the rear of the building,
•b) restoration consistent with the original architecture of the structure.
9. One (1) of the units shall be occupied by the owner of the property.
10. If the second unit is discontinued and integrated into the original structure design, the owner
shall notify the Inspector of Buildings in writing
11.
No permit for accessory housing granted hereunder shall take effect sooner than one (1) year
after occupancy of the primary dwelling, nor until the owner/petitioner records the
authorization in the applicable Registry of Deeds at his own expense.
12. All permits for accessory housing must be secured before any
construction is undertaken.
c) Church or other place of warship, parish house, réctory or convent.
d)
Educational uses on land owned or leased by the Commonwealth or any of its agencies.
subdivisions or bodies politic or by religious sect or denomination, or by a non profit educational
corporation.
e) Recreational or water supply use of a public agency.
1) Public administration building, fire o police station.
g) Public school, library, museum, alt gallery or community building.
h) Private school offering general education courses.
i) Orchard, market garden, nursery, greenhouse or other use of buildings or land for the raising of
agricultural, horticultural, viticulture or floricultural crops.
j)
Use of buildings or land for the raising of poultry, livestock or other farm animals, without
limitation if in an Outlying District, but only as an accessory use, as hereinafter defined, if in a
Residence A or B District; provided, however, that the Board of Appeals may, in addition,
authorize by Special Permit such use as a main or commercial use in a Residence B District (but
not in a Residence A District), subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth for authorizing other
uses permissible by said Board in Residence Districts.
k) Accessory use customarily incidental to a permitted main use on the same lot or a lot adjacent
thereto, including the following:
2
===PAGE 16===
1. The raising or keeping of a small flock of poultry or of saddle horses livestock or other
farm animals for use only by residents of the premises.
2. Tool shed, playhouse, tennis court, boat house or other structure for domestic use;
private garage for motor vehicles, but not including more than one (a) commercial
vehicle used for a commercial enterprise or more than one (1) school bus or farm
vehicles. There shall be no commercial vehicle of more than the Manufacture's Gross
Vehicle Weight Rating of more than thirty-three thousand (33,000) pounds and/or a
Highway tractor and/or a Highway tractor/trailer combination.
3. The use of a room or rooms, in a dwelling or building accessory thereto by a resident
of the premises as an office, studio or workroom for a home occupation, provided that:
(a) Such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the premises for
dwelling purposes,
(b) Not more than two (2) persons other: than residents of the premises are
regularly employed thereon in connection with such use,
(c) No stock in trade is regularly máintained, except for products of the
occupation itself or for goods of materials which are customarily stored, used or
sold incidental to its performance,
(d) From the exterior of thé building so used, there is not visible
any display of goods or products, storage of materials or equipment, regular
parking of commercial vehicles r any other exterior indication that the premises
are being utilized for any purpose other than residential (except for an accessory
sign).
1) Temporary placement of a mobile homé or trailer for temporary use as a dwelling notwithstanding
provisions herein contained to the contrary, provided, however;
1. Such use is necessary to provide housing for occupants of a dwelling house (exclisive of a
summer camp) which has recently been rendered uninhabitable by fire or other disaster,
2. The dwelling was being continuously used as a dwelling at the time of disaster and the Board
of Health has determined after examination that the dwelling house is uninhabitable without
immediate.and substantial repairs.
3. Such temporary use of the premises shall not exceed one (1) year fiom the date of the granting
of the permit, but application for an extension of the time may be made to the Building Official
who shall be governed by the same provisions as in the granting of the original permit, so far as
applicable, provided no extension shall extend such use beyond two (2) years from the originai
granting of such permit.
4. Mobile homes and trailers used as temporary owner living quarters during construction of a
permanent houne shall be permitted orily after the building permit and other required permits for
the permanent structure have been issued, and a temporary permit has been granted by the
Building Official, which temporary permit shall be granted only for a determined length of time
up to, but not more than one (1) year.
Uses Permissible by Special Permit and Design Review Granted by the Planning Board
a) Boarding or lodging house, private guest house, rest home, convalescent or nursing home,
funeral parlor.
b) Private organized camp
c) Hospital, sanitarium, philanthropic or charitable institution (but not including a correction
institution).
3
===PAGE 17===
d) Antique shop or consignment shop in a dwelling or building accessory thereto, provided there
is no exterior display (except for an accessory sign) and the residential character of the
premises is preserved. Retail sales and services, such as antiques, flowers, gifts, arts and
crafts.
e)
Any public use not specifically listed herein or any public utility or communication use
except for Telecommunication and cellular towers which are governed by other provisions of
this Bylaw.
f) Private club, lodge or other non-profit club.
g)
Sales room or stand for the sale of nursery, greenhouse, garden or farm produce (including
articles of home manufacture from such produce), provided that the major portion thereof is
raised on the premises (or made from produce so raised).
h) Any other use similar to the uses hereinbefore listed
in function, general character and effect
on adjacent property.
i) Business or professional offices.
k) j) Triplex housing unit allowing for no faore than thyee living units, may be attached to or within
a primary dwelling provided the primary dwelling unit is on a lot of
Faran
1. The primary building has at least twelve hundred (1200) square feet of floor area.
2. The entire structure used for dyellings shall not occupy more than fifty (50) percent of the lot
3.
There is at least one (l) off street parking space for each bedroom or efficiency apartment in
the converted portion of the structure, which space shall not be provided in the front yard.
4. There is provision for screening by fencing or landscaping of outside storage areas.
5: No accessory unit shall have a floor area of less than five hundred (500) square feet plus one
hundred (100) square feet for each bedroom over one (1).
6. The floor area of the accessory units) shall not be more than thirty (30) percent of the
normally habitable floor area excluding garage, unfinished attic and crawl space and the
normally inhabitable floor area of the principal dwelling unit; after conversion.
7. Each unit shall be a complete and independent housekeeping unit, containing a bedroom or
bedroom/living room combination, bathroom and kitchen or kitchenette and shall have a
separate entrance:
8. The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered except for:
a) stairways and exits required by law, which shall be in the rear of the building,
b) restoration consistent with the original architecture of the structure.
9. One (1) of the units shall be occupied by the owner of the property.
4.
===PAGE 18===
12. It the additional units are discontinued and the structure reverts back to a single family home,
the owner shall notify the Inspector of Buildings in writing.
13.
No special permit for triplex housing granted hereunder shall take effect sooner than one (1)
year after occupancy of the primary dwelling, nor until the owner/petitioner records the
authorization in the applicable Registry of Deeds at his own expense.
12. All permits for triplex housing must be secured before any construction is undertaken.
m) Service shop, for mall appliances, similar in function to toasters, sewing machines, electronic
devices and vacuur cleaners, jewelry or similar items, provided that there will be a maximum
gross floor area of one thousand (1000) square feet for the ground floor (exclusive of basement
areas and up to two thousand (2000) square feet total for structures of two (2) floors).
11) Repair shop, for small appliances, similar in function to toasters, sewing machines, electronic
devices and vacuum cleaners, jewelry or similar items, with a maximum gross floor area of one
thousand (1000) square feet for the ground floor (exclusive of basement areas and up to two
thousand (2000) square feet total for structures of two (2) floors).
o) Bed and Breakfast, Bed and Breakfast Establishtnent, which can include a Function Facility,
Catering Service provided that:
a) The use complies with the definition of Bed and Breakfast, or Bed and Breakfast
Establishment provided the dwelling is owner occupied.
b) The lot conforms to all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Bylaw.
c) Parking for each room available for rent is provided in the side yard behind the setback
line or in the rear yard, but not nearer than ten (10) feet to any property line. One (1)
parking place shall be provided for each bedroom.
d) The outside appearance of the building is not altered except to comply with the
Building Code.
5
===PAGE 19===
p) Inn, an establishment for lodging for temporary occupants, including a Function Facility and
Dining Facilities open to the public, provided that:
a) The lot conforms to all dimensional requirements of this Zoning Bylaw.
b) The Function Facilities and dining Facilities open to the public and Catering Services
on the premises meet the requirements of Section 3 and 4 listed below.
c) The sleeping rooms do not exceed twelve (12) in number.
d) The parking complies with Section 6.1. Off Street parking and Loading Areas of the
Zoning Bylaw and shall be provided in the side yard behind the setback line or in the rear
yard, but no nearer than ten (10) feet to any property line.
c) Dining Facilities shall be limited within the time and hours approved by the Special
Permit.
g) Function Facility, allowed only as an accessory to uses permitted in Sections
4.4.3.6.1. and 4.4.3.6.2., to serve as a facility for meetings and other functions to include
reception, dinners, weddings and business and civic meetings and similar social affairs subject to
all provisions of Sections 4.4.4. and 8.4.5. and further provided that:
a) The building is located on a lot of at least two (2) acres.
b) The original structure plus accessory buildings devoted to the use shall
contain at least three thousand (3000) squafe feet of floor area.
c) Additions to the floor areas, if any, shall not exceed fifty (50) per cent of the existing
floor area and shall conform to the residential architectural style of the existing
residential building.
d) The number of persons attending events shall be determined by the maximum number
allowed by Building Code, the Board of Health Regulations and/or the Sewer
Commission Permit.
e) The number of events in any calendar year shall be determined during the
Development Plan Review process.
f) Anticipated parking shall be provided and parking of over fifty (50) vehicles may
require a traffic policeman at the discretion of the Police Department.
g) Outside lighting or music, if any, shall not extend beyond ten (10) PM and shall be
limited in so far as possible to the property on which the use is located. No lighting shall
be reflected into adjacent abutters' properties. The level of sound shall be no higher than
70 decibels at the property line or beyond.
h) Tents or suitable enclosures to be used in connection with an event shall be iocated
back of the setback line and shall be erected and removed within twenty-four (24) hours
of the beginning and end of the event.
r) Catering Service
a) Kitchen and cooking facilities, allowed only as an accessory to uses permitted in
Sections 4.4.3.6.1. and 4.4.3.6.2. on the premise and off site catering must meet Board of
Health Regulations and/or any other pertinent permitting requirement.
b) Any vehicle identified for business used in connection with making catering deliveries
must be garaged or parked in the rear of the structure.
s) Restaurants excluding drive-through services.
t) Parking areas or garages for the use of employees and customers of, or visitors to, a permitted
use. Refer to Section 6.1 of the Protective Bylaw - Off-Street Parking and Loading Areas for -
specific requirements.
6
===PAGE 20===
"I) Gasoline service stations, excluding non-automotive retail sales, commercial garage or salcs
room with incidental repair services for automobiles, boats, trailers, trucks, machinery, farm
implements and similar equipment, provided that parking, loading and review requirements will
be applied to the principal use and to each non-automotive retail sales usc as separate principal
uses.
v) Medical or dental offices.
W) A working shop of a carpenter, cabinetmaker, electrician, painter, paperhanger, plumber,
printer, sign painter, upholsterer or similar tradesman or artisan; including retail sales of goods
related to the proposed use.
x)Showroom for sale by retail or wholesale of building supplies, including plumbing, heating and
ventilating equipment; and warehouse-mercantile structures, providing that parking requirements
shall be calculated separately for each principal use, e.g., warehouse, storage, retail sales.
y) Veterinary hospital.
z) Any other use similar to the uses hereinbefore listed'in function or general character.
Conditions for Use on a Development Plan for Businéss Use
New construction shall be accompanied by a plan, prepared by an architect, landscape architect,
professional engineer or land surveyor and shall be drawn as listed in 4.4.4.8.a) though b) and shall
include the following.
a) Existing and proposed topography at two (2) foot intervals.
b) Facade elevations of any new construction and or alteration to any building or structure.
Additional Design Standards for the Village District
As well as the standards réquired under Section 8.4 Development Plan Review, these additional
standards are established for the Village District.
a) Building - Location & Facade
1. The Building front shall face the street on which the lot obtains its frontage.
2. If there is more than one building on the site, the siting shail be approved by the Special
Permitting Granting Authority pursuant to the procedures outlined in Section 8.4., and there shall
be sidewalk connections between buildings.
3. Flat roofs that are visible from the street level are prohibited unless an appropriate façade is
included in the design.
4. Roof colors shall be appropriate to the area and consistent through the site except signs
approved under the Development Plan Review.
5. The principal building(s) shall be connected to public water and sewer where readily available
and accessible.
6. Lighting, signage, and architectural style shall be consistent with other uses in the District and
reviewed under the Development Plan Review (DPR). Refer to Section 6.5 of the Protective Bylaw-
Signs- for specific requirements.
7
===PAGE 21===
7. Tho architectural style of the original structure shall not be altored and new construction shall
be of a style consistent with the historical character of the Village District.
8. Existing historical designated buildings shall not be destroyed or demolished to permit new
construction without a permit to do so from the Building Inspector, and further such proposed
activity for demolition has been reviewed by the Historical Commission, Building Inspector,
and the Fire Chief.
b) Parking, Loading, and Interior Streets
1. Parking lots shall be located at the rear of or the side of buildings wherever feasible or
practical except upon a finding of the Planning Board that no reasonable alternative exists, and
the parking can be designated in a manner consistent with the traditional character of the village
center;
2. Parking lot layout shall take into consideration pedestrian circulation.
3. For additional requirements refer to Section 6.1 of the Protective Bylaw - Off-Street Parking and
Loading Areas.
c) Landscaping and Screening
1. The area between the front facade of the building and the street line not devoted to
walkways, drives or parking shall be planted with grass or suitable ground cover with a
minimum of a four (4) foot landscaped area along thé street frontage and along the front and side
of the principal building(s) and plantings of indigénous material along the façade of the
building(s) and between the building(s) if there is more than one büilding on site.
2. Such landscaping does not interfere with sight lines of drivers.
3. Natural features shall be retained wherever feasible.
4. Screening of the site shall be by a four (4) foot landscaped strip at the rear and side lot lines.
5. Additional landscaping and screening/may be required where it is deemed such appropriate
measures are in order.
d) Access
1. New curb cuts on existing ways shall be minimized. To the extent feasible, access to business
shall be provided through one of the following methods:
(a)Through a common driveway serving adjacent lots or premises;
(b)Though an existing side or rear street thus avoiding the principal thoroughfare, or
(c)Through a cul-de-sac or loop road shared by the applicant lots or premises.
e) Streetscape
1. Light fixtures shall be designed to appropriately blend within the District and be of number
and height that grants plentiful lighting. Such lighting shall shine downward as to not affect
adjacent properties.
2. Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building.
3. Outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of size and be consistent with the principal
use(s) of the site.
4. Small trash receptacles and not dumpsters located along the street must be of a size that
provides proper usage and of a unified look with the Village District.
8
===PAGE 22===
5. Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable and practical, and from the
parking areas to building(s)
In addition to the limitations set forth in Section 5.0. of the Bylaw, all uses within a shall be subject to the
following limitations:
a) The gross floor area of all buildings and structures on a lot shall not exceed twenty- five (25)
percent of the total lot area.
b) When possible 25% of the lot area not devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage and display
and other paved or hard-surfaced areas shall be designated for open space.
===PAGE 23===
DRAFT
Draft Working Map
Lunenburg Village District
===PAGE 24===
Legend
* Lunenburg Town Hall
Water
C Potential Village Center District ~ Streams & Rivers
© Half Mile Buffer
-- Intermittent Stream
• Footprints
• Parcel Boundaries
• Lakes, Ponds & Reservoirs
Zoning Districts
Roadways
• Commercial:
~ US & State Routes
Limited Business/Residential
~ Other Roads
Residential A
Residential B
10.
DATA SOURCES: MaseGIS, MassDOT and the MRPC.
DISCLAIMER: The Intormation depicled on this map is for planning
purposes only. All data bro reprosentetional and are not adequate for
boundary definition, regulatory interprefation, or parcel based analysis.
PREPARED BY:
husol! Regional Planning Commiscion
GIS Department, Öctober 2013
1427R Woler Sinect
Fitchburg, IA 01420
Phone: 878-345-7376
E-mail. mrpo@mrpc.org
.0.1
0.2
0.4
Miles
===PAGE 25===
..%
.is
44 Riley Rd.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
September 4, 2014
Town of Lunenburg
Zoning Board of Appeals
Lunenburg, MA
Subject: 790-792 Massachusetts Avenue
Dear Board:
I am writing to voice my objection to the Archer gas station complexeing proposed for the subject
property. In accordance with the ByLaws of Lunenburg, I hope you will make the determination that
this project is incompatible with the neighborhood and district and that you will, therefore, reject the
application,
Neighborhood:
• A commercial gas station complex with continual traffic, exhaust, noise and neon is definitely
not in keeping with the existing primarily residential neighborhood makeup. Even though the
spot zoning in question is commercial; the context is primarily residential which should be the:
impetus for the rejection ne
There was a reference in the by-laws that a project should not have a material adverse affect on
the value of surrounding properties. In my opinion, a direct abutter (and even nearby:
abutters) will suffer an adverse affect of their property values should their residence change
from a rural-ish state roadway to a gas-station-alley turnpike type of road. I expect an
appraisal would easily confirm that.
• There is no need. We already have one large gas station complex about ½ mile west. We have
a shuttered gas station (eyesore) about ½ mile east and yet another complex a few miles away
on the commuter route. Maybe this developer would see fit to resurrect the shuttered gas
station and provide an improvement to the town rather than create an additional eyesore and
drain.
Safety:
• Exiting and entering Riley Road is already problematic: When exiting from Riley Road, the sight
line to the left with the curve on 2A is limited. The speed allowed on 2A is too high for the
curve. The actual speed of vehicular traffic is usually higher than the speed limit. An existing
Pedestrian Caution sign on 2A just to the east of Riley Road does not slow down drivers. The
window of time to safely execute a turn before a vehicle comes speeding around that curve on
the left can be very small. Additional cars exiting and entering from the gas station complex 25
to 50 feet away with two (and later three) driveways will be disastrous. eng
EAGU
5.016.
===PAGE 26===
918/2014
TO: ZBA
From: Homeowner 54 Rily Rans
I steamely sisteet to the
ARCHER PROTECTI
Tatully immppropriate apposite
A Cletholic churts AND FUMBRA!
hOME,
mozart Maziz.
===PAGE 27===
* SONING BOARD OF APPEALS
RITTER MEMORIAL 960 MASS. AVE.
LUNENBURG, MA 01462
6 SEP 14
TO ALL MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF ZBA:
I WISH TO EXPRESS MY CONCERN FOR THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
OF THE EXTENSIVE COMMERCIAL SERVICE STATION IN OUR AREA.
WE HAVE LIVED HERE IN OUR LOVELY TOWN (VILLAGE) FOR TWO
YEARS. WE ALSO KNOW THE AREA BECAUSE OUR SON AND HIS FAMILY
HAVE RESIDED HERE FOR TWETY-FIVE PLUS YEARS.
WE LOVE THIS QUAINT VILLAGE; IF I NEED A LOAF OF BREAD OR SOME
MILK WE HAVE THE CONVENIENCE STORE NEXT TO TOWN HALL. IF I
NEED TO FUEL THE CAR THERE IS A GULF GAS STATION NEARBY.
IF A NEED A COFFEE/DONUT FIX WE HAVE THE DRIVE-THRU ONE STOP
DONUT NEARBY.
I LOVE TELL OUR FRIENDS AND RELATIVES HOW QUAINT OUR VILLAGE
IS WITH WORKING DAIRY FARMS AND APPLE ORCHARDS IN OUR TOWN.
I DO NOT WANT TO TELL PEOPLE COMING TO VISIT US TO LOOK FOR THE
MOBIL GAS STATION/CARWASH AND THEN YOU WILL SEE THE ENTRANCE
TO THE QUAINT/LOVELY 'STONE FARM ESTATES'.
PLEASE DO NOT AUTHORIZE THE PROPOSED COMMERCIAL
DEVLOPMENT.
CONCERNEDEDLY;
He Dir Lois Donatue
GEORGE: & LOIS DONAHUE
71 RILEY ROAD
K:12
?!
===PAGE 28===
MARY ANN JANNACCI
6 Riley Road
Stone Farm Estates
Lunenburg, MA 014612
SEP - S 2014
BY:.
September 6, 2014
Loning Board of Appeals
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Re: Opposition to Petition of G. W. Archer, Inc. Requesting a
Special Permit Regarding its Proposal for a gas station
project to be situated at 790 Massachusetts Avenue
Dear Members, Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals:
As a unit owner at Stone Farm Estates since 2008, it is with great
dismay and apprehension that 1 address the above-entitled
matter.
Relocating from Malden, Massachusetts, my Mother and
decided on the quaint Town of Lunenburg in order to be closer
to my son and his family. The location at Stone Farm Estates
was most appealing to us, the peaceful, picturesque area
bringing much pleasure to my 90 year old Mother and myself.
Since our residence, some changes have occurred; however,
the proposed subject project will be the most egregious
change thus far. The negative implications upon the Stone
Farm Estate homeowners are numerous. First and foremost is
the safety issue. As is the situation now, it is difficult enough to
navigate the Stone Farm Estates entrance/exit. Such an
ambitious project, in a non-conducive location, will certainly
===PAGE 29===
MARY ANN IANNACC
Page 2
exacerbate this safety issue.
Besides the realistic threat to our quiet peace and enjoyment,
the visionary changes will so drastically impact the beautiful
landscape of this Town, and most certainly would be a travesty
to all that is distinctive to the Town of Lunenburg.
I beseech the Members of the Board to most seriously consider
all the negative connotations with regard to the granting of this
request. Therefore, I respectfully implore you to deny the
project in its entirety.
Respectfully submitted,
Marylan Parnacc
Mary Ann lannacci, Individually and on behalf of
Lucy R. Scolastico
•—-
SEP - 8 2014
BY:
===PAGE 30===
Donald G. Gurney
37 Riley Road
Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462-1358
(978) 582-4846
September 6, 2014
Zoning Board of Appeals
Town of Lunenburg
Ritter Memorial Building
:::223080208
970 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
Dear Chairman and Members of
3A13
the Zoning Board of Appeals,
Application of Gary Archer for Special Permit
I am enclosing for inclusion in the minutes of the meeting and public hearing of
the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Lunenburg to be held at Town Hall on
Wednesday, September 10, 2014, a copy of my letter, dated August 29, 2014, to the
Editor of The Lunenburg Ledger, together with the accompanying photographs. This
letter (but not the accompanying photographs) was published in The Lunenburg Ledger
on Friday, September 5, 2014.
I request permission to speak at the September 10, 2014 public hearing to urge
you to deny the application of Mr. Archer for a Special Permit relating to 790
Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts.
Thank you for your attention to the foregoing.
Very truly yours,
Amald As sand
Donald G. Gurney
1330382.1 001098 CORR
===PAGE 31===
Donald Gurney
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Donald Gurney
Friday, August 29, 2014 3:05 PM
'dgink@verizon.net
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting and Public Hearing, Wednesday, September 10, 2014
IMG_2530-c.jpg; IMG_2528-c.jpg
Friday, August 29, 2014
To the Editor of The Lunenburg Ledger,
I am writing to urge my fellow Lunenburg residents and taxpayers to attend the meeting and public hearing to
be held by the Zoning Board of Appeals at Town Hall on Wednesday, September 10, 2014 at 7:00 PM.
The Zoning Board of Appeals will hear a petition of Gary Archer of Ayer for a Special Permit to construct a
gasoline station with five fueling islands and twenty gasoline pumps, a convenience store with a delicatessen and indoor
seating, an ATM and a drive-through window and a carwash.
If granted, the Special Permit would authorize Mr. Archer to construct the gasoline station, convenience store
and carwash on Route 2A (Massachusetts Avenue) in a residential area at the former site of the Riley package store, four
tenths of a mile west of Town Center, across from St. Boniface Catholic Church and the Sawyer-Miller-Masciarelli
Funeral Home and in close proximity to the Bon Jour Daycare Center. The Special Permit would also authorize Mr.
Archer to install a large and nonconforming sign at the site.
The Cumberland Farms gasoline station and convenience store at King's Corner at the intersection of Route 13
and North Street in north Leominster (see the accompanying photographs) has the same number of fueling islands and
gasoline pumps as the complex proposed by Mr. Archer but is located in a clearly commercial area with better ingress to
and egress from both Route 13 and North Street and a traffic light. The proposed Archer's gasoline station, convenience
store and carwash would be significantly larger than the Cumberland Farms gasoline station and convenience store in
order to accommodate the drive-through window and the carwash but would be located in a clearly residential area
with lesser ingress and egress and no traffic light.
1 plan to attend the September 10, 2014 meeting and public hearing of the Zoning Board of Appeals to ask the
Board to deny the petition for the Special Permit. I urge my fellow Lunenburg residents and taxpayers to do likewise.
Donald G. Gurney
37 Riley Road
Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
Telephone: (978) 582-4846
===PAGE 32===
September 6, 2014
Lunenburg ZBA
Greetings:
We are the McDermott's and we reside within Stone Farm Estate at 12 Riley Road. We
would like to take this opportunity to voice our opposition to the Gas Station /Convenience
Store proposed for 790 Massachusetts Avenue.
We strongly echo the concerns of many of our neighbors as to the negative impact this
project would rare on dur continuit at tol lethat abutis proper 0u muratic
arriving and leaving this project, a quality of life impact from evening lighting and excessive
traffic and whether or not this is an appropriate project for this property given the location
and current zoning restrictions.
If we could point out that alteady having a convenient small market in the town center and a
gas station a mile down Mass. Ave. that this project appears to be redundant to community
needs. In addition, the safety concern regarding traffic, we feel, is magnified by the existing
road configuration. Leaving Stone Farm Estates with a left or right tum is currently a
challenge given the sharp turn, immediately before our entrance from the west, and the
speed that vehicles now navigate that tur. Having additional traffic to the east will only
create a greater challenge and potentially be an accident waiting to happen.
We thank you for considering our concerns and, as residents; we appreciate the time and
energy you donate to this area of Town Development.
Sincerely:
Thema Permi
Thomas McDermott
Catsomet
Methinet
