===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ABURG
MASS*
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
May 13, 2015
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday, May 13, 2015 at
7:00 PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 17
Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.
Richard A. Bursch, Trustee, LTN Realty Trust, 308 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA was
seeking a Special Permit for the construction and operation of a "Self Storage Facility" for his
property which is located at 270 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462.
Board Members present: Raymond E, Beal Chairman, Donald F. Bowen, Vice-Chairman, James
Besarkarski, Alfred Gravelle, and Paul Doherty.
Others Present:
Richard A. Bursch, Trustee, LTN Realty Trust, 308 Electric Avenue and
Michelle Harvey.
7:00 PM Chairman Raymond Beal opened the hearing and explained the procedure to the
audience. Lisa Normandin, Board secretary read the application into the public record.
The applicant Richard Bursch was before the Board to change the use of the property at 270
Electric Avenue, currently the property is used to store bark mulch, loam, an outdoor growing
facility, additional parking and there is a cell phone tower located there. He is seeking to amend
the Special Permit to have an indoor storage facility and move the current use and operation to
308 Electric Avenue. Mr. Burch explained the project in detail. The building will be climate
controlled with an office space and the units will be a mix of 10x10 and 10x20 units 10x30 only
accessible from one side of the structure. No access will be available from West Street and the
property will be landscaped on the back boundary facing West Street and large evergreens will be
planted to soften the view of the residential neighborhood. The buildings will be colored as to
enhance their purpose with a flat finish so as not to emit glare and draw unwanted attention. Mr.
Bursch went on to detail explain the style of the building and design which will be state of the art
steel fabricated structures, single story, pitched roofs 10'4-12'7. The facility will be built in
accordance with all federal, state and local building codes. Two buildings will require interior
sprinkler fire sprinkler systems and will have full HVAC, no electricity or spigots will be in the
individual units, it will be used only for passive storage. The facility will be serviced by both
municipal sewer and water. No maintenance will be allowed onsite; cars and boats can be stored
but must be registered. No storage will be allowed out of doors. There will be a dumpster onsite
but locked and out of public view.
He explained where the snow removal areas would be
located.
The facility will be fenced around the perimeter and will have one keypad controlled
entry point on Electric Avenue for the general public. The facility will be open from 7:00 A.M. to
9:00 P.M. daily and keypad access is allowed only during these hours. Access for emergency
services and management will be allowed after hours. There will be a secondary emergency
===PAGE 2===
access for public safety access on West Street. There will be video surveillance both inside and
outside the buildings to observe activity and a twenty-four hour monitored fire alarm system is to
be installed. Donald Bowen asked if there would be fire extinguishers and Mr. Bursch replied
that this will be addressed with the Fire Department during the Development plan review process.
Mr. Bursch indicated that he has already met with the Planning Board and other Town officials
regarding the project and is aware that he must go before the Planning Board for a development
plan review. Mr. Bursch has spoken with Fire department with regard to hydrants and fire safety
and indicated that there was a line of site study conducted by an engineer. The main entrance
will be at the peak of Electric Avenue to provide the best view of traffic traveling in both
directions. He indicated that the buildings will be motion sensor indoors and at the doorways and
lighting will not shine on abutting properties.
Raymond Beal
asked about the size of the access road within the project and Mr. Bursch
indicated that there is sufficient room for a large ladder truck (fire) and or a tractor trailer. Mr.
Bursch feels that the facility will have a very minimal effect on current traffic.
Raymond Beal said it is helpful to understand what is going on with the project but the main
focus of the Zoning Board is to make sure the setback requirements are in place. Alfred Gravelle
indicated that all the proper setbacks are maintained according to the submitted plan.
The Board asked several questions and felt that Mr. Bursch gave a very extensive presentation
and many of the questions were answered.
There was no public comment offered at the meeting.
The vote was delayed until the May 27, 2015@, 8:00 P.M. meeting due to a glitch in the abutter
mailing
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 P.M.
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
2
