===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ARCHERO, MAST
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
June 24, 2015
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday, June 24, 2015
at 7:00 PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 17
Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.
The petitioner Adnan Inayat, dba Premium Motors, 24 Mary Avenue, Leominster, MA 01453
was seeking Special Permit for the storage and display of eight motor vehicles for sale. The
property is owned by Lance Rozell, 15 Burnap Street, Fitchburg, MA 01420 and located at 10
Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462.
Board Members present: Raymond E. Beal, Chairman, Donald F. Bowen James Besarkarski and
Alfred Gravelle.
DISCUSSION
The public hearing was opened and Chairman Raymond Beal introduced the Board members and
explained the hearing procedure to the audience. Mr. Beal explained to the petitioner that there
were only four members in attendance and that the vote must be unanimous to proceed with the
request for Special Permit. Mr. Inayat wanted to move forward with his project and agreed to the
terms. Mr. Beal also informed the applicant that he would be required to go before the Planning
Board for a Development Plan Review and the applicant indicated that he had previously been
advised of this. The petition was read into the public record by Alfred Gravelle. No one was in
the audience to speak in favor or opposition to the petitioner's request. Donald Bowen asked
about the property address, known as 10 Massachusetts Avenue with regard to an existing
business already located there. Mr. Inayat explained that it was two separate buildings, Funstuf
Rentals occupies the building to the left side of the property and the other building is made up
into three separate units, one is used as an antique/country store to the left the middle unit is the
one that he is renting and the end unit to the right is used as a storage area for Funstuf Rentals.
He indicated that the landlord, Mr. Rozell refers to the middle unit as 6 Mass Avenue. For
purposes of this meeting the Board noted the property address as 10 Massachusetts Avenue
according to the Assessors records.
The Board members reviewed the parking layout plan and Alfred Gravelle indicated that the plan
was not to scale, and was concerned about access around the building. Mr. Inayat said that it
there would be an adequate area of at least twenty feet access on the right had side of the building
for access even if there were three cars parked there. Mr. Inayat also indicated that most of his
sales would be by appointment only and that he did a lot of online sales and there would be a
limited flow of traffic from the property. Mr. Inayat deals with specialty used cars, primarily
imports and Japanese vehicles.
1
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Inayat has recently relocated from the Atlanta, GA area and has been selling automobiles for
many years. The Board members had concerns with where the cars would be offloaded. Mr.
Inayat indicated that most automobiles would be driven on the lot and explained that is was more
cost effective that way as he buys from large auctions in New Jersey. If cars were to be trailered
they would be off-loaded at the large medical facility across the street after hours and he would
make sure that was not a problem with the owners there. James Besarkarski asked what the hours
of operation would be and Mr. Inayat requested Monday-Saturday 9:00 a.m. -6:00 P.M. and
Sunday by appointment only.
Alfred Gravelle asked if there would be any additional lighting on the site, Mr. Inayat did not
plan on any as he thought it was adequate. He also said that he has a mechanic lined up to do all
detailing and repair work offsite. The Board members still did not think there was adequate room
for customer parking and Mr. Inayat said that the store keeper next door had no problem with an
occasional customer parking at his storefront. Mr. Inayat reiterated that he will have very limited
traffic at the site.
Alfred Gravelle outlined the standard conditions for operating an auto sales business.
The
applicant had no problem complying with the enumerated conditions.
James Besarkarski made a motion to grant the Special Permit for the sale and display of eight
motor vehicles for sale and subject to the certain conditions and Alfred Gravelle seconded the
motion.
All members voted in favor of approving the project.
Meeting was adjourned @ 8:05 p.m.
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
2
