===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BURG,
MASS*
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
May 27, 2015
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday, May 27, 2015 at
7:00 PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 17
Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.
The petitioners Empire Management Corporation, 171 Great Road, Acton, MA 01720 were
seeking to continue the existing use of automotive sales and service and to add an eight bay.
service garage (120x28) between the two existing dealerships and to pave an existing grave!
vehicle storage/display area located at 739 Chase Road to the south of the North End Mazda
dealership.
The property is located at 739, 747, 757 and 777 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA
01462.
Board Members present: Raymond Beal, Chairman, Alfred Gravelle, James Besarkarski, Paul
Doherty and Hans Wentrup. Donald F. Bowen, Vice Chairman was present but not voting.
Others present: Jim Almonte, Project manager from Waterman Design and Brian Lafferty from
Empire Management.
Chairman Raymond Beal opened the hearing and explained the procedure to the audience. Lisa
Normandin, Board secretary read the application into the public record and a memo submitted by
the Lunenburg Board of Health. Jim Almonte spoke on behalf of the applicant and expanded on
the petition. He indicated on the site plan the proposed eight bay garage that the petitioners are
seeking approval to build located between the two existing dealerships. The applicants are also
seeking approval to pave an area at 739 Chase Road for an additional car display/storage area.
Mr. Almonte indicated that this plan was approved in the spring of 2014 by the Lunenburg
Conservation Commission.
Mr. Almonte said that additional lighting would be added to the
parking area at 739 Chase Road and the new lighting would be dark sky compliant, he added that
the bay doors for the proposed garage would face the rear of the property and would not create
excessive noise in the front portion of the property. Paul Doherty asked Mr. Almonte how the
applicant was going to address the concerns brought up in the Board of Health memo regarding
the increase in sewage flow to the sewage disposal system with regard to the new garage
'construction as well as the Department of Environmental Protection classification of an increased
public water supply. In the memo the Board of Health indicated that the home located at 777
Chase Road must be in full compliance with Title V as it relates to the division of property that is
proposed. Mr. Almonte said that they will work with the local Board of Health and are already
addressing concerns outlined by Department of Environmental Protection. They are fully aware
that the home at 777 Chase must be in full compliance with Title V prior to amalgamating the lot
lines. Alfred Gravelle had concerns with regard to the parking spaces that will be eliminated due
to the garage construction, he was aware that the new paved area would compensate for many of
===PAGE 2===
the lost spaces. Mr. Almonte said that the lot area with regard to the by-law must have at least
243 parking spaces and they currently exceed that with customer, employee and display vehicle
parking on the current plan layout. Hans Wentrup asked how necessary it is to have the paved
area at 739 Chase Road and the increase in lighting. Mr. Wentrup was concerned because an
abutter on Windermere Drive had concern with lighting at a previous hearing. Mr. Almonte said
new LED lighting would replace the outdated lighting and would not project on neighboring
properties. Mr. Brian Lafferty of Empire Management indicated that the storage/display area was
added by a Special Permit granting when they purchased the old bookstore at 739 Chase Road.
The paving of the parcel will improve the existing environmental issue because it is raw soils and
gravel and with a wetland area behind it. They do not want any erosion into the existing wetland.
The paving of the area will help control storm water with a detention basin and some drainage
improvements were created in 2007 when other areas of the property were paved. He indicated
that swales will be put in place as part of the new proposal and this was preapproved by the
Conservation Commission.
Hans Wentrup mentioned that the previous granting indicated that the parcel could not exceed
300 cars and this Special Permit would need to be amended as they are asking for 476 vehicles.
James Besarkarski asked if the applicants have spoken with the Fire Department regarding access
for fire safety reasons. Mr. Lafferty and Mr. Almonte indicated that the proposal must go thought
the development plan review with the Lunenburg Planning Board and the fire department will be
included in that process. Alfred Gravelle asked if the new service garage with the eight bays
would incorporate the Subaru or Mazda dealership. Mr. Lafferty indicated primarily most of the
service bays would be used for the Subaru dealership but the bays have not been given any
special designation yet. Chairman Beal pointed out the zoning map that was distributed to the
board members and the delineation of the commercial and outlying districts. Mr. Almonte was
unclear where the zoning line was
exactly in relationship with his current plan. Mr. Beal
indicated that it would most likely be a question that should be addressed during the development
plan review process and Jim Almonte said that they would update their plan prior to going to the
Planning Board so that the zoning line is delineated. The intent is to remove the existing home at
777 Chase Road from the land occupied by the existing dealership, The Board then reviewed the
conditions that were approved in the previous granting. Hans Wentrup had questions regarding
the number of vehicles on the lot. Chairman Beal indicated that the number did include employee
and customer parking. The Board members agreed that a Development Plan Review was before
the Planning Board and felt comfortable that any outstanding issues would be address with their
Board.John Herrick, 99 Boucher Road an abutter had concerns regarding where the property lines
meet in the corner. Mr. Herrick indicated that old tires and oil tanks that have been discarded
behind the dealership near wetlands and he had concerns with this. Mr. Lafferty said that the
Board of Health, DEP and the Lunenburg Conservation Commission has walked the site at
numerous occasions. They also had their own environmental consultants on the property many
times over the fourteen years that they have owned the property. Mr., Lafferty went on to explain
that there was an issue in a rear corner of the lot that ATV's were riding through on a cart road
and they have since blocked off the area, he does not feel that the items in question are even on
their property. Mr. Herrick alleges that the debris was covered up with loam but has since
resurfaced this spring. The Board members took note of Mr. Herrick's concern and will pass the
information on to both the Lunenburg Conservation Commission and the Planning Board.
Hans Wentrup made a motion to amend the Special Permit requested to continue the automobile
dealership and Paul Doherty seconded the motion subject to several conditions.
All members voted in favor of approving the project.
2
===PAGE 3===
All members voted in favor of approving the project.
Meeting was adjourned
@ 8:05 p.m.
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
3
