===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MINUTES
July 22, 2015
The Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals held a public hearing on Wednesday, July 22, 2015 at
7:00 PM. The hearing was held at the Lunenburg Town Hall, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 17
Main Street, Lunenburg, MA.
The applicants Joshua & Pamela McKenna, 44 Lexington Circle, Leominster, MA were
seeking a Special Permit for Dimensional Variation to create a building lot from a parcel
owned by Mrs. McKenna's parents located on 59 Easterbrook Road. The newly created
parcel would have reduced frontage. The Town by-law does not allow more than two
lots with such reduced frontage to be placed side by side. The newly created lot would
make three in a row on this street.
Board Members present: Chairman Raymond Beal, Donald F. Bowen, Hans Wentrup, Alfred
Gravelle and James Besarkarski
Others Present: Joshua & Pam McKenna (petitioners) and Roger & Kimberly Lucier parents
and owners of the property at 59 Easterbrook Road, Lunenburg.
7:00 PM Chairman Raymond Beal opened the hearing and explained the procedure to the
audience. Lisa Normandin, Board secretary read the application into the public record. There
was also a letter from Mr. & Mrs. Robert Yousey, 71 Easterbrook Road (direct abutters) giving
permission for the McKenna's to utilize their driveway and to create an appropriate property
casement for a shared driveway to their new lot.
The Board of Health, Agent James Garreffi prepared a memo to the Board indicating that he had
no issues with the lot division as long as both lots comply with the Lunenburg well regulations
and SDS regulations and Title V.
Chairman Beal apprised the applicants that they must also go before the Planning Board with
their request and Mrs. McKenna indicated that the plan was on the Planning Board agenda for
July 27, 2015.
Alfred Gravelle asked the applicant questions regarding the driveway placement. Pam
McKenna introduced a larger plan and the Board reviewed the driveway placement, she
indicated to the Board that the new driveway area would actually cross the Yousey
property and branch off to their proposed new home. The area in front of the two
existing driveways is landscaped and they wanted to keep the integrity of the curb appeal
by not creating a third entrance.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 28 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Beal wanted the applicants to be aware that easements would need to be in place for
crossing the neighbor's property as well as existing utility and drainage easement that
must be maintained. He wanted to be sure that they had legal counsel review the deeds
and easements prior to the execution of the property sale.
Jim Besarkarski asked about the existing fire pond easement located on the plan, Mr.
Lucier an abutter was in the audience and explained that there was a fire hydrant located
at the end of the drive in case of a fire emergency; the fire pond is located on the Yousey
property known as 71 Easterbrook Road.
Hans Wentrup had reservations with regard to the integrity of the by-law by creating
three reduced frontage parcels and indicated that he had spoken with the Building
Official about his concerns. He felt that the Board should not open a Pandora's Box by
allowing the Special Permit and going against the by-law requirements.
Raymond Beal felt that each petition before the board is unique and was not concerned.
especially given the fact that the parcel is over twelve acres and will only have two
driveways on the street not three.
Alfred Gravelle agreed that the situation was unique in that the parcel, lot SB is 12.16
acres and is being created from a lot owned by their parents also it will be located over
three hundred feet from the street. He added that only other abutters affected are in favor
of the petitioner's request.
A motion was made by Alfred Gravelle to grant seconded by James Besarkarski. The Board
voted unanimously to approve the Special Permit for dimensional variation with the
aforementioned members present.
Hearing Adjourned at 7:30 P.M.
Minutes submitted by Lisa A. Normandin, Board Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 28 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2
