===PAGE 1===
Minutes approved at 6/10/25 COA Meeting 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                         
Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
 
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:35am 
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Peter Lincoln, Diane Nowd, 
Elena Christopher, Susan O’Sullivan, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Ana Lockwood, Judy 
Tarbell 
Excused: Helen Balcom 
Guests: Caesar Nuzzolo (Lunenburg Select Board Chair – COA Liason), Barbara Coulombe 
(Eagle House Supporters Vice President), Deb Goodsell (COA Director), Jack Rabbitt 
(Board of Assessors) 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln noted that Governor Healey is holding a meeting tonight 
on affordable energy and hoped that all board members had received her email with the 
information on that meeting. 
Ms. Rabbitt noted that In the Meadow Farm will be shearing their Alpaca’s tomorrow from 
9am- noon. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Mr. Lincoln shared that he felt the kiosk should be getting used and 
proposed that we should put three large posters up on each of the three sides. He 
proposed that we do on with information on the LAAC including the hours of operation, 
phone numbers and names of employees. The second poster should have information on 
the COA Board – what they meet for, their members and a link to the you tube to watch 
their meetings. The 3rd poster should have our 5 days of programming and the regular 
events that are unchanging. Mr. Lincoln offered to cover the cost of the posters. 
 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL Discussion on using AI to assist with minutes was discussed. Ms. 
Lincoln asked how we can make sure that meeting agendas and minutes are distributed in 
a timely manner. Ms. Goodsell offered to email out the agenda when it is sent up to Town 
Hall. Amendments were made to the minutes regarding staffing changes, budget for 
programming, and that Mr. Sanderson is 101. Ms. Lockwood moved to accept the 
minutes with the noted amendments. It was seconded by Ms. O’Sullivan. All 
approved, motion was carried.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
1. Recap of Town Meeting: Flooring and Parking Lot Plan were approved. 
2. Tax Advantages for Seniors: Mr. Rabbitt reported that an applicant has not applied 
for a deferral, and that they are continuing to work to fine-tune this process. The 
board thanked him for the work he is doing to assist seniors.  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes approved at 6/10/25 COA Meeting 
 
3. Letter from Matthew Brenner: Mr. Brenner had heard that funding for Meals on 
Wheels was being cut. Ms. Goodsell reported that she isn’t aware of any cuts in 
Lunenburg at this time. 
4. FY 27 Budget: Ms. Goodsell reported that her priorities for the FY 27 Budget are to 
advocate for a new position of Program Coordinator. She would also like to 
advocate for a change in the job description of the Outreach Coordinator and have 
that position become Assistant Director/Outreach Coordinator. Ms. Goodsell has 
spoken with the facilities coordinator about the need for a feasibility study to add a 
Lula Lift to access the second floor and to incorporate that into the Capital Plan. 
5. Nomination of Officers for FY ’26: Mr. Lincoln made a motion to nominate Ms. 
Lincoln and Ms. Rabbitt for another year as Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. 
Susan O’Sullivan seconded the nomination. The slate will be voted at the next COA 
Meeting.  
6. End of year Party: Ms. Lincoln asked if there was interest in doing an End of Year 
Party. There was and Ms. Christopher offered to organize.  
 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Recap of Boston Post Cane/Century Club: Ms. Lincoln reported that the 
celebration was a success and a lot of fun. Mr. Sanderson appeared to enjoy the 
event and his granddaughter gave a wonderful tribute to him.  
2. Financial Reports: none. There will be a report next month. 
3. Senior Advisory Team for Task Force for Healthcare: Ms. Christopher reported 
that she made a list of agencies that have been very helpful as she is caring for her 
aging mother. The board indicated that would like to continue to look at how they 
can provide information and advocacy. 
4. Updates on local hospital services: Mr. Nuzzolo reported there are no new 
updates at this time. Umass is currently working on public outreach. 
5. Update on Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting: Ms. Lincoln reported that they met 
recently but there isn’t another meeting scheduled at this time.  
6. Update on 300th Anniversary Committee: Ms. Lincoln reported there is a desire for 
a bonfire, and that talks are in the works with Mr. Lattanzi about holding it at Hollis 
Tree Farm. 
7. Master Plan – Town Green on Memorial Drive: Ms. Lincoln reported that there is 
an item for discussion on the Master Plan Document which recommends creating 
permanent green space on Memorial Drive. Discussion followed on how this would 
create a hardship for seniors accessing the LAAC as well as would defeat the 
purpose of a Parking Lot Design currently approved on the Capital Plan. Cathy 
Beale made a motion to not be in favor of making Memorial Drive a green space. 
It was seconded by Susan O’Sullivan. All approved, motion was carried. 
8. Lula Lift/Elevator – Space Issues: Ms. Goodsell reported that Chris Ruth will be 
requesting this as part of the Capital Requests in August. We are currently 
struggling with a lack of space for programs and have had to move programs to the 
Library. 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes approved at 6/10/25 COA Meeting 
 
9. Sand for Seniors Program: Ms. Goodsell reported that Town Manager will be 
scheduling a meeting in the future between the COA/Fire Dept/DPW. 
 
DIRECTORS REPORT 
Kitchen Project: Work is completed and is being utilized. This is a very useful space. 
Upcoming Programs and Events: Ms. Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events for the 
remainder of May and into the Summer. Discussion on holding Town Concerts in the 
Pavilion 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Christopher is stepping down as Supporters 
Liason. Ms. Beale offered to take that role. Ms. Coulombe reported that the Supporters 
have a new logo and put together a flyer. They also sent out their annual membership letter 
and are receiving many responses. They are also now taking donations by venmo, which 
people are finding very convenient.  Their next meeting is June 4th at 10:30am at the LAAC. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS none 
 
BOARD COMMENT Ms. O’Sullivan reported that she was out at the Pavillion and noted a 
lack of flowers. She offered to reach out to local nurseries and ask if they would consider 
donating flowers.  
Ms. Beale asked if the LAAC could start taking venmo or credit card payments in liu of 
requiring a cash or check. Ms. Goodsell indicated she would look into the feasibility of that.  
Ms Lincoln noted that the LAAC has been short-staffed due to the Meal Site Manager being 
out on Medical Leave. She commended the staff for stepping up and filling in. 
Ms. Rabbitt asked if we could have a workshop on how to set up and use MyChart. She also 
wanted to draw attention to the Quilt of Valor that was presented to Mr. Sanderson. If there 
are others who might want to receive on there is a nomination form that needs to be filled 
out. 
Ms. Goodsell thanked Ann Penney and volunteers Betty Storms, Odette Harvey, and Joyce 
Boyes who have been very helpful in filling the needs of our Meal Site Program. 
Ms. Lockwood thanked the Eagle  
 
ADJOURNEMENT A motion was made and seconded. It passed unanimously. Meeting 
adjourned at 10:56 am. 
 
 
 
 