===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging
Meeting Minutes
April 14, 2026
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:38 am
Present:  Deb Lincoln, Jane Rabbit t, Diane Nowd, Elena Christopher, Susan O ’Sullivan, 
Jim McGuigan, Ana Lockwood, Lou Franco, Cathy Beale and Jack Rabbit t.
Excused:  Helen Balcolm
Guests:  Deb Goodsell, Director and Barbara Coloumbe, Eagle House Supporters
ANNOUNCEMENTS   none
PUBLIC COMMENT  none
BOARD COMMENT  Ana  Lockwood reminded the viewers that the Town Meeting that 
includes the Override vote will take place on May 2.  She urged everyone to attend.  T he  
meeting will be held at the  High School.
MINUTES APPROVAL  It was moved and seconded to accept the minutes of the March 
meeting. All approved, motion was carried. 
NEW BUSINESS
1. Parking Expansion Concept : Facilities Director, Chris Ruth provided a detailed 
design concept regarding additional parking on the side of the Lunenburg Adult 
Activity Center.  Director Deb Goodsell shared the information provided by Ruth. 
Board was very appreciative to Dillis & Roy for their donation.  Board was very 
receptive to this design.
2. Thinking Ahead: Annual COA Board Elections of Officers : Ms. Lincoln 
reminded  everyone that discussion of the Election of Officers will take place at 
the next meeting.  Jane Rabbitt stated that she will remain on the COA Board but 
will not be seeking re-election as the board ’s Vice Chair.  Chair Deb Lincoln will 
reach out again to Helen Balcolm regarding if she plans on staying on the board.  
Helen has been absent for the past year due to medical conditions.
3. Eagle House Supporters supplementing programming for Lunenburg Seniors : 
Chair Deb Lincoln received an email from a Fitchburg resident inquiring about the
fee structure for Lunenburg and non-Lunenburg residents.  Director Deb Goodsell
explained that the Eagle House Supporters (fundraising group for the LAAC) 
supplements the cost for Lunenburg residents.  Many area centers do the same 
and have in-town and out of town pricing due to limited funding of programs.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Financial Reports : None
2. Personnel Update : Director Deb Goodsell informed the board that interviews 
were taking place in the afternoon for the open Outreach Position and was very 
excited to interview these candidates . If a candidate is chosen, it is likely that they
will  be up and running by June 1.
3. Caregiver Resource Connection:  Cathy Beale met with Director to review a list 
of topics to be presented to Caregivers. Cathy will meet with other members of 
the board to review.  Caregiver Resource Connection meetings are looking to 
===PAGE 2===
start  again in June.  Also, Mrs. Beale thanked the Director for continuing to 
schedule programming that assists Caregivers and their families.
4. Special Town Meeting : Lou Franco stated that he has met with Selectboard 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolilo  and that Article 12 is now Warrant Article 32.  Individuals 
will be able to sign up to have warrant sent to them or they will be able to access 
online or hard copies at various locations throughout the town.
5. Lobby Furnishings : Cathy Beale and Jane Rabbit were happy to inform the 
board that the furniture for the lobby and presentation area has been ordered and
share the covering design with the board.  If all goes well the furniture will be 
delivered in June.
6. 41A  Update : Jack Rabbit made note that the 41A information was not provided 
on the exemption information sheet or on the town website.  He will contact the 
Assessor ’s office to make them aware of this.
7. Feed Back on By -Laws- no discussion held.
8. Meeting Minutes - discussion was held regarding the taking of minutes.  Various 
ideas were presented such as a Tax Work Off participant and/or sharing with 
another board.  No members volunteered to take the position of clerk for the 
board.  
9. Honorary Membership - Motion was made and seconded to make Peter Lincoln 
an Honorary Member.  Motion passed unanimously.  This designation would give 
him all the same privileges as  a member without voting rights.
DIRECTORS REPORT
Upcoming Programs and Events : Director Deb Goodsell listed the upcoming programs,
and an April and May newsletter were in the Board packets.
Telehealth  Update : No update at this time.  Waiting to verify that the town has received 
the grant funding.
Kitchen Project:  Work is progressing with a completion date anticipated to be within the 
next month.
Building and Grounds:  Window shades are anticipated in the near future.
UPCOMING EVENTS : Mrs . Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events for the remainder 
of February and for March.
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT : M rs. Coulombe reported that there are two 
upcoming trips, The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum trip that is full and the LaBelle 
Winery trip which still has a handful of seats left. 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS  none
BOARD COMMENT  none
ADJOURNEMENT A motion was made and seconded. It passed unanimously. Meeting 
adjourned at 1 1:27  am .