===PAGE 1===
Park Commission June 26, 2019 Meeting Minutes Page  of 21
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission  
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Susanna Jewell, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
John Palumbo                              Lunenburg, MA 01462        
  
MEETING MINUTES 
June 26, 2019 
6pm 
DPW 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 
1. Karin called meeting to order at 6:02pm Attendance: Karin Menard, Susanna Jewell, John Palumbo 
2. John motioned and Susanna seconded to approve May 2019 minutes. Approved 3-0. 
3. Town Manager / DPW Director Updates - no updates  
4. 2019 Beach Season - updates, pass sales, technology, general policy 
 Susanna mentioned that she has heard some complaints regarding the process for online passes and the 
additional technology fee and credit card fee. Karin said the technology fee is added by the town and not 
something that Parks can wave. Karin said that we could certainly explore other platforms for the 2020 season. 
Karin also mentioned that there were some applicants that registered over 2 adults and we need to figure out 
how to deal with that next year. John said he agreed that we should tighten things up for the next season. Karin 
said that she has stopped in at the beach a few times to check on how things were going with passes. She said 
she felt like this should be a simple process - show receipt and receive your beach pass - but that the Beach 
Coordinator said that it isn’t. Karin said said she was unsure if it was how they executed it but that we could 
work with the new Park Director to ensure it is smoother next year. She also mentioned that there was a hold up, 
unrelated to Parks, in obtaining the technology for the beach but was told by IT that was on order and would 
delivered as soon as it comes in. Karin said that just over 100 passes had been sold so far and only 12 or so were  
paid in person. The rest were paid online via cash or check. 
 Karin asked the group if there was anything additional they thought was needed at the beach as the DPW 
director has a little money that could be spent before the end of the fiscal year. John recommended lifeguard 
chairs. Karin and Susanna thought that was a good idea. Karin will send an email to Jack. 
5. Public / Board Comment - Karin said that the DPW director had received emails from residents in the 
Whalom area requesting change to the courts as they are concerned with behavior, trash, etc. Their ideas were  

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission June 26, 2019 Meeting Minutes Page  of 22
to eliminate at least one of the courts and put in kid friendly activities in its place (four square, hop scotch, 
skate ramp). Karin said she would hate to see both courts removed but would entertain the idea of a multi use 
court in place of one of them. Susanna and John were also in favor of keeping at least one court. Susanna 
wondered if we could look into removable tennis net for one side. John thought we could look into a fence 
down the middle so that when the adults were playing basketball the kids could be on the other. Susanna 
thought a fence might limit the use for bigger events like the Earth Day event that was held there last year. 
Dave Passios made a public comment that if changes were made to the court that it would feed into the 
complaint he has had for years that we would continue to cater to organized sports and kids and this would 
take away from general use. Karin said that she was unsure how the lining of the court gets done and that she 
would like the commission to clarify with Town Manager if a change to these courts could even be made 
since it was an appropriation made at Town Meeting as part of the Capital Plan. She said she would put 
Wallis onto an upcoming agenda. Karin also mentioned that she and another community member had cleaned 
the snack shack at Wallis Park and would be requesting an inspection from the Nashoba Board of Health. 
Once that is complete Chris Letarte will be able to open it to sell prepackaged foods. 
6.Karin motioned and Susanna seconded to recess and move to Marshall Park - 835 Massachusetts Ave at 7pm.  
7.Reconvened at Marshall Park @ 7:10pm. With the help of Dave Passios the group checked out the Basketball 
Court, Exercise Stations, old cinder track, playground, out of commission bath house, 90’ diamond, softball 
field, small baseball field, and t-ball field.  
8.Karin motioned and John seconded to adjourn at 8:10pm. Approved 3-0. 