===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes August 14, 2019 Page 1 of 2
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission  
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Susanna Jewell, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
John Palumbo                              Lunenburg, MA 01462        
  
MEETING MINUTES 
August 14, 2019 
5pm 
DPW 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 
1. Karin called the meeting to order at 5pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Susanna Jewell, John Palumbo and 
DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz 
2. Karin advised the commission that the minutes were not ready and would bring to the next meeting. 
3. Town Manager / DPW Director Updates - Jack quickly updated the commission that the summer activities 
were starting to close down for the season. He said the Town Beach would be closing the weekend before 
school started and he said on his drive by there didn’t seem to be many people in attendance in the late 
afternoon. He also said he had asked but had not received an answer on how many life guards were needed. 
4. Recreation Director - Jack updated the commission that the had received 3 applicants and would like to see a 
few more applicants. Karin asked what the next step was. Jack said he would start by meeting with qualified 
candidates, narrow them down and bring the top 2-3 candidates to the commission. It would then go to Town 
Manager with her ultimate recommendation going to the Board of Selectman. The commission discussed 
dates and decided that Jack would meet with applicants September 3-13 and bring them to the Commission 
on September 18th. Susanna said she would forward the applications that she received from Jack. 
5. Marshall Park - Karin gave a brief overview of the property at Marshall Park and opened a round table 
discussion. Participants included the Park Commission and DPW Director as well as Ana Lockwood, 
Matthew Allison, Dave Passios, David Prokowiew, and Deb Christin.  
1. Picnic area near pond which would be in walking distance to the Senior Center, Schools and Town 
Center. 
2. Walking trails through property connecting all areas. 
3. Rehab of the Exercise Circuit which was originally a Eagle Scout project. Dave Passios said there 
are a few boys working towards becoming an Eagle Scout that may have interest in working on 
resurrecting this circuit and will have them reach out to the commission.  

===PAGE 2===
4.Ice Skating at the pond - Ana Lockwood said that there are still a few that use the pond for skating 
but not as many as there used to be and the school PE classes no longer use it. Deb Christin said that 
when the lights were on the ice was safe for skating.  
5.Board Walk Style connection to Main Street - Matt Allison mentioned that years ago he had put 
together a plan to connect Marshall Park to the Town Center. He mentioned there would need to be 
some details worked out as he is unsure if Marshall Park abuts any town land close to the center or if 
permission would have to be sought to cross over private property.  Dave Prokowiew though that 
might be better addressed addressed in a later phase once final decisions are made about what the 
Town will do with the Town Center and the moving of offices. Dave also mentioned that connecting 
Marhsall Park via Highland with sidewalks should be considered.  
6.Jack mentioned that Parking still needs to be addressed. He said that the paving around the 90’ 
diamond did help with the way people were parking but with playoff games that bring a larger crowd 
folks can still block the roadway.  
7.Cinder Track - it was unanimous in opinion that the walking track be brought back into usable 
condition. Susann mentioned the possibility of moving the fence in the outfield of the 90’ diamond  
so that the track would be outside of the game area.  
8.Fields - Karin mentioned that the numbers of baseball players seems to be dwindling and wondered 
if it was time to consider a change of use for the 90’ diamond to a rectangular field. Susanna thought 
even open green space in that area would benefit the residents. The majority agreed but thought more 
research should be done. 
9.Bathhouse - Jack gave a brief history and said the bathhouse really should be taken down. Dave 
Passios mentioned that the Board of Health may be able to assist with some sort of grant to bring a 
new bathhouse to the property. 
6.Other business 
a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none  
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment  - Public comment from Dave 
Passios that he had attended the meet and greet with Senator Tran at Lanni Orchard’s prior to the Parks 
meeting and spoke with Christy Mylotte who said she was wiling to come to a future meeting to explain 
the process of getting money earmarked or grants for Parks projects.  Matt Allison also made a public 
comment that Maki’s graciously donated a picnic table for use at the Farmers Market and it may be 
worthwhile to contact them about tables for Marshall. 
7. Next meeting date - September 18, 2019 6pm. 
8. Meeting adjourned at 6:58pm 
Park Commission Meeting Minutes August 14, 2019 Page  2 of 2