===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes November 20, 2019 Page 1 of 3
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission  
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Susanna Jewell, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
John Palumbo                              Lunenburg, MA 01462        
  
MEETING MINUTES 
November 20, 2019 
DPW 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 
1. Karin called the meeting to order at 6:30pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, John Palumbo, Kayla Wright 
(Recreation Director), Jack Rodriquenz (DPW Director). Absent: Susanna Jewell. 
2. Karin advised that the October minutes were not complete and she would have them ready for the next 
meeting.  
3. Recreation Director / DPW Director Updates - Jack said he is working on the fence replacement at Wallis 
Park.  
4. . Lunenburg Skate Park updates and discussion - Karin explained that she put this topic on the agenda after 
seeing some of the recent advertisements by the 01462 Skate Park group. She said that the Park Commission 
voted to support a 5k square foot skate park and that the advertisement was for 10k square feet. Anthony 
Caiozzo and Phil Moore were both present on behalf of 01462 Skate Park group. Anthony said that we 
shouldn’t be concerned be concerned with the size but what we want to get out of the park. He also said that he 
had wanted to meet with Kayla to see what we wanted to get out of the skate park and what the vision of the use 
would be and to see what she has seen in other towns. Anthony said that it would be an opportunity to make it a 
part of the suite of services that the town offers for camps and activities. Karin explained that there is no current 
discussion on what we want to get out of it as it is not a Park Commission sponsored project at this point and 
that we remained concerned with may pieces of the project including the long term maintenance and the size. 
Jack said that he has no vote in this but that he didn’t believe the Park Commission would support a 10,000 
square foot park. Anthony said that the square footage shouldn’t matter. Jack explained that it does matter and 
felt it is a project being pushed onto the Park Commission that they didn’t necessarily want to take on and he 
wants the group to be clear on where the Park Commission stands. Phil said that when completed the park 
would become a piece of the landscape and an opportunity for the town. He said similar to other facilities in 
town, like the beach, you make a plan for the facility and use it to its max potential. Karin said that when this 
project was originally presented it was still in the idea phase and the the next thing the Park Commission knew  

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes November 20, 2019 Page 2 of 3 
it was presented to the Board of Selectman as something that Park Commission was in favor of and the Board of 
Selectman gave permission to use a piece of land that is not even owned by the Park Commission. She said that 
she felt the Park Commission still does not have a good idea of what the long term cost of maintaining a facility 
like this was and that was a concern to her as funds are not endless and that she didn’t feel anyone had taken 
that into consideration. Phil said the longevity of the skate park is important and that holding camps and lessons 
would yield some revenue to defray those long term costs. Karin said that if the skate park does end up coming 
under the Park Commission we would certainly have programing and use it to its full potential but that she 
wanted to be perfectly clear that the Park Commission voted in January of 2019 to support a 5,000 square foot 
skate park and that the commission still has concerns. John added that he was primarily concerned about safety 
especially at night since it wouldn’t be lighted. Anthony said hours are set and the park would be closed at night 
and that these types of facilities don’t have fences put around them and are not locked. John asked when the 
students first approached the commission with the idea. Karin said it was February of 2018 and that it was an 
idea that still needed lots of details worked out and without us knowing they went in front of the BOS a few 
months later saying we were in support of the project and no one from the BOS ever asked us directly if we 
supported the project and the potential location. . John asked if this location was a done deal. Jack said not 
necessarily and said there are some people that don’t want a skate park in the center of town. John said that he 
feels that the space  is gold and we need to think long and hard about it being in the town center and we should 
consider pumping the breaks especially since all of our concerns haven’t been answered. Karin said that since 
the BOS would be the ones to give the go ahead to start the building process that she would talk with the BOS 
Chair.  
Dave Passios made a public comment that he agreed with the commission and said we may want to considering 
working it into the repurposing of Marshall Park.  
5. 2020 Beach Season - Karin said that last years beach hiring was done late and that she had spoken to Kayla 
about starting the process earlier. Kayla said in the past when she has hired summer staff she would do 
advertising while the college kids were home on winter break with an application deadline of Mid February. She 
said that interviewing and hiring could be done in mid to late March which would coincide with any college 
kids looking for employment being home from on spring break. She said that there are several places it could be 
included such as the Mass Park and Rec website. Karin and John both thought that was a solid plan. Jack 
recommended that Kayla work with Julie in HR to get it done. 
Karin asked if we could reopen to hire a second round of life guards after life guard training since that training 
doesn’t happen until late June, Kayla said that yes, she could work on doing that. John recommended looking 
into posting on School Spring.  
Jack mentioned that FSU has a pool and that he it may be an idea if we wanted to try and do an earlier training. 
Kayla said that another town she worked for did a pool based training and then a one day open water front 
training so its something we could look in to.  
6. Capital Plan - Jack updated the group that the Capital Planning process has started and that he would be 
making a presentation to the Capital Planning Committee. He asked if we wanted to submit any requests. John  
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes November 20, 2019 Page 3 of 3 
thought a submitting something for a study of Marshall Park would be good. Karin agreed but wondered if we’d 
have the numbers for this year. Jack said he would work with Kayla and see what he could come up with. 
7. Finance updates - Kayla said she didn’t have an opportunity to get the financials. Karin said that was fine as 
we were tight on time anyway. 
8. Other business 
a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment - none
9. Next meeting date - January 13, 2020.
10. John motioned and Karin seconded to adjourn at 8:15pm.