===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes July 16, 2019 page 1 of 2
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission  
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Susanna Jewell, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
John Palumbo                              Lunenburg, MA 01462        
  
MEETING AGENDA 
July 16, 2019 
6pm 
DPW 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 
1. Karin called the meeting to order at 6:01pm. Attendance - Karin Menard, Susanna Jewell, John Palumbo 
(arrived at 6:10pm) and Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director. 
2. Karin motioned and Susanna seconded to approve the June 2019 minutes - approved 2-0 
3. Town Manager / DPW Director Updates - Jack updated the commission that the Nashoba Board of Health 
had inspected the snack shack at Wallis Park and had given the green light to sell prepackaged snacks. Jack 
also mentioned that he continues to battle the trash left behind by court users at Wallis Park. He said that 
there continues to be concerning issues at the beach and that he has been unsuccessful at getting the beach 
coordinator to come in for a meeting. He said that he and Karin sat down with the Beach Director prior to the 
beach opening and he thought everyone was on the same page but for some reason, unbeknownst to Karin or 
himself, the results of that discussion were not executed on the beach side. Jack added that a new carpet was 
installed in the beach house and that new buoy lines were installed this year as well as Life Guard chairs. He 
also said that the MRPC was dong a walk ability study and anyone interested in participating in the walk 
could meet at the lake front on July 25th.  
4. Park Director - The commission read through the job description and flagged two areas and asked that those 
areas of concerns be brought back to the town manager to rewrite.  
  
5. Town Beach- Karin gave a brief update on pass sales and said despite a few complaints they seemed to be 
going as expected. She also said that IT had set up the chromebook and tablet but as far as she knew, and for 
reasons she didn’t know, they were not being used. Karin then opened a round table discussion with the 
members of the public in attendance. Lynn Major (beach employee, school employee, non resident) said she 
has been employed at the Town Beach for over 30 years and believes its an asset to the town and that real 
estate listings have started showing the distance from the beach in their advertisements.  She said the beach is 
a great service teaching kids to swim and life guard. She said that this season is the first season she has seen 
an infusion of money in quite a long time. She said she thought one of the reasons that the life guard chairs 

===PAGE 2===
were not being used was because of the toddlers and little kids who were playing close to the edge of the 
water. Michelle Bellessa said that signing up online was not a user friendly process and she wasn’t sure of all 
the steps and it took a long time to fill out. Cheryl Shaw mentioned that it occasionally auto populate the 
wrong address. Karin told the group that there was a step by step instruction sheet online but would note all 
of their concerns in hopes of making the process better for next year. Michelle was also concerned about the 
definition of “family”. Karin gave a brief background explaining that in years past people were registering 
babysitters, grandparents, cousins etc., under one pass and changes were made this year to start reining in 
these types of things. Melony Letarte thought if we were defining the family as two adults then it shouldn’t 
matter if the live in the same residence or not. Jack praised the Park Commission for addressing issues that 
have been overlooked for a decade and that  things had been a little helter skelter but we all did best we could 
do and overall it is a step in the right direction. Susanna said she was initially taken aback that people thought 
it was intended to be excluding language when that was not the intention. Melony added that as far as she 
was concerned, forcing people to purchases passes online and then having a technology fee seems unfair and 
that there should be a different way. She also recommended the Park Commission look into using Unipay 
next year. Karin emplaned that the technology fee is not something that the Park Commission controls and it 
was decided on by the Board of Selectman and since the Park Commission was using their platform their 
rules applied but that we were always open to new ideas to make things easier for the residents. Cheryl Shaw 
and Lynn Major also both expressed concern about the later than normal hiring for this past season. Karin 
said she would speak with Nancy Forest to see how early a season job posting could be made. Susanna 
suggested we should be looking to hire in March for the 2020 season. 
6.Marshall Park revitalization - due to time constraints it was decided to hold this discussion for the next 
meeting. 
7.Wallis Park - Karin gave a brief history of the resurfacing. Jack said the mistake of the fence coming down 
early was his and that he has not arranged for the resurfacing because there was some rumblings from 
residents in that area with requests to change the court set up and he didn’t want to spend the time and money 
to resurface only to have the commission change the use. Karin explained that the commission had received 2 
complaints about behavior at the courts, especially after dark. Melony Letarte said that years ago that area 
was one basketball court and one tennis court. The current ideas from residents are to decrease the courts to 
either 1 full court or 1 half court. Karin said she was hesitant to consider just a half a court as Wallis is a 
popular and well used area. She also said that public parks inherently come with issues and trying to correct 
issues that have been allowed to happen for a long time can be difficult but not impossible.  Mike Young said 
that the majority of folks using the courts weren’t respecting the space and felt the town was deaf to their 
complaints. Dan Hager said he has a young son and would love to see him be able to grow up at the park and 
thinks at least one of the courts should be removed. Chris Letarte said that he pulled a page and a half of 
complaint calls at the police station since April 2018 and that he would like to see at least one of the courts 
change to a tennis court. John Palumbo asked Chris if he thought people would really be interested in playing 
tennis there and he though they would be. Lynn Major asked if there were any plans for summer basketball 
there again and Karin said as of right now no one has expressed any interest in holding summer games there. 
Susanna expressed reservation in taking away 1/2 of the basketball hoops as it may exclude a group of 
people. Michelle Bellisa said that it sounds like a culture has been allowed to permeate Wallis Park and 
preventing people who live there to enjoy it. She suggested utilizing Chief Marino to help change the culture, 
and signs with park rules. John suggested that maybe a time frame would work so that everyone could use the 
courts and not feel like they are being monopolized by the same people every day. Karin thought a good 
place to start, while we sorted this out, was to have the park closed from dusk till dawn. 
===PAGE 3===
Karin motioned and Susanna seconded that to close Wallis Park from Dusk till Dawn. Approved 3-0. 
Karin said she would reach out to Chief Marino. 
Cheryl Shaw said that more no smoking sign on Wallis sign needs to go up as there has been lots of smoking, 
including pot smoking, and someone took the signs down. She also asked if it was possible to get additional no 
dogs signs. She also asked if it was possible to get a speed bump to slow down traffic. Karin said the street does 
not fall under the jurisdiction of the Park Commission and to contact the Chief of Police. 
8.Other business 
a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none 
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment - none 
9. Next meeting date / agenda - August 14th. 
10. Meeting adjourned at 7:45pm. 
Park Commission Meeting Minutes July 16, 2019 Page 2 of 2