===PAGE 1===
Park Commission meeting minutes March 29, 2021 page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
David Passios, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
Susanna Jewell, Secretary                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Ana Lockwood, Member 
  
Park Commission 
Monday, March 29, 2021 
MINUTES 
1.Dave Passios called the meeting to order at 6:36pm. Present: Dave Passios, Chris Sullivan, Ana Lockwood Absent: 
Karin Menard, Susanna Jewell 
2.Chris motioned and Ana seconded to accept the minutes of February 12, 2021 and March 1, 2021 
 Roll Call Vote 
 Chris - yes 
 Ana - yes 
 Dave - yes  
3.Recreation Director / DPW Director updates - Dave said he would make a point to invite the DPW director to one of 
our next meetings and also said he has been forwarding any emails that we receive that he is not copied on. Ana 
suggested that we have a list of things we would like to discuss with Rob when he is present at our next meeting.  
Chris read Kayla’s updates that the commission received earlier in the day into the record. The email is as follows: 
The Spring & Summer brochure is out. Spring program registration for residents is currently open, non-resident registration 
begin on Wednesday. Summer registration will begin in April.
A list of tasks/projects for the clean up days would greatly be appreciated, so I can update the website for sign ups. So far I have 
the following list based off the survey feedback:
Marshall Park - Trash clean up, brush clean up, basketball clean up, path to basketball court clean up/make more visible, 
Veteran Parks - trash clean up and brush clean up
Town Beach - trash clean up along fence, weeding
Park maintenance was put out to bid, I do not have an ofﬁcial date of when the bids are/were due back. The contract begins on 
July 1.
Marshal Park master Plan- I still only have updated lists from Chris & Susanna, and now Karin from the original list of Marshall 
so it has not yet been updated. I will continue to update based off Karins e-mail today. 
Field Policy - I don't believe we ever revisited the adult organization rate for ﬁelds, if we did and I missed it please let me know. 
The Phillis will be submitting a request for this season and I'd like to be able to give them a fee (whether it be the same as last 
year or new structure). 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission meeting minutes March 29, 2021 page  of 42
Beach rental policy - if there are any further changes on the policy after tonight's meeting please let me know. I am working on a 
separate policy for birthday party rentals of the facility. 
Beach - interviews were conducted last week & more scheduled for this week. Will have names of intended hires within the next 
two weeks. Still able to hire additional candidates after this if needed. Tentative dates for open to the public June 20- September 
12. Looking to hold another lifeguard class early May, will be hosting a WSI (water safety instructor) class, waiting on instructor 
availability. Water safety instructor is important certiﬁcation for teaching swim lessons.
4.Beach Rental Policy - discussion and vote - no discussion or vote as document had not been forwarded. 
5.Earth Day Clean Up - Chris said that he sees this as a week long endeavor and people can help when they are available. 
He said that most of his responses have been coming from groups of people - Boys and Girls Club, Girl Scouts, Project 
351 and the Skate Park group. He said that Smokestack Roasters and Salvation Army had stepped forward offering to 
help and Chris was working on the details. He said he did not get a lot of suggestions for new ideas for cleanup but he 
does have a good base of ideas. Chris said he had gone down to the beach to see what needed to be done there and also 
the pond side of Marshall. Dave said that the dog pound side needed to be raked out as there are a lot of acorns. Chris 
said there was a concern raised about the potential for needles in the basketball area at Marshall so we would need to be 
mindful of that. He also said he needed to coordinate with Rob on trash and leaf removal. Dave suggested that Chris 
show the list of potential project be shown to Rob so he can approve it all and make arrangements for pick up of debris. 
6.Maintenance policy discussion/vote - Chris said that he and Ana have some more discussion to do and they need to go 
back to DPW to establish some realistic expectations and how things get tracked. Ana agreed that there are things that 
need to be discussed with the DPW Director and what we set as a policy can match what he already does. Ana said that 
one of the things that is difficult right now is that we don’t know how things are currently being done. Dave said that 
planting a seed now that they are fully staffed that there might be someone familiar enough with the Park properties that 
could do this and take it off of the directors plate. Chris suggested that monthly reports would be beneficial and thought 
any major issues that came up we could be notified of via email just to keep us in the loop. Ana thought that in regards 
to the policy that knowing the process is important so that the proper timeline can be used. Chris asked if he and Ana 
could have a zoom meeting with Rob and Dave said they could. 
7.Marshall Park - master planning discussion including Skate Park - Chris mentioned that Karin had previously walked 
through Marshall Park with the head of the skate group and he did as well at a separate time and that the location that 
seems to be of potential interest to them is the area coming in through the Mass Ave side that has the wooded area and it 
would give some visibility from the road. Ana asked if the expression of interest in that area meant that they were 
definitely looking at Marshall. Chris said he didn’t think they took an official stance on it but they did seem interest.  
Dave said that that area would require some tree removal and was curious to know why they weren’t interested in the 
Chestnut Street side.  
    Dave read the email that Karin had sent to him prior to the meeting. The email read as follows: 
Goal: to improve Mashall Park to create a space for multi age activity and community events. 
I want to stress that not everything needs to be covered in the Master Plan - rules for use, signage for parking on Chestnut Street, fence repairs - 
those can all be something done now. 
Thoughts when going through the original list: 
Track / Walking Path - this would be at the top of my list. Connecting it to Main Street area would be a huge plus even if that meant one way in/one 
way out by Marshall Pond. 
Court - determine what can be salvaged, open up for visibility 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission meeting minutes March 29, 2021 page  of 43
Field space - I think there are a few in the ideas section that could be combined for the same goal - multipurpose field, open space/non designated 
space, reducing baseball fields/making them more adjustable. 
With seemingly dwindling numbers on the baseball side, and baseball really being the only field space the Park Commission has, I think 
consideration needs to be given on reducing the number of baseball fields we have. 
Unlike a baseball field, a rectangular field can be used for multiple sports activities - soccer, field hockey, lacrosse, football etc., but can also be used 
as open space when not in use. 
Parking - guidance by someone who knows parking would be beneficial so parking flow and safety would be taken into account. 
Skate Park - Anthony and I spent some time down at Marshall a few weeks ago. In my mind the location that stands out is the wooded area straight 
ahead when you pull in from Mass Ave. 
Pavilion - this would be a great addition to Marshall. It would allow hosting of programming, rental for use by individuals and cover from storms 
during sporting events. 
As I think of other ideas the first thing that comes to mind is: What will be used and what will draw people here. While on vacation I have looked at 
local parks and their usage quite a few times. While exercise circuits have been unused, sand volleyball courts, walking paths and rectangular fields 
were hopping. As we look at the future, I'd urge everyone to think about creating a community space that will be used - think of what other towns 
have that are popular, look at what they have that are not used, and start to reimagine Marshall. 
Community engagement - I think it is time for the commission to determine how we want to go about this as I think it is important for a variety of 
reasons. Should it be a survey? An open forum? Something else? If the consensus is a survey, I'd be happy to work with someone to get a preliminary 
one started that we can fine tune as a group at our next meeting. 
Dave said that he was interested in inviting the general public to meet at Marshall Park to just do a walk around 
so that they can see what Marshall Park offers now and what it could look like in the future. Chris said he likes 
the idea of both of a survey and a walk through and offered to help Karin with a survey that would be open 
ended but also have some structure to show that the commission has done some work behind the scenes. Dave 
agreed that we need to develop a park that people will want to come and use. Chris liked her mention of the 
volley ball court and may be of interest to the public. Ana wanted to know how, when we talk about multi 
purpose fields, we we will take into consideration the needs of the school and that some planning needs to be 
done as the school still uses the 90’ diamond. Dave said that the school district had been involved with some 
discussion in the past and that they had been looking at the possibility of putting fields on their campus. Ana 
asked if there was a way to keep the 90’ diamond as part of a multi-use field. Dave said by having a rectangular 
field is expands the usage season and that as soon as you put base lines onto a field a large section of the field 
unusable for anything except baseball. Chris said that he thought the commission would be respectful of the 
school needs but if the fields are moved to the school grounds it opens up more opportunity. He said that there is 
a significant need for more multi purpose fields in this town and its part of our task to figure it out in a timely 
manner. Ana pointed out that we have a field that is already built and could we figure out a way to make it multi 
use. She doesn’t want to shuffle fields from one place to another. Chris mentioned that there was still some 
fencing that need to be fixed. Dave said that there are also issues with broken hinges on gates and there really 
needs to be cataloged and all done at the same time. Chris said he had thought about a dog park and thought that 
leashed dogs allowed on the trails may alleviate that need. Dave thought if we had another small piece of 
property in town that a stand alone dog park could work well. Chris also thought the fitness circuit could 
possibly be tied into the trails. Parking he said remains an issue especially on the Chestnut side. Dave thought 
with the right parking engineering you could get 15-20 cars in there off the main area and could work if it was 
enforced. Chris thought a playground area, maybe something different, would be beneficial. He also suggested 
bike racks be added if this is to be a destination park. He pointed out that accessibility would need to be looked 
at as well. Dave said a concession stand would need to be brought into compliance. Chris offered to help Karin 
out with a survey.  
8.Other Business  
 a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none 
  b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment - none 
9.Set next meeting date - April 28, 2021 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission meeting minutes March 29, 2021 page  of 44
10. Chris motioned and Ana seconded to adjourn at 8:04pm. 
Roll Call V ote 
Chris - yes 
Ana - yes 
Dave - yes