===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Susanna Jewell, Secretary                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
Ana Lockwood, Member 
PARKS COMMISSION
Monday, November 22, 2021
Via Zoom
MINUTES
1.Open mee'ng K Menard called the mee0ng to order at 7pm. In a6endance was A Lockwood, C Sullivan, D 
Passios, K Menard.  
2.Public and Board Comments. C Sullivan stated Soccer is winding down and it was a good season. If they had 
portable nets the season could con0nue.  
3. Approval of Minutes- none 
4. DPW/Town Manager/Recrea'on Director Updates. None. Will request an update from Darren. 
5. Lunenburg Skate Park presenta'on and discussion - Greg Roy presented an update on the plan for the park 
and are working with poten0al designers for the future. Presented a map of loca0on of proposed park. It is 
100x80, 8,000 square foot park posi0oned in a triangular are. Play areas wouldn’t have to be modiﬁed. The 
unpaved road would have to be slightly shiWed and widen that area for extra parking places. Possibly have a 3 
W. ﬁll area around park. No conﬂicts with any underground u0li0es. Drainage mi0ga0on is needed, possibly a 
small reten0on basin. G Roy showed a conceptual design which one of the designers submi6ed. He stated that 
they are ready to move forward and are wai0ng for the okay from this Park Commission. 
Discussion from Commission. K Menard ques0oned the easement for the electrical service, G Roy assured her 
that it was not a problem with the loca0on.  She ques0oned the proximity to the wetlands to which G Roy 
iden0ﬁed buﬀer zones which he worked the plan within the limits. G Roy will ﬁle a No0ce of Intent with The 
Conserva0on Commission.  A Lockwood ques0oned the parking needs for a park this size. Anthony Caiozzo 
responded that it could be walked to from the schools and could hold 15 or so cars and 25 patrons at a 0me. G 
Roy and A Caiozzo will look for guidance for parking analysis informa0on.  A Lockwood asked about the 
maintenance cost. G Roy answered that when they decide on a designer that will come into the plan.  A 
Caiozzo will give K Menard the recrea0onal director contact in Montague for informa0on on their park. A 
Lockwood added her concerns about how to recognize and address (such as naming the park) the 
organiza0ons involved in the project and fundraising. Discussion on 0meline for Skate Park and the Master 
Plan. D Passios voiced that as a commissioner he would like a full discussion and voter support for the ﬁnal 
design. A Caiozzo asked what is on the checklist from the Commission if any.  K Menard would like to meet 
with them and the Town Manager to see how exactly the permission accept the design and project works. 
A Caiozzo presented the fundraising ﬁgures. They have about $130,000 in cash and in kind dona0ons and will 
be receiving another $10,000 from a local channel founda0on in early December .  Also will receive another 
$25,000 charitable dona0on from another local founda0on in early January. They are looking at the cost of the 
park to run approximately $25 per square foot and looking to get the price down from dona0on of materials.  
Looking at breaking ground between April-June 2022. Will es0mate another $25,000 will be needed at that 
0me. D Passios asked if the park will be giWed to the town upon comple0on which G Roy conﬁrmed. K Menard 

===PAGE 2===
asked if the Commission was ready to make a decision on allowing G Roy and A Caiozzo to move forward on 
the project. Discussion on steps to move forward. Greg stated that they will need a legal agreement with Town 
Council that the Town is giving an authoriza0on to go to bid.   
C Sullivan made a mo0on to grant space to Lunenburg Skate Park for the purpose of an up to 8,000 square foot 
Skate Park in the loca0on as documented in the plans that were presented tonight for the purpose of a 
preliminary design plan. D Passios seconded.  
 Chris Sullivan - yes 
 Dave Passios - yes 
 Ana Lockwood - yes  
 Karin Menard - yes 
6. Discussion and recommenda'on of ﬁrm for Marshall Park Landscape Architectural and Engineering 
Services.  K Menard had sent an email to commissioners with price proposals and rankings. Open discussion 
followed.  K Menard gave the price proposals, Wright Ostermier $36,500, Weston & Sampson 36,760, Ray 
Dunetz $50,000 and Warner Larson $46,920. C Sullivan was in favor of Weston & Sampson. D Passios favored 
Warner Larson. A Lockwood favored Wright Ostermier and Weston Sampson, K Menard also favored Wright 
Ostermier and Weston Sampson. 
D Passios made mo0on to accept the proposal from Wright Ostermier Landscape Architects for the 
architectural and landscape engineering services for the Marshall Park project. A Lockwood seconded. 
Discussion, C Sullivan had concerns about their size as a ﬁrm but will support the mo0on. Vote was unanimous. 
7. Open Space Update. A Lockwood stated they met two weeks ago and are going to do a site visit on 
December 4th to diﬀerent proper0es around Shirley Lake. The permanent Road doesn’t have easy access or 
parking. The Open Space Commi6ee received a dona0on of $10,000 dona0on from the farm that was going to 
be behind Walmart, to be used at the discre0on of the Commi6ee. A proposal should be draWed if Parks wants 
to request on how they could use some of the money for the community. She recommended looking at the 
town beach and the weeds control for a project. C Sullivan men0on the signage, such as dog policies, on 
Northﬁeld Rd Park could be used there. Discussion on both those sugges0ons. D Passios would like to pass 
over this un0l the next mee0ng. 
8. Other business none 
9. Next mee'ng date - Thursday December 2nd at 7:00 as a hybrid mee0ng in the Bilo6a Room and Zoom. 
Public is encouraged to par0cipate.  An0cipated dates for public mee0ngs 12/2- and 1/5 
10. Adjourn C Sullivan mo0on to adjourn at 9:04pm, seconded by A Lockwood. 
 Chris Sullivan - yes 
 Ana Lockwood - yes 
 Dave Passios - yes 
 Karin Menard - yes 
Respectfully submitted 
Dawn Pavone