===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Susanna Jewell, Secretary                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
Ana Lockwood, Member 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
PARKS COMMISSION  
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2021 
Minutes
1. Open Mee)ng via Zoom-K Menard opened mee)ng at 7:00pm, in a:endance was Chris Sullivan, Susanna 
Jewell, Ana Lockwood, Dave Passios and Karin Menard. DPW Director Rob Oliva was also in a:endance.  
2. Public and Board Comment-none  
3. Approval of Minutes-none  
4. DPW/Town Manager/Recrea)on Director Updates-R Oliva told of the probable hiring of a Recrea)on 
Director . He is addressing the poison ivy problem and is going to have it treated, he believes it’s a series of 
three treatments.  
A Lockwood asked about the status of the removal of the light posts at Marshall Pond. He promised to get to 
them. Her other concern was date of the closing of the Town Beach and a resident men)oned they couldn’t 
pay cash to get in. Asked if that was the policy and some discussion followed to address that for next season.  
K Menard asked about the beaver situa)on at Marshall Pond. Rob viewed it that morning and it is draining but 
men)oned the beavers are back and damming up the exis)ng grate at the outlet pipe. They’ve been out to 
clean it but know that the beavers work every night. A Lockwood asked if there was a plan to remove them or 
if there’s another plan to remediate the problem. R Oliva agreed to ﬁnd other ways unless it’s an emergency 
situa)on will not remove them because it’s not the season. He will call a company for help on the issue.  
R Oliva talked about the president of the LBA sending an email regarding Trunk and Treat and oﬀered to co-
sponsor or help with the event. He is open to sugges)ons or help from the commission. K Menard wants to 
wait to see if the Recrea)on Director posi)on if ﬁlled to execute it. C Sullivan has been ﬁelding ques)ons about 
adult soccer on Sundays on one of the grass ﬁelds at the high school run through the Commission. This took 
place Pre-Covid. K Menard stated that there was a volunteer that took registra)ons and money in the past.  
5. Appointment @ 7:15pm-01462 Skate Park- Anthony Caiozzo and Greg Roy joined the mee)ng. A Caiozzo 
presented, went on to say the fund raising been going on for 40 or so months and they now have about 
$84,000. They have three fundraisers scheduled for the next three months and oﬀered to help at the Trunk 
and Treat event. G Roy and R Oliva have provided them with manpower and equipment to do some digging at 
the park to explore the site that was walked individually with K Menard, C Sullivan and D Passios. This was to 
look underground to provide a topological and soil analysis diagram for the Skate Park designers. He believes 
that by November they could decide on which site is more feasible.  

===PAGE 2===
G Roy shared that they did the digging last week and found ledge 18 inches below grade to 42 inches and 12 
1⁄2 feet to 3 1⁄2 feet. The did soil tes)ng as you come into the park from Rte 2a and the road down to the li:le 
league ﬁeld, in the wooded area between the parking area that the road upgrading of the playground area. 
There is a buried electrical line under the swing set so stayed away from that area.  
C Sullivan asked about the park size and the amount needed. A Caizzo responded that the will need about 
$200,000 and by December they expect to have a good amount of that, they will have to go for dona)ons in 
the spring once they have a design in hand. He believe the size of the park would be between 7500 and 10,000 
square feet. All this will be depending on the design and the community focus. Discussion on when is the 
commission’s )meline on the commitment of the skate park, the size of the park, and who does the 
community outreach.  
A Caiozzo asked G Roy asked the square footage of what was excavated. G Roy answered between 12 and 
15,000 square feet of area between the exis)ng edges of the traveled ways.  
D Passios went over the Commission’s )meline and stated that they’re 90 days from star)ng to do anything, 
there is no RFQ. He recalled from prior discussion on the size of that park that they agreed on 5,000 square 
feet but were open to discuss a change in size. K Menard will put the size discussion on a future agenda.  
6. Marshall Park Master Planning Discussion-K Menard received the RFP from the Assistant Town Manager and 
asked if all members were able to access it. D Passios asked how many pages are the actual scope of work and 
showed concern that they make sure that the informa)on they get is what they need at that point because 
that $50,000 could get used up quickly. Discussion on what was included in the RFP and some of the items 
were listed incorrectly. R Oliva added that the RFP is taking it through all stages right up to preparing bid 
documents. D Passios suggested that task 3 is unrealis)c and well beyond the $50,000. He thinks if task 1 and 
part of task 2 were done the rest could be grant funded. K Menard will go through it and bring it back with 
small tasks she thinks important.  
7. Marshall Park Sep)c/Bathroom Facili)es Discussion-K Menard spoke of the last mee)ng and mee)ng with 
the BOH where the sep)c at Marshall was discussed. The BOH made a mo)on to approve to fund some 
inves)ga)ve work on the sep)c system at Marshall. K Menard asked G Roy to go over the procedure and 
process of the work for the sep)c design and approval. Discussion on the loca)on of the system. D Passios led 
a discussion on the number of toilets and sinks for the facility building on the recommenda)on of the BOH of 3 
toilets and a sink on each side. A Lockwood asked if the $100,000 is for planning not necessarily execu)ng the 
design. D Passios answered the grant would be for the design and installa)on and possible the pad for the 
building. D Passios recommended to record a formal vote on acceptance of the funds.  
Mo)on made by D Passios to support moving forward with the Board Of Health proposal of preliminary soil 
and engineering design at Marshall Park for repair of sep)c system, seconded by S Jewell. 
Roll Call Vote 
S Jewell-aye 
A Lockwood-aye 
D. Passios- aye 
C Sullivan-aye 
K Menard-aye.  
8. Dog Policy Review of Recommended Changes and Vote-Policy had been made to allow dogs oﬀ leash in 
some areas of Marshall Park. K Menard sent the policy to the Town Manager who forwarded it to Town 
Counsel. K Menard conveyed that the Town Manager had concerns on who would be issuing the ﬁnes for non-
compliance of the policy. Town Counsel cited gave recommenda)ons of changing the name of policy to dog 
regula)ons and cited some general laws. He also made some notes on the oﬀ leash areas ﬁnes and presents 
===PAGE 3===
ﬁnes for ﬁrst, second, and third oﬀenses and that the commission may also issue a no trespass order in 
accordance to Mass General Laws. He added that these regula)ons are in addi)on to and do not supersede or 
replace any local bylaws or regula)ons.  
S Jewell ques)oned who will report any oﬀense and who will respond if someone makes a complaint. 
Discussion followed on a possible call to police or animal control oﬃcer, safety issues of unleashed dogs. K 
Menard will inquire with the Town Manger on that. C Sullivan added that if the rules can’t be followed then 
possibly dogs won’t be allowed in the park at all.  
9. Discussion on Invasive Plants at Park Proper)es-S Jewell was going to look into the weeds at Marshall Pond, 
she and A Lockwood will to walk the area.  
K Menard believes the weed growth at the Town beach is a concerning and wants to ask R Oliva to come up 
with a plan for the beach and Marshall pond. She’s like to have the poison ivy treated with a low 
environmental impact treatment. D Passios men)oned that R Oliva is working on a stretch of Poison Ivy along 
the side of the track by the basketball court, a small area will get sprayed.  
A Lockwood men)on the pond is full of wildlife and the over fer)lizing is one blame for the overgrowth weeds. 
K Menard just want to know that there is a plan in place and if it will be chemically treated.  
Mo)on: A Lockwood made a mo)on to request that the DPW come up with a plan and )meline by the Park 
Commission mee)ng of October 27th to address na)ve and non- na)ve plants at the following loca)ons, 
Marshall Pond and Town Beach water . Seconded by S Jewell.  
Roll call Vote: 
C Sullivan-Aye 
D Passios-Aye 
A Lockwood-Aye 
S Jewell-Aye 
K Menard-Aye  
Discussion on the wording of a mo)on, the priori)es and the speciﬁcs. D Passios thinks that the beach would 
be the highest priority. D Passios  
10. Dona)on of Picnic Table for Marshall Pond-K Menard told of an anonymous dona)on of a picnic table to be 
put at Marshall Pond. C Sullivan asked if it should be stained to preserve it.  
Mo)on made by C Sullivan to accept the table as a gik. A Lockwood seconded Roll Mo)on made by C Sullivan 
to accept the table as a gik. A Lockwood seconded. 
Roll call vote:  
C Sullivan-Aye 
D Passios-Aye 
A Lockwood-Aye 
S Jewell-Aye 
K Menard-Aye  
Karin said she would sent to Town Manager to be brought before the Select board for approval.  
11. Other Business-D Passios asked when they are going to move forward with the process of Fitzgerald 
designa)on switched over . K Menard stated they need to have a conversa)on with the ConCom. Dave believes 
that the ConCom chair knows that it’s not in their care and custody legally and thought the Open Space 
Commi:ee came up with it as a general municipal. Discussion followed on how the land was purchased or if it 
===PAGE 4===
was taken for tax )tle by the town and if the land is deeded in a certain way. K Menard will have a conversa)on 
with the ConCom chair, and talk to the Town Manager and Town Counsel. She’d like to get all the leg work 
done now and have it ready for the spring Town mee)ng warrant.  
D Passios wants to discuss Fitzgerald being converted to another use.  
12. Next Mee)ng Date/Agenda-September 29 at 7:00. On the agenda will be the Marshall Park Master Plan, 
The Skate Park square footage, The Beach Director for updates on the beach is going and Final review of the 
dog policy and the School Commi:ee about ﬁelds at Marshall Park.  
13. Adjourn-A Lockwood made a mo)on to adjourn at 8:59pm. C Sullivan seconded Roll call: C Sullivan-Aye, D 
Passios-Aye, A Lockwood-Aye, S Jewell-Aye, K Menard- Aye  
Respeclully submi:ed Dawn Pavone 
Minutes Secretary  