===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission Meeting Minutes January 25, 2021 Page  of 31
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
David Passios, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
Susanna Jewell, Secretary                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Ana Lockwood, Member 
  
Park Commission 
January 25, 2021 
Meeting Minutes 
1.Karin called meeting to order at 7pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Susanna Jewell, Dave Passios, Ana Lockwood, Chris 
Sullivan, Recreation Director Kayla Wright. 
2.Discussion with Lunenburg Skate Park group regarding the pros and cons of building a skate park within Marshall Park and 
potential decision/vote on supporting a park and park size at this location. 
Griffin Caiozzo and Chris Roy did a presentation about why the Skate Park group feels that the Town of Lunenburg needs a skate 
park, how they got here to this point and the current status of their work.   
Karin asked the group to talk about the pros and cons of Marshall Park and added that this was the only property that the Park 
Commission has any control over out of the locations that Griffin and Chris mentioned. Karin said that a pro that she sees is that 
this is a piece of property that the Commission currently has control over so there is no other group involved in the governance of 
this property if a skate park did go in at Marshall Park. Chris added that the Commission is in the beginning process of laying out 
a Marshall Park master plan and this piece could fit in nicely and be visible and not tucked away. Ana Lockwood said she doesn’t 
agree with all of the cons that the skate group presented.  She said there are two access points to Marshall Park - one off Mass Ave 
and one off of Chestnut - and the Town is working on getting funds for building more sidewalks. She also said that the previous 
skate park location may not have been ideal but with the amount of acreage we have to work with we can come up with a better 
location. She thought the previous park had high use for awhile but had no care and maintenance. She cited the new playground at 
Wallis Park as an example of not using history to determine the future. She said she didn’t think the cons, in the way the Skate 
Park group presented them, were necessarily deal breakers. She what said she hoped to gain from this conversation was what it 
would take for the Skate Park group to say that Marshall Parkwas a good option but if Marshall Park isn’t a place they would 
consider she didn’t think there was much more to discuss. Aiden Moore said they are open to our suggestions but they think the 
original location is still the best but that a good park could still be built at Marshall depending on the location within Marshall 
Park. Aiden said that they would be concerned about the lack of visibility at Marshall Park. Dave Passios mentioned that his 
concern with the TCP location, which he also brought up at Capital Planning, is that there has been discussion about a small 
parking area for the Senior Center and part of the TCP property may be needed to complete that. He also didn’t think that 
aesthetically it would be a good location for it if TCP becomes town offices. Dave said that there are two locations at Marshall that 
he thinks would be very visible locations from the street at Marshall - where the old bathroom used to be is very visible from 
Chestnut Street and that the old growth trees in that are are already gone and also along the entrance driveway to the right as you 
are driving in from 2A. He also thought a pull station for emergencies may be a good addition to deal with emergency responses. 
Dave said that because this location is already a Park more grant funding may be available than if they went forward with the TCP 
location. Susanna said she really likes the idea of putting it in around the entrance area and asked Dave if he had taken a look at 
the size of the area. Dave said that he hadn’t but would like to get a better idea from the Skate Park group what the overall size 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission Meeting Minutes January 25, 2021 Page  of 32
was that they would need above and beyond the concrete skate area. Ana said that she had done some quick measurements and 
there was easily 10,000 square feet in the area next to the entrance. Chris said that he would be in favor of reopening discussions 
on the size of the park as he has some concerns about the size of the park that the Park Commission previously voted to support 
which predates his tenure on the commission.  Susanna says she cares more about a skate board park being well integrated into 
Marshall Park and looking like it belongs there more than the actual square footage is. Dave said he thought we need to first 
decide if we want to put this in the Park and that size and what we want to see included should be an ongoing conversation. Griffin 
Caiozzo raised a few issues with a Marshall Park location - safety of children walking down Mass Ave to Marshall Park from 
school and concerns about leaves getting onto the skatepark surface causing safety issues and increased maintenance. Karin said if 
a skate park goes in at this location that she doesn’t believe it would be the intention of the current Park Commission to throw it in 
there and never look at it again that its going to to be maintained to the best of their ability and its going to be utilized and 
overseen so it wouldn’t see the same fate as the old park. She said she does have concerns on size but she does agree with Susanna 
that aesthetically it needs to fit the area but still has hesitation in supporting a park of a larger size that is going to be built as a 
destination. Karin said we are a community of 12,000 people and when we look at the size everything that has been shared with 
the commission and we have researched on our own, a skate spot is an appropriate size.  
Phil Moore clarified that the boys position on the safety of Marshall Park was given to them by the former Police Chief and other 
groups when originally evaluating sites. He also said that it was wonderful to see collaboration between the two groups and a 
positive conversation. 
Peter Beardmore wanted to share a little history that he thought would be important in the discussion. He said back in 2004 there 
were a group of kids who were skating on Memorial Drive area and there were a lot of complaints. He said that when the first 
skate park in at Marshall one of the concerns expressed was that skaters wouldn’t use it because it was too far away from where 
skaters were at the end of the school day. Peter expressed concern that the change of location is because of objections coming 
from people who will work or spend a lot of time at what is expected to become Town Hall and those at the Eagle House property 
and that he doesn’t think that anyone has a claim to that property more than anyone else. He said that before the rug is pulled out 
on them for the location at the center of town there should be a discussion with all the stake holders to see if something can be 
worked out. Karin chimed in that she has not heard anything from Town Hall or the Senior Center and that original decision that 
Parks made almost a year ago not to support that location was done independently. She also said that the piece of land by TCP is 
not owned by the Park Commission and its not their land to give so the only thing in her opinion that the Park Commission could 
do is to decide on whether to support or not to support and that is what the Park Commission did. She also said the vote by the 
Park Commission that Parks has no interest in maintaining or supporting a skate park on that property was not a vote saying not to 
build at that location. Ana added that there was nothing sneaky going on and that this board is interested in pursuing a skate park 
at Marshall Park. Peter added that at the end of the day there was property that was pledged to the skate park group and they have 
raised money all with that property in mind and the expectation that the skate park if built would be accessible to the student and 
the kids that it is intended to service. He said that the concerns that the student members of the skate park have are the same 
concerns that he has especially around transportation and he doesn’t think kids will be motivated to travel 1/2 to 3/4 of a mile to 
Marshall Park and that some of the opportunity of this project may be lost if its moved down there. He also said he doesn’t think 
there has been enough discussion with the stake holders about the TCP property. Ana said that we can only discuss things from the 
Park Commission side and we as a commission had a previous vote to not support the TCP location and that what is now in front 
the Commission is whether to support a skate park at Marshall Park and that our vote does not change what the skate group does 
and they can continue to pursue the original location. Karin let Peter know that he could reach out to any of the Park 
Commissioners to further discuss and that she doesn’t disagree with many of his points around the original location. She also said 
that the original choice of property never involved Parks in the discussion so it is a situation where one group made a decision 
without another knowing. She said that she believes a skate park could still go in there and believes it could be overseen by 
another group and that it wasn’t the goal of the Park Commission to try and strong arm anyone to move to a location that they 
don’t want to be in. Chris added that he has now seen the direction Marshall Park is going and feels this is a project that would fit 
in well there. Griffin asked if there was anything they could do to put the TCP location land under the Park Commission. Karin 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission Meeting Minutes January 25, 2021 Page  of 33
said that her understanding is that a piece of property could be moved from one group to another by a vote at Town meeting. 
Griffin asked if they could start the project now at TCP and then bring it to town meeting. Karin said we weren’t there to tell them 
what to do and that they could pursue that avenue if they wanted too. Phil asked if the Park Commission wants to be a collaborator 
on this project if it went in at Marshall Park. Karin said that the the feeling of the previous park commission was that we were in 
support of a skate park if it went in on a piece of property that was in the care, custody and control of the commission and if we 
can get everyone on the same page and support a skate park at Marshall that we would be a partner in this. She said the Park 
Commission wouldn’t do all the leg work as we have only a part time employee but that we would support the endeavors. Dave 
added that Parks will do everything possible to make it the greatest Skate Park it can be if it goes in at Marshall Park. Griffin 
asked where the Skate Park falls in terms of priority. Ana answered by saying having a group who advocating for a park makes it a 
priority. Susanna suggested that we not move forward with the park until we know for sure that they want to go in there as it 
becomes a very important part. 
Ana motioned and Susanna seconded for the Park Commission to support the building of skate park within Marshall Park. 
Dave said he wanted to make it very clear that this was just a vote to support a skate park within the boundaries at Marshall Park 
and does not take location and size into consideration.  
Chris said he was concerned about the size and that if we were only looking to support a 5,000 square foot skate park with this 
motion that he didn’t think is what the skate group wanted. Ana said she thought the discussion on size could be separate 
discussion. Dave thought it could be done at a future meeting. Anthony added that he didn’t think enough information was 
provided during the meeting to make a decision.  
Roll call vote 
Ana - yes 
Dave - yes 
Susanna - yes 
Chris - yes 
Karin - yes 
Karin summarized with the boys that they have support from the Park Commission for a skate park within the boundaries of 
Marshall Park and she emphasized there is still work to be done both with the commission and as their individual group. Karin 
also asked the group to let the commission know if they don’t want to move forward at the Marshall Park location. Susanna asked 
the skate group to forward the presentation they shared tonight to the group. 
3.Other Business  
 a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting 
  b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment  
  Dave asked that the revolving fund be put on the agenda for the next meeting.  
4. Next meeting - February 12, 2021 @ 6:30pm 
5. Susanna motioned and Chris seconded to adjourn at 8:50.  
   
Roll Call Vote: 
  Susanna - yes 
  Chris - yes 
  Ana - yes 
  Dave - yes 
  Karin - yes