===PAGE 1===
Page1of 4
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Ana Lockwood, Chair
Dave Passios, Vice Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pat Hakey
Chris Sullivan
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Parks@lunenburgonline.com
November 16, 2022
Minutes
Members present:  Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan
Absent:  Dave Passios and Patrick Hakey
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and
digitally recorded.”
First item on the agenda, Minutes
K. Menard made a motion to approve the minutes for October 26, 2022. C. Sullivan seconded.
Roll Call Vote,
C. Sullivan - yes
K. Menard - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
Next item on the agenda, Updates from the Chair
A.Lockwood indicated P. Visconti, Facilities Director, has resigned and provided the
following Facilities Director updates:
●The Commission had not heard back from WOLA.
●Landscaping at parks. Veteran’s Park has been cleaned.
●McNally Park, abatement is complete, the cost was $4,300.00 and will request funding
approval.
●Marshall Park Pond and weed control added to capital planning requests.
●The Beach House is going back out to bid in January. This will be funded out of the
Operational Budget.
●The 4 resumes for the Recreational Director will be revisited.
●The Marshall Park survey has been awarded to Dillis and Roy for the cost of $18,900.00.

===PAGE 2===
Page2of 4
A. Lockwood stated she has spoken to Patrick Flaherty and Winter soccer is scheduled for
grades 3-4 and to be held in January.
A. Lockwood indicated the Age Friendly Survey has gone out and there has been 120
responses already.
A. Lockwood noted the Commission should start to work on a 5-10 year plan.
A. Lockwood discussed  the Playground next to McNally Park and adjacent to Whalom Luxury
Apartments. A. Lockwood was hoping to get the land donated to the Town. K. Menard noted the
Park Commission had rejected accepting the property when the playground wasn’t inspected.
K. Menard indicated she has gone through the minutes from 2014 to the present and has
created a spreadsheet with all the motions and fees charged. This will be helpful with searching
for certain items. This will be kept digital and a hardcopy. P. Hakey will assist with the reviewing
of the spreadsheet for content and accuracy.
Next item on the agenda, 7:30 Appointment with Lunenburg Business Association to discuss
co-hosting events and how to create a partnership moving forward.
A. Lockwood indicated they were unable to meet tonight. A. Lockwood will connect with them at
a later date.
Next item on the agenda - Town Meeting Article discussion
C. Sullivan thought it went well and there seems to be support from the Select Board and
Finance as well as the attendees.
K. Menard was pleased with the outcome. K. Menard indicated the feedback via text received
was positive and complimentary. The feedback noted the nice job on the presentation and
answered their questions with having to be asked. Kudos from Betty McDonald regarding
getting things done in a timely manner. A Facebook post thanked the Commission for involving
the community.
K. Menard noted T-ball still needs to be addressed.
A. Lockwood feels the town trusts the Commission to do the right thing
A. Lockwood is going to reach out to the Town Manager to devise an action plan.
Next on the agenda, Grant application discussion
A. Lockwood is going to reach out to the Town Manager to devise an action plan for grant
applications. K.Menard suggested soliciting assistance from the community/residents. A.
Lockwood noted the 4 big grants are the Land & Water, PARC, ADA and Dog Park.
Next on the agenda, Marshall Park Engineering survey
===PAGE 3===
Page3of 4
C. Sullivan stated he has received 20 responses to the survey thus far. The Commission had
discussion regarding posting to Town sites, website, QR Code etc. to continue to get the
exposure.
Next item on the agenda, Veterans Memorial Park benches repair update.
A. Lockwood asked C. Sullivan if he has heard back for the Boy Scouts. C. Sullivan stated no,
he will follow-up again with the Scout Master. A. Lockwood stated a family would like to donate
for materials but is unable to do the labor. C. Sullivan is not sure the boy scouts have the ability
to repair entire benches as opposed to just repainting.
Next item on the agenda, 51 Parmenter Road discussion.
A. Lockwood noted the Open Space Committee has been discussing access to Lake Shirley.
Stump Cove has been authorized for up to $200,000.00 for a title search. A. Lockwood does not
feel like the water access is ideal. A. Lockwood visited 51 Parmeter Road and feels the water
access is much more user-friendly and there is potential for parking for rooftop sports.
A. Lockwood asked the Commission if they would like to defer this to Open Space. K. Menard
would like to see Open Space research this further.
C. Sullivan asked if there is a Lake Association that needs to be consulted. A. Lockwood noted
there is a volunteer association that treats the lake.
K. Menard indicated Stump Cove was attractive as it could open the lake for snowmobiling.
K. Menard does not feel Stump Cove is appropriate for rooftop sports.
The Commission agreed this property is of interest for a park. A. Lockwood will bring this to the
Open Space and let them know the Parks Commission is interested in pursuing and would like
their support.
Next item on the agenda, Naming of Facilities policy creation discussion.
K. Menard feels like this is the time for the discussion. K. Menard shared the school’s policy with
the Board and briefly reviewed the policy. A. Lockwood feels a financial contribution should be
taken into consideration. C. Sullivan feels the vetting process is important.
K. Menard will work on putting something together for further review.
Next item on the agenda, Board comment
K. Menard acknowledged the passing of Cheryl Shaw after a brave battle with cancer. C. Shaw
worked as a lifeguard at the Town Beach for many years.
Next meeting is scheduled for December 14, 2022 at 7 pm.
===PAGE 4===
Page4of 4
C. Sullivan made a motion to adjourn. K.Menard seconded. Roll Call Vote
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
Adjourned: 8:50pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary