===PAGE 1===
Park Commission December 14, 2022 Minutes Page  of 15
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pat Hakey, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
December 14,  2022 
MINUTES 
Members present:Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard and, Christopher Sullivan  
Absent:  Dave Passios and Patrick Hakey 
A. Lockwood called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast 
live and digitally recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Minutes. 
K. Menard made a motion to approve the minutes for November 16, 2022. C. Sullivan seconded. 
Roll Call Vote, 
C. Sullivan - yes 
K. Menard - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Manager Updates.  
A. Lockwood indicated the following updates: 
• The cleanings at the parks have been completed. 
• Vandalism at Powell Field, a car had entered and done some extensive damage. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach Facilities Repair. 
A. Lockwood indicated several quotes have been received that range from $32,000 to $72,000. The Town 
Manager would like to utilize the revolving funds for repairs . These repairs can be done during the winter. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission December 14, 2022 Minutes Page  of 25
K. Menard stated she would like to see these buildings maintained the way they should be if the Parks is putting 
money into them. A. Lockwood feels the Town Manager is extremely responsive. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Survey Status. 
C. Sullivan stated there have been 95 responses. C. Sullivan reviewed with the Commission the survey 
responses and demographics. 
Next on the agenda, Veterans Memorial Park Benches Update. 
C. Sullivan indicated he has not gotten an update from the Boy Scouts. A. Lockwood stated the Town Manager 
reached out to Montachusett Regional Technical V ocational School (Monty Tech) to see if this was a project 
they could do. Monty Tech stated the wood on the benches needs refinishing or replace it with a composite 
material. A. Lockwood will get a quote for the composite replacement. 
Next on the agenda, McNally Park Sign: Accept Donation. 
A. Lockwood stated the new sign has been installed. C. Sullivan asked if the Commission was notified that all 
the shrubs were being removed. A.Lockwood did not recall being notified. A. Lockwood will reach out to the 
Town Manager. 
K. Menard made a motion to accept the new sign at McNally Park as a gift to the Town of Lunenburg. A. 
Lockwood seconded.  
Roll Call Vote, 
C. Sullivan - yes 
K. Menard - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
Next item on the agenda, Little League Update. 
A. Lockwood attended the Little League Board meeting. There was some discussion about a Spring clean-up 
and creating a punch list. 
Next item on the agenda, Capital Plan Requests Update. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission December 14, 2022 Minutes Page  of 35
A. Lockwood noted there were approximately $80,000 in Capital Plan requests for Lake Whalom and Marshall 
Pond. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park IFB Draft: Discuss how to create a draft. 
A. Lockwood stated she spoke with the Town Manager and she indicated it would be about a 4 month window 
to draft the IFB. If the Commission was willing to help it could be a 2 month process to get it out. 
K. Menard offered to help with the process. A. Lockwood suggests a first pass with what applies to the Parks 
Commission, members review and have the Town Manager review.  
A. Lockwood would like one lead person to start the process. C. Sullivan will try to make some time over the 
Holidays to start the process. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Grants: Plan for completing applications  
A. Lockwood asked K. Menard if she would complete the application for the Water & Land Conservation Trust 
Grant. A. Lockwood suggests finding out if they are eligible if the engineering has not been completed yet. K. 
Menard will reach out to the grant authorities. 
The application deadline is January 23, 2023. The Town Manager needs to approve the application before 
submission. 
Next item on the agenda, ARPA Updates: How to use Funds 
A. Lockwood spoke with the Town Manager regarding the funds being used to build Marshall Park and the 
reimbursement going toward the construction. The Town Manager stated no, the funds go into free cash. 
K. Menard asked if the Commission could raise and appropriate the funds that wouldn’t be reimbursed by the 
grant at Town Meeting and use a portion of ARPA funds so money would not be returned to the general fund. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Funding Strategy 
A. Lockwood asked the Town Manager the best strategy to obtain funding. The Town Manager feels it would be 
more straightforward to go to Town Meeting once. K. Menard feels that would be the best solution but there 
may be a need to go back more than once. 
Next item on the agenda, 2023 Field & User Fees 
A. Lockwood would like to keep the fees in alignment with the schools to keep everything equitable and 
accessible.  A. Lockwood feels there should be a differentiation on for profit and non-profit fees. C. Sullivan 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission December 14, 2022 Minutes Page  of 45
feels that a Lunenburg resident should not necessarily pay a different fee whether for profit or not for profit. K. 
Menard concurs with C. Sullivan’s statement. 
K. Menard would rather see youth sport pay a flat fee per user, which may make accounting on both ends easier. 
K. Menard also noted there should be consideration for outside user groups for a by the hour fee.  
A. Lockwood asked if the Commission would like to adjust their fee schedule. K. Menard suggests 
organizations that use the fields for more hours should pay a seasonal rate. 
The Commission will revisit this issue at a future meeting. 
No changes will be made to the Little League fees at this time. 
Next item on the agenda, Sidewalk to Town Beach: request to Select Board & Town Manager   
A. Lockwood indicated she would like the Commission to request the use of the Complete Streets Project funds 
to make it safer and more accessible to access the Town Beach. 
C. Sullivan made a motion for A. Lockwood to submit the request to the Town Manager and the Select Board on 
behalf of the Park Commission if Town funds are available to install sidewalks leading to the Town Beach from 
the rotary. K. Menard seconded. 
Roll Call Vote, 
C. Sullivan - yes 
K. Menard - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
Other Business 
C. Sullivan asked if there was any update on the TCP indoor soccer. A. Lockwood stated it is live and 
registration is active. A. Lockwood indicated there are 8 participants registered and she will be working on 
advertising. 
Public Comment 
K. Menard noted the Town lost Gen Nass who was with the Town for 35 years. The Town is hoping to 
memorialize all her contributions. 
Next meeting is scheduled for January 18, 2023 at 7 pm. 
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission December 14, 2022 Minutes Page  of 55
K. Menard  made a motion to adjourn. C. Sullivan seconded. Roll Call Vote 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
 Adjourned: 9:39 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Secretary