===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes August 2, 2022 page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                          Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pat Hakey, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Meeting Minutes 
July 20, 2022 
Members present:Ana Lockwood, Dave Passios, Karin Menard and Christopher Sullivan  
Absent: Patrick Hakey. 
Additional Attendees: Liz Simeone, Bill Bernard and Rob Thompson 
A. Lockwood called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM and C. Sullivan read “This meeting is being broadcast live and 
digitally recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Board and Public Comment, none. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes, none 
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach Updates 
L. Simeone updated the Commission in the swim lessons and how everything was going smoothly. C. Sullivan asked 
about the restroom cleans. L. Simeone stated they are cleaned once per week. L. Simeone notes the buoys are in the 
water.  
K. Menard asked how the swim lesson sign-ups worked out. L. Simeone stated they worked out well. D. Passios added a 
kudos to Public Safety for having a visible presence and keeping the speeds down. 
Next on the agenda, Marshall Park 
1. Discussion for clarification and possibly rescind Park Commission vote on committing installing septic system 
and a two toilet facility with Board of Health funding. 
A. Lockwood indicated she met with the Board of Health (BoH) and there was discussion to exactly where to install the 
toilets. D. Passios stated the toilets will be at the same location as previous toilets, on the plateau at the end of the septic 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes August 2, 2022 page  of 52
area. D. Pasios noted the entire system does not interfere with anything on the Master Plan except maybe the edge of the 
flower garden. 
K. Menard made a motion to rescind the vote taken at the last meeting regarding the BoH funding for the septic system 
and the toilet facility. D. Passios seconded. Roll Call V ote, 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
D. Passios - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
D. Passios made a motion to accept the BoH offer to fund the installation of the septic and move forward. K. Menard 
seconded. Roll Call V ote, 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
D. Passios - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
The Commission reviewed and discussed the plan. The concerns and comments are as follows: 
• The septic design is outside of the Master Plan. 
• No pump, system/chamber 
• Septic in the ground but not operational. 
• BoH can’t put in the septic if there is no bathhouse. 
• Funding through the BoH may be lost. 
D. Passios made a motion to accept the BoH offer and move forward with the planning, funding  and construction of the 
septic at Marshall Park as shown on the plan by Dylis and Roy dated February-----, 2022, to include a new toilet facility at 
the location on that plan labeled former bathroom location. Design plan to be modified to accommodate the bath by an 
Engineer and submitted for approval to the BoH And the Conservation Commission. K. Menard seconded. 
Roll Call V ote, 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
D. Passios - yes 
A. Lockwood - no 
All in favor, motion carried. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes August 2, 2022 page  of 53
2. Timeline for installation of septic and facilities with BoH funding. 
D. Passios exited the meeting. 
A. Lockwwood stated no construction of the septic shall be done until funding is secured for the entire septic system and 
toilet facilities. 
C. Sullivan expressed concerns about losing the BoH funding. K. Menard suggested inviting the BoH to a meeting. C. 
Sullivan asked to get clarification from the BoH to what is required. 
Next on the agenda, Discussion regarding joint meeting with the Select Board August 2, 2022. 
C. Sullivan asked what the goal of the joint meeting would be. A. Lockwood indicated tte usefulness of having the support 
of the Select Board, the use of ARPA Funds and it opens the awareness of what the Parks Commission is trying to 
accomplish to a wider audience. 
The Commission discussed doing some outreach. K. Menard will put a presentation together for the joint meeting. 
Next item on the agenda, Wetland Flagging Status 
K. Menard stated the flagging has been completed by Matt Marro. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Survey  IFB Draft Review 
A. Lockwood stated the Town Manage has the draft and is looking for feedback. K. Menard will put together the two 
items, request for the flagging documentation and information from the Conservation Commission. 
Next item on the agenda, Capital Planning 2024 
A. Lockwood met with the Town Manager. The Town Manager indicated B. Bernard was responsible for the Capital Plan 
for the Commission. A. Lockwood stated the Commission could do the leg work for the funding but that would put 
additional work on the Commission. 
K. Menard noted the following projects should be on the Capital Plan; 
• McNally snack shack 
• The Beach House  
• Fitzgerald Park could use a shelter. 
A. Lockwood suggested coming up with a list by priority. K. Menard noted there was a criteria that had to be met to be on 
the Capital Plan,some of those include a useful life of 3 years or more, and the value is $20,000 or greater. 
Next item on the agenda, Capital Planning 10 year outlook. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes August 2, 2022 page  of 54
A. Lockwood stated she had spoken with the Town Manager regarding the rectangular fields. A. Lockwood noted the 
Commission needs to make a case for the fields A. Lockwood suggested making this ten year outlook a Fall project. K. 
Menard stated the two that jump out are the completion of the Marshall Park project and Northfield Park survey. 
Next item on the agenda, Pending work needed to be done in parks and utilization of Google Docs. 
The Commission reviewed and discussed the list in Google, which is shared with B. Bernard and using it as a tool for 
communication. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach closing date 
K. Menard read Jarrod Bowser’s feedback. J. Bowser’s opinion is that the Beach Season should not extend past Labor 
Day, even on weekends. Majority of lifeguards will be back at school before Labor Day. R. Thompson will check on the 
end date for the seasonal staff. 
C. Sullivan suggests leaving the decision to the lifeguards. A. Lockwood would like to stay open one weekend after Labor 
Day. 
The Commission decided to remain open for the Labor Day weekend if staffing was available. 
Next item on the agenda, Recreation Director / DPW Director report/updates. 
R. Thompson indicated Peter Hennessey’s application never came through and that it was an Administrative decision to 
take on no further staff. 
R. Thompson indicated AED and First Aid has been at the Beach since opening. Lifeguards got approval to store 
equipment inside the Beach House after hours. 
R. Thompson stated McNally has irrigation which has a bit of a leak, and would have to be capped for demolition.  
R. Thompson stated he had sent out a memo regarding the public urination, all parties agreed to refrain from doing so. 
R. Thompson stated there was a report of a Porta-potty that had been turned over at Fitzgerald Field, the contracted 
company took immediate care of it. 
R. Thompson noted the Beach House and all the staff have received kudos from the community regarding how much they 
enjoy the staff there. R. Thompson noted there have been approximately 300 beach passes sold, not including family 
passes and individual children. 
A. Lockwood asked R. Thompson to give an overview of revenue and breakdowns at the end of the season. C. Sullivan 
asked about doing exit interviews for additional feedback.  
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission Minutes August 2, 2022 page  of 55
A. Lockwoood asked if the little league was caught up on their fees. R. Thompson stated they were not and he would like 
to have it all resolved by August 1, 2022. A. Lockwood asked if the Porta-potties would be removed August 1, 2022. R. 
Thompson is unsure. 
R. Thompson stated MA Sports will be returning Aug. 1, 2022 for multi-sports events. Wiffle ball is coming up next week, 
July 27th, 5 pm - 6:30 pm and running for approximately 6 weeks. 
R. Thompson stated the cardboard boat race will be back on August 20, 2022.  
A. Lockwood asked about non-residents participating in a free event. K. Menard stated there was no policy in place. 
R. Thompson asked about Treasurer having access to My Rec. K.Menard stated this had been discussed a few years ago 
and the commission opted not to give them access but would like to add to the agenda for the next meeting to discuss 
further.  
A.Lockwood asked if there were any fall sports planned. R. Thompson stated yes, Pickle ball and bocce and working on 
some multi-sports. 
Last item on the agenda, Board Comment  
A. Lockwood stated The Town Manager had asbestos testing done at McNally and has also requested them to test the 
snack shack (old one) and Marshall Park. 
K. Menard noted Wallis Park, basketball courts needs to be addressed, the surface is compromised. 
Next meetings are scheduled for August 2, and 17, 2022 at 7 pm. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to adjourn.K. Menard seconded. Roll Call V ote 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A.Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
 Adjourned: 10:33 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 