===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes October 26, 2022 page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pat Hakey, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Minutes 
October 26, 2022 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Patrick Hakey, Karin Menard and Chris Sullivan  
Absent:  Dave Passios 
Additional Attendees: Paul Visconti 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Minutes 
P. Hakey made a motion to approve the minutes for September 19, 2022. C. Sullivan seconded. 
Roll Call Vote, 
C. Sullivan - yes 
P . Hackey - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
Next item on the agenda, Updates from Facilities Director  
P. Visconti indicated the following: 
• Dillis and Roy had been awarded the bid for Marshall Park. P. Visconti stated he was unsure of the exact 
amount but believes it is under $20,000.00. 
• 5 resumés for the Recreation Director had been received and 4 have indicated they would like to be 
interviewed. Two interviews have been conducted to date. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes October 26, 2022 page  of 42
• The Beach House will be going back out to bid in January with work to start in the spring.The scope of 
the bid is $35,000 which is funded from the operation budget. 
• McNally Park, abatement is complete, stairs have been removed. Demolition of the building will begin. 
A. Lockwood indicated Mr. Lincoln would like to save the sign if possible. 
• Marshall Park Pond and weed control. Solitude Lake Management have done a water test. Temporary 
cost estimate received from Solitude Lake Management were $30,000.00 for the beach. They will be 
Hydroraking and then perform the water treatment. This is a on the Capital plan with $30,000 in this 
year, and money in 2025 for Marshall Pond. 
•
Next item on the agenda, Chair updates 
A. Lockwood gave the following updates. 
• Michael St.Germain offered to make a financial donation to repair the 2 memory benches at Veteran’s 
Park. A. Lockwood will check with the Boy Scouts to see if they will repair the benches. 
• A. Lockwood reached out to Adam Burney to see you they can gain access to Lufa Farms. A. Bernie has 
not heard back from the Conservation Commission. 
• A. Lockwood contacted Dan Lincoln to inform him the building at McNally Park is slated to be 
demolished. D. Lincoln will be replacing the sign around Thanksgiving. 
• P.  Visconti is making progress with the engineering for Marshall Park and the weeds at the Town Beach. 
• Patrick Flaherty has reached out about running a soccer program through the Parks programming. The 
program will run 6 weeks starting in January for 3rd and 5th grades with a maximum of 20 kids. A. 
Lockwood will post to “My Rec”. A. Lockwood suggested a $40 fee per person to cover operating costs. 
C. Sullivan noted foot skill drills will not damage the gym floor. 
Next item on the agenda, Available State grants discussion 
A. Lockwood listed the following available grants: 
• USDA Loan 
• PARC Propgram 
• Land & Water Conservation 
• Mass Trail grant 
• Municipal American Disabilities Improvement Act 
• AARP Community Challenge grant 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes October 26, 2022 page  of 43
A. Lockwood stated she would put together a spreadsheet that would reflect all the pertinent information such 
as when grants open, submission closure dates and, maximum dollar amounts. 
A. Lockwood noted some grants need to get approval at Town Meeting. Some grants also can be used for parts 
of Marshall Park but the engineering needs to be in place to request the grant funding. 
A. Lockwood explained the larger PARC grant is available for towns with 32,000 residents or more or a project 
with 100 or more parking spots so she thinks Marshall Park will fit in that category. K. Menard said if they 
didn’t we could try for the smaller grant up to $100,000. 
Next on the agenda, Park & Recreation facilities discussion 
A. Lockwood opened the discussion noting the need for the Parks Commission to have a dedicated space and 
possibly use the Brooks House. K. Menard stated she would prefer TC Passios building over the Brooks House. 
K. Menard indicated the Beach House would be the logical location, C. Sullivan agreed. 
A. Lockwood stated if the Commission does not request space no one will know it is needed.  
K. Menard feels the Commission does not need a 100% dedicated space. 
K. Menard stated the Select Board should know we are here and we need access to indoor spaces to have 
successful programs. K. Menard stated an office is needed for the Recreation Director. 
A. Lockwood asked K. Menard to drop into a Select Board meeting and add a public comment about the need 
for space. C. Sullivan reiterated the request is not for specific dedicated space. 
Next on the agenda, Special Town Meeting Warrant discussion 
A. Lockwood stated P. Visconti and Katherine of WOLA feel comfortable with the amount of $150-200,000 for 
the complete engineering phase for Marshall Park. A. Lockwood indicated the Town Manager stated there is 
$180,000 available and approximately $10,000 left from the previous request. 
K. Menard will verify with the Town Manager on who will be presenting the Article. K. Menard noted they 
should have a spreadsheet or some slides to help explain the request. A. Lockwood stated she will reach out to 
the community to spread the word. C. Sullivan stated he would work with A. Lockwood to prepare the 
presentation. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Master Plan Need and Desires related to the various engineering phases 
survey. 
C. Sullivan reviewed the survey Commission. A. Lockwood and K. Menard both stated the survey looked good. 
A. Lockwood suggested sending to the Town Manager to post on the Lunenburg Town page and Parks page. A. 
Lockwood will post to “My Rec”. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes October 26, 2022 page  of 44
Next item on the agenda, Board comment 
K. Menard stated Michael Ray indicated there is a Municipal Design meeting November 7, 2022. M. Ray is 
looking for non-members to attend. 
A. Lockwood stated the Select Board will be meeting November 1, 2022 to acknowledge Genevieve Nass and 
asked who could attend. K. Menard, A. Lockwood and, P. Hakey will attend. 
Next meetings are scheduled for November 16, 2022 at 7 pm. 
K. Menard made a motion to adjourn. P . Hakey seconded. Roll Call Vote 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
P . Hackey - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
 Adjourned: 8:57 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 