===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                          Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pat Hakey, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
REVISED Meeting Agenda 
Wednesday, September 14, 2022 
7pm 
Via Zoom     
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg 
Public Access channel and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/
7927370353 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 792-737-0353 # If you have not registered with 
Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.  
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and 
app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. V otes may be taken as a 
result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent 
permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
1. Open meeting 
2. Approval of Minutes 
3. DPW/Town Manager/Recreation Director Updates with Discussion 
4. Chair Update  
5.Updates from Beach Director 
6.Review revised recreation director job description. 
7.Recognition of Gen Nass 30 plus years of service 
8.List of requirements from community for engineering phase  
9.McNally Sign 
10. Site Visits Update and Request for Service from DPW   
11. Water Commission Update Regarding Property Adjacent to McNally Field 
12. Capital Planning Requests: 
•  McNally Restroom facilities 
•  Town beach house / redesign 
•  Engineering - Marshall Park 
13. Town Meeting Warrant -    
•  Engineering - Marshall Park 
14. ARPA Funds 
•Marshall Park Master Plan 
15. Official Commission request to Select Board, Planning board, Conservation Commission to negotiate access to Northfield 
property with an easement from Lufa Farms 
16. Official Parks Commission request to the Conservation Commission for access to Northfield property from the abutting 
conservation property via a new road off of Chase Road  . 
17. Other Business 
 a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting 
 b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment  
18. Next meeting date / agenda 
19. Adjourn
