===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2022 page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pat Hakey, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Park Commission 
August 17, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
Members present:Ana Lockwood, Dave Passios, Karin Menard, Patrick Hakey and Christopher Sullivan  
Absent: None 
Additional Attendees: Rob Thompson 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Board and Public Comment. 
A.Lockwood indicated MRPC will be holding a meeting at the Town Hall  to discuss Lunenburg become an 
age-friendly community. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes. 
K. Menard made a motion to approve the minutes of June 15, 2022 as presented. C. Sullivan seconded. Roll 
Call Vote, 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
D. Passios - yes 
P . Hackey - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
Next item on the agenda, DPW Director Updates 
Bill Bernard submitted a spreadsheet with updates. A. Lockwood reviewed spreadsheet and the updates with 
Commission members. 
Next on the agenda, Recreation Director Updates 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2022 page  of 52
R. Thompson updated the members on the following: 
• The final day for the Town Beach is Sunday August 28, 2022. All parties have been notified to the 
closing date. 
• Exit interviews have been done with half the staff. The general consensus is First Aid and Lifeguard 
equipment need replacing. 
• The Cardboard Boat Race will be held at 6 pm Saturday August 20, 2022. 
• MA Sports starts Monday, August 22, 2022 for 7 - 12 year olds for multi-sports. 
• Little League sent a payment but it got returned in the mail, will resend. 
• Forecasted for the Fall 
◦ Kids Crafts 
◦ Movies 
◦ Air Plants 
◦ Adult Basketball 
◦ Ultimate Frisbee 
◦ Guided Historic walks 
◦ Bike Maintenance/minor repairs 
K. Menard suggested reaching out to Bill Tyler for assistance with hosting Historic walks. 
C. Sullivan indicated the Director of Community Schools has a men's basketball program that starts after Labor 
Day. 
A. Lockwood asked how many were signed up for the boat race. R. Thompson stated 6 people, 2 teams.  
K. Menard asked how many kids were enrolled in camp for next week. R. Thompson stated 7. K. Menard asked 
about the minimum enrollment requirement. R. Thompson stated 10.  
There was discussion on how the programs were being promoted. R. Thompson noted he has had trouble 
navigating Facebook and My Rec. 
K. Menard expressed concerns with programs being canceled and how that reflects poorly on the Parks 
Commission. 
K. Menard suggested asking MA Sports for flexibility with the headcount requirements. 
A. Lockwood asked when the crafting and frisbee were starting. R. Thompson stated crafting will be the second 
week in September and frisbee will be the third week and will run twice a week. 
A. Lockwood asked if R. Thompson was aware that the softball field had been used.  
R. Thompson stated he was unaware. A. Lockwood asked for a letter to be sent to the Little League. 
A. Lockwood asked about the status of the Port-a-Potties at Fitzgerald Field. R. Thompson stated they have 
been removed. 
R. Thompson gave the breakdown of beach pass revenue. 
•76 non-resident day  
•155 resident  
•19 senior resident  
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2022 page  of 53
•2 senior non-resident  
•31 non-resident family  
Total revenue to date $17,979. 
There was discussion on swim lesson fees discrepancies. A. Lockwood asked for an audit report for the sales. R. 
Thompson will send a report. 
Next on the agenda, Beach Director Updates 
J. Bowser stated the second session on swim lessons went well and there have been no changes to the boat race. 
Next item on the agenda, Capital Planning Request for FY24 
A. Lockwood asked the members for their input. 
K. Menard listed her priorities as follows: 
• McNally Park, Snack Shack and bathhouse 
• Veterans Park, landscaping 
• A pocket park at the Town Beach 
• Fitzgerald Field, regrading fields with signage and a shelter 
D. Passios indicated care and maintenance is not appropriate for the Capital Plan.  
• McNally & Fitzgerald both need a vetted proposal before they can be considered for the Capital Plan. 
Would like to see these on a 5 year plan. 
• McNally should be the next large focus and take the steps similar to Marshall Park. 
• Marshall Park should be the main focus. 
• The Town Beach building is a priority. 
D. Passios noted the Parks Commission does not have care and custody of Fitzgerald Field. 
C. Sullivan stated he would like to see the following: 
• Paving and bathrooms at McNally Park. 
• The Northfield property be surveyed. 
• Turn the beach house into a functional space. 
A. Lockwood asked if C. Sullivan was referring to the beach house as a year-round space. 
C. Sullivan stated yes, possibly. 
A. Lockwood listed her priorities as follows: 
• The Northfield property survey. 
• Facilities at McNally Park. 
A. Lockwood asked about surveying McNally Park. D. Passios feels the survey should be the first step. D. 
Passios stated there is easy access to the sewer. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2022 page  of 54
A. Lockwood would like to see the conceptual design and survey for McNally Park combined as one item for 
the Capital Plan. D. Passios agreed with combining the two as long as they reach the $20,000 requirement. A. 
Lockwood will add Fitzgerald and Veteran’s Park to the DPW’s care & maintenance spreadsheet. 
D. Passios noted the beach house is on the ARPA list that the Select Board put together. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Meeting Warrant - discussion on potential Park Commission articles 
The Engineering budget and Marshall Park next phase funding were discussed. 
A. Lockwood indicated the Parks Commission would like to get funding outside of Lunenburg taxpayer money 
such as ARPA and grants. K. Menard stated the Commission needs to be aware of grant deadlines. 
K. Menard would like to put the items on the Capital and the Town Meeting warrant. D. Passios noted 
submission of the Capital Plan articles is before the Town Meeting Warrant. 
A. Lockwood wants to look into getting this funded at the November 15, 2022 Special Town Meeting. D. 
Passios suggested, reaching out to the Town Manager for her guidance to the suggested process. 
A. Lockwood read the Town Meeting notice which indicated the warrant will close on Tuesday, September 20, 
2022 at 5 pm. 
Next item on the agenda,  Marshall Park Survey Invitation for Bid recommendations. 
A.Lockwood noted D. Passios and K. Menard had made suggestions which the Town Manager incorporated. 
D. Passios had concerns with the trees being mentioned and would like to see the Town Manager remove it. 
K. Menard asked what the value is to the Parks Commission by documenting the trees. 
D. Passios suggested removing all tree references. The Schematic design and Engineering will address this 
better. 
D. Passios also suggested the edit of line H regarding the 24 inch caliper. 
D. Passios will send an email with the Commission's concerns. A. Lockwood will meet with the Town Manager 
regarding the concerns. 
D. Passios discussed the wetland flagging with Matt Marro. M. Marro will revisit the flagging and flag the 
entire wetlands if the Commission so choses. 
K. Menard suggested A. Lockwood as an abutter should have a conversation with the Ethics Commission to 
ensure there is no conflict of interest if she votes on things related to Marshall pond. 
K. Menard stated the entire property needs to be delineated. C. Sullivan asked if the flagging is documented. D. 
Passios indicated the Engineer will pick up the flagging when they do their perimeter boundary measurements. 
Next item on the agenda, Other Business 
Correspondence. 
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2022 page  of 55
A. Lockwood stated the Open Space Committee had a meeting and they hired a title company to look into 
Stump Cove. 
D. Passios noted he had a discussion with the Select Board, on the Parks Commission’s behalf regarding ARPA 
funding and received good reception from a few of the members. 
D. Passios also noted he had a conversion with a gentleman from Rural Development, A Federally Funding 
program. There is potential to use this program for the septic system and toilet or the sewer and toilet hook-up at 
Marshall and McNally Parks. 
Next meetings are scheduled for September 14, 2022 at 7 pm. 
K.Menard made a motion to adjourn. D. Passios seconded. Roll Call Vote 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
D. Passios - yes 
P . Hackey - yes 
All in favor, motion carried. 
 Adjourned: 8:57 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 