===PAGE 1===
Park Commission April 13, 2022 Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Ana Lockwood, Member                          Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
Pat Hakey, Member 
April 13, 2022
MINUTES
Members present: Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, Dave Passios, Ana Lockwood and Patrick Hakey.
Absent: none
K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.
First item on the agenda, Board and Public Comment, none.
Next item on the agenda, WOLA Presentation
Kathryn Ostermier from WOLA gave a brief background of the steps taken to get to this phase of the project. 
She reviewed the revised plan from the Alternate One option that was presented at the March 16, 2022 meeting 
for Marshall Park and explained the revisions as follows:
• 90 foot baseball diamond and softball ﬁelds are new. 
• Bleachers at all ﬁelds. 
• An additional walking path was added. 
• There are 3 basketball courts, pickleball and a playground. 
• Dog park replaced the old basketball courts. 
• Pollinator garden has been relocated to the entrances and throughout the park. 
• 38 one way parking space off Chestnut Street. 
• 94 parking space and pedestrian access off Massachusetts Avenue. 
• 2 additional spots off Highland Street. 
• Restrooms and concession with a pavilion. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes - tabled

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission April 13, 2022 Minutes Page  of 42
Next item on the agenda, Recreation Director update.
R. Thompson indicated Viking Sports will be returning to run sports clinics, as well as another company. There 
will be biking tours and mountain biking. Basketball has started.
K. Menard asked if R. Thompson had received baseball schedules. R. Thompson stated he has received a 
schedule from the High School,still waiting on the Little League.
K. Menard asked about outside groups using the ﬁelds. R. Thompson stated an outside group,  Pioneer Park, 
inquired about using the ﬁeld and he is trying to accommodate.
K. Menard asked how much usage they are looking for. R. Thompson stated the group is just looking to do a 
work softball tournament for one day. There was discussion regarding schedule and the use of MyRec. A. 
Lockwood offered her assistance with the website and the My Rec software, 4-8 hours a week. R Thompson 
noted the software is not user friendly.
C. Sullivan indicated there has been a request for adult soccer.
K. Menard inquired about the Little League’s balance on fees owed. R. Thompson noted he is working on 
resolving the monies owed. A. Lockwood requested an email be sent from R. Thompson indicating his goals 
and objectives for the upcoming season.
There was discussion regarding surveys and the need for feedback.
K. Menard discussed with the Commission two items that have come to light recently.
1. The portable toilets at the Little League ﬁeld have been removed by the Board of Health. The Portable 
Toilets were removed from Marshall, McNally & Fitzgerald Fields. K. Menard noted there are policies 
and procedures that the Little League did not adhere too. The Board of Health also requires a Septage 
Haulers License, a plan, contact information and the duration of use. 
2. The snack shack at McNally Park has concerns with the structure. The Building Commissioner is 
scheduled to inspect the building to verify if it can be used this season. 
Next on the agenda, Skate Park request to move the fundraising sign to Marshall Park.
The Commission had a discussion.
D. Passios made a motion to have the sign located near 2A and meet with the bylaw requirements. P . Hakey 
seconded. Roll Call Vote,
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
P . Hakey - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
Next on the agenda, Beach Season - recommendations for hiring, portable facilities and general discussion.
K. Menard indicated there were 2 additional applications for lifeguards submitted. R. Thompson conﬁrmed 
Mason Bowser and Ean Laundree are returning from last season. R. Thompson recommended hiring the two 
applicants.
C. Sullivan made a motion to recommend the hiring and send it to the Town Manager for approval. D. 
Passios seconded.  Roll Call Vote,
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission April 13, 2022 Minutes Page  of 43
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
P . Hakey - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
Next item, Portable facilities.
R. Thompson presented 2 quotes he had received.
The ﬁrst included portable toilets and Jersey Barriers to be located at the old playground area. Each Jersey 
Barrier would cost $300.00/ 10’ unit and 6 would be needed plus a $250 delivery charge. This option would 
include the use if thenDPW and the loss of parking spaces.
The second option would allow for the toilets to be placed at the far end of the beach and require an additional 
gate at approximately $800.00.
Sheldon quote: ADA compliant toilet $450.00 for a 28 day cycle with weekly cleaning. Non-ADA 
toilets $200.00 for a 28 day cycle with weekly cleaning. There is a $50.00 fee for additional cleanings.
Other quote ADA compliant toilet $627.00 for a 28 day cycle with weekly cleaning. Non-ADA toilets 
$397.00 for a 28 day cycle with weekly cleaning. There is a $214.00 fee for a sink.
K. Menard stated the beach staff should have the contact information for the vendor of the portable toilets and 
have the authority to call the vendor if an extra cleaning is needed.
D. Passios made a motion to authorize R. Thompson to contract with the vendor of his choice for 3 portable 
toilets and up to 5 if needed. The preferred location to be at the far end of the beach with a gate to be 
installed. The alternate location to be the fenced area where the playground use to be.C. Sullivan seconded. 
Roll Call Vote,
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
P . Hakey - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
K. Menard requested purchasing umbrellas for the lifeguard stands.
K. Menard indicated that last year swim lesson were $25 per student and $75 per family per session and told 
Rob if any adjustments needed to be made to come back to us at the May meeting. D. Passios noted the AED 
needed for the season is at the DPW. D. Passios suggested contacting the Fire Chief to certify the AED is 
working properly and to have R. Thompson get a quote for a job box to store the AED.
Next item on the agenda, Wallis Park Basketball Court.
K. Menard stated the resurfacing done in 2020 is out of warranty. K. Menard has contacted Northeast Tech to 
view the court and suggest how to repair. D. Passios noted the issue is due to the new surface being placed on a 
old base. R. Thompson stated there is a ﬂoating ﬂoor option for the court. D. Passios stated they should look 
into maintenance ﬁrst.
K. Menard suggested signage for the park showing hours of operation.
Next meeting is scheduled for May 18, 2022 at 7 pm.
D. Passios made a motion to adjourn. C. Sullivan seconded. Roll Call Vote
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission April 13, 2022 Minutes Page  of 44
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
P . Hakey - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
 Adjourned: 9:02 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary