===PAGE 1===
Park Commission March 16, 2022 Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Ana Lockwood, Member                          Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
Pat Hakey, Member 
Park Commission
March 29, 2022
MINUTES
Members present: Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, Dave Passios, Ana Lockwood and Patrick Hakey.
Absent: none
Additional Attendees: Heather Lemieux, Rob Thompson
K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.
First item on the agenda, Board and Public Comment, none.
Next item on the agenda, January 6 amended, January 20, and March 8, 2022
D. Passios made a motion to accept the January 6 as amended, January 20, and March 8, 2022 minutes. A. Lockwood 
seconded. Roll Call vote, All in favor (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, 2022 Beach Season including but not limited to facility, pass and swim lesson fees and hiring.
K. Menard asked H. Lemieux if repairs to the beach house would be able to be done for the upcoming season. K. Menard 
asked if the porch would be able to be used. H. Lemieux stated the covered porch could be usable but the ramp would not 
be.
K. Menard asked what steps would have to be taken to get port-o-potties at the location.
H. Lemieux stated the DPW could secure the vendor for the facility and until there is a new DPW Director, H. Lemieux 
would be the point of contact.
K. Menard asked for the next steps to get this building back up and functioning. M. Lemieux indicated this project had 
come up in the FY 2023 Capital Planning process but the cost estimate was not available at the time and the project got 
pushed off. The cost estimate was received in March and will be going through the procurement process. The cost 
estimate did not include the electrical work. H. Lemieux indicated she is working with an Electrician and noted the scope 
of the work is minimal.

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission March 16, 2022 Minutes Page  of 42
H. Lemieux has contacted an asbestos survey company which has taken samples and should have verbal results next 
week. H. Lemieux stated once the asbestos remediation is complete the construction part of the project could go out to 
bid.
Next item on the agenda, Town Manager/DPW Director/Recreation Director updates.
R. Thompson gave an update with regards to the hiring of Beach Director and lifeguards
Gen Nass had not applied for the Beach Director position.
Elizabeth Simeone has applied and will need to submit a Conﬂict of Interest disclosure if any of the lifeguards are her 
children.
R. Thompson stated four applications have been submitted. All lifeguards are rehires, they are Jarrod Bowser, Ethan and 
Paige Gengler and Nicholas Coronella.
D. Passios made a motion and C. Sullivan seconded to recommend to the Town Manager to move forward with the Select 
Board on the appointments of Elizabeth Simeone as Beach Coordinator and Ethan Gengler, Paige Gengler, Nicholas 
Coronella and Jarrod Bowser.
Roll Call Vote:
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
P . Hakey - yes
K. Menard - yes
R. Thompson suggested keeping the rates for the beach passes the same as last year.
K. Menard indicated the fees for 2021 were $5/ adult and included 3 children 15 years and under, Seniors were $2 per 
Senior or additional child, non-resident $10 per adult and included 3 children 15 years and under, non-resident Senior $5 
per Senior or additional child, resident passes $65 , non-resident $80, resident individual $44, non-resident individual $60, 
$25 for a Senior pass and $35 for a non-resident Senior pass.
Ana Lockwood made a motion to keep the passes at the same rate as last year. C. Sullivan seconded. All in favor. 
Roll Call vote:
C. Sullivan - yes 
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
P . Hakey - yes
K. Menard -  yes
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission March 16, 2022 Minutes Page  of 43
R. Thompson discussed with the Commission the programs for the upcoming season and the ﬁeld usage. The schedule is a 
follows;
Marshall Park ﬁeld - High School and Little League
R. Thompson indicated he was working his way into McNally Park and other areas.
K. Menard stated the Little League minors will also be utilizing McNally Park and Fitzgerald Field is going to be Little 
League as well their instructional softball.
C. Begley stated he was working on putting together schedules. 
R. Thompson discussed youth and teen camps and adventure camps. R. Thompson explained some of the larger Towns are 
allowing non-resident to piggyback onto their large-scale full day programs, this is an option he is looking into this. A. 
Lockwood asked if the location of those programs would be out of Town. R. Thompson stated yes. A. Lockwood feels 
there should be programs offered in Town. R. Thompson noted he is exploring that but this summer will only be satellite 
programs with other towns and cities.
R. Thompson stated there are summer programs in the works such as basketball, soccer, bike tours and mountain biking as 
well as ﬁtness and magic in the park.
Ana Lockwood asked about the plan for programs in the Fall. R. Thompson stated his intentions are to have more robust 
programming going forward for a variety of ages. H. Lemieux stated she has met with R. Thompson to discuss a program 
model. The thought is to start out small and grow. H. Lemieux R. Thompson had reached out to vendors in the past but the 
vendors were unable to come for full day programs. A. Lockwood asked if there were any programs running now. R. 
Thompson stated he attempted to get  badminton up and running.
K. Menard concurred with H. Lemieux and her thoughts on teaming up with the Library and Senior Center for programs.
P. Hakey left the meeting.
Next item on the agenda, discussion, recommendations and feedback to WOLA of the 2 alternative plans presented on 
3/16/2022
K. Menard reviewed with the Commission the next steps and the timeline for Marshall Park.
K. Menard indicated that she would get the feedback from the Commission's meeting tonight and ﬁne tune the option. K. 
Ostermier from WOLA will be meeting with the Town Manage April 11, 2022 and meet with the Commission that same 
week. K. Ostermier’s contract ends May 1, 2022. K. Menard stated cost estimates would be sent along as well as some 
grant information.
K. Menard indicated the general consensus was the Commission like Alternative One with a few tweaks. The Commission 
had a lengthy discussion regarding required amenities and placement.
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission March 16, 2022 Minutes Page  of 44
C. Begley discussed with the Commission his thoughts regarding the plans. C. Begley feels the T-Ball ﬁeld needs to be 
located where it can be fenced in for safety.
The Commission members choice for the plan to move forward with are as follows:
 A. Lockwood, D. Passios and K. Menard prefers Alternative one, C. Sullivan prefers Alternative two. 
The modiﬁcations the members would like to see are as follows:
K. Menard noted the consensus would be T-ball to stay and the option for basketball & pickleball be phased in at some 
point. D. Passios would like to see an additional walking trail and noted the relocation of the sidewalk. K. Menard 
indicated the need to know if the dog park and the trail are ADA compliant. C. Sullivan would like to see Alternative one 
with the addition of a T-ball ﬁeld.
Next meeting is scheduled for April 13, 2022 at 7 pm.
C. Sullivan made a motion to adjourn. A. Lockwood seconded. 
Roll Call V ote
C. Sullivan - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
D. Passios - yes
K. Menard - yes
 Adjourned: 10:11 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary