===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Ana Lockwood, Member                          Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
  
   
Park Commission joint with Select Board 
Tuesday March 8, 2022 
MEETING MINUTES 
1.Chris Sullivan opened the meeting. In attendance remotely: Chris Sullivan, Ana Lockwood, Dave Passios  
2.Mr. Alonzo asked Patrick Hakey of 136 Highland Street, to introduce himself and why he wants to be on the Park Commission. Mr 
Hakey said he has lived in town for 31 years. He was a member of the Fire Department until last year. He works for the Town of 
Maynard as a firefighter. He is married with three children. His kids want to play hockey and last year they began skating at 
Marshall Park. His neighbor, Chris Sullivan, had informed him of the vacancy and he would like to keep the parks the way they 
should be. He said he has also attended the last 2 commission meetings and spoken with the other commissioners. Mr. Hakey was 
asked if he had any agenda getting not the commission and said he did not. And asked if he intended to run for election in May he 
said he did. Chris Sullivan thanked Mr. Hakey for volunteering for the Park Commission. Mr. Passios asked Mr. Hakey if he knew 
what the charge of the Park Commission is according to the Charter and Mass General Law. Mr. Hakey stated he did not know a lot 
about tit but that they were in charge of all the ball fields and parks in town. Ana Lockwood stated she was looking forward to 
working with him and his enthusiasm. 
Select member T. Dwyer motioned and Select member L. Franco seconded to appoint Patrick Hakey to the Parks Commission 
until the third Saturday in May 2022. 
Roll Call V ote: 
Mr. Jeffreys - yes 
Mr. Alonzo - yes 
Mr. Franco - yes 
Mr. Dwyer - yes 
Mr. Sullivan - yes 
Mr. Passios - yes 
Ms. Lockwood - yes 
3. Meeting adjourned at 7:23pm. 
 Roll Call - 
 C. Sullivan - yes 
 A. Lockwood - yes 
 D. Passios - yes
