===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
Town  of  Lunenburg  
Park Commission 
 
Ana Lockwood, Chair 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair 
Karin Menard, Clerk 
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Anita Scheipers, Member 
 
 
508.439.7958 
                    960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
AGENDA 
Wednesday – October 1802023 – 7:00 pm 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg Town Hall 
17 Main Street Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
it will be broadcasted over Lunenburg Public Access channel and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel. 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar 
ID: 909 174 0347. If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No 
participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the 
meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed 
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
1. Open meeting 
2. Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
3. Beach House Work: Removal old carpet work 
4. Capital Plan Projects 
5. Special Town Meeting Warrant 
6. Skate Park Update 
7. NHS Project 
8. Cemetery Request for Field Stones  
9. Marshall Park Renovation: Project Timeline and Discussion  
10. Chair Updates 
11. Approval of minutes 
12. Upcoming Meeting dates 
13. Other Business 
a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting 
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
14. Adjourn 
 