===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg  Park Commission September 20, 2023 minutes  page  of 31
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
    
MINUTES 
September 20, 2023 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, and Colleen Shapiro 
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth, Angela Clement 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
C. Ruth gave the following updates: 
• Working with Lakeview on a maintenance plan for the infields and weeds. 
• Trimmed branches in Veteran’s Park  
Next item on the agenda, Special Olympic Request Use of Fields 
C. Ruth indicated the request was for a few weeks on Sunday mornings about hours or so at 
Fitzgerald.  
C. Ruth asked if the Commission would be willing to waive the fee. 
K. Menard asked if they still needed to supply a certificate of insurance. A. Clement stated she has a 
copy of their liability policy. 
K. Menard made a motion to allow the Special Olympics to use Fitzgerald Field on Sunday mornings for 
six weeks through November 5, 2023. C. Sullivan seconded.  Roll call vote. Motion carried (3-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg  Park Commission September 20, 2023 minutes  page  of 32
C. Ruth indicated there is a large pine tree that is dead and needs to be removed at Veteran’s Park. 
A. Clement gave the following updates: 
• Drafted a rough policy for the TCP gymnasium use. Waiting for Town Manager to review. 
• Final approval was needed for anything going through the gymnasium for programs being 
offered, the Town Manager approved them. 
• Registration is open for paint night for adults and children in October. 
• Snapology is coming back once a week Wednesday afternoons, 2 sessions. 
• Eco Adventures for the junior zookeepers is a family event is upcoming. 
A. Clement stated she has had interest in adult volleyball and an additional pickleball. 
Next item on the agenda, Capital Plan Projects 
A. Lockwood indicated McNally was not funded last year and Northfield should be added to the Capital 
Plan. C. Ruth asked the commission to send over their list and he will talk it over with the Town 
Manager.  
A. Lockwood stated the Skate Park will not be breaking ground until the Spring. A. Lockwood 
suggested possibly re-engineering McNally to fit the T-ball field. K. Menard stated the Commission 
should have a discussion with the Little League and look at the number if participation. C. Shapiro and 
C. Sullivan agree with K. Menard’s statement. 
A. Lockwood stated Fitzgerald Field may not be a property worth improving. A. Lockwood indicated it is 
not technically Parks property. The instructional field is on the abutters property. 
A. Lockwood  asked if McNally is still a priority . C. Sullivan stated it definitely needs improvements. C. 
Ruth suggested the softball field at Fitzgerald be used for t-ball temporarily. 
Next item on the agenda, Beach House Work: Removal old carpet work 
A. Lockwood asked for volunteers to remove the carpet. K. Menard asked C. Ruth for a timeline for the 
work. C. Ruth stated demolition would be great to start in the Fall while the water is still on. C. Ruth 
stated vinyl flooring can be installed in the Spring. 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg  Park Commission September 20, 2023 minutes  page  of 33
K. Menard offered to lead the team. 
Next item on the agenda, Special Town Meeting Warrant 
A. Lockwood indicated the grant application needs a Town Meeting vote for authorization for 
submission of the grant application. A. Lockwood stated a Town Meeting vote is needed to appropriate 
the 100% of the total cost project and to dedicate the land to Chapter 45. 
A. Lockwood stated $184,000 was received at a Town Meeting last year. A. Lockwood indicated ARPA 
funds do not need a Town Meeting vote. 
Next item on the agenda, Skate Park Update 
A. Lockwood indicated the Skate Park will not be breaking ground until the spring. 
Next item on the agenda, Chair updates 
A. Lockwood stated an application for appointment was received, her name is Anita Schiepers. 
There will be a joint meeting with the Select Board October 10, 2023. 
A. Lockwood stated she would like to attend a meeting with the Little League. 
Next item on the agenda,  Approval of minutes 
None 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting, October 18, 2023 at 7 pm. 
 Adjourned: 7:58 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 