===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
       
MINUTES 
August 16, 2023 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan 
Absent:  Colleen Shapiro and Patrick Hakey 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
A. Clement gave the following updates: 
• The last program for the week was canceld due to rain. 
• Beach passes exceed predicted sales. 2500 scanned passes, 490 people and 531 passes sold 
• Swim lessons went well 
• The multi-sports camps and the Nashua River Water Association didn’t do well financially 
• Total revenue was $25,000 - $17,000 in profit 
A. Lockwood asked about feedback on the programs. A. Clement stated she received positive feedback. 
A. Lockwood asked about Fall programs. A. Clement is reaching out to the school for use of the location. 
K. Menard indicated if the lifeguard salaries were over, the revenue from the swim lessons would be used to 
cover the overage. 

===PAGE 2===
Next item on the agenda, Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club: Polar Plunge Fundraiser Collaboration 
M. Belleza, Director of the Boys and Girls Club discussed possibly partnering with the Parks Commission on a 
Polar Plunge. 
C. Sullivan would support opening up the beach for the event and possible other groups if the capacity allows. 
K. Menard stated she is also in support. A. Lockwood suggested starting small and opening it up to other 
groups in the future. 
K. Menard made a motion to support the Boys & Girls efforts to work with the Parks for a Polar Plunge. C. 
Sullivan seconded.  Roll call vote.Motion carried (3-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
C. Ruth gave the following updates: 
• Sand is on the beach and working with Lakeview to put together a regular maintenance plan. 
• Curbing has been repaired. 
K. Menard had mentioned there has been some complaint about the left side of the building and the benches 
on the section of Waterfront by Arrive Lunenburg which is under the Select Board. 
A. Lockwood suggested a movie night in the park in the fall. 
A. Lockwood asked if there was a place to hold a bonfire. K. Menard indicated Parks does not have a location. 
C. Ruth suggested Marshall Park when the Skate Park starts to cut trees. 
Next item on the agenda, Beach House Work 
A. Lockwood asked if the materials for the house would be approximately $5000. C. Ruth was unsure he did 
not have the numbers in front of him but felt $6000 was a safe number if they had volunteers. 
Next item on the agenda, Update from meeting with Green Community Committee regarding the Marshall Park 
Renovation Project 
K. Menard stated they primarily help for upgrade with lighting, appliances, etc. 
  
Next item on the agenda,  Naming Policy Review Draft, discussion, and possible vote  
K. Menard reviewed the draft with the Board. C. Shapiro suggested a maintenance statement should be added 
to the section determining the location of a memorial item. 
===PAGE 3===
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the naming policy for the Parks Commission as written. 
K. Menard seconded. Roll call vote. Motion carried (3-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
Next item on the agenda,  Chair updates 
A. Lockwood indicated the State visited Marshall Park with regards to the grant and he was very 
complimentary. 
A. Lockwood stated P. Hakey has resigned for the Commission, he does not have the time dedicate. A. 
Lockwood appreciated the time he put in and thanked him. 
Next item on the agenda,  Approval of minutes 
None 
Next meeting, September 20, 2023 at 7 pm. 
 Adjourned: 8:16 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 