===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 17, 2024 minutes Page  of 15
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         25 Memorial Drive 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Anita Schiepers, Member 
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
January 17, 2024 
MINUTES 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, and Anita Schiepers 
Absent: Colleen Shapiro 
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Capital Plan Projects Updates 
A. Lockwood stated the Town Manager indicated the Wallace Park Basketball courts have come in at 
number 10 under the Capital Planning Committee projects. A. Lockwood noted the Committee will be 
able to fund up to number 10 priority. 
Next item on the agenda, Budget Priorities for FY2025 
K. Menard suggested more maintenance of the fields. A. Lockwood indicated the landscape contract 
expires this year and we will have to put together a new RFP. 
A. Lockwood would like to increase the Recreation Director’s hours from 19 to between 26 and 32 
hours. 
The Commission discussed and determined 28 hours would be a good amount of hours. 
A. Lockwood would like to hire a part-time seasonal worker for the non-summer months and use 
revolving funds to pay for the position. K. Menard noted a seasonal employee works 20 weeks. A. 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 17, 2024 minutes Page  of 25
Schiepers stated there needs to be a job description and a rate of pay. A. Schiepers stated this would 
need to go through the Town Manager. 
 Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
 A. Clement gave the following updates: 
•Working on lifeguard training and job posting. 
•Would like to know specifically who is doing swim lessons, lifeguarding etc. 
•Pickleball and volleyball had a great turnout. 
•Possibly run youth pickleball and volleyball programs. 
•STEM program is scheduled for February vacation, 4 registrations received 
•Yoga for adults has been pretty successful 
K. Menard suggested looking at the pay scale for the lifeguards. 
C. Sullivan stated basketball should be over in March and that may free up gym space at Primary or 
Turkey Hill. 
A. Lockwood suggested possibly running programs on the weekends and using the temporary 
workers. 
A. Lockwood suggested working on scheduling soccer. 
A. Clement noted the area at the beach where they put reclaimed sand, which she is planning to 
utilize. 
Next item on the agenda, “Carry in, Carry out” policy 
A.Lockwood indicated the Select Board is looking to make an environmental policy. The policy would 
have trash and recycling barrels at all town properties. 
The question posed to the Commission is, would they consider changing the “Carry in, Carry out” 
policy if the environmental policy is created? 
K. Menard expressed concerns with the parks being the biggest ones hit by the change.  
A. Lockwood felt the “Carry in, Carry out” policy could be changed if funding came with the change. 
C. Sullivan expressed concerns about barrels not being utilized properly and recycling not being 
separated. 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 17, 2024 minutes Page  of 35
Next item on the agenda, Dredging Grant 
A. Schiepers asked the category of the grant this would fall into. A. Lockwood stated Eco-System 
Health. 
C. Sullivan offered to assist with the grant. 
A. Schiepers asked about the deadline. K. Menard stated March 1, 2024. 
A. Schiepers will take the lead with the grant. K. Menard will send over information she has already 
obtained. 
Next item on the agenda, Skate Park Agreement 
A. Lockwood updated the Commission with the following: 
•The park is not required to have a Site Plan Review by the Planning Board 
•No building permit is required per the Building Inspector. 
K. Menard asked if there was a timeline for construction they could follow. A. Lockwood stated not 
from the Building Department. 
A. Schiepers stated someone needs to oversee the project and asked if it were possible to reach out 
to the DPW. A. Lockwood suggested speaking to C. Ruth as he has a background in construction. 
A. Schiepers asked that the Skate Park to provide certification to the town verifying the facility has 
been constructed under all the specifications and requirements.  
K. Menard asked who would be the person to inspect the facility. A Schiepers asked if the Towns 
insurer would be the correct party. 
A. Lockwood believes the concrete certification should be submitted. A. Lockwood will reach out to 
Greg Roy to verify what the exact certification is. 
Vote to authorize the contract agreement, tabled. 
Next item on the agenda, Youth Baseball League Request to place “Registrations Are Open” banner 
at Marshall Park entrance. 
A. Schiepers asked to have them verify they comply with the sign bylaw. A. Lockwood stated the 
banner is the same as the one allowed at the Skate Park. 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 17, 2024 minutes Page  of 45
C. Sullivan made a motion to allow them to place the banner at Marshall Park and if they so 
choose to also place one at McNally or Reservoir. A. Schiepers seconded. All in favor, motion 
carried (4-0). 
Next item on the agenda, Trails Grant 
K. Menard stated the grant is due February 1, 2024. K. Menard indicated she needs permission from 
the group to submit the grant and the public land manager to be assigned. 
K. Menard made a motion that the Commission grant approval for the Trails Grant submission 
of the application. C. Sullivan seconded. All in favor, motion carried (4-0). 
Next item on the agenda, Discussion about 0 Whalom Road 
A. Lockwood indicated an interest in approaching the ZBA to inform them Parks had an interest in the 
land. 
A. Lockwood stated there was a deed created for this parcel. C. Sullivan indicated he was in favor of 
pursuing the parcel. 
A. Schiepers asked if A. Lockwood was looking for the owners to gift the parcel to the town.  
A. Lockwood stated yes. 
The Commission agrees this is worth looking into. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Renovation: Review updated cost estimate 
A. Lockwood noted the two biggest cost jumps were a lot of additional earthwork throughout and 
part of the boardwalk was going to be compact gravel but turned out to be mostly boardwalk. 
A. Lockwood stated she is having trouble with the RFQ. A. Schiepers suggested reaching out to the 
Inspector General’s office. 
A. Lockwood also noted the stormwater management and parking at Chestnut were extra costs. 
Next item on the agenda, Discussion about the Lake Shirley Parcels 
===PAGE 5===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 17, 2024 minutes Page  of 55
A. Lockwood feels Parks should pursue getting the titles for the parcels. A. Schiepers feels the Select 
Board should put the task of pursuing clear titles on the existing AdHoc Land Use Committee as 
Parks does not have the resources. 
A. Schiepers suggested A. Lockwood reach out to the AdHoc Committee. 
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates 
There are no Open Space updates. 
K. Menard stated the Master Plan Steering would have a series of meetings on February 1, 2024, 
from 4 pm - 6 pm and 6:30 pm - 8:30 pm at the Senior Center, both sessions are the same. 
Next item on the agenda, Chair updates 
A. Lockwood stated baseball reached out to talk about the upcoming season. They were looking to 
use other locations that were not owned by Parks. A. Lockwood stated C. Ruth will put in a request to 
Town Manager for T-ball to use the Ritter Field. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes - none 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting, February 21, 2024 at 7 pm. 
Public Comment 
D. Passios noted that at last night’s Board of Selectmen meeting they signed off on a grant for the 
Historical Commission which will give them funding to continue a project that was started 10 years 
ago. The project is an inventory of historical sites in town. 
The Historical Commission will also be moving forward to document all historical locations in town, 
the cave was mentioned. 
 Adjourned: 9:24  pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 