===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes February 29, 2024 page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Anita Scheipers, Member 
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
February 29, 2024 
MINUTES 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, 
and Anita Schiepers 
Absent: Colleen Shapiro 
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
C. Ruth indicated he has been working on the budget. 
A. Lockwood read the list of updates received from A. Clement. 
The following is the Spring schedule: 
•Youth MASports League, multi-sport 9 am - noon. 
•Snapology 12:30 pm - 3:30 pm. 
•Adult Pickleball intermediate Tuesday 5 pm - 6:30 pm, beginner 6:30 - 8 pm and Wednesday 
beginner 3 pm - 4:30 pm. 
•Volleyball intermediate 6 pm - 7:30 pm Thursday. 
The following is the Summer schedule: Youth  
•Snapology 
•Working on a clay-making class, Police academy, RED kids, soccer, and good picking farm. 
Adults: 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes February 29, 2024 page  of 52
•Volleyball 
•Sunset Beach Yoga 
Next item on the agenda, Budget Discussion for FY2025 
C. Ruth indicated the budget would increase the Recreation Director’s hours from 19 to 28 and 
additional money for landscaping costs. 
A. Lockwood expressed concerns about the programming and the Senior Center line items being 
level-funded and would like C. Ruth to reiterate that to the Town Manager. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach House Work: Set timeline 
K. Menard indicated she is working on this and would like to review her schedule with C. Ruth. 
Next item on the agenda, Skate Park Agreement 
A. Lockwood stated the Skate Park group agreed that the concrete would meet ACI standards. A. 
Lockwood noted they would also have 4 random tests for the 15 loads of concrete, done through a 
third party. 
C. Ruth stated the industry standard in 1 test for every 50 cubic yard and feels confident with the 
testing to be done. 
A. Lockwood asked the Committee if Town Council is comfortable with the agreement and the 
insurance would they feel comfortable to have the Chair sign on their behalf? The committee agreed 
for the Chair to represent. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach Fees: Discussion 
A. Lockwood reviewed the fee schedule from 2021. A. Lockwood noted that $20,000 is budgeted for 
beach salaries. Fees collected help offset the cost of salaries and maintenance. 
A. Lockwood suggested some small incremental changes. 
Daily pass for residents and non-residents 
K. Menard suggested an increase to $30 per child per session for swim lessons, respectively $60 and 
capped at $90 per family. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes February 29, 2024 page  of 53
C. Sullivan feels swim lessons should be self-funded and the non-resident pass fee should increase. 
A. Lockwood suggested an increase of a $1 for the day pass.  
The following is the suggested new fees for 2024 
•Season pass to remain the same rate 
•Resident daily pass 2 adults and 3 children $6, additional children $3 
•16-18 years of age $3 
•Seniors $3 
• non-resident daily pass adult and 3 children $12, additional children $6 
•16-18 years of age $6 
•Seniors $6 
•Swim lessons to increase to $30, 60 and capped at $90. 
A. Schiepers made a motion to accept the revised rates. K. Menard seconded All in favor, motion 
carried (3-1). 
Next item on the agenda, Request change of address for Marshall Park from Chestnut Street to Mass 
Ave. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to pursue the change to Mass Ave. K. Menard seconded. All in 
favor, motion carried (4-0). 
Next item on the agenda,” Lunenburg Night at Whalom Park” 
A. Lockwood suggested having a community event at Lake Avenue. A. Schiepers asked about 
parking. A. Lockwood indicated possibly using the surrounding parks and businesses and use 
shuttles 
A. Lockwood suggested the possibility of fireworks, a good display could run $12,000. 
A. Schiepers feels this is a good plan. K. Menard is in support of the event. A. Lockwood will discuss 
with Angela the possibility of this opportunity in the future. 
Next item on the agenda, Discussion about the Lake Shirley Parcels 
Chris, of Shady Point Campground proposed an offer to open up their ramp for kayaks and non-
motorized boats. Shady Point has trash and bathroom facilities. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes February 29, 2024 page  of 54
Public Comments 
J. Swenson stated he is satisfied with the direction Chris from Shady Point is going. 
A. Lockwood suggested Chris follow up with the Select Board and if they don’t move forward, then 
follow up with Parks. 
Next item on the agenda, Earth Day Celebrations  
A. Schiepers will reach out to C. Shapiro 
Next item on the agenda, NHS Project 
C. Sullivan stated he has reached out to Body via email but has not heard back. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Renovation: Funding Timeline 
A. Lockwood stated the RFQ went out for OPM and 28 have been received. The proposals will be 
back to Parks on March 13, 2024. A. Lockwood suggested meeting on March 20, 2024, to discuss 
and decide who to invite for an interview. A. Lockwood noted the Town Manager will remove the 
proposals that did not meet the requirements. 
A. Lockwood indicated the interview will be March 27, 2024. A. Lockwood noted the Commission has 
a week after that to make a decision. 
A. Lockwood stated this project is funded through a half-million-dollar grant from the State which will 
cover the pavilion, playground, basketball court, 3 pickleball courts, and play area. Also a million 
dollars from ARPA. 
A. Lockwood suggested reapplying next year if the Commission was not awarded the Land and Water 
Conservation million-dollar grant . 
Next item on the agenda, Dredging Grant 
A. Schiepers gave the following updates: 
Working on finalizing the grant application which would allow for necessary work at the Town Beach 
and the pond at Marshall Park. 
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission Minutes February 29, 2024 page  of 55
The Town Beach work would consist of removing the dark-colored vegetation in the beach areas. 
The goal for the pond at Marshall Park is to repair the water elevation and remove vegetation. 
The grant, just shy of $700,000 is to put together a proper design and construction for dredging and 
hydro raking at both locations. 
Next item on the agenda, Update: 0 Whalom Road 
A. Lockwood indicated she approached the owners of the lot. The owners stated they are not willing 
to give the lot to the Town. A. Lockwood said that if the owner goes in front of the ZBA for any 
approval they could put this out as an option. 
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates 
K. Menard stated the Master Plan Steering would have a meeting on March 7, 2024 at 6 pm. 
A. Lockwood indicated Open Space discussed Shady Points offer and the Commission decided to 
ask to transfer the property to Parks. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes October 18 & December 6, 2023. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the minutes. A. Lockwood seconded. All in favor, motion carried 
(4-0). 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting, March 20 & 27, 2024 at 7 pm. 
Comments: 
C. Sullivan stated the Little League is looking to move the T-ball and has discussed with the Select 
Board to move it to the old primary school property. 
 Adjourned: 9:08  pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 