===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission October 23, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member  
October 23, 2024
MINUTES
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Tim Lawless, Colleen Shapiro, and Christopher Sullivan
Absent: None
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement, Recreation Director and Chris Ruth, Facilities Director
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Budget Reports
A. Scheipers would like to get an update on the budget and asked how frequently they should be received. K. 
Menard suggested bi-monthly or quarterly and a report before year-end.
Next item on the agenda, Recreational Director Updates
A. Clement indicated she would close the building on Monday and Wednesday and would need help on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays. Pickleball may run on Tuesdays.
A. Clement gave the following updates:
• Pickleball will be starting soon.
• V olleyball will be on Thursdays.
• Another painted goat and clay session will run.
• Possibly running a 5-week Snapology, will speak with the person in charge.
• Pickleball will run in December

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission October 23, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 52
A. Clement will start to reach out to the lifeguards. A. Clement indicated she would need someone else to be 
WSI Certiﬁed.
A. Scheipers asked about the All Vendor fair in the spring. A. Clement was thinking of having it at the 
beginning of May. T. Lawless asked where this was taking place. A. Clement stated Memorial Drive would be 
shut down, and utilizing the TCP gym, and the cafeteria area for bathrooms. 
A. Clement indicated that the library is interested in participating, and the Boys and Girls Club would like to 
hold a Touch-a-Truck event.
A. Clement stated the potential date is May 10 or 17, 2024, both are Saturdays. C. Sullivan reminded A. 
Clement to be aware of soccer and parking that day.
A. Clement would like to have the date set in stone for the next meeting.
Next item on the agenda, Boys and Girls Club Polar Plunge - Katie White
K. White stated the event was approved for Saturday, November 30, 2024, between noon and 2 pm.
K. White indicated she has outstanding issues. She needs a waiver from the town and is working on their 
waiver. K. Menard will work on getting the town waiver to K. White.
K. White asked how far in advance Parks would need the waiver, K. Menard stated they could sign the day off 
and have someone there to verify everything is received.
K .White asked about the number of lifeguards required for cold-water swims. K. Menard asked what the Fire 
Chief’s response was to the event. K. White indicated the Fire Chief stated he would have people there. K. 
White was unsure the capacity in what the Fire Department can provide for emergency services.
K. White will go back and speak to the Fire Chief.
A. Scheipers asked if there would be an area cordoned off to limited how deep or far out they could go. 
K .White asked about the buoys. K. Menard stated they were out for the season. K. White asked if there was a 
way to put the buoys back in the water. K. Menard explained it was a long process and not feasible. A. Clement 
noted there is a landmark you can see where the buoys are usually located.
K. White reiterated they were allowed to use the beach house as long as its a take-in in take-out situation and no 
trash was left. K. Menard reminded K. White the water is off and the bathrooms are shutdown.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission October 23, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 53
K. White asked about locking and unlocking the building. K. Menard stated she would be there to open and 
close.
Public Comment:
David Rodgers, 82 Highland St. - Mr. Rogers suggested obtaining an American Flag and a 100% disabled 
Veteran ﬂag and reciting the Pledge of Allegiance before all meetings.
 K. Menard noted that the Commission has invested many hours in the Marshall Park project and feels the 
project should be paused at some point. The previous estimates received were wrong; the new estimate is higher 
than the projected funding amounts.
K. Menard read her letter and explained the cost differences. The letter is attached.
A. Scheipers stated it appears that the Select Board will not be in favor of the warrant article.
A. Scheipers noted the Parks Commission does not have enough funds for phase one.
T. Lawless asked if phase one was $5.2 million.  A. Scheipers stated the $1.6 million was for design and 
construction. A. Scheipers indicated after all invoices were paid there was $1.22 million remaining.
T. Lawless asked how the project went from 5 to 10 to 14 million.
K. Menard stated the $5.2 million was received in the conceptual design before test pits were dug. K. Menard 
indicated when the test pits were done they discovered there was a lot of drainage work to be done which 
increased the cost signiﬁcantly.
K. Menard feels the Commission does not have a good enough funding plan currently.
C. Sullivan made a motion to pass over the Article related to Marshall Park. K. Menard seconded. All in favor, 
motion carried (5-0).
The Commission had discussion about completing the design and other elements of the project with the money 
that has been allocated.
Dave Rogers stated he has lived in Lunenburg for 50 years and raised a lot of money but is far from what the 
Commission is speaking about.
D. Rogers feels it will be difﬁcult to get traction for $14 million. D. Rogers asked home much money the 
Commission had for the project. K. Menard indicated $1 million of APRA money.
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission October 23, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 54
D. Rogers asked how much was raised and appropriated at the Town Meeting for the design phase. K. Menard 
stated $182,000 and another for $50,000 and $25,000. A. Scheipers stated the remaining funds are $142,000.
D. Rogers asked how much was spent. A. Scheipers stated the Commission was committed to no more than $ 
250,000 for the OPM ﬁrm and no more than $143,000 for the design ﬁrm.
K. Menard noted those funds have not all been expended.
A. Scheipers stated they will have to immediately inform the baseball, softball, and Little League that the 
construction will not be moving forward in the spring and the ﬁelds will be available.
C. Sullivan made a motion to let them know the ﬁelds will be available in the spring. C. Shapiro seconded. 
Motion carried (4-1).
A. Scheipers will contact the OPM and the designer for feedback and to get a ﬁgure for the cost of the rest of 
the work and their fees.
The next meeting will be held November 6, 2024.
A. Clement presented invoices for approval.
K. Menard made a motion to approve the Skanska invoice ending in #55453 for $10,790.
C. Sullivan seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0).
K. Menard made a motion to approve the RDLA invoice #2455-01 for $5,721.
C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0).
Next item on the agenda, Properties on Tax Taking list – discussion as to whether the Commission has interest
K. Menard discussed the following properties:
• 14 Sunset Ave
• 82 Valley Road
• 104 Leominster Shirley Road
• 2 parcels on Massapoag Pond, landlocked and swampy 
The Commission has no interest in these properties.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
===PAGE 5===
Lunenburg Park Commission October 23, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 55
A. Scheipers will meet with the Finance Committee to explain the motions taken and discussion regarding 
Article 15, debt authorization for Marshall Park.
Also, changing the revolving fund, Article 10.
Board comment: None
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes
None
Next item on the agenda, Next Meeting November 6, 2024.
Public comment: none
Adjourned: 8:56 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary