===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes September 18, 2024 page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tim Lawless, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
September 18, 2024 
MINUTES 
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Tom Lawless, Colleen Shapiro, and Christopher Sullivan 
Absent: None 
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement, Katie White,  and David Passios 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Capital Projects Discussion 
Next item on the agenda, Recreational Director Updates 
A. Clement indicated she requested using a classroom for programs. 
A. Clement gave the following updates: 
• Monday art programs are running 
• Monday adult art programs are running 
• Wednesday is Snapology 
• Pickleball sessions for November 6th are both sold out 
• Discussed with C. Ruth adding a QR Code to the signage and looking at the liability of an ice rink. 
A. Clement asked if the Commission could help with closing the TCP building on Wednesdays and also asked 
for feedback on signage. 
C. Sullivan suggested adding signage at Marshall Pond, “Skate At Your Own Risk”. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes September 18, 2024 page  of 42
T. Lawless suggested adding call 911 at McNally Park 
C. Sullivan suggested adding the dog policy. A. Clement suggested adding QR Code also. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Invoice Approvals 
A. Scheipers suggested the Commission discuss how to process invoices. A. Clement stated it could take a week 
to a week and a half to get the vendor in the system and all sign-off before moving to accounting. 
A. Scheipers asked A. Clement to get the W-9 from RDLA and Skanska to get them into the system as approved 
vendors. 
A. Scheipers stated she will ask Skanska and RDLA to email invoices to A. Clement and copy the Chair and C. 
Ruth. 
A. Scheipers suggested putting an agenda item for all future meetings for the review of invoices. 
A. Scheipers suggested making a motion to appoint the chair and another member to be the signatory for the 
Commission on an as-needed basis. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the invoices and appoint  A. Scheipers and K. Menard as the 
representatives to approve and sign invoices. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
A. Scheipers presented the invoice from August 2, 2024, invoice number ending in 15484-1 from Skanska in the 
amount of $13,955.00. 
K. Menard made a motion to approve. C. Sullivan seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
A. Scheipers presented the invoice from September 6, 2024, invoice number ending in 15517-2 from Skanska in 
the amount of $11,660.00. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve. K. Menard seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
Next item on the agenda, Boys and Girls Club Polar Plunge - Katie White 
K. White gave an update to the questions the Commission had last meeting. K. White indicated there were two 
beaches one owned by the Town and the other owned by  Arrive Lunenburg. 
K. Menard stated if the event was held at the Town beach permission would come from the Commission. If the 
event is held at the other location K. White would have to go through Arrive Lunenburg. 
K. White has reached out to the Fire Chief for emergency services feedback. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes September 18, 2024 page  of 43
K. White spoke about doing the plunge in small groups at a time. 
K. Menard suggested asking what their weed situation is at Arrive Lunenburg. The town beach has a bit of a 
weed problem. 
K. White asked if she could use the standard waiver from the town. K. Menard stated she would get that over to 
her. The waiver is only needed if it is at the town beach. 
K. Menard noted the beach house is available but the water will be off, therefore there are no bathroom 
facilities. 
K. White asked if Dunkin Donuts were to donate beverages could they set up inside the beach house? K. 
Menard stated yes. 
K. White stated they are still slated for November 30, 2024. 
Next item on the agenda, Grant Updates 
A. Scheipers indicated they have received tentative approval for the Land and Water Grant for one million 
dollars. This is conditional until the contract gets signed after the Town Meeting commits the funds to it. 
K. Menard still has the ADA outstanding, has not heard on that. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Designer Contract 
A. Scheipers stated the RDLA is officially on board and they have already started working. 
A. Scheipers indicated they will have design team meetings every other Thursday with RDLA, Skanska, and C. 
Ruth, A. Scheipers and K. Menard will attend when able. 
Next item on the agenda, Special Town Meeting Articles  
A. Scheipers discussed and reviewed Article 5, Mashall Park. 
A. Scheipers discussed and reviewed Article 9, Revolving Fund change from 53d to 53e and a half, and 
increasing the dollar limit for FY25 to $77,000. 
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates  
None. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes September 18, 2024 page  of 44
Board comment:  
C. Sullivan indicated he attended a 300th Anniversary meeting, just a preliminary brainstorming meeting 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes 
C. Sullivan made a motion to accept the minutes of February 29, March 27, July 16 & 31, and August 14, 2024 
as presented. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
Next item on the agenda, Next Meeting October 23, 2024. 
Public comment: none 
Adjourned: 8:25 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary