===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg - Park Commission 
 
Anita Scheipers, Chair 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair 
Karin Menard, Clerk 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member 
  
 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
508.439.7958 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
AGENDA  
Wednesday – December 18, 2024 – 7:00 pm 
Ritter Building, Lower Conference Room - 960 Massachusetts Ave, Lunenburg, MA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and it 
will be broadcasted over Lunenburg Public Access channel and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel.  This 
meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in -
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy 
to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, 
unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should 
make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly.  
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To 
Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  
 
Meeting ID:  
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347?omn=87055032063 , or from a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-4499 
and enter Meeting ID:  909 174 0347.   If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail 
address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “rais e hand” feature to request to speak.   
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting , and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed  
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open  Meeting Law. 
1) Facilities Director Update - with 1st  report of status of Parks accounts from 7/1 to  date 
2) Recreation Director Update 
3) Spring All Vendor Fair Updates 
4) Marshal Park User Fees - next steps 
5) Beach Staff Analysis - discuss process and timing 
6) Marshall Park Updates 
     Chris Ruth Project Manager Assignment by Interim Town Manager 
     ARPA Funds status 
      Little Free Library Request 
             Other 
7) Grant Updates / Request for grant writer assistance to BoS  
8) Invoices to be approved 
9) Earth Day Cleanup – does the Commission want to be involved formally 
10) Master Planning Committee assignment 
11) Chair Updates 
12) Commission Member Updates 
13) Approval of Minutes 
14) Upcoming Meeting Dates 
15) Other Business: Board General Comments, Public Comments,  Other business matters that may legally come before the       
Commission not known at the time of posting, Correspondence and Announcements 
16) Adjourn 
