===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission March 27, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 31
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Ana Lockwood, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
March 27, 2024 
MINUTES 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, Colleen Shapiro
and Anita Scheipers
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Appointment: 7:00 pm - Presentation and interview with Skanska
Dell Caldwell, Tom DeLiddo, Jerry Albert, Kayla, and Catherine gave their presentation. They touched on 
questions regarding the following: 
• $8.5 million budget 
• Designer selection or existing 
• Design review and field materials 
• Irrigation 
• Sod versus loam 
• Boardwalk product/system 
• Procurement process for the building 
• Quality control 
• Communication and coordination 
A. Lockwood asked about the staff changeover during the process. D. Caldwell stated no.
A. Scheipers asked the applicant about the complications Parks was facing with the park.
T. DeLiddo stated the area was wet. C. Ruth indicated there was a lot of ledge and would require blasting. D. 
Caldwell suggested the possibility of raising the elevation.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission March 27, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 32
C.  Sullivan asked what is the biggest challenge an OPM faces. D. Caldwell stated budgets.T. DeLiddo stated 
utility company and quality of drawing.
D. Caldwell asked what Parks is looking for from the OPM. A.Scheipers stated someone to work closely with 
the Parks Commission
Next item on the agenda, Appointment: 7:45 pm - Presentation and interview with Atlantic Construction & 
Management, Inc. (ACMI).
Steven Sarash, on-site manager and Jennifer, Project Director
- noted the concession stands were missing on the plan. A. Lockwood noted they were modular.
-noted Chapter 149 would allow for stick-built buildings and Chapter 30b would cover the modular.
-indicated using Chapter 30b and getting the infrastructure in place while procuring the modular.
• They spoke about the bid processes and options. 
• Possibility of having plaques with the contractors and sponsors to cut costs 
• The schematic design does not address the skate park 
ACMI questioned whether there would be phasing of the project. A. Lockwood explained that was the process 
for the schematic design because of the funding and grants.
Next item on the agenda, Appointment: 8:30 pm - Presentation and interview with NV5
Frank, Principal in charge; Maria Hernandez, Assistant Project Manager;  Tim Program Director, and Ken 
Grezelle, On-site Project Manager. 
Frank indicated they would steer the project.
Frank noted they reviewed the schematic design and had questions regarding the following: 
• Phasing 
• Funding 
• Sequencing the work 
A. Lockwood noted the cost of the project is $8.5 million based on the schematic design. Town Meeting in the 
Fall approved the funding needed to move forward with grants. 
K. Menard noted there is water at the park location. C. Ruth indicated there is ledge on the Mass. Ave side of 
the park.
A. Lockwood noted Parks has $1.5 million ready to spend.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission March 27, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 33
Tim will be assisting with permitting and interacting with the Conservation Commission. 
M. Herandez stated she would do community outreach, update the website, flyers, post minutes, and handle 
the contract documents.
Tim asked if they were continuing with the current contractors. K. Menard indicated WOLA was just used for 
the design. A.Lockwood the Parks process is design, bid, and build.
A. Scheipers indicated there is a portion of the site the local Historic Commission is very interested in the 
cave’s preservation.
Tim explained they have run into these type of difficult aspects and he works closely with all parties involved.
C. Sullivan indicated the skate park is a separate entity and will be gifted to the town at the end of the project.
Frank asked about a dog park. K. Menard noted a dog park is earmarked but the grant funding doesn’t open 
until the end of the year.
Frank asked about the scoreboard. A. Lockwood the scoreboard is a memorial and will remain.
A. Lockwood asked how big their Boston firm is. Frank stated over 200 but the OPM division has only 14.
C. Ruth asked about document control running through NV5 or will they be using software.
Frank indicated the best interest is for them to control the meeting and the documents.
A. Lockwood asked if there would be team changes. Frank indicated not without discussion.
Frank asked if the DPW would be maintaining the park. C. Ruth indicated the Facilities Director oversees the 
park and subs out the landscaping.
Next item on the agenda, Discussion and potential vote on OPM rating list
The Commission deliberated.
A. Scheipers made a motion to select the OPM as Skanska first, NV5 second, and Atlantic third.K. Menard 
seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0)
 Adjourned: 9:46 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary