===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission June 25, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 31
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tim Lawless, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
June 25, 2024
Ritter Building
MINUTES
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, and Christopher Sullivan
Absent: none
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update
C. Ruth gave the following updates:
• Beach house ﬂoor and trim are complete. The sand clean-up was done to get ready for the opening on June 24th. 
• Wallace Park woodchips added and cutting a tree. 
• New Landscapers starting July 1, 2024. 
• Marshall Park waiting on the manhole covers. 
K. Menard asked if the Phillies are playing there this summer. C. Ruth stated yes.
A. Scheipers asked if there were anything to relay to A. Clement.
C. Sullivan indicated he spoke to A. Clement regarding organizing a Couch to 5k.
A. Scheipers stated she had spoken with A. Clement regarding getting a few National Honor Society kids to help with 
programming or clean up of programming.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission June 25, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 32
C. Shapiro noted NHS hours do not count over the summer.
C. Shapiro indicated 70 chairs were donated for use at the programs.
Next item on the agenda, Naming of the Beach House
K. Menard stated she had been approached by a few individuals suggesting the Beach House be named and memorialized 
after Genevieve Nass. K. Menard noted last year the Beach House was in no condition to be named after anybody. K. 
Menard indicated G. Nass’s daughter, granddaughter, and 2 grandsons are currently employed at the beach.
K. Menard made a motion to rename the Beach House in memory of Genevieve Nass to the Genevieve Nass Memorial 
Beach House. C. Sullivan seconded. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Repurpose T-ball ﬁeld as Dog Park
A. Scheipers stated she has reached out to the Town Manager to look into what would be required for any changes to the 
town’s insurance.
Next item on the agenda, Status of Skate Park
A. Caiozzo stated they have received an updated legal agreement for the Right of Entry from Town Council. A. Caiozzo 
indicated they are waiting for their attorney to review it. Once reviewed they can sign and start to negotiate with the 
builder and sub-contractors.
C. Sullivan made a motion that A. Scheipers to sign the Right of Entry License Agreement on the Commission’s behalf. 
K. Menard seconded. All in favor
K. Menard made a motion to rescind the motion C. Sullivan made on May 24, 2023, with a construction end date of 
June30, 2024 and leave it open to revisit in the fall to determine a new date. C. Sullivan seconded. All in favor, motion 
carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Grants Updates
K. Menard stated the Commission did not get the Trails Grant. The ADA grant was submitted, the amount was $138,000.
The PARC grant has been approved and needs to be executed.
The Land and Water Grant has not been signed off, waiting on a few things. K. Menard indicated there are a few things 
needed from the Army Corps of Engineers.
A. Scheipers stated the Commission did not received the Dredging Grant but are able to reapply.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission June 25, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 33
Next item on the agenda, NHS Update
C. Sullivan stated he has reached. C. Sullivan indicated he also has another message out to see who is in charge of the 
NHS next year.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park
A. Scheipers noted the OPM wanted to know if the Commission would consider having part of the work done by the local 
Technical School and also In-Kind services for people who want to help.
Next item on the agenda, Update on Lake Shirley Parcels & Agreement with Shady Point
A. Scheipers stated the Selectmen are still working on this.
Next item on the agenda, Upcoming Meeting Dates: July 13 and 31, 2024
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates (Open Space & Master Plan Steering)
K. Menard stated Master Planning survey has not gone out. 
K. Menard noted the Commission’s rep. Was A. Lockwood. A. Scheipers will reach out to 
A. Lockwood.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates - none
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes 
K. Menard made a motion to approve April 24 and May 15, 2024. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Board comment:
K. Menard suggested putting Board and Public comment on top of the agenda.
K. Menard suggested possibly offering Town Employees residential rates for the Town Beach.
A. Scheipers stated this issue will be put on the next agenda. The Commission will post a meeting for July 1, 2024, at 2:30 
pm to discuss and vote on this issue.
Public comment:
D. Passios expressed concerns with the amount of time it has taken to get the Skate Park access to Marshall Park and his 
disappointment with the Select Board.
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission June 25, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 34
Adjourned: 8:07 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary