===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg - Park Commission 
 
Anita Scheipers, Chair 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair 
Karin Menard, Clerk 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member 
  
 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
508.439.7958 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
AGENDA - AMENDED 
Wednesday – March 26, 2025 – 7:00 pm 
Ritter Building, Lower Conference Room - 960 Massachusetts Ave, Lunenburg, MA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and it 
will be broadcasted over Lunenburg Public Access channel and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel.  This 
meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in -
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy 
to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, 
unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should 
make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly.  
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To 
Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  
 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347?omn= 89593957949 ,  or from a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-
4499 and enter Meeting ID: 909 174 0347. If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail 
address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.   
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting , and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed  
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
1) Open meeting  
2) Facilities Director Update  
3) Accounting updates for Parks accounts  
4) Recreation Director Update:  Review Beach hours; Status of Seasonal Hires; Concerns re Proposed School Camps; 
Other updates 
5) Spring All Vendor Fair update 
6) Marshall Park User Fees 
7) Skate Park Update  
8) Marshall Park Updates:  
a) Preparation for town meeting; Schedule for Public Information Sessions; General Update 
b) Citizen request for Memorial area to be established in park 
9) Approval of invoices for payment 
10) Discussion on Upcoming Board Reorganization 
11) Chair Updates 
12) Commission Member Updates 
13) Approval of minutes  
14) Upcoming Meeting Dates:  
15) Other Business: Board Comment; Public Comment; Other business matters that may legally come before the board not 
known at the time of posting; Correspondence, and Announcements  
16) Adjourn 
