===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 28, 2026 page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         960 Massachusetts Ave 
Marianne Mascari, Member                         Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
    
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
Remote via Zoom 
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 - 7:00 p.m. 
Members Present: Chair Karin Menard, Vice-Chair Chris Sullivan, Member Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Marianne Mascari 
Members Absent: None 
OPEN MEETING 
Chair K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM. Chair K. Menard informed attendees that the 
meeting was being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained that 
the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not 
listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
BOARD & PUBLIC COMMENT 
None. 
FACILITIES DIRECTOR UPDATES 
Facilities Director, C. Ruth, stated that the Town received almost two feet of snow during the recent 
storm.  
MCNALLY FIELD SIGN REVIEW & DISCUSS PROPOSAL  
K. Menard stated that the agenda item is not for McNally Field but for Fitzgerald Field. 
K. Menard stated that twice in the past ten years, the Fitzgerald Field sign has fallen apart because the 
sign hangs from chains. K. Menard stated that the sign fell apart again in Fall 2025. K. Menard stated 
that C. Ruth had a sign designer review the current condition, and the sign installer recommended that a 
new sign be installed without chains. C. Ruth stated that the proposed new sign is a roll sign print, and it 
measures 120 inches by 45 inches high. C. Ruth stated that the total cost of the sign with installation 
would be $1,993.36 from the revolving account. C. Ruth stated that Add-A-Sign provided the estimate.  

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 28, 2026 page  of 52
K. Menard stated that due to the incorrect agenda item listed on the agenda, she would recommend 
approving it at this meeting and at the subsequent meeting with the correct agenda item listed. 
C. Sullivan moved to allocate $1,993.36 from the Revolving Fund for the new Fitzgerald Field sign 
and installation. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote:  
C. Sullivan-aye 
C. Shapiro-aye 
M. Mascari-aye 
K. Menard-aye 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
LUNENBURG YOUTH BASEBALL – PROPOSAL FOR DUGOUT PROJECT AT POWELL 
FIELD 
Lunenburg Youth Baseball representatives Matt Gilman, Jami Anderson, and Ryan Franczek introduced 
themselves to the Commission. 
Matt Gilman, 186 Reservoir Road, Lunenburg Youth Baseball Vice-President, stated that there has been 
discussion in the league regarding the deteriorating condition of the dugout at Powell Field. M. Gilman 
stated that the Lunenburg Youth Baseball League has made improvements to the field in recent years. M. 
Gilman stated that the proposed new dugouts would be a donation to the Town and would not cost the 
Town any funds. 
Jami Anderson, 319 Highland Street, provided the Commission with the proposed redesign 
specifications. J. Anderson stated that the new dugout would have the same existing footprint and the 
same configuration. J. Anderson stated that each dugout is roughly 25 feet by 8 feet. J. Anderson stated 
that the proposal will be very similar to the upper softball field dugouts. J. Anderson stated that there 
will be a solid concrete floor with a wood structure, a single slope roof that would pitch off the back and 
have asphalt shingles. J. Anderson stated that the dugout would have a solid backing so that there is less 
distractions between the players and the attendees. J. Anderson stated that the materials and labor would 
be from various donations from suppliers and vendors. 
C. Ruth stated that anyone who is operating equipment and power tools must be covered by insurance of 
the League or a vendor doing the work. J. Anderson agreed. J. Anderson stated that the plan is to 
complete the dugout construction by April 15, 2026. K. Menard stated that she is concerned that getting 
equipment delivered to the site may cause damage to the field in the rainy season. J. Anderson stated that 
they will take all necessary precautions to not damage the field. J. Anderson stated that the work would 
begin in mid-March and has a proposed four-week construction timeline. 
K. Menard stated that the Commission will vote to allow the project to move forward, and then once 
completed, the Select Board will vote to accept the donation. 
C. Shapiro moved to authorize the Lunenburg Youth Baseball Program to remove and construct 
two new dugouts at Powell Field using private contractors and donations through their program. 
Seconded by C. Sullivan. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, M. Mascari-aye, K. Menard-
aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 28, 2026 page  of 53
BEACH SIGN UPDATE 
M. Mascari stated that she tried to get a measurement of the current sign at the Beach House, but it had a 
snow bank on it. M. Mascari stated that a prior measurement was 66 inches by 25 inches. M. Mascari 
stated that Add-A-Sign proposed a 72 inch by 36 inch belt sign with a raised frame that is 1.25 inches of 
aluminum. M. Mascari stated that the estimate to remove the old sign, design, and install the new sign 
would cost $1,065. M. Mascari stated that a donor will cover up to $1,000. M. Mascari stated that she 
will solicit two other quotes from vendors as well. 
M. Mascari stated that she would organize the dedication ceremony in honor of the Genevieve Nass 
Memorial Beach House. M. Mascari stated that the new sign would coincide well with the dedication 
ceremony.  
2026 BEACH SEASON DISCUSSION 
K. Menard stated that the Town Manager has asked departments to look at their budgets carefully. K. 
Menard stated that the beach fees do not cover all the salaries for beach operations; they cover roughly 
50% of the salary budget. K. Menard proposed to adjust the beach fee structure to make the program 
self-sustaining and not reliant on the Town’s operating budget. K. Menard stated that for the beach 
program to be self-sustaining, the passes and lessons have to be doubled based on the information she 
has and some quick math. 
K. Menard researched other neighboring municipal pool and beach fee schedules. She stated that if fees 
were to double, the fees would still be similar to those in some nearby communities, like Holden. K. 
Menard stated that she is very concerned about keeping the Town Beach open without reliance on the 
Town’s operating budget.  
C. Shapiro stated that she is in favor of doubling the rate schedule, and she believes that the Town is 
offering quality services for a reasonable price. C. Shapiro stated that if the beach program is self-
sustaining, there could potentially be more offerings in future seasons. 
C. Sullivan stated that although he is normally cautious with raising fees, he recognizes the concern that 
the Town’s operating budget may not be able to cover the beach program. C. Sullivan stated that he 
would support a self-sustaining model. C. Sullivan stated that socialization is important for families in 
the summer, and the Town Beach is a great resource for that. C. Sullivan stated that there should be 
significant communication to residents regarding the fee change. 
K. Menard agreed with C. Sullivan regarding ample communication to residents regarding the fee 
change. K. Menard stated that if the Commission did not get enough revenue for this season due to 
fewer memberships, then that can be reviewed after the 2026 season. K. Menard stated that the 
Commission has enough reserve funds if the season is not self-sustaining. K. Menard stated that the 
Beach Director would be tasked to review staffing levels so that the beach is not over-staffed on less 
busy days. M. Mascari stated that the fee schedule should be competitive compared to nearby programs. 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 28, 2026 page  of 54
ABUTTERS NOTIFICATION FROM ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS & PLANNING BOARD 
MEETINGS REGARDING 947 MASSACHUSETTS A VENUE 
K. Menard said that the Commission received abutters notification from the Zoning Board of Appeals 
and the Planning board regarding the Dunkin Donuts proposed at the former Main Street Bank location.  
K. Menard stated that the building inspector rescinded an opinion that a drive-thru was allowed in the 
area. K. Menard stated that if anyone on the Commission has concerns, they should go to the board 
meetings and make a public statement.  
FIELD USAGE FORMS & POLICY REVIEW & DISCUSSION 
K. Menard reviewed the field usage forms; she has concerns about the enforcement of the policy. K. 
Menard stated that the Commission can review the field usage forms and policies at the next 
Commission meeting. K. Menard stated that she is working to revise the signage policy to not allow 
advertisements on Fitzgerald Field. K. Menard stated that Fitzgerald Field advertisements are not 
allowed due to sight lines for vehicles. C. Sullivan recommends changing the language to include “all 
facilities” instead of just ball fields. C. Sullivan recommends getting input from the Fire Chief and 
Police Chief regarding signage and safety. C. Sullivan recommends that, within the conduct, safety, and 
use expectations, the Commission should give consent to allow individuals to work on parks, facilities, 
and grounds. K. Menard stated that when the Field Usage Forms and Policy were approved seven years 
prior, there was sporadic supporting documentation included with the minutes.  
K. Menard stated that the Town has been approached by a private non-profit youth club-level baseball 
program that is looking to use field space. K. Menard stated that they are specifically looking for a day 
or two a week for practice. K. Menard stated that the Commission should look into the fee schedule for 
instances like this.  
CHAIR UPDATES 
K. Menard stated that the Commission has a meeting with the Lunenburg Skate Park organizers next 
week regarding a completion bond.  
OTHER BUSINESS 
None. 
APPROV AL OF MINUTES 
C. Sullivan moved to approve the October 27, 2025, and December 17, 2025, meeting minutes. 
Seconded by M. Mascari.  
Call for the vote:  
C. Sullivan-aye 
C. Shapiro-aye 
M. Mascari-aye 
K. Menard-aye 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
===PAGE 5===
Lunenburg Park Commission January 28, 2026 page  of 55
 
UPCOMING MEETING DATES 
The Commission will meet on February 3, 2026, and February 25, 2026. 
ADJOURNMENT 
C. Sullivan moved to adjourn. Seconded by C. Shapiro.  
Call for the vote:  
C. Sullivan-aye 
C. Shapiro-aye 
M. Mascari-aye 
K. Menard-aye 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned at 8:38 P.M. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Anthony Senesi, 
Recording Clerk 