===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         960 Massachusetts Ave 
Marianne Mascari, Member                         Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Vacancy, Member  
MINUTES 
Wednesday, March 25, 2026 – 7:00 p.m. 
Members Present: Chair Karin Menard, Vice-Chair Chris Sullivan, Member Colleen Shapiro 
Members Absent: Member Marianne Mascari 
OPEN MEETING 
Chair K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:03 P.M. Chair K. Menard informed attendees that the meeting 
was being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought up 
as permitted by open meeting law. 
BOARD & PUBLIC COMMENT 
None. 
FACILITY DIRECTOR UPDATES 
C. Ruth, Facilities Director, is not present at the meeting. K. Menard stated that Krista Deveau is the new 
Lunenburg Recreation Director and will begin her position in mid-April. K. Menard stated per C. Ruth the 
fields are close to being ready for the Spring season.  
 
SKATE PARK UPDATE 
K. Menard stated that the peer review came in as expected. K. Menard stated that they are waiting for the 
Lunenburg Skate Park organizers to submit documents to the Park Commission. 
K. Menard stated that Matt Gilman told her that the T-Ball Program has more players signed up and wanted to 
know if the Tball field at Marshall would be available for use this season. K. Menard stated that C. Ruth does 
not see any issues with using Marshall Park. K. Menard stated that C. Ruth would talk to Lake View to see how 
much it would cost to get the field ready, since it has not been maintained. K. Menard stated that the Lunenburg 
Skate Park construction may have to begin after the T-Ball season. 
K. Menard stated that the Park Commission will eventually need to vote to not allow dogs at the T-Ball field.  
 

===PAGE 2===
LUNENBURG BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (LBA) PROPOSAL TO PARTNER WITH PARKS 
COMMISSION FOR THE 2026 VENDOR FAIR (VOTE ANTICIPATED) 
K. Menard stated that she met with the LBA President regarding partnering with the Park Commission so that 
the Vendor Fair can fall under the insurance regulations of the Town. K. Menard stated that she spoke with the 
LBA President and described that the Town does not have any staff available to assist with organizing and 
preparing for the Vendor Fair. K. Menard stated that the LBA President is fully aware of those stipulations. 
 
K. Menard stated that the Vendor Fair will occur on May 30, 2026, with a rain date on May 31, 2026. K. 
Menard stated that T.C. Passios will not be available for the event. K. Menard stated that the LBA is planning to 
hold the event fully outside. K. Menard stated that the LBA is not looking for town staff support for planning 
and coordinating the event. 
C. Shapiro moved to authorize the partnership with the Lunenburg Business Association for the 2026 
Vendor Fair with the understanding that no municipal staff support will be provided. Seconded by C. 
Sullivan. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously 
(3-0-0). 
K. Menard stated that the LBA will not need assistance in renting porta-potties from the Park Commission. K. 
Menard stated that LBA will be using the Library bathrooms and potentially the bathrooms at T.C. Passios. 
K. Menard stated that the Park Commission could rent a dunk tank, like last year, for a two-day rental. K. 
Menard stated that she will gather the quote for the dunk tank.  
C. Sullivan moved to authorize Park Commission funds to rent a dunk tank for the 2026 Vendor Fair. 
Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
CHAIR UPDATES 
K. Menard stated that at the Tri-Board Meeting last night, it appears there will be a two-tiered override 
approach. K. Menard stated that if the balanced budget is approved, meaning both overrides are not passed, the 
Recreation Director position is eliminated, and the Town Beach salary line item will decrease, and there would 
be no Town funds available to open the Town Beach in 2027. 
 
K. Menard stated that the Tier 1 Override, if approved, would keep the Recreation Director as a part-time 
employee and would increase the town beach salary line item and add funds for recreational programming. 
K. Menard stated that the Tier 2 Override, if approved, would fund the Recreation Director as a full-time 
employee, and the same town beach salary line item as Tier 1. 
C. Shapiro asked if the new Recreation Director is aware of the override and budget challenges. K. Menard 
stated that she is aware of the issues. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
APPROV AL OF MINUTES: JANUARY 28, 2026 & FEBRUARY 3, 2026 
C. Sullivan stated that at the January 28, 2026, Commission meeting, he did not research local pools and their 
fee schedules. K. Menard stated that she will amend the meeting minutes with that correction. 
C. Sullivan moved to approve the January 28, 2026, and February 3, 2026, meeting minutes with the 
amendment as described above for the January 28, 2026, meeting. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the 
vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS THAT MAY LEGALLY COME BEFORE THE COMMISSION NOT 
KNOWN AT THE TIME OF POSTING 
None. 
 
CORRESPONDENCE AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
K. Menard stated that she received an email today regarding a submitted Talent Rank Form for the Park 
Commission vacancy. The Commission discussed that the appointment would only be for one Park Commission 
meeting due to the upcoming Town Election.  
 
BOARD AND PUBLIC COMMENTS 
None 
ADJOURNMENT 
C. Sullivan moved to adjourn. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. 
Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned at 7:28 P.M. 