===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         960 Massachusetts Ave 
Marianne Mascari, Member                         Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Vacancy, Member  
MINUTES 
Upper Ritter Conference Room, 960 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg 
Members Present: Chair Karin Menard, Vice-Chair Chris Sullivan, Member Colleen Shapiro 
Members Absent: Member Marianne Mascari 
OPEN MEETING 
Chair K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:03 P.M. Chair K. Menard informed attendees that the meeting 
was being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought up 
as permitted by open meeting law. 
BOARD & PUBLIC COMMENT 
None. 
FACILITY DIRECTOR UPDATES 
 
K. Menard stated that Chris Ruth, Facilities Director, could not attend the meeting. K. Menard stated that three 
qualified candidates were interviewed for the Recreation Director position. K. Menard stated that an offer was 
made to one of the candidates.  
EARTH DAY 2026 DISCUSSION (VOTE MAY OCCUR) 
K. Menard stated that the new Conservation Agent, Herlin Jaime, is organizing an Earth Day event on April 22, 
2026, in the afternoon. K. Menard stated that H. Jaime asked if the Park Commission would like to table at the 
event. K. Menard asked the Commissioners if they were able to attend. None of the Commissioners could 
commit.  
 
FITZGERALD FIELD SIGN – CORRECTION OF VOTE TAKEN AT PREVIOUS COMMISSION 
MEETING (VOTE ANTICIPATED) 
 
K. Menard stated at the February 2026 Commission meeting that she incorrectly listed this agenda item as 
McNally Field Sign. K. Menard stated that the sign replacement is actually occurring at Fitzgerald Field. K. 
Menard stated that, for public disclosure, the correct agenda item is included in the meeting.  
 

===PAGE 2===
C. Sullivan moved to allow the Facilities Director to install a new sign at Fitzgerald Field with revolving 
account funds. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
SKATE PARK UPDATE 
 
K. Menard stated that C. Ruth asked the usual peer reviewers to review the Skate Park plans but this wasn’t the 
type of project they reviewed.. K. Menard stated that C. Ruth found a peer reviewer through a connection at 
RDLA. K. Menard stated that several documents have been received this week but have not yet been reviewed. 
K. Menard stated that C. Ruth will review the documents with the Town Manager and pose potential questions 
to the peer reviewer. K. Menard stated that she would like the Park Commission to review the documents before 
meeting with Skate Park representatives. 
2026 BEACH SEASON FEES DISCUSSION (VOTE ANTICIPATED) 
K. Menard presented the 2025 Beach Season Fee Schedule. K. Menard presented the breakdown of passes 
through MyRec for the 2025 beach season. K. Menard stated that at least 24 non-resident family passes were 
purchased in 2025. 
K. Menard stated that for FY2026, $24,000 was appropriated for salaries, and it was overspent by $347.00. K. 
Menard stated that the maintenance, repairs, and supplies line items are anywhere between $3,940 to $4,700. K. 
Menard stated that for FY2026, swim lesson revenue was $3,930, season pass revenue was $8,660, and day pass 
revenue was $1,872. K. Menard stated that for FY2026, the revenue collected through MyRec was $14,462. 
K. Menard stated that the Town Manager and Facilities Director recommend that the beach program be self-
sustaining. K. Menard stated that she recommends doubling the non-resident passes for FY2027. K. Menard 
stated that she does not recommend doubling the cost of the resident senior passes. 
K. Menard stated that 24 non-resident family passes, 87 resident family passes, 7 non-resident senior passes, 
and 16 resident senior passes were purchased in FY2026. K. Menard stated that there may be an override 
proposed to level fund services. She stated that the Recreation services may be cut if the override does not pass. 
C. Shapiro stated that she believes the swim lessons are priced lower than at private pools. 
The Commission reached a consensus that a proposed $35 resident senior pass would be reasonable. The 
Commission reached a consensus that a resident individual pass would be $65, and the resident family pass 
would be $100. The Commission reached a consensus that a resident family day pass (up to four individuals) 
would be $20, a resident individual adult day pass would be $10, a resident individual child day pass (under the 
age of 18) would be $5, and a resident senior individual day pass would be $5. 
The Commission reached a consensus that a non-resident family pass would be $150, and a non-resident 
individual pass would be $115. The Commission reached a consensus that the non-resident senior pass would be 
$65. The Commission reached a consensus that a non-resident family day pass (up to four individuals) would be 
$30, a non-resident individual adult day pass would be $15, a non-resident individual child day pass (under the 
age of 18) would be $10, and a non-resident senior individual day pass would be $10. 
C. Shapiro moved the 2026 Beach Season Pass Fee Schedule as described above. Seconded by C. Sullivan. 
Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
===PAGE 3===
The Commission reached a consensus that a resident swim session per child would be $50, with a maximum of 
$150 per family per session. The Commission reached a consensus that a non-resident swim session would be 
$60, with a maximum of $180 per family per session. 
C. Shapiro moved to approve the 2026 Swim Lesson Fee Schedule as described above. Seconded by C. 
Sullivan. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously 
(3-0-0). 
 
FIELD USAGE FORMS AND POLICY REVIEW AND DISCUSSION (VOTE ANTICIPATED) 
K. Menard stated that she recommends that this be tabled until the new Recreation Director begins their position 
in the Town.  
SIGNAGE POLICY DISCUSSION (VOTE ANTICIPATED) 
K. Menard presented the drafted Signage Policy. K. Menard recommends that the approval of signage would be 
by the Recreation Director or Facilities Director and not the Park Commission. K. Menard stated that the Park 
Commission meets once a month and that the turnaround time would not be conducive to approval efficiency. 
Matt Gilman stated that he will send the list of sponsors and locations to the Recreation Director. M. Gilman 
stated that there are approximately 20 sponsors that may have signage on the various fields. 
K. Menard stated that she has not reached out to the Building Commissioner yet regarding any zoning bylaws 
that may apply to this proposed policy. 
C. Sullivan moved to approve the Lunenburg Park Commission Signage Policy as amended, pending 
approval from the Building Commissioner. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. 
Shapiro-aye, K. Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
CHAIR UPDATES 
K. Menard stated that Lunenburg Youth Baseball submitted their field use forms to abide by the previously set 
deadlines. K. Menard stated that she recommended M. Gilman not to over-request field space and hours. K. 
Menard stated that a private youth baseball program requested the use of McNally Field. K. Menard stated that 
the requested group is AAU level. K. Menard stated that they have requested the use of McNally Field during 
the weekends for some of their games. 
K. Menard stated that there has been discussion regarding the Vendor Fair. K. Menard stated that the President 
of the Lunenburg Business Association would like to partner again with the Park Commission because of the 
ease of insurance requirements if it is a Town-sponsored event. K. Menard stated that, due to there not being a 
Recreation Director and other competing priorities, she told the LBA that there would not be the capacity to 
assist closely with the event. 
K. Menard recommends that the Commission invite members of the LBA to the next meeting and state in 
writing that the Park Commission cannot offer Town staff support. K. Menard and C. Sullivan stated that they 
can assist with logistics.  
===PAGE 4===
OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS THAT MAY LEGALLY COME BEFORE THE COMMISSION NOT 
KNOWN AT THE TIME OF POSTING 
None. 
 
CORRESPONDENCE AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
 
BOARD AND PUBLIC COMMENTS 
The Park Commission’s next meeting is scheduled for March 25, 2026 depending on ongoing agenda item 
updates.  
ADJOURNMENT 
C. Shapiro moved to adjourn. Seconded by C. Sullivan. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, C. Shapiro-aye, K. 
Menard-aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned at 8:50 P.M. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Anthony Senesi, 
Recording Clerk 