===PAGE 1===
** Per Policy, Public comment will be decided at the discretion of the Chair - please Note that Public comment is not 
required by law and may at times not be permitted for any reason.  
 
BOARD OF TRUST FUND COMMISSIONERS 
Thursday September 10, 2026 
5:00 PM-6:30PM 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public 
Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be 
uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube after the meeting.  Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its 
hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the 
subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application.  You are hereby notified that this 
AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meeting. Please note that while 
an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological 
problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should 
make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From 
a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://zoom.us/j/87846111346 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 
475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 878 4611 1346 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and e-mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use 
the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all the items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting 
Law. 
5:00 PM CALL TO ORDER 
I. OPEN • PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
II. PUBLIC COMMENT: PUBLIC**COMMISSION 
III. TRUST REP COMMUNICATION 
IV. MEETINGS (every 2nd and 4th Thursday) 
V. TREASURER AND FINANCE DIRECTOR REPORTS 
VI. NEW BUSINESS 
1. Day Fund Cypres Filing communication 
2. School Department Trust Funds and charitable gifts issues letter titled “Supplemental Compliance Complaint 
and Request for Investigative Action” Draft Letter Review. (follow up) — Status: joint meeting request to School 
Committee Chair sent Aug 27, re-sent Sept 4; Chair replied Sept 4 she will consult the Committee’s attorney; 
Commission’s full response sent Sept 5 (cc Town Manager, Select Board Chair, Town Counsel, Treasurer, 
Superintendent); window runs to approx. Sept 26; no response as of Sept 10. 
3. Meeting Minutes Ratification 
4. Next Steps For the Commission public awareness, writing the declaration for American Legion Poor Fund, 
Howard Sidewalk Fund, and Gazebo Fund as from notes in public records 
5. By Law Warrant Article Special Town Meeting (finalize wording – warrant closes 9/17/26) — Status: formal 
submission emailed Sept 4 to Town Counsel, Town Manager, Select Board Chair and By-Law Review Committee 
requesting Counsel’s recommended changes; awaiting reply; any amendments must be voted tonight. 
VII. OLD BUSINESS 
1. (Status update) Attorney General Notice of Breach for town failure to meet their legal obligations that triggers 
specific rights, duties, or consequences for the commission. 
2. (Status Update) Regarding school department and letter to the school regarding gifts and scholarships not 
within exempted authority under MGLA chapter 71 and Chapter 55 
3. Updates to website postings 
4. Vacancy 
5. Goals of the Commission 
6. Update on interns (ongoing) 
7. Real estate investigations (ongoing) 
8. Review rewritten risk management policy ratify with corrections (finalize and vote)  
VIII. BENEFICIARY/COMMENT 
IX. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS 
1. September 24, 2026 
X. PUBLIC COMMENT: PUBLIC** • TREASURER/FINANCE DIRECTOR • COMMISSION 
XI. ADJOURN 
