===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
North Central Climate Change Coalition (NC4) 
Meeting Agenda 
Date: September 25, 2024 
Time: 7:00 – 8:30 pm 
Location: Remote Only 
Link: https://meet.goto.com/144509325 
 
You can also dial in using your phone: US +1 (224) 501-3412 
Access Code: 144-509-325 
 
REMOTE INSTRUCTIONS  
Instructions for residents to participate remotely can be found on the home page of the Town website. 
https://town.pepperell.ma.us/683/Remote-Public-Meeting- 
Agenda: 
1. Welcome  
2. Minutes to be reviewed and approved. 
See draft minutes on the NC4 Google Drive Minutes Folder 
3. Member Updates 
4. Discussion of Green Communities activity 
5. Website and Survey Update 
6. MMA Climate Change Declaration 
7. Immigrant/farmland match legislation 
8. Adjournment 
 
 
NC4 is composed of municipal and civic leaders across Massachusetts Congressional District 3 working on the frontlines of climate 
change resistance, resilience, and adaptation. We see first-hand climate change’s impacts to the health and well-being of our 
communities and to our natural and built environment. Our hopes are to harness the power of people and communities working 
together to build awareness and attract funding for regional efforts to address already baked in climate impacts and opportunities to 
create a healthier and safer future.  The mission of The North Central Climate Change Collaborative (NC4) is to foster and 
strengthen regional municipal collaborative efforts to combat climate change through:  
 
    • shared projects, educational efforts, and best practices, and 
    • informing state and federal legislative actions. 
Since convening on an informal basis in the Summer of 2021, people from communities in the 3rd Congressional District have met 
regularly to share knowledge on climate initiatives in their communities and ideas for how a regional group of communities could 
more effectively work together. 
 
The Town of Pepperell strives to assure that no individual with a disability shall, by reason of such disability, be excluded from 
participation in or be denied the benefits of the services, programs or activities of the Town of Pepperell.  Towards that end, persons 
with special needs are asked to contact the Selectmen's Office in advance of any meeting to ensure that prior arrangements are 
made to assure full participation in the meeting. 
