===PAGE 1===
CAC  Meeting  Minutes  Thursday  August  13,  2026  On  Zoom   Roll  call:  •  Meeting  was  called  to  order  at  6:00  pm.  •  CAC  members  present:Steve  Archambault,  Karin  Menard,  Tom  Bodkin,  Brian  Vienneau     Not  present:  Brian  Lehtenin  •  Cable  Access  Manager  Jo  Toale  was  also  in  attendance   Public  Comments:   ●  None   Committee  Comments:  ●  None   Communications:  ●  K.  Menard  received  an  email  from  from  the  Town  Hall  about  legal  representation   Minutes:-  ●  Motion  to  accept  7/23  minutes  (1st  S.  Archambault,  2nd  K.  Menard)  passed   Cable  Advisory  Legal  Representative  Update  ●  Town  Hall  states  we  should  get  an  answer  on  legal  representation  shortly   Review  and  Discuss  Cable  License  Renewal  Procedures  ●  We  reviewed  the  process  and  duties  we  needed  to  perform  to  complete  the  process,  we  
decided
 
to
 
split
 
the
 
responsibilities
 
up
 
as
 
followed:
 ○  B.  Vienneau  will  conduct  a  tour  of  the  operating  facilities  ○  K.  Menard  and  S.  Archambault  will  continue  to  review  the  surrounding  towns'  
licence
 
agreements
 
with
 
Comcast,
 
K.
 
Menard
 
recommended
 
ensuring
 
we
 
select
 
towns
 
that
 
are
 
a
 
similar
 
size
 
to
 
Lunenburg
 
itself
 ○  T.  Bodkin  will  reach  out  to  the  school  system  and  see  what  their  needs  are  ○  S.  Archambault  will  check  with  the  Library  and  Town  Teen  Center  ○  K.  Menard  will  do  the  same  for  the  town’s  departments  ○  S.  Archambault  will  check  for  a  map  of  the  town’s  current  service  area  ○  We  will  check  if  B.  Lehtenin  can  review  the  town’s  relevant  financial  documents  ●  After  we  complete  these  steps  we  can  start  putting  together  a  survey    Discussion  of  Future  Meeting:  It  was  decided  that  we  will  meet  on  a  Tuesday  in  October,  the  exact  date  is  TBA   Adjournment:  ●  Meeting  adjourned  at  6:38  pm  
===PAGE 2===
●  (K.  Menard,  2nd  B.  Vienneau)  -  Passed)  