===PAGE 111===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 111 
 
Results 
The report indicates if a fund is in balance, and if not, what transactions have caused it to be out of 
balance. When reading the Account Trial Balance Report, remember that both the beginning balances 
and the ending balances should be zero, and debits should equal credits for the fund totals. 
What’s Next? 
If there are any discrepancies in the report, post the correcting journal entries to bring the fund back into 
balance.  
  
===PAGE 112===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 112 
 
Import Journals     
Objective 
This document provides instructions on how to import data from ASCII files using the Import Journals 
program. This program is used for journal imports from systems or sources other than Munis.  
Overview 
When you import journal data into Munis, data must be in specific formats and you must understand the 
various file layouts. The following import formats are available in the Import Journals program: 
• Budget— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal entries.   
• Budget Long Account— The account type is in position 141 and the long account number is in 
positions 142 to 176; the remaining format is the same as the Budget Import Format. 
• Cayenta—This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing journal entries from a Cayenta 
system into Munis.   
• Faster— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing journal entries from a FASTER fleet 
maintenance system into Munis. (Note: FASTER is the name of the software.) 
• ISIS Payroll ZF65 Report—This format imports data from Microsoft Excel. This import is specific 
to the Louisiana Department of Education. 
• Jonas— This format is tab-delimited. 
• NC Vehicle Property Tax—This import format is specific to the state of North Carolina.  
• Oklahoma Benefit— This format is intended for use by El Monte and Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
• Oklahoma Payroll—This format is intended for use by El Monte and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  
• PeopleSoft— This format imports Excel data from a PeopleSoft system into Munis. 
• Pipe Delimited 1— This format is delimited using pipe characters (|). When you import using this 
format, the program examines the org and object codes and determines whether the 
combination represents an existing Munis account. If the account is valid, the program uses that 
account. If the account is not valid, the program combines the org and object with a hyphen 
between the two, and then applies that value to the cross-reference table in order to select a 
cross reference string. 
• Standard— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal entries. 
• Standard Excel— This is a standard format for importing a Microsoft Excel file. When this format 
is selected, the program displays the Generate Excel Template button. Clicking the button 
opens Excel with a blank form containing only column headers. This form can be used to create 
the import file. 
===PAGE 113===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 113 
 
• Standard Long Account—This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal 
entries using the Munis long account format. It is identical to the Standard Import Format, but it 
includes the full general ledger account number in positions 142 to 196. If you click Pre-Edit 
after selecting this format, the program displays the full account number. 
• Standard Multi-Journal— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal 
entries into multiple journals in Munis. 
• Template—Various custom template formats are available if you have defined them in the 
Journal Import Templates program. 
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
 
• The chart of accounts (COA) has been established and includes all general ledger accounts 
being imported or referenced in the Account X-Reference program. 
• The Account X-Reference table has been created, if applicable. 
  
===PAGE 114===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 114 
 
Procedure  
To complete the journal import process: 
 Open the Import Journals program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > Import Journals 
 
 
 Click Define. 
 Complete the fields to define the import parameters, referring to the following table for details.  
Field Description Notes 
Import Options 
Execute This 
Import... 
Determines when to generate the import 
when Munis Scheduler is enabled: 
• Now—Completes the import 
immediately. This option does not 
use Munis Scheduler; use the 
Import option within the program to 
complete the import. 
• In Background (Now)—Opens 
Munis Scheduler to complete the 
import one time using the event log 
and email notification features. 
• At a Scheduled Time— Uses Munis 
Scheduler to establish a specific 
time to complete the import. 
 
Import Format Specifies the format of the import. When 
you select a format and then click the 
Generate button, the program creates a 
 

===PAGE 115===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 115 
 
Field Description Notes 
blank template based on the selected 
format. 
Skip Budget Check Directs the program to ignore budget 
amounts, when selected. 
 
Report Over 
Budget Warnings 
Instructs the program to display report 
warnings if over-budget lines are detected 
on the import, when selected. 
 
Release After 
Import 
Directs the program to release all imported 
journals after the import completes 
successfully, when selected. 
 
Import File Contains the path of the file to import. 
Type the file path or use the Local File or 
Server File options to select a file from the 
appropriate location. 
The program indicates the format of the 
import file, such as Text (ASCII) File or 
Excel File, after you select an option from 
the Import Format list and advance to the 
next field. 
 
Skip First Line Directs the program to skip the first line or 
row of the import file, when selected. 
Select this check box if the import file 
includes column labels or field names. 
 
Remove Import File Instructs the program to remove the import 
file from its location after it is successfully 
imported into the Munis system, when 
selected. This prevents the program from 
performing duplicate imports. 
 
Journal Information 
Fiscal Year/Period Identifies the fiscal year and period the 
program uses for imported journals. 
If you select Within Year/Period, you must 
enter a specific year and period. The 
default values for the fiscal year and 
period are completed from General Ledger 
Settings, but you can change this if you 
have the appropriate permissions. 
Valid entries for the Fiscal Year box are 
the current year or next year.  
Valid entries for the Period box are 01 
through 13, inclusive. Period 13 
represents end-of-year (EOY) and is only 
valid in the prior year. 
 
Effective Date Defines the effective date the program 
uses for imported journals. 
 
===PAGE 116===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 116 
 
Field Description Notes 
Reference Assigns a user-defined journal 
reference code that stays with each 
transaction throughout its life. 
This is a user-defined code; it may be a 
control number, a date, or a note. 
 
Journal Source Specifies the journal source code for 
journals that are imported. The program 
automatically selects the journal source 
based on the value chosen from the 
Import Format list. 
 
Reference 3 Indicates the journal reference code that 
appears in the Reference 3 field. 
For some import formats, the program 
automatically completes this field and you 
cannot change it. 
For period 12 journals that need to be 
reported on the Oklahoma Grant Claims 
Supplemental Report, 
type SUPPLEMENTAL. 
 
Budget 
Amendment Type 
Indicates the budget amendment type for 
expense and revenue accounts: 
• 1—Exp to Exp or Rev to Rev  
• 2—Exp to Rev or Rev to Exp  
• 3—Exp/Rev one- sided (not 
balanced) 
• 4—Exp to Exp or Rev to Rev 
• 5—Exp to Rev or Rev to Exp  
• 6—Exp/Rev one- sided (not 
balanced) 
• 7—Exp to Rev or Rev to Exp 
interfund 
• 8—Exp to Exp interfund  
• 9—Statistic accounts  
Use Type 1, 2, or 3 when the amount on 
each line in the import file is the amount 
that the account’s budget should be 
increased or decreased. 
Use Type 4, 5, or 6 when the amount on 
each line in the import file is the new 
budget amount. The amendment is made 
for the difference between the amount 
being imported and the amount currently 
budgeted on the account. 
This box is accessible when the value of 
the Import Format list is Budget. 
 
Short Description Provides a short description of the journal 
contents. 
 
===PAGE 117===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 117 
 
Field Description Notes 
The description can be up to 10 
alphanumeric characters. 
This field is required. 
Import Summary 
Year 
Period 
Journal 
Source 
Status 
Short Description 
Displays a table of the imported journals. 
The Open Journal and Release All options 
below the table allow you to select a 
journal from the table and view it or 
release all journals in the table into the 
workflow, respectively. 
 
 
 When you have completed the applicable fields, click Accept.  
 Click Pre-Edit to find any errors in the file prior to importing the data. 
 Select an output option on the toolbar to review the journals. 
 Click Import to import the journal entries. 
Results 
The program imports journal entries or budget amendments in the proof stage. Each record is 
processed, verifying that each account exists in Account Master and is not a revenue or expense 
control account.  
 
If the account is invalid or matches either of the control accounts, the program displays an error and 
you are prompted either to continue checking other accounts or to abort the process. In either case, 
records are not created for a new journal. 
What’s Next? 
To affect the general ledger, you must output/post the journals using the General Journal Entry/Proof or 
Budget Transfers and Amendments program. To find the journals, click Browse on the toolbar when 
you open either program.  
  
===PAGE 118===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 118 
 
Year End Manager 
Objective 
This document provides instructions on creating a year-end checklist in the Year End Manager program 
to manage and streamline year-end processing. 
Overview 
The Year End Manager program provides a centralized location to organize and track progress on all 
the tasks that must be completed prior to running the year-end close process. It provides customizable 
checklists and detailed information about each task and associated records. 
Prerequisites  
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• You have access to the programs on the End of Period submenu. 
• Month-end processing has been performed for all months in the year. 
• There are no general ledger account access restrictions associated with your user ID. 
 
  
===PAGE 119===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 119 
 
Procedures 
Creating a Year-End Checklist 
To create a year-end checklist: 
1. Open the Year End Manager program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > End of Period > Fiscal Year End Processing > Year End 
Manager 
 
 
2. Click Edit Checklist. 
The program refreshes the screen to display the Available Tasks and Checklist panes. 
 
 

===PAGE 120===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 120 
 
3. Click New Checklist. 
The program displays the Create Checklist dialog box. 
 
 
4. Choose how to create the checklist: 
• Use the Default Checklist—Adds all the default tasks in the System Generated tab to the 
checklist. 
• Start with a Blank Checklist—Creates a bl ank checklist with no tasks. The tasks in the 
System Generated tab are available to be added manually. 
• Copy Tasks from an Existing Checklist—Copies tasks from a previous year's checklist to 
the new checklist. When selected, this option provides a list of existing checklists from 
which to copy tasks. The Copy Comments check box, when selected, copies comments 
from the selected checklist to the new checklist. 
 
 
5. Click Create. 
The program refreshes the screen based on the selected option. 
6. Review the default tasks in either the Available Tasks or Checklist pane, depending on your 
selection.  
7. If tasks exist in the Available Tasks pane, select the check box for each task to add to the 
Checklist pane. 
The Add to Checklist link displays. 
 
 
 

===PAGE 121===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 121 
 
8. Click Add to Checklist. 
The selected task is added to the bottom of the Checklist pane and removed from the Available 
Tasks pane. 
 
 
9. In the Checklist pane, drag a task to reorder it. 
The program automatically renumbers the tasks accordingly. 
10. To remove tasks from the Checklist pane, select the check box for each task to remove. 
The Remove from Checklist link displays. 
 
 
11. Click Remove from Checklist. 
The selected tasks are removed from the Checklist pane and added to the Available Tasks 
pane. The remaining tasks in the checklist are renumbered accordingly. 
 
 

===PAGE 122===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 122 
 
12. The User Defined tab holds any user-defined tasks that are specific to your organization. To add 
a user-defined task, click New Task. 
The program displays the Add Task dialog box. 
 
 
13. Complete the fields to define the new task and then click Save. 
The program adds the new task to the User Defined tab. 
14. Select the check box for the user-defined task to add to the Checklist pane. 
The program displays the Add to Checklist, Edit, and Delete options. 
 
 
Note: If you select multiple tasks, the program displays the Add to Checklist option only. The 
Edit and Delete options are only available for individual tasks. 
15. Click Add to Checklist to add the selected user-defined task to the Checklist pane. 
16. Drag the task to reorder it as needed.  
17. Once you have added all the tasks to the checklist, click Return. 
The program automatically saves the checklist. 
 
 

===PAGE 123===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 123 
 
Assigning Due Dates, Reminders, and Tasks 
To enable email notifications, GLYE and GLYED alerts (for reminders and due dates, respectively) 
must be established in the Alert Business Rules program, which is accessible from the System 
Administration > Alert Administration submenu. Once these alerts are set up and valid emails are 
established for the task assignees, emails will be sent to the assignees based on the reminder and due 
dates. 
 
1. From an existing checklist, click Dates. 
The program displays the Checklist Dates dialog box.
 
 
2. For each checklist item, enter the name of the user who is assigned the task, the due date, and 
the date on which to send a reminder in the relevant fields. 
When you start typing in the Assignee field, the program provides a list of available options. 
Assignees must be established users in the Munis system.  
For the Due and Reminder fields, use the calendar button to select dates as needed. 
3. Click Save. 
The program returns to the checklist. The Due, Assigned To, and Reminder fields for the 
individual checklist tasks include the information you supplied. 
 
Results 
Once your organization has defined all the required steps in the year-end checklist, the checklist can be 
used to manage and track progress in the year-end process. The checklist can be copied and edited 
from one year to the next, accommodating any necessary customizations to the process. 
GL Impact 
The general ledger is not affected by creating year-end checklists. However, depending on the tasks 
included in the checklist, and when the tasks are undertaken, the general ledger may be affected 
accordingly. For example, reviewing and posting unposted transactions directly impacts the general 
ledger. 
