===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Monday, November 13, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 11 September minutes by Member Lloyd, Seconded by McGrath, approved by all. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) APDC Merger  
a. No support from Select Board, or citizens of the town.  No urge in pursuing the matter any longer. 
2) 50 Main Street 
a. The property owner has no motivation to repair. 
b. Will Select Board support a Demolition by Neglect on the property. 
c. Building is a main historical building in the heart of town.  The historical commission has had this 
property on the docket for some time. 
d. Will take resources to move forward to include a formal letter and invitation to the next APDC 
meeting. 
3) 763 Mass Ave 
a. Will be developed as a two family house and have town houses added on the front lawn.  
b. Town sent a certified letter to current owner, but was returned to sender as owner has moved with 
no forwarding address. 
4) Historical Commission 
 
a. Quota issue - Citizens have applied to join but did not show up to meetings.  Was not able to 
attend in person due to health concerns. 
b. Two others have applied but have not attended meetings. 
c. Comment from a citizen stated that historical homes or home in historical districts are hard to sell, 
but the data from the commission does not support that comment. 
d. A lot of misinformation about both the historical commission and APDC.  Member McGrath has 
stated that he will resign from his position on the APDC and submit this official letter to the Select 
Board. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
5) Warrant article 
a. Prior Select Board member had made a comment about the fact a legally checked and drafted 
article, should not be kept from the town for a vote. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, December 11, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 7:59 PM 