===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Conservation Commission
Ritter Memorial Builing
May 5, 2010
MINUTES
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Ken Jones, Jack Byme, John Lattanzi, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier
7:30 PM ~ Dan Paquette ~ Eagle Scout ~ Cowdrey Lot Bridge ~ Dan presented pictures of his work in rebuilding the bridge at
the Cowdrey. Rob signed his papers for Eagle Scouts.
7:40 PM ~ 262 New West Townsend Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by John C/Elizabeth A Wood (Angel May
Lehtonen of Northland Engineers). The proposed project is for a Title V Septic Repair. Angel presented. Requested that they
use just the silt fence and not hay bales, so as not to bring any strange grasses into the area. Commission agreed to silt fence
only which will be noted in the OoC. JJ/Ken Unanimous
7:55 PM ~ 64 Maple Parkway ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection
and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed Robert/Michael Page (Stephen Sears of David E
Ross Associates). The proposed project is for replacement of a failing Septic System. Dan Proctor presented. Small lot with
wetlands, will be using Presby System. No swale at property edge because they are more than 5' away from property line (6'):
Matt approved. Jack/Ken Unanimous
8:10 PM ~ 312 Townsend Harbor Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Melvin
Bertram The proposed project is for replacement of damaged fence, patio bricks and for construction of a 10' × 12' roofed
pavilion. Tom Bertram presented. Agreed to delete roofed pavilion. Negative 3. Ken/Jack Unanimous
8:25 PM ~ 11 Beachview Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection
and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on an Amendment to an Order of Conditions filed by Eric S/Stacey J
Manseau. The proposed amendment would move the drive from the right side of the house to the left. Eric presented.
Commission very pleased with the change, less negative impact, and more natural use of land. JJ/Ken Unanimous
8:40 PM ~ 10 Sunset Avenue ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection
and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Michael C Amburgey
The proposed project is to erect a screen house, on blocks, 17' from the water. The project is located at 10 Sunset Avenue.
Michael Amburgey presented. Matt recommended a Negative 3. Discussed project and made constructive suggestions. Ken/
Jack 4 Yes 1 No Approved
8:50 PM Miscellaneous ~ Whalom Lake Spillway, RFP, recommendation for permanent member of Commission, Sharon
(info), etc. Jan updated ConCom on Lake Whalom Spillway. Also passed out RFP from Matt for Pleasant Street. Sharon will
review. Sharon presented information on Robbs Hill and trails. Jim Lattanzi briefly met with ConCom on a bridge that needs
upgrading at Robb's Hill. He will take care of the rebuilding and Sharon will have the materials donated. Karen passed out fiyers
about use of Conservation Land. Jack and Rob met with Forester, from Maine, on Saturday and he stated that the area on Hollis
Road could generate some income. Selective cutting would improve the forest. He would divide it into 5 sections and cut only
one section at a time. Possibiity of generating $5-6000 a week. The timber is weighed to keep it fair between customer and
buyer. Right now the ConCom can only eam $5000 from forest cutting, and anything over that would go to the general fund, will
have to go to Town Meeting to have that changed.
