===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Conservation Commission
Ritter Memorial Building
July 7, 2010
Minutes
Rob Verge, Mark Murphy, JJ Cote, Rob Verge, Jan Carrier
7:30 PM ~ Kerry came to this meeting to informally discuss some issue and questions we have
had. Kerry first wanted to discuss the Woodruff Property and if any progress has been made on
the application. Jan will fill out what information is available to her and get it back to Kerry ASAP.
The Commission also had some questions regarding the article limiting the amount of monies
that could be spent ($5000). Kerry stated that could be changed by a request to the Finance
Committee. Also discussed some ideas regarding the Wood Lot cutting.
7:45 PM ~ 23 VALLEY ROAD ~ CONTINUATION ~ A few of the commission members went
for a walk/see thru on this property over the weekend. JJ gave an update as to the trees and
their location. All the trees are located in the wetland and there are approximately 75 they
would like to remove for solar panels. They will definitely have to file a Notice of Intent.
8:00 PM ~ HICKORY HILLS ~ Notice is given in accordance with the Massachusetts Wetland
Protection Act and the Lunenburg Municipal Wetlands By Law that there will be a public hearing on
a Notice of Intent by the Hickory Hills Land Owners Inc. for the implementation of a lake
management plan designed to improve the quality and habitat value of the lake. Various methods
such as Benthic Barriers, Harvesting, Hydro raking and Erosion control structures are being
proposed in the Notice. of Intent. Dave MacDonald and Tom Bertram presented info regarding
the management plans of the lake. The written and verbal reports were very in-depth and
they seem to have covered everything of interest and concern. There were 15-20 people that
came to the meeting and were all involved in sub-committees that contributed to the report.
Of special interest was the report of the group that walked the 28 (?) miles of the Mulpus
Brook. Jan will try to get a copy of this report (log). The Commission unanimously voted to
continue this hearing until August 4th so they all may have an opportunity to read the report.
