===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
11-29-10 jpc
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
MINUTES
November 3, 2010
Rob Verge, Rich Bursch, Mark Murphy, John Lattanzi, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, Sharon Jordan, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier
HEARINGS AND NEW INFORMATION FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT
7:15 PM ~ LUNENBURG VILLAGE ~ Gary Lorden to discuss footbridge ~ Gary discussed the possibility
of putting a footbridge over a wetland area. The ConCom was definitely against it. This was not a
hearing, just informational.
Sharon updated and gave us info on Park Watch and ATV's. A 4-H group might be interested in trail
work.
7:30 PM ~ 392 SUNSET LANE ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of
Applicability filed by Richard Tonole. The proposed project is for replacement of an existing railroad timber
retaining wall with stone/cement pavers. Only the wall will be replaced, no regrading or vegetation removal
proposed. No Show-will call
7:40 PM ~ MBTA RIGHT OF WAY ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Holly
Palmgren of M B TA (Lars Carlson of the Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc.). The proposed project consists of
bridge repair, track work and signal work within the existing right of way. Refer to Exhibit B for detailed
description. Mike Turgeon presented. A small amount of track will be shifted and replaced in several
sections. Reminded him to check on new gas line. He stated that there would be 52 square feet of
impact. SG-1 General Notes - Concerned about materials going into brook. He stated that they have
notified EPA and ConCom. National Heritage has been contacted regarding a trench of 60 feet long
and 30 inches deep. JJ/Rich Unanimous
7:50 PM ~ 7 OAKES LANDING ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Robert
W/Mary M Marchetti. The proposed project is for construction of a retaining wall to correct an erosion issue.
Would like to erect wall to protect wetland filter. The filter was a 301 Grant Project and was not
thought thru very thoroughly. JJ/Sharon
1 No 4 Yes
8:00 PM ~ 125 HOWARD STREET ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s. 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Gary T
Burton. The proposed project is for construction of a barn within the buffer zone.
Steve Marsden
presented. Barn will be used for a kennel only and part of it willo be inside the 100 foot buffer zone.
The ConCom had no comments or questions. Mark/Rich Unanimous
