===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES 
October 5, 2011 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 
7:00 PM  ~ 431 Townsend Harbor Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by John Sawyer .  The proposed project is to reduce slope on beach from a 
3 foot drop to a gradual slope.  This is for safety issues for grandchildren, aging and handicapped fam ily 
members.  Will be using soft, clean sand from land to water.  John Sawyer explained the project.  The 
beach area would only encompass 10 feet of the waterfront and slope down gradually.  The 
commission requested pictures so that they could better understand the scope of work.   
Rescheduled to October 19, 2011.  Matt will submit a Site Visit Report. 
 
7:10 PM ~ A request was received from Tom Bertram to meet wit h the Conservation Commission.  Tom 
requested permission from the Commision to use town owned property for the “Snowriders” club, as 
they have for many years.  He also requested permission to maintain the same areas, remove some 
trees and general cleanup of the trails.  All snowmobiles have a large yellow registration sticker on 
them and are easily recognizable.  The club is insure for $1,000,000 and will get Jan a copy of the 
insurance certificate.  
 
7:20 PM  ~ A request was received from resident Carl A. Luc k of 50 Sunset Lane to meet with the 
Conservation Commission.  Carl would like to discus s and understand the rules, process and procedures 
regarding work within the 30’ NO TOUCH ZONE and the 1 00’ BUFFER ZONE.  This was regarding 
replacement of a stockade fence between his and a neighbors property.  Matt will submit a Site Visit 
Report.  
 
7:30 PM  ~ 11 Beachview Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public meeting on a Request for Determination  of 
Applicability filed by Eric S./Stacy J. Manseau.  Th e proposed project is for removal of 15 pine trees and to 
build storage shed.  Eric briefly explained his project.  Some trees are dead or damaged.   Sharon/Rich   
Negative 3   Unanimous 
7:40 PM ~ David Rawlinson ~ Eagle Scout Project ~ Elevated walkway at Robb’s Hill Conservation Land.  
F Y  I 
 
7:45 PM  ~ Owner cancelled, requested to be put on agenda for October 19 
th .  A hearing will be held on 
1263/1275 Massachusetts Avenue in regards to violat ions and encroachment on Town owned land.  The 
property owner is Mark Flagg.   
 
8:00 PM  ~ Reservoir Road  ~ A hearing will be held on Keating's detention po nd in regards to a violation.  
The property owner is Keating Trust.  David Normandin (Keating’s) Steve Mulaney, Sam Ramodelli, 
Robert Viviano, Jim Normandin, Tom Fisk.  Discussion on water running into Shirley Village 
Reservoir (color, clarity, etc).  Commission members would like to go and view the scene.   
 
8:15 PM  ~ 520 Chase Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public meeting on a Request for Determination  of 
Applicability filed by the Town of Lunenburg.  The pr oposed project is for renovations to the existing b uilding 
and a new building to be erected within (barely) th e 200’ River Front Zone.   Jan displayed plan for view.  
Matt stated that there would be no problems within the area.  Mark/Sharon   Negative 3   Unanimous  