===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
 
Conservation Commission 
Minutes 
December 7, 2011 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, John Lattanzi, Sharon Jordan, 
 Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~ 386 Sunset Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic meeting on a Request for Determination of Appli cability 
filed by Richard Tremblay.  The proposed project is for replacement of a wooden stockade fence along t he property 
line.  Richard Tremblay explained fence placement along pr operty line.  Matt stated that it is exempt, citing  
section 10.02, in the 30’ no touch zone.  As long a s there is passage way for small animals, etc. it can go down to 
water’s edge.  Negative 3   JJ/Jack   Unanimous 
 
7:10 PM ~ 392 Sunset Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic meeting on a Request for Determination of Appli cability 
filed by Carl A. Luck.  The proposed project is for replacement of a wooden stockade fence along the p roperty line. 
Carl presented.  Fence will be placed within 6” of fence that was recently installed by neighbor.  Negative 3   
Jack/JJ Unanimous 
 
7:20 pm  ~ Jenn Tuomola  from North County Land Trust ~ Signatures and new report.   Jenn presented corrected 
reports 
 
7:30 PM ~ 146 Elmwood Road, Lot 2  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Notice of Intent filed by  Ronald 
LaPointe (Chris MacKenzie of Whitman & Bingham).  T he proposed project is for construction of a drivew ay 
crossing to the proposed single family home by upgr ading the existing wetland crossing.  Chris MacKenzie 
presented.  Area too small for replication, waived replication, only 6 square feet.  JJ/Jack Unanimous 
 
 
7:40 PM ~ 146 Elmwood Road, Lot 1  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Request for Determination  of 
Applicability filed by Rocco LaStella (Chris MacKenzie of Whitman & Bingham).  The proposed project is  for site 
grading related to the installation of a septic system, surrounding work area not less than 70 feet fr om the wetland.  
Chris MacKenzie presented.  Negative 3   JJ/Jack   Unanimous 
   
7:50 PM ~ 58 Spring Street Extension  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Notice of Intent filed by  Kevin 
MacNeill (Chris MacKenzie of Whitman & Bingham).  The proposed project is for an upgrade to a failed s eptic 
system. Chris MacKenzie presented.  Will  install a Presby system.    John/Sharon   Unanimous 
 
8:00 PM ~ 123 Hollis Road  ~ Jim Lattanzi 
Dicussed deed restrictions and what could be done t o release some of them.  Will need to work with North County 
Land Trust.   