===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
October 5, 2011 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting 
on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by John Sawyer. 
The proposed project is to reduce slope on beach from a 3 foot drop to  
a gradual slope.  This is for safety issues for grandchildren, aging and  
handicapped family members.  Will be using soft, clean sand from land to 
 water. The project is located at 431 Townsend Harbor Road.  
The meeting will be held at 7:00 pm.  
 
A request from resident Carl A. Luck of 50 Sunset Lane to meet with the 
 Conservation Commission.  The meeting will be held at 7:15 pm. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting 
on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Eric S./Stacy J. Manseau. 
The proposed project is for removal of 15 pine trees and to build storage shed.  
The project is located at 11 Beachview Road.  The meeting will be held at 7:30 pm.  
 
A hearing will be held on 1263/1275 Massachusetts Avenue in regards to  
violations and encroachment on Town owned land.  The property  
owner is Mark Flagg.  The hearing will be held at 7:45 pm. 
 
A hearing will be held on Keating's detention pond in regards to a violation. 
  The property owner is Keating Trust.  The area is located on Reservoir Road. 
  The hearing will be held at 8:00 pm. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting 
on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by the Town of Lunenburg. 
The proposed project is for renovations to the existing building and a new building to be 
erected within (barely) the 200’ River Front Zone.  The project is located at 520 Chase Road.  
The meeting will be held at 8:15 pm.  