===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lumenburg
Conservation Commission
MINUTES
March 21, 2012
7:00 PM
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Avenue
approved
5-16-12
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, John Lattanzi, Sharon Jordan, Mark Murphy, Karen Lefebvre, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier
7:00 PM ~ Leominster Shirley Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of
Applicability filed by Comell Robinson of Massachusetts Broadband. The proposed project is for installation of new
fiber optic cable in conduit via directional drilling within the roadway right of way. Mike Turgeon, Tess Pagnelli and
others from Jacob's Engineering presented. The commission was very pleased with their presentation.
Sharon/Rob Negative 3 Unanimous
7:10PM ~ 69 Island Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by
Donna C Albert. The proposed project is for installation of a removable dock system and raft/boat mooring within 50
feet of the shore. Ron Albert presented. Granite and wood base will be 5+ feet from the lot line as required by
Hickory Hills Lake Association. Mark/Sharon Negative 3 Unanimous
7:20 PM ~ 220 Page Street ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Peter McCarron. The
proposed project is for replacement of a failed sewage disposal system. Contractor explained that there will be a
small amount of grading within the 100' Buffer Zone. Matt recommended a standard OoG. Sharon/Rob
Unanimous
7:27 PM ~ 167 Townsend Harbor Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Henry
Chevrette. The proposed project is for repair of a septic system. No problem with presented plan. Standard
OoC Rob/Sharon Unanimous
7:35 PM ~ 100 Sunset Lane ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Glen Reinhardt. The
proposed project is for demolition of existing cottage and construction of a new single family home. Glen presented
plan for Nol. All Ok, just a question of the stairs going down to water, They will not be removed as of now
because it is the only way down a steep grade to the water's edge. Neighbor, Conrad Nuthmann, questioned
where the utilities were coming into the house. They will come from the road and the old lines on the lake
side of the property will be removed. Sharon/Mark Unanimous
7:50 PM ~ Off Pleasant & West Streets ~ CONTINUATION ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the
Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent
filed by EPG Solar, LLC. The proposed project is for construction of a Solar Photovoltaic Farm within the existing
farm field limits. New plans were presented and explained by Cal Goldsmith. They are still waiting for
comments from Jamie Rheault of Whitman & Bingham on the drainage. Matt and Cal will meet with Jamie
next week. There will be plantings within the 30' wetland areas with plants natural to the area, winterberry,
blueberry, etc. Coconut logs will be used to create drains across the slope on the left hand side of the
project. This will slow down and reroute some of the water going to bottom of the slope. Continued until
April 4th.
