===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES 
September 19, 2012 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, John Lattanzi, Sharon Jordan, Mark Murphy,  
 Richard Bursch, Karen Lefebvre, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:15 PM ~ 97 Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Timothy W./Jacquelin e C. 
Murphy.  The proposed project is for removal of several trees to access area to replace metal septic tank, also remove tree that  
overhangs the roof and one that is dying, thin trees to let larger healthy ones grow.   Tank is more than 100 feet from high 
water mark.  JJ/Sharon   Negative 3 Unanimous 
     
7:30 PM ~ 71 Main Street ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by S.J. Peacock Bu ilders, Inc.  The proposed project is 
for the development of a two family house lot.  Portions of the house and lot development are within the 100 foot wetland buf fer.  
Anthony Cleaves presented.  A small portion of the porch and drive are all outside the buffer zone.  A two to one slope 
will be retained to minimize the disturbance within the buffer and there will be no work within the 30 foot no touch zone.  
JJ inquired as to where the erosion control blanket will be placed.  It will be a wildflower and we ed mix not grass.  JJ 
reviewed the limit of work and cut which will not occur outside the hay bale line.  Matt stated a standard order will work 
fine.  Anna Lockwood of 91 Main Street noted that entire lot was not represented on the plan , concerned about the 
slope and distance from the pond.  She also noted part of an old stone wall that is to be removed.  JJ noted the concept 
of the buffer zone and how it related to the protection of the pond.  Janet Cragin of 3 Oak Avenue inquired about the 
water table.  JJ noted that the water table is not mentioned in the by laws and regulations.  Mr. Peacock indicated a 
willingness to work with Anna regarding the stone wall and water flow.  Jean Larkin inquired about weeds in the pond 
and what can be done to clean it up.  JJ further explained the ConCom’s jurisdiction to the abutters. A motion was 
made to Approve and Close.  Rob/Sharon     Unanimous 
 
7:45 PM ~4 Sequoia Drive, Lot 8 ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection 
and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Dennis LeBlanc.  The proposed project is for  a 
single family home with related site work and grading.  Chris MacKenzie represented the applicant and outlined the area of work 
in the buffer zone and how zoning dictated the location of the work.  He outlined the erosion protection and noted that the s eptic 
system itself is outside the buffer zone. 
 
Sharon and Rob both inquired as to the size of the house.  It is a four bedroom wi th approximately 200 square feet of living 
space.  I was also noted that the flow goes away from the wetland area both pre and post construction.  A motion was made to 
Approve and Close.  JJ/ John     Unanimous 
 
8:15 PM ~ 457 Massachusetts Avenue ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Jamie  
Rheault  of Whitman & Bingham Associates.  The proposed project is for installation of a Septic System within 100 foot wetland 
buffer.   Anthony Cleaves & Chris MacKenzie represented the applicant.  They outlined the buildings’ conversion to a no 
seat coffee shop.  There is no change to the impervious area just a new  Presby System only with no work in the no 
touch zone.  The majority of the work will be within the building.  A motion was made for a Negative 3.  Sharon/Mark          
Unanimous 
 
 
 
 
 
 