===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
 
AGENDA 
February 6, 2013 
 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, John Lattanzi, Shar on Jordan, Mark Murphy, 
 Richard Bursch, Karen Lefebvre, Matt Marro, Jan Ca rrier 
 
7:00 PM ~ 98 Horizon Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by Lisa Vecchi o.  The proposed project is for removal of a crumbli ng 
cement block wall and install a dry laid fieldstone  retaining wall for erosion control, install natura l stone 
steps and removable 10 x 12 dock.  
      
7:15 PM ~ 445 Townsend Harbor Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by William Emk ey.  The proposed project is for the replacement of  the 
existing dock with environmentally friendly product s. 
 
7:30 PM ~ 243 White Street  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Request for Determination  of 
Applicability filed by Sarah Camelo (William D. Han nigan of Hannigan Engineering, Inc.).  The proposed  
project is for construction of a second story on an  existing single family dwelling including installa tion of a 
sewer connection to the City of Fitchburg.  Limited disturbance within 100 foot buffer zone.  Local by law 
only. 
   
7:45 PM ~ 314 Townsend Harbor Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by Jack Rabbit t.  The proposed project is for replacement of an ex isting 
dock, two retaining walls and removal of four small  trees.       
 