===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes 12-3-2014   jpc   12-17-2014 
 
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES~APPROVED 12/17/2014 
 
December 3, 2014 
6:30 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rich Bursch, Tom Bertram, Matt Charpentier, Todd Dw yer, Sheila Holt, Jack Rabbitt, Brad Kennedy, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
CALL TO ORDER ~ 6:31 PM   
PUBLIC COMMENT ~ Brandon Kibbe ~ re:  Lane Property  contract signatures ~ Duplicate papers signed.  Brandon 
would like to meet with us again in January re: sign, handicap trail, forestry, open space, etc.  January 7 th   
HEARINGS 
7:00 PM ~ 40 Hemlock Drive  ~ CONTINUATION ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as ame nded and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Inten t filed by Malcolm 
Parker.  The proposed project is to increase patio s quare footage with wall to help, control and preven t erosion.  Need 
engineered plan showing changes from landscape plan.  Plan needs to show measurements, steps and other 
disturbance all within 30’ of high water.  The Parker’s were in agreement and will get new plans to the office and 
then a new hearing will be scheduled.  
7:15 PM ~ 322 Townsend Harbor Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by  Larry H King.  The 
proposed project is for replacement of an old wall to stop the erosion of land, replace existing dock that was damaged by 
ice.  Walls will be replaced with fieldstone and/or blocks.  Replace wall across front left, part of wall will be base 
for deck/dock, river rock to the right of wall.  Exclude upper wall, not a necessity.  Plantings to hold back soil 
near water.  Waiting for pictures to substantiate the old deck. 
Motion was made and approved to take the next three hearings in block form, due to time restraints.  Approved 
 
7:30 PM ~ 50 Elmwood Road, Lot 5  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Michael Crowley of Ernco 
Development, Inc. (Mark Piermarini of Whitman & Bin gham).  The proposed project is for construction of a single family 
home, a portion of the proposed work is within the 100' buffer zone and riverfront area, no work is pr oposed in the 30' no 
disturbance zone.  Approved  
7:45 PM ~ 50 Elmwood Road, Lot 6  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Michael Crowley of Ernco 
Development, Inc. (Mark Piermarini of Whitman & Bin gham).  The proposed project is for construction of a single family 
home, a portion of the proposed work is within the 100' buffer zone and riverfront area, no work is pr oposed in the 30' no 
disturbance zone. Approved  
7:55 PM ~ 50 Elmwood Road, Lot 7  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Michael Crowley of Ernco 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 12-3-2014   jpc   12-17-2014 
 
Development, Inc. (Mark Piermarini of Whitman & Bin gham).  The proposed project is for construction of a single family 
home, a portion of the proposed work is within the 100' buffer zone and riverfront area, no work is pr oposed in the 30' no 
disturbance zone. Approved  
8:05 PM ~ 701 R Reservoir Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic meeting on a Request for Determination of Appli cability filed by 
Ronald W/Roberta Wilson (Walter Godfrey of Godfrey Construction LLC).  The proposed project is for remo val of the old 
house and build new after storm damage per insuranc e company. Positive determination, need to file a Notice of 
Intent with engineered plan in same footprint only.  After NOI is filed a 30 day Emergency Certification will be 
issued for demo and new foundation.  
8:15 PM ~ 419 Sunnyhill Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic meeting on a Request for Determination of Appli cability filed by 
Benjamin Builders, Inc. (Gary Lorden). The proposed project is for determination of wetlands.  Positive determination 
will need to file Notice of Intent. 
8:25 PM ~ Sewer Extension Project  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by David Ma cDonald of the 
Lunenburg Sewer Commission (Charles Caron of Caron Environmental Consulting).  The proposed project is for 
installation of low pressure sewer force mains, all  within roadways, along Pine Grove Road, Lakeview A venue, Harris 
Avenue, Sunset Avenue, Pratt Street, Rennie Street and a portion of Cross Road.  New state regulations make filing 
for this project unnecessary. 
8:40 PM ~ 747 Flat Hill Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the To wn of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic meeting on a Request for Determination of Appli cability filed by 
Richard R. Runtagh.  The proposed project is for ins tallation of a new private water well.  Negative 3   
8:50 PM ~ 45 Birch Island Way  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Douglas Smith-Peterson & 
Susan White.  The proposed project is for removal of  an old concrete wall and reset granite pieces that  are already in place.  
Negative 3   
MINUTES APPROVAL ~ 11/5/2014 ~ APPROVED 
NEW BUSINESS ~ Brief discussion on stormwater, Anthony Cleaves showed plans to build 5 more units at Stone Farm to 
reach their quota.   
UNFINISHED BUSINESS ~  
SIGNATURES ~ 1 OoC, 4 DoA, 2 CoC ~ DONE  
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
NEXT MEETING ~ December 17 
th , 2014  
PUBLIC COMMENT 
COMMISSION COMMENT 
ADJOURNMENT ~ 9:45 PM 
 