===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES 
APPROVED 3-19-2014 
January 15, 2014 
 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, Sharon Jordan, John Lattanzi, Mark Murphy, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~ 2 New West Townsend Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Allan Foster.  The prop osed project is for construction of a single family  
home including grading, driveway and utilities.  Th is is for the grading and paving of an existing gra vel, shared driveway for access to two lots.  
Standard OoC recommended by Matt.  Note was made that the ConCom now prefers waddles over hay bales and also mandatory posting 
of Buffer Medallions every 30’-40’ or at the discretion of the ConCom..  Medallions are available at the ConCom office.  Unanimously 
approved. 
 
7:15 PM ~ 4 New West Townsend Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Allan Foster.  The prop osed project is for construction of a single family  
home including grading, driveway and utilities.  Standard OoC recommended by Matt.  Note was made that the ConCom now prefers waddles 
over hay bales and also mandatory posting of Buffer Medallions every 30’-40’ or sat the discretion of the ConCom.  Medallions are 
available at the ConCom office.  Unanimously approved. 
 
7:30 PM ~ 50 Elmwood Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws 
there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Inten t filed by Michael Crowley.  The proposed project i s for construction of a 750 foot roadway, a portion  
of the proposed work is within the 100’ buffer and 200’ riverfront zones, no work is proposed in the 3 0’ No Touch Zone.  Grading of area would 
include not only the driveway/road area but individual lots in preparation of building.  Area is zoned in two different classifications, needs 
to be shown on plans.  After grading is done is it going to be reseeded and trees replaced?  Have you looked at endangered species?  
Continued until February 5, 2014 @ 7:15 PM.    
 
7:45 PM ~ 64 Spring Street Extension ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Sandra J. Perko.  The proposed project is for 
removing a stone wall and replace with pre-manufact ured blocks while lake is in drawdown.  No problem, extending wall from neighbors wall to 
replace old (falling down) wall.  Area is 100’ or less.  Unanimously approved a Negative 3.  
 
8:00 PM ~ 39 Peninsula Drive  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws 
there will be a public hearing on an Notice of Inte nt by Mildred MacDonald.  The proposed project is f or install of a new Soil Absorption System, only 
work associated with the tank is within the 100 foo t buffer zone.  Unanimously approved.  
 
8:15 PM ~ 40 Page Street  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws 
there will be a public hearing on a Request for Det ermination of Applicability filed by Gerard Chabot.   The proposed project is for converting existing 
structure into a single family home and dividing th e existing parcel into two.  The work includes an a ddition to the existing structure and a sewage 
disposal system.  Work within the 100' buffer zone will include installation of a septic tank, pump ch amber, and foundation drain outlet and is greater 
than 50' from the wetlands.  The proposed construct ion will alter approximately 3,050 SF of the buffer  zone.  Negative 3 unanimously approved.  
 
8:30 PM ~ 305 Leominster Shirley Road  ~ CONTINUATION ~ Revised Plan ~ Revised plan met a ll the requirements of the ConCom.  Also 
mandatory posting of Buffer Medallions every 30’-40’ or at the discretion of the ConCom.  Medallions are available at the ConCom office.  
Unanimously approved. 
 
Miscellaneous ~  
Approve Minutes ~ 12/4  
Signatures 
 
FYI 
HANDOUTS 
 Grant Workshop  
 MACC Environmental Conference  
 Budget Review 
 Trail Accessibility Requirements 
Approval of land donation ~ 30 Rennie Street ~ Approved and accepted donation of land at 30 Rennie Street  
Elmwood Road Review ~ handled at hearing (7:30) 
Donated Property Abatements ~ Jan will file with Assessors  
Appointment with Selectmen for acceptance of donate d land ~ Sharon will set up appointment  
     801 Northfield Road 
     30 Rennie Street 
     781 Page Street 