===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 10 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
MINUTES
Ritter Memorial Building
690 Mass Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
7 P.M., Juiy 5, 2017
Call to Order - Mr. Dwyer acting Chair called to Order. BP, RB,KJ,JR present
Announcements
Public Comment- BP had a meeting with the treasure and detailed access MM now has and is working on what is
allowed regarding the trust accounts. JR spoke about the car show held the previous week. KJ spoke of the pollinator
habitat and that it appears to be doing well and growing well due to the cooperative weather.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a Request for A Determination. Work entails replacement of stone steps and adding gravel under a deck for
stabilization at 58 Hemlock Drive by Mark Pinard. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by
emailing Ico@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM. July 5, 2017 960
Mass Ave The public is invited to attend.
Mark Pinard appeared to represent himself. He oriented the commission to the project and its relation to the wetland. He
explained the need for the replacement of the steps. He expressed a desire to use a better granite based material. He explained
the need to gravel under the deck as there is no stabilization. The meeting was continued to allow the applicant to submit a plan
showing no expansion and adding measurements. BP noted that he would examine an expansion of the patio if it was permeable
pavers. The Commission noted they would perform a follow up site visit. On July 15, 2017. KJ moved to continue to July 19,
2017 at 7 PM in the Bilotta meeting Room, RB seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve the motion.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a Request for A Determination. Work entails grading for a septic system within the riverfront at 22 Boucher Road by
Joe Esposito. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling
978-582-4147ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@junenburgonline the
meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7PM. July 5, 2017 960 Mass Ave The public is invited to
attend.
The meeting was continued until the 19th of July, 2017 at the Bilotta meeting room at the request of the applicant by a motion of
RB. And a second by BP and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.
===PAGE 2===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a
CONTINUED public meeting on a request for a determination by Celico Partnership DBA as Verizon Wireless for work at 1079
Mass Ave will be held. Work entails the installation of a 75 foot monopole within the 100 foot buffer zone. Application and
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by
appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request by emailing Ico@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7PM. July 5, 2017 960 Mass Ave The public is invited to attend
The Commission has not received the plan as required. BP moved to continue and RB seconded and the Commission voted
unanimously to continue to July 1g'h at the Bilotta meeting room and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.
Documents presented to the Commission for Consideration was a Notice of Intent and a plan Entitled "Site Plan " by
Hannigan Engineering dated June 26 2017.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Michael Pirolli for work at 43 Island Rd. will be held. Work entails reconstruction of
a pre-existfing retaining wall within the Shore of Hickory Hills Lake. Application and supporting documents are available for
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option
on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM. July 5,
2017 960 Mass Ave The public is invited to attend
Chris Anderson appeared to represent Michael Pirolli. He reviewed the total history of the site with the commission and previous
meetings regarding the property held under enforcement. The Commission examined the evidence presented on a pre-existing
wall. The Commission stated satisfaction with the evidence presented and the diagram of remedial action. Motion to approve
with a standard Order of Conditions by RB with a second by KJ and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.
Documents presented to the commission for consideration was a Notice of Intent by Daniel and
Jean Proctor and a plan by Ducharme and Dillis with a final revision date of July 5 2017 (updated
after meeting final plans July 10, 2017)
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Daniel and Jean Proctor for work at 380, 390 and 400 Electric Ave will be neid.
Work entails construction of a car wash and bus parking area with a partial restoration of land within the 200 foot river front and
within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request
by emailing icc@/unenburgonline,, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM. July 5, 2017 960
Mass Ave The public is invited to attend
Greg Roy of Ducharme and Dillis presented updates to the commission of the plans and oriented the additional plantings and
modification to the plans for the addition of a swale for storm water management. Motion to issue a standard Order by BP and a
second by Ku and a unanimous vote of approve the motion.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a
CONTINUED public hearing to amend a Notice of Intent by Jeffry Viviano for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails
the placement of boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a
wetland resource area. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing ice@lunenburgonline,,
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960Mass Mass Ave on July 52017. The public is invited to attend.
Jeff Vivano appeared to the commission: Regarding the Dock he did go to the board of selectmen and they were not sure
what they needed to do for approval at that point in time. The Commission discussed a walking path to the dock and grass
surrounding the path. The Commission also spoke of stepping stones to be used. Mr Vivano noted he was going to plan grass
and did not have an intention of building a path. He discussed using a six by six to be a base for the dock. With respect to the
construction of the tree house. The Commission discussed the no touch zones versus elevation of the tree house as well as the
===PAGE 3===
ability of water to reach the ground underneath. It was noted that the esker the house itself is built on is very sensitive and there
was too many questions to impact of the wetland resource area. It did appear the Commission was divided in opinion. Mr Vivano
inquired as to an appeal process and it was noted that as it was a by-law issue an appeal would have to be filed in superior
court. It was noted that there was no location noted on the plans of where the proposed tree house would be located. They
asked him to come back with a plan.
The hearing with the applicants permission was continued to July 19th 2017 in the bilotta meeting room at 7 PM by a motion or
RB and a second by KJ and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.
Current Business
1.
Enforcement
183 Hemlock Dr - Continued from June 7 Continued to July 19
New Business -
Old Business -
Committee Reports -
Communications Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for July 19, 2017 at 7:00 PM In the Bilotta Meetig Room 2nd floor 17
Main Street
Public Comment For Meeting Close David King appeared and asked information of the commission with respect for 667
Reservoir and outlined several items they wanted to do upon buying the home. The retaining wall is already approved.
However he wishes to not plant grass and wanted to create a large beach. The Commission noted that they do not allow
new beaches but will be open to the re-establishment of an existing beach which is shown in historical ortho photos.
He also inquired about the placement of a boat house. The Commission noted they would not be in favor of a
permanent structure with the 30 and 50 foot no touch zones.
JR spoke about a resident that had a rolling dock installed prior to filing and RA and will be coming into the office to
file retroactively.
Adjournment The meeting was adjourned at 8:22 PM with a motion by BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote by
the commission to approve the motion.
