===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Catie Childs
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
RECEIVED & FILED
Town of Lunenburg
NOV 2 U 2017
Conservation Commission
LUNENBURG!!
CLERKET!::
HEMBURG
,MASS,
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
Town Hall Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor.
October 18, 2017
7 P.M.
minutes
Call to Order 7 PM -CL presiding RB participating remotely and all present except TD
Announcements
Public Comment BP informed the commission of the offered donation of 842 Rear Chace Road and outlined it's
borders. He outlined his conversation with the Town Manager and that the warrants (2) were being worked on. The
donation and tax forgiveness are the articles. Brandon Kibbe of the Open Space Committee weighed in and wanted to
make a motion on supporting the donation and working with the Town to facilitate all legal and financial obligations
associated with this donation. KJ seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
KJ noted that we mowed the field at the pollinator habitat in preparation for the winter. The Community pollinator
habitat also has Facebook page.
Jeremy Spring of 52 Ruth St. Life Scout presenting his eagle scout project. Pleasant Street Conservation area. He
outlined moving a boulder and standing it on its side and bolting a sign to the rock. Rehabilitate the gate with a lock. He
wishes to level and slightly expand the parking lot. Rake and clean a portion of the area and install benches to
commemorate Zachary Quinn, complete with a name plate commemorating his memory. KJ inquired when would the
work would be done. He suggested a site visit with the Commission.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Documents presented for Consideration was a WPA form 1 - request for a determination - and a modified sketch plan
by the applicant.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination of applicability for the replacement of an existing deck at 63 Peninsula Drive by Mark
and Dianne Erickson. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the
meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on October 18, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
The Ericksons came and represented themselves and outlined the project a like for like replacement. Cl indicated that it looked
pretty straight forward. There was only one sono tube needing replacement. BP moved for a negative determination JR
seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
===PAGE 2===
Documents presented for Consideration was a WPA form 1 - request for a determination - and a modified sketch plan
by the applicant.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination of applicability for the addition of a deck and the replacement of a brick walkway and
steps within the buffer zone at 455 Townsend Harbor Road by James Shearer. Application and supporting documents are
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is
also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street
2nd floor on October 18, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
James Shearer represented himself. He recounted the site visit from October 14, 2017. He outlined that the brick patio and
walkway. It was noted that there was 32 feet between the deck and the water. The granite steps will not be replaced. The Deck
will use trex and the walkway he is examining the use of porous pavers. CL examined with the applicant the proposed addition of
steps from the trex deck to the walkway. BP noted that the current patio to be replaced is impermeable and the new trex deck is
going to be semi permeable actually increasing the pervious area as a tradeoff. KJ also indicated agreement with the tradeoffs
as long as permeable pavers are used. BP made a motion for a negative determination with the condition that semi permeable
pavers could work. CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
Documents presented for Consideration was a WPA form 1 - request for a determination - and a modified sketch plan
by the applicant
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination of applicability for the addition of a car port within the buffer zone at 52 Pearl Street by
Scott Reinhardt. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the
meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on October 18, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
Mr. Rienhardt outlined the scope of work. KJ recalled the site inspection and noted that its already on impervious he had no
issues.KJ moved for a negative determination. CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination of applicability to determine if wetland resource areas are present on 425 West
Townsend Road by Lee Cooper. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request by emailing
Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on October 18, 2017. The
public is invited to attend.
MiM noted he waiked the land and did not find any resource areas and recommended a negative determination. KJ indicated he
examined a G/S and agreed. Ku moved to issue a negative determination. JR seconded and the commission voted unanimousiy.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED request for a determination by Michael Tufts for the construction of a paver patio and 2 decks within
the buffer zone at 48 Oak Ridge Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
Icc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on
October4, 2017. The public is invited to attend. Note : To be Continued until 11/1 at 7 PM for an administrative hearing.
KJ Moved to continue to November 1, 2017 with a notice of administrative hearing... BP seconded and the commission voted
unanimously. CC abstained.
Supplemental Storm water management and amended plans from the prior hearing were submitted by the applicant for
the Commission's consideration.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Settlers Solar for the construction of 6 megawatt solar field within the buffer
zone at 994 Northfield Road with a wetland crossing filling and replicating 1410 square feet of wetland resource area.
===PAGE 3===
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@unenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled
in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on October4, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
Rob Oliva appeared to represent the applicant. He outlined the revisions and noted the set at this meeting matches the planning
board. He outlined the changes to the plan He noted that the arrays have been moved in to give a larger buffer of 200 feet to the
abutters. He outlined those larger areas. He also outlined the areas to be stumped and not to be stumped. He outlined over an
acre of pollinator habitat added to the plans. He also outlined the revised comments by DEP. In regard to the topsoil he outlined
that there is an existing 6 inch loom layer and does not anticipate any trouble. The applicant stated that there could be Jute
matting on site. BP asked if that could be placed in the notes. An addition to the conditions could be added for Jute matting. JR
asked if there were additional panels. It was noted that it was actually reduced. The fall zone and shading areas were what was
taken into consideration with the clearing. CL asked about the color coding. MM inquired as to the phasing. The applicant will
submit a phasing schedule. The Commission discussed with the applicant options to closing and continuing. The conservation
restriction was brought up by the applicant. A proposed plan was shown and the applicant agreed to the restriction and is willing
to work with town counsel. KJ moved to continue. JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously. CC abstained.
Current Business
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and Fines). - new (n) and continuations (c)
183 Hemlock Dr (c) - Update - Commission asked MM to have the owner stake off the corners of the
70 Oak Ridge Road (c) -Update/Inspections - total stop work only to be lifted once fill is gone and the
erosion protection is lifted blocks gone and total plans completed.
571 Chase Road (c) - Update on Release tracking information- MM noted the item has been closed by
MassDEP
North Leominster Rod and Gun Club (n) -update on DEP response- DEP has inspected and has no
issues.
168 West Street (n) - Violation The owner Barbara Battle appeared before the commission. They
outlined that the work by the river was the removal of a tree. MM had noted the earth work by the
stream. MM suggested that a site inspection be held. The owner agreed. Site inspection set for the
28th of October at 8 AM
New Business - 994 Northfield Road Update( If any) on Conservation Restriction See hearing for Settler's Solar
Old Business - new member recruits - updates The Commission Welcomed Catie Childs to her first meeting.
Certificates of Compliance - Stone Farm -certificate issued
899 Flatt Hill Road- Certificate issued
Extension Permit - None presented for consideration
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of - 9/20 and 10/4 KJ moved to approve the 10/4 minutes bp
seconded and the commission voted unanimously (CC abstained) 9/20 shall be taken up at the next meeting
Committee Reports -JR updated on GIS software for storm water fallouts
Agents Report /Action Items :
Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant -check with town counsel
: Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road'-mm reported the site is under enforcement from planning for
storm water. To check on site for erosion control.
• Status of Inspections 667 and 675 Reservoir
• Status of Inspections 93 Whalom Road
• Forest Cutting Plan progress.
• Legal Updates and Requests -Fines, Majority and policy development
Communications / Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for November 1, 2017 at the Ritter Land Use Building
Public Comment For Meeting Close. - BP received a communication concerning the Peter Charpentier Bridge will be
Saturday 10/28/17 at 11:30 AM.
Adjournment at 9:15pm by a motion of KJ and a second by CC
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED FOR THIS MEETING ARE AVAILBLE AT THE COMMISSION OFFICE
