===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
                                    MINUTES 
      Wednesday, June 7 2017 7:00 PM regular meeting  
 960 Mass Ave Ritter Memorial Library 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
Call to Order 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment TB noted it is his last meeting as a commissioner. The commission wished him well. JR spoke about 
storm water cruise night June 14,2017. CL noted Selectmen approved giving rain barrels and compost bins. 
   
Kevin McGinnis of 119 Reservoir Road presented the commission with a proposal for use of the rear section of his 
property. His plans included extending a lawn and wild plantings. TB reminded the commission about the deed 
restriction and the lawn. CL spoke about the lawn not being shaped not in accordance with the plan. MM feels the as 
built should be submitted and will speak with the builder about it. The Commission will continue to work with him 
pending the as-built. 
 
393 Arbor Street the owner wanted to come in and build a tree house. TB mentioned that because we don’t have 
anything that regulates a tree house. MM recommended the filing of an RDA to the commission. With the Commission 
being split in opinion there should be an RDA submitted.  
 
 Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Robin LaTouche for work at 1134 Northfiled Road will be held. Work entails the 
installation of a swimming pool (above Ground) within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the 
Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7, 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
Documents presented to the commission was the Determination FORM 1 By Robin LaTouche and a modified 20 scale 
plan by the applicant dated May 2017. 
 
Chris LaTouche representing himself oriented the commission as to the site and the work. M recommended a negative 
determination, TB moved to issue a negative number 3. CL seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Gerald Croteau for work at 55 Wildwood Road will be held. Work entails the 
construction of a post and beam barn within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area .Application and supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial 
Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
===PAGE 2===
 
This meeting was re-scheduled to June 21, 2017 due to an issue with abutter notification, the meeting could not be opened.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Lunenburg DPW for work the corner of Northfield and Chase to the town line at 
Route 13 will be held. Work entails the repaving within the 100-foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the 
Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Documents presented to the commission was the RDA by World Tech and a modified ortho photo plan by World Tech 
dated May 2017. 
 
Kevin Surette representing MASSDOT appeared and explained this project, and the relation to the wetland to the commission. 
This is a safety and maintenance protect. He noted that in the intersection of Chase Road the riverfront of the Mulpus brook and 
the improvements was the installation of the guardrail. He outlined the erosion protection. JR asked with storm water 
considerations how regrind or dust would be kept on site. This would be accomplished by silt socks in catchment areas to trap 
sediments.TD examined the extent of the filter socks and recommended some modifications. TB also made a recommendation 
of a modification to the erosion protection, especially in proximity to the Mulpus. 
 
The Commission issued a negative with a motion of TB and a second of CL and a unanimous vote. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Daniel and Jean Proctor for work at 380, 390 and 400 Electric Ave will be held. Work entails 
construction of a car wash and bus parking area with a partial restoration of land within the 200 foot river front and within the 100 
foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation  
Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on March 1, 2017. The public is 
invited to attend. 
  
Documents presented to the Commission for Consideration was a Notice of Intent by Daniel and Jean Proctor and a 
plan by Ducharme and Dillis Entitled “Proposed Site Plan”, Dated May 18, 2017 plan number 5456.  
 
Greg Roy appeared before the commission and explained the project and oriented the commission of the proposal and it’s 
relationship to the resource areas. He outlined each portion of the project, its location on the property and the adjacent re source 
areas. He outlined the riverfront and the river front locations and limits on site. Mr. Roy then outlined the restoration proposal as 
mitigation for the proposal. It was noted that buses and structures in the 30 foot no touch zone shall be removed from the ar ea 
and that portion of the site restored. He outlined the addition of the entrance/exit islands and why they were required. The 
building is not within the 50 foot no touch. Storm water will be managed by an infiltration system. Currently there is no treatment 
on the site at al. The new bus parking is gravel. Flows off that portion of the site will go to a detention area and will be settled out 
and treated. Mr Roy explained the snow storage area and the replanting plan (species). The Commission feels the plan as 
presented is satisfactory however with no DEP number the meeting was continued to June 21 with a motion by CL and a second 
by JR.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Daniel and Jean Proctor for work at 331R Burrage Street will be held. Work entails construction 
Completion of a driveway access within the 100-foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial 
Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Documents presented to the Commission for Consideration was a Notice of Inte nt by Daniel and Jean Proctor and a 
plan by Ducharme and Dillis Entitled “Proposed Driveway Plan”, Dated May 19, 2017 plan number 1051P. 
 
Greg Roy appeared before the commission and noted that this is a refiling of an expired order. He reviewed that the proposal is 
for a single-family home and the filing is for the driveway with some drainage remediation. Mr. Roy outlined the portion of the 
===PAGE 3===
access drive that has been graded and is ready for paving. Culverts and rip rapped areas are added to allo w for the drainage to 
be mitigated. 
 
Robert Parent of Page Street was examining the house location. Claire Jancaitis from 315 Burrage reviewed the location of the  
proposed driveway and slope. TB examined stabilization techniques on the steep slope area. CL  expressed concern about 
concentrating the flow in two areas and its effects on potential erosion. Mr, Roy explained that the addition of the rip rap will 
attenuate the potential for the water to cause erosion. Alternative measures in addition to rip rap was examined. Placing a plunge 
pool was also examined. Mr. Roy noted he could place it out of the 30 foot no touch zone. An order of conditions was approved  
with the addition of a level spreader in place of the original rip rap. This was approved by a motio n of TB and a second by CL 
with a unanimous vote 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent. Work entails installation of a new septic system and a gara ge addition at 12 Johnson Street by 
Monica Farley. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling  
978-582-4147ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting is scheduled in the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7 2017. The public is 
invited to attend. 
Documents presented was a Notice of Intent by Monica Farley and a plan by David E. Ross 
Associates entitled “ Site Plan” as a 20 Scale dated May 26, 2017 plan number L-13204. 
 
Monica Farley representing herself. TB asked for addition of erosion control and TD agreed. TB moved to 
issue standard order of conditions. CL seconded and the commission voted unanimously (it was noted 
erosion protection is in the standard order and will be applied to this site) 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Mun icipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by CONTINUED Nancy Sullivan  for work at 28  Birch Island Way  will be held. Work 
entails the removal of trees within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass 
Ave on June 7 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Document presented for Consideration was a revised sketch plan by the Conservation 
Administrator dated June 2017 and accompanying photos. 
 
MM outlined the revised drawing showing the trees to be cut based on site walks.  The Commission issued 
a negative determination by a motion of TB and a second by CL.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Munic ipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public hearing to amend a Notice of Intent  by Jeffry Viviano  for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails 
the placement of boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a 
wetland resource area. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , 
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Continued at the applicant’s request to the next meeting. As CL recused, there was no quorum to consider this matter and as  
such was re-scheduled to the next regular meeting on June 21 st.  
 
Current Business      
1. Signatures on documents to be issued. 
2. Certificates of Compliance – 
3. Enforcement  
 
 43 Island Road Continuation from  May 17 – MM noted that notice of intent has been filed as required 
===PAGE 4===
 183 Hemlock Dr – Continued from May 17 to the next meeting. 
 Emerald Place Beach Erosion Continued from May 17 – MM to notify of potential fines in a letter if not 
present at the next meeting 
 72 Page- Robert Ullo – resolution achieved- matter closed 
 National Grid- Resolution achieved- matter closed 
 
New Business –  Commission opening for TB’s spot. Candidate’s listed in talent bank notified 
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementation – Gary Gouldrup will appear at the next meeting to discuss 
the formulation of an RFP. 
                             
              
Approval of 3/1,3/15,3/29, 4/5 5/3, 5/17 minutes – on hold until next meeting due to low attendance. 
 
Committee Reports – 
 Holman St property program 
 Storm water Committee Report 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : ( Placed on hold until next meeting due to low attendance) 
 
 675 & 667 Reservoir Road status of inspections 
 Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant 
 Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road 
 Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 6/21/17 meeting 
 
CommunicationsMeeting Schedule- Next meeting for June 21, 2017  at 7:00 PM In the Billotta meeting room 2nd floor 
Town Hall 17 Main Street 
Public Comment For Meeting Close. 
Meeting adjourned at 9:10 PM by a motion of JR and a second by TB 
 
 
 
 