===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, April 5, 2017 7:00 PM regular meeting  
Ritter Memorial Land Sue Building 
960 Mass Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
Call to Order – The meeting started at 7 PM with Chairman Bursch presiding with all members present except Vice Chair 
Dwyer. 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment- TB looking to start walks in the woods. Will send update for the website . 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by William and Rosina Emkey for work at 445 Townsend Harbor Road will be held. Work entails the 
installation of an addition within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents a re 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass 
Ave on April 5 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR COMMISSION CONSIDERATION WAS THE NOTICE OF INTENT FORM AND A MODIFIED 
DRAWING MY THE APPLICANT DATED MARCH 2017 
 
Steve Sunstrom representing. He reminded the Commission of the positive determination and reviewed the 
placement of the addition. TB wanted a more specific plan showing the 30 and 50 foot zones and wanted to 
have them added to it. After some discussion, JR moved to continue to the next meeting and a standard 
order ready to be signed subject to the applicant meeting the expectations of the additions to the plan. CL 
seconded and the commission approved with the exception of TB who voted no. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing to amend a Notice of Intent  by Jeffry Viviano  for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails the placement of 
boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on April 5, 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
 
NOTE: COMMISSIONER LUCK RECUSED AND LEFT THE TABLE.  
 
 
DOCUMENT PRESENTED FOR THE COMMISSION CONSIDERATION WAS A NARRATIVE MASTER 
PLAN WITH EXHIBITS BY THE APPLICANT DATED APRIL 2017 
===PAGE 2===
Jeff Viviano presented the commission with a plan for amend his existing OOC to place a rock retention 
system, planning of lawn, swales and a dock. He outlined the areas to the commission and the relationship 
to the wetland (lake). It was also noted that there was a tree house proposed on the point. The remaining 
work proposed on the amendment will be done at the drawdown. RB noted that he was concerned about 
continuing development along the 30-foot zone and said a limited walkway may be acceptable. Mr. Viviano 
noted in some of those areas there is a sever erosion problems and the proposed work would stabilize. RB 
noted that placing native vegetation is preferable to lawn. TB had no issue with grass up to the 30 foot no 
touch zone. He also had no issue with the dock. JR asked for more detail of the tree house and the walk 
way. RB also expressed concern with the shed in the 50 foot zone. TB noted there is no foundation and in 
his opinion is acceptable. RB noted that the added shed would cause additional impervious surface. RB felt 
it the property development was fairly maximized. TD noted he was comfortable with the idea of a dock for 
boat storage on the north side. KJ noted that he agreed with a dock and a reduced walkway and a tree 
house with no footings. BP also agreed the grass should not be in the 30 foot and the shed should not be in 
the 50. He has no issue with the second dock. The Commission asked for the revisions based on it’s 
concerns. TB reiterated he feels strongly the dock should be allowed and recommended looking at a dock 
pertaining to limits and size in the commission’s regulation. TD made a point that the tree house is within 
the 50 foot zone and the commission should think about the issue of the no structure zone. The issue of a 
floating raft in the lake as the lake is town property as well as the placement of a boulder needs to be 
researched further. The meeting was continued to the 19th  of April with a motion of TD and a second by JR 
and a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing to amend a Notice of Intent  by The Lunenburg Water District  for work at 496 Mass Ave will be held. Work entails the  
construction of a building/garage facility and a portion of the driveway within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on April 5, 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
 
RB declared to the commission that his brother is a water commissioner however, has no financial interest and 
therefore he does not have to recuse. 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED AT THE MEETING WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT AND A PLAN ENTITLED DEFINITIVE PLAN 
FOR 496 MASS AVE DATED MARCH 7, 2017 PLAN NUMBER 4-L-976 
 
Anthony Cleaves represented the applicant and outlined the location of the project, the appurtenances and the relation to the  
wetlands and the 30 and 50 foot by-law zones. He noted that the only work in the outer 50 feet of the 100 foot buffer zone is the 
proposed access driveway. All other work is out of the buffer zone. He outlined the storm water and related grading. BP 
examined the outfall and the receiving pipe under the road to ensure that the pipes can take the flow. Mr Cleaves reviewed the 
storm water flows and noted that the basin can handle a 25-year storm. It would outflow above a 25-year storm. Below that storm 
it would exit the basin in a 12 inch culvert outletting from the basin. JR reviewed the portion of the drive in the buffer zone to 
ensure the flow would be evenly attenuated and not result in flooding of the wetland . RB examined the erosion barrier detail 
sheet of the plans to ensure that there are no other issues. MM noted a comment from DEP to ensure the detention basin has a 
sufficient offset to ground water. I was noted by Mr. Cleaves that soil testing was done on March 7, 2017 confirming that the  
offset has been met. The Public had no comment. BP moved to approve the plan as presented. CL seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously. 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Jonathan Boyd for work at 121 Peninsula Drive will be held. Work entails clearing 
of trees and remedial landscaping near a single family home within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area 
.Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 
===PAGE 3===
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on April 5 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Meeting was continued to 4/19/17 by motion of BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote . 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED request for a determination by The woodlands At Hickory Hills Board of Trustees for work at 208 
Northfield Road will be held. Work entails vegetation management and the installation of dock and a kayak rack structure with in 
the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on April 5, 2017. The 
public is invited to attend. Note : BP and TB recused and left the table 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS THE ORIGINAL FORM 1 AND THE AMENDED NARRATIVE AS 
REQUESTED BY THE COMMISSION AT THE MEETING OF MARCH 1, 2017.  
 
Sandra Habe reviewed the changes presented to the request for a determination and outlined them for the commission. JR 
inquired if existing docks will be maintained. The answer was yes. CL inquired if the pavers outlined for the future not included in 
this proposal would require a notice of intent. RB noted that it would as a waiver would be required. JR was examining the 
placement of Kayaks. It was noted that existing storage will continue and that a rack would be added. It would be kept off the 
ground in a range from 10 to 12 inches. JR examined the use of the area where the Kayaks are stored and potential expansion 
of activity. Sandra Habe noted that if the use changes they would h ave to come back. JR was looking to ensure that pathways 
would be maintained. RB noted that we has sufficient documentation to maintain that. Anne Denny Brown noted that the small 
dock should be removed every fall and no boats would be berthed. It was note d that the revised RDA prohibits overnight 
docking. Jack Denny Brown noted the RDA states there is a path between 15 and 17 wintergreen and there actually is not one 
there. Joan Pease 11 wintergreen noted it is actually a natural path. Anne Denny Brown not ed that the arial photos in her opinion 
do not show the crown cover adequately and should have more pictures showing the leaves. CL moved for a negative 
Determination. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Gougen Construction for work at 675 Reservoir Road will be held. Work entails the 
demolition and construction of a single family home, the installation of driveway and a septic system within the 100 foot buf fer 
zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on April 5 2017. The public is 
invited to attend.  
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REVISED PLAN BY HANNIGAN 
ENGINEERING ENTITLED EXISTING CONDITIONS PLAN DATED MARCH 29, 2017 PLAN NUMBER C-
12-24 
 
Chris Anderson outlined the changes proposed from the last meeting as requested by the commission. This 
was proposed to protect the remainder of the shoreline from wake disturbance to be placed in lieu of the 
additional fines. There is also live dogwood stakes. Cl was hoping for more of a vegetation buffer and was 
concerned about the remainder of a shoreline turning into a beach. Chris Anderson noted it would be a 
loomed and seeded area to the waters edge. There is a removable dock also proposed. The scheduling of 
the landscaped area was also discussed. They had proposed a group of plantings 2 to three feet apart with 
a 20 percent diversity. Plantings will be scheduled as soon as the Order is  issued and the appeal period 
expires. Erosion protection needs to be added to the entrance and the curb cut and replication will be done 
after the remediation. CL examined the contouring. It was determined that the slopes will be loomed and 
seeded. TB wants the words stone wall removed. It will be changed to banking remediation. CL examined 
===PAGE 4===
the proposal and wording to ensure that there will be growth established in the bank remediation and that 
the details of live staking is shown and called out in the Order of Conditions. 
 
CL Moved to continue. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
Current Business      
1. Signatures on documents to be issued. 
2. Certificates of Compliance  
3. Enforcement  
 
 43 Island Road Continuation from 2/1/17 MM noted the survey crew is going out there next week to do 
an as-built to determine a notice of intent scope.  
 675 Reservoir Road – see above 
 183 Hemlock Dr Continued until April 19, 2017 
 Emerald Place Beach Erosion Continued from 2/1/17 Anthony Cleaves noted to the commission that 
he has been onsite during rains and is anticipating a document to the commission in time for the 
next meeting. 
 
 
New Business –             
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementation – discussion of Goals and other items related to grant- The 
Commission is reviewing and will finish before the first hearing in May. KJ has revie wed the plans in depth and was 
satisfied. The Commission will, after final issue of the plan look to hold a public forum on these plans.  
 
                            Determination of fines 101 Pleasant Street- MM has not received a response. He will refer to Adam for  
            further action. 
              
Approval of 3/1,3/15,3/29 minutes  
 
Committee Reports – 
 Holman St property program 
 Storm water Committee Report 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
 Budget Update- The commission reviewed the items discussed with the town manager at the Marc 29, 2017 
meeting. The Commission appointed BP as a treasurer for the commission. This was done by a mo tion from 
JR KJ seconded and the commission approved unanimously.  
 Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 4/19/17 meeting- MM reviewed the upcoming hearings 
 Appeal on 120 West Street SOC- MM reviewed the SOC DEP issued affirming the original commission 
order.  
 
 
Communications 
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for April 19, 2017 at 7:00 PM In the Billotta meeting room, second floor, Town Hall, 17 
Main Street,Lunenburg, MA  
Public Comment For Meeting Close. KJ reviewed the list of open parcels currently in tax title and noted some parcels 
that would give the commission better access to exiting town open spaces.  
Adjournment THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED AT 9:50 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by CL. 
 
 
 
ALL DOCUMENTS CITED ARE AVAILABLE AT THE CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE  