===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
NEMBURG
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 10 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
IN CORPORAT
MINUTES
August 2nd, 2017
7:00 PM 960 Mass Ave
Ritter Memorial Building
AGENDA
Call to Order
Announcements
Public Comment BP spoke to Adam about accessing the LIDAR for contours, Adam informed him that the 2 foot layers
will be available coming soon for free.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Scott and Colleen Miller for the Construction of a single family home with a driveway within the
buffer zone at 120 Goodrich Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Building 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. The public is invited to attend.
Documents presented for consideration was a Notice of Intent and a plan entitled "Sewage Disposal Plan for 120
Goodrich Street" by Ducharme and Dillis dated June 16, 2017. Plan number 5477-SDS as a 20 Scale Plan.
Jack Maloney represented the applicant He outlined the project to the commission and oriented them to the site in relation to the
wetland. He outlined differences to the previous plan that had an expired order on it. It was noted the work would be outside of
the 50 foot zone RB ensured the shape of the house outline is going to be built as shown. JM noted yes. CL examined the runoff
scenario with the applicant and any differences. It was noted that a small retaining wall will be built on one side of the drive and
the basement floor will be a walkout. RB wanted the 50 foot demarcated. The applicant agreed. A motion was made to issue an
Order with the fifty foot demarcation added by KJ. BP seconded and the commission voted unanimousiy.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by Tim Murphy of 97 Island Road Road for the placement of a Dock within the buffer
zone at 97 Island Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request by emailing ico@lunenburgonline the
meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Building 960 Mass Avé at 7:00 PM. The public is invited to attend.
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination and a scaled hand sketch plan by the
applicant dated August 2017.
Mr.Murphy showed the commission where the dock is and that there would be no impacts as it is a rolling dock. He asked if he
could add a 5 foot section. KJ recounted the site walk to the commission and viewed it as no impacts and has no issues with the
===PAGE 2===
addition of 5 feet. A motion to issue a negative determination by TD and a second of CL with the added 5 feet. The Commission
voted unanimousiy to approve.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by Eric and Stacy Manseau of 11 Beachveiw Road for the placement of a solar panel
system within the buffer zone at 11 Beachview. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request
by emailing Ico@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on July 19,
2017. The public is invited to attend.
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination and a scaled hand sketch plan by the
applicant dated August 2017.
MM showed the commission based on plans for the property that the arrays proposed were 60 feet away from the wetland. RB
asked to do-draw the trench and it was shown to also not be in the 50 foot zone. The arrays will have four interior posts falling
under the foot print of the array. The Commission issued a negative determination by a motion of BP and a second of TD with a
unanimous vote.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Profection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by New England Clean energy for the placement of a solar panel system within the
buffer zone at 39 Old Farm Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on July 19, 2017. The public
is invited to attend.
Documents presented for consideration was an amended request for a determination and a Modified plan by Ducharme
and Dillis Dated July 2017.
Chris Stokes represented himself as a homeowner. It May move over to the property line. It was noted that the current conditions
was all lawn. It would sit on four posts within the foofprint of the array and the trench may be moved to the rear yard. The
homeowner marked on the plans the approximate location of an alternative french in the rear of the house. TD moved to issue a
negative determination BP seconded and the commission voted unanimousiy.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by John Harrison for the construction of a driveway and a small portion of a single
family home within the buffer zone at 225 Sunset Lane. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request
by emailing icc @lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on July 19,
2017. The public is invited to attend.
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination and a Plan by Rosemary Chaulk, RLS entitled
"Notice of Intent/ Wetland Plans" as a 20 scale dated May 24, 2017
Tina Harrison representing her husband John Harrison after examination of the plans the commission requested the location of
the driveway be moved to the fire road to get that portion of the work out of the buffer zone. It was noted by TD that he was
concerned about the original location of the driveway. The commission agreed to continue the hearing to allow the applicant to
change the plan. Also, excavation will be done from the Southside of the lot so as not to disturb the knoll towards the lakeside.
The applicant agreed. The meeting was continued to the 16th of August by TD and a second by Ku with a unanimous vote to
approve the motion.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Request for A Determination. Work entails replacement of stone steps and adding gravel under a
deck for stabilization at 58 Hemlock Drive by Mark Pinard. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
===PAGE 3===
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by
emailing icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM. July 5, 2017 960
Mass Ave The public is invited to attend.
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination and a scaled hand sketch plan by the
applicant dated August 2017 modified by hand measurement by the Conservation Commission and the applicant.
Mark Pinard appeared on his own behalf and it was noted that there was a measurement performed by the commission and MM
and marked on the plans and the steps will be replaced in the same rough dimensions with consistent sizing. The commission
issued a negative determination by a motion of Ku and a second of JR with a unanimous vote.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a
CONTINUED public hearing to amend a Notice of Intent by Jeffry Viviano for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails
the placement of boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a
wetland resource area. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request by emailing icc@lunenburgonline.
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on July 52017. The public is invited to attend.
NOTE: Carl Luck recused himself as a member of the commission for this proceeding: Documents presented for
consideration was a Notice of Intent amendment proposal and a scaled hand sketch plan by the applicant dated August
2017 modified by hand measurement by the Conservation Commission and the applicant.
Mir. Vivano came to the commission representing himself. It was noted that there was no structure or location drawn on the plans
despite repeated requests. It was noted the dock and shed were agreed upon. BP move to accept plan with the dock and shed
with TD seconding (the tree house was left ouf of the motion). The motion was unanimously approved. There was a second
motion by KJ and a second by BP for a denial of the tree house with a vote to approve with Mr. Luck recusing from participation
and TD voting against the motion.
Current Business
1. Enforcement
183 Hemlock Dr - Continued from BP Noted that there was exiting structures and we will be on 8/12
to inspect.
48 Oak Ridge Road - The owner will be reapplying a new determination and MM will help with the
application.
70 Oak Ridge Road - Jamie Rheault appeared before the commission he presented and reviewed the as- built progress
print of the wall. Andrew Leonard is going to do a landscape plan for re-planting trees. CL indicated he wanted to see
some sizable trees to be planted as replacement. Jamie Rheault noted he would take 2.5 feet off to bring the wall back
to the original height/elevation. CL examined the plans used in the original approval and utilized contours. He felt it
may need to be lower. Mr. Rheault stated the blocks in place are 16 inches and that removing 2 blocks would bring it 2
inches lower that the existing wall. After some discussion the commission decided to remove the 2 blocks the
terminus of the wall will also be staked so the grades can be matched and will mulch the area until such time as the
landscape architect will design a planting plan and file a notice of intent. He should have a notice of intent and the
blocks removed by the beginning of September. CL moved to fine the contractor Eric Cipooma, subject to verification
by Town Counsel for 300 dollars per violation for three violations as determined by MM, or $900 total. - TD seconded
and the commission voted 5-1 with Mr. Pease voting against the motion. Mr. Rheault commented that if we were going
to fine contractors that owners should also be fined. There was no discussion on this suggestion.
New Business -
Old Business - Meeting with Consulting Forester - Update MM updated that the Town Hall has been secured for the
30th of August at 6:30 PM and Tom Bertram has agreed to lead a walk in the woods on 8/26.
Committee Reports -
Agents Report /Action Items :
• Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant - there has been no movement (MM)
===PAGE 4===
• Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road - MM noted the lawns on lots 4 and 5 are slightly larger and he is
working with Brian Marchetti on the remaining lots for the adjustments to the riverfront so the total alteration
is not exceeded
Status of Inspections 667 and 675 Reservoir - the planning board is giving a special permit for flood plain
work according to MIM and the project is progressing as the Order intended. He has not yet received the
request for amendment from the new owner of 667 Reservoir.
Lake Shirley - The Commission discussed the responses to commission inquiries by Ken Wagner and
Dominic Meringolo with concern to the treatment, the testing justifying and the locations.
Communications Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for August 16th at the Bilotta Meeting Room Town Hall 2nd Floor at
7:00 PM
Public Comment For Meeting Close.
Adjournment The meeting adjourned at 9:35 PM with a motion of KJ and a second by CL.
