===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
RPORAT
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 10 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
MINUTES
Billotta Meeting Room, Second Floor Town Hall
17 Main Street (revised)
Lunenburg, MA 01462
7 P.M., July 19, 2017
In accordance with the reguirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
Public Access channeL.
Call to Order RB Chairing the meeting called at 7PM with RB, CL,TD and JR attending
Announcements
Public Comment - CL spoke about Lake Shirley noted that he has seen potential violations going on around the lake
and expressed concerns about reporting them as he has both been publicly criticized for reporting his neighbors and
had letters sent to the Ethics Commission about him not reporting violations. Public Education outreach he feels is the
key. He feels that the LSIC has a great and he suggests asking the LSIC to work with the commission on a mailing and
perhaps a publication on the website. JR expressed a similar issue with living on Hickory Hills Lake. JR noted that they
have a lake association he goes to in order to have the association facilitate a filing. TD stated that if he sees something
it should be reported to MM for evaluation and he will report if there is an enforcement action to pursue. Ashley Braun
said she also is involved with the LSIC Face Book page and volunteered to help with the LSIC disseminating
information. MM volunteered to prepare some information for the LSIC to post.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
APPOINTMENT LSIC - UPDATE - A vegetation survey was completed on 7/5 and presented the the proposed treatment
areas that had both a plant density greater than biomass factor 3 and density greater than 3 in either this survey or the
fall 2016 survey. Domenic reviewed the map the data points and the significance of the data points. The amount to treat
shows to be 90 acres to be treated with reward and a small amount of copper sulfate. RB inquired if 95 acres was the
amount treated last year as appeared by the map. The answer was yes and it was geared to curly leaf pondweed. The
tape grass and the Niad will be the focus of this year. JR inquired if Niad is affected by drawdown. It was not as it is a
more seed based. Copper was not used last year but is proposed this year in case it is needed to aid in the tape grass
treatments. CL was examining the natives versus nonnative plants and noted if the criteria for using non native
treatment it would reduce the amount needing to be treated. Treating is set for the 27t of July noted to be much later
than last year. After discussing different marked areas and the weed populations CL recommended that areas 36 and
37 be left off of treatment. And areas one through four. Dominic agreed that area 36 should not be treated as the only
plant to meet the criteria was fanwort and the proposed chemical has no effect on this plant. Dominic agreed to re-
evaluate areas area 37 and 1-4 while in the field on the day of treatment and make a decision about treating those areas.
CL suggested the LSIC consider treating areas 36 and 37 with a chemical that will address the Fanwort in these areas
as it would be a good small scale test of effectiveness and somewhat control the spread of these plants as the public
boat marina is in this cove and would spread the plants. Ashley Braun of 607 Reservoir explained that they are
pursuing treatments with Shirley Conservation for the Shirley side of the Lake. She requested that the Commission
===PAGE 2===
approve the map with the exception of area 36 and to allow for a re-evaluation of 1-4. Motion to approve the treatment
map with the exceptions as presented by motion of TD and a second by CL.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by Eric and Stacy Manseau of 11 Beachveiw Road for the placement of a solar panel
system within the buffer zone at 11 Beachview. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request
by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2d floor on July 19,
2017. The public is invited to attend
. Hearing rescheduled to August 2, 2017due to a need to re-advertise the hearing.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by New England Clean energy for the placement of a solar panel system within the
buffer zone at 39 Old Farm Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on July 19, 2017. The public
is invited to attend.
Hearing rescheduled to August 2, 2017 due to a need to re-advertise the hearing.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by John Harrison for the construction of a driveway and a small portion of a single
family home within the buffer zone at 225 Sunset Lane. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request
by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on July 19,
2017. The public is invited to attend.
Hearing rescheduled to August 2, 2017 due to a need to re-advertise the hearing.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a
CONTINUED public meeting on a request for a determination by Celico Partnership DBA as Verizon Wireless for work at 1079
Mass Ave will be held. Work entails the installation of a 75 foot monopole within the 100 foot buffer zone. Application and
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7PM. July 5, 2017 960 Mass Ave The public is invited to attend
Hearing was re-opened and the commission reviewed the updated plans. Continued due to lack of eligible voting membership to
8/2/17 at 7 PM by motion of TD and a second by CL
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Request for A Determination. Work entails replacement of stone steps and adding gravel under a
deck for stabilization at 58 Hemlock Drive by Mark Pinard. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by
===PAGE 3===
emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM. July 5, 2017 960
Mass Ave The public is invited to aftend.
Mark Pinard represented himself and TD mentioned that he went over the site with MM and BP. As the plans needed to be
amended with measurements it was continued to Aug 2. MM and JR noted they would go to the property to provide
measurements of the no fouch zone.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a Request for A Determination. Work entails grading for a septic system within the riverfront at 22 Boucher Road by
oe Esposito. Application and supporting documents are avallable for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling
78-582-4147ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, th
meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM. July 5, 2017 960 Mass Ave The public is invited to
The meeting was continued as the applicant did not appear by a motion of CL and a second by TD with a unanimous vote by the
commission approving the motion.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a
CONTINUED public hearing to amend a Notice of Intent by Jeffry Viviano for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails
the placement of boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a
wetland resource area. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline,
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960Mass Mass Ave on July 52017. The public is invited to attend.
Continued due to lack of voting quorum as CL had to recuse himself.
Current Business
1. Enforcement
183 Hemlock Dr - Continued from July 5, 2017 to August 2, 2017
48 Oak Ridge Road - Jack Maloney represented the owner and reviewed the minor changes showing
that the newer system was pulled out of the 50 foot zone. MM and Mr Maloney reviewed the violation
of the patio and existing conditions and reviewed the proposed deck and review of enforcement
action. MM noted the Building commissioner will not issue permits for decks until the commission is
satisfied. RB wanted the previously excavated areas re-established ( septic system ). Site walk
Saturday the 29th between 8 and 10am. Motion to accept the septic change made by TD second by
CL. The Decks and patio were continued to August 2nd at 7 PM by CL and a second by TD and a
70 Oak Ridge Road- The existing violations were recalled by MM noting there was a 100 dollar fine
issued. Jamie Rheault representing the applicant acknowledged the error by the contractor working
for elite design. He assured the Commission that the site, wall, contour and trees would be returned
to the original conditions within roughly 50 feet of the lake front. This was a requirement to allow a
quick resolution and the building to continue. It was decided that he would come to the August 2nd
2017 meeting with an as-built showing the current wall and suggestions for remedial action. He also
assured the Commission that the all details were already documented from the pre-work survey.
Based on Jamie Rheaults commitment to bring the subject area back the original conditions the
Commission voted to issue the written enforcement order requiring the wall, grading and
surrounding area, including trees be returned to pre-existing condition by a motion of CL and a
second by BP and a unanimous vote of the commission approving the motion.
New Business -
===PAGE 4===
Old Business - Meeting with Consulting Forester re: continued development of bid specs. Work Order has been issued
and issued a schedule for September 2017 to commence. Arrangements are being made by MM for a special meeting
to be set up for August 30, 2017 in the Town Hall with a site walk in the town forest for August 26 at 9 AM, meeting at
the Ritter Building.
Committee Reports -
Agents Report /Action Items :
Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant - A meeting was held with Dan Gardner on 7/12. He was reminded to
pay his fine and a list was given to him reviewing the items needed to be address in his Order of Conditions.
It was reported that the first three phases of the enforcement were in progress in parallel and not sequentially
Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road-MM is expecting as built drawings of the yards to be submitted by
the next meeting.
• Status of 667 Reservoir Road - David King came to the meeting about input or 667 Reservoir Road. He
showed the historical photos of the old beach. He was encouraged to file a request for an amendment and
will see MM to review the paperwork necessary,
CommunicationsMeeting Schedule- Next meeting for August 2nd in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave.
Public Comment For Meeting Close.
Adjournment
The meeting Adjourned at 9:30 PM by a motion of TD and second by Cl and a unanimous vote of the commission to
approve the motion.
