===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building
960 Mass Ave
December 6, 2017
7 P.M.
MINUTES
Call to Order The meeting was called to order with Chairman Bursch presiding- with all members in attendance.
Announcements
Public Comment - BP was out at the Lane Conservation area and the bridges are displaced and will be fixed. The
for the passage of the Communities preservation act and a redevelopment authority.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Documents submitted for the Commission's consideration was a summary of the proposed scope of work and a
modified sketch plan.
Appointment- 119 Reservoir Road-request for field change to Order of Conditions (addition of a shed to existing lawn area)
Kevin McGinnis appeared to represent himself. He outlined the conservation mix from New England Wetland Plants along with
loom. He requested originally placing a shed just outside the developed yard. TD asked if it would be on blocks. The answer was
gravel was proposed. JR proposed an alternate location. RB outlined that when the project was proposed, there was a specific
limit of development. RB indicated he had no issues with placing the shed on a developed portion. CL indicated he agreed with
the chair and clarified that the future proposed recalculation of the river front. TD noted that perhaps we could work with the
engineer to perhaps trade square footage of alteration. It was clarified that the shed was proposed to be placed on the edge of
grass. It was clarified between the owner and the commission that slash and debris can come out up to the 30 foot no touch line.
Documents presented for the Commission's consideration was a request for a determination WPA form 1A and a
modified sketch plan by the applicant.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by Louis Miola of 248 Townsend Harbor for the placement of a Hot tub on a gravel pad
within the buffer zone at 248 Townsend Harbor Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request
by emailing Icc@/unenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 12/6/17 in the Ritter Building 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. The public is
invited to attend.
Louis Miola appeared on his own behalf. He outlined his project which is adding a gravel pad for a placement of a hot tub. RB
clarified that the soil was six inches down into the soil. He didn't see any issues with the site based on what was seen at the site
inspection. JR indicated he saw no issues due to the proposal being located within existing lawn. TD moved for a negative
determination. KJ seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
===PAGE 2===
attend.
John Houge appeared on his own behalf and explained he wanted to remove 2 trees lakeside. He noted the condition of the
trees and the close proximity to the house. RB noted there are still 5 or 6 mature trees that are going to stay in place in the same
area. Ku moved for a negative determination. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
Documents presented for the Commission's consideration was a request for a Notice of Intent WPA form 3 and a
modified plan by Ducharme and Dillis.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent for the Construction of a single family home, driveway and a septic system at 390
New West Townsend Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 12/6/17 in the Ritter Building 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. The public is invited to
Jack Maloney represented the applicant. He pointed out the buffer zone and river front. The alteration is
proposed to be about 3000 square feet. IT is a lot in existence prior to 1996 and the development was
maximized to be as least impacting to the river front as possible. He did note the building envelope may
change slight for the house only. RB reminded him to not exceed the proposed 3000 square feet of
alteration if the outline does change, Mr. Maloney will email MM the amount of square footage to be altered
for the record. BP indicated as to the dimensions of the full lot. Mr. Maloney answered the limits of the lot
dimensions. RB indicated that there was no issue he saw on the site walk.
There was motion to approve by BP and a second by CL. The motion was approved unanimously.
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR COMMISSIONS CONSIDERATION WAS AN AMENDED NOTICE OF INTENT AND A SITE
PLAN DATED NOVEMBER 3, 2017 SIGNED BY Brian Milisci, a modified plan entitle "option 2" and a landscape design
plan by AT Leonard and Associates.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a
CONTINUED public meeting on an amended notice of intent for the restoration of a wall, grading plantings and consideration of a
wall replacement at 70 Oak Ridge Road by Elite Construction and Design. Application and supporting documents are available
for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an
option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 12/6/17 in the Ritter Building 960 Mass Ave at
7:00 PM. The public is invited to attend.
CL presented an audio/visual presentation of the history of the actions of the property and the order of conditions. He presented
a slide of the 50 foot no touch zone and the deck that overhangs it. He also showed a slide on the trees originally on site and the
original adjusted approval for the well and the location of the wall by the water. He also presented a slide of a photo sowing the
first wall reconstructed without a valid approval and the fact that oaks are still in place. He noted that the wall that was built was
not what was allowed for repairs. It was longer and higher. He noted the as built did show the problems that had developed
regarding the wall and removal of trees. He summarized the events of non-compliance in conclusion with an emphasis on pre-
existing conditions.
===PAGE 3===
address be commissions cancers Me lands are cre a sees pings d ter a t coverage on the
slope. The location of the placement of the trees were examined. It was proposed that the final planting will be memorialized in
an as-built. Wall height is proposed to add a block to make it less steep and to retain the plant base. RB indicated he would like
to see it back to original height. He indicated that original height would prevent expanded use of the rear yard. BP indicated he
had no issue with the added block height. CL indicated he is against the idea of the added height. He also indicated that the wall
should be moved back in. TD indicated he agreed with CL. JR examined the gravel mound by the house. It was indicated by the
engineer that the mound is slated to be removed. CC indicated the height of the wall should stay. The applicant agreed that the
wall shall remain. JR indicated that he would like to see it moved back and stay the same in height. KJ noted that the useable
area down by the water will decrease with the construction of the fiered boulder wall. He indicated he was concerned that moving
the wall could cause more damage. CL did acknowledge that the second wall was a much more environmentally friendly
concession. The majority of the commission indicated they were satisfied with the wall proposal. The steps may have to be
adjusted for safety with respect to grading. That will be verified on the field, however the width approved cannot change. Mr
Rheault reviewed the proposal for a concrete paver patio. He did indicate there will be some perviousness. He also noted if
gutters are installed there is a drywell located on the plans. BP requested clarification of the types of pavers. Mr Rheault
indicated that both options are available. CL clarified that all patio materials would be the same on the entire site. TD asked
about relocation of the patio to reduce impacts of construction (by making it one location only). RB proposed relocating the stairs
that could reshape the deck to allow for a reduction of impact. However, there is a door located. It was noted the house was
pushed 6 feet rather back from the 50 foot no touch zone. RB indicated that he is not in favor of the patio in the 50 foot no touch
zone. BP reminded the commission that there is a proposal in the work to change the 50-foot zone to a pervious based zone. CL
expressed that we should use the regulations as existing. RB reminded that during the original approval there was no work
proposed within the 50 foot zone. MR Rheault presented the commission with an option 2 for the patio with the majority of the
work outside the 50 foot zone. The chair indicated he would like to have the hearing continued with all the additions of the plan
re-submitted on one plan. MM will have the Order of Conditions form ready. CL moved to lift that portion of the stop work order to
allow the well line to be installed. CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously. TD moved to continue the hearing. CL
seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
Current Business
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings). - new (n) and continuations (c)
183 Hemlock Dr (c) appearing for continuation of hearing- Dan Thomas appeared to represent
himself. He presented amended plans dated December 6 and a work schedule for commission
consideration. The plans were examined and clarified as to the location of the ending of the wall. The
commission expressed opposition to the deck. BP moved to issue an Order of Conditions approvin
the work of the walls as proposed and amended. CC seconded and the commission voted
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates: to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in)
307 Townsend Harbor Road (n) Unauthorized Beach expansion - update
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)- awaiting file from engineer
323 Leominster Road- Update- Filed Notice of Intent will be in for the 12/20 meeting.
Emerald Place Beach- erosion issues MM noted Anthony Cleaves will have a proposed solution
New Business - 842 R Chase Road - Follow up from town meeting. Co moved to allow the use of the forestry funds
for the cost s incurred of the gift.
Old Business - Small Town forest update RB updated the commission on the site meeting.
===PAGE 4===
• Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant - updates from town counsel meeting MM and RB updated the
commission on the ability to lien. There is no legal way for the commission to lien. He is going to court to file
a civil action for a lien and file a criminal complaint in superior court. We should have initial action by the end
of January. IT was also noted that if the Order was suspended or revoked we lose the ability to enforce the
bond.
Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road - updates from riverfront issues
•
•
Status of Inspections 667 and 675 Reservoir-update on communications to owners
Lots 1 and 2 Townsend Street- status of inspections and pending sale
Legal Updates and Requests -Fines, Majority and policy development
BP noted that a single member of the commission should not go to town counsel unless authorized by the
remainder of the commission. RB indicated that he has no issues of a member going to see town counsel,
however for the answer to be brought up and accepted unless it is in writing.
Communications / Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for December 20 2017 at the Bilotta meeting Room Town Hall 2nd
Floor at 7 PM.
Public Comment For Meeting Close. TD noted he has a friend that runs a drone service that will come in and talk to the
commission. BP requested the chair remind the open space committee that our plan is overdue for renewal and there
are situations that may require grant funding.
Adjournment the meeting adjourned at 930 with motion from TD and second by KJ
DOCUMENTS CITED ARE ON FILE IN THE COMMISSION OFFICE.
