===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Catie Childs
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
SETTLED
D18
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 2 & 2017
LUNENBER: :
CLER! i
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Matthew S, Marro,
Conservation Administrator
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building
960 Mass Ave
November 1, 2017
7 P.M.
Minutes
Call to Order Carl called to Order and presided for the Lunenburg Snow Riders Appointment. Mr. Dwyer presided
commencing with the hearing/meeting for 48 Oak Ridge Road. With all present except Chairman Bursch
Announcements
Public Comment
none
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Appointment: Lunenburg Snow riders Club-annual permission and use report.
Tom Bertram from the snow-riders appeared before the commission and presented a letter outlining the request and
details. He outlined the trails that they proposed use. CL reviewed the list to determine if there was anything new. The
Commission complimented the organization for the positive work and volunteer efforts on the trails. JR motioned to
allow use based on letter for the next year. KJ seconded and the commission approved unanimously. Mr. Bertram
informed the commission about the dedication of the Charpentier Bridge and the work on the trails both previous and
upcoming. Mr. Bertram informed the commission that there is a Kiosk at the Harold Harley site and was wondering if
the commission would provide materials to place in the kiosk.
Supplemental documents presented was adjustments to the original plan previously presented
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED request for a determination by Michael Tufts for the construction of a paver patio and 2 decks within
the buffer zone at 48 Oak Ridge Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request by emailing
loc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on
November 1, 2017. The public is invited to attend, Note: Administrative Hearing
Mr Tufts provided the dimensions of the patio and picture for the commissions review. The Beach appeared to be within
dimensions of the pre-existing. They also presented the patio dimensions. The also presented evidence that there is no structure
in the 30 foot zone that is not pre-existing. The applicant showed the commission the new patio is a similar legnth and a similar
width. The Commission examined and discussed the photos and what they appeared to show. BP expressed a concern that the
newer patio is not as pervious as the existing one. He requested the patio be sketched on the plan. It was noted by the applicant
that the patio uses polymeric sand and it does seep through and not puddle. TD expressed he shared the same concern. It was
determined the patio was slightly larger. TD suggested removing the smaller deck from the proposal as a mitigating factor in
exchange for leaving the patio in its current condition. The applicant proposed to make the beach 10 by 18 (remaining sand)
===PAGE 2===
and will plant a grass strip and some trees. The Commission requested the applicant modify the plan showing: 1. The smaller
deck be eliminated, 2 the beach dimensions and plantings agreed be noted and the current patio size be noted. it was requested
that the plantings be listed. The also requested the dock be added to the plans. The applicant agreed to continue. The motion
was made to continue by CL and a second by KJ.
Supplemental documents presented was a revised construction timeline.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Settlers Solar for the construction of 6 mega watt solar field within the buffer
zone at 994 Northfield Road with a wetland crossing filling and replicating 1410 square feet of wetland resource area..
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing co@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled
in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on November 1 2017. The public is invited to
attend.
Rob Oliva appeared before the commission and discussed the suggested and amended construction sequence/conditions with
the commission MM raised the issue of having a third party monitor funded in the 53G account and suggested Christopher
Environmental Associates. The Commission has no other issues. Paula Bertram spoke in support of the project and the merits of
the proposed conservation restriction. Bill Gustus the owner reiterated his commitment to the conservation restriction on the
remainder of the land pending all final approvals of the project. CL moved for a motion to issue an OOC KJ seconded and the
commission voted unanimousiy.
Current Business
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings). - new (n) and continuations (c)
183 Hemlock Dr (c) - Update mm noted that the shed was removed and the cleanup is almost
concluded and the posts marking the wall are in. He will inspect and schedule a reconvening of the
NOI hearing.
70 Oak Ridge Road (c) -Update/Inspections MM is awating the plans for 11/3. A total stop work
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates: to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in)
168 West Street (n) - Inspection results by commission -
307 Townsend Harbor Road (n) Unauthorized Beach expansion & administrative hearing on fine -No
Show- MM will have them served in hand. CL moved to fine 100 dollars for a now show. BP seconded
and the commission voted unanimously.
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)- Cutting in Buffer Zone - Administrative Hearing - no show vi will have
them served in hand. cl moved to issue a 100 dollar fine for cutting in the buffer and 100 for the no
show. CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
323 Leominster Road- Unauthorized work in Riverfront. MM noted that he drove by the site on
Saturday and noted he was working. James McNiff noted the fence was falling down and was
correcting erosion. MM is going to work with him to come up with an erosion control stratedgy.
New Business - 842 R Chase Road - updates and any new considerations - review of town warrant and funding. It was
noted by BP that we can acquire the land and at town meeting and the BOS are looking to abate the taxes. However,
there are closing costs. The trust funds can be used.
Old Business - Forest Cutting Plan review and acceptance of bid for small town forest: MM reviewed the bid and has
sent the draft contract out for review. Blanch flower logging of Leominster was the winning bid. BP moved to support
the article and defer closing costs. KJ seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
Certificates of Compliance - Butterfly Lane -deferred to next meeting.
Extension Permit - None presented for consideration
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of - 9/20 and 10/18 BP motioned to approve the minutes. KJ
seconded and the commission voted unanimously. (CC abstained.)
Committee Reports -
Agents Report /Action Items :
===PAGE 3===
• Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant MM noted he ordered Danny Gardner to restore silt fencing. The
Commission requested an administrative hearing.
• Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road - The development has held up very well in the flood.
• Status of Inspections 667 and 675 Reservoir - Area held up well in floodig
• Status of Inspections 93 Whalom Road - The development has held up very well in the flood. Will place for
• Lots 1 and 2 Townsend Street-Matt Olson is doing a great job and it has held up well.
• Legal Updates and Requests -Fines, Majority and policy development
Communications / Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for November 15, 2017 at the Bilotta meeting Room Town Hall 2nd
Floor at 7 PM.
Public Comment For Meeting Close.
BP showed the commission some maps with 1 foot contours (LIDAR) data. He also outlined the property at Gilchrest
Street that is for sale with the possibility of the commission purchasing a 4 acre parcel for 50,000 dollars. BP also
outlined for the commission is efforts on a trail at 842 R Chase Road.
Adjournment- The Commission adjourned at 9 PM
Documents are available for review pertaining to the items presented at the Commission office.
