===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
                                              MINUTES 
Billotta Meeting Room, Second Floor Town Hall  
17 Main Street 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
7 P.M., June 21, 2017 
 
 
Call to Order 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment KJ updated that the pollinator habitat planting has been completed at the Hollis Road lot.  
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM Chairman Bursch presiding with all members except, TB,CL,JR 
 
APPOINTMENT: Forest Cutting Plan –Small Town Forest- Development and discussion with Gary Gouldrup. Mr. 
Gouldrup reviewed the small-town forest management plan and the harvesting involved. It was asked if the area could 
be used for recreation after harvesting. Mr Gouldrup narrated how the quality of the recreational trails systems and the 
habitat would be expanded through the harvesting operation. Mr Gouldrup suggested different tree removal strategies 
based on decline health due to age or other factors and that the stands should be monitored to ensure they are not in 
decline. It was suggested that out of the 250 acres that 50 acres in the northern section of the forest to extract some 
hemlock and pine. As the area is in an ACEC and habitat , places a range of 11/1 through  3/ 15 for harvest. Mr. Gouldrup 
reviewed potential bid and proposal documenting. Mr Gouldrup would get compensated by a portion of the harvesting 
revenue ( 20% based on gross value). Mr. Gouldrup outlined the bidding process for the commission and what his 
duties involve. Mr Goudrup was interviewed as to his past experience with operational and public issues. With respect 
to public issues he strongly recommended a public site walk of the area to give people assurance. He estimated it 
would take a total of one month set up time and another two and a half months for approvals and prospective wood 
buyers.TD noted we should start the process at the beginning of august. Motion to commence survey of the cutting line 
and the development of a plan by New England Forest by BP and a second by KJ and a unanimous vote.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Marjorie Cannvinno for work at 67 Island Road will be held. Work entails the 
installation of a dock within the shore of Hickory Hills Lake. Application and support ing documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room June 21, 2017 17 Main St 2 nd floor at 7 
PM . The public is invited to attend. 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination form and a modified sketch plan by the 
applicant. 
 
Mellissa Cannavinno 67 Island Road appeared and oriented the commission with that the work proposed. RB noted that there 
was a dock in the same spot at one point. TD moved for a negative determination. KJ seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Documents presented was a request for a determination by Verizon and a plan entitled” Verizon Wireless, Lunenburg, 
MA” dated June 2, 2017. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Celico Partnership DBA as Verizon Wireless for work at 1079 Mass Ave will be held . 
Work entails the installation of a 75 foot monopole within the 100 foot buffer zone. Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room June 21, 
2017 17 Main St 2nd floor at 7 PM . The public is invited to attend. 
 
Dean Gustafson appeared before the commission and narrated the plans by Verizon for a monopole. He also outlined the 
revised location of the shed associated with the pole. The relocation agreed as a result of a site inspection now places the 
majority of the project in the outer 50 feet of the resource area. RB examined the erosion protection with the consultant on the 
plans. Continued to July 5 pending updated erosion protection plans by a motion to continue by KJ and a Second by BP.  
 
 Documents presented for consideration was a notice of intent by Michae l Pirolli and a plan entitled “ Site Development 
Plan” dated June 5, 2017 by Hannigan Engineering. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Michael Pirolli for work at 43 Island Rd. will be held. Work entails reconstruction of a pre -
exist6ing retaining wall within the Shore of Hickory Hills L:ake. Application and supporting documents are available for review at 
the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on 
request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room June 21, 2017 17 Main St 2 nd 
floor at 7 PM . The public is invited to attend. 
 
Chris Anderson inquired as to the request for a certificate of compliance due to the existence of an enforcement order He 
presented present and historical pictures. The applicant asserted that the presence of the stones were evidence of a wall. 
However, the commission noted the subject area is not a wall but simply cobbles to armor the shore and are still there in current 
form. 
 
The Commission did not see any need to expand the wall at that time. The commission also examined the stone steps and if 
they were historical. KJ and TD and BP noted that the historical evidence does  support the applicants assertions concerning the 
steps. The Commission requested the plans be amended to show bank stabilization and termed as such.  The applicant also 
requested a certificate of compliance for the original order of conditions from 2012. The Commission also requested a time 
schedule as to when the work would be finished. KJ moved to continue to july 5, 2017 with a second by TD and a un anmimous 
vote. 
 
Documents presented were a request for a determination form and a modified plan by the applicant.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Gerald Croteau for work at 55 Wildwood Road will be held. Work entails the 
construction of a post and beam barn within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area .Application and supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting 
Room June 21, 2017 17 Main St 2nd floor at 7 PM . The public is invited to attend. 
 
The Comission examined the plans and determined that the closest to any resource area was 77 feet. TD moved to issue a 
negative determination of applicability. With the condition that erosion control be placed between the work and the resource area. 
BP seconded and the commission voted unanimously 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Daniel and Jean Proctor  for work at 380, 390 and 400 Electric Ave will be held. 
Work entails construction of a car wash and bus parking area with a partial restoration of land  within the 200 foot river fr ont and 
within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application  and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
===PAGE 3===
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room June 21, 2017 17 Main St 2 nd floor at 7 
PM . The public is invited to attend. 
 
 
Continued due lack of eligible voting members 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public hearing to amend a Notice of Intent  by Jeffry Viviano  for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails 
the placement of boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a 
wetland resource area. Application and supporting documents are available f or review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , 
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on June 7 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
Continued as applicant is not present. 
 
Current Business      
1. Signatures on documents to be issued. 
2. Certificates of Compliance – 
3. Enforcement  
 
 43 Island Road Continuation from June 7 
 183 Hemlock Dr – Continued from   June 7 
Dan Thomas appeared before the commission with plan updates and new dimensional 
measurements taken by hand and hand scaled on the plans. He outlined the measurements. THE 
Commission continued to the July 19 meeting and scheduled a site walk for July 15, 2017 by a 
motion from KJ and a second from BP 
 Emerald Place Beach Erosion Continued from June 7 
Anthony Cleaves presented the commission with a scaled ortho/plans outlining a proposal of some 
trenching to stone with a grassed area. He narrated the previous history of erosion and flow issues 
to the commission. He noted the areas where work was completed and he noted that there appears to 
be some effectiveness of the current stone work. Mr. Cleaves also is proposing a large grass area for 
allowing for filtering the flow of water and eliminating sand going into the stone trench. He noted that 
the grass area would be irrigated. There is also a revegetated area of the opposite side of the bea ch. 
It was noted the vegetation is now taking and should be finished to allow proper water retention.  RB 
examined the area on the beach and was examining the lot to allow for re-grading the lot to allow for 
flow to be redirected towards a grassed area. KJ, TD, BP indicted that they were satisfied with the 
plans. RB wanted to see further planning and a larger grassed area to facilitate water flow away from 
the sand. BP wanted to see further detail planning and a maintenance plan.  KJ reviewed past snow 
dumping practices and ensuring it was not going happen further in the future. The Commission 
requested snow prohibition in writing. The Commission is allowing the continuation of some work 
regarding the seeding of the area in the interests of controlling erosion .  The matter is considered 
ongoing. 
 
New Business –  Commission opening 
Old Business –   
                             
              
Approval of 3/1,3/15,3/29, 4/5 5/3, 5/17, 6/7 minutes  all  approved by the following motion and second:  
 
  March 1 bp kj  - April 5, jk ,td  
 
 May 3 kj td 5/17 and june 7 bp kj 
 
Committee Reports – 
 Holman St property program KJ noted temporary barriers have been placed to ensure that the festival will not 
utilize the lot for the festival 
===PAGE 4===
 Storm water Committee Report 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
 675 & 667 Reservoir Road status of inspections 
 Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant 
 Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road 
 
CommunicationsMeeting Schedule- Next meeting for July 5, 2017  at 7:00 PM In the Ritter Land Use Building 960 Mass 
Avenue. 
Public Comment For Meeting Close.- KJ would like a tax taking update. 
Adjournment 
 
At 920 by motion of kj second of bp 