===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
LITEMBURG, MAST
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 2 U 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building
960 Mass Ave
October 4, 2017
7 P.M.
minutes
Call to Order
nnouncements called to order by Chairman Bursch at 7 PM with all members in attendance except Mr. Luc
ublic Comment John Fortune appeared before the commission and gave a brief presentation on dam modifications t
the Hickory Hills lake dam. They will conduct a site visit on October 14th,
KJ updated the commission on a brush fire incident on the Pleasant Street area. It burned about 5 acres.
Melvin Bertram dedicated a bridge at the Lane Property over the Mulpus and a formal dedication will be held on October
22, 2017 at the bridge.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Appointment: information on the Sunrise Stables Harvest Ride on October 29th 2017.
Renee Trachimas is requesting permission to utilize the Robbs hill property as a portion of
this ride on 10/29 at 9 am. Walkers are welcome as well. The total distance is a 6, 12 and 18
mile run (personal choice). RB request a map of any areas worked on. KJ moved to allow
permission. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
Notice of Insignificant Change - 91 Gilchrest Street - moving of Goat shed - Note: will still be 53 feet away from
resource area as previousiy approved
Tom Petersen is looking to shift the previously approved shed to behind the barn and it will still have the same setback. The
setback is 53 feet away. Motion to approve insignificant change pending revised sketch by TD with a second by BP.
===PAGE 2===
Documents presented for the commission's review was a request for a determination and plans by soils smith entitled
septic design/determination dated 8/30/17 as a 20 scale plan
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Petrius Contracting for the construction of a septic system within the buffer zone at 183 South
Row Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-
582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is
scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on October4, 2017. The public is
invited to attend
Bob Proctor reviewed the plan with the commission. MM noted some work had been performed in advance and recommended
revegetation. TD moved for a negative determination with replanting outlined on an updated plan with a second by BP and a
unanimous vote.
Documents presented for the commission's review was a request for a determination and plans by soils smith entitled
Bob Proctor 99 Pleasant Street dated 5/4/17 as a 20 scale plan
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a request for a determination by Bob Proctor for the replacement of a septic within the buffer zone at 99
Pleasant Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the
meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on October4, 2017. The
public is invited to attend.
Bob Proctor outlined the system and the relation to the wetland. MM reviewed a site inspection he had with CL. RB reviewed the
location of the existing system. Motion for a negative by KJ and a second by TD with a unanimous visit.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED request for a determination by Michael Tuffs for the construction of a paver patio and 2 decks within
the buffer zone at 48 Oak Ridge Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
Ico@/unenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on
October 4, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
Continued until October 18' with a notice for an administrative hearing. By a motion of JR and a second by TD and a unanimous
vote with a time line.
Documents presented for the commission's review was a Notice of Intent and plans by David Ross and Associates
entitled "Settlers Solar" dated 8/17
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Settlers Solar for the construction of 6 megawatt solar field within the buffer
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@/unenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled
in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on October4, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
Rob Oliva appeared representing the applicant. He outlined the changes: location of access eliminating the wetland crossing,
Areas marked on plans that will be grubbed and not stumped, some changes into the storm water controls in relation to rip rap
swales with check dams in lieu of drop inlets. He also reviewed comments from DEP in relation to the cold-water fishery and the
crossing which has since been moved. Mr. Oliva spoke to DEP and related that the site was not suitable for infiltration in the
basins, the addition of the swales is designed to slow down velocity to the basin and a drain wick in the basin to meter the flow in
order to attenuate the temperature issues. RB inquired if DEP has examined the modifications. The applicant will do so. He also
outlined the seed mixed to be used. There has been a vegetation management plan submitted to the planning board. RB
expressed a concern that the seed mix is more of a lawn mix and wondered how it could give a meadow effect. Mir. Oliva noted
===PAGE 3===
that it is allowed to grow for a longer period and the meadow effect is accomplished in that method. They discussed the
possibility of third party monitoring on site to ensure erosion controls were complied with. Mr Oliva noted that there was 7.79
acres of impervious area that was accounted for. Mr. Oliva also addressed the moving of the detention basins and noted that the
topography would not allow effective control of the develop area. Mr. Oliva noted that with the exceptions of the basin areas, they
addressed the commission concerns and moved the fence out of the 100-foot buffer zone. The construct of the solar panels was
discussed by Mr Oliva and he noted that the panels were placed in a manner to allow for runoff between paneis. RB inquired if
the remainder of the land could be placed in a conservation restriction. The owner of the property ( William Gustus) indicated
that he was open to it. RB mentioned about the applicant submitting annual reports to the commission relative to the storm water
management system.
Ron Smith expressed concerns about maintenance of the detention basin and the frequency of the mowing. He also wondered
about the mowing of the rows and if the uneven surface would be addressed. Mr. Oliva responded that it would be a tractor that
was used. RB also expressed interest about pollinator plantings at the perimeter of the project. Mr. Oliva indicated the applicant
was open to it. The hearing was continued to the October 18th meeting to address the pollinator plantings, the conservation
restriction, the monitoring and the resolution of DEP's comments. Motion by Ku and a second by TD
Current Business
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and Fines). - new (n) and continuations (c)
183 Hemlock Dr (c) - MM noted that he will be meeting with Dan Thomas tomorrow (10/5) at 5:30 PM
to review techniques to restore the eroded sections of bank and the remainder of the cleanup along
with timelines.
70 Oak Ridge Road (c) MM reviewed the email from owners rep.
571 Chase Road (c) MM is meeting with Jack Rodriquenz on site to address erosion concerns.
North Leominster Rod and Gun Club (n) - update - MM will re-email DEP as he has not received a
response.
New Business -
994 Northfield Road open space acquisition - see above hearing concerning conservation
restrictions RB outlined the 61b designation of the golf course and procedures on Right of first
refusal. BP was appointed as a conservation representative to the open space committee with a
Discussion of Town Committee Overview form - The Commission decided to keep it as is.
Ch 61 release request 2030 Mass Ave- The Commission decided to not pursue the release request by
motion of KJ and a second by TD.
Old Business - new member recruits After some discussion the commission decided to forward a recommendation of
Catie Childs due to her experience of being on a commission.
Certificates of Compliance - Stone Farm - site inspection set for 10/14/17.
Extension Permit - 811 Chase Road - MM recommended a three year extension. KJ motion to accept with the condition
taxes are up to date. Second by BP.
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of - 8/2 and 9/20 - KJ moved to accept the 812 minutes with a
second by BP.
Committee Reports -
Agents Report /Action Items :
===PAGE 4===
•
Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant -status quo
• Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road - MM outlined the violation lefter Adam Burney sent out
• Status of Inspections 667 and 675 Reservoir - no issues
• Status of Inspections 93 Whalom Road - under investigation
• Status of Inspections 811 Chase Road - no action on lot
Status of Inspections 140 Beals Street - work restarted and going well
• Forest Cutting Plan progress - final plans approved by DCR and contract language changed.
• Legal Updates and Requests -Fines, Majority and policy development RB outlined a meeting with town
counsel and counsel will be reviewing abilities to hold permits on fines - he also confirmed that any
commission votes under by-law requires 4 votes.
KJ reviewed the deadline for town meeting. No items for warrant at this time
• The tax taking parceis to be researched.
• KJ expressed a concern about a property on west Townsend road on the Townsend line that may have
driveway 70 feet onto the property
Communications / Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for October 18, 2017 at the Ritter Land Use Building
Public Comment
RB requested a member to go to a goals meeting on October 10 with the BOS. KJ volunteered.
Kendra from Keating called MM today regarding use of money for DEP's approval. The Commissioners will email MM a
list in the morning.
Adjournment
