===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 7:00 PM regular meetin g  
Town Hall, Billotta meeting room 2 nd  Floor 
17 Main Street 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
Call to Order – CL presiding as acting chair. All m embers attending the meeting except for Mr. Dwyer w ho was absent. 
Chairman Bursch participated remotely by speaker ph one. 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment- Tom Bertram noted that the lakes ar e not safe still with the snow the Cowdrey lot is g roomed. 
Commissioners want to go to the annual MACC confere nce. MM to send out forms via email. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Dan Proctor for wo rk at 140 Peninsula Drive will be held. Work entail s the installation of a septic 
system and water service line within the 100 foot b uffer zone of a wetland resource area Application a nd supporting documents 
are available for review at the Conservation Commis sion office by calling 978-582-4147ext 431 by appoi ntment. Emailing a PDF 
is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room, second 
floor, Town Hall 17 Main Street on February 15, 201 7 at 7:00 PM. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Jack Maloney representing the applicant. He explain ed the need of the system and its relation to the w etland and 30 and 50 foot 
buffer. The septic and pump chamber is within the 3 0 foot no touch however it is under the gravel driv eway. JR inquired if the 
Board of Health approved. They had not yet but it i s anticipated to be approved. MM noted that he felt  a standard Order is all that 
is required. RB noted that it is a substantial tree s over-story and wondered how that would be impacte d. Mr. Maloney noted that 
there is a lot of small pine. RB wanted some planti ng area to remediate. MM noted that there was no ve getation to be removed 
on the low side so there will still be a vegetative  buffer. RB also noted the sleeve and the location of the reserve which was 
shown to be within the same outlet. Mr. Maloney not ed the revised plans show the tank are monolithic. TB moved to issue a 
standard Order KJ seconded and the Commission voted  unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
meeting on a Request for a determination by La Moun tain Bros Inc. for work at 453 Mass Ave will be hel d. Work entails the 
installation of a septic system within the 100 foot  buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application  and supporting documents 
are available for review at the Conservation Commis sion office by calling 978-582-4147ext 431 by appoi ntment. Emailing a PDF 
is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room, second 
floor, Town Hall 17 Main Street on February 15, 201 7 at 7:00 PM. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Jack O’Leary represented the applicant. He illustra ted where the system went and its relation to the w etland. He noted the work 
that is mostly outside the buffer zone and it is a manhole connection modification that is within the outer 50 feet of the buffer 
zone. Mr. O’Leary noted the area is already paved a nd bordered by a retaining wall. MM recommended tha t a negative # 3 with 
===PAGE 2===
standard finding of fact. Cl inquired if any of the  plumbing was going under the building. Mr. O’Leary  noted that the store has man 
holes along the store perimeter.  
 
TB moved for a negative 3 determination. JR seconde d and the commission unanimously approved. 
 
CONTINUED-Request FOR AN INSIGIFIGANT CHANGE on a n otice of intent/current order of conditions by Suns hine Nominee 
Trust  for a modification to a previously approved detention basin at 554 Lancaster Avenue will be hel d . the meeting is 
scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room, second floo r, Town Hall 17 Main Street on February 15, 2017 at  7:00 PM. The public is 
invited to attend.  
 
MM noted that the required information has been sub mitted and is on the cloud. CL asked for outflow ra tes for all storms on the 
original print. MM will contact Alton Stone to have  the information added. The hearing was continued t o 3/1/17. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Gougen Construction for work at  675 Reservoir Road will be held. Work entails the 
demolition and construction of a single family home , the installation of driveway and a septic system within the 100 foot buffer 
zone of a wetland resource area Application and sup porting documents are available for review at the C onservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointme nt. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting Room, second floor, Town Hall 17 Main Street on 
February 15, 2017 at 7:00 PM. The public is invited  to attend. 
 
 Chris Hanson represented the applicant and examined  the restoration proposal with the applicant. He 
presented the commission with a plan showing restor ation. Cl questioned the number of trees in the are a 
by the shoreline and inquiring as to the arrival of  the number by the applicant. The applicant stated t hat 
there were 7 trees in that area between 8 and 15 in ches in diameter. It was noted that the proposed 
replacements are large caliper trees (deciduous). T he spacing was proposed for growth allowance. CL 
examined the methodology of reproducing the biomass  with RB. RB noted he did not envision a one to one  
tree replacement but perhaps in place for 4, 60 ft trees perhaps 8 10 ft trees for example plus some 
understory growth to make up for it. JR discussed t rees in a specific section of the plans within the area 
abutting an identified access road. KJ and BP both noted that there was a discussion based on the powe r 
point presentation that CL showed to the commission  and that we gave them a specific direction. BP fel t 
that we should not add areas that were not discusse d. TB indicated agreement with KJ and BP. CL noted 
that at the last meeting he was concerned there was  not any trees added in the 102 elevation section. 
Chuck Caron noted that he left with the understandi ng the commission was not concerned with that area 
and their understanding of what was expected and fe els the plan was what the commission had asked for.  
RB indicated he would like to see more vegetation w ithin the area where there are four trees proposed.  TB 
recommended five big trees in the area under discus sion where the four trees are currently. BP would 
support TB’s suggestion. MM reviewed with the commis sion pre and post photos from the alteration and 
will add some trees to an area that was bare spotte d right at the pond/river junction. It was agreed t o add 
some trees in that area adjacent to the existing bo at launch. After discussion TB suggested adding tre es in 
the area by the construction. Mr Hanson summarized:  Provide restoration plan and a revised development  
plan that incorporates restoration in the landscape d area currently outlined on the Notice of Intent. TB 
clarified that the phase one restoration area is th e floodplain area and KJ clarified that the revised  plan will 
incorporate all the changes discussed. CL made it c lear to the applicant that until the entire plan is  provided 
the applicant can not assume anything is agreed to.  The applicant agreed to put 4-6 inch deciduous tre es in 
area of interest instead of 1-1 ½ inch trees. TB sug gested 5 such trees. CL indicated that he would lik e to 
see more than 5. There was consensus of the larger s ize trees but no consensus on the quantity. RB 
expressed interest to also have understory. TB expre ssed concern that there is no restoration in the ar ea 
along the slope. CL reinforced that this was stated  at the last meeting by him as well. It was agreed that the 
final plan will be submitted including all revegeta tion and landscaping. BP expressed that he was expe cting 
===PAGE 3===
trees be included in the slope are restoration. TB a nd CL agreed with this point. RB wants to see separ ate 
plan sheets for each planting phase along with a pr evious conditions page. The meeting will reconvene 
March 1, 2017 with new plans submitted no later tha n 2/25/17. Motion by KJ and a second by TB. 
 
Administrative Hearing – 43 Island Road ( Continued)  MM noted that he walked the site with Mr. 
Hannigan and there will be an as-built for the form er order submitted and file a new notice for the wa ll not 
yet built. 
   338 Sunset (Continued) – MM noted that he had communicated with Whitman 
and Bingham and will have the plan along with propo sed remediation for the 17 
th  
and it will be sent to the commission to examine fo r the meeting on March 1 st .  
 
        
Current Business      
1.  Signatures on documents to be issued. 
2.  Certificates of Compliance  
3.  Enforcement  
 
•  121 Peninsula Continuation from 11/2/16 MM noted ad vertised and on track to March 1, 2017 
•  43 Island Road Continuation from – see above 
•  338 Sunset Lane Continuation -see above 
•  675 Reservoir Road – see above 
•  183 Hemlock Dr Continued until April 19, 2017 
•  Emerald Place Beach Erosion Continued from 2/1/17 
 
New Business –             
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementa tion – discussion of Goals and other items related to grant- MM 
will have a more specific report from Gary for the next meeting. 
              
Approval of 2/1/17 minutes no action taken for the commission to review  
 
Committee Reports – 
•  Holman St property program – parking lot has been p lowed. 
•  Storm water Committee Report- JR noted there is an outline in the total process that will be utilized.  The 
committee me with the school superintendent about a dding storm water to the science curriculum. 
 
 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
•  Woodlands- will be on the agenda for March 1. MM ha nded out copies of the application. 
•  Annual Report – MM will complete and submit for tom orrow. 
•  Budget– MM will add goals based on suggestions he h as been given by the commission individually. 
•  Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 3/ 1/17 meeting. 
•  Forest Cutting Plan review on Holman Street. MM out lined a complaint on the Masse property. MM had the  
service forester examined and it was compliant.  
•  Appeal on 120 West Street. MM noted the appeals pro cess and will inform the commission when DEP issues  
a date. 
 
 
Communications 
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for March 1, 2017 at 7:00 PM In the Ritter Land Use Building, 960 Mass Ave, 
Lunenburg, MA  
===PAGE 4===
Public Comment for Meeting Close. RB wanted a motio n to forward the fines to the land use director to go forward with 
collection of delinquent fines on 101/190 Pleasant.  CL discussed a warrant that the sewer commission i s forwarding at 
town meeting. KJ moved to forward the fine issue to  town counsel and the land use director on the abil ities to  lien this 
property. Vote was unanimous.  
 
CL inquired about the use of insignificant change a nd reviewed the process. CL also reviewed the meeti ng the Board of 
Selectmen had on items added above level service an d the commission agreed that there should be a 3000  dollar item 
for bridge work. MM to send request to land use dir ector. 
 
Adjournment – BP moved to adjourn KJ seconded and t he commission voted unanimously at 9:22 PM 
 