===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Richard Bursch, Chair
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair
Bob Pease
Carl Luck
Jack Rabbitt
Kenneth Jones
RECEIVED & FILED
Town of Lunenburg
NOV 2 & 2017
Conservation Commission
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
THEMBURG
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
CORPORA
Matthew S. Marro,
Conservation Administrator
NOTICE OF MEETING
Billotta Meeting Room, Second Floor Town Hall
17 Main Street (revised)
Lunenburg, MA 01462
7 P.M., September 20, 2017
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
Public Access channel.
AGENDA
Call to Order Meeting called to Order at 7Pm with Chairman Bursch presiding with all members present except Mr.
Dwyer
Announcements
Public Comment - PJ Keating appeared and wished to donate to the commission of 22000 ..motion by bp to accept
pending BOS second by KJ unanimous.
Appointments/Hearings -commences at 7 PM
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a request for a determination by Bob Proctor for the replacement of a septic within the buffer zone at 99
Pleasant Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the
meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
Continued to 10/4 by a motion from kj and a second by CL
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR REVIEW WAS THE REQUEST FOR AMENDMENT AND AN AMENDED PLAN BY
APPLICANT DATE AUGUTS 2017.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for an amendment to an existing Order of Conditions by David King for the restoration of a beach area
within the buffer zone at 667 Reservoir Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
cc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billota Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017. The
public is invited to attend.
David King appeared and reviewed plans for the restoration of the beach area. He presented historical data. It was noted that the
straw wattles were provided on the plans for erosion protection. KJ reviewed the installed erosion protection currently installed on
the site and how it would be added. It appeared by calculations that 24.7 yards would be needed. CL discussed with the
applicant Grass beach versus sandy beaches and the applicants references. KJ moved to approve the amendment request with
1000 square feet in dimension, 8 inches deep as described in the application.
===PAGE 2===
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION AND A MODIFIED SCOPE
PLAN BY THE APPLICANT
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Byiaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by Fred Daley for the cutting of trees and stabilizing landscaping within the buffer zone
at 238 Townsend Harbor Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing the meeting is
scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017. The public is invited to attend.
Fred Dailey represented Himself. He outlined the cutting of 7 trees with some vegetation and reviewed the total proposal of work
outlined in his submission including rebuilding of the shoreline with loose boulders and rocks and adding vegetation. He reviewed
the submission packet containing pictures and illustrations of the proposed work. RB reviewed with the applicant that other than
rebuilding the wall there would be no grading changes proposed. RB also noted that the trees were very damaged and has no
issues removing them. It was also noted the walls are existing and would be in roughly the same dimensions. The re-sue the old
dock pieces were reviewed with the applicants to ensure it was 140 square feet or less. it was agreed that they would only use
one platform. The applicant was advised to be selective about smothering existing vegetation with the stone embankment
rebuilding. Motion for a negative determination by BP with a note that the slope is 45 degrees, there is only one platform. CL
seconded with the ciarification that a 45 degree angle was an average. The motion was passed unanimously.
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION APPLICATION AND A
MODIFIED SCALED PLAN BY THE APPLICANT.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a request for a determination by Forrest and Terrie Hyde for the Placement of a tree house within the outer 50 foot
buffer zone at 393 Arbor Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is aiso an option on request by emailing
icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017. The
public is invited to attend.
Forrest and Terrie Hyde represented themseives. He explained the project to the commission. The use of the path was
examined. It was noted that no trees would be removed other than a few large pines. There will be electricity and cable run
elevated to the unit. The tree house is 17 feet by 12 feet and has no utilities and the stairs on the non wetland side will be used.
KJ moved for a negative determination. BP seconded and the commission voted unanimously.
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED request for a determination by Michael Tufts for the construction of a paver patio and 2 decks within
the buffer zone at 48 Oak Ridge Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing
Icc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017.The
public is invited to attend continued
The meeting was continued to October 4, 2017 by a motion of BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote to approve
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Profection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED request for a determination by Glen Reinhardt for the re-building of an existing shed within the buffer
zone at 53 Pearl Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Icc@lunenburgonline, the
meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017. The public is invited to attend
Glen Rienhardt represented himself He changed his plans to eliminate the original shed and wishes to add an attached garage
on an area that is already paved and tear down the shed system. CL pointed out that it is a better solution as we gain impervious
area close to the lake with the removal of the shed. The applicant is having an architect to draw on the house. The applicant
withdrew to update his plans and file a notice of inent.
===PAGE 3===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Settlers Solar for the construction of 6 mega watt solar field within the buffer
zone at 994 Northfield Road with a wetland crossing filling and replicating 1410 square feet of wetland resource area..
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing Ico@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled
in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on September 20, 2017. The public is invited to attend
RB reviewed the comments from the engineer and DEP. It was continued by a motion of KJ and a second by CL with a
unanimous vote.
Continued to 10/4
Current Business
1.
Enforcement - new (n) and continuations (c)
183 Hemlock Dr (c) - MM noted the area was cleaned however inspection by himself and CL noted a
section of the bank was eroding. MM will schedule site inspections with the applicant to work out a
scenario with the applicant to remediate the bank.
70 Oak Ridge Road (c) - The Commission voted to issue an updated enforcement order requiring a
landscape plan and a revised grading plan.
571 Chase Road (c) - CL noted he inspected and saw silt coming into the stream from both sides. MM
will work with DPW to evaluate the area to find remediation's.
250 Howard Street (n) - MM reviewed notice of non compliance with the commission. No further
action required at this time
North Leominster Rod and Gun Club (n) MM and RB reviewed the letters with the commission. MM
had sent an inquiry to DEP with no response yet.
Northfield Road- KJ asked if MM can check out an existing construction to ensure there is no
violation of the prior determination.
New Business -
Old Business - new member recruits Catie Childs spoke to the commission about her prior commission experience.
Tracy Thibodeau appeared to introduce herself to the commission and spoke of her prior experience. David Scarpitti
spoke to the commission about his work experience with DEP and his educational background.
Certificates of Compliance -
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of - 8/16 and 8/30 7/5, 7/19,9/6
The Commission approved the
following minutes by motion of the following:
7/5/17 BP moved, KJ seconded
7/19/17 KJ moved and BP seconded
8/30 KJ moved and BP seconded
9/6/17 KJ moved and BP seconded
Committee Reports -
Agents Report /Action Items :
Status of Inspections 101 Pleasant
• Status of Inspections 155 Reservoir Road
Status of Inspections 667 and 675 Reservoir
93 Whalom Road
811 Chase Road
41 Beals Street
Forest Cutting Plan progress -
53 G account update -
===PAGE 4===
Communications Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for October 4, 2017 at the Ritter Land Use Building
Public Comment For Meeting Close. Bob ATV evidence attempted to take the sign down.
Adjournment
ALL DOCUMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW AT COMMISSION OFFICE
