===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
                                              MINUTES 
      Wednesday, May 3, 2017 7:00 PM regular meeting  
                   Ritter Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
Call to Order The meeting was called to Order by Chairman Bursch with all members in attendance except Mr. Pease 
and Mr. Bertram. 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment JR noted that Hickory Hills won an award from EPA for Stewardship of the lake. JR noted that there is 
a festival planned at the area by the Lane Estate as shown at the PB meeting. MM is having that organization come to 
the May 17th meeting. KJ noted that there is signage coming for the pollinator habitat. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for A Determination. Work entails installation of a septic system upgrade at 48 Oak Ridge Road by Bill 
Terrell. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on May 3 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Jack Maloney oriented the commission as to the work and the relation to the wetland resource area. MM 
noted the wetlands were accurately represented and feels a negative 3 is appropriate. Elevation atop the 
field is 96.8 to blend with existing. Over dig was caused by older buried soils that need to be removed. It 
was noted that the driveway was shared. It was also noted that there was a wheelchair ramp on the 
overheard that shows as an elaborate structure, however there is no work proposed in that area. 
 
TD moved for a negative determination. KJ seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Nancy Sullivan for work at 28  Birch Island Way  will be held. Work entails the 
removal of trees within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are availabl e 
for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an 
option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave 
Street on May 3 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Nancy Sullivan appeared to remove trees. She is concerned about the possibility of damage to her and her 
neighbors. MM recommended a site walk and that the meeting be continued. A site walk would be set Sat 
===PAGE 2===
May 13th 2017. 9:00 AM KJ moved to continue to the 17th of may. CL seconded and the commission 
approved unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Paul Morin  for work at 894 Northfield Road  will be held. Work entails upgrade of a 
septic system within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are available f or 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on 
May 3 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
 Doug Smith outlined the area in question, its relation to the wetland and the total scope of work which was 
replacing the septic system. He outlined the buffer zone and noted that he is not proposing to remove any 
trees. The Board of Health has already approved the project. Wattles are proposed for erosion protection. 
KJ moved to issue a negative determination. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Munic ipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public hearing to amend a Notice of Intent  by Jeffry Viviano  for work at 338 Sunset Lane will be held. Work entails 
the placement of boulder on the north side and a tree house and the addition of a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone of a 
wetland resource area. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by  
calling 978-582-41467ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , 
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on May 3 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
DOCUMENT PRESENTED WAS AN AMENDED NARRATIVE AND SKETCH DATED MAY 3, 2017 
CARL LUCK RECUSED AND LEFT THE TABLE. 
 
Jeff Vivano outlined his revised scope of work and his proposed tree, laurel and blue berry bushes coming 
for planting in the areas delineated on his handout. He is asking only for a dock on the west side due to the 
wind being a large factor. He also presented the scope and specifications for the construction of a tree 
house. It was noted that the tree house had bolts in the trees placed in a manner that would not harm the 
trees. He requested the commission do a site walk to view the proposed locations for the tree house. The 
shed was moved out of the 50 foot no build zone from both wetlands. The walk is Saturday May 13th at 9:30 
AM. CL made comments concerning shoreline erosion, and requested that there is one drawing showing all 
work approved so that the commission has one document showing all approved work that is part of the 
approval. JR moved to continue to May 17th. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent  by Jonathan Boyd for work at 121 Peninsula Drive will be held. Work ent ails clearing 
of trees and remedial landscaping near a single family home within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area 
.Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting is 
scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on May 3 2017. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Jonathan Boyd represented and he and MM narrated the areas that were cut with the areas that would be 
replanted. The beach would be maintained and the steps would be replaced and not with the retaining wall. 
The area by the deck will be filled in with a shrub layer.And the area by the top of the stairs RB 
recommended that it be replanted with grass to stabilized. Motion to approve staring with zone 5 with 
erosion protection. By KJ with a second by TD and a unanimous vote to approve. 
 
 
 Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on an amendment request on a notice of intent/current order of conditions by Paul Gougen for a modification to a 
===PAGE 3===
previously approved Driveway Access at 667 Reservoir Road will be held. Application and supporting documents are available 
for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an 
option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave 
Street on May 3 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Chris Anderson presented the commission a plan showing the previously approved house and driveway would be moved. The 
Commission closely examined the plans for comparison between previously approved and proposed. IT as noted that the 
grading will be adjusted and will be directed away. KJ moved to accept the amendment. CL seconded and the commission voted 
to unanimously approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Gougen Construction for work at 675 Reservoir Road will be held. Work entails the 
demolition and construction of a single family home, the installation of driveway and a septic system within the 100 foot buffer 
zone of a wetland resource area Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave Street on May 3 2017. The public 
is invited to attend. 
 
DOCUMENT PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A PLAN BY HANNIGAN ENGINEERING ENTITLED EXISITING 
CONDITIONS PLAN DATED MARCH 29, 2017 WITH CORRECTED WORDING AS REQUIRED BY THE COMMISSION AT 
THE MEETING OF APRIL 5, 2017. 
Chris Anderson reviewed the correction of wording on the plan and clarified some of the planting presented. RB noted that DPW  
is looking to pave the roadway and that the waterline was done. The Commission reviewed the planting remediation scope in  
final details. KJ moved to approve an Order of Conditions. CL seconded and the commission voted unanimously. It is noted that  
the request for the wall has been removed and is not valid on the plan or the amendment and will be noted in both orders of 
condition. Phasing will be written in the Order. 
 
APPOINTMENT: LAKE SHIRLEY IMPROVEMENT CORPORATION- continued to perform further survey work. 
 
Current Business      
1. Signatures on documents to be issued. 
2. Certificates of Compliance – 322 Townsend Harbor Road 
3. Enforcement  
 
 43 Island Road Continuation from 2/1/17- Hannigan Engineering presented a draft as built for the 
commission to review.  
 675 Reservoir Road – see above 
 183 Hemlock Dr – RESUMING OF HEARINGS – referred to DEP for the wall construction in a flood 
plain by motion of KJ and a second by CL. 
 Emerald Place Beach Erosion Continued from 2/1/17- MM working with Engineer on alternative 
proposals. Looking to have a final proposal for the next meeting. 
 
New Business –  Extension permit request 250 Holman Street approved and signed.   
              Request for an insignificant change 70 Oak Ridge        
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementation – progress- Gary Gouldrup did a final examination of all the 
wood stands and the management of them inclusive of cutting. He recommended that the harvesting be done in 
rotation and in sections over a 20-year period promoting a rotation. The Commission reviewed the process for 
harvesting and wildlife habitat enhancement with Mr. Gouldrup. After consideration KJ moved to approve the 
stewardships plans. JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
                             
              
Approval of 3/1,3/15,3/29, 4/5 minutes  
 
Committee Reports – 
 Holman St property program- no report 
===PAGE 4===
 Storm water Committee Report – The Town received a 25000 dollar improvement grant for storm water 
planning.  
 
 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
 Budget Update/ Treasurer comment- no update 
 Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 5/3/17 meeting- will add forestry action item to agents 
report. 
 
Communications Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for May 17, 2017  at 7:00 PM In the Billotta Meeting Room 2nd Floor, 
17 Main Street, Lunenburg, Ma 01462 
 
Public Comment For Meeting Close. 
Adjournment THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED AT 10PM  : by motion of KJ and a SECOND by JR  
 
ALL DOCUMENTS PRESENTED ARE ON FILE IN THE COMMISSION OFFICE 