===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
    MINUTES  
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
Lunenburg, Ma 01462 
November 28, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being AUDIO recorded. 
 
AGENDA  
Call to Order Called to order with all members in attendance with Chairman Bursch presiding.  
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment RB noted that the meeting the previous night was opened and advertised properly and continued after 
one member left going below a quorum. Even though discussion continued, the audio was posted on the town website.  
 
Commissioner Childs reviewed the highlights of the LSIC workshop. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 Appointment: Bixby 217 Reservoir Road- minor change of septic plan for review (DEP 208-1140)- Neil Gorman appeared before 
the commission and outlined a change in the location of the leach field bringing the field into the outer riparian zone.  It was noted 
that the upgrade within the outer riparian zone and not within the buffer zone triggers the exemption thr eshold. The change ion 
plan was approved as a minor change by a motion of TD and a second by CL with a unanimous vote to approve. 
 
(DEP 208-1133) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown 
management plan at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
November 28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
By request of the applicant the meeting was continued to December 19, 2017 at 7 PM by a motion of CC and a second by TD 
with a unanimous vote to approve the motion. (NOTE: Commissioner Rabbitt recused himself from this matter and did not 
participate in this discussion) 
 
 
Documents presented for review was a Notice of Intent by Michael and Barbara Battl e and a plan by Michael Battle with 
a final revised date of 11/28/18. 
(DEP 208-1145) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Michael and Barbara Battle for grading and planting within the 
200 foot riverfront/100 foot buffer zone and an addition within the riverfront at 168 West Street..Application and supporting 
===PAGE 2===
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 
Mass Ave. The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building  November 28, 2018 at 7 PM The 
public is invited to attend. 
 
 
 
Both Michael and Barbara Battle were present for the meeting and presented the changes as requested by the conservation 
commission. RB requested that the applicant reduce the proposed gravel driveway out of the 50 foot no -structure zone. The 
applicant agreed. Plans were modified by hand at the meeting and signed as the f inal revision date. Stabilization and re-
vegetation were reviewed.  TD expressed a concern that the erosion line be extended to West Street to mitigate the construction 
entrance. A motion to approve the Order of Conditions was approved with the added condi tions that the driveway stay 
permanently out of the 50 foot zone, with the hay bales extended to West Street and a permanent deed restriction be entered 
that there will be no pavement placed in the lower driveway, hence remaining gravel by CC and a second by TD with a 
unanimous vote to approve the motion. 
 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The 
meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited t o 
attend. 
 
The meeting was continued by request of the applicant due to the lack of an issued DEP file number to December 19, 2018 at 7 
PM. By a motion of KJ and a second by TD with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
  
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination and a plan entitled “ Determination of 
Applicability 449 Page Street” with a final revision date of 11/13/2018.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on request for a determination by William Galloway for construction of a garage retaining wall at 449 Page Street 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commiss ion office by calling 978-582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is 
scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited to attend.  
 
Greg Roy appeared before the commission representing the applicant. He outlined the proposed work and its distance to the 
wetland resource area. TD inquired if there was a slab or frost wall with the answer being frost wall. RB reviewed the erosion 
control and the limit of work as well as any required vegetation removal. He also examined the stockpile area to be located o ut 
side the buffer zone. A motion for a negative determination with the condition that the wattles were the limit of work was made by 
TD and seconded by JR with a unanimous vote to approve the motion. 
 
Documents presented for Consideration was a request for a determination by David Watt and a drawing by Watt Dated 
November 2018. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by David Watt for the removal of 6 trees within the 100 foot buffer zone at 16 fire  road 
7. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is 
scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited to attend.  
 
David Watt was present and reviewed the drawing submitted. It was noted by the commissi on that the bulk of the trees shown on 
the sketch were not within the buffer and the 2 located in the buffer zone was in the outer part ( greater than 85 feet ) of the 
buffer zone. A motion to issue a negative determination of TD and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Documents presented for consideration was a Notice of Intent by Steve Bean and a Plan entitled” Proposed Garage and 
Septic As-Built for Steve Bean” by Beauchmin Engineering with a revision date of 10/5/18.  
(DEP 208-1144) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Steve Bean for an addition to a single family home of a garage and the 
construction of a retaining wall at 27 Fire Road 15A. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 
28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
Tim Beauchmin was present for the applicant. The grading between the 50 foot and the work was examined by TD. RB 
suggested that the stockpiling, examined previously by RB and TD have erosion protection around it. A motion for approving an  
Order of Conditons with the added condition that stockpiling in the buffer zone have erosion protection around it by TD and a 
second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
 
(DEP 208-1146) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protectio n and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on request for a Notice of Intent by Anthony and Kristine Jordan for renovation to a single family ho me 
with the construction of an addition at  30 Laurel Lane Application and supporting documents are available for r eview at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 
28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
Greg Roy appeared representing the applicant. He outlined the project and the relation to the wetland resource area to the 
commission. He also pointed out the different resource areas to the commission including bordering wetland, lake and floodpla in. 
He outlined the driveway, a new patio, reconstruction of the exiting home on the existing foot print. A garage is proposed to be 
added with a connecting mudroom between the garage and the house. The sewer line would be replaced as well. He outlined 
some trees that are close to the home that need to be removed. Said trees were shown and pointed out on the plans. He did 
note that some of the work is within the 30 and 50 foot restrictive zones and as such would require a waiver. He noted on the 
plans a temporary staging area in the back of the home for siding and roofin g work that would require posts in the water, which 
cannot be avoided due to the house location. The exiting boulder retaining wall would also be repaired by hand. RB noted that  
the flood plain elevation was 514 not 214. RB also requested that pavement be replaced by pavers. The nook in the exiting home 
was noted as staying with the second floor filled in only.  
 
Christine Jordan reviewed the total existing pavement and plans to pull it out. TD asked if any additional docks are planned. Ms. 
Jordan answered no. JR asked the applicant about replanting. Ms. Jordan stated a willingness to plant something that would not 
grow as large to prevent further danger to the home in the future. The commission also noted that the staging should be noted as 
temporary and removed in the winter to prevent damage. The nature of the second floor being a roof only was clarified by the 
applicant and there is an existing structure.  
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Kenneth Chenis for an addition to a single family home with modifications to  the 
patio at 50 fire road 24. The Notice also includes a proposal for the modification of the alignment to fire road 24. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is scheduled to take 
place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 28, 2018 at 7 PM The public is invited to attend.  
 
Ken Chenis appeared before the commission. He reviewed the changes in the plan he made based on commission and MM’s 
input. He outlined the relocation of the road and stabilization of the former road to prevent erosion. He also outlined the existing  
concrete and patio area. He outlined the addition and the new driveway. RB asked him to update plan showing the 100 foot 
buffer zone and the relocated driveway as well as looming and seeding the proposed area to be abandoned as a driveway. TD 
expressed a concern that the driveway area may be within the buffer zone of the lake coming in from Sunset Lane. MM 
examined and measured the ortho photos and the results did show that the proposed work for the driveway off sunset was at 
over 200 feet away. It was suggested that the plan be updated to better show the driveway. Mr. Chenis noted there was one 
dying maple tree that needs to be removed within the 30 foot zone. He asked the commission how it could be removed. It was 
===PAGE 4===
noted to show it on plan and show a replacement. He outlined where he would like to replace the tree and the commission did 
not object to the proposal.  
 
(DEP 208-1147) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection a nd Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Steven Powell the Site Grading to prevent runoff from discharging from the s ite 
located at 151-181 Leominster-Shirley Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the C onservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building November 28, 2018 at 7 
PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
Brian Marchetti  and Steve Powell was present for the applicant.  Mr. Marchetti outlined the current activities on the site. He 
outlined that the 2 parcels are proposing retroactive approval for an 8.9% total riverfront impacts. The revised figures for total 
riverfront and total impacted was reviewed.  RB asked about the total disturbance on the former site at 151 and what is acutally 
disturbed versus what was actual. Mr Marchetti did not have the exact figures and noted that the total percentage does includ e 
that land area.  
 
RB clarified that he was looking for total land disturbance due to the statement being made that the work on that lot was less 
than originally proposed. RB also had some questions on the efficiency of the storm water as constructed and did it impact the 
original flow of water to the wetland in a negative way. Mr. Marchetti noted that as the site is a gravel pit, rain tends to percolate 
through the site and there has been no runoff from the site containing any silt. JR expressed concerns we may need to trade o n 
the site for habitat area. Mr. Marchetti and RB reviewed the regulations regarding permitting. Mr. Marchetti noted that this 
operation has been active on the site for years. BP reviewed the current operation and future plans for the operation. Mr. Po well 
expressed an opinion he feels the course of this hearing is being personally directed at him. After his statement , he left the 
meeting and Mr. Marchetti continued meeting as his representative.  The Commission examined configurations on the berm and 
BMP’s concerning stormwater. The meeting was continued to December 19 at 7 PM by a motion of TD and a second by CC with 
a unanimous vote to approve.  
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines – MM reported Fines Continued 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road RB noted as the Powell Stone has existing 
violations on 131 and 133 Leominster Shirley that they be memorialized under an enforcement order 
noting they must be addressed in the future by a motion of TD and a second by KJ.  
EO -55 Spring Street- Steve Marsden noted the construction on the plans that were mitigations. After 
some discussion, it was decided that everything would be placed on a plan and it would come back 
to the commission.  
Butterfly Lane- update on multiple NON’s- MM working with residents on RDA applications 
155 Reservoir Road- special meeting date to be set- it was decided to set a meeting for January 16, 
2019. RB recalled a meeting with he, MM and Brian Marchetti with potential remediation. 
EO Emerald Place Beach – MM had issued an EO and the commission ratified 
EO Val Barros- MM noted that Mr. Barros had some silt going off of the property into the abutting 
wetland (pond) off the property. He instructed Mr. Barros to place erosion control. He noted that there 
was some jumping of the bales on one side and requested Mr. Barros extend. The Commission will 
be monitoring the situation ( having MM monitor). The Commission ratified the enforcement order. 
New Business – 
                             Forest Stewardship grants and planning. – The Commission did receive a grant to complete a 
                             stewardship plan. This is for Hollis Road and will be a plan to enhance bird habitat. Mass Audubon  
               will be involved. 
         
Old Business – Robbs Hill Conservation stewardship and maintenance plan ( if any update) – as there is no action 
planned in the near future this item is going to be removed for future agendas at this point.  
             Land Exchange on Gilchrest –updates ( if any) 
             Work at the Small Town Forest 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat assessment planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area    
Certificates of Compliance – 91 Gilchrest Street  - 208-1101 JR moved to issued the certificate, TD seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously.  
Extension Permit – 22 Oak Ridge Road 
===PAGE 5===
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of October 3 and October 19 and November 7 –CC moved and TD 
seconded to approve Oct 3 minutes. Oct 19 minutes TD moved and CC seconded for the approval of the minutes o f 7th 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review - Chase Road Rear – BP spoke to 842 Chase Road Rear 
that the deeds would have to be probated prior to the donation to the town moving forward.  
 183 Hemlock, Update- MM noted the area is not moving due to weather however it is mostly done.  
 101 Pleasant Street – EO update – see above 
 842R Chase Road – if any – see above 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update (If any) – see above public comments 
 155 Reservoir Road- see above 
 Shady Point 
 Emerald Place- see above 
 Misc. updates 
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is December 5, 2018 at the Ritter 
Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass ave   
 
 
The Commission adjourned at 10:25 PM by a motion of TD and  second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve the motion. 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: ALL DOCUMENTS PRESENTED DURING THE COURSE OF THIS MEETING ARE AVAILIBLE IN THE 
CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE. THE AUDIO RECORDING IS ALSO AVAILIBLE.  