===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
                          MINUTES  
Billotta Meeting Room 
17 Main Street  
Lunenburg, Ma 01462 
August 15, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Video recorded. 
 
Call to Order Vice Chair Dwyer presiding- all members present except Chiarman Bursch and Mr. Luck 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Mike Nault of MJN Realty Trust  for  the construction of a single family home within 
the buffer zone at 141 Hemlock Road.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on August 15th 2018 The 
public is invited to attend 
 
The meeting was continued by request of the applicant to the September 5 2017 meeting at 7 PM by a motion of KJ and a 
second by JR with a unanimous vote. MM noted that the labor day weekend site inspection was not possible for Mr. Nault due to  
him being out of state for his neice’s wedding. MM indicated he would send a doodle poll to the members for dates and times the 
commission could walk with Mr Nault. 
 
DOCUMENTS FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPROVAL WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT, A REMEDIAL PLAN NARRATIVE BY 
NOURSE ENVIRONMENTAL AND A REMDIATION BLUEPRINT BY SOILS SMITH DESIGNS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a COTINUED Notice of Intent by Tim Ialeggio for an addition to a single family home, a septic, grading and wetland 
restoration at 564 Page Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on August 15th 2018 The 
public is invited to attend 
 
Mr Illegiao attended representing himself. BP indicated he toured the site and informed the commission of its current condition.  
MM Indicated he is satisfied with the current stability (grass) of the site and based on submitted data recommended a standar d 
Order of Conditions. BP moved for a standard order. CC seconded and the commission unanimously approved the motion  
 
===PAGE 2===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan 
at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on August 15th 
2018 The public is invited to attend 
 
This was continued to the meeting of September 5, 2018 at 7 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by CC. The vote was 
approved by four of five members with Commissioner Jack Rabbitt recusing himself from the matter.  
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPROVAL WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION FORM 
AND A PLAN BY MARSDEN ENGINEERING.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Loretta Godfrey for the placement of a Deck at 55 Spring Street. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the 
Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on August 15th 2018 The public is invited to attend. 
 
Steve Marsden appeared before the commission for the proposed deck with was proposed to be cantilevered and felt he should 
file as a courtesy. KJ moved for a negative determination. BP seconded and the commission unanimously approved  
 
DOCUMENTS FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPROVAL WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT, AND A BLUEPRINT BY DAVID E. 
ROSS AND ASSOCIATES ENTITLED “ SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM” 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Jeanne Clark for the grading to accommodate a septic system at 986 Fischer Road 
Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on August 15th 2018 The public is invited to attend. 
 
 Dan Romero from David Ross appeared and represented the applicant. It was noted by both TD and BP that grading fpr  the 
system was to the edge of the 30 foot zone. JR examined the possibility of eliminating the grading. MM noted that there would  be 
greater overall impacts in the buffer zone with moving the system. 
 
BP moved for a standard order with the added condition of blueberry bushes will be planted at the toe of slope to the wetland 
resource area to establish a vegetative buffer. JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by David King for the placement of a rolling dock at 667 Reservoir Road. Application  
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the 
Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2nd floor on August 15th 2018 The public is invited to attend. 
 
Continued to the September 5, 2018 meeting at 7 PM b y a motion of KJ and a second of CC and a unanimous vote to approve 
the motion. 
  
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO 255 Sunset Lane MM noted that the deadline for removal of the driveway was met and there was 
an erosion event. BP noted that this issue could be resolved by MMM on site with a meeting with the 
developer.  
188 Burrage Street- Enforcement Order – ongoing clearing of the suite. 
EO Battle 168 West Street- moving towards filing an RDA 
===PAGE 3===
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road- Brian Marchetti appeared before the 
commission to narrate the current site conditions and the concept for a Notice of Intent filing. His 
goal was for Mid- September. MM noted that the old order was now expired and that the new order 
would supersede if granted. If the commission granted a new order the commission should issue a 
certificate of compliance negating the old order. BP moved to establish a deadline of Oct 3, 2018  as 
the date of the hearing for the Notice of Intent which would make the deadline for fili ng the notice of 
intent with the office as 9/18/18 by 11:30 AM. CC seconded with a unanimous vote. 
New Business –  Proposed Eagle Scout Project KJ is working with an eagle scout for trail cleaning and marking on the 
Hollis Road property and will update the commission. 
 Old Business –Robbs Hill management update- MM is attempting to have a site walk date established with Gary 
Gouldrup. MM informed that Mr. Gouldrup will be at one of the meetings next month.  BP expressed that the 
commission should prioritize getting the small town forest cleanup and gate completed first. KJ stated he will work on 
the gate and MM is gathering quotes for the cleanup work. 
            Land Exchange on Gilchrest –updates ( if any) – MM reviewed the conservation restriction/land 
donation combination with the commission. BP reviewed with the commission events at his attendance at the public 
hearing portion of the Board of Selectmen meeting. Me 
Certificates of Compliance – 
Extension Permit – None to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – August 1, 2018 This will be discussed at the next meeting 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : - to be discussed at next meeting. 
 Legal Updates and Requests –  
 183 Hemlock, Update 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available 
 842R Chase Road – if any 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update 
 155 Reservoir Road 
 Butterfly Lane 
 Misc. updates MM noted that the open space committee is currently looking for a replacement for Mr. Dwyer. 
The Commission indicated they will speak to the Chair as he does regularly attend the meetings.  
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is September 5  2018 7:00 PM at 
the Ritter memorial Building at 960 Mass Ave.   