===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
minutes 
Wednesday, January 3, 2018 7:00 PM regular meeting  
960 Mass Ave, Ritter Land Use Building 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
All members present except Mr. Pease and Chairman Bursch. 
 
Call to Order- Called to order at 7 PM with Vice Chair Dwyer presiding 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment  Elisha Erb, representing a landowner that wishes to donate 17 acres to the commission abutting the  Pleasant 
Street land came before the commission noting that the land runs into Fitchburg and the Conservation Commission and City 
Council coted in favor. MM outlined the procedure that is required for us to accept a donation and we are awaiting word from 
town Counsel. MM indicated he would forward our Counsels contact information to Mr. Erb. He also asked Mr. Erb to ask his 
client if he would be willing to pay the fee for a preliminary 21e assessment. He stated he would ask, however he felt it was  not 
likely. This matter was continued pending his interaction with Lunenburg Counsel  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Xu Minh of K & E Realty Trust of 5 electric Ave for the Construction of a parking  Lot 
and Storm water system within the buffer zone at 5 Electric Avenue Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Building 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM..The 
public is invited to attend. 
 
This meeting was continued to 1/17/17 at 7 PM due to the applicant not appearing by motion  of KJ and a second by CL 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
307 Townsend Harbor Road (n) Unauthorized Beach expansion – update- informed commission the 
certified mail was not picked up and is having a constable serve.  
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)- awaiting file from engineer- MM did speak to Ducharme and Dillis and 
Stan Dillis emailed that he is working on the NOI filing 
Updates from 44 and 46 Fire Road 12- 44 Fire Road 12 has filed AN RDA for the next meeting 
according to MM and 46 has sent a receipt showing a replacement rolling metal dock for the pre -
existing one. 
Emerald Place Beach- erosion issues- MR. Cleaves should be coming in for the next meeting 
depending on weather breaking for him to view the property. 
New Business –  842 R Chase Road  - Follow up from town meeting. – Mark Popham will be going onto the land as  
              soon as the weather breaks. At this moment he can’t thoroughly review the area.                                   
===PAGE 2===
Old Business –   Small Town forest update- MM noted the logging job has been very well done and Gary Gouldrup will 
be at the next meeting to speak to the public regarding any concerns they have.  
Certificates of Compliance – None presented for consideration 
Extension Permit – None presented for consideration 
Minutes of previous meetings  - review and approval of – 12/6    the minutes were approved by a motion of CC a second 
by JR and a unanimous vote.                      
Committee Reports – JR reviewed outreach recently accomplished by storm water 
Treasurer’s Report : None 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests – Enforcement order cover letter- MM noted that he had sent the members a 
draft enforcement cover letter and is awaiting input.  
 MM noted that the LSIC is going to appear at the Jan 17 th meeting. Cl noted that the report is late and cant 
see holding a meeting without the information. MM noted that it was submitted at the end of November, 
however, the information is incomplete and they are awaiting Mr. Wagner’s potion of the report to add to the 
annual report. TD asked maybe to consider asking for the 7th of February. MM indicated he initially wanted 
the 21st due to past complaints issued by LSIC the first meeting of the month coincided with the LSIC boards. 
CL did ask about inquiring to a revision to the management plan regarding a secci  dish threshold and would 
ask SOLitude. 
 338 Sunset Lane- MM noted Mr. Viviano had removed a pile of dead vegetation and will replace plantings in 
the spring. 
 Land gift, Pleasant Street/ Youngs Road – see above 
 Report of inspection at 186 Mass Ave per request of BOS- MM noted he and the building commissioner had 
inspected this area, a former gravel pit to evaluate if any remediation is necessary. It was agreed that 
wetlands were developing on the property and it was best to leave it alone. The building department filed a 
follow up with the BOS. 
 
 
Communications / Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for January 17  2018 at the Billotta Meeting Room  - 2nd floor-Town 
Hall 17 Main Street at 7:00 PM ( Note LSIC to appear at next meeting for yearly update and report)  
 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:40 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by JR.  