===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
    MINUTES  
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
Lunenburg, Ma 01462 
November 7, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being AUDIO recorded. 
. 
 
Call to Order by Chairman RB at 7 PM with all members attending 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment- KJ mentioned the pollinator habitat area at 123 Hollis Road has been mowed and prepared for added 
plantings- MM mentioned that on 11/13 the annual inspections for the Hollis Rd CR and the Peabody CR will take place.  
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
Appointment: Luneburg Snow Riders- annual meeting with Commission- Tom Betram appeared before the commission and 
spoke of the laist of trails that are currently used and improvements that are proposed to the trail network. RB reviewed the 
Triumvirate that oversees the hunting hill property and that any trails used needs that full permission. The work at small town was 
reviewed with the commission asking MM to send a message to DPW regarding obtaining culverts. Mr. Bertram also requested a 
blanket permission to allow for work to move forward every year and that there would be an annual appearance to the 
commission for a review. RB expressed concern due to the fact that annual permisasion is a regulation waiver and does not wan t 
to set a precedent for blanket waiver. CL, JR and BP expressed a term instead of a perpetual granting to allow future 
commissions to re-evaluate. BP moved to approved the trail usage for a five year term with the snow riders appearing annualy to 
review usage and proposed work CL seconded and the commission approved unanimously..  
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Michael and Barbara Battle for grading and planting within  the 200 foot 
riverfront/100 foot buffer zone and an addition within the riverfront at 168 West Street..Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The 
meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
This hearing continued with applicants permission to November 28, 2018 by a motion of CC and a second by KJ with a 
unanimous vote by the commission to approve.  
 
(DEP 208-1133) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown 
management plan at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for 
===PAGE 2===
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 
7 PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
This hearing continued with applicants permission to November 28, 2018 by a motion of CC and  a second by KJ with a 
unanimous vote by the commission to approve.  
 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 Fire Road 19. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the Ritter memorial Land 
Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The meeting is scheduled to take place in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 7 PM The 
public is invited to attend. 
 
This hearing continued with applicants permission to November 28, 2018 by a motion of CC and a second by KJ with a 
unanimous vote by the commission to approve.  
 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
355 Northfield Road- Enforcement Order- Failure to record deed restriction.  MM informed the 
commission that he had issued an enforcement order to Richard Contaxes for failure to record the 
required deed restriction. As of the meeting date, the owner had complied with the order and 
recorded the required deed restriction.  MM considered the matter closed and would be removed . 
101 Pleasant Street – update- MM reported that Mr Brady has not complied with the deadlines given to him 
with respect to the bond. The Commission by motion of CL and a second by BP instructed MM to commence 
fines of 100 dollars per day. 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road -Mm informed the commission that the matter is 
going to be heard on a Notice of Intent filing for the meeting of 11/28/18  
Butterfly Lane- update on multiple NON’s – mm working with the residents on filings. 
155 Reservoir Road- special meeting date to be set 
New Business –  Consideration for a letter to the ZBA regarding a common drive ( Saliba). Neil Gorman from David Ross 
appeared before the commission with 2 different alternative configurations for driveway access. On configuration would require 
an appearance before the ZBA, however it severely reduced impacts to the amount of wetlands that would need to be altered 
and replicated for the limited crossing. The Commission voted to have MM send a letter to Mr. Gorman outlining it’s support t o 
the ZBA of the preferred configuration. The motion to author the letter was made by KJ with a second by TD and a unanimous 
vote of the commission.  
                             Forest Stewardship grants and planning. –MM noted concerns pertaining to the stewardship planning on 
Hollis Road made by Gini Albertson who was concerned the bird habitat enhancement not be too close to the pollinator habitat. 
RB explained the stewardship process and that all such concerns would be taken into consideration as the commission’s 
consulting forester would take that into consideration. 
         
Old Business – Robbs Hill Conservation stewardship and maintenance plan ( if any update)- Lyn Mann requested a 
stewardship workshop be held on a night separate from a meeting. BP felt it could be held on a meeting with a light agenda. H e 
was noting that in his estimation to date that everyone’s opinion on the Robbs Hill matter has been expresse d except fot the 
commission’s. RB expressed an opinion that the cutting plan proposed was a little extreme and would need to see signage and 
gates and a parking area update included. KJ noted that taking the trails into consideration was important. RB stat ed that with 
the new bird habitat enhancement plan for Hollis Road coming, the formulation and implementation can be used as a learning 
experience. The cleanup work accomplished to date on the small town forest was also discussed.  
 
Land Exchange on Gilchrest –updates ( if any) -  The initial document was reviewed and a phone      
 conference with town counsel noted several deficiencies that would be addressed in a follow -up  
 meeting.  
             Work at the Small Town Forest- see robs hill above. 
===PAGE 3===
              Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat assessment planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area  -See  
            above Robbs Hill  
Certificates of Compliance – 91 Gilchrest Street  - 208-1101- Continued to 11/28 no action taken 
Extension Permit – 22 Oak Ridge Road- no action taken 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of October 3 and October 19 – continued no action taken 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review - Chase Road Rear 
 183 Hemlock, Update – progress made project almost complete 
 101 Pleasant Street – EO update- see above 
 842R Chase Road – if any- no action still with town counsel 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal – no  action 
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update (If any) none 
 155 Reservoir Road- reviewed data by Rose Land Survey is in. MM and RB to meet with original design 
engineer to review data 
 Shady Point – Reviewing alternatives with landowner 
 Emerald Place- EO sent out 
 Misc. updates 
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is November 28, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
Location to Be Determined. ( Please note: The Commission’s normal meeting date of 11/21 has been 
moved to 11/28 in consideration of the Thanksgiving day holiday)   