===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
              MINUTES  
960 Mass Ave, Lunenburg 
August 1, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio recorded. 
 
 
 
Call to Order All members in attendance with RB participating by remote- all votes for this meeting were taken roll call 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A WPA FORM 1 BY RON WILSON, A 
SKETCH PLAN AND ORTHO PHOTO SHOWING SHED AND TREE LOCATION, AND A 2004 ORTHO 
PHOTO PRESENTED BY CL DURING THE MEETING 
] 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Shady Pont for the placement of a shed and the cutting of several trees at Shady 
Point Campground at 701 Reservoir Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on August 1, 2018 at 
7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Ron Wilson appeared on behalf of Shady Point. During the course of the hearing CL and JR expressed concern over 
maintenance of the tree canopy as the applicant was proposing the removal of 12 trees. MM noted the trees were already dead 
and as such did not contribute to the canopy. CL presented an Ortho photo dated 2004 that showed canopy and compared it to 
an ortho from current. It was suggested that 12 replacement trees be planted. RB noted that the commission had been requiring  
some type of mitigation and stressed canopy maintenance is important. The Commission issued a negative determination with 
the condition that 12 trees be replanted over a two year period. The applicant objected to the tree planting requirement and 
requested that it be noted for the record. The motion passed on a split roll call vote with CL, JR, TD and RB voting for the motion 
and BP, KJ and CC voting against. (Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely)  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Scott Benjamin for work at 40 Fire Rd 12 Road will be held. Work entails Installation of  tw o 
docks within the buffer zone Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on August 1, 2018 at 7 
PM. The public is invited to attend 
===PAGE 2===
 
Scott Benjamin appeared on his own behalf. CL noted that the current condition of the site was that the shore line was a 
concrete wall and as such he did not see a habitat issue. RB and TD indicated that they were concerned the impacts would 
come from increased boat traffic on land under water. MM expressed his opinion agreeing with CL. A motion to issue a standard 
OOC to allow the work by CL with a second by JR. The motion was approved by a split vote with RB TD and BP voting No and 
CL, CC, KJ and BP voting yes. (Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Mike Nault of MJN Realty Trust  for the construction of a single family home withi n 
the buffer zone at 141 Hemlock Road.  Application and supporting documents are avai lable for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on August 1, 2018 at 
7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Doug Smith appeared with Mike Nault. The plans were examined and the meeting continued to August 15, 2018 at 7 PM  in the 
Billotta meeting room with due to late receipt by a motion of BP and a second by KJ.  and the commission unanimously approved. 
(Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a COTINUED Notice of Intent by Tim Ialeggio for an addition to a single family home, a septic, grading and wetland  
restoration at 564 Page Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on August 1, 2018 at 
7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Doug Smith appeared with Tim Ialeggio. The plans were examined and the meeting continued to August 15, 2018 at 7 PM in the 
Billotta meeting room with due to late receipt by a motion of BP and a second by KJ and the commission unanimously approved. 
(Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan 
at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on August 
1, 2018 at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
John Fortune appeared on behalf of Hickory Hills. He presented the response to DEP and Caleb Slater. After examining the 
response. It was the commission’s decision to continue to August 15, 2018 at the Bilotta meeting Room at 7 PM. If Caleb Slate r 
did not reply to the response then the meeting could be continued again. The motion was made by KJ and seconded by TD and 
the commission unanimously approved. (Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO 255 Sunset Lane- John Harrison appeared and apologized for the mistake with the driveway. He 
pledged to remove and correct the slopes by August 11, 2018 and the looming and seeding by 
September 1, 2018. This was approved by a motion of CL and a second of KJ with a unanimous vote 
on the timeline. (Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 
188 Burrage Street- Enforcement Order – removal of materials ongoing 
EO Battle 168 West Street – Barbara Battle Appeared and outlined the work. MM outlined the violation 
and it was agreed the Battles would file a retroactive RDA for the work. This was approved by a 
motion of CL and a second of KJ with a unanimous vote on the timeline.  (Roll call vote as RB was 
participating remotely) 
  
===PAGE 3===
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road – to appear at a later meeting 
 
Semerjian Notice of Non – Peninsula Drive – Dayton Semerjian appeared and noted that as outlined 
in the letter the vegetation was removed, however, after receiving the letter, he replaced it. He 
resented pictures . The commission decided to dismiss and thanked him for the remedial work.  The 
dismissal was approved by a motion of CL and a second of KJ with a unanimous vote on the 
timeline. (Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 
 
New Business –  Hickory Hills – Algae Treatment- Steve Douglas appeared and presented photos to the commission 
along with a presentation on why the associating feels the treatment is necessary. The Commission disagreed with the 
conclusion noting that the order of conditions listed the use of algaecide as a last resort and requested that HHL 
examine alternatives. 
 Old Business –Robbs Hill management update MM reported Gary Gouldrup would present the update 
 
      Land Exchange on Gilchrest – proposed conservation restriction – The commission examined a proposal that would 
swap a 20 foot right of way for 2.3 acres of land at 151 Gilchrest into town ownership and 4.7 acres into a conservation 
restriction with an exclusive use easement for passive recreation only granted to the town. The commission voted 
unanimously to support this proposal by a motion of BP and a second by CC  (Roll call vote as RB was participating 
remotely) 
 
Certificates of Compliance –UNITIL , Electric Ave DEP 208-1085  2 New West Townsend Road 208-1026- Unitil was 
placed on hold . New west Townsend was approved by a motion of KJ and second by Cl (Roll call vote as RB was 
participating remotely) 
 
Extension Permit – None to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – June 27th – approved by a motion of BP and a second by KJ. 
(Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 
Committee Reports – storm water 319 grant information or updates 
Treasurer’s Report :  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests –  
 183 Hemlock, Update 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available 
 842R Chase Road – review of  preliminary assessment 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update 
 155 Reservoir Road 
 Butterfly Lane 
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is August 15,  2018 7:00 PM at 
the Bilotta meeting room 17 Main Street Town Hall second floor.   
 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 10:30 PM by a motion of JK and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to 
approve (Roll call vote as RB was participating remotely) 
 