===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462       
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
Minutes 
17 Main Street 
2nd Floor, Bilotta Meeting Room 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
7 P.M., February 21, 2018 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being audio recorded. 
 
Call to Order By Vice Chair Dwyer at 7 PM with Mr. Rabbitt absent and Chair Bursch participating remotely.  
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointment: Drone presentation by Scott Pitta of Drone Consultant Group - David Price also appeared he outlined their 
experiences with flight and drones. The Gentlemen demonstrated Drone models and government uses and 
applications. They outlined community involvement. They also outlined valuable uses such as locating a missing 
person using a thermal camera. CL had inquired about uses for lake management. The gentlemen responded that they 
are experimenting with it and noted that floodplain locations have been possible with it. 
 
Appointment: LSIC Updates- Dominic Meringolo represented the LSIC. He reviewed the annual report and indicated that 
data was missing pertaining to Mr. Wagner’s report. The Commission requested the following information be forth 
coming: 
 
1. Clarity and Algae Count Sampling: 
1. It was agreed that the LSIC will submit for review and discussion discussion/approval the following: 
                                                               i.      A revised map showing the points to be monitored for clarity. Current map in the LMP has 14 points, it was felt by all 
that this is to many but the two that have been used is not enough. Something more around 6 was suggested. 
                                                             ii.      The sampling map will also indicate locations where algae count samples will be taken. These could include the clarity 
monitoring sites but would also add sites that are close to shore (example state protocol of 10-20 ft off shore and/or 3-4 ft deep) 
                                                           iii.      The requirement for taking algae samples will be put back into the LMP but the limit when samples are taken will be 
reduced to 5 ft. 
2. The LSIC indicated that there was additional drawdown data available and a report is provided to the State each year, 
all available data will be submitted to the LCC. 
3. The new Order of Conditions from the Shirley Conservation Commission will be provided to the LCC. 
4. It was noted by the LSIC that the drawdown was terminated at 5 ½ ft in 2017, as in past years, when they received a 
complaint from a Spring St. resident that they had well/water problems. This brought up the point that the timing of 
the Annual Report, November, may not be optimum as the drawdown data stops at Nov. 30, before the maximum 
drawdown level is reached. It should also be noted that the drawdown data from Nov 2016 through refill should also 
have been included in this report as it was not in the 2017 Annual Report. If it wasn’t clear, we should request: 
1. Drawdown/refill data for the period Nov. 30, 2016 through April 2017. Data should include lake level, 
outflow and dam gate settings. 
===PAGE 2===
2. All residents who reported water issues should also be identified by address and any other pertinent 
information 
5. The historic data for 2007 needs to be added to the table if available. 
 
Due to time, some of the items identified as non-compliance issues in the list of questions submitted in advance, still need to be 
addressed. Comments and responses to these should be provided to the LCC 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a WPA form 1 by Martha Macdonald and a site plan for 221 Goodrich Street by David E. 
Ross. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Martha Macdonald for the construction of a single family home and driveway within  
the buffer zone at 221 Goodrich Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the 2nd floor Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 
PM on February  21, 2018. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Martha Macdonald appeared before the commission and outlined the particulars of the lot.MM  noted the determination is only for 
the last part of the yard grading. KJ moved for a negative (3) determination. Mr Luck seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection  and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Marley and Ryan Dixon for the construction of a Sandy beach at 307 Townsend 
Harbor road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission  office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting is scheduled in the 2nd floor Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on February  21, 2018. 
The public is invited to attend. 
 
BP motioned to continue cc second for March 7 2018 at 7 PM the motion was approved by unanimous vote 
. 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by North County Land Trust for work at 548 Northfield Road will be he ld. 
Work entails Installation of a small bridge to span a stream to make open space trails accessible within riverfront and the buffer 
zone thereof.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling  
978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the 
meeting is scheduled in the 2nd floor Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on February  21, 2018. 
The public is invited to attend. 
 
KJ motion to continue to 3/7/18 at 7PM seconded by BP with a unanimous vote to approve the motion. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Scott Benjamin for work at 40 Fire Rd 12 Road will be held. Work 
entails Installation of three docks within the buffer zone Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline,, the meeting is scheduled in the 2nd floor Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street in Lunenburg, 
Ma at 7:00 PM on February  21, 2018. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Continued to 3/7 at 7 BP moved and CL seconded.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Xu Minh of K & E Realty Trust of 5 electric Av e for the Construction of a parking Lot 
and Storm water system within the buffer zone at 5 Electric Avenue Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 2nd floor Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on 
February  21, 2018. The public is invited to attend (NOTE: CHAIR BURSCH RECUSED HIMSELF AND DID NOT 
PARTICIPATE) 
 
===PAGE 3===
Kim Minh presented. Kim outlined the project is within the buffer zone. The Commission noted only a small portion was within the 
buffer zone. MM noted that with a negative determination he would like the condition added that snow will not be deposited over 
the stone wall. The Commission remined Kim that snow removal by the wetland must be done off site. BP examined the plans for 
drainage.CL inquired about the purpose of the island. Steve Douglas 24 wintergreen court asked if Kim was the owner she said 
yes. KJ moved to issue a negative determination with the condition that snow removal must be off site and not over the stone 
wall. BP seconded and the commission approved unanimously. 
 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a Notice of Intent by Hickory Hills Landowners Association and a Plan by 
Tighe and Bond entitled” Dam overtopping Project” dated December 6, 2017  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Hickory Hills Lake Association for work at Hickory Hills Dam will be held. Work entails remedial 
work on the Hickory Hills dam within the buffer zone and, within the 200 foot river front. Application and supporting documen ts 
are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF 
is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, , the 2nd floor Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street in Lunenburg, 
Ma at 7:00 PM on February  21, 2018. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Melvin Bertram presented the Notice of Intent and plan. The Notice of Intent called for the filling of a seepage area current ly 
labeled as wetland. After consideration the commission agreed as this area was caused by a seep in the dam and the dam itself 
served the functions of wetland, this small area was not significant and instructed MM to fill out a WPA form 6 Notice of non  
significance. The proposal was for the placement of a reinforcing structure on the face of the dam to allow  it to withstand an 
overtopping This structure would be re-covered by loom and seed.  
 
After consideration of the documentation, the commission moved to issue a standard Order of Conditions with the issuance of 
the WPA form 6. This was by motion of KJ and a second by CL with a unanimous vote; 
 
Notice of Field Change: Lunenburg Water District for 496 Mass Ave (DEP 208-1114) Anthony Cleaves presented the changes 
which involved the moving of the electric utilities. This move was slightly father out of the buffer zone and presented no ch ange in 
conditions granted under the current order and was accepted as a minor change.  
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
307 Townsend Harbor Road (n) Unauthorized Beach expansion – update Will be on the next agenda 
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)- awaiting file from engineer- will be at the April 4, 2018 meeting with a 
Notice of Intent Hearing. 
Updates from 46 Fire Road 12- see above 
Emerald Place Beach- erosion issues- Mark Bursch will be at the next meeting to speak to the work 
performed on the beach 
New Business –  Police Department ATV purchase – After Consideration, the commission did not take any action as CL 
noted it was already funded for purchase by the Town.  
              Forest Stewardship Grant – No action                                   
Old Business –   Small Town forest update- Gary Gouldrup appeared and explained the completed cutting at small town 
forest. There were no questions from the public.  
Certificates of Compliance – None presented for consideration 
Extension Permit – Tri Town Landing- A site inspection will be held before the next meeting to consider a modification 
in plans. 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – 1/6    - no action taken                       
Committee Reports – 
Treasurer’s Report : None 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests – Enforcement order cover letter -MM reminded the Commission he had 
emailed the draft cover letter and reviewed what the content was 
 183 Hemlock, Update – none at this meeting 
 811 Chase Road, Update – no action by the owner at this point 
===PAGE 4===
 101 Pleasant Street/72 and 76 Mass Ave – update – MM noted that the owner of Mass Ave wanted to 
demolish a structure and possibly serve as a connection to the property at 101 Pleasant Street. MM noted he 
reviewed the necessary permits and filings as required by state law and is awaiting filings by the own er, 
 Reservoir Road, Update 
 70 Oak Ridge, Update – Erosion Control is in good shape. There is minimal work going on at the house 
portion of the project 
 842R Chase Road – update on preliminary assessment – no action 
 Land gift, Pleasant Street/ Young’s Road – brief update – MM spoke to the commission on a meeting with 
Town Counsel. The Commission indicated they were not interested in the land as it is mostly wetland and is 
not developable or useful for passive recreation. 
 
 
Communications / Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for March 7 , 2018 at the Ritter Memorial  Building at 960 Mass Ave 
The meeting adjourned at 9:45 Pm by motion of KJ and a second by BP. 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS CITED IN THESE MINUTES ARE AVAILIBLE AT THE COMMISSION OFFICE.  