===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462       
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
17 Main Street 2nd Floor Billotta Meeting Room 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
7 P.M., April 18, 2018 (revised) 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being video recorded. 
 
Call to Order- all members were in attendance. 
Announcements     JR spoke of  the 319 grant being pursued by the storm water committee. BP narrated the results of 
the meeting with MRPC. 
 
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointment: USDA Presentation Javier Marin presented a slideshow to the commission and the general public on the 
emerald ash borer. 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION FORM AN D A MODIFIED 
SKETCH BY APPLICANT DATED April 17, 2018 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination by Scott Patterson for the rehabilitation of an existing paver patio and replacement of 
footings within the 100 foot buffer zone and 200 foot river front at 914 Flatt Hill Road  Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled at the Billotta Meeting Room at 17 Main 
Street 2nd Floor at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Chares Hadju representing Scott Patterson had recounted that there was more detail. The dock was not going to be a part of the 
filing, however JR inquired if he would be interested in removing it. The areas of overgrowth will be removed  by hand. The 
applicant indicated willingness to remove the dock. He noted the work on the outlined footing will be done from the inside of  the 
structure. CL inquired about the patio. The applicant answered it will be a new 12 by 12 patio replacing the exi sting with the 
exception that the wood trim will be replaced with a granite like substance. It will not be an impervious service. Hay Bales are 
added to the plans. KJ moved to issue for a negative determination. BP Seconded and the commission voted unanimo usly.  
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a request for a determination by Marley and Ryan Dixon for the construction of a Sandy beach 
at 307 Townsend Harbor road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled at the Billotta Meeting Room at 17 Main Street 2 nd Floor at 7 PM. The public is 
invited to attend. 
===PAGE 2===
 
The applicant has requested a continuance. After the examination of the file and the dates of the enforcement order RB 
recommended that the applicant be allowed one more continuance and if they do not show up with a viable plan at the May 2, 
2018 meeting fines will commence it was approved with a motion by PB and a second by CC. The continuance was approved By 
A motion of TD and a second of KJ 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT AND A PLAN OF LAND BY DUCHARME 
AND DILLIS DATED APRIL 12, 2018 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent  by Signature Living LLC for the construction of a 3 family  unit at 654 Mass Ave 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled 
at the Billotta Meeting Room at 17 Main Street 2 nd Floor at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Gregory Roy presented the commission the updates approved by the planning board. KJ moved to approved the order of 
conditions. CC seconded ant the commission voted unanimously.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan at 
Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled at the Billotta Meeting Room at 17 Main Street 2 nd Floor at 7 PM. The public is 
invited to attend 
  
This was continued to the May 2, 2018 meeting at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM by a motion of KJ and a second from BP. 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION FORM AND A MODIFIED 
PLAN BY THE APPLICANT DATED MARCH 2018 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for A Determination for an addition to a single family home by David Osoff  at 46 Fire Road 12. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
at the Bilotta Meeting Room 2nd floor 17 Main Street. The public is invited to attend 
 
It was recommended that Mr.Osoff file more detailed plans as the front ston e retaining wall was not listed in the determination 
request not the plan. More detail on both buffer zones and detailed erosion protection and grading was recommended.CL moved 
for a positive determination. BP seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for A Determination for an addition to Dippin Donuts at 455 Mass Ave by Paul Karapatsas.   
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
at the Bilotta Meeting Room 2nd floor 17 Main Street. The public is invited to attend 
 
 RB had inquired about moving the location of the cooler. The applicant indicated a willingness on moving from the rear to the 
side of the building. They will research with building and the board of health. 
 
BP moved to continue to the May 2, 2018 meeting at 90 Mass Ave at 7 PM. CC seconded and the commission approved 
unanimously. 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION FORM WITH A HAND 
SKETCH BY THE APPLICANT DATED MARCH 2018 
===PAGE 3===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for A Determination for an addition to and a deck addition to a single family home at 564 page street by 
Tim Ialeggio  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting is scheduled at the Bilotta Meeting Room 2 nd floor 17 Main Street. The public is invited to attend 
 
MM and RB noted several violations on the property consisting of work prio r to commission approval , work within the pond area 
and regrading and vegetation clearing. They recommended that the applicant withdraw the file and have his engineer file a notice 
of intent for the work proposed and remediation.  The applicant withdrew and no vote was required for this action. 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BY KENNETH TULLY AND A PLAN OF 
LAND BY DUCHARME AND DILLIS. 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Kenneth Tully for the construction of a single family home at 54 Maple Parkway  
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
at the Billotta Meeting Room at 17 Main Street 2 nd Floor at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Jack Maloney appeared on behalf of the applicant and oriented the commission as to the condition of the site in question.  MM 
requested that the meeting be continued to May 2 at 7 PM at 960 Mass Ave in order to allow the plan to be amended to show the 
wetland at the rear of the property. He felt it was important to be shown so that anyone buying the property will note the we tland 
is there prior to doing any work to expand the back yard. The applicant agreed. KJ moved to continue to the 2 nd of May per MM’s 
recommendation. CC seconded and the commission approved the motion unanimously.  
 
 
DOCMUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BY MATSON HOMES AND A NOTICE 
OF INTENT PLAN BY WHITMAN AND BINGHAM ASSOCIATES.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a publi c 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Matson Homes for the construction of a single family home at 63 Prospect Street.  
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
at the Billotta Meeting Room at 17 Main Street 2 nd Floor at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Wes Flis is representing the applicant. He outlined the project and the impacts and how they are mitigated. He noted there is  no 
work other than grading in the 50-foot No structure zone and no work within the 30 foot no touch zone. He did note the extension 
of a culvert with the work of DPW and a perimeter drain.  The sheds proposed were removed. It was noted that the straw wattles 
as drawn on the plans is proposed as the limit of work. The limit of work is going to drawn on to the plan showing the limit of work 
is to be no closer than 50 feet to the wetland. The commission voted to approve an order of conditions with the condition added 
that the plan would be amended to include the change of the no touch zone to 50 feet by  a motion of CL and a second by CC 
with a unanimous vote. 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)-Notice of Intent to be heard at the April 18, 2018 meeting 
Shady Point- structure moving within the buffer zone. MM noted he has a site meeting coming up to 
review the site and review any future scope of work to determine a filing of an RDA with 
consideration of nothing planned within the no touch zone. 
New Business – Land Exchange on Gilchrest- any update if available – A site inspection is scheduled to do a site 
inspection the day following the meeting at 12:30 PM at the land use office.  
             Hickory Hills information for suction harvesting.  – to be submitted for a future meeting. (likely May 16 
2018)            
Old Business -Small Town forest update- RB met with DPW and DPW offered aid for specifications for a gate and the 
parking lot (proposed). He also wanted a future bid for hydroseed /butterfly mix for the exposed areas.  
Certificates of Compliance – None presented for consideration 
Extension Permit –  
===PAGE 4===
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of –3/21 and 4/6   3/21- BP presented amendments to the minutes.            
Committee Reports – 
Treasurer’s Report :  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests – MM noted that he will be in district court on May 2, 2018 for 101 pleasant 
street 
 183 Hemlock, Update mm meeting with him next week (4/26) to review completion of scope for the work and 
is compliant so far.  
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available- no new owner information yet as far as MM knows 
 70 Oak Ridge, Update- MM is doing scheduled inspection for next week for new work. 
 842R Chase Road – update on preliminary assessment. MM noted LSP Poppham should have report ready 
for May 4. 
 155 Reservoir Road updates- tentative meetings with residents to review allowable work on restricted land  – 
Mm noted he is attempting to get a meeting together in May with residents to determine limits of and future 
work. 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies and walks in the woods preliminary results of 
meeting with the MRPC- MM emphasized that it is his opinion a trail master plan is beneficial.. 
 
 
 
Communications / public comment/- BP suggested a meeting to finish regulation review. It was suggested Saturday 
June 16th at 9 am in the Ritter building. MM noted that there may only be one meeting in July as July 4 is on Wednesday.  
 
 
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is May 2, 2018 7:00 PM at 960 Mass Ave 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 9:30 PM by a motion of CL and a second by TD with a unanimous vote. 
 
 
 
NOTE : DOCUMENTS CITED ABOVE ARE AVAILABLE FOR REVIEWE AT THE CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE.  
 