===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
              MINUTES  
Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Mass Ave 
June 27, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio recorded. 
 
Call to Order Meeting called to order by Chairman Bursch with all members in attendance except CL. 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
Documents reviewed for approval was a revised drawing updated by the applicant at this hearing 
by agreement with the applicant. 
Appointment: 455 Townsend Harbor prior request for a determination :  request for approval of a minimal change – addition of a 
pergola on top of an existing deck with the addition of 2 footings within the deck foot print.  
 
Jim Shearer appeared before the commission and explained the proposed change. It was shown to be a proposed solid roof. It 
was determined by the commission that it was a minimal change with the addition that the gutter will be drained to a rain bar rel 
as was drawn in to the plans at the meeting and was approved by a motion of KJ and a second by BP  to recess until the drawing 
was complete This drawing would be reviewed and ratified during the course of the meeting. The hearing was reconvened by a 
motion of JR and a second by TD  the changes requested were reviewed and approved by a motion of  jr and a second by KJ 
with a 5-1 vote to approve with RB dissenting. 
 
Documents reviewed for approval was a Notice of Intent and a revised drawing updated by the 
applicant at this hearing by agreement with the applicant. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING on a notice of intent by Richard Trainor. for the addition of a 24 foot by 24 foot 
garage at 426 Reservoir Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled for June 27, 2018 at 7 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave The public is 
invited to attend. 
 
Richard Trainor appeared with the changes requested sowing the driveway moving forward by 10 feet and the addition of a 
trench. RB mentioned that the plans did not include the second trench to accommodate the driveway.  Mr Trainor amended the 
plans after a motion to recess by KJ and a second by CC. The meeting was reconvened by a motion of RB and a second by KJ. 
The drawing changes was reviewed and accepted.  A motion to issue an Order of Conditions  by JR and a second by TD with a 
unanimous vote to approve. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Request for A Determination for an addition to Dippin Donuts at 455 Mass Ave by Paul Karapatsas.   
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled 
for June 27, 2018 at 7 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend. 
 
This meeting was continued as the applicant failed to appear by motion of KJ and a second by BP to the July 18, 2018 meeting.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan 
at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled for June 27, 2018 at 7 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave 
 
Continued until July 18 2018 by a motion of RB and a second by TD. 
 
Appointment: meeting with the residents of the recent Reservoir Road Development at the former 155 Reservoir Road  
 
The commission spoke with the residents of the development. Issues reviewed were the original restriction and the reason for it, 
the need for as-built plans and a review of potential deviations from the plans and what it could mean to the owners with respect 
to river front resources and what could be necessary to be restored. The Commission also reviewed the process for the third 
party review that will be undertaken.  Some of the residents expressed concern over the use of wood chips on the site and asked  
if it could be removed and grass planted. The commission advised against it at this time but will reconsider depending on the  
results of the third party survey. The Commission promised a follow-up meeting at a future date.  
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
164 Page Street- Notice of Non compliance-  
188 Burrage Street- Enforcement Order 
Shady Point- Upcoming RDA – MM noted that there would be an appearance at the next meeting. 
 New Business –  Trails subcommittee formation The commission considered this issue and agreed that the forming an 
ad-hoc committee would be helpful. It was decided that RB and MM would write a proposal for the town. This was 
approved by a motion of KJ and a second by BP and a unanimous vote.  
 Old Business –Robbs Hill management update- Gary Gouldrup is finishing the marking of the lot for commission 
review. 
            Land Exchange on Gilchrest – any applicable updates- RB will finish a letter of support to the ZBA 
Certificates of Compliance –UNITIL , Electric Ave DEP 208-1085 CONTINUED 
Extension Permit – None to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – 6/2 for approval. ( the revised minutes approved for 5/16 will be 
handed out hard copy)               The minutes of 6/2 were approved with amendments by a motion of BP and a second 
by KJ with a unanimous vote 
Committee Reports – storm water 319 grant information or updates 
Treasurer’s Report :  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests –  
 183 Hemlock, Update – mm noted still progressing 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available – new owner has reviewed Order of Conditions and Adam Costa 
is in communication 
 842R Chase Road – review of  preliminary assessment- It was noted by BP that the last communication 
indicated Town Counsel is continuing with closing and deed research documents.  
 155 Reservoir Road updates- update on re-plantings- no action- see above 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC - updates 
 Butterfly Lane 
===PAGE 3===
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is July 18 2018 7:00 PM at the 
Bilotta meeting room 17 Main Street Town Hall second floor.  Updates for a new date on the 
combined open space ad hoc committee will be stated at the conclusion of the June 20, 2018 meeting 
if available . 
 
The meeting adjourned at 9:35 Pm by a motion of KJ and a second by BP.  
 
All documents noted in minutes are on file at the conservation commission office.  
 