===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
                   MINUTES  
Billotta Meeting Room 
17 Main Street  
Lunenburg, Ma 01462 
Sept 19 2018 at 7:00 PM 
 
 
 
Call to Order Chairman Bursch called meeting to order. All present except BP and CC  
Announcements       JR announced that at the Stillman fair the storm water booth had 4 individuals sing the talent bank 
form for conservation.                                                                                       
Public Comment Neil Gorman from David Ross and Associates presented the commission with 2 lots owned by John 
and David Saliba. The configurations had 2 options that would be presented to the ZBA. After examining them, MM 
recommended the commission support option 2 ( One common driveway for all lots ) The Commission requested a 
more formal letter and they will add to the agenda to ratify a letter of support.  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointment: Robbs Hill Conservation Area– Gary Gouldrup proposed management plan.- Gary Gouldrup was in 
attendance. He commenced the appointment by speaking to the commission and re -capping the project at the small 
town forest. He then outlined  the forest stewardship program and the process the commission pursued in order to 
obtain approvals for the harvest at small town forest (STF). RB  asked him what was the main target of the STF harvest. 
GG replied that a small percentage thinning of declining, sick or disease infested trees. At the request of RB, GG 
outlined his education and experience in the field of forestry. CL disclosed he owns land abutting the Robbs Hill 
conservation area. In speaking to the cutting plan, GG noted that the majority of the high value timber was remaining on 
suite and that the proposed plan removed declining and diseased trees.  
 
Rick and Linda Hillson highlighted proposed skidder trails on a map. GG was asked how trees were going to be cut in 
the interior of the parcel. GG outlined the process of using a feller buncher on site.  GG strongly recommended the 
walking of the small town forest so he can show the details of skid trails and the interior portion of the cut.  In response 
to Linda Hillson’s question on the skid trails it was clarified by GG that the trees would be dragged out bu the skidder 
eliminating the need for turnarounds, thereby reducing the amount of skidder trail. The issue of the 20to 40% of tree 
harvesting was in reference to a controlled basal volume and not necessarily the number of trees relative to the total.  
GG outlined the goal of overall species diversity on a long term basis and not actively managing the area it becomes 
susceptible to disease, weather concerns and the establishment of a monoculture. Rick Hillson stated he did not like 
the terms harvest or farm. It was also questioned if the only motivation for the activity was for profit only, The 
Commission clarified goals for the forest health made over a long term period. RB stated that the trails used in the 
small town forest management plan were not called in as part of the equation for Robb’s Hill. Lisa Lento of 782 Flatt Hill 
Road expressed her feelings that the area should not be touched and forest lands should be left to manage themselves. 
She enquired if this was the only area to be touched. GG noted the southern parcel due to the sensitivity of the area, 
===PAGE 2===
would not be touched. Bruce Man of 463 Burrage Ave expressed feelings that the trails would be devastated and 
wanted to know if the area would be cleaned up. Donna Lambert of 520 Burrage stated she agrees with Dr. Man’s 
statements. Gg outlined the process of an actual harvest, areas cleaned and some spotty debirs le ft for habitat value. 
Paula Bertram of 321 Townsend Harbor Why Robbs Hill was chosen after the small town forest. RB noted it was chosen 
due to age and poor condition  of forest area due to weather impacts. He noted the area would only be shut done for 
one month. Bid packages would also include accessibility trails. Charles Venezia of 1402 Mass Ave. asked how repairs 
would be made. The commission responded that some areas would be left to be open meadow and that the harvest 
would be done towards the goal of wildlife habitat enhancement. Carolyn Lussier of Valley Road expressed an opinion 
of economic concerns. George Martin of 522 Burrage Ave spoke of ATV’s not allowed on conservation land and felt that 
allowing the harvest activity amounted to usage discrimination. The Commission noted it would address that with town 
counsel. MM asked GG what would happen within the next 30 to 50 years if the town did nothing. GG respinded the 
forest would decline.  
 
After some further discussion on the same outlined issues, the commission continued this item and arrived at no 
decisions regarding the disposition of this matter and would continue to consider it.  
 
Appointment: request for a minor change Perrins Pond 208-0936 56 Cross Street, Brockelman/SOLitude Lake Mngmt.- 
Continued until the October 3, 2018 meeting. – The Commission continued this matter until the applicant or 
representative could explain the request. 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BUY MIKE NAULT AND A PLAND BY 
ROSE LAND SURVEY DATED 9/18/18 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Mike Nault of MJN Realty Trust  for the construction of a single family home wi thin 
the buffer zone at 141 Hemlock Road.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on September 19  2018 The 
public is invited to attend 
 
Mike Nault appeared before the commission. The Commission had questions concerning details of the walkout. RB examined 
the details of the stone steps and the function of the newly designed trench and if it could be moved. Jr moved to continued until 
the October 3, 2018 meeting for th purposes on answering the questions. KJ seconded and the commission approved the 
motion. 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT FORM 3 AND SUPPORTING 
DOCUMENTATION. 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan 
at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on September 
19  2018 The public is invited to attend 
 
The applicant requested a continuance in order to speak to the department of Fish and Game. KJ moved t o continue to October 
3, KJ seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
Documents presented for consideration was a notice of intent by Mitchel Bixby and plans entitled” Sewage Disposal 
System” by David Ross and Associates. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Mitchel Bixby for the Upgrade of a septic system in the 100 foot buffer zone at 217 Reservoir 
Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on September 19th  2018 at 7:00 PM The public is invited to 
attend. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Neil Gorman explained the proposal for the replacement of a failed septic system. He noted to the commission that the plan wa s 
approved by the Board of Health. RB inquired as to the any soils stockpiling and the riverfront. Mr. Gorman explained that th e 
plans were designed to avoid those impact’s within any applicable zones.   MM recommended a standard order of conditions. JR 
moved to issue a standard Order. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
44 Pine Acres Road was withdrawn 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Amanda Pratt for the placement of a new lawn and an irrigation system at 44 Pine 
Acres Rd. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -
582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on September 19  2018 The public is invited to attend 
 
200 NEW WEST TOWSEND CONTINUED FOR NEED FOR FURTHER DOCUMENTATION.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Yolanda Quick for the removal of stumps, the clearing of invasive vegetation and the 
establishment of a lawn and plantings at 200 New West Townsend Road. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Billotta Meeting room 17 Main Street 2 nd floor on 
September 19th  2018 at 7:00 PM The public is invited to attend. 
 
RB, CL and MM noted a site walk on the property and the need for further documentat ion. CL moved to continue until such time 
as further information was given. TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO 255 Sunset Lane-Completed and to be removed from agenda 
188 Burrage Street- Enforcement Order- MM reported cleanup almost done. 
EO Battle 168 West Street – will be at the next meeting for an RDA 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road- Should have plans for the October 3 meeting 
55 Spring Street- MM reviewing aerials. 
New Business – 
Old Business – 
            Land Exchange on Gilchrest –updates ( if any) none 
Certificates of Compliance – UNITIL-continued to next meeting 
Extension Permit – Lake Shirley Order of Conditions- Joanna Bilotta was present. CL presented concerns about a lack of 
compliance for documentation with the existing order.. The Commission continued until the next meeting. KJ moved to continue.  
JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – August 15, 2018, Sept 5, 2018 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests –  
 183 Hemlock, Update – still progressing 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available –enforcement  order issued 
 842R Chase Road – if any - none 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update 
 155 Reservoir Road –MM sent a letter that survey was due by the 10/3 meeting or fines would commence at 
100 dollars per day 
 Butterfly Lane 
 Shady Point – none yet 
 Misc. updates 
 
===PAGE 4===
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is October 3  2018 7:00 PM at 
the Ritter memorial Building at 960 Mass Ave.   
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 11:00 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by JR with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
ALL DOCUMENTS CITE ARE RETAINED IN THE CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE. THIS MEETING WAS VIDEO 
RECORDED. 